{"id": "3153130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3153130", "title": "AWB Limited", "text": "AWB Limited\n\nAWB Limited was a major grain marketing organisation based in Australia. It was a government body known as the Australian Wheat Board until 1 July 1999, when the AWB was transformed into a private company, owned by wheat growers. In 2010, AWB was acquired by the Canadian firm Agrium, and in 2011 the company changed its name to Agrium Asia Pacific Limited. In 2011, Cargill Australia acquired the AWB Commodity Management business from Agrium. This follows the ACCC's decision on March 17, 2011 not to oppose the acquisition.\n\nThe AWB was founded in the late 1930s, to regulate the wheat market after the excesses of the Great Depression. The \"single desk\" dates to this period. This type of arrangement was not unique to Australia, as the Canadian Wheat Board was created in 1935 in a similar fashion (but its history dates back to an earlier wheat marketing board created during the Great War, and also includes the experience of cooperative wheat pools during the 1920s).\n\nFor much of its early history, it was a government-run and owned company. However, from July 1999, its board was restructured into a private company. It offered \"class A\" shares to those who meet its definition of \"growers\" and who had the ability to elect the majority of its board and chairperson, and from August 2001, 'class B' were publicly traded on the Australian Stock Exchange. In 2008, constitutional amendments were passed. Despite resistance from several wheat lobbies and industry groups, it consolidated ownership of AWB into one type of share, giving growers no special consideration. This change was proposed by the AWB management as necessarily to having a simpler, lower-risk business model.\n\nSince privatisation, AWB has grown to incorporate a number of subsidiaries to diversify its income away from its wheat exports. Its subsidiary businesses include GrainFlow to manage collection of grain from farmers to ports, companies to ship the grain overseas to customers, and Landmark rural services.\n\nBy its own estimation, AWB is now a \"grower owned and controlled company\".\n\nAWB Limited was a holding company owning a number of subsidiaries. Its shares were freely traded on the Australian Stock Exchange.\n\nAWB Limited had a number of subsidiaries. Some of these subsidiaries existed due to legislative requirements relating to the operation of the single desk; others exist for the purpose of controlling credit risk. As of early 2006, they were:\n\nAWB announced a new strategy in 2009 to simplify and de-risk the business. This resulted in the divestment of the financial services loan book to ANZ in December 2009.\n\nIn March 2010, AWB announced the signing of a memorandum of understanding to sell the Geneva business and to joint venture the local grain trading business.\n\nPreviously a low profile organisation, the AWB made headlines in late 2005 when it was alleged that it had knowingly paid kickbacks to the Iraq Government, in violation of United Nations sanctions and Australian law. Following the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in 1990, the United Nations had imposed a financial and trade embargo on Iraq. However, after facing criticism over the humanitarian impacts of the sanctions, the UN from 1995 until late 2003 allowed Iraq to trade oil on the world market in exchange for food, medicine and other humanitarian needs.\n\nDespite this, at the insistence of the Iraq government of dictator Saddam Hussein, the AWB agreed to pay \"transportation fees\" of around $A$290 million. This money was paid to a Jordanian transportation company, Alia. Alia kept a small percentage of the fees, and paid the remainder onto Saddam's government. This breached the sanctions placed on the Iraqi regime.\n\nThe government-sanctioned Cole Inquiry into the company's role in the scandal has been completed and was tabled by Attorney-General Philip Ruddock on 27 November 2006. The report found that, from mid-1999, AWB had knowingly entered into an arrangement that involved paying kickbacks to the Iraqi government, in order to retain its business. The Inquiry recommended that 12 people be investigated for possible criminal and corporations offences over the scandal.\n\nAt the height of the investigation, the single-desk arrangement from which AWB benefits came under criticism. In 2006, the Australian Grain Exporters Association asked the Government to remove AWB's monopoly export powers. The oil-for-wheat scandal cast doubt among some grain exporters over the trust placed in the company, especially as they lost the ability to export to Iraq during the length of the Cole Inquiry, losing one of their biggest markets.\n\nThe scandal resulted in international condemnation and litigation. On 11 July 2006, North American farmers claimed $1 billion in damages from AWB at Washington DC, alleging the Australian wheat exporter used bribery and other corrupt activities to corner grain markets. The growers claimed that AWB used the same techniques to secure grain sales in other markets in Asia and other countries in the Middle East. The lawsuit was dismissed in March 2007.\n\nIn August 2009, the Australian Federal Police dropped their investigation into any criminal actions undertaken by AWB and others in this matter. This decision came after Paul Hastings QC declared the prospect of convictions was limited and \"not in the public interest\". The Australian Securities and Investments Commission then proceeded with several civil cases against six former directors and officers of AWB. Two have been against Andrew Lindberg, AWB's former head. Both are still in progress. Another civil case was brought by shareholders of AWB, and was settled out of court for $39.5 million in February 2010.\n\nAustralia's government has distanced itself from the payments to Saddam Hussein's regime, given Australia's contribution to military action against Hussein in the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Andrew Lindberg resigned as managing director on 9 February 2006 and from the board of directors on 22 February 2006 under intense public and media pressure.\n\nIn the years immediately following the Cole Inquiry, AWB continued to be dogged by bad performance. The company remains liable in several civil cases being completed, and has not always been successful in its attempts to find new markets.\n\nFollowing the publication of the Cole Inquiry, a new management team was installed under the leadership of Gordon Davis who was recruited from Orica in August 2006. Davis successfully reformed the constitution and the shareholder structure to consolidate into 1 class of shareholder.\n\nThis new management team has not been entirely without controversy. On 26 April 2007, Yahoo News reported that AWB also breached US sanctions on Iran. These sanctions prohibit American citizens and companies using American currency from trading with Iran. In 2006, AWB’s US subsidiary (which trades using American currency) attempted to pay an Iranian transport company approximately $1 million, in clear breach of the US sanctions.\n\nIn 2009, the company faced difficulties in another new market, when it was forced to recapitalise the balance sheet after the company produced significant losses from the expansion of trading activities into Brazil under Davis.\n\nDespite making a small profit in 2009, in March 2010, the company announced a profit downgrade from domestic trading activities. In May 2010, it reported a half-year loss of $64.8 million, which it claimed due to the cost of settling the shareholder class action for $39.5m, and a loss of $65.4m on restructuring costs associated with its sale of the Landmark Financial Services loan and deposit books.\n\nIn 2010, AWB accepted a takeover bid from Agrium at A$1.50 a share, or $1.2 billion in total, which was later approved by Australia's Foreign Investment Review Board.\n\nIn 2011, Cargill Australia acquired the AWB Commodity Management business from Agrium. This follows the ACCC's decision on March 17, 2011 not to oppose the acquisition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7469746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7469746", "title": "Aburizal Bakrie", "text": "Aburizal Bakrie\n\nAburizal Bakrie (born 15 November 1946) is an Indonesian politician, and widely recognised as one of the most successful \"pribumi\" (native Indonesian) businessmen in Indonesia. From 2004 until 2005 Bakrie served as Indonesia's Coordinating Minister for Economy. From 2005 until 2009 he served as Coordinating Minister for People's Welfare. Since 2009, Bakrie served as the Chairman of the Golkar Party up to late 2014, and resumed chairmanship in May 2015.\n\nBakrie attended the Bandung Institute of Technology where he obtained a degree in electrical engineering in 1973.\n\nIn 1972 Bakrie joined PT Bakrie & Brothers Tbk known today as the Bakrie Group, the conglomerate founded by his late father , which prospered much like the rest of the Indonesian economy during the Soeharto presidency. The Bakrie Group conducts business in agriculture, real estate, trade, shipping, banking, insurance, media, manufacturing, construction, and mining. Aburizal Bakrie, the eldest of four siblings was the chairman of the family enterprise from 1999 to 2004. In 1998 the Asian economic crisis challenged Bakrie's control of the conglomerate, from which he emerged victorious after a successful refinancing process in 2000.\n\nFrom 1991 to 1995 Bakrie served two consecutive terms as the President of the ASEAN Business Forum and two consecutive terms from 1994 to 2004 as the President of the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (aka ). As a member of the Golkar party Bakrie was running to become Golkar's candidate for the presidency in 2004.\n\nIn 2004 Bakrie retired from before being named Coordinating Minister for Economy. The appointment by President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono was initially viewed with some reservation. Shortly after being named to the cabinet of Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, Bakrie set in motion a new government policy calling for a 3% reduction of Indonesians living in poverty, by reducing fuel subsidies in exchange for financial support to approximately 6 million people. Bakrie argued the government's need to gradually increase fuel prices to keep fuel subsidies from busting its budget, while bringing the cost of fuel closer to international levels. By October 2005 and after two price hikes, the cost of fuel increased by 126%. Standard & Poor's rated the hike as an encouraging move to relieve immediate pressure on the country's fiscal position and external balance.\n\nIn a move to stem Indonesia's declining output of crude oil, Bakrie weighed in to end a standoff between ExxonMobil Corporation and . The companies had been at odds for many years, following their dispute over operational and profit sharing issues in the oil fields project, the OPEC member's biggest oil discovery on Java in decades. The previous year Bakrie pledged that the new government wanted to resolve the Cepu and other disputes involving international companies, in a show of its commitment to improving Indonesia's investment climate.\n\nAfter a reshuffling of the cabinet in 2005, Bakrie was appointed Coordinating Minister for People's Welfare. In May 2008 Bakrie announced the handout of $1.52 billion to nearly 19 million low income households as part of a direct cash relief program aimed to cushion the blow of the fuel increase.\n\nIn 2009 Bakrie was elected as the Chairman of Golkar party at Golkar Party Congress in Pekanbaru, Riau, Indonesia after defeating Surya Paloh, Yuddy Chrisnandi and Hutomo Mandala Putra. In May 2010, he successfully formed and was elected the leader of a majority parliamentary coalition with President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono's party.\n\nBakrie's name has been mentioned in reference with the Sidoarjo mud flow that erupted on 29 May 2006 in Sidoarjo, a regency of Eastern Java, causing significant devastation to the environment and loss of life. Scientists are divided over the cause that triggered the mud flow. One side is claiming it was a natural occurrence caused by a 6.3-magnitude earthquake that occurred two days earlier near Yogyakarta, while the other side and government confirmed the drilling practices of the PT Lapindo Brantas, a company in which Bakrie's family was a controlling shareholder, triggered the mudflow. The media coverage as a result remains mixed.\n\nAlthough environmental groups urged Indonesia's government to revoke the drilling license of PT Lapindo Brantas for environmental mismanagement, a three-year police investigation into the incident ended with the case being dropped. According to the \"Jakarta Globe\", Effendi Simbolon, a legislator from the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle PDI-P and deputy chairman of House of Representatives Commission VII, which oversees mines and energy affairs, said that \"the criticism of Bakrie, whose family controls the company that is widely blamed for the disaster, was unwarranted, politicized and based largely on jealousy.\"\n\nA 2013 report indicated that for nearly seven years the mudflow had been wreaking havoc in the livelihoods of Porong residents in particular and on the Sidoarjo economy as a whole. The mudflow had also buried more than 600 hectares of land, displacing 39,700 people and submerging three subdistricts, 12 villages, 11,241 buildings and 362 hectares of rice fields.\n\nIn the fall of 2010 media coverage started to indicate that Bakrie was seeking to become the Golkar Party's presidential candidate in Indonesia's 2014 Presidential election. Since then, Bakrie repeatedly expressed his desire to be nominated as Golkar's presidential candidate. Media reports also suggested the Golkar Party had already commenced its search for a running mate to team up with Bakrie, introducing names like Sri Sultan Hamengkubuwana X the current Governor of Yogyakarta, the Secretary General of the Indonesian Democratic Party and Deputy House Speaker, Dahlan Iskan the State Enterprises Minister, as well as the youngest son of Indonesia's current President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.\n\nBakrie's early nomination was met with significant criticism as some party members favoured a caucus to first determine the mechanisms for naming the party's candidate. The head of the Golkar Party advisory board, Akbar Tanjung, criticised the decision earlier in October 2011, when the party congress chose Bakrie as the preferred candidate without allowing other people to be nominated. Tanjung called the process \"undemocratic and said it denied other members the right to pursue the nomination\". This criticism was echoed by \"other members, including some at the regional level\". Bakrie responded to the criticism by saying that they were \"political attacks\" and was described by \"The Jakarta Post\" as \"shrugging off\" the criticism. Others however pointed out the need to settle on their presidential candidate well ahead of the 2014 election, citing Indonesia's sheer geographic footprint with sprawling provinces and a population expected to reach 248 million this year.\n\nOn 29 June 2012 at Golkar's National Leadership meeting in Bogor, Bakrie was declared the Golkar Party's 2014 Presidential candidate. In his acceptance speech Bakrie said \"Pleading for guidance from God almighty, the faith to build a more developed Indonesia, a strong will and support from all of you, with humility I officially and openly accept this nomination.\" In an attempt to end speculation about a possible running mate for Bakrie Golkar's Deputy chairman Agung Laksono ruled out the selection of a vice-presidential candidate until 2013.\n\nRecent opinion polls show Bakrie trailing behind other presidential hopefuls including former general Prabowo Subianto (Chief Patron of the Great Indonesia Movement Party) and former President Megawati Sukarnoputri, daughter of Indonesia's first President Sukarno.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40487121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40487121", "title": "Ade Bajomo", "text": "Ade Bajomo\n\nAde Bajomo is the Executive Director for Information Technology and Operations at Access Bank Plc. Bajomo has a wealth of experience and track record of delivery in the global financial services sector spanning banking, capital markets, asset management and insurance. He has led major transformation and service enhancement programmes, driven business growth initiatives, mergers, acquisitions and integration of acquired entities within sector. \n\nPrior to joining Access Bank, Bajomo worked at The Nigerian Stock Exchange, leading the digitisation of its services and establishing a robust trading platform and ancillary ecosystem to drive market liquidity, automation, enhanced regulation, new product development, market data and revenue diversification. He serves on the board of NASD Plc., a Nigerian-based OTC platform. He also chairs the Market-Wide Infrastructure and Technology sub-committee of the Nigerian Capital Market Committee. He worked at Barclays Bank PLC., leading the Replatforming Business Transformation Programmes for Africa and Indian Ocean region to achieve significant technology and business operations benefits in the region. He has over 25 years of professional experience\n\nAde Bajomo graduated with a B.Sc degree in Engineering from University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University. He holds an M.Sc degree with distinction in Information Systems from South Bank University, and an MBA from CASS Business School, City University London. \nHe is a chartered member of the British Computer Society and a Member of the Institute of Directors.\n\nMr. Ade Bajomo is currently the Executive Director for Information Technology and Operations at Access Bank Plc. He was the Executive Director of The Nigerian Stock Exchange for Market Operations and Technology, leading the operations and technology transformation of the leading Sub-Saharan African exchange as it repositioned it for growth and global leadership through effective exploitation of technology and efficient business and market operations processes.\n\nWith a wealth of experience and track record in the global financial services sector spanning banking, capital markets, asset management and insurance, Mr. Bajomo has led major transformation and service improvement programmes and participated in business growth initiatives technology and operations integration of acquired entities in the sector.\n\nAde joined Morgan Grenfell Asset Management in 1995 as the Computing Manager responsible for the delivery of daily technology operations for the leading asset management firm, which was later acquired by Deutsche Bank. During the acquisition, he led the technical infrastructure team responsible for the design and implementation of the Wintel technologies for the new trading floor of the new Headquarters at London Wall in the City of London, as well as the technology consolidation and integration of both entities, working in a team of technical architects.\nHe moved to General Bank in 1997 as Head of Information Technology, driving the integration of eleven (11) entities acquired by Fortis Bank in the UK. He rose to the position of Information Technology Director at Fortis Bank UK in 2000.\n\nAt Fortis Bank, he was responsible to the technology delivery and operations of eleven (11) business lines, including Derivatives Clearing technology and Prime Brokerage Services in over 28 global exchanges and was part of the team that delivered one of the first screen based trading services following the closure of the London Stock Exchange trading floor. Working closely with the business lines, the technology team at Fortis contributed to the delivery of one of the lowest cost-income ratio (< 40%) achieved by an international bank operating in the UK at a time of rapid expansion, significant investment and business growth.\n\nHe joined Pearl Insurance (now Phoenix Group Holdings) in 2006 to drive the technology consolidation and business process optimisation of what was the largest closed life pension outsourcing deal at the time to Tata Consulting Services as Head of Information Technology and Strategy.\n\nBajomo left for Barclays Bank Plc in 2007 to lead the business transformation programmes for the Africa and Indian Ocean region achieving the delivery of the technology consolidation, operational efficiencies and business growth and transformation plans for these entities with a globally focused team based in the UK, India, Singapore and across Africa.\n\nHe joined the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 2011 and with the wider team has achieved a number of transformative objectives for the Nigerian Capital Market, including the implementation of targeted 21st Century Technology Strategies, income diversification, improvements in market structure, and enhanced efficiency of operations and regulatory services.\n\nAt the Exchange, he led the digital transformation efforts of the market with the XGEN platform offering low latency trading on a highly scalable platform based on NASDAQ technology and using mobile technology to connect the Nigerian market to millions of investors whilst facilitating financial inclusion. The changes in market structure includes market making and securities lending. He commenced the income diversification strategy of the NSE in 2012 with the launch of XNET services, and insourced the Market Data business, transforming it into a profit making venture which now contributes 9% of revenue to the Exchange.\n\nIn recent times Bajomo has been instrumental in diversifying the income streams of the Exchange, and in 2016, he led the first NSE Market Data Expo, first of its kind in West Africa, to increase awareness on the critical role of market data in making sound investment decisions on both the buy and sell sides.\n\nHe speaks at various conferences and is a thought leader and avid proponent of growing the Nigerian capital market through enhanced efficiency, appropriate product and value proposition for all segments of the market, and in particular, the mass retail end, and the provision of wider market access to broaden both domestic and global participation and facilitate financial inclusion. He spoke at the 2015 and 2016 Building African Financial Market (BAFM) hosted by the JSE and NSE.\n\nElectronic Banking for SMEs: a case study of Fortis Bank UK\n\nStock Exchanges: The Ultimate Voting Machines\n\nIntegrating West African Capital Markets: Financial Information Exchange (FIX) EMEA Conference 2015\n\nEmerging from the Frontier: The Nigerian Capital Market\n\n"}
{"id": "21380567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21380567", "title": "Alfred Mosselman", "text": "Alfred Mosselman\n\nAlfred Mosselman or Alfred Mosselmann (1810-1867) was a Belgian aristocrat and industrialist who made a fortune in canal- and road-building. He was also a patron of the arts, particularly of his long-time lover Apollonie Sabatier.\n"}
{"id": "11535665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11535665", "title": "Ali Shakeri", "text": "Ali Shakeri\n\nAli Shakeri () is an Iranian-American businessman and activist. He graduated from the University of Texas with a business administration degree. He serves on the Community Advisory Board of the Center for Citizen Peacebuilding at the University of California, Irvine. Shakeri was one of four dual-nationality Iranian-Americans detained by the Iranian government in May 2007.\n\nShakeri has also been a founding and active member of Ettehade Jomhourikhahan-e Iran (EJI), which advocates a democratic and secular republic in Iran.\n\nIn 2007 Shakeri went to Iran to visit his mother, who was ill and died during his visit. On May 8, 2007 while in Iran he was detained by the Iranian government, one of four Americans detained by the Iranian government in a short period. The others were Kian Tajbakhsh, Haleh Esfandiari and Parnaz Azima. On June 8, 2007, the Iranian Student News Agency confirmed the detention. He was released on September 25, 2007. and the other three were also released \"in phases, from prison or allowed to leave the country ... in the run-up to President Ahmadinejad's\" September 2007 speech before the United Nations. \nShakeri called the American Iranian Council on October 2 to thank the AIC, and its members for diplomatic actions taken to gain his release from prison in Iran. \n\n"}
{"id": "40628134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40628134", "title": "Anti-globalization movement", "text": "Anti-globalization movement\n\nThe anti-globalization movement, or counter-globalisation movement, is a social movement critical of economic globalization. The movement is also commonly referred to as the global justice movement, alter-globalization movement, anti-globalist movement, anti-corporate globalization movement, or movement against neoliberal globalization.\n\nParticipants base their criticisms on a number of related ideas. What is shared is that participants oppose large, multinational corporations having unregulated political power, exercised through trade agreements and deregulated financial markets. Specifically, corporations are accused of seeking to maximize profit at the expense of work safety conditions and standards, labour hiring and compensation standards, environmental conservation principles, and the integrity of national legislative authority, independence and sovereignty. , some commentators have characterized changes in the global economy as \"turbo-capitalism\" (Edward Luttwak), \"market fundamentalism\" (George Soros), \"casino capitalism\" (Susan Strange), and as \"McWorld\" (Benjamin Barber).\n\nMany anti-globalization activists do not oppose globalization in general and call for forms of global integration that better provide democratic representation, advancement of human rights, fair trade and sustainable development and therefore feel the term \"anti-globalization\" is misleading.\n\nSupporters believe that by the late 20th century those they characterized as \"ruling elites\" sought to harness the expansion of world markets for their own interests; this combination of the Bretton Woods institutions, states, and multinational corporations has been called \"globalization\" or \"globalization from above.\" In reaction, various social movements emerged to challenge their influence; these movements have been called \"anti-globalization\" or \"globalization from below.\"\n\nPeople opposing globalization believe that international agreements and global financial institutions, such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Trade Organization, undermine local decision-making. Corporations that use these institutions to support their own corporate and financial interests, can exercise privileges that individuals and small businesses cannot, including the ability to:\nThe movement aims for an end to the legal status of \"corporate personhood\" and the dissolution of free market fundamentalism and the radical economic privatization measures of the World Bank, the IMF, and the World Trade Organization.\nActivists are especially opposed to the various abuses which they think are perpetuated by globalization and the international institutions that, they say, promote neoliberalism without regard to ethical standards or environmental protection. Common targets include the World Bank (WB), International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the World Trade Organization (WTO) and free trade treaties like the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA), the Trans Pacific Trade Agreement (TPPA), the Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI) and the General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS). In light of the economic gap between rich and poor countries, adherents of the movement claim that free trade without measures to protect the environment and the health and wellbeing of workers will merely increase the power of industrialized nations (often termed the \"North\" in opposition to the developing world's \"South\"). Proponents of this line of thought refer to the process as polarization and argue that current neo-liberal economic policies have given wealthier states an advantage over developing nations, enabling their exploitation and leading to a widening of the global wealth gap.\n\nA report by Jean Ziegler, UN Special Rapporteur on the right to food, notes that \"millions of farmers are losing their livelihoods in the developing countries, but small farmers in the northern countries are also suffering\" and concludes that \"the current inequities of the global trading system are being perpetuated rather than resolved under the WTO, given the unequal balance of power between member countries.\" Activists point to the unequal footing and power between developed and developing nations within the WTO and with respect to global trade, most specifically in relation to the protectionist policies towards agriculture enacted in many developed countries. These activists also point out that heavy subsidization of developed nations' agriculture and the aggressive use of export subsidies by some developed nations to make their agricultural products more attractive on the international market are major causes of declines in the agricultural sectors of many developing nations.\nThrough the Internet, a movement began to develop in opposition to the doctrines of neoliberalism which were widely manifested in the 1990s when the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) proposed liberalization of cross-border investment and trade restrictions through its Multilateral Agreement on Investment (MAI). This treaty was prematurely exposed to public scrutiny and subsequently abandoned in November 1998 in the face of strenuous protest and criticism by national and international civil society representatives.\n\nNeoliberal doctrine argued that untrammeled free trade and reduction of public-sector regulation would bring benefits to poor countries and to disadvantaged people in rich countries. Anti-globalization advocates urge that preservation of the natural environment, human rights (especially workplace rights and conditions) and democratic institutions are likely to be placed at undue risk by globalization unless mandatory standards are attached to liberalization. Noam Chomsky stated in 2002 that\n\nBy 2002, many parts of the movement showed wide opposition to the impending invasion of Iraq. Many participants were among those 11 million or more protesters that on the weekend of February 15, 2003, participated in global protests against the imminent Iraq war. Other anti-war demonstrations were organized by the antiglobalization movement: see for example the large demonstration, organized against the impending war in Iraq, which closed the first European Social Forum in November 2002 in Florence, Italy.\n\nAnti-globalization militants worried for a proper functioning of democratic institutions as the leaders of many democratic countries (Spain, Italy, Poland and the United Kingdom) were acting against the wishes of the majorities of their populations in supporting the war. Chomsky asserted that these leaders \"showed their contempt for democracy\". Critics of this type of argument have tended to point out that this is just a standard criticism of representative democracy — a democratically elected government will not always act in the direction of greatest current public support — and that, therefore, there is no inconsistency in the leaders' positions given that these countries are parliamentary democracies.\n\nThe economic and military issues are closely linked in the eyes of many within the movement.\n\nMany participants (see Noam Chomsky's quotes above) consider the term \"anti-globalization\" to be a misnomer. The term suggests that its followers support protectionism and/or nationalism, which is not always the case - in fact, some supporters of anti-globalization are strong opponents of both nationalism and protectionism: for example, the No Border network argues for unrestricted migration and the abolition of all national border controls. S. A. Hamed Hosseini (an Australian sociologist and expert in global social movement studies), argues that the term anti-globalization can be ideal-typically used only to refer to only one ideological vision he detects alongside three other visions (the anti-globalist, the alter-globalist and the alter-globalization). He argues that the three latter ideal-typical visions can be categorized under the title of global justice movement. According to him, while the first two visions (the alter-globalism and the anti-globalism) represent the reconstructed forms of old and new left ideologies, respectively, in the context of current globalization, only the third one has shown the capacity to respond more effectively to the intellectual requirements of today's global complexities. Underlying this vision is a new conception of justice, coined accommodative justice by Hosseini, a new approach towards cosmopolitanism (transversal cosmopolitanism), a new mode of activist knowledge (accommodative consciousness), and a new format of solidarity, interactive solidarity.\n\nSome activists, notably David Graeber, see the movement as opposed instead to neoliberalism or \"corporate globalization\". He argues that the term \"anti-globalization\" is a term coined by the media, and that radical activists are actually more in favor of globalization, in the sense of \"effacement of borders and the free movement of people, possessions and ideas\" than are the IMF or WTO. He also notes that activists use the terms \"globalization movement\" and \"anti-globalization movement\" interchangeably, indicating the confusion of the terminology. The term \"alter-globalization\" has been used to make this distinction clear.\n\nWhile the term \"anti-globalization\" arose from the movement's opposition to free-trade agreements (which have often been considered part of something called \"globalization\"), various participants contend they are opposed to only certain aspects of globalization and instead describe themselves, at least in French-speaking organizations, as \"anti-capitalist\", \"anti-plutocracy,\" or \"anti-corporate.\" \"Le Monde Diplomatique\" 's editor, Ignacio Ramonet's, expression of \"the one-way thought\" (\"pensée unique\") became slang against neoliberal policies and the Washington consensus.\n\nThe term \"anti-globalization\" does not distinguish the international leftist anti-globalization position from a strictly nationalist anti-globalization position. Many nationalist movements, such as the French National Front, Austrian Freedom Party, the Italian Lega Nord, the Greek Golden Dawn or the National Democratic Party of Germany are opposed to globalization, but argue that the alternative to globalization is the protection of the nation-state. Other groups, influenced by the Third Position, are also classifiable as anti-globalization. However, their overall world view is rejected by groups such as Peoples Global Action and anti-fascist groups such as ANTIFA. In response, the nationalist movements against globalization, argue that the leftist anti-globalization position is actually a support to alter-globalization.\n\nSeveral influential critical works have inspired the anti-globalization movement. \"No Logo\", the book by the Canadian journalist Naomi Klein who criticized the production practices of multinational corporations and the omnipresence of brand-driven marketing in popular culture, has become \"manifesto\" of the movement, presenting in a simple way themes more accurately developed in other works. In India some intellectual references of the movement can be found in the works of Vandana Shiva, an ecologist and feminist, who in her book \"Biopiracy\" documents the way that the natural capital of indigenous peoples and ecoregions is converted into forms of intellectual capital, which are then recognized as exclusive commercial property without sharing the private utility thus derived. The writer Arundhati Roy is famous for her anti-nuclear position and her activism against India's massive hydroelectric dam project, sponsored by the World Bank. In France the well-known monthly paper \"Le Monde Diplomatique\" has advocated the antiglobalization cause and an editorial of its director Ignacio Ramonet brought about the foundation of the association ATTAC. Susan George of the Transnational Institute has also been a long-term influence on the movement, as the writer of books since 1986 on hunger, debt, international financial institutions and capitalism. The works of Jean Ziegler, Christopher Chase-Dunn, and Immanuel Wallerstein have detailed underdevelopment and dependence in a world ruled by the capitalist system. Pacifist and anti-imperialist traditions have strongly influenced the movement. Critics of United States foreign policy such as Noam Chomsky, Susan Sontag, and anti-globalist pranksters The Yes Men are widely accepted inside the movement.\n\nAlthough they may not recognize themselves as antiglobalists and are pro-capitalism, some economists who don't share the neoliberal approach of international economic institutions have strongly influenced the movement. Amartya Sen's \"Development as Freedom\" (Nobel Prize in Economics, 1999), argues that third world development must be understood as the expansion of human capability, not simply the increase in national income per capita, and thus requires policies attuned to health and education, not simply GDP. James Tobin's (winner of the Nobel Prize in Economics) proposal for a tax on financial transactions (called, after him, the Tobin tax) has become part of the agenda of the movement. Also, George Soros, Joseph E. Stiglitz (another Economic Sciences Nobel prize winner, formerly of the World Bank, author of Globalization and Its Discontents) and David Korten have made arguments for drastically improving transparency, for debt relief, land reform, and restructuring corporate accountability systems. Korten and Stiglitz's contribution to the movement include involvement in direct actions and street protest.\n\nIn some Roman Catholic countries such as Italy there have been religious influences, especially from missionaries who have spent a long time in the Third World (the most famous being Alex Zanotelli).\n\nInternet sources and free-information websites, such as Indymedia, are a means of diffusion of the movement's ideas. The vast array of material on spiritual movements, anarchism, libertarian socialism and the Green Movement that is now available on the Internet has been perhaps more influential than any printed book.\n\nAlthough over the past years more emphasis has been given to the construction of grassroots alternatives to (capitalist) globalization, the movement's largest and most visible mode of organizing remains mass decentralized campaigns of direct action and civil disobedience. This mode of organizing, sometimes under the banner of the Peoples' Global Action network, tries to tie the many disparate causes together into one global struggle.\n\nIn many ways the process of organizing matters overall can be more important to activists than the avowed goals or achievements of any component of the movement.\n\nAt corporate summits, the stated goal of most demonstrations is to stop the proceedings. Although the demonstrations rarely succeed in more than delaying or inconveniencing the actual summits, this motivates the mobilizations and gives them a visible, short-term purpose. This form of publicity is expensive in police time and the public purse. Rioting has occurred at some protests, for instance in Genoa, Seattle and London - and extensive damage was done to the area, especially targeting corporations, including McDonald's and Starbucks restaurants.\n\nDespite, or perhaps because of, the lack of formal coordinating bodies, the movement manages to successfully organize large protests on a global basis, using information technology to spread information and organize. Protesters organize themselves into \"affinity groups,\" typically non-hierarchical groups of people who live close together and share a common political goal. Affinity groups will then send representatives to planning meetings. However, because these groups can be infiltrated by law enforcement intelligence, important plans of the protests are often not made until the last minute. One common tactic of the protests is to split up based on willingness to break the law. This is designed, with varying success, to protect the risk-averse from the physical and legal dangers posed by confrontations with law enforcement. For example, in Prague during the anti-IMF and World Bank protests in September 2000 demonstrators split into three distinct groups, approaching the conference center from three directions: one engaging in various forms of civil disobedience (the Yellow march), one (the Pink/Silver march) advancing through \"tactical frivolity\" (costume, dance, theatre, music, and artwork), and one (the Blue march) engaging in violent conflicts with the baton-armed police, with the protesters throwing cobblestones lifted from the street.\n\nThese demonstrations come to resemble small societies in themselves. Many protesters take training in first aid and act as medics to other injured protesters. In the US, some organizations like the National Lawyer's Guild and, to a lesser extent, the American Civil Liberties Union, provide legal witnesses in case of law enforcement confrontation. Protesters often claim that major media outlets do not properly report on them; therefore, some of them created the Independent Media Center, a collective of protesters reporting on the actions as they happen.\n\n\nThe Annual Meetings osf the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank, that took place in West Berlin in 1988, saw strong protests that can be categorized as a precursor of the anti-globalization movement. One of the main and failed objectives (as it was to be so many times in the future) was to derail the meetings.\n\nA counter summit against G7 was organized in Paris in July 1989. The event was called \"ça suffit comme ça\" (\"that is enough\") and principally aimed at cancelling the debt contracted by southern countries. A demonstration gathered 10,000 people and an important concert was held in la Bastille square with 200 000 people. It was the first anti-G7 event, fourteen years before that of Washington. The main political consequence was that France took position to favor debt cancellation.\n\nThe 50th anniversary of the IMF and the World Bank, which was celebrated in Madrid in October 1994, was the scene of a protest by an ad-hoc coalition of what would later be called anti-globalization movements. Starting from the mid-1990s, Annual Meetings of the IMF and the World Bank Group have become center points for anti-globalization movement protests. They tried to drown the bankers' parties in noise from outside and held other public forms of protest under the motto \"50 Years is Enough\". While Spanish King Juan Carlos was addressing the participants in a huge exhibition hall, two Greenpeace activists climbed to the top and showered the attendants with fake dollar bills carrying the slogan \"No $s for Ozone Layer Destruction\". A number of the demonstrators were sent to the notorious Carabanchel prison.\n\nOne of the first international anti-globalization protests was organized in dozens of cities around the world on June 18, 1999, with those in London and Eugene, Oregon most often noted. The drive was called the Carnival Against Capital, or J18 for short. The day coincided with the 25th G8 Summit in Cologne, Germany. The protest in Eugene turned into a riot where local anarchists drove police out of a small park. One anarchist, Robert Thaxton, was arrested and convicted of throwing a rock at a police officer.\n\nThe second major mobilization of the movement, known as N30, occurred on November 30, 1999, when protesters blocked delegates' entrance to WTO meetings in Seattle, Washington, USA. The protests forced the cancellation of the opening ceremonies and lasted the length of the meeting until December 3. There was a large, permitted march by members of the AFL-CIO, and other unauthorized marches by assorted affinity groups who converged around the Convention Center. The protesters and Seattle riot police clashed in the streets after police fired tear gas at demonstrators who blocked the streets and refused to disperse. Over 600 protesters were arrested and thousands were injured. Three policemen were injured by friendly fire, and one by a thrown rock. Some protesters destroyed the windows of storefronts of businesses owned or franchised by targeted corporations such as a large Nike shop and many Starbucks windows. The mayor put the city under the municipal equivalent of martial law and declared a curfew. , the city of Seattle had paid over $200,000 in settlements of lawsuits filed against the Seattle Police Department for assault and wrongful arrest, with a class action lawsuit still pending.\n\nOn April 2000, around 10,000 to 15,000 protesters demonstrated at the IMF, and World Bank meeting (official numbers are not tallied). International Forum on Globalization (IFG) held training at Foundry United Methodist Church. Police raided the Convergence Center, which was the staging warehouse and activists' meeting hall on Florida Avenue on April 15. The day before the larger protest scheduled on April 16, a smaller group of protesters demonstration against the Prison-Industrial Complex in the District of Columbia. Mass arrests were conducted; 678 people were arrested on April 15. Three-time Pulitzer Prize winning, \"Washington Post\" photographer Carol Guzy was detained by police and arrested on April 15, and two journalists for the Associated Press also reported being struck by police with batons. On April 16 and 17 the demonstrations and street actions around the IMF that followed, the number of those arrested grew to 1,300 people. A class action lawsuit was filed for false arrest.<nowiki> In June 2010, the class action suit for the April 15th events called '</nowiki>\"Becker, et al. v. District of Columbia, et al\".' were settled, with $13.7 million damages awarded.\n\nIn September 2002, estimated number of 1,500 to 2,000 people gathered to demonstrate against the Annual Meetings of IMF and World Bank in the streets of Washington D.C. Protesting groups included the Anti-Capitalist Convergence, the Mobilization for Global Justice. 649 people were reported arrested, five were charged with destruction of property, while the others were charged with parading without a permit, or failing to obey police orders to disperse. At least 17 reporters were in the round-up. Protestors sued in Federal Court about the arrests. The D.C. Attorney General had outside counsel investigate apparent destruction of evidence, and forensic investigations continue, and the testimony of the Chief of Police. In 2009, the city agreed to pay $8.25 million to almost 400 protesters and bystanders to end a class-action lawsuit over kettling and mass arrests in Pershing Park during 2002 World Bank protests\n\nAlthough local police were surprised by the size of N30, law enforcement agencies have since reacted worldwide to prevent the disruption of future events by a variety of tactics, including sheer weight of numbers, infiltrating the groups to determine their plans, and preparations for the use of force to remove protesters.\n\nAt the site of some of the protests, police have used tear gas, pepper spray, concussion grenades, rubber and wooden bullets, night sticks, water cannons, dogs, and horses to repel the protesters. After the November 2000 G20 protest in Montreal, at which many protesters were beaten, trampled, and arrested in what was intended to be a festive protest, the tactic of dividing protests into \"green\" (permitted), \"yellow\" (not officially permitted but with little confrontation and low risk of arrest), and \"red\" (involving direct confrontation) zones was introduced.\n\nIn Quebec City, municipal officials built a 3-metre (10 ft) high wall around the portion of the city where the Summit of the Americas was being held, which only residents, delegates to the summit, and certain accredited journalists were allowed to pass through.\n\nOn June 15 and 16, 2001, a strong demonstration took place in Göteborg during the meeting of the European Council in the Swedish town. Clashes between police and protesters were exacerbated by the numerous vandalism of the extreme fringes of the demonstrators, the so-called black-blocs. Images of devastation bounced through the mass media, putting a negative shadow on the movement, and increasing a sense of fear through common people.\n\nThe Genoa Group of Eight Summit protest from July 18 to July 22, 2001 was one of the bloodiest protests in Western Europe's recent history, as evidenced by the wounding of hundreds of policemen and civilians forced to lock themselves inside of their homes and the death of a young Genoese anarchist named Carlo Giuliani—who was shot while trying to throw a fire extinguisher on a policeman—during two days of violence and rioting by groups supported by the nonchalance of more consistent and peaceful masses of protesters, and the hospitalization of several of those peaceful demonstrators just mentioned. Police have subsequently been accused of brutality, torture and interference with the non-violent protests as a collateral damage provoked by the clash between the law enforcement ranks themselves and the more violent and brutal fringes of protesters, who repeatedly hid themselves amongst peaceful protesters of all ages and backgrounds. Several hundred peaceful demonstrators, rioters, and police were injured and hundreds were arrested during the days surrounding the G8 meeting; most of those arrested have been charged with some form of \"criminal association\" under Italy's anti-mafia and anti-terrorist laws.\n\nThe first World Social Forum (WSF) in 2001 was an initiative of , Chico Whitaker, and Bernard Cassen. It was supported by the city of Porto Alegre (where it took place) and the Brazilian Worker's Party. The motivation was to constitute a counter-event to the World Economic Forum held in Davos at the same time. The slogan of the WSF is \"Another World Is Possible\". An \"International Council\" (IC) was set up to discuss and decide major issues regarding the WSF, while the local organizing committee in the host city is responsible for the practical preparations of the event. In June 2001, the IC adopted the World Social Forum Charter of Principles, which provides a framework for international, national, and local Social Forums worldwide.\n\nThe WSF became a periodic meeting: in 2002 and 2003 it was held again in Porto Alegre and became a rallying point for worldwide protest against the American invasion of Iraq. In 2004 it was moved to Mumbai, India), to make it more accessible to the populations of Asia and Africa. This Forum had 75,000 delegates. In 2006 it was held in three cities: Caracas, Venezuela, Bamako, Mali, and Karachi, Pakistan. In 2007, the Forum was hosted in Nairobi, Kenya, in 2009 it was in Belém, Brazil, and in 2011 it was in Dakar, Senegal. In 2012, the WSF returned to Porto Alegre.\n\nThe idea of creating a meeting place for organizations and individuals opposed to Neoliberalism was soon replicated elsewhere. The first European Social Forum (ESF) was held in November 2002 in Florence. The slogan was \"Against the war, against racism and against neo-liberalism\". It saw the participation of 60,000 delegates and ended with a huge demonstration against the war (1,000,000 people according to the organizers). The following ESFs took place in Paris (2003), London (2004), Athens (2006), Malmö (2008), and the latest ESF in Istanbul (2010).\n\nIn many countries Social Forums of national and local scope were also held.\n\nRecently there has been some discussion behind the movement about the role of the social forums. Some see them as a \"popular university\", an occasion to make many people aware of the problems of globalization. Others would prefer that delegates concentrate their efforts on the coordination and organization of the movement and on the planning of new campaigns. However it has often been argued that in the dominated countries (most of the world) the WSF is little more than an 'NGO fair' driven by Northern NGOs and donors most of which are hostile to popular movements of the poor.\n\nAfter the Second World War, North Korea followed a policy of Anti-Globalization. However, in recent decades have shown a distinctive rise in globalization movements in North Korea. Under the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea, Pyongyang(2002), introduced a number of reforms in areas such as technology and trade. The reform that had the most significance to North Korea was trade. North Korea saw a change in trading partnerships. They now not only traded with themselves but also with South Korea and China. North Korea introduced these reforms because they were lacking in areas of technology and trade and they realized that they could not maintain themselves as a society without help from other. But even with these new reforms North Korea still remains the most isolated society in the world.\n\nThe anti-globalization movement has been criticized by politicians, members of conservative think tanks, and many mainstream economists.\n\nCritics assert that the empirical evidence does not support the views of the anti-globalization movement. These critics point to statistical trends which are interpreted to be results of globalization, capitalism, and the economic growth they encourage.\n\nMembers of the anti-globalization movement argue that positive data from countries which largely ignored neoliberal prescriptions, notably China, discredits the evidence that pro-globalists present. For example, concerning the parameter of per capita income growth, development economist Ha-Joon Chang writes that considering the record of the last two decades the argument for continuing neo-liberal policy prescriptions are \"simply untenable.\" Noting that \"It depends on the data we use, but roughly speaking, per capita income in developing countries grew at 3% per year between 1960 and 1980, but has grown only at about 1.5% between 1980 and 2000. And even this 1.5% will be reduced to 1%, if we take out India and China, which have not pursued liberal trade and industrial policies recommended by the developed countries.\" Jagdish Bhagwati argues that reforms that opened up the economies of China and India contributed to their higher growth in 1980s and 1990s. From 1980 to 2000 their GDP grew at average rate of 10 and 6 percent respectively. This was accompanied by reduction of poverty from 28 percent in 1978 to 9 percent in 1998 in China, and from 51 percent in 1978 to 26 percent in 2000 in India. Likewise, Joseph E. Stiglitz, speaking not only on China but East Asia in general, comments \"The countries that have managed globalization...such as those in East Asia, have, by and large, ensured that they reaped huge benefits...\" According to The Heritage Foundation, development in China was anticipated by Milton Friedman, who predicted that even a small progress towards economic liberalization would produce dramatic and positive effects. China's economy had grown together with its economic freedom. Critics of corporate-led globalization have expressed concern about the methodology used in arriving at the World Bank's statistics and argue that more detailed variables measuring poverty should be studied. According to the Center for Economic and Policy Research (CEPR), the period from 1980–2005 has seen diminished progress in terms of economic growth, life expectancy, infant and child mortality, and to a lesser extent education.\n\nOne of the most common criticisms of the movement, which does not necessarily come from its opponents, is simply that the anti-globalization movement lacks coherent goals, and that the views of different protesters are often in opposition to each other. Many members of the movement are also aware of this, and argue that, as long as they have a common opponent, they should march together - even if they don't share exactly the same political vision. Writers Michael Hardt & Antonio Negri have together in their books (\"Empire\" &\" Multitude\") expanded on this idea of a disunified multitude: humans coming together for shared causes, but lacking the complete sameness of the notion of 'the people'.\n\nOne argument often made by the opponents of the anti-globalization movement (especially by \"The Economist\"), is that one of the major causes of poverty amongst third-world farmers are the trade barriers put up by rich nations and poor nations alike. The WTO is an organization set up to work towards removing those trade barriers. Therefore, it is argued, people really concerned about the plight of the third world should actually be encouraging free trade, rather than attempting to fight it. Specifically, commodities such as sugar are heavily distorted by subsidies on behalf of powerful economies (the United States, Europe, and Japan), who have a disproportionate influence in the WTO. As a result, producers in these countries often receive 2-3x the world market price. As Amani Elobeid and John Beghin note, the world price might decline by as much as 48% (by 2011 / 2012 baselines) were these distortions to be removed\n\nMany supporters of globalization think that policies different from those of today should be pursued, although not necessarily those advocated by the anti-globalization movement. For example, some see the World Bank and the IMF as corrupt bureaucracies which have given repeated loans to dictators who never do any reforms. Some, like Hernando De Soto, argue that much of the poverty in the Third World countries is caused by the lack of Western systems of laws and well-defined and universally recognized property rights. De Soto argues that because of the legal barriers poor people in those countries can not utilize their assets to produce more wealth.\n\nCritics have asserted that people from poor (the Developing countries) have been relatively accepting and supportive of globalization while the strongest opposition to globalization has come from wealthy \"First World\" activists, unions and NGOs. Alan Shipman, author of \"The Globalization Myth\" accuses the anti-globalization movement of \"defusing the Western class war by shifting alienation and exploitation to developing-country sweatshops.\" He later goes on to claim that the anti-globalization movement has failed to attract widespread support from poor and working people from the developing nations, and that its \"strongest and most uncomprehending critics had always been the workers whose liberation from employment they were trying to secure.\"\n\nThese critics assert that people from the Third World see the anti-globalization movement as a threat to their jobs, wages, consuming options and livelihoods, and that a cessation or reversal of globalization would result in many people in poor countries being left in greater poverty. Jesús F. Reyes Heroles the former Mexican Ambassador to the US, stated that \"in a poor country like ours, the alternative to low-paid jobs isn't well-paid ones, it's no jobs at all.\"\n\nEgypt's Ambassador to the UN has also stated \"The question is why all of a sudden, when third world labor has proved to be competitive, why do industrial countries start feeling concerned about our workers? When all of a sudden there is a concern about the welfare of our workers, it is suspicious.\"\n\nOn the other hand, there have been notable protests against certain globalization policies by workers in developing nations as in the cause of Indian farmers protesting against patenting seeds.\n\nIn the last few years, many developing countries (esp. in Latin America and Caribbean) created alter-globalization organizations as economic blocs Mercosur and Unasur, political community CELAC or Bank of the South which are supporting development of low income countries without involvement from IMF or World Bank.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40709346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40709346", "title": "Arif Durrani", "text": "Arif Durrani\n\nArif Ali Durrani (born c. 1949 in Pakistan) is a Pakistani businessman who has twice been convicted by US courts of selling arms to Iran.\n\nDurrani was the son of a Pakistani Army officer with responsibility for military procurement. Durrani moved to the United States in 1973, settling in California. He gained an MBA from the University of Southern California.\n\nIn February 1984 Durrani formed a company, Merex Corp, which traded in parts for military and commercial aircraft, and by his own account reached sales of $16m in 1986. He was arrested in October 1986 and subsequently convicted of trading Hawk missile parts to Iran, in what Durrani maintained were actions authorised by leading US government figures (specifically, Oliver North) as part of the Iran-Contra affair with the specific aim of his shipment leading to the freeing of US hostages held in Lebanon. In denying Durrani bail, the judge described him as \"enjoy[ing] an exorbitant lifestyle replete with material luxuries and one which causes him to travel the globe to meet with his business associates.\" Durrani was sentenced to 10 years (and a $2m fine), and released after five years, in September 1992. Durrani said that many of his deals were financed via Bank of Credit and Commerce International. Durrani continued to protest his innocence after his release, arguing that he was working on transactions approved by the US and Israeli governments.\n\nOn September 30, 1992, Durrani testified to the United States House of Representatives' October Surprise Task Force regarding public statements he made that members of Ronald Reagan's presidential campaign met with Iranian officials to influence the outcome of the 1980 United States Presidential Election by delaying the release of American hostages. He had previously told journalists Robert Parry and Robert Ross that the head of the Iran's Revolutionary Guards, Mohsen Rafiqdust, told him of a meeting between Iranian and United States officials in Madrid, Spain. In an on-camera interview for \"Frontline\" aired in April 1991, Durrani elaborated stating that Rafiqdust, Mohsen Reza'i, and officials with the Revolutionary Guards told him a meeting between Mehdi Karroubi and Central Intelligence Agency Director William Casey in Spain. According to Gary Sick, Durrani had learned about the meeting from Rafiqdust, Reza'i, and Hamid Nagashian. Durrani recanted these claims during his deposition to the Task Force. He denied telling Robert Parry and Robert Ross that his contacts with the Revolutionary Guard told him about meetings between Iranian and US officials, said his on-air comments had been taken out of context or that he had misunderstood the reporter's question, and said that Sick's report was \"incorrect\".\n\nIn 2006 Durrani was again convicted of selling arms to Iran, and sentenced to more than 12 years in prison.\n\n"}
{"id": "20830648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20830648", "title": "BKD, LLP", "text": "BKD, LLP\n\nBKD, LLP, formerly Baird, Kurtz & Dobson, is one of the largest U.S. accounting and advisory firms, providing consulting, tax, assurance and accounting outsourcing solutions to businesses, government entities, not-for-profit organizations and individuals.\n\nBKD is headquartered in Springfield, Missouri, and has 38 offices in 17 states and serves clients in all 50 states. In 2016, the firm reported revenues of $550 million and approximately 2,600 personnel, including roughly 260 partners.\n\nBKD, LLP offers advisory, assurance, and tax services including state and local tax, international tax, real estate cost segregation, transfer pricing, wealth management, employee benefit plans, valuation services, business transition services, and information technologies. The firm works with clients in the construction, real estate, health care, energy, manufacturing, transportation, retail, and transportation sectors.\n\nIn 1922, three men—William Baird, Wade Kurtz and Claire Dobson—decided to start their own firm with offices in Kansas City and Joplin, Missouri, after the disbandment of the Montgomery Firm, where the three had been employed. On January 2, 1923, the men took the $1,700 they had in the bank and opened their business: Baird, Kurtz & Dobson.\n\nInitially, the firm looked to expand to St. Louis and Chicago, but the 1929 stock market crash and subsequent Great Depression curtailed growth, forcing the firm to build its clientele and reputation in Kansas City and Joplin.\n\nAfter World War II, a growth period began. A third office opened in Springfield, Missouri, in July 1948, and a uranium boom led the firm to purchase a tax practice in Grand Junction, Colorado.\n\nThe 1960s represented a period of significant change. In 1964, the firm drafted its formal partnership agreement, which still exists today. The passage of the Medicare Act in 1965 led the firm to focus on growing its health care practice, which today constitutes the firm’s largest industry focus.\n\nExpansion continued throughout the 1970s and 1980s, with the firm opening new offices in Arkansas, Oklahoma, Missouri, Texas, Nebraska and Kentucky.\n\nSince that time, steady growth has continued. The firm created its first wholly owned subsidiary, BKD Corporate Finance, LLC, in 1994 and passed the $100 million revenue mark in 1999. The firm created its charitable arm, the BKD Foundation, in 2000; since making its first charitable gift in February 2000, the foundation has given more than $9 million to qualifying 501(c)(3) organization. In recent years, BKD has been known to play an active role in the charities \"Fighting Hunger... Feeding Hope.\" and the Ronald McDonald House.\n\nThe firm undertook its largest merger in 2001, combining with Olive LLP to create BKD, LLP, which was the eighth-largest U.S. accounting firm at the time. That year also marked a name change for BKD Investment Advisors, founded in 1998, to BKD Wealth Advisors, LLC.\n\nOn October 1, 2013 BKD officially acquired Malin Bergquist & Co, LLP, a firm that was previously based in Erie, Pennsylvania.\n\nAs of November 1, 2014, Wolf & Company officially became a part of BKD through the result of a merger.\n\nIn 2015, BKD launched women's initiatives, sales training that spanned the entire firm, and a national enterprise risk solutions practice.\n\nToday, the firm claims 34 offices in 15 states, including Arkansas, Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Ohio, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, and Texas, making it one of the largest accounting firms in the United States.\n\nBKD is a member of the Praxity alliance, an association of global, independent accountancy, tax, business, and consulting firms. BKD is the largest member of the Praxity group from the United States. The firm's affiliation with Praxity enables interaction with international clients, as well as provides global support and resources .\n\nIn 2015, BKD was named 13th on the list of the Top 100 Firms published by Accounting Today. Additionally, Accounting Today also ranked BKD as the #1 firm in the Midwest Region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15170367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15170367", "title": "Bird City (wildfowl refuge)", "text": "Bird City (wildfowl refuge)\n\nBird City is a private wildfowl refuge or bird sanctuary located on Avery Island in coastal Iberia Parish, Louisiana.\n\nIt was founded by Tabasco sauce heir and conservationist Edward Avery McIlhenny, whose family owned Avery Island. McIlhenny established the refuge around 1895 on his own personal tract of the island, an approximately estate known eventually as Jungle Gardens because of its lush tropical flora.\n\nBy the late 19th century, plume hunters had nearly wiped out the snowy egret population of the United States in pursuit of the bird's delicate feathers, which were commonly used by milliners for the adornment of ladies' hats.\n\nAlarmed by this trend, McIlhenny searched the Gulf Coast and located several surviving egrets, which he took back to his estate on Avery Island. There he turned the birds loose in a type of aviary he called a \"flying cage,\" where the birds soon adapted to their new surroundings. In the fall McIlhenny set the birds loose to migrate south for the winter.\n\nAs he hoped, the birds returned to Avery Island in the spring, bringing with them even more snowy egrets. This pattern continued until, by 1911, the refuge served as the summer nesting ground for an estimated 100,000 egrets.\n\nBecause of its early founding and example to others, Theodore Roosevelt, father of American conservationism, once referred to Bird City as \"the most noteworthy reserve in the country.\"\n\nToday, snowy egrets continue to return to Bird City each spring to nest until resuming their migration in the fall.\n"}
{"id": "6600620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6600620", "title": "Black Gold (video game)", "text": "Black Gold (video game)\n\nBlack Gold (also known as \"Oil Imperium\") is a video game of the strategy genre released in 1989 by reLINE Software.\n\nThe goal of the game is to promote and sell oil and defeat competitors using a number of fair and unfair strategies. A game move always takes a month, and each action in the game costs one or more days.\n\nThe game is designed for four players, either human (using a hot seat method) or computer-controlled. Players take on the management of one of four corporations: \"Interoil\", \"All American\", \"Transoil\" or \"Explora Inc.\"\n\nThere are four different game objectives to choose from: to play a three-year game, to survive the longest of all the game companies, to receive an 80% market share or to reach 60 million dollars. There are some game mechanic variations between the missions. For example, when playing to the first 60 million dollars, drilling a borehole takes longer than in the other missions.\n\nThere are eight oil-producing regions to choose from where players must acquire licenses, tankers and oil fields: Alaska, North America, Central America, South America, Europe, USSR, the Gulf region and Indochina.\n\nThe player can request an expert opinion of an oil field's probable yield before purchase. Once a field has been bought, the player may drill manually or pay game money for automatic drilling. Enemies in the game can disrupt play using sabotage. This can be done by igniting the oil fields, destroying tankers, manipulating balance sheets, etc. To protect against such moves, a player can hire a security company.\n\nIn the course of the game there are three action sequences. Oil sales can lead to delays, and the player must manually lay pipeline. Manual drilling requires the player to correct the deviation of the drill head. Finally, burning oil wells must be deleted using dynamite. The latter can be carried out by a specialist called \"Ted Redhair\" (inspired by the famous Red Adair).\n"}
{"id": "224387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224387", "title": "Breach of contract", "text": "Breach of contract\n\nBreach of contract is a legal cause of action and a type of civil wrong, in which a binding agreement or bargained-for exchange is not honored by one or more of the parties to the contract by non-performance or interference with the other party's performance. Breach occurs when a party to a contract fails to fulfill his or her obligation as described in the contract, or communicates an intent to fail the obligation or otherwise appears not to be able to perform his or her obligation under the contract.\n\nIn a \"minor\" breach (a partial breach or immaterial breach or where there has been substantial performance), the non-breaching party cannot sue for specific performance, and can only sue for actual damages.\n\nSuppose a homeowner hires a contractor to install new plumbing and insists that the pipes, which will ultimately be hidden behind the walls, must be red. The contractor instead uses blue pipes that function just as well. Although the contractor breached the literal terms of the contract, the homeowner cannot ask a court to order the contractor to replace the blue pipes with red pipes. The homeowner can only recover the amount of his or her actual damages. In this instance, this is the difference in value between red pipe and blue pipe. Since the color of a pipe does not affect its function, the difference in value is zero. Therefore, no damages have been incurred and the homeowner would receive nothing (see \"Jacob & Youngs v. Kent\".)\n\nHowever, had the pipe colour been specified in the agreement as a \"condition\", a breach of that condition would constitute a \"major\" breach. For example, when a contract specifies time is of the essence and one party to the contract fails to meet a contractual obligation in a timely fashion, the other party could sue for damages for a major breach.\n\nA \"material breach\" is any failure to perform that permits the other party to the contract to either compel performance, or collect damages because of the breach. A breach of contract will constitute a material breach if the term of the contract that has been breached is a condition. A term is a condition if it satisfies the test of essentiality. The test of essentiality requires that the promise (term) was of such importance to the promisee that he or she would not have entered into the contract unless he had been assured of strict or substantial performance of the promise and this ought to have been apparent to the promisor. This is an objective test of the parties' intention at the time of formation of the contract. \n\nIf the contractor in the above example had been instructed to use copper pipes, and instead used iron pipes that would not last as long as the copper pipes would have lasted, the homeowner can recover the cost of actually correcting the breach – taking out the iron pipes and replacing them with copper pipes.\n\nThere are exceptions to this. Legal scholars and courts often state that the owner of a house whose pipes are not the specified grade or quality (a typical hypothetical example) cannot recover the cost of replacing the pipes for the following reasons:\n\n\nMost homeowners would be unable to collect damages that compensate them for replacing the pipes, but rather would be awarded damages that compensate them for the \"loss of value\" in the house. For example, say the house is worth $125,000 with copper and $120,000 with iron pipes. The homeowner would be able to collect the $5,000 difference, and nothing more.\nIn the United States, the Restatement (Second) of Contracts lists the following criteria to determine whether a specific failure constitutes a material breach:\n\nA \"fundamental breach\" (or \"repudiatory breach\") is a breach so fundamental that it permits the aggrieved party to terminate performance of the contract. In addition, that party is entitled to sue for damages.\n\nA \"breach by anticipatory repudiation\" (or simply \"anticipatory breach\") is an unequivocal indication that the party will not perform when performance is due, or a situation in which future non-performance is inevitable. An anticipatory breach gives the non-breaching party the option to treat such a breach as immediate, and, if repudiatory, to terminate the contract and sue for damages (without waiting for the breach to actually take place).\n\nFor example, A contracts with B on January 1 to sell 500 quintals of wheat and to deliver it on May 1. Subsequently, on April 15, A writes to B and says that he will not deliver the wheat. B may immediately consider the breach to have occurred and file a suit for damages for the scheduled performance, even though A has until May 1 to perform. However, a unique feature of anticipatory breach is that if an aggrieved party chooses not to accept a repudiation occurring before the time set for performance, not only will the contract continue on foot, but also there will be no right to damages unless and until an actual breach occurs.\n\n"}
{"id": "44890670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44890670", "title": "Carlos Alberto Sicupira", "text": "Carlos Alberto Sicupira\n\nCarlos Alberto Sicupira (born 1948) is a Brazilian businessman, a partner in 3G Capital, which owns or has major stakes in Burger King, H.J. Heinz Company, Anheuser-Busch InBev and Lojas Americanas.\n\nCarlos Alberto Sicupira was born in Brazil. He has a degree from the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", he has an estimated net worth of $12.7 billion in February 2017.\n\nHe is married and has three children.\n"}
{"id": "55824249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55824249", "title": "Carole Kariuki", "text": "Carole Kariuki\n\nCarole Kariuki, is a businesswoman and business executive in Kenya, who serves as the chief executive officer of Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), an industry group that represents and lobbies on behalf of Kenyan businesses and industries. KEPSA also advises policymakers on the best way to formulate local and regional laws to promote growth of the Kenyan economy sustainably. Finally KEPSA informs and educates its member companies on best business practices, collective responsibility, environmental conservation, social obligations and ethical business etiquette.\n\nShe was born in Nakuru County, near Egerton University circa 1975. She was admitted to the University of Nairobi, where she graduated with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Economics and Sociology. Later, she received a scholarship to attend Bowling Green State University in Bowling Green, Ohio, in the United States, where she graduated with a Master of Public Administration and International Affairs.\n\nHer first job right out of Nairobi University, was with Barclays Bank of Kenya, where she worked for a year but did not like banking, so she left. She then worked for Nairobi Chapel for about two years. While there, she secured a full scholarship to study for her masters degree in the United States.\n\nFollowing her graduate studies, she worked for one year at \"Sagamore Institute for Public Policy Research\", in Indianapolis, Indiana. At Sagamore, she was able to initiate HIV/AIDS collaboration between concerned organizations and individuals in the United States, with AMPATH, the largest AIDS treatment and prevention programme in Africa south of the Sahara. She then returned to Kenya and took up a job as a program officer at KEPSA, working there for about one year before she was appointed CEO in 2010.\n\nMs Carole Kariuki has won numerous local, regional and international awards, in recognition of her body of work. The awards bestowed upon her include (a) She was the first person to be elected as Senior Fellow at ISOKO, an Indianapolis-based institute that promotes private enterprise in Africa (b) She won the \"Women Super Achiever Award\" awarded by \"World Women Leadership Congress and Awards 2017\", based in India (c) She was awarded the Moran of the Burning Spear (MBS) in 2012 by the president of Kenya and (d) In 2011 and 2012 she was named among the \"Top 40 women in business under 40 years\" in two consecutive years, a list compiled by the business daily newspaper Business Daily Africa, published in Nairobi by the Nation Media Group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14937671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14937671", "title": "Chimney sweeps' carcinoma", "text": "Chimney sweeps' carcinoma\n\nChimney sweep's cancer, also called soot wart, is a squamous cell carcinoma of the skin of the scrotum. It has the distinction of being the first reported form of occupational cancer, and was initially identified by Percivall Pott in 1775. It was initially noticed as being prevalent amongst chimney sweeps.\n\nChimney sweeps' carcinoma is a squamous cell carcinoma of the skin of the scrotum. Warts caused by the irritation from soot particles, if not excised, developed into a scrotal cancer. This then invaded the dartos, enlarged the testicle, and proceeded up the spermatic cord into the abdomen where it proved fatal.\n\nChimney sweeps' carcinoma was first described by Percivall Pott in 1775 who postulated that the cancer was associated with occupational exposure to soot. The cancer primarily affected chimney sweeps who had been in contact with soot since their early childhood. The median age of onset of symptoms in one review was 37.7 years, although boys as young as 8 years old were found to have the disease. It was proposed by W.G. Spencer in 1890 that sweat running down their bodies had caused soot to accumulate in the rugae of the inferior surfaces of the scrotum, with the resulting chronic irritation causing scrotal cancer, but this was shown to be an incorrect artifact of the method used to stain his microscope slides.\n\nIn 1922, R.D. Passey, a research physician at Guy's Hospital in London produced malignant skin tumors in mice exposed to an extract made from soot, demonstrating the presence of carcinogenic substances in soot which were the likely cause of cancer of the scrotum in chimney sweeps.\n\nin the 1930s Ernest Kennaway and James D. Cook of the Research Institute of the Cancer Hospital, London, (later known as the Royal Marsden Hospital) discovered several polycyclic hydrocarbons present in soot that were potent carcinogens: 1,2,5,6-dibenzanthracene; 1,2,7,8-dibenzanthracene; and 1,2-benzpyrene (3) benzo[α]pyrene. DNA consists of sequences of four bases – adenine, thymine, cytosine and guanine – bound to a deoxyribonucleic backbone. Benzo[α]pyrene interacts with deoxyguanosine of the DNA, damaging it and potentially starting the processes that can lead to cancer.\n\nThe disease was principally a British phenomenon; in Germany, for example, sweeps wore tight-fitting protective clothing which prevented the soot from accumulating on the lower surface of the scrotum, whereas boys in the UK were once sent up the chimneys wearing only trousers and shirt, and occasionally naked. \nIn the United Kingdom before the flexible brush was introduced, the master sweeps took apprentices, who were boys from the workhouse or bought them from their parents and trained them to climb chimneys. In the German States, master sweeps belonged to trade guilds and did not use climbing boys. In Italy, Belgium, and France climbing boys were used. Boys as young as four climbed hot flues that could be as narrow as 230 mm square. Work was dangerous and they could get jammed in the flue, suffocate or burn to death. The boys slept under the soot sacks and were rarely washed. From 1775 onwards there was increasing concern for the welfare of the boys, and Acts of Parliament were passed to restrict, and in 1875 to stop this usage. Lord Shaftesbury, a philanthropist, led the later campaign. In the United States, black children were hired from their owners and used in the same way, and were still climbing after 1875.\n\nSir Percivall Pott (6 January 1714 – 22 December 1788) London, England) was an English surgeon, one of the founders of orthopedy, and the first scientist to demonstrate that a cancer may be caused by an environmental carcinogen.\nIn 1765 he was elected Master of the Company of Surgeons, the forerunner of the Royal College of Surgeons. It was in 1775 that Pott found an association between exposure to soot and a high incidence of chimney sweeps' carcinoma, a scrotal cancer (later found to be squamous cell carcinoma) in chimney sweeps. This was the first occupational link to cancer, and Pott was the first person to demonstrate that a malignancy could be caused by an environmental carcinogen. Pott's early investigations contributed to the science of epidemiology and the Chimney Sweepers Act 1788.\n\nPott describes chimney sweeps' carcinoma thus:\n\nIt is a disease which always makes it first attack on the inferior part of the scrotum where it produces a superficial, painful ragged ill-looking sore with hard rising edges...in no great length of time it pervades the skin, dartos and the membranes of the scrotum, and seizes the testicle, which it inlarges, hardens and renders truly and thoroughly distempered. Whence it makes its way up the spermatic process into the abdomen.\nHe comments on the life of the boys:\n\nThe fate of these people seems peculiarly hard ... they are treated with great brutality ... they are thrust up narrow and sometimes hot chimnies, where they are bruised burned and almost suffocated; and when they get to puberty they become ... liable to a most noisome, painful and fatal disease.\nThe carcinogen was thought to be coal tar, possibly containing some arsenic.\n\nThough Pott wrote no further papers on the subject, clinical reports began to appear suggesting that others had seen it without realising what it was and like Pott had said:\n\n[as it occurs after puberty]...it is generally taken, both by patient and surgeon for venereal and treated with mercurial [salts].\n\nThe disease was usually preceded by the development of hyperkeratotic lesions on the scrotum, which was what the sweeps called soot warts. These could be benign; sweeps often removed them themselves by trapping them in a split cane and cutting them off with a pocket knife. For instance:\n\n\"he... seized with a split stick and cut off with a razor. He remarked that it was not very painful. He resumed work the following day.\"\n\nBut if the lesion had become malignant it was far more serious. Patients frequently delayed seeking medical opinion, and when they did many were in a dreadful state. A 28-year-old sweep approached Jefferies in 1825, who describes his condition:\n\n\"The sore occupies the whole of the left side of the scrotum and the inner angle of the thigh, extending from the anus to the posterior inferior spinous process of the ileum, presenting a surface as large as a man's open hand, with hard indurated edges and irregular margins, discharging a thin sanies, which is extremely offensive; the left testicle is entirely denuded, and projects from its centre; in the left groin is a mass of indurated glands, the size of a goose's egg, which appears to suppurate in the right groin: there is likewise an ulceration, of the same malignant nature, about the size of a half-crown (5 cm)...\"\n\nDespite the appearance of this growth, the man was in no pain and his only complaint was that about 10 days before his admission he had bled from his groin and lost about a pint of blood. Even this, however, had not unduly affected his constitution.\n\nTreatment was by surgery, where all the diseased flesh was cut out. Before the introduction of anaesthetics this was a simple process for the surgeon but terrifying for the patient. Alternative treatments were also proposed including the application of an arsenic paste poultice. The real cause of this cancer was unproved until the discovery of weak carcinogens in soot by Passley in 1922. Until then the most popular theory was that soot got trapped in the rugae of the scrotum and this caused a general irritation. Sweeps were not known for their attention to bodily hygiene and it was assumed they never washed their genitals. The youngest victim, recorded in 1790 by James Earle (Pott's son-in-law), was 8 years old.\n\nDecades later, it was noticed to occur amongst gas plant and oil shale workers, and it was later found that certain constituents of tar, soot, and oils, known as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, were found to cause cancer in laboratory animals. The related cancer, mule spinners' carcinoma, was blamed on the carcinogenic content of shale oil that was used to lubricate the rapidly revolving mule spindles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14524638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14524638", "title": "College National Fed Challenge", "text": "College National Fed Challenge\n\nThe College National Fed Challenge competition is an academic competition similar to the National Fed Challenge high school competition. The College Fed Challenge is a yearly team competition for undergraduate college students inspired by the working of the Federal Open Market Committee. The competition is intended to encourage students to learn more about the U.S. macro economy, the Federal Reserve System and the implementation of monetary policy. The College Fed Challenge also aims at promoting interest in economics and finance as subjects for advanced study and as the basis for a career.\n\nCollege Fed Challenge Mission\n\nIn addition to the educational benefits and confidence arising through rigorous competition, students benefit from opportunities to apply their economic experiences in the real world. These skills learned can be applied to acquire internships, discover potential career paths, and hone skills of public speaking, logical thinking, writing, and analysis. Instructors of undergraduate institutions benefit through the use of a venue to develop enthusiasm for the study of economics and to integrate their curriculum with an active learning experience.\n\nGoals\n\nComplete list of goals.\n\n Teams of 3–5 students present current macroeconomic and financial information to a panel compiled of professional economists, bankers, financial analysts, and academics. Each team is afforded 15 minutes to analyze and present various macroeconomic theories which if implemented, could lead to economic prosperity. At the end of the 15-minute presentation the team must formulate a monetary plan for the Federal Reserve Bank to implement. A 15-minute question and answer session involving the presenting team and the panel follows the 15-minute presentation. Panel members quiz the students on current events, economic definitions, and macroeconomic policy during the 15-minute session.\n\n The panel of judges score each team after the 15-minute question and answer session. A maximum of 50 points are awarded accordingly. Judges use a scoring rubric which analyzes the team's “Knowledge of the Fed, current state of the economy, and monetary policy”, “Responses to Judges questions”, “Quality of the presentation”, “Research and analysis”, and “Teamwork and cooperation”.\n\n The following Federal Reserve Banks participate in the College Fed Challenge:\n\n2018 Yale University: Ramiz Colak, Sienna Gough, Rohit Goyal, David Rubio, and Lydia Wickard <br>\n2017 Pace University: Klejdja Qosja, Marina Testani, Salil Ahuja, Scarlett Bekus, and Carly Aznavorian <br>\n2016 Rutgers University - New Brunswick: Karn Dalal, Ali Haider Ismail, Andrew Lee, Shivram Viswanathan, and Ashton W. Welles <br>\n2015 Pace University: Daniella Gambino, Katherine Craig, Omar Habib, Yuliya Palianok, and Melissa Navas <br>\n2014 Pace University: Lauren Price, Yulia Mikhailova, Kelsey Berro, Katherine Craig, and Jordan Jhamb <br>\n2013 Harvard: Andreas Schaab, Eugene Wang, Samuel Young, Justin Katiraei, and Daniel Tartakovsky <br>\n2012 Northwestern: David Chen, Eric Zhang, Jonathan Cohen, Geoffrey Bery, and Nikhil Byanna <br>\n2011 Harvard: Sumit Malik, Anirudha Balasubramanian, James Sun, Benjamin Sprung-Keyser, and Andreas Schaab <br>\n2010 Bentley: David Norrish, Pranay Jain, Christina Harstad, Peter Jurik, and Satyajeet Jadhavrao <br>\n2009 Lafayette: Teevrat Garg, Dan Stefan, Dylan McNamara, and Nick Stacey <br>\n2008 Harvard: Troy Murrell, Colin Motley, Akeel Rangwala, William Schaub, and Anna Zhang <br>\n2007 Harvard: Troy Murrell, Colin Motley, Akeel Rangwala, William Schaub, and Scott Vautour <br>\n2006 Northwestern: Joshua Plavner, Rosa Li, Jeanne Ruan, Frederick Herrmann, and Joshua Goldstein <br>\n2005 Northwestern: Aditya Damani, Derek Moeller, Jeanne Ruan, Kevin Rodrigues, and Reed Van Gorden <br>\n2004 Northwestern: Aditya Damani, Derek Moeller, Alexander Leung, Rosa Li, and Josh Plavner\n\n"}
{"id": "6357445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6357445", "title": "Esther Koplowitz, Marquise of Cubas", "text": "Esther Koplowitz, Marquise of Cubas\n\nEsther María Koplowitz y Romero de Juseu, 7th Marchioness of Casa Peñalver, is a Spanish billionaire businesswoman and philanthropist.\n\nKoplowitz is Vice-President of the Board of Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas (FCC), one of the leading diversified Spanish groups, employing around ninety thousand people. She also holds board positions in several national and international companies, for instance Vice-President of the board of Cementos Portland Valderrivas and formerly board member of French multinational Veolia Environnement.\n\nShe is chairwoman of the Foundation that bears her name, the Esther Koplowitz Foundation, principally dedicated to charity work to help those most in need in society. She has built, equipped and donated care homes such as “Nuestra Casa” in Collado-Villalba (Madrid), and “La Nostra Casa” of Fort-Pienc in Barcelona, both for the elderly in need of special assistance as well as those without financial means, and “La Nostra Casa de Vall de la Ballestera” in Valencia for physically and mentally disabled adults. The construction of two other care homes is in the pipeline, one in Valladolid and a second in Valencia. They will both share the same objective as the home already built in Valencia.\n\nShe has received numerous recognitions and awards for her philanthropic work as well as for her business acumen. Among them the Great Cross of the Order of Civil Merit, Gold Medal of Civil Order for Charitable Acts, Madrid Region Gold Medal, Blanquerna award from Catalonia Regional Government and Gold Medal, Academic Honour from the Royal Academy of History and Chevalier de l'ordre de la Légion d'honneur.\n\nEsther and Alicia inherited their noble titles from their mother. Esther was the \"Countess of Peñalver\" and \"Marquise of Campo Florido\", titles now owned by her two daughters Carmen Alcocer y Koplowitz (now countess of Peñalver) and Alicia Alcocer y Koplowitz (now marquise of Campo Florido). Her sister Alicia is the \"Marquesa de Bellavista\".\nIn 2003 Esther Koplowitz married Fernando Falcó, Marquis of Cubas, whom she divorced in 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "22185535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22185535", "title": "Harry Lewiston", "text": "Harry Lewiston\n\nHarry Lewiston (April 2, 1900 – June 1, 1965; legal name Israel Harry Jaffe) was an American showman, freak show director, and barker. He wrote his memoirs under his stage name, published posthumously in 1968 as \"Freak Show Man: the Autobiography of Harry Lewiston, as told to Jerry Holtman\".\n\nHarry Lewiston was born Israel Harry Jaffe in Lithuania on April 2, 1900, and emigrated to the United States with his family in 1906. The eldest of four siblings, he was raised in Worcester, Massachusetts in a strict Orthodox Jewish household. In 1914, he ran away from home and joined the combined Sells Floto Circus / Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show. He claimed that he was seventeen years old in order to be allowed to stay with the circus, and was renamed \"Lewiston,\" reportedly assigned based on the first major city he worked in, Lewiston, Maine. While the circus toured the United States, Lewiston worked as a pony groomer and led the animals in the parade, wearing what he called an \"Arab costume\" as part of that year's \"East Meets West\" theme.\n\nAfter World War I broke out, Lewiston left the circus to enlist. After briefly being attached for training with the Canadian Army (serial number S-4147), he proceeded to the United Kingdom and was posted to the 40th Battalion of Britain's Royal Fusiliers in the Jewish Legion in 1918, serving as a camp cook (regimental number J5873). In his autobiography, he mentions serving with David Ben-Gurion, who was in the 38th; those units were stationed together in Palestine and other sites. Throughout the war, he was stationed in Taranto, Italy; Port Said, Egypt; Kantara, Egypt; Lod, Palestine; and Damascus, Syria. He noted that while in Damascus he was promoted to lance corporal; his actual service records show him being discharged at the rank of private. After the war ended, he traveled to South Africa to see relatives, as well as Rhodesia, India, and Burma, and eventually shipped back to England. In December 1919, he was officially discharged from military service, sailed from Liverpool to New York City aboard the \"S.S. Cedric\", and from there returned to Massachusetts.\n\nLewiston stayed with his family in Worcester for a short period of time, working as a shophand in a machine shop. Subsequently, he worked various jobs in New York City, then rode the rails to a few towns. In his autobiography, he mentions being arrested for vagrancy in eastern Georgia and working on a chain gang for six days. He then went to Cleveland and briefly worked in a restaurant.\n\nIn 1920, Lewiston went to Peru, Indiana, the winter quarters of five railroad circuses. He was hired by the John Robinson Shows, where he first worked as an usher, then as a \"candy butcher,\" selling concessions during the show as well as during the concert after the show. After the circus season ended for the winter, he worked as a candy butcher for the Union News Company on their train the West Point Railroad, which traveled back and forth from Atlanta to Jacksonville.\n\nIn 1921 and 1922, Lewiston worked as a candy butcher and concessions buyer for Howes Great London Circus. In his autobiography, he mentions that this is when he learned conning, grafting, and short-changing techniques. He then wintered with Christy Brothers Circus in Houston and worked in their ticket booth the following season, where he began to practice his short-changing technique. Over the next few years, he worked as assistant manager of concessions and as the purchasing agent with Gollmar Bros. Circus, then as a ticket seller for Gentry Brothers circus, where he dated a hoochie coochie dancer. Subsequently, he switched to Golden Brothers Circus, where he ran the hamburger stand, sold balloons and novelties, and also served as the substitute announcer. This was his first experience as a barker, referred to as a \"talker\" in the circus community (though \"barker\" will be used throughout this entry for ease of understanding).\n\nIn early 1925, he worked with the newly formed Carolina Minstrels, an all-black troupe based in Shelbyville, Kentucky. He \"strutted downtown at the head of the band to make announcements,\" and also sold reserved tickets, supervised equipment unloading and setup, and sold prize candy. Later that year, he switched to Miller Brothers 101 Ranch show, where he worked as a ticket seller and sideshow announcer. He worked for Miller Brothers again the following year, but was fired by Joe Miller for short-changing patrons. Lewiston was hired by the Boyd and Linderman Shows to organize and hire performers and musicians for a hoochie coochie show. After the touring season ended, he ran a (fixed) betting wheel for Pollack's 20 Big Shows. In early 1927, he worked as a candy butcher and a fill-in performer for Pat Whale's Traveling Burlesque Show, and then briefly ran a brothel/speakeasy in Kansas City, Missouri before the police shut it down.\n\nIn fall 1927, Lewiston was hired as the assistant to Arthur Hoffman of the Morris and Castle carnival. He prepared the opening of Singer's Midgets show at the Mississippi Valley Fair in Davenport, Iowa, where he also talked up the show on the midway and sold tickets. It was at this time that he met his future wife Rose Adelstein, who was working with Morris and Castle as a mentalist/fortuneteller under the name \"Lady Zindra.\" Lewiston stayed on with Morris and Castle the following year, and was named the manager of the \"Broadway review\" show. He began dating Rose, who was also raised as an Orthodox Jew, and they married on November 26, 1928 in Cook County, Illinois. She took his legal last name and became Rose Jaffe, but continued to perform as a fortune teller under her stage name and was known socially as Rose Lewiston.\n\nIn 1929, they both worked for the Al G. Barnes Circus sideshow. Lewiston worked again as an assistant to Arthur Hoffman, and Rose was a fortune teller. In 1930, they initially worked for the Hagenbeck-Wallace Circus. Lewiston managed the sideshow, and Rose was a fortune teller, but the show closed in late August from poor sales due to the Great Depression. Subsequently, they returned to Morris and Castle, and Lewiston brought several circus freaks with him. They stayed with Morris and Castel in 1931, and Lewiston and Rose also added a duo mindreading act to their performance at several state fairs. In 1932, he switched to the John T. Wortham Carnival, where he ran the privilege car and managed a fortune telling booth, while Rose returned to fortunetelling for the Al. G. Barnes Circus that season.\n\nIn late 1932, Lewiston was hired by sideshow impresario Duke Mills to organize a freak show for the upcoming \"Century of Progress\" World's Fair in Chicago, and to serve as the barker and managing director. The freak show opened in 1933, but competed poorly with Ripley's Believe It Or Not located just down the midway, and closed early after approximately six weeks. Lewiston was soon hired by showmen Lew Dufour and Joe Rogers to design the \"Darkest Africa\" show on the Midway at the World's Fair, featuring Africans from Nigeria, Uganda, Belgian Congo, and French Congo, and representing the Ubangi, Karamojo, and Ashanti ethnic groups. Sometimes calling himself \"Major Lewiston\" or \"Captain Lewiston,\" ranks above what he had earned, he worked as a barker for this show as well:\n\n\"Another of the lecturers, Capt. Harry Lewiston, formerly of the British army, also spoke of the blacks with genuine respect, adding, apropos of the Nigerians, \"You know, those men have eyesight about 300 per cent better than ours. Brave and strong! Look at the play of muscles on those backs! Give me a hundred thousand such men, trained in the use of modern arms, and I'll conquer the moon -- as the German officers used to say.\" \"\n\nThat winter, Lewiston and Rose did their duo mindreading act for Morris Miller's Traveling Museum.\n\nWhile working at the World's Fair in 1933, Lewiston was approached by Clyde Ingalls and hired to work at Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus the following year. He started in the sideshow ticket booth and the bally stand next to it in 1934, but was promoted as Ingalls' chief assistant on his second day. Lewiston also served as the sideshow pay master, and did special announcements. In his autobiography, he proudly notes that he adapted the circus slogan, coining the phrase \"The Greatest Side Show On Earth.\" While the circus was closed that winter, Lewiston and Rose did their duo mindreading act for the Gus Sun Circuit.\n\nIn 1935, Lewiston started at the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus opening at Madison Square Garden, where he directed the \"Parade of the Freaks\" from the center ring / hippodrome. \"Billboard\" noted that he was \"assistant manager of Clyde Ingalls' Side Show\" and \"has been alternating with latter on big show announcements,\" meaning that Lewiston was the chief announcer for the main circus acts, not just the sideshow. The magazine also noted that Lewiston would \"also present a mental act on road tour,\" which was a first for that circus; Ringling Bros. had previously distanced itself from acts traditionally associated with defrauding the public. Rose was hired to perform as \"Madam Zindra,\" the circus' first-ever mentalist. The couple continued to work with this circus for the next two years.\n\nIn late 1937, Lewiston and Rose left Ringling Bros. to form their own organization, and brought several circus freaks with them, including Grace McDaniels the \"Mule-Faced Woman,\" tattooed girl Stella Grassman, Clico the African pygmy, \"Human Balloon\" Art Hubbell, Disco the magician, Lady Johanna the mentalist, sword swallowers John and Vivian Dunning, and Mel Burkhart the \"Anatomical Wonder,\" who subsequently developed his \"Human Blockhead\" act while working in this show. Harry Lewiston's Traveling Museum (also known as \"Lewiston's Big Circus Sideshow,\" \"World's Fair Freaks,\" and \"Palace of Oddities\") featured a variety of sideshow and freak performers, a \"girlie show,\" and snakes. Additionally, Rose managed several fortune tellers and served as the entire organization's treasurer. They initially paired up with the Conklin and Garret Shows and performed at venues throughout the United States and Canada, including the Canadian National Exhibition. Their son Eli was born in Illinois in February 1938, and later became part of the act. He was billed as the baby of two dwarfs, with advertisements featuring teasers including \"Midget Couple and Normal Baby, 10-mo. old son.\" Lewiston's python display, which included a wrestling act, was featured in a full-column article with two more columns of photos in \"The Charlotte Observer\", and an excerpt of the story even received national attention:\n\"Charlotte, N.C., March 25 (AP) - Pete, a thirty-foot python, had a late luncheon today - six months late. Pythons, Harry Lewiston, keeper of the reptile, explained, eat only about once every three months. Pete hurt his throat nine months ago and had to pass up two meals. Today, with an eight-foot rubber hose, he was fed a snack of thirty pounds of chopped meat, fifteen dozen eggs and fifteen pounds of crushed bone. It took eighteen men to hold Pete while they fed him.\"\n\nWhile Rose ran her \"Palace of Knowledge\" at the New York World's Fair in 1939 and 1940, Lewiston continued to bring his museum on tour, traveling with organizations including truck carnival William Glick Shows and Johnny J. Jones Carnival. He ran an enlarged side show, including his snakes, plus a freak animal show. While traveling with Jones in Warren, Pennsylvania during the summer of 1940, Lewiston's sword swallower Lady Vivian Dunning was profiled in the local paper. Lewiston also claims to have been the first showman to buy and repurpose the \"headless girl\" display, transforming it from a simple illusion act to fooling audiences by pretending she was real. He rigged the exhibit with flowing liquids and medical equipment, and created the story of \"Olga Hess,\" who had been decapitated on a train but was kept alive by a doctor.\nThroughout the early to mid-1940s, the Museum continued to perform successfully, typically contracting with amusement parks and state fairs during the summers and touring during the winters. In 1941, Harry Lewiston's Traveling Museum joined the Happy Land Shows for summer events in Michigan. Later that season, they performed at the Cambria County Fair in Ebensburg, Pennsylvania. He notes in his autobiography that due to the lewd nature of part of the show, he was sentenced to nine months jail in Eastern State Penitentiary, as were several hoochie coochie girls, though they were all released after six days. In 1942, while the Museum was in Erie, Pennsylvania, Harry Lewiston's performing \"stone man\" Charles Porter visited a famous local resident also suffering from the disease (likely \"Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva\"), and they were profiled in the local paper.\nIn 1944, while the Museum was installed for a month in Pittsburgh, the two legal guardians of Bobo and Kiki, the show's \"pinheads,\" arrived to take the pair back home to Texas. After Rose objected that their contract had not yet expired, a fight broke out, and a local patrolman arrested all five of them. Charges were later dismissed, and the pinheads stayed on with the show. In late 1945, he formed a partnership called Gayer & Lewiston Enterprises with Archie Gayer, operator of Archie's Playland Arcade in Detroit. They co-ran the Monroe Theatre, and a new annex was added to the back of the arcade, where Lewiston managed a variety of attractions for several years, including an exhibit titled \"Crime Does Not Pay,\" bazaars, and sideshow acts.\nIn 1947, while working for Lewiston over July 4 weekend, sword swallower Tony Marino \"gulped a two-foot length of lighted neon tube, glowed at his appreciative audience, bowed, thereupon went out like a light, [and] was hustled to a hospital for removal of the shattered tube.\" After two weeks of recuperation, including treatment with a stomach pump, milk of magnesia, and oatmeal, Marino continued performing with Lewiston's Museum. In 1950, Lewiston ran sideshows at Edgewater Park, Eastwood Park, and Jefferson Beach in Detroit, the first time that any single show operator had attractions at all three parks at once. In 1951, he leased sideshow and concert operation rights from Mills Bros. for their 32-week season. He noted in his autobiography that he was bitten in the face by a South American boa constrictor during this time.\n\nIn the early 1950s, Harry (now calling himself \"Jaffe\" again) and Rose retired from performance and management life, and moved to Florida, where they invested in several hotel properties. Rose died from cancer in April 1954, and was buried in Cook County, Illinois. In December 1955, he married a woman named Leona Decker in Monroe County, Florida.\n\nIn 1957, the couple moved to the Los Angeles area. Harry's health, especially his eyesight, had deteriorated badly. In his autobiography, he speculates that this might have been due to his heavy drinking. They invested in several properties, and a local daily newspaper ran a profile article of the famous circus man who had bought a hotel. He began writing a weekly column for a paper in Fontana, California. Concurrently, he started an employment agency, and also worked to help recent parolees reintegrate into society. His service was lauded by the state board of corrections at a testimonial dinner.\n\nAs his health waned, he began working on his memoirs. \"Freak Show Man: the Autobiography of Harry Lewiston, as told to Jerry Holtman\", was published posthumously in 1968 by Holloway House Publishing Co.\n\nHarry Jaffe died on June 1, 1965 in San Bernardino County.\n\n"}
{"id": "32980869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32980869", "title": "Jacques Genin", "text": "Jacques Genin\n\nJacques Génin is a French chef, cookery book writer, and well-known chocolate and caramel maker in Paris.\n\nHe supplies chocolates, caramels and petits fours to more than 200 top French hotels and restaurants, including the Hôtel de Crillon, the Plaza Athénée and Le Meurice. His chocolate factory has been described by the New York Times as \"a holy site for connoisseurs,\" and in 2008, he opened a shop selling to the public in the Marais neighbourhood of Paris. \n\nGenin is not a qualified maître chocolatier under the French system, but is self-taught, and has described himself as a rebel. He began his career in food in a slaughterhouse, opened his first restaurant when he was 28, and at age 33 worked as head pâtissier at the global chocolate company La Maison du Chocolat. In 2010, he was named one of the top French chocolatiers by the Club des Croqueurs de Chocolat.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "40611968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40611968", "title": "Jayme Garfinkel", "text": "Jayme Garfinkel\n\nJayme Brasil Garfinkel is a Brazilian investor and Chairman of the Board of Porto Seguro Seguros, the third largest insurance company in Brazil.\n\nGarfinkel was born to a Jewish family, the son of Rosa and Abrahão Garfinkel. He received a degree in Civil Engineering from the Polytechnic School of the University of São Paulo in 1970 and completed graduate studies in Business Administration at Getúlio Vargas College in 1975. He joined Porto Seguro in 1972 as an Assistant Executive Officer, assuming the role of Executive Officer Vice President of Porto Seguro in 1978. Currently, he is Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer of Porto Seguro, Porto Seguro Vida, Azul Seguros and Porto Seguro Saúde.\n\nGarfinkel was a member of CNSP from 1987 until 1991, and was President of the Syndicate of Private Insurance and Capitalization Companies of the State of São Paulo from 1989 to 1990. Currently, he is a member of the Fenaseg's Consulting Committee (Federação Nacional de Seguros Gerais).\n\nGarfinkel is the 868th richest person in the world, according to Forbes Magazine, and 15th richest in Brazil. Although raised in a Jewish family, he considers himself an agnostic.\n"}
{"id": "794889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794889", "title": "Jean Kane Foulke du Pont", "text": "Jean Kane Foulke du Pont\n\nJean Kane Foulke du Pont (May 21, 1891–November 6, 1985) was an American suffragette, prison reform activist and philanthropist.\n\nFoulke du Pont was born in Lenape, Pennsylvania to parents George Rhyfedd Foulke and Jean Kane Foulke. She was the granddaughter of William Foulke, who discovered the first full dinosaur skeleton in North America (\"Hadrosaurus foulkii\"), in Haddonfield, New Jersey, in 1858. \n\nShe grew up in Philadelphia and attended the Misses Hebb's School in Wilmington, Delaware. She married industrialist Éleuthère Paul du Pont on June 9, 1910. Her husband was a member of the prominent Du Pont family and the founder of Du Pont Motors. They had six sons: ; Éleuthère Paul, Jr. (1911); Francis George (1913); Stephen (1915); Robert Jacques (1923);Benjamin Bonneau (1919), and Alexis Irénée (1928). Their son Stephen, an aviation enthusiast, was inducted into the Soaring Hall of Fame in 1987.\n\nFoulke du Pont was a progressive woman for her era, and her passion was prison reform; in 1919 she helped found The Prisoners' Aid Society of Delaware as well as Bridge House, a detention home for juvenile offenders in the Browntown section of Wilmington, that was open until 1989.\n\nFoulke du Pont was exceedingly active in the women's suffrage movement; in 1916 she picketed the White House with a troop of Delaware women in an effort to persuade President Woodrow Wilson to become active in the cause. \n\nDuring World War I, Foulke du Pont was a leader in the Women's Auxiliary for the Delaware Committee, as well as the Council of National Defense. She was also responsible for several \"Save the Babies\" stations, which resulted in Delaware's \"Pure Milk Legislation\" intended to protect milk sold for babies, and also led to child welfare programs in Delaware. Foulke du Pont also played an important role in the creation of Delaware's present Family Court. There is a plaque in her honor at the Family Court in Wilmington, dedicated in 1963.\n\nIn 1964, she contacted the University of Delaware seeking a training and educational program for the Delaware's correctional workers, to benefit those \"working in probation, parole, family court, and youth services, as well as the guards in state prisons.\" She created a $400,000 endowment (equivalent of $3 million in 2014) in honor of her husband, the \"E. Paul du Pont Endowment for the Study of Crime, Delinquency, and Corrections,\" if the university agreed to train the correctional personnel. She also donated a 10-year grant to encourage the university faculty to study prison reform and prisoner rehabilitation issues through the sociology department. This eventually led to the university's criminal justice program. She also made additional yearly donations to the sociology department to study social welfare.\n"}
{"id": "1722517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1722517", "title": "Jeffrey Cheah", "text": "Jeffrey Cheah\n\nTan Sri Dato' Seri Dr. Jeffrey Cheah Fook Ling (Hakka Chinese: ) is the founder and current chairman of the Sunway Group, a Malaysian conglomerate operating in 12 industries with core businesses in property and construction. Jeffrey Cheah is Foundation Chancellor of Sunway University in Malaysia. He is also a Founding Trustee of the Jeffrey Cheah Foundation.\n\nCheah is the recipient of 10 honorary doctorates, most of which in recognition of his outstanding contribution towards education.\n\nJeffrey Cheah moved to Australia to pursue a business degree at Victoria University (then Footscray Institute of Technology) in Melbourne and after graduating, returned to Malaysia to take a job as an accountant in a motor assembly plant. He soon left this employment, and in 1974, he started his own company, a small tin-mining company with a startup capital of RM100,000. Today, Sunway Group is one of Malaysia's most formidable property-construction conglomerate.\n\nThe Sunway Group grew from a gradual conglomeration of Jeffrey Cheah's business interests. At its heart is the development Bandar Sunway, in the Petaling district of the state of Selangor. This derelict mining estate was 'resurrected' as a new township, twenty minutes' drive from the centre of Kuala Lumpur, focused around the Sunway Lagoon theme park and the Sunway Pyramid shopping mall, both of which are Sunway Group holdings. Cheah's investment in Malaysian higher education is represented by the two universities of Bandar Sunway: the Malaysian campus of the Australian Monash University and the local Sunway University. The rehabilitation and transformation of the landscape has won the township international awards, including being recognised as Malaysia's first fully integrated green township as certified by the Green Building Index (GBI) of Malaysia. The township, Sunway City (formerly known as Sunway Resort City) also clinched the Low Carbon City award from the Malaysian Institute of Planners for implementing low carbon initiatives within the township.\n\nIn 1987, Jeffrey Cheah established Sunway College in Bandar Sunway as a private tertiary educational institute. A major phase in the college's early development was its partnership with Monash University in Melbourne, Australia. The partnership allowed Malaysian students to pursue a preparatory year at Sunway College before being admitted to study at Monash. In 1997, the college has proved financially viable, and Cheah transferred ownership to the Sunway Educational Trust Fund (which was later renamed the Jeffrey Cheah Foundation). This move paved the way for the Monash partnership to take the next step. In 1998, the Monash University Malaysia Campus was opened in Bandar Sunway, in partnership with the trust fund. On 12 August 2004, the Minister for Education granted the institution the status of a university college. In 2006, the Sultan of Selangor installed Jeffrey Cheah as Foundation Chancellor of the university college. In appreciation of his contribution to Monash University Malaysia Campus, the Monash University School of Medicine was named after him in 2007. In January 2011, the institution was further upgraded to a fully independent university.\n\nUnder Jeffrey Cheah's leadership, the Sunway Safe City Initiative was implemented. This initiative, which was launched in 2001, has proven extremely effective in combating crime. A partnership between the Royal Malaysia Police, Malaysia Crime Prevention Foundation (MCPF), the Selangor State Government and the Sunway Group, it has reduced the crime rate and infused the township with a spirit of togetherness and neighbourliness that now serves as an example for other residents' association throughout Selangor. In recognition of Tan Sri Jeffrey's meritorious contribution in the field of social safety and security, he was appointed the Chairman of MCPF Selangor Chapter by the Minister of Unity, Culture, Arts & Heritage in Aug 2008.\n\nOn 8 March 1988, the Sultan of Selangor made Jeffrey Cheah a Knight Commander of the Crown of Selangor (, DPMS), which entitles its holder to the title Dato'.\n\nIn 1995, Jeffrey Cheah was made a Justice of the Peace (JP) by the Sultan of Terengganu. The appointment is purely honorary.\n\nIn April 1996, the Sultan of Perak, Jeffrey Cheah's home state, made him a Knight Grand Commander of the Crown of Perak (, SPMP), which entitles its holder to the title Dato' Seri.\n\nOn 1 June 1996, Yang di-Pertuan Agong (the 'King of Malaysia') awarded Cheah Commander of the Order of Loyalty of the Crown of Malaysia (, PSM), which entitles its holder to the title Tan Sri.\n\nOn 10 July 2008, Jeffrey Cheah was made an Honorary Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) for \"service to Australia–Malaysia bilateral relations, particularly tertiary education through the development of collaborative student transfer programs and the establishment of a Monash University campus in Malaysia\".\n\nJeffrey Cheah has been awarded the following ten honorary doctorates, by universities in Australia, the United States, United Kingdom and Malaysia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34705446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34705446", "title": "Jeremy Levin", "text": "Jeremy Levin\n\nJeremy Levin (born 1954) is a South African-born businessman, medical doctor and research scientist. Levin has been recognised for his accomplishments in the biopharmaceutical industry, being named one of the most influential people in the industry.\n\nLevin is the chairman and CEO of Ovid Therapeutics Inc., a company dedicated to providing innovative medicines to children and adults with neurological disorders. Ovid’s initial product development programs are focused on orphan and rare diseases of the brain, including Angelman syndrome and Fragile X syndrome.\n\nPrior to joining Ovid, Levin served as President and CEO of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (NYSE:TEVA), one of the world’s largest pharmaceutical companies. Previously, he was a member of the Executive Committee of Bristol-Myers Squibb (NYSE:BMY), where he had global responsibilities for strategy, alliances and transactions. In this role, he devised and led BMY’s “String of Pearls” business development strategy. This strategy helped drive the transformation of BMY, particularly following the acquisition by Levin of Medarex Inc. in July 2009, which positioned BMY as a leader in immunooncology. Prior to this, Levin was Head of Global Business Development and Strategic Alliances at Novartis (NYSE: NVS), and previously served as chairman and CEO of Cadus Pharmaceuticals, Inc.\n\nLevin currently serves on the Boards of Biocon LTD and ZappRx. Levin is a frequent speaker at biopharmaceutical conferences where his focus is driving deeper and more direct relationships between companies and patients, ensuring innovation in the biopharmaceutical industry, expanding the role of mergers and acquisitions, globalising the biopharmaceutical industry, and propelling interface of the digital health and biopharmaceutical industries and leadership.\n\nLevin was born in South Africa, where his family had a farm, De Hoek Farm, in Piketberg, Western Cape. Following the Sharpeville massacre, he left South Africa and moved to live in Salisbury, Rhodesia (now Harare, Zimbabwe). His father was a political journalist, who in 1965, was given a day to leave the country. Levin, his mother and brother followed some time later eventually settling in London England where he completed his undergraduate, graduate and medical degrees. Prior to his business experience Levin practised medicine, working at university hospitals including the Hammersmith Hospital in London, Groote Schuur in Cape Town, South Africa and Hôpitaux universitaires de Genève, Geneva, Switzerland. Levin, who lives in the USA, has previously lived in South Africa, Zimbabwe, Great Britain, Switzerland and Israel. In 1986, Levin came to America and where he has worked in the biopharmaceutical industry in progressively senior positions.\n\nLevin was educated first in South Africa and then Rhodesia (Zimbabwe). As a teenager, his family moved to London, where he attended Holland Park School. Following graduating from high school, Levin went to Wadham College, University of Oxford, where he gained a First Class BA Honors degree in Zoology, and a Masters of Arts (MA) and doctorate (DPhil) in cell biology and chromatin structure from the Oxford University's Sir William Dunn School of Pathology. He subsequently received an MB, BChir degree (Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery) from the University of Cambridge.\n\nLevin married Margery Feldberg (daughter of Stanley Feldberg, co-founder of TJX Companies) in 1987 and has two daughters. He is the brother of David Levin, CEO of McGraw-Hill Education. He is also the brother of Michal Levin. Levin's mother, Leah Levin OBE, is Hon. Doctor of the University of Essex. She served on the board of the United Nations Association, Anti-Slavery and International Alert, and was Director of JUSTICE from 1982 to 1992. Ms. Levin also served on Boards of Redress, Readers International, and the International Journal of Human Rights.She is the author of UNESCO’s \"Human Rights: Questions and Answers,\" one the world’s widely disseminated books on human rights.\n\nLevin is the recipient of a number of awards, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "3442100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3442100", "title": "Key person insurance", "text": "Key person insurance\n\nKey person insurance, also commonly called keyman insurance and key man insurance or 'key employee insurance', is an important form of business insurance. There is no legal definition of \"key person insurance\". In general, it can be described as an insurance policy taken out by a business to compensate that business for financial losses that would arise from the death or extended incapacity of an important member of the business. To put it simply, key person insurance is a standard life insurance or trauma insurance policy that is used for business succession or business protection purposes. The policy's term does not extend beyond the period of the key person’s usefulness to the business. Key person policies are usually owned by the business and the aim is to compensate the business for losses incurred with the loss of a key income generator and facilitate business continuity. Key person insurance does not indemnify the actual losses incurred but compensates with a fixed monetary sum as specified in the insurance policy.\n\nMany businesses have a key person who is responsible for the majority of profits or has a unique and hard to replace skill set such as Intellectual Property that is vital to the organisation. An employer may take out a key person insurance policy on the life or health of any employee whose knowledge, work, or overall contribution is considered uniquely valuable to the company. The employer does this to offset the costs (such as hiring temporary help or recruiting a successor) and losses (such as a decreased ability to transact business until successors are trained) which the employer is likely to suffer in the event of the loss of a key person.\n\nThere are four categories of loss for which key person insurance can provide compensation:\n\n\nKey people are individuals whose skills, knowledge, experience or leadership are important to a business’ continued financial success. Should something happen to one of these individuals it is likely that their loss will have a detrimental impact on the profitability of the business and will cause financial strain. Examples of a key individual include, but are not limited to: company directors, sales directors, IT specialist, managing directors and heads of product development.\n\nDeciding on the sum of money to ensure the key person is dependent on the company and the reason for insuring that individual. It can be to cover a loan or investment amount, or it can be dependent on working out the worth of the person to the company. It is recommended that you think about potential loss of profits, the cost of replacement and any debts that would need to be covered to keep the company running without that person.\n\nLoss of profits can be caused as a result of the loss of company reputation, the loss of clients or a decline in sales. For example, if a key sales manager had built up a relationship with key clients, they may no longer want to work with the business if that key person were no longer around. This can cause them to go elsewhere and cause a dip in sales figures. In addition to this, the cost of training, recruitment and temporary cover to find a replacement can be high. This also needs to be factored into the amount of cover that is taken out. The company would need to consider how they would be impacted as a result of a loss of a key person in different ways to determine how much that individual is worth.\n\nKey person insurance policies can be owned in a number of ways depending on the needs of the business. It is common for a business to own the policy with claim proceeds being paid directly to the business. There is no legislative or insurable requirement for a policy to be owned by a specific party or entity and there may be circumstances be it for taxation or policy continuation purposes where policies may be owned and paid for by the insured person directly or owned by another individual.\n\n\n\nThe tax treatment for premiums paid for key person insurance and the treatment of monies received from a claim vary among countries.\n\nPremiums are generally not tax deductible in the U.S. Under the COLI Best Practices Act within the Pension Protection Act of 2006, key person insurance proceeds for policies owned by employers can be taxable if certain conditions are not met.\n\nIn Australia, Key person insurance policies are generally not deductible unless used specifically for business revenue protection purposes. Claim proceeds in Australia if used for revenue purposes may be taxable and depending on the ownership of the policy, may trigger a Capital Gains Taxation Event. In the UK the main principles of key person insurance taxation were outlined by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1944, Sir John Anderson. The \"Andersen Rules\" state \"Treatment for taxation purposes would depend upon the facts of the particular case and it rests with the assessing authorities and the Commissioners on appeal, if necessary, to determine the liability by reference to these facts. I am, however, advised that the general practice in dealing with insurances on the lives of employees is to treat the premiums as admissible deductions, and any sums received under a policy as trading receipts, if (i) the sole relationship is that of employer and employee; (ii) the insurance is intended to meet loss of profit resulting from the loss of services of the employee; and (iii) it is an annual or short-term insurance. Cases of premiums paid by companies to insure the lives of Directors are dealt with on similar lines.\"\n\nUK taxation for key man insurance is normally taken from the guidance set out by the then Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1944. In answer to a parliamentary question Sir John Anderson made the following statement:\n“Treatment for taxation purposes would depend upon the facts of the particular case and it rests with the assessing authorities and the Commissioners on appeal, if necessary, to determine the liability by reference to these facts. I am, however, advised that the general practice in dealing with insurances on the lives of employees is to treat the premiums as admissible deductions, and any sums received under a policy as trading receipts, if (i) the sole relationship is that of employer and employee; (ii) the insurance is intended to meet loss of profit resulting from the loss of services of the employee; and (iii) it is an annual or short-term insurance. Cases of premiums paid by companies to insure the lives of Directors are dealt with on similar lines.” \n\nThe UK tax office, HMRC, has the view that key man insurance is tax-efficient if it is taken out 'solely for the purposes of the business'. Specifically, if the company takes out a key man insurance policy to protect the business from any loss of profits that have stemmed from the loss of the employee, then the premiums are not taxable. If a key employee has a substantial number of shares, then the key man insurance could potentially be seen as being taken out for their own interests, instead of the business. This is particularly the case if critical illness cover is added to the policy. Essentially, key man insurance can be tax-efficient, but it is always best to check with a financial advisor or the local tax office before making assumptions. \n"}
{"id": "40331487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40331487", "title": "KlickEx", "text": "KlickEx\n\nKlickEx is a Polynesian payments system for low value electronic foreign exchange transactions using an interbank smart market retail system. It provides low cost electronic foreign exchange clearing services to clients in the Pacific Islands avoiding the usual foreign transfer fees and spreads by matching up individuals sending payments to and from the islands.\n\nPayments can be made between the Pacific Islands and Australia, New Zealand and Europe. The system also allows users to transfer directly to mobile wallets, and Bank accounts.\n\nThe system is an electronic alternative to informal Hawala systems, traditional international bank transfers and older remittance networks where the minimum transfer fees would often make it uneconomical to send low value payments that are typical for migrant workers and relatives of the island communities.\n\nThe company has won a number of awards and support from NZ government development agencies for providing a service that enables rapid low value payments Foreign Exchange a lower cost, and reaching a much larger number of impoverished (but vibrant) communities in the South Pacific islands.\n\nThe company name is derived from the title: \"The Klick Exchange Trading Company\". The company was resident of the ICE-house incubator innovation centre in Auckland.\n\nThe KlickEx system is based on trading technology that has been operational since 2002.\n\nThrough a regional partnership with the United Nations Development Program, and the Australian and New Zealand Governments in 2011; KlickEx continued to build services and by providing the platform for Mobile Carriers (MNO) to integrate mobile wallet platforms into the established banking system; thereby accelerating the penetration of financial services to the unbanked in the Pacific, particularly focusing on Rural communities, and financial inclusion for women in developing economies.\n\nIn 2012 the company was a finalist for several New Zealand Hi-Tech Awards, in several categories including Ministry of Science and Innovation Start-up of the Year, Best New Software, Best New Service (2012).\n\nIn 2013 the company won several international awards, including The Financial World Innovation Awards and SWIFT's Innotribe Award (see below for results).\n\nThe company has three core divisions: A retail operation, providing payment services in the South Pacific, www.KlickEx.com, an Institutional operation, connecting smaller banks to regional and world-wide clearing networks, VOSnet www.KlickEx.net, and NGO/Development operations, providing regulators and government agencies with statistical and compliance solutions, www.KlickEx.org.\n\nThe company provides three core products to participants:\n\nKlickEx operates a straight-through processing settlement system that enables individuals and partnership banks to gain access to cross-border foreign currency clearing facilities and rapid settlement between accounts, delivering cleared funds across currencies in seconds. The system micro-manages standing orders for foreign exchange as little as NZ$1.00. With retail clients in New Zealand, Australia, Tonga and Samoa having immediate access following a short approval and Anti-money laundering process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21536356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21536356", "title": "List of production functions", "text": "List of production functions\n\nThis is a list of production functions that have been used in the economics literature. Production functions are a key part of modelling national output and national income.\n\nThe production functions listed below, and their properties are shown for the case of two factors of production, capital (K), and labor (L), mostly for heuristic purposes. These functions and their properties are easily generalizable to include additional factors of production (like land, natural resources, entrepreneurship, etc.)\n\nThere are three common ways to incorporate technology (or the efficiency with which factors of production are used) into a production function (here \"A\" is a scale factor, \"F\" is a production function, and \"Y\" is the amount of physical output produced):\n\nThe elasticity of substitution between factors of production is a measure of how easily one factor can be substituted for another. With two factors of production, say, \"K\" and \"L\", it is a measure of the curvature of a production isoquant. The mathematical definition is:\n\nwhere \"slope\" denotes the slope of the isoquant, given by\n\nReturns to scale can be\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10853635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10853635", "title": "Lucinda Franks", "text": "Lucinda Franks\n\nLucinda Franks (born July 16, 1946) is a former staff writer for \"The New York Times\", and she has written for \"The New Yorker\", \"The New York Times Magazine\", and \"The Atlantic\". \n\nShe is also a winner of the Pulitzer Prize, for her reporting on the life and death of Diana Oughton, a member of The Weathermen, an anti-Vietnam war terrorist group, winning the Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting in 1971, together with Thomas Powers.\n\nShe is the youngest person to win a Pulitzer.\n\nFranks was raised in a Christian family, the daughter of Lorraine and Tom Franks. She was raised in Wellesley, Massachusetts. In 1968, she graduated from Vassar College; after school, she moved to London, where she reported for United Press International. In 1973, she was transferred to New York City. Franks discovered that her father had been a secret agent during World War II, and wrote a book about it, \"My Father's Secret War: A Memoir,\" in 2007. Her second memoir is about her marriage: \"Timeless: Love, Morgenthau, and Me\" (2014).\n\nIn 1977, she married former longtime district attorney for New York County, Robert M. Morgenthau, a widower and member of the Lehman family. They have two children: Joshua (born 1984) and Amy (born 1990). They live in New York City.\n\nIn 1979, the Supersisters trading card set was produced and distributed; one of the cards featured Franks's name and picture.\n\n"}
{"id": "53504681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53504681", "title": "Mary Elmes", "text": "Mary Elmes\n\nMarie Elisabeth Jean Elmes (5 May 1908 – 9 March 2002) was an Irish businesswoman and aid worker credited with saving the lives of at least 200 Jewish children during the Holocaust, by hiding them in the boot of her car. In 2015, she became the first and only Irish person honoured as Righteous Among the Nations by the State of Israel, in recognition of her work in the Spanish Civil War and World War II.\n\nElmes was born on 5 May 1908 in Cork, Ireland to chemist Edward Elmes and Elizabeth (née Waters). Edward Elmes was originally from Waterford, and moved to Cork after qualifying as a pharmacist, to run a pharmacy on Winthrop Street, while Waters grew up in Cork. She had one brother, John, who later took over the family business.\n\nElmes attended Rochelle School in Cork and then in 1928 enrolled at Trinity College, Dublin where she was elected a Scholar, and gained a first in Modern Literature (French and Spanish). In 1935, as a result of her academic achievements, Elmes was awarded a scholarship in International Studies to study at London School of Economics. She received a certificate in International Studies as well as a further scholarship to continue her education in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nIn February 1937, after the completion of her studies, Elmes joined the University of London Ambulance Unit and was sent to a children's hospital in Almeria in then war-torn Spain.\n\nIn January (or February) 1943, Elmes was arrested on suspicion of aiding the escape of Jews and was imprisoned in Toulouse, later being moved to the notorious Fresnes Prison near Paris, where she spent six months.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19989008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19989008", "title": "Mediaweek", "text": "Mediaweek\n\nMediaweek was a New York–based trade magazine owned by e5 Global Media. It is part of Adweek Media Group, which in October 2008 announced the merging of its three separate editorial teams (\"Adweek\", \"Brandweek\" and Mediaweek) into one. In 2011, \"Mediaweek\" and \"Brandweek\" were merged into Adweek.\n\nThe chief editor was Michael Burgi. \"Mediaweek\" was founded in January 1991 by BPI Publications, parent company of \"Billboard\". The founding editors were Craig Reiss and Bill Gloede. Reiss became the editor-in-chief of parent Adweek Magazines in April of that year. Gloede became editor and remained until 2002, at which time Brian Moran, the magazine's former executive editor, moved up to editor. He was succeeded by Burgi in 2004. The magazine was initially focused on the media buying and selling communities but in 1993–94 was expanded to cover all aspects of media. Circulation was roughly half paid (the media), and half controlled (to the advertising buying community), with a total of approximately 22,000 subscribers. A two-person Washington D.C. bureau was established in 1994 and a four-person bureau was opened in Los Angeles to cover the television production studios. Ten reporters and editors were based in the New York headquarters. Until the middle 2000s, each weekly edition of the magazine featured the \"Media Person\" column by Lewis Grossberger, which began its life in \"7 Days\" magazine, which was printed at the time by the publisher of the \"Village Voice\" in order to compete against \"New York Magazine\".\n"}
{"id": "54966650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54966650", "title": "Meir Shamir", "text": "Meir Shamir\n\nMeir Shamir is an Israeli businessman, he is currently the chief executive officer and main shareholder of Mivtach Shamir Holdings Ltd. Shamir is an active philanthropist and since 2012, has served as the Head of \"Taglit Israel\" (Birthright Israel).\n\nShamir was born in 1951 in Kibbutz Be’erot Yitzhak and relocated to Petah Tikva with his family upon turning five years old, where he was later raised and educated. In 1969, Shamir joined the Israel Defence Forces (IDF) as a Navigator in the 69 Squadron (\"Hammers\") of the Israeli Air Force, and took part in the Yom Kippur War. After completing his military service, he pursued a BA in Management, Business Administration and Economics from Bar-Ilan University.\n\nShamir began working as an Insurance Agent at Mivtach, a subsidiary of the Sahar Insurance Group. In 1981, at the age of 30, Shamir purchased 50% of the company's shares and changed its name to Mivtach Shamir Holdings Ltd. In 1992 Shamir went on to purchase the remaining shares of the company, thus becoming its sole owner and director. In the following years, Shamir sold the company's insurance business, turning it into an internationally active Israel-based investment company that invests mainly in technology and communications, real estate and industrial companies.\n\nUnder Shamir's leadership the company's market value in the stock exchange grew from 20 million NIS (approx. $5.6 million) in 1992 to 830 million NIS (approx. $230 million) by Jun/2017.\n\nMivtach Shamir is a diverse and active company in Israel and around the world, investing in the fields of technology and communications, income-producing real estate and venture capital, with a special focus on medical, biotechnology and biotechnology companies. Some of the companies in which Mivtach Shamir has invested in include; Tnuva Food Corporation, Alony-Hetz, Gilat Satellite Networks, Teldor/Eldor, Solbar and Scitex, as well as the high-tech company Lipman Electronics (now VeriFone Israel), which deals with clearing and securing online money transfers.\n\nShamir himself, serves on the boards of several of the companies controlled by Mivtach Shamir.\n\nIn 2007 Mivtach Shamir invested $15 million in TVJ (Tower Vision Jersey), an Indian company. Two months later Mivtach Real Estate, which is a subsidiary of Mivtach Shamir, invested $13 million in commercial property and land in Chennai, India as part of an investment group that put $30 million into the development project. The aim of the investment was to build offices, hotels, commercial centers and other complexes over 2.25 million sqm of the city. According to the signed agreement, in exchange for their investment, Mivtach would receive 32% of the project's shares.\n\nIn 2015, Shamir's company invested $7 million in a promising information security start-up named Nyotron. Mivtach Shamir also held a 21% stake in the Israeli Tnuva Group, and played a crucial part in its acquisition by Brightfood China in 2015, a deal which earned Mivtach Shamir €252 million.\n\nShamir supports summer camps and day-care centres for underprivileged children and youths in the Israeli periphery.\n\nIn 2009 he received an honorary doctorate from the Bar Ilan University \"in recognition of his pivotal role in Israel's business sector…and his generous support of underprivileged university students.\" He has served on the university's Board of Trustees since 2005, contributed to the Bible Studies Department and funded student scholarships.\n\nShamir has been Head of the Presidency of Taglit Israel since 2012.\n\nIn 2015 Mivtach Shamir donated a state-of-the-art ambulance to the ZAKA emergency response teams in Petah Tikva.\n\nThe company has sponsored several IDF units and battalions and funded their recreational activities as part of the Association for the Wellbeing of Israel's Soldiers (AWIS) Adoption project – Ametz Lohem (adopt a soldier).\n\nMeir Shamir was the owner of the football club Hapoel Petah Tikva, sold the stadium and disappeared with the money.\nhttps://www.haaretz.co.il/sport/israel-soccer/1.2595130\n\nMeir Shamir is married to professor Adina Shamir of the Bar Ilan University. They have three children.\n\nHis personal net worth is estimated at $150 million.\n"}
{"id": "36803423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36803423", "title": "Mohamed Abbou (Moroccan politician)", "text": "Mohamed Abbou (Moroccan politician)\n\nMohamed Abbou ( – born 1 January 1959, Bni-Oulid near Taounate) is a Moroccan politician of the National Rally of Independents. Between 2007 and 2010, he held the position of Minister-Delegate for Public Service and the Modernization of the Administration in the cabinet of Abbas El Fassi. He was dismissed from this position because of a feud with the \"Wali\" (governor) of Taza-Al Hoceima-Taounate.\n\n"}
{"id": "46174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46174", "title": "National Institutes of Health", "text": "National Institutes of Health\n\nThe National Institutes of Health (NIH) (; each letter separately) is the primary agency of the United States government responsible for biomedical and public health research. It was founded in the late 1870s and is now part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The majority of NIH facilities are located in Bethesda, Maryland. The NIH conducts its own scientific research through its Intramural Research Program (IRP) and provides major biomedical research funding to non-NIH research facilities through its Extramural Research Program.\n\n, the IRP had 1,200 principal investigators and more than 4,000 postdoctoral fellows in basic, translational, and clinical research, being the largest biomedical research institution in the world, while, as of 2003, the extramural arm provided 28% of biomedical research funding spent annually in the U.S., or about US$26.4 billion.\n\nThe NIH comprises 27 separate institutes and centers of different biomedical disciplines and is responsible for many scientific accomplishments, including the discovery of fluoride to prevent tooth decay, the use of lithium to manage bipolar disorder, and the creation of vaccines against hepatitis, \"Haemophilus influenzae\" (HIB), and human papillomavirus (HPV).\n\nNIH's roots extend back to the Marine Hospital Service in the late 1790s that provided medical relief to sick and disabled men in the U.S. Navy. By 1870, a network of marine hospitals had developed and was placed under the charge of a medical officer within the Bureau of the Treasury Department. In the late 1870s, Congress allocated funds to investigate the causes of epidemics like cholera and yellow fever, and it created the National Board of Health, making medical research an official government initiative.\nIn 1887, a laboratory for the study of bacteria, the Hygienic Laboratory, was established at the Marine Hospital in New York. In the early 1900s, Congress began appropriating funds for the Marine Hospital Service. By 1922, this organization changed its name to Public Health Services and established a Special Cancer Investigations laboratory at Harvard Medical School. This marked the beginning of a partnership with universities. In 1930, the Hygienic Laboratory was re-designated as the National Institute of Health by the Ransdell Act, and was given $750,000 to construct two NIH buildings. Over the next few decades, Congress would increase funding tremendously to the NIH, and various institutes and centers within the NIH were created for specific research programs. In 1944, the Public Health Service Act was approved, and the National Cancer Institute became a division of NIH. In 1948, the name changed from National Institute of Health to National Institutes of Health.\n\nIn the 1960s, virologist and cancer researcher Chester M. Southam injected HeLa cancer cells into patients at the Jewish Chronic Disease Hospital. When three doctors resigned after refusing to inject patients without their consent, the experiment gained considerable media attention. The NIH was a major source of funding for Southam’s research and had required all research involving human subjects to obtain their consent prior to any experimentation. Upon investigating all of their grantee institutions, the NIH discovered that the majority of them did not protect the rights of human subjects. From then on, the NIH has required all grantee institutions to approve any research proposals involving human experimentation with review boards.\n\nIn 1967, the Division of Regional Medical Programs was created to administer grants for research for heart disease, cancer, and strokes. That same year, the NIH director lobbied the White House for increased federal funding in order to increase research and the speed with which health benefits could be brought to the people. An advisory committee was formed to oversee further development of the NIH and its research programs. By 1971 cancer research was in full force and President Nixon signed the National Cancer Act, initiating a National Cancer Program, President's Cancer Panel, National Cancer Advisory Board, and 15 new research, training, and demonstration centers.\n\nFunding for the NIH has often been a source of contention in Congress, serving as a proxy for the political currents of the time. In 1992, the NIH encompassed nearly 1 percent of the federal government's operating budget and controlled more than 50 percent of all funding for health research, and 85 percent of all funding for health studies in universities. While government funding for research in other disciplines has been increasing at a rate similar to inflation since the 1970s, research funding for the NIH nearly tripled through the 1990s and early 2000s, but has remained relatively stagnant since then.\n\nBy the 1990s, the NIH committee focus had shifted to DNA research, and launched the Human Genome Project.\n\n\nIntramural research is primarily conducted at the main campus in Bethesda, Maryland and Rockville, Maryland, and the surrounding communities.\n\nThe Bayview Campus in Baltimore, Maryland houses the research programs of the National Institute on Aging, National Institute on Drug Abuse, and National Human Genome Research Institute with nearly 1,000 scientists and support staff. The Frederick National Laboratory in Frederick, MD and the nearby Riverside Research Park, houses many components of the National Cancer Institute, including the Center for Cancer Research, Office of Scientific Operations, Management Operations Support Branch, the division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics and the division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis.\n\nThe National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences is located in the Research Triangle region of North Carolina.\n\nOther ICs have satellite locations in addition to operations at the main campus. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases maintains its Rocky Mountain Labs in Hamilton, Montana, with an emphasis on BSL3 and BSL4 laboratory work. NIDKK operates the Phoenix Epidemiology and Clinical Research Branch in Phoenix, AZ.\n\nAs of 2017, 153 scientists receiving financial support from the NIH have been awarded a Nobel Prize and 195 have been awarded a Lasker Award.\n\nNIH devotes 10% of its funding to research within its own facilities (intramural research). The institution gives 80% of its funding in research grants to extramural (outside) researchers. Of this extramural funding, a certain percentage (2.8% in 2014) must be granted to small businesses under the SBIR/STTR program. The extramural funding consists of about 50,000 grants to more than 325,000 researchers at more than 3000 institutions. , NIH spent (not including temporary funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009) on clinical research, on genetics-related research, on prevention research, on cancer, and on biotechnology.\n\nIn 2008 a Congressional mandate called for investigators funded by the NIH to submit an electronic version of their final manuscripts to the National Library of Medicine's research repository, PubMed Central (PMC), no later than 12 months after the official date of publication. The NIH Public Access Policy was the first public access mandate for a U.S. public funding agency.\n\nOn February 13, 2012, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) announced a new group of individuals assigned to research pain. This committee is composed of researchers from different organizations and will focus to \"coordinate pain research activities across the federal government with the goals of stimulating pain research collaboration… and providing an important avenue for public involvement\" (\"Members of new,\" 2012). With a committee such as this research will not be conducted by each individual organization or person but instead a collaborating group which will increase the information available. With this hopefully more pain management will be available including techniques for arthritis sufferers.\n\nIn 2000, the Joint Economic Committee of Congress reported NIH research, which was funded at $16 billion a year in 2000, that some econometric studies had given a rate of return of 25 to 40 percent per year by reducing the economic cost of illness in the US. It found that of the 21 drugs with the highest therapeutic impact on society introduced between 1965 and 1992, public funding was \"instrumental\" for 15. As of 2011 NIH-supported research helped to discover 153 new FDA-approved drugs, vaccines, and new indications for drugs in the 40 years prior. One study found NIH funding aided either directly or indirectly in developing the drugs or drug targets for all of the 210 FDA-approved drugs from 2010 to 2016. In 2015, Pierre Azoulay et al. estimated $10 million invested in research generated two to three new patents.\n\nSince its inception, the NIH intramural research program has been a source of many pivotal scientific and medical discoveries. Some of these include:\n\nIn September 2006, the NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research started a contract for the NIH Toolbox for the Assessment of Neurological and Behavioral Function to develop a set of state-of-the-art measurement tools to enhance collection of data in large cohort studies. Scientists from more than 100 institutions nationwide contributed. In September 2012, the NIH Toolbox was rolled out to the research community. NIH Toolbox assessments are based, where possible, on Item Response Theory and adapted for testing by computer.\n\nTo allocate funds, the NIH must first obtain its budget from Congress. This process begins with institute and center (IC) leaders collaborating with scientists to determine the most important and promising research areas within their fields. IC leaders discuss research areas with NIH management who then develops a budget request for continuing projects, new research proposals, and new initiatives from the Director. NIH submits its budget request to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and the HHS considers this request as a portion of its budget. Many adjustments and appeals occur between NIH and HHS before the agency submits NIH's budget request to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). OMB determines what amounts and research areas are approved for incorporation into the President's final budget. The President then sends NIH's budget request to Congress in February for the next fiscal year's allocations. The House and Senate Appropriations Subcommittees deliberate and by fall, Congress usually appropriates funding. This process takes approximately 18 months before the NIH can allocate any actual funds.\n\nOver the last century, the responsibility to allocate funding has shifted from the OD and Advisory Committee to the individual ICs and Congress increasingly set apart funding for particular causes. In the 1970s, Congress began to earmark funds specifically for cancer research, and in the 1980s there was a significant amount allocated for AIDS/HIV research.\n\nFunding for the NIH has often been a source of contention in Congress, serving as a proxy for the political currents of the time. During the 1980s, President Reagan repeatedly tried to cut funding for research, only to see Congress partly restore funding. The political contention over NIH funding slowed the nation's response to the AIDS epidemic; while AIDS was reported in newspaper articles from 1981, no funding was provided for research on the disease. In 1984 National Cancer Institute scientists found implications that \"variants of a human cancer virus called HTLV-III are the primary cause of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS),\" a new epidemic that gripped the nation.\nIn 1992, the NIH encompassed nearly 1 percent of the federal government's operating budget and controlled more than 50 percent of all funding for health research and 85 percent of all funding for health studies in universities. From 1993 to 2001 the NIH budget doubled. Since then, funding essentially remained flat, and during the decade following the financial crisis, the NIH budget struggled to keep up with inflation.\n\nIn 1999 Congress increased the NIH's budget by $2.3 billion to $17.2 billion in 2000. In 2009 Congress again increased the NIH budget to $31 billion in 2010. In March 2017, President Trump proposed to cut the 2018 budget by 18.3%, or about $5.8 billion to $25.9 billion.\n\nResearchers at universities or other institutions outside of NIH can apply for research project grants (RPGs) from the NIH. There are numerous funding mechanisms for different project types (e.g., basic research, clinical research etc.) and career stages (e.g., early career, postdoc fellowships etc.). The NIH regularly issues \"requests for applications\" (RFAs), e.g., on timely medical problems (such as Zika virus research in early 2016). In addition, researchers can apply for \"investigator-initiated grants\" whose subject is determined by the scientist.\n\nThe total number of applicants has increased substantially, from about 60,000 investigators who had applied during the period from 1999 to 2003 to slightly less than 90,000 in who had applied during the period from 2011 to 2015. Due to this, the \"cumulative investigator rate,\" that is, the likelihood that unique investigators are funded over a 5-year window, has declined from 43% to 31%.\n\nR01 grants are the most common funding mechanism and include investigator-initiated projects. The roughly 27,000 to 29,000 R01 applications had a funding success of 17-19% during 2012 though 2014. Similarly, the 13,000 to 14,000 R21 applications had a funding success of 13-14% during the same period. In FY 2016, the total number of grant applications received by the NIH was 54,220, with approximately 19% being awarded funding. Institutes have varying funding rates. The National Cancer Institute awarded funding to 12% of applicants, while the National Institute for General Medical Science awarded funding to 30% of applicants.\n\nNIH employs five broad decision criteria in its funding policy. First, ensure the highest quality of scientific research by employing an arduous peer review process. Second, seize opportunities that have the greatest potential to yield new knowledge and that will lead to better prevention and treatment of disease. Third, maintain a diverse research portfolio in order to capitalize on major discoveries in a variety of fields such as cell biology, genetics, physics, engineering, and computer science. Fourth, address public health needs according to the disease burden (e.g., prevalence and mortality). And fifth, construct and support the scientific infrastructure (e.g., well-equipped laboratories and safe research facilities) necessary to conduct research.\n\nAdvisory committee members advise the Institute on policy and procedures affecting the external research programs and provide a second level of review for all grant and cooperative agreement applications considered by the Institute for funding.\n\nIn 2014, it was announced that the NIH is directing scientists to perform their experiments with both female and male animals, or cells derived from females as well as males if they are studying cell cultures, and that the NIH would take the balance of each study design into consideration when awarding grants. The announcement also stated that this rule would probably not apply when studying sex-specific diseases (for example, ovarian or testicular cancer).\n\nWhen a government shutdown occurs, the NIH continues to treat people who are already enrolled in clinical trials, but does not start any new clinical trials and does not admit new patients who are not already enrolled in a clinical trial, except for the most critically ill, as determined by the NIH Director.\n\nOne of the goals of the NIH is to \"expand the base in medical and associated sciences in order to ensure a continued high return on the public investment in research.\" Taxpayer dollars funding NIH are from the taxpayers, making them the primary beneficiaries of advances in research. Thus, the general public is a key stakeholder in the decisions resulting from the NIH funding policy. However, some in the general public do not feel their interests are being represented, and individuals have formed patient advocacy groups to represent their own interests.\n\nImportant stakeholders of the NIH funding policy include researchers and scientists. Extramural researchers differ from intramural researchers in that they are not employed by the NIH but may apply for funding. Throughout the history of the NIH, the amount of funding received has increased, but the proportion to each IC remains relatively constant. The individual ICs then decide who will receive the grant money and how much will be allotted.\n\nPolicy changes on who receives funding significantly affects researchers. For example, the NIH has recently attempted to approve more first-time NIH R01 applicants, or the research grant applications of young scientists. To encourage the participation of young scientists, the application process has been shortened and made easier. In addition, first-time applicants are being offered more funding for their research grants than those who have received grants in the past.\n\nIn 2011 and 2012, the Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General published a series of audit reports revealing that throughout the fiscal years 2000–2010, institutes under the aegis of the NIH did not comply with the time and amount requirements specified in appropriations statutes, in awarding federal contracts to commercial partners, committing the federal government to tens of millions of dollars of expenditure ahead of appropriation of funds from Congress.\n\nThe NIH is composed of 27 separate institutes and centers (ICs) that conduct and coordinate research across different disciplines of biomedical science. These are:\n\n\n\nIn addition, the National Center for Research Resources operated from April 13, 1962 to December 23, 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6806233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6806233", "title": "Norwest Business Park", "text": "Norwest Business Park\n\nThe Norwest Business Park is a business park in the suburb of Norwest in local government area of The Hills Shire in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Norwest Business Park is bordered by Windsor Road to the East, and Old Windsor Road to the West, with Norwest Boulevard stretching the length of the park between the two main arterial roads. It is growing every day with new companies moving in to serve the people of the Hills District. Over 400 companies are located in the park employing more than 25,000 people. The complex consists of a mix of Commercial, Professional & Health care Services and several office buildings.\n\nAustralia's largest ice-skating rink, a shopping centre, Novotel hotel, two service stations, Hillsong Church, Virgin Active gym, alternative health services, medical centre, commercial law firm HWL Ebsworth, banks, child care centres, drive-through post office, waterways and landscaped public open spaces are all located within the Business Park. Projected employment is 32,000 by 2031. The park is 172 Hectares in area and currently has 800 businesses. Occupied space is currently 500,000m² with Potential for a total of 1.7 million m².\n\nThe park was established in 1983, during the Sydney housing boom. Farms had previously occupied the area. The park grew with the expanding population of the area, and the first business to be constructed was the Baulkham Hills Coles supermarket, known as Norwest Markettown.\n\nThe expansion of the Hillsong Church in the area saw a corresponding expansion in the businesses of the area. In 2005, the Woolworths Limited head office was constructed, and now employs several thousand staff. Cafes and restaurants also serve the park.\n\nOther large scale corporations in the Norwest Business Park include ResMed, AAMI Insurance, Fitness First gym, and one of the Reserve Bank of Australia's data centers.\n\nSubaru Australia has an office in Baulkham Hills part of this business area.\n\nNorwest also houses Australia's largest law firm (by partner numbers), HWL Ebsworth Lawyers, being the only national firm with a presence in Greater Western Sydney.\n\nThe park was conceived & developed by Douglas Boyd Lanceley.\n\nThe main form of transport to the business park is by bus or by cycling on the off-road Old Windsor Road Cycleway. In late 2005, the Westlink M7 Motorway opened up with an exit at the western end of Norwest Boulevard; this gave the business park greater exposure for businesses in Southern and Western Sydney with motorway exits at the M5 at Prestons and the M4 at Eastern Creek respectively. The M2 Hills Motorway (which connects with the M7 near Old Windsor Road) also provides travel connections to the Sydney CBD and airport. However the increase of traffic flow from the motorways brought traffic congestion. Norwest Boulevard, Windsor and Old Windsor Roads often suffer traffic jams during morning and afternoon peak times.\n\nIn late March 2007, the North West T-Way opened, providing relief to the traffic congested business park. The T-Way runs from Parramatta to Rouse Hill. The T-Way provides frequent bus services between Parramatta and Rouse Hill, promoting the use of public transport in and around Sydney. The route runs primarily along Old Windsor Road with several stops. Three T-way bus stations serve Norwest Business Park; Norbrik (near the corner of Old Windsor Road and Norbrik Drive), Meurants (near the corner of Old Windsor Road and Norwest Boulevard and Celebration (near the corner of Old Windsor Road and Celebration Drive). Hillsbus Route T64 between Parramatta and Rouse Hill travels through the business park seven days a week. Hillsbus also operate route 618 from the Sydney CBD via Lane Cove and route 628 from Macquarie Park via the M2, Windsor Road through Norwest Boulevard to Lexington Drive. Busways operate Route T70 through Norwest Business Park, linking with Castle Hill and Blacktown.\n\nThe North West T-Way also runs from Blacktown to Rouse Hill, running along Sunnyholt Road before joining the Parramatta - Rouse Hill T-Way at Burns Road. Until the North West Rail Link is constructed, the T-Way is the only form of public transport linking the park with Blacktown and Parramatta train stations.\n\nThe EIS for the construction of two underground railway stations for North West Rail\nwas released in April 2012 with construction expected to start in 2014. Construction of the rail link commenced in 2014, with two railway stations being built in the Norwest Business Park area - Bella Vista Station and Norwest Station. The North West Rail Link is scheduled to open to the public in the first half of 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58842996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58842996", "title": "Pete Fry", "text": "Pete Fry\n\nPete Fry is a Canadian politician and business owner in Vancouver, British Columbia, who was elected to Vancouver City Council in the 2018 municipal election. He is a member of the Green Party of Vancouver.\n\nFry first ran for city council in the 2014 municipal election, but was not elected. He then secured the nomination of the Green Party of British Columbia in a 2016 provincial by-election in the riding of Vancouver-Mount Pleasant. In 2017, he ran for Vancouver City Council a second time, in the by-election following the resignation of Geoff Meggs.\n\nFry owns a graphics and communications agency in Vancouver. His mother is Hedy Fry, the federal Member of Parliament for Vancouver Centre.\n"}
{"id": "1705641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1705641", "title": "Playboy: The Mansion", "text": "Playboy: The Mansion\n\nPlayboy: The Mansion is a simulation video game for the PlayStation 2, Microsoft Windows and Xbox consoles, developed by Cyberlore Studios, published by Groove Games and Arush Entertainment and licensed by Playboy Enterprises.\n\n\"Playboy: The Mansion\" puts players in the role of Hugh Hefner, the founder of \"Playboy\" Magazine and Playboy Enterprises, referred to in the game as 'Hef'. The aim of the game is to build the famed Playboy Empire from scratch, starting from a humble magazine to celebrity endorsements to home entertainment to Internet websites to merchandise.\n\nThe player can mold the famed Playboy Mansion to their own needs and wants, and has the option of experiencing the infamous \"Playboy\" Playmate parties in locations such as the Grotto and the Clubhouse. Hef, as well as all other characters in the game, can build three types of relationships with other characters: casual, business, and romantic. Each month, the player has to print an issue of the magazine. To do that the player needs a cover shoot, a centerfold, an essay from a celebrity, interview with a celebrity, a pictorial about a subject and an article about a subject. The player must hire photographers and writers to create each issue. All the characters have interests, such as sports and music, and writers on those topics will produce higher-quality articles. In the game, the player is the photographer during photo shoots. The game contains many sexual references, including sexual relationships.\n\nThere are twelve missions in total. Some of the goals include making and/or fixing relationships with people, publishing certain magazine content, and throwing parties. Players can also choose not to achieve goals, as there is no time limit, and do other things such as parties, mansion renovations and playing with the mansion's variety of games; however, magazines must continue to be published as that is the player's income source.\n\nThe main song on the video game is playboy mansion by Prince Charming..from the album songs for my therapist\nA soundtrack to the game, mixed by American DJ and record producer Felix da Housecat has been released. It features house tracks by many renowned producers like Armand Van Helden, DJ Sneak or Kaskade.\n\n\"Playboy: The Mansion - Private Party Expansion Pack\" is the expansion pack. It adds extra features such as parties like Midsummer Night's Dream, world-famous celebrities and Playmates, new animations, enhanced character editing and party-themed music.\n\nThe expansion adds many new features to the game. When characters engage in sexual activities, they now remove their underwear and their genitals are blurred, much like \"The Sims\" characters. Another feature is the ability to throw \"theme parties\", which consist of Halloween, A Midsummer Night's Dream, Hef's Birthday, Tropical, Playmate of the Year and more.\n\nThe game was met with mixed reception. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 60% and 59 out of 100 for the PC version, 59.97% and 59 out of 100 for the PlayStation 2 version, and 62.14% and 61 out of 100 for the Xbox version.\n\nEurogamer noted that the game was similar to \"The Sims\" series but was unfortunately less entertaining. It was considered \"a little too slight a proposition for a full game.\"\n\n\"The New York Times\" gave it a mixed review and stated, \"Sex and nudity often work well in movies, but video games laced with sex never rise above mediocrity, and \"Mansion\" seems decidedly underbaked.\" \"The Sydney Morning Herald\" gave it two-and-a-half stars out of five and called it \"A frisky concept with limited thrills and not enough depth to challenge gamers.\" \"Detroit Free Press\" gave it two stars out of four and stated, \"I flipped on the game expecting a world of champagne, roses and frequent wisps of steam. Instead, I got an immediate request that I construct an office on the mansion's upper floor.\"\n"}
{"id": "41443620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41443620", "title": "PreTesting Company", "text": "PreTesting Company\n\nPreTesting Company is a full-service Market research company founded in 1985 that specializes in print, television, and radio ad copy testing.\n\nPreTesting Company was founded in 1985 by American inventor and market researcher Lee Weinblatt. After beginning his career at Perception Research, Weinblatt started Telcom Research, a company that manufactured recorders that used an infrared beam to track a viewer as he watched a commercial in a research setting. Weinblatt sold the company in 1983.\n\nIn 1985, Weinblatt started PreTesting Company in order to provide advertising companies with insights into the effectiveness of their print, radio, and TV ads. The company tests subjects in situations where they are unaware of how - and why - they're being tested, ensuring authentic, unbiased results. \n\nPreTesting Company’s most advanced innovation to date has been a recording device that tracks movements of the eye, called saccades. Through saccadic eye tracking, Pretesting Company can determine not only where a viewer is looking as he’s watching an ad, but also how visually stimulating the ad is. These results can help companies gauge whether their ads are visually stimulating enough to keep the viewers attention, or in contrast, whether they're so visually stimulating that no actual information is absorbed. \n"}
{"id": "3824879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3824879", "title": "Robert E. Brennan", "text": "Robert E. Brennan\n\nRobert Emmet Brennan (born 1944) is an American businessman who built the infamous penny stock brokerage firm, First Jersey Securities. The firm specialized in promoting \"Pump and dump\" penny stocks to unsuspecting investors, many of them elderly, who lost their entire investments when the stocks inevitably crashed.\n\nAs a result of this penny stock scheme, Brennan became a target of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. First Jersey itself went bankrupt in 1987 and Brennan was found guilty of securities fraud in 1994. The US Government ordered him to pay $75 million to settle the fraud claims.\n\nBrennan declared bankruptcy in 1995 but committed another fraud when he did not declare all of his assets to the court. Brennan withheld from the bankruptcy court that he held $500,000 in casino chips that he had purchased (and later cashed out of after his bankruptcy) and $4 million in municipal bonds he kept in his basement. He then directed an associate to liquidate the bonds overseas and invest them in stocks, which netted him $16 million in ill-gotten gains.\n\nIn 2001 Brennan was found guilty of money-laundering and bankruptcy fraud and sentenced to a prison term of nine years and two months. On appeal, in 2003 the sentence was upheld. Brennan served part of his sentence at the US Bureau of Prison's Fort Dix Federal Correctional Institution in Fort Dix, New Jersey. He was released on January 14, 2011 from Fort Dix and was sent to another less harsh prison until July which is when he was released.\n\nBrennan grew up in Newark, New Jersey, one of nine children. His first wife, Cecelia, was his childhood sweetheart. He attended St Leo's Roman Catholic School in Irvington, and was taught by the School Sisters of Notre Dame, and St. Benedict's Preparatory School in Newark and in 1973 donated $10 million to the school which allowed it to significantly upgrade its facilities. A major benefactor to Seton Hall University, following his conviction the university's Board of Governors had Brennan's name removed from a recreation center on its campus in South Orange, New Jersey. Brennan is an alumnus of Seton Hall University and sat on its Board of Regents.\n\nBrennan was also a Certified Public Accountant but his license was revoked as a result of his criminal conviction. \n\nInternational Thoroughbred Breeders, Inc., a publicly held company founded and chaired by Brennan, financed the reconstruction of Garden State Park race track in Cherry Hill, New Jersey after it was taken out by a 1977 fire. The grandstand reopened in 1985, closed in 2001, was demolished, and the property redeveloped. Brennan also owned and raced Thoroughbreds under the name Due Process Stable. The best known of his horses were Eclipse Award winners Deputy Minister and his son Dehere, who was bred by Brennan. \n\nBrennan also built and owned the Due Process Stable Golf Club in Colts Neck Township, New Jersey, where he lived until his arrest in 2001.\n\n"}
{"id": "7423387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7423387", "title": "Robert Gordy", "text": "Robert Gordy\n\nRobert Louis Gordy (born July 15, 1931) is an American former music publishing executive, and a former recording artist under the stage name Bob Kayli. He is the youngest child of Berry Gordy, Sr. and Bertha Fuller, the brother of Motown founder, Berry Gordy, Jr. and uncle of singer and Rapper Redfoo.\n\nRobert Gordy was born in Detroit, Michigan. He had a brief career as a recording artist, and had a minor hit, as Bob Kayli, with the novelty song, \"Everyone Was There\", co-written with his brother Berry and leased by him to the Carlton label. The record reached #96 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in November 1958. He recorded a second single on Gordy's Anna label in 1959, \"Never More\", before working for a time in the postal service. As his older brother's Motown company expanded, Robert returned to work for it, initially as a recording engineer. He also recorded two further singles as Bob Kayli, \"Small Sad Sam\" (a cover of Phil McLean's answer record to \"Big Bad John\", Tamla, 1961), and \"Hold On Pearl\" (Gordy, 1962). Neither was successful, and his career as a recording artist ended.\n\nFrom 1961, he worked in Motown's publishing arm, Jobete Music. In 1965 he took over as general manager and vice-president of Jobete following the death of his sister Loucye, and reputedly ran the company \"like a military platoon\". As a songwriter, he co-wrote several songs for early Motown artists including \"You're What's Happening (In the World Today),\" the B-Side to \"I Heard it Through the Grapevine, Motown's biggest single up until that time. As an actor, Robert Gordy also played the character \"Hawk\" in the 1972 film, \"Lady Sings the Blues\". By 1974, Jobete had a catalog of over 7,000 songs, with Robert Gordy stating that his aim for the company was to have a \"well-rounded stable\" of songs, including country and western as well as its established repertoire. He continued to head Jobete until 1985.\n\nHe now resides in California.\n\n"}
{"id": "53601827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53601827", "title": "Sean Bellerby", "text": "Sean Bellerby\n\nSean Bellerby is an Australian entrepreneur. He is the founding CEO and President of GoSnow, Inc., a Los Angeles-based investor backed software company known for taking the worldwide snow sports industry on demand.\n\nBellerby graduated from Macquarie University in 2012 with an MBA, and Master of Marketing degree. In addition to Macquarie University, and prior to starting GoSnow, Bellerby had spent 12 years in senior business development roles in U.S enterprise software companies such as Mercury Interactive, Intel Security, and CA Technologies in varying locations around the world. His last tenure in the enterprise software business was at CA Technologies as an executive responsible for taking new cloud services to market through global service provider partnerships.\n\nBellerby co-founded GoSnow in 2016 with American Scott Anfang. Its first product was a meet-up app for skiers and snowboarders which was credited as a world first.\nIn January 2017, GoSnow innovatively took the snows sports industry on demand by releasing its on demand bookings platform for snow sports instructors and activities around the world. \n"}
{"id": "53652303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53652303", "title": "Stakeholder register", "text": "Stakeholder register\n\nA stakeholder register is a document that describes who (individual or group) is affected by a project, and their effect and impact on the project. A stakeholder register is ideally completed early in the project to ensure proper engagement of stakeholders. Sources for the register include:\nContents include:\n\n"}
{"id": "56151905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56151905", "title": "State transition algorithm", "text": "State transition algorithm\n\nIn global optimization, a state transition algorithm (STA) is an iterative method that generates a sequence of improving approximate solutions for an optimization problem. Due to its intrinsic properties, an STA has the ability to find a global optimal solution in probability and can guarantee an optimal solution.\n\nThe state transition algorithm was first proposed by Zhou et al. It is a stochastic global optimization method and aims to find a possible global or approximate optimal solution in a reasonable amount of time. In the context of the STA, a solution to an optimization problem is regarded as a state, and updating a solution can be regarded as a state transition. Using the state-space representation, it describes solutions updating in a unified framework, and the execution operators to update solutions are expressed as state transition matrices, which make it easy to understand and flexible to implement:\nwhere:\nAs a stochastic global optimization method, STA has the following properties:\n\nIn continuous STA, formula_10 is a continuous variable, and four special state transformation operators are designed to generate new candidate solutions.\n\nwhere formula_12 is a positive constant, called the rotation factor, formula_13 is a random matrix with its entries being uniformly distributed random variables defined on the interval [-1,1], and formula_14 is the 2-norm of a vector. \nThe rotation transformation has the functionality to search in a hypersphere with maximal radius formula_12 , that is to say, formula_16.\n\nwhere formula_18 is a positive constant, called the translation factor, and formula_19\nis a uniformly distributed random variable defined on the interval [0,1]. The translation transformation has the functionality to search along a line from formula_20 to formula_3 at the starting point formula_3 with maximal length formula_18.\n\nwhere formula_25 is a positive constant, called the expansion factor, and formula_26 is a random diagonal matrix with its entries obeying the Gaussian distribution. The expansion transformation has the functionality to expand the entries in formula_3 to the range of formula_28, searching in the whole space.\n\nwhere formula_30 is a positive constant, called the axesion factor, and formula_31 is a random diagonal matrix with its entries obeying the Gaussian distribution and with only one random position having nonzero value. The axesion transformation aims to search along the axes.\n\nFor a given solution formula_3, a candidate solution formula_33 is generated by using one time of the aforementioned state transformation operators. Since the state transition matrix in each state transformation is random, the generated candidate solution is not unique. Based on a given point, it is not difficult to imagine that a regular neighbourhood will be automatically formed when using certain state transformation operators.\n\nSince the entries in state transition matrix obey certain stochastic distribution, for any given solution, the new candidate becomes a random vector and its corresponding solution (the value of a random vector) can be regarded as a sample. Considering that any two random state transition matrices in each state transformation operator are independent,\nseveral times of state transformation (called the degree of search enforcement, formula_34 for short) based on the given solution are performed for certain state transformation operator, yielding formula_34 samples.\n\nAs mentioned above, based on the incumbent best solution, a total number of \"SE\" candidate solutions are sampled. A new best solution is selected from the candidate set by virtue of the evaluation function, denoted as formula_36. \nThen, an update strategy based on greedy criterion is used to update the incumbent best solution:\n\nWith the state transformation operators, sampling technique and update strategy, the basic continuous STA can be described as follows:\n\nStep 1: Initiate a random solution formula_40 and set formula_41 formula_42\n\nStep 2: Generate formula_34 samples based on incumbent formula_40 using Expansion Transformation, and then update the incumbent formula_40 using greedy criterion incorporating formula_34 samples and incumbent formula_40 . Let us denote formula_36 the best solution in formula_34 samples, if formula_50, then perform the Translation Transformation similarly to update the incumbent formula_40;\n\nStep 3: Generate formula_34 samples based on incumbent formula_40 using Rotation Transformation, and then update the incumbent formula_40 using greedy criterion incorporating formula_34 samples and incumbent formula_40 . If formula_50, then perform the Translation Transformation similarly to update the incumbent formula_40;\n\nStep 4: Generate formula_34 samples based on incumbent formula_40 using Axesion Transformation, and then update the incumbent formula_40 using greedy criterion incorporating formula_34 samples and incumbent formula_40 . If formula_50, then perform the Translation Transformation similarly to update the incumbent formula_40;\n\nStep 5: set formula_66, if formula_67, set formula_68, else set formula_69, and return to Step 2 until the maximum of iterations is met.\n\n\nSTA has found a variety of applications, like image segmentation, \ntask assignment, energy consumption in the alumina evaporation process, resolution of overlapping linear\nsweep voltammetric peaks, PID controller design, volterra series identification, and system modeling, and it is shown that STA is comparable to most existing global optimization methods.\n\n"}
{"id": "23210203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23210203", "title": "Stephen G. Haines", "text": "Stephen G. Haines\n\nStephen G. Haines (1945–2012) was an American organizational theorist, management consultant, author of books on management and systems thinking.\n\nStephen Haines earned a B.S. in Engineering from the United States Naval Academy. He also worked for a doctorate in Management and Educational Psychology from Temple University, but did not complete the dissertation He received a Master of Science in Administration in Organization Development under Richard F. Ericson and Jerry Harvey at the George Washington University.\n\nAs a former U.S. Naval officer, he flew Navy jets, piloted ships, and served off Vietnam. In the 1970s, Haines worked as an executive and consultant. He was Executive Vice President of Imperial Corporation of America, a nationwide financial services firm that filed for bankruptcy in 1990. and Senior Vice President of Freddie Mac. He also held executive positions with MCI Inc., Exxon, Sunoco, and Marriott Corporation. In the 1980s, he was president of University Associates (UA) Consulting and Training Services. He founded the Haines Centre for Strategic Management in 1990, serving as CEO; the firm now has a network of offices in over 25 countries. He was very active in the formulation of the Association for Strategic Planning's strategic planning certification program.\n\nHaines died in San Diego, California on July 2, 2012.\n\nTo develop a strategic management system, Haines (2000) suggested using the \"Systems Thinking Approach\" and its five-phased (ABCDE) Systems Thinking model that invites the leader to ask and answer five important questions: \nThese five questions \"align directly with the five phases of a system: (1) output, (2) feedback loop, (3) input, and (4) throughput/actions (5) within the dynamic and changing environment\".\n\nHaines wrote more than 16 books, over 50 articles, and developed 12 volumes of the Haines' Strategic Library. A selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "2862946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2862946", "title": "Swansea City Centre", "text": "Swansea City Centre\n\nSwansea city centre in Swansea, Wales, contains the main shopping, leisure and nightlife district in Swansea. The city centre covers much of the Castle ward including the area around Oxford Street, Castle Square, and the Quadrant Shopping Centre; Alexandra Road, High Street, Wind Street and the Castle; Parc Tawe; and the Maritime Quarter extending down to the seafront.\n\nSwansea's early 18th century industrial development shaped the development of today's city centre. However, the heart of the city centre was bombed severely in 1941 in what is now termed the \"Three Nights Blitz\". Forty one acres of the city centre and 857 premises were destroyed beyond repair. Many local businesses had to be relocated just outside the area of devastation. The small area of Georgian streets around the Old Town Hall (now the Dylan Thomas Centre) and later buildings including the former Head Post Office on Wind Street, Swansea Harbour Trust Office (now Morgans Hotel), the Castle cinema and the Carlton Cinema on Oxford Street (now a Waterstone's bookshop) are rare survivors of the former streets and buildings.\n\nThe bombing necessitated the complete rebuilding of the city centre, a task which fell upon the county borough of Swansea. Preliminary plans were drawn up in 1943, a Compulsory Purchase order was obtained in 1946 and reconstruction work began in 1947. The reconstruction task took over thirty years to accomplish.\n\nThe new centre was planned on a grid-pattern of roads including the main thoroughfares of Kingsway, Princess Way, West Way and Oystermouth Road. At the time of the initial post-war rebuilding, the River Tawe riverfront and the South Dock (now the Maritime Quarter) were still port and industrial areas, separated from the commercial district\nby railway viaducts and roads. With the old shopping centre on High Street flattened, Swansea's main shopping district was rebuilt around the new Kingsway.\n\nRedevelopment continued into the 1980s, including the construction of the Quadrant Shopping Centre, St. David's Shopping Centre, County Hall, Parc Tawe and the demolition of railway viaducts at Victoria Road. These developments reinforced the city centre as a largely retail centre with only limited office accommodation and housing. In recent years, a greater mix of uses has been encouraged in the city centre with the regeneration of the Maritime Quarter, Wind Street and Salubrious Place, the opening of the National Waterfront Museum and the refurbishment of Swansea Leisure Centre.\n\nSwansea city centre provides about 24,000 jobs, or about 18% of jobs in the wider urban area. This is a low figure when compared to many other UK cities, which often have around a quarter, a third or even more of their employment in the city centre. Retail, hotel and restaurant jobs are strongly represented in Swansea city centre, and there is a growing finance and business services sector, but much of the employment that would normally be found in a city centre has instead been located in outer areas of Swansea.\n\nThe city centre currently features of comparison goods floorspace (clothing, furniture, electrical goods etc.) and of convenience goods floorspace (food and groceries). According to an analysis cited in the City Centre Strategic Framework, Swansea is the eighteenth largest retail centre in the UK, relatively large for its population. However, the general quality, range and size of city centre shops is poor, so Swansea is usually ranked outside the top 50 retail centres in the UK on various industry listings. The poor retail performance is believed to be the result of several factors, including poor urban design, lack of recent development and competition from out-of-town shops at Fforestfach and Morfa.\n\nSwansea city centre is not a major office location, although there are office premises including the BT Tower near Swansea Castle, Oldway House/Alexandra House on High Street/Alexandra Road and the JobCentre Plus building near the St. David's Shopping Centre. In 2002, there was of office space in the city centre as a whole, and in the retail core. Relatively low rents, generally less than £86 per m (£8 per sq. ft), underline the weakness of the city centre office market. However, an additional is planned at SA1 Swansea Waterfront, adjacent to the city centre, and rents of £140 per m (£13 per sq. ft) have been achieved here. The City Centre Strategic Framework notes that this demonstrates that a commercially viable office market can eventually be developed in Swansea city centre.\n\nSwansea Market, the Quadrant Shopping Centre and the St. David's Shopping Centre are situated in the middle of the city centre. The Quadrant Centre opened in the late 1970s and dominated by chain stores. It includes an adjacent multi-storey car park that opens directly into Debenhams on one floor. Swansea bus station is located on the western side of the centre, and Swansea Grand Theatre is next door to the station on Singleton Street. A Tesco superstore is located immediately south-east of the Quadrant.\n\nHigh Street was once the main shopping street in Swansea and formed the central axis of the shopping centre. It was completely destroyed in World War II. Leaving just a few buildings standing gutted including half of the now demolished Woolworth Building, the Elysium Cinema building, the New Castle Buildings and smaller stores to the northern end including the historical Bush Inn (demolished in 2013).\nThe High Street has a large indoor arcade filled with small local business including a Cafe (Arcade Cafe) a crafty shop, a hair extensions shop, a barbers, Army surplus store, A sewing training store, an clothing alterations shop, kids clothing shop (which used to be 2nds clothing)\nSwansea Castle is to be found at the southern end of the street. Opposite the castle is the Castle Square. Towards the northern end is Swansea railway station and the Swansea Grand Hotel. The stretch between the castle and railway station is dominated by local retailers, discount retailers and a few pubs, restaurants, fast-food outlets and 2 of Swansea's gay bars, Pulse and The Kings. The street becomes mainly residential, north of the railway station. In this residential stretch, there is one wedged shaped building on the corner with Prince of Wales Street. This is the Palace theatre, the venue where Anthony Hopkins staged his first professional performance, the oldest theatre in Wales, one of only 2 remaining purpose built music halls left in the United Kingdom and the first place in Wales to screen a moving picture. It was once used as a nightclub but is now mostly derelict.\n\nUntil the development of Wind Street as a nightlife zone, the Kingsway was the centre of night life in Swansea. While many of the bars have shut down due to competition from Wind Street bars, the largest night clubs in Swansea are still located here. Apart from the night life venues, The Kingsway has a number of banks, shops, fast food outlets and branch of the YMCA. Swansea's former main Post Office was located on this road too but recently moved to WH Smith inside the Quadrant Shopping Centre about away.\n\nIn 2006, the Kingsway was re-engineered to become a one-way street for cars. The southern traffic lanes are now dedicated two way bus lanes developed in conjunction with the First Cymru's new Swansea Metro bus route. At the eastern end of the Kingsway was a large roundabout incorporating a pedestrian subway. The subway has now been filled in and the roundabout replaced with a traffic light crossroad and wider pedestrian walkways.\n\nOxford Street is the main shopping street in Swansea which includes major retailers such as Marks and Spencer, Next and BHS. The eastern end of the street, close to Castle Square, is pedestrianised and dominated by chain stores. The western end features mass-market/down-market multiple stores and links to two arcades of very small independent retailers. Further west, the street enters the Sandfields area and is mainly residential. Street markets are held on Oxford Street, Princess Way and Castle Square over Christmas.\n\nWind Street () has a name which nowadays means different things in the two languages. The local English pronunciation has shifted from Street (i.e. with a meaning matching the Welsh name) to Street (which doesn't). Wind Street was once a haunt of the poet Dylan Thomas and location of the covered alleyway 'Salubrious Passage'. It became a backwater in the second half of the 20th century when the commercial centre of Swansea shifted. It boasts the highest concentration of listed buildings in Swansea.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the pubs of Wind Street saw the visit of a young star-to-be. A group of American GIs stationed in Swansea entered the Adelphi pub. An Australian soldier also stationed in Swansea saw this and proceeded to taunt the young GI, who was drinking milk, that he was not strong enough to drink alcohol. Unfortunately for him he had picked on the young Rocky Marciano who went on to become one of the world's greatest heavyweight boxers. Rocky floored him with one punch. Marciano himself confirmed this story.\n\nFollowing redevelopment at the beginning of the 21st century it is now known for its pubs, bars, clubs and restaurants, including the No-Sign Wine Bar and The Olde Cross Keys pub. The street developed a reputation for drunkenness and bad behaviour, leading to the local council introducing a curb on new pub and club licences in the city centre. In December 2010 Wind Street had the second highest number of reported crimes in the whole of England and Wales.\n\nIn 2007 the development of the street's lower, south-eastern end was completed, as 'Salubrious Place', including an Aspers Casino, a Vue Cinema, a Premier Inn hotel, parking and additional eating and drinking venues. The casino closed in 2012 and Salubrious Place went into receivership in 2013, though in 2014 new plans were announced to re-invent the area.\n\nPrincess Way () links Kingsway Circle to the north with Oystermouth Road to the south. The northern section of the street is fully pedestrianised and is fronted with shops. The southern section is fronted with pubs, restaurants and offices and has a Travelodge hotel, a Vue cinema and Aspers casino. The central portion of Princess Way opens onto two town squares.\n\nCastle Square links Princess Way with Castle Street. Castle Square is a concreted square that slopes upwards towards steps to Swansea Castle to the east forming an amphitheatre-like space. It has grass verges and a few trees on its sides, and two fountains. The square is faced to the south by Caer Street which is lined with shops in buildings with a mock Tudor facade. In July 2008, a new permanent BBC TV big screen was constructed on the southern corner of Castle Square, which will show BBC coverage of Beijing 2008 and London 2012 as well as local content.\n\nSt. Mary's Square links Princess Way with Whitewalls. St. Mary's Church sits in the middle of the square. It is fronted by the Quadrant Centre to the east; a clothes shop to the north; and offices and shops to the south.\n\nParc Tawe is an area on the west bank of the River Tawe in the Lower Swansea valley. The area includes several \"out-of-town\" style stores and entertainment units. There are car parking spaces in this area, but at peak periods it is subject to traffic congestion. A highly visible building is the Plantasia - a large triangular tropical plant house. Entertainments in the area include a 10 screen cinema and a ten pin bowling alley.\n\nAlexandra Road is in an area to the north of the city centre at the foot of Townhill. It is home to a campus University of Wales Trinity Saint David which has several premises in the area. Swansea College of Art's main centre is located in a building that once housed the Dynevor Secondary school. The Glynn Vivian Art Gallery is located here as is Swansea Central police station is located here in a new building on the site that was once occupied by a fire station. It was relocated from an older building that stood on the corner of Orchard Street/Alexandra Road. The building next to the old police station, opposite the Glynn Vivian gallery once housed the old library, which has now been relocated to the Civic Centre. The old police station has been converted into student flats for students of UWTSD. The old library is now part of Swansea College of Art and houses its Stained Glass, Product Design, Automotive Design, Games Design, 3D Computer Animation and Foundation courses. The BBC has two radio studios, a newsroom and general office at 32 Alexandra Road. It sub-lets part of its former building from the University of Wales Trinity Saint David which now owns the building and hosts its Music Technology and Performing Arts courses. The Swansea Magistrates Court is located opposite of the police station. The Mount Pleasant Baptist Church sits in the far south of the area on the Kingsway.\n\nSt Helens Road is the main route to the city centre from the south west of Swansea. The south side of the street is dominated by fast food outlets, restaurants, ethnic grocery stores and ethnic restaurants. Bryn-y-mor Road links to St. Helen's where many student bars and more restaurants can be found. The north side of the street has a number of solicitors and health centres. The road continues past the Guildhall and connects with Oystermouth Road. Oystermouth Road begins near the Leisure Centre and separates the shopping area of the city centre with the Maritime Quarter. It continues along the coast of Swansea Bay towards Mumbles. The north of the road has a number of Bed and Breakfast establishments near the city centre area.\n\nWalter Road is the main route from the city centre to the west, including the Uplands district. Most of the road is lined with substantial three-storey town houses, many of which have been converted for use by small professional practices like accountants, solicitors, estate agents, civil engineers and surveyors. A few properties are still residential, nearly all divided into flats and bedsits.\n\nThe side streets around Walter Road are mainly residential, with mostly three bedroomed properties, mainly occupied by families. A number of properties have been converted into bedsits for use by students of Swansea University south of Walter Road and the University of Wales Trinity Saint David north of Walter Road.\n\nCarmarthen Road is a dual carriageway stretch of the A483 which runs NW from the Dyfatty traffic junction in the city centre. Carmarthen Road has a mix of developments including residential, retail and commercial parks and industrial units.\n\nFabian Way, a stretch of the A483, departs the city centre to the east. It bypasses St. Thomas and Port Tennant to the north; and Swansea Docks and the SA1 Swansea Waterfront development to the south. It continues through Crymlyn Burrows where it connects with the M4 Motorway at the Earlswood junction (M4 Junction 42). This is considered as the main gateway to the city centre from the east, because of the connection to the M4 and Neath Port Talbot.\n\nIn January 2007, developers Hammerson and Urban Splash were chosen for a £1 billion redevelopment of the city centre. The two developers previously collaborated on Birmingham's Bullring development. The plan by architects BDP, includes more than of additional retail space; 1,000 homes; new leisure, office, hotel and conference facilities; and a \"European Boulevard\" incorporating Oystermouth Road and Quay Parade.\n\nThe former David Evans department store has been replaced with a new development incorporating five stores trading over two floors, providing of retail space. Zara, Slater's Menswear and JT Morgan have signed up for the scheme. In late 2011 The Gym Group opened a gym on the first floor of the development.\n\nIn December 2008, the Council sought expressions of interest from contractors for the redevelopment of the Quadrant bus station. The Council said that it hopes to award the contract in May 2009, with work starting soon after. The project was planned to take around 15 months to complete. The new bus station duly opened on 6 December 2010, though with many finishing touches not added until early 2011.\n\nThe city centre is served by buses at the Swansea bus station and by trains at Swansea railway station at the northern end of High Street. Additional bus stops are located on the Kingsway and on St. Mary's Square. A single bus rapid transit route marketed as \"Swansea Metro\" runs through the centre.\n\nThere are three Park and Ride sites with dedicated buses serving the city centre, all operated by First Cymru:\nA fourth Park and Ride site is planned for the south of Swansea with the proposed site located in Blackpill serving both the city centre and Mumbles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15148711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15148711", "title": "Temple Street (Los Angeles)", "text": "Temple Street (Los Angeles)\n\nTemple Street is a street in the City of Los Angeles, California. The street is an east-west thoroughfare that runs through Downtown Los Angeles parallel to the Hollywood Freeway between Virgil Avenue past Alameda Street to the banks of the Los Angeles River. It was developed as a simple one-block long lane by Jonathan Temple, a mid-19th Century Los Angeles cattle rancher and merchant. \n\nOriginally, Temple terminated at the intersection of Main and Spring streets and, for decades, extended west only from that point. Later, Temple was extended eastward into the industrial district of town, while Main and Spring were rerouted so that they did not conjoin at Temple. From the late 1860s, as development pushed westward from the older downtown, Temple Street became a fashionable residential thoroughfare and remained so into the 1880s. When the county courthouse, hall of records, and other civic structures were built along or near the road, it became more of a civic roadway and remains so today with the federal court, hall of records and city hall all adjoining the street. Until the 1920s, Temple Street, as the city continued to grow west towards the ocean, was extended all the way to Beverly Hills. With, however, the creation of Beverly Boulevard, Temple Street was terminated at its current location at Virgil Avenue, near Silver Lake Boulevard. From that point, the roadway is Beverly Boulevard to Santa Monica Boulevard. Eastward, Temple Street terminates just east of Center Street and just west of Los Angeles River and railroad switch yards.\n\nSeveral important Los Angeles landmarks are on the street:\n\nNumber of LAUSD schools are located at Temple Street, including Downtown Magnets High School, Edward R. Roybal Learning Center, and Camino Nuevo Charter Academy. \n\nLos Angeles Public Library's Echo Park Branch Library is located on the corner of Temple Street and Douglas Street.\n\nMetro Local lines 10 and 92 run on Temple Street.\n"}
{"id": "35255287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35255287", "title": "Terminal Operating System", "text": "Terminal Operating System\n\nA Terminal Operating System, or TOS, is a key part of the supply chain and primarily aims to control the movement and storage of various types of Cargo in and around a Container terminal or Port. The systems also enables you to make better use of your assets, labour and equipment, plan your workload, and get up to the minute information which allows for more timely and cost-effective decision making.\n\nTerminal Operating Systems often utilize other technologies such as internet, EDI processing, mobile computers, wireless LANs and Radio-frequency identification (RFID) to efficiently monitor the flow of products in, out and around the terminal. Data is either a batch synchronization with, or a real-time wireless transmission to a central database. The database can then provide useful reports about the status of goods, locations and machines in the terminal.\n\nThe objective of a terminal operating system is to provide a set of computerized procedures to manage cargo, machines and people within the facility to enable a seamless link to efficiently and effectively manage the facility.\n\nTerminal operating systems can be stand alone systems, managed as a service or utilize cloud technologies.\n\nIn its simplest form, the TOS can data track cargo in and out of a terminal.\n\nA Terminal Operating System may be used to do some or all of the following functions:\n\nTerminals requiring various types of ship transport\n\nContainer terminals using Containerization for LO-LO (lift on Lift Off) operations such as these require plans for efficiently loading and unloading Container ships docked within their Terminal.\n\nA port using RO-RO ships require plans for efficiently loading automobiles, trucks, semi-trailer trucks, trailers or railroad cars that are driven on and off the ship on their own wheels.\n\nTerminals that require the arrival and departure of cargo on trains such as container trains or bulk cargo.\n\nHandle the receival and release of Cargo for transshipment from other modes of transport or storage.\n\nCreating Shipping list or keeping track of Warehouse levels. Tracking machine moves around the terminal.\n\nInvoicing and providing reports for internal and external use.\n\nKeeping track of Inventory and storing its movements.\n\nVarious types of cargo can be managed dependent of terminal type. Containers, Logs, Bulk Cargo. The ability to Pick and pack containers.\n\nTerminals may wish to communicate with the following through their Terminal Operating System:\n\nElectronic data interchange\n\n"}
{"id": "14758678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14758678", "title": "The Opening Bell on Fox Business", "text": "The Opening Bell on Fox Business\n\nThe Opening Bell on Fox Business was an American business news program airing on the Fox Business Network at 9:00am Eastern Time and was hosted by Alexis Glick until December 23, 2009. Jenna Lee and two other FBN anchors were in the running to fill the role until its abrupt cancellation on January 15, 2010, when it was replaced on the 18th by an extension of \"Imus in the Morning\".\nDebuting on December 17, 2007, this program offered a daily glimpse of what is expected to happen on Wall Street for the business day, reaction to the opening of the markets, and covered the first 30 minutes of the trading day. Contributors and reporters included Robert Gray, Shibani Joshi, Connell McShane, Charles Payne, Nicole Petallides (NYSE), and Ashley Webster (London).\n\nSome of these segments below included:\n\n\nThis program replaced the fourth hour of \"Money for Breakfast\", which was reduced from four hours to three on December 17, 2007, but \"Money for Breakfast\" contracted to two hours on May 12, 2008 as the first hour of that program was replaced by the second hour of the expanded \"Fox Business Morning\". \"Money for Breakfast\" is now off the air. \n\nFollowing the success of this program, Fox Business Network debuted \"Countdown to the Closing Bell\" on May 12, 2008. That program, which is hosted by Liz Claman, follows a format that is very similar to this one.\n\n\"The Opening Bell on Fox Business\" moved to a new set in Studio G on 2009-04-20. This program, along with \"Money for Breakfast\" (also hosted by Alexis Glick), \"Countdown to the Closing Bell\", \"Fox Business Bulls & Bears\" and \"Cavuto\" all shared that same set in the new Studio G until October 2, 2009. The show moved back to its old studio (the same studio that was originally used for the now-cancelled \"Money for Breakfast\") on October 5, 2009.\n\n\"The Opening Bell on Fox Business\" was canceled January 15, 2010. Fox Business Network expanded \"Imus in the Morning\" by 20 minutes on January 18, 2010, when \"Varney & Company\", hosted by Stuart Varney, debuted.\n\n"}
{"id": "47578372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47578372", "title": "Thomas Svanikier", "text": "Thomas Svanikier\n\nThomas Svanikier (born January 1960) is a leading Ghanaian entrepreneur, industrialist, and philanthropist. He is the founder and executive chairman of Svani Group, an automotive conglomerate, as well as a founder and Chairman of the Advisory Board of Fidelity Bank, a growing international financial institution.\n\nSvanikier has been at the forefront of Ghana’s economic modernization over the past 25 years, most notably in the automobile and financial sectors.\n\nThomas Svanikier’s first venture was an automotive import business. Svani Limited, established in 1990, supplied Russian-made Lada cars to Ghanaian industry, NGOs and government agencies, and consumers throughout West Africa. In response to the notable absence of North American automobiles, Svani Limited reintroduced Ford and Lincoln Mercury cars to the Ghanaian market in 1994.\n\nSvanikier quickly expanded his company and renamed it Svani Group. The company imports vehicles, leases, rents and sells cars, and is a distributor of generators and other heavy-duty equipment throughout West Africa. Svani has sold armored vehicles to the Office of the President of Ghana, the U.S. Secret Service in Nigeria, the Governor of Lagos State, and the governments of Liberia and Togo. The group also provides automotive maintenance and specialized equipment to the U.S. Department of State in Ghana.\n\nSvani currently controls about 20% of the global vehicles market in Ghana and has service centers in Accra, Takoradi, Koforidua and Kumasi. Svani is also the sole importer and distributor of Mahindra vehicles, as well as the largest distributor of Toyota Land Cruisers and Ford vehicles in Ghana. In partnership with Svanikier’s company, Mahindra built a motorcycle and pickup truck assembly plant in Accra, Ghana. The two companies are currently working on the development of a 9.6 acre car assembly and servicing center along the Accra-Tema motorway.\n\nA number of Svani-distributed vehicles have received nominations in Ghana’s Auto Awards.\n\nSvanikier ventured into private equity with the creation of Africa Capital LLC, which invests in transportation, energy, finance, and real estate projects. As a result, Svanikier is well known in Ghana as a job creator and investor responsible for a significant portion of the economic expansion and modernization between the 1980s and late 2000s.\n\nIn 2010, Africa Capital’s energy subsidiary, Atholl Energy, was lauded by then President John Evans Atta Mills for its joint project with the Siemens group to construct a 180-megawatt power generation plant that greatly augmented Ghana’s power supply.\n\nAfrica Capital is the largest shareholder of Fidelity Bank in both Ghana and Malaysia. Fidelity is currently the fourth largest bank in Ghana, and is growing rapidly. Fidelity Bank has 98 branches in Ghana and plans to increase that number significantly in the coming years. In December 2014, the bank’s total assets also stood at GHC 3.135 billion.\n\nIn July 2015, Svanikier and his wife were invited to be part of U.S. President Barack Obama’s delegation during his official visit to Kenya. Svanikier was also asked to take part in the Global Entrepreneurship Summit organized in Nairobi, Kenya by the U.S. Department of Commerce, at which the president met with leading figures in African business circles.\n\nAs of 2015, Svanikier serves as the senior adviser for Africa for the Transnational Strategy Group, a Washington, D.C.-based company that provides consultancy services for governments and companies on economic and political issues.\n\nSvanikier is the co-founder and chairman of several companies:\nSvanikier is Chairman of the Board of Fidelity Bank in both Ghana and Malaysia. Fidelity is one of the fastest growing banks in Ghana – over the past eight years it has created 95 branches throughout the country. Fidelity Bank has 51 branches in Ghana and plans to increase that number to 100 by the year 2017. Fidelity also provides the financing for Ghanaian customers to purchase or lease Mahindra vehicles produced in Svanikier's Accra plant.\n\nAdditionally, he is a founding member of the American Chamber of Commerce in Ghana.\n\nSvanikier is a well-known philanthropist in Ghana.\n\nHe serves as a leader for the Opportunities Industrialisation Centre (also known as OIC International). OIC is a non-profit group in Pennsylvania that gives technical and vocational skills training to underprivileged adults and teenagers.\n\nHe is also a leader of the Africa Poverty Eradication Commission located in Accra.\n\nSvanikier is known as a generous supporter of education and youth development programs, and has donated a 35-seat bus worth $64,000 to Ghana’s renowned Winneba Youth Choir.\n\nHe is also an ongoing benefactor of the Presbyterian Schools in the Accra neighborhood of Osu. He funded the installation of its clean water and sanitation systems, as well as the construction of its Primary School for girls and a modern library with a computer laboratory. The Girls’ School facilities are dedicated to the memory of his late mother, Agnes Federica Svanikier.\n\nIn December, 2014, in the midst of the Ebola outbreak in West Africa, Svani Group partnered with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in the fight against the Ebola epidemic. Svani Group donated eight heavy-duty vehicles as well as several power generators to the United Nation’s Ebola Emergency Response.\n\nIn 2015, Svanikier and his wife founded the Svanikier Public Policy Leadership Initiative, which donated $100,000 to the University of Oxford’s School of Government. The funds went towards sponsorship for six Ghanaian public officials to attend courses at the University focused on Governance and Natural Resource management.\n\nSvanikier is a descendent of a Danish family that settled in Christiansburg, Osu, in Accra.\n\nSvanikier is married and has a son and two daughters. His wife, Johanna Odonkor Svanikier, was a Fulbright Scholar who studied at Oxford and Harvard Universities. Johanna Odonkor-Svanikier is currently Ghana’s Ambassador to France, Portugal and UNESCO.\n\n"}
{"id": "36774810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36774810", "title": "Vista (event)", "text": "Vista (event)\n\nVista, is the annual international business summit hosted by IIM Bangalore. The summit spanning across three days can be defined as the \"coming together of academia and industry\". The event brings together the leaders of every field, like, marketing, finance, operations, human resources, consulting, social work, etc. and provides a platform for students to enhance knowledge in the field learning from veterans through events, competitions and case studies. The event also incorporates several guest speaker sessions and conclaves from people who have inspired generations of Indians into success.\n\nVista was hosted for the first time by IIM Bangalore in 2002. It is the oldest business festival hosted by a B-school in South India and the 4th oldest in India behind Manfest (IIM Lucknow), Intaglio (IIM Calcutta) and Confluence (IIM Ahmedabad). An important feature of Vista is its social intervention each year. Through associations with NGOs and through the social events that it holds and promotes, Vista communicates a social message too.\n\nNumero Uno, one of the flagship events of Vista, is a three-day event which provides participants a platform to put themselves in the shoes of CEOs and face challenging business situations. The event is open to students from select B-schools in India. Participants are tested on their knowledge, expertise and application in various domains like finance, strategy, marketing, operations etc. to be crowned the Numero Uno among the budding leaders of the nation.\n\nTrue to its name, Bizarre, an unconventional open quiz, gives an opportunity to the corporates and students alike in the domain of quizzing by cashing in on their business knowledge and fundamentals. Harsha Bhogle, Derek O Brien, Gautam Bhimani, Barry O brien have donned the quiz master’s hat in previous editions of Bizarre.\n\nExcelsior is an exclusive invite only event where participants use negotiation and strategy in multiple rounds of finance, strategy and marketing to grow their firms and battle it out in the ultimate challenge of the firms.\n\nStreet Smart is an insight into the world of investment bankers and gives the participants a chance to experience mergers, acquisitions and other financial issues. The participants face many challenges in the form of pitching, be it a pitch to buy or a pitch to sell, to win the title of master negotiator by sealing the ultimate deal.\n\nFinesse is a multi-year simulation game with elements of case analysis spanning the whole life of a private equity investment right from entry, to management, on to exit. The event is a test of the participants' judgement, strategy and risk-taking abilities.\n\nBzzwings, is an open theme B-plan contest is a chance for the participants to fulfil their entrepreneurial dreams. The selected teams for the final round are provided mentoring by Vista’s Knowledge Partners to assist them in their preparations and spruce up their plans before entering the contest. The winning team takes home not only the prize money but also an opportunity of incubation of the plan.\n\nBiztrotter is a unique online quizzing event that happens a week before Vista which takes the participants on a virtual tour of more than 40 cities across the world by simply answering questions pertaining to the business and economy of the respective regions. The event has participation of 1500+ from different parts of the world.\n\nThe 2012 Vista was modelled on the theme \"Challenge Convention, Transform Tomorrow\" and was held from 28 to 30 September on the campus. Tata Administrative Services (TAS) continued to be the title sponsor this year, along with being a flagship event sponsor too. The inaugural ceremony was presided over by Dr. Devanath Tirupati, dean- academic, IIM Bangalore. The other dignitaries for the inaugural ceremony were Dr. Devi Shetty, founder, Narayana Hrudayalaya Multi-Specialty Hospital and Mr. Ajoy Chawla, vice president and Global Business Head- Titan. The three day fest saw a multitude of events being conducted including the flagship events. This gave an opportunity to the participants to learn about the many facets of the managerial world. Influential personalities who had challenged social conventions in some form or the other visited the campus to interact with students. Some of the stalwarts on the list were the Indian chess grandmaster, Tania Sachdev, CEO of JP Morgan India Kalpana Morparia, singer Neha Bhasin were a part of the Media Conclave. This marked an apt conclusion to Vista 2012, with the audience being inspired to make a difference by challenging convention, through insight into the lives of these dignitaries.\n\nWith its theme, \"Be the change\", Vista 2011 was held from 30 September to 2 October. The title sponsor for this year was the Tata Administrative Services (TAS). The festival was inaugurated through speeches from several stalwarts from the industry, academia and politics. The guest speakers included Mr. J P Narayan, the political leader from Andhra Pradesh, Mr. Bhaskar Bhatt, the managing director of Titan, and Mr. N S Ramaswamy, the founder of IIM Bangalore. Vista 2011 also hosted several celebrities and individuals of opinion who have \"been a change\", either through their thought or work. Vista served as an interface between these trend setters and trend breakers, and the students of IIM, Bangalore through a Media Conclave where the guests shared their experiences and learnings through life and discussed and debated on the theme \"Be the change\". The celebrities who visited IIM, Bangalore during Vista, 2011 for the Vista Media Conclave were Ms. Nandita Das, Mr. Narain Kartikeyan and Justice Hegde. Vista 2011 partnered with Wishberry to help support a social cause in sync with the main theme wherein an online contribution to the Vista-NGO Fund could be made and the contribution was used for the benefit of the NGOs namely, Samarthanam, Snehasadan and Seva-In-Action which are supported by IIM Bangalore. Vista 2011 also organized social events like the \"Run for change\" where the IIM Bangalore student community under the Vista banner and took a lap of the IIM Bangalore campus. The students wore T-shirts and carried banners and through press coverage sang out the message of \"Be the change\" for the world to hear.\n\nVista 2010-11 was held in October. It was an opportunity to discuss India’s metamorphosis from a key regional player to a global player and the challenges and issues faced in the process under the theme \"Scripting the future\". The fest was a forum for exchange of views on the topic by eminent personalities across all fields. Mr. Arun Shourie, Gul Panag, Mr. M J Akbar, Ms. Shobhaa De were some of the prominent personalities who graced the occasion. The fest had a range of flagship events like Numero Uno, Software Czars, Darwin’s Darling, Optimus covering spread across fields of marketing, social responsibility, strategy etc. Hence, Vista gave an opportunity to the participants to foresee the future and play their part in \"Scripting the future\".\n\nVista 2010 was held in January. Recognizing the fact that in the 21st century, global warming and climate change were the most compelling problems for the world, Vista 2010, as one of India's premier business fests, decided to go green. The theme for this year was \"India at the crossroads\". There were a range of events spanning marketing, strategy, finance and social responsibility. Vista also served as a platform for discussion on the theme by prominent personalities like Mani Shankar Aiyar, Meera Sanyal and Rohan Parikh to develop new road maps for encouraging inclusive growth and to find ways in which the corporate sector could catalyse this metamorphosis and help India ease into the right path with everyone on board.\n\n‘Emerging economies. Emerging realities’ was the theme of 2008 edition of Vista that explored the beginnings of these economies and their rise to prominence and their struggles. The title sponsor was AT & T along with a host of partners including Tata, ONGC, NTPC etc. The fest saw prominent personalities like Rajat Sharma, Gurcharan Das, Jayanta Roy- Principal Adviser, CII; Manab Majumdar, Senior Director of FICCI; provide their insights on the on emerging economies particularly in the Asian context. Various events held across 3 days like Numero Uno, Retailer, Papyrus etc. were highlights of the fest.\n\nBased on the theme of ‘Redefine, ReDiscover, ReFocus and Rebusiness’, Vista 2007 was all about exploring new frontiers of innovation in management, strategy, human resources, finance and marketing. This edition of Vista had the presence of eminent speakers including Arnab Goswami, Editor-in-chief, Times Now; Jehangir S. Pocha, Editor, BusinessWorld; Surendra Jain, MD, Sequoia Capital India; Shankar Narayanan, MD, Carlyle PE India and Sri Rajan, Partner, Bain & Co. T. V. Mohandas Pai, Member of the Board and Head – Administration, Human Resources and Education & Research at Infosys delivered the keynote address at the management conclave\n\nVista 2006 was centered on the theme of ‘Business Beyond Boundaries’ and was held on 13, 14 and 15 October. The fest saw participation from over 100 business schools and universities from all over India and over 6000 online participants. There was a wide range of events including the Keynote Speaker Address, Panel Discussion, Media Conclave, Workshops, Games, Paper Presentations, the Biz-Quiz and many others. Doug Bailie, CEO, Unilever; Brooks Entwistle, CEO, Goldman Sachs; N Ram, editor, The Hindu were some of the key speakers.\n\nVista 2005 was centered on the idea 'India Inc. - Dream, Explore, Discover' and explored to create a road map for the future of Indian corporations. The summit was inaugurated by Mr. Mukesh Ambani. Vista ’05 was organized along the lines of a case study and the discussions addressed the theme with the help of the various verticals such as marketing, finance, operations, strategy, systems and economics. The keynote addresses took place in the form of an intense panel discussion between the President of NASCOMM - Mr. Kiran Karnik, CEO of Biocon Group - Ms. Kiran Majumdar Shaw and the MD and Vice Chairman of ABB - Mr. Ravi Uppal moderated by Mckinsey. It attracted about 8000 footfalls over 3 days and participation from 400+ students from over 70 business schools and 200 of India's best postgraduate and undergraduate colleges.\n\n\"Beyond Vision Statements-Mission Execution\" was the theme of Vista 2003 which focussed on the practical issues faced by the companies in translating their vision into reality. Corporate Partnerships included enduring alliances with leading companies like Tata Sons, ITC, Tata Motors, Sify and Hutch. There was participation not only from premier B-Schools in India but also from prominent international schools like London Business School, Graduate School of Business, University of Chicago, McGill, UCLA and NYU Stern. Activities ranging from presentations by academic experts and senior managers in the panel discussion being conducted by CNBC, to the business quiz being hosted by Siddhartha Basu, Vista gave the participants an opportunity to actively discuss their experiences, contribute insights on the issues faced by corporate India and challenge their intellect in stimulating informal sessions.\n\nVISTA 2002 was flagged off by Mr. Kumar Mangalam Birla, Chairman, Aditya Birla Group. The fest attracted a host of corporate sponsors including HUL, ITC, Standard Chartered, Tata Group and Colgate Palmolive. A host of events –Ad-Age, Manifestations, Money Matters, Bizarre were conducted and there was participation from premier B-Schools in the country including IIMA, IIMC, NITIE and S. P. Jain. Three days of action and learning were aided by the synergy of the corporate world, management students from around the country and academia. It truly lived up to its theme for the year, \"Making the Connection\".\n\n"}
{"id": "55591593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55591593", "title": "W. Howard Chase", "text": "W. Howard Chase\n\nW. Howard Chase (1910 – September 8, 2003) was the founding member of the Public Relations Society of America, was recognized as No. 9 in the top 10 most influential PR professionals of all time according to a University of Michigan Study in 1970. Born 1910, Chase was noted for being \"extremely effective in directing attention to chancing trends\". Chase wrote \"Issue Management: Origins of the Future\" in 1983. Chase was the director of public relations at General Foods, and then moved to Minneapolis and worked at General Mills from 1941 to 1945. He helped to start the Public Relations Society of America in 1947.\n"}
{"id": "433679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=433679", "title": "Walter A. Shewhart", "text": "Walter A. Shewhart\n\nWalter Andrew Shewhart (pronounced like \"shoe-heart\",\nMarch 18, 1891 – March 11, 1967) was an American physicist, engineer and statistician, sometimes known as the \"father of statistical quality control\" and also related to the Shewhart cycle.\n\nW. Edwards Deming said of him:\n\nAs a statistician, he was, like so many of the rest of us, self-taught, on a good background of physics and mathematics.\n\nBorn in New Canton, Illinois to Anton and Esta Barney Shewhart, he attended the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign before being awarded his doctorate in physics from the University of California, Berkeley in 1917. He married Edna Elizabeth Hart, daughter of William Nathaniel and Isabelle \"Ibie\" Lippencott Hart on August 4, 1914 in Pike County, Illinois.\n\nBell Telephone’s engineers had been working to improve the reliability of their transmission systems. In order to impress government regulators of this natural monopoly with the high quality of their service, Shewhart's first assignment was to improve the voice clarity of the carbon transmitters in the company's telephone handsets. Later he applied his statistical methods to the final installation of central station switching systems, then to factory production. When Shewhart joined the Western Electric Company Inspection Engineering Department at the Hawthorne Works in 1918, industrial quality was limited to inspecting finished products and removing defective items. That all changed on May 16, 1924. Shewhart's boss, George D. Edwards, recalled: \"Dr. Shewhart prepared a little memorandum only about a page in length. About a third of that page was given over to a simple diagram which we would all recognize today as a schematic control chart. That diagram, and the short text which preceded and followed it, set forth all of the essential principles and considerations which are involved in what we know today as process quality control.\" Shewhart's work pointed out the importance of reducing variation in a manufacturing process and the understanding that continual process-adjustment in reaction to non-conformance actually increased variation and degraded quality.\n\nShewhart framed the problem in terms of assignable-cause and chance-cause variation and introduced the control chart as a tool for distinguishing between the two. Shewhart stressed that bringing a production process into a state of statistical control, where there is only chance-cause variation, and keeping it in control, is necessary to predict future output and to manage a process economically. Dr. Shewhart created the basis for the control chart and the concept of a state of statistical control by carefully designed experiments. While Dr. Shewhart drew from pure mathematical statistical theories, he understood data from physical processes never produce a \"normal distribution curve\" (a Gaussian distribution, also commonly called a \"bell curve\"). He discovered that observed variation in manufacturing data did not always behave the same way as data in nature (Brownian motion of particles). Dr. Shewhart concluded that while every process displays variation, some processes display controlled variation that is natural to the process, while others display uncontrolled variation that is not present in the process causal system at all times.\n\nShewhart worked to advance the thinking at Bell Telephone Laboratories from their foundation in 1925 until his retirement in 1956, publishing a series of papers in the \"Bell System Technical Journal\".\n\nHis work was summarized in his book \"Economic Control of Quality of Manufactured Product\" (1931).\n\nShewhart’s charts were adopted by the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) in 1933 and advocated to improve production during World War II in American War Standards Z1.1-1941, Z1.2-1941 and Z1.3-1942.\n\nFrom the late 1930s onwards, Shewhart's interests expanded out from industrial quality to wider concerns in science and statistical inference. The title of his second book, \"Statistical Method from the Viewpoint of Quality Control\" (1939), asks the audacious question: \"What can statistical practice, and science in general, learn from the experience of industrial quality control?\"\n\nShewhart's approach to statistics was radically different from that of many of his contemporaries. He possessed a strong operationalist outlook, largely absorbed from the writings of pragmatist philosopher Clarence Irving Lewis, and this influenced his statistical practice. In particular, he had read Lewis' \"Mind and the World Order\" many times. Though he lectured in England in 1932 under the sponsorship of Karl Pearson (another committed operationalist) his ideas attracted little enthusiasm within the English statistical tradition. The British Standards nominally based on his work, in fact, diverge on serious philosophical and methodological issues from his practice.\n\nHis more conventional work led him to formulate the statistical idea of tolerance intervals and to propose his data presentation rules, which are listed below:\n\n\nWalter Shewhart visited India in 1947–1948 under the sponsorship of P. C. Mahalanobis of the Indian Statistical Institute. He toured the country, held conferences and stimulated interest in statistical quality control among Indian industrialists.\n\nHe died at Troy Hills, New Jersey in 1967.\n\nIn 1938 his work came to the attention of physicists W. Edwards Deming and Raymond T. Birge. The two had been deeply intrigued by the issue of measurement error in science and had published a landmark paper in \"Reviews of Modern Physics\" in 1934. On reading of Shewhart's insights, they wrote to the journal to wholly recast their approach in the terms that Shewhart advocated.\n\nThe encounter began a long collaboration between Shewhart and Deming that involved work on productivity during World War II and Deming's championing of Shewhart's ideas in Japan from 1950 onwards. Deming developed some of Shewhart's methodological proposals around scientific inference and named his synthesis the Shewhart cycle.\n\nTo celebrate his quasquicentennial (125th) birth Anniversary, the Quality Technology and Quantitative Management (QTQM) () journal plans to produce a special issue in early 2017 on \"Advances in the Theory and Application of Statistical Process Control\". The special issue will be edited by Prof. Min Xie of City University of Hong Kong and Dr. Amitava Mukherjee of XLRI - Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, India.\n\nIn his obituary for the American Statistical Association, Deming wrote of Shewhart:\n\nAs a man, he was gentle, genteel, never ruffled, never off his dignity. He knew disappointment and frustration, through failure of many writers in mathematical statistics to understand his point of view.\n\nHe was founding editor of the \"Wiley Series in Mathematical Statistics\", a role that he maintained for twenty years, always championing freedom of speech and confident to publish views at variance with his own.\n\nHis honours included:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
