{"id": "4973071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4973071", "title": "AP Psychology", "text": "AP Psychology\n\nThe Advanced Placement Psychology (AP Psychology, AP Psych, or APPSY) course and corresponding exam are part of College Board's Advanced Placement Program. This course is tailored for students interested in the field of psychology and as an opportunity to earn Advanced Placement credit or exemption from a college-level psychology course. It was the shortest AP exam until the AP Physics C exam was split into two separate exams in 2006.\n\nThe College Board provides a course of study to help educators prepare their students for the AP Psychology exam. The exam covers the following 14 areas. The percentage indicates the portion of the multiple-choice section of the exam focused on each content area:\n\nThe exam includes two sections: a 70-minute multiple choice section (100 questions) and a 50-minute free response section (2 prompts). The multiple choice provides two-thirds of the grade and the free-response provides the remaining third.\n\nBeginning with the May 2011 AP Exam administration, total scores on the multiple-choice section are based only on the number of questions answered correctly. Points are no longer deducted for incorrect answers. Grading (the number of points needed to get a certain score) is slightly more strict as a result.\n\nThe exam was first held in 1992. Grade distributions for the Psychology exam scores since 2010 were:\n\n"}
{"id": "32307667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32307667", "title": "Accountable Now", "text": "Accountable Now\n\nAccountable Now is a global platform, founded in 2008 by a group of independent non-profit organisations, which is intended to foster accountability and transparency of civil society organisations (CSOs), as well as stakeholder communication and performance. It supports CSOs to be transparent, responsive to stakeholders and focused on delivering impact. \n\nAccountable Now was founded under the name International NGO Charter of Accountability by eleven leading CSOs, including development, humanitarian, environmental, rights-based and advocacy organisations. As Membership and global collaboration increase, CSOs collective voices are strengthened. Today, 29 Member Organisations are active in more than 150 countries and impact stakeholders all over the world.\n\nCSOs are more important than ever before in framing and influencing social, political and economic environments. On the national level they provide disaster relief and social service, promote self-help and self- governance in developing countries where they are operating. In addition they enhance a strong international Civil Society by creating informal but important normative regimes which are influencing international institutions in their decision-making. This greater involvement of CSOs also raises the question of how they justify their activities.\n\nCSOs have a particular interest in meeting standards on accountability and transparency in view of the responsibilities towards not only the cause which they are meant to serve, but also stakeholders of various types, including donors and sponsors (possibly comprising corporations and governments), intended program beneficiaries, staff and the general public.\n\nAccountable Now is considered a contributing element to underscoring the legitimacy of CSOs.\n\nAt the International Advocacy Non-Government Organisations (IANGO) Workshop hosted by Transparency International in June 2003, the importance of promoting accountability and legitimacy was discussed by its participants. As they recognised their growing involvement in international issues the need of promoting accountability was highlighted. The Hauser Center for Non-Profit Organisations at the Harvard University was asked for a research paper on the topic to provide a foundation for following discussions.\nAt the following annual meetings in 2004 and 2005 the participants analysed their own concepts of accountability, set up an initial draft and with the help of independent consultant specialists revised the draft until a final version was ready to launch.\n\nThe INGO Accountability Charter, signed in June 2006 by eleven leading international NGOs active in the area of human rights, environment and social development, set the course for the establishment of Accountable Now (then known as the INGO Accountability Charter) and it has been referred to as “the first ever set of international and cross-sector guidelines for the NGO sector” and the “first global accountability charter for the non-profit sector”.\n\nThe founding signatories were ActionAid International, Amnesty International, CIVICUS World Alliance for Citizen Participation, Consumers International, Greenpeace International, Oxfam International, International Save the Children Alliance, Survival International, International Federation Terre des Hommes, Transparency International and World YWCA.\n\nThe charter is \"based on ten core principles and aimed at enhancing respect for human rights, good governance, accountability and transparency, encouraging stakeholder communication, promoting inclusion and environmental responsibility, and improving organisational performance and effectiveness\". It documents the commitment of international NGOs to these aims. \n\nIn 2008, the signatory-NGOs decided to found an independent organisation of the same name \"International NGO Accountability Charter Ltd\" in order to organise the reporting and vetting process of the member organisations against the charter commitments and develop them further. Today, the organisation operates under the name Accountable Now and has 29 member organisations. \n\nIn 1997, the One World Trust had created an \"NGO Charter\", a code of conduct comprising commitment to accountability and transparency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6472500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6472500", "title": "Australian Student Prize", "text": "Australian Student Prize\n\nThe Australian Student Prize (formerly the \"Lord Florey Student Prize\") was an Australian Government prize that was awarded annually from 1991 to 2014, to give \"national recognition to academic excellence and achievement in secondary education\". Five hundred students received the award each year, which previously consisted of a certificate and cash prize. The cash prize was A$2000 until 2014, when the prize was reduced to $1000. The prize is no longer awarded as of 2015.\n\nIn the past, each State and Territory Minister for Education nominated a number of students (according to the state or territory's proportion of year 12 students) for the prize each year. Medallists from Australia's teams in the International Biology, Chemistry, Informatics, Mathematics and Physics Olympiads also received the Australian Student Prize.\n\nPrize winners were announced in the year following their completion of high school, generally in June. Names were printed in various newspapers across Australia, and were posted on the prize's website, where a list of past winners is still available.\n\n"}
{"id": "12120307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12120307", "title": "Brenda Rawnsley", "text": "Brenda Rawnsley\n\nBrenda Mary Rawnsley, Mrs. Keighley (née Hugh-Jones; 31 July 1916 in Oxford, Oxfordshire – 25 June 2007 in Milford on Sea, Hampshire) was a British arts campaigner and education activist. During World War II, she was based in North Africa as an Air Ministry Squadron Leader.\n\nBorn as Brenda Mary Hugh-Jones, daughter of Llewellyn Arthur Hugh-Jones, Governor of Faiyum in Egypt, and Dulcibella Eden, a cousin of Anthony Eden, she was educated at Queen Anne's School, Caversham. She earned a scholarship to attend Oxford University, but left without graduating, in order to join her father in Cairo.\n\nIn 1939, she enlisted in the ATS Officer Cadet training unit, but soon left to work for the Ministry of Economic Warfare in London. Through mutual friends she met Flt Lt Derek Rawnsley, who had made history by flying solo in a Tiger Moth from Australia to Oxford. In 1937 Lt Rawnsley had founded the Federal Union Movement with Charles Kimber and Patrick Ransome, seeking the unification of Europe to avoid war. Hugh-Jones and Rawnsley were married in February 1941, but he was immediately posted overseas in the RAF. By the end of 1941, Mrs Rawnsley was a Women's Auxiliary Air Force officer. Fluent in French, Arabic and Greek, she was of great importance and sent in 1942 to Heliopolis, and later, to RAF Ramleh in the then-British Mandate in Palestine. \n\nLt Rawnsley was killed in a February 1943 accident, after which Mrs Rawnsley worked with 201 Squadron, Alexandria and was subsequently posted to Algiers in February 1944 to work with Gen. Wilson, the Commander-in-Chief of the Allied Forces in the Middle East. Later she returned to England to work with Duncan Sandys, trying to forecast the course of flying bombs (V1s) and rockets (V2s). In June 1945 she was dispatched on an intelligence mission to the German flying bomb factory in the Harz Mountains, and subsequently wrote a history of the flying bomb for the Air Ministry, leaving the service with the rank of squadron leader and a variety of medals in 1945. \n\nIn 1935, with the backing of Sir Philip Sassoon, Derek Rawnsley had set up Picture Hire Ltd., which made available for rent original pictures by contemporary artists, and School Prints Ltd., which aimed to loan sets of reproductions to schools so that children could learn about the world's great works of art. With the support of Victor Bonham Carter and architect Raglan Squire she followed her late husband's goals of bringing \"good\" art to schoolchildren who otherwise would not have had the opportunity to enjoy it. \n\nIn her introductory letter to artists she wrote: \"We are producing a series of auto-lithographs, four for each term, for use in schools, as a means of giving school children an understanding of contemporary art.\" The majority of the prints were lithographed directly by almost two dozen artists and printed by the Baynard Press. To minimise framing costs, each picture included a decorative border, and they were distributed to schools in redundant cartridge cases bought from the Ministry of Supply. \n\nIn 1949 she married Geoffrey Keighley, and they had one son. The couple divorced in 1952. Brenda Keighley also continued the original idea of lending out works, expanding it in the 1950s to \"Pictures for Industry\", which offered 700 prints for display in factories and workplaces, and \"Pictures in Hospitals\". In 1971 \"The Observer\" agreed to sell the remaining stocks of the European series and the rest of the business was sold to Patrick Seale, the paper's Middle East correspondent. Rawnsley was elected to the position of Master of the \"Fine Art Trade Guild\" (1961–62). She subsequently worked as a librarian before retiring to Hampshire, where she died, aged 90.\n\n"}
{"id": "25815953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25815953", "title": "Build-A-Bird", "text": "Build-A-Bird\n\nBuild-A-Bird (1986 or earlier) was educational software for the Unisys ICON II public school computer. It may have appeared on the ICON I or Unisys ICON III.\n\nBuild-A-Bird was designed and developed by Ergonomics Lab, University of Toronto. Gameplay revolved around creating a bird by choosing from a selection of different body parts such as stork-like legs, short legs adapted to alighting on various natural surfaces, or predatory talons. Beak type and wing type were also among the changeable body part selections in Build-A-Bird. Upon selecting your preferred, various body part types the game would provide one or several real life birds that fit your selections. What happened next in the game involved educational material about your bird's range and habitat. The visual representations of the birds, their body parts and the bird habitats were in colour and vivid for the time but lacked animation.\n"}
{"id": "23580024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23580024", "title": "Business and Computing", "text": "Business and Computing\n\nA Business and Computing is a dual degree program offered jointly by some computing and business schools. The program generally lasts four-five years instead of seven-eight years to complete separate the two degrees and results in the candidate earning both a Bachelor of Business degree and a Bachelor of Computing degree. Graduating Business and Computing students may choose to work on computing/technical matter, or enter the business world, or even enjoy the gray area between business and computing fields such as IT security officer, IT consultant, etc. Even though a majority of Business and Computing graduate from a single university, there are people who earn these degrees from different universities.\n\nA course which allows you to develop both technical skills and business knowledge. Learning and understanding technical computer skills in the systems analysis and software engineering, alongside gaining experience in finance, simulation and project management.\n\nCovering computing subjects such as algorithms, software engineering, social implications of computing, data structure, operating systems and fundamental mathematics, with business subjects such as accounting, human resource management, business policy/communication, law, finance, marketing and organizational behaviour.\n\nEarning you both a Bachelor of Computer Science degree and a Bachelor of Business Administration degree.\n\n\n\nBusiness and Computing dual degrees are studied in only certain universities around the world, combined most commonly with computer science or Business Administration. countries include the United States, Canada and Singapore. Four Universities that teach the degree are:\n\nStanford Graduate School of Business located in California teaches MS in Computer Science/MBA degree which is a three-year course that will contain studying MBA courses in the first year, and both computer science and Business and in your second and third year.\n\nNew Jersey Institute of Technology located in New Jersey teaches BS in Computing and Business degree which is a four-year course that will contain both Computer Science and Business courses.\n\nUniversity of Waterloo located in Waterloo, Ontario region teaches Business Administration and Computer Science Double Degree which is a five-year course that will cover subjects from computer programming, operating systems to business communication and human resource management.\n\nNanyang Technological University located in Jurong West teaches Double Degree Programme Bachelor of Business (Information Technology) and Bachelor of Engineering (Computer Science) which is a four-year course teaching subjects from computing systems, computational thinking to strategic management, compiler techniques.\nhttp://www.psu.edu.sa\nlocated in Riyadh in Prince Sultan University which is a four years course that will cover subjects from Computer and Business\nUniversity of Zimbabwe\nLocated in Harare; capital city of Zimbabwe. Offers Honours Bachelor of Business Studies and Computing Science (HBSCT) as a four year program. This is viewed as a highly prestigious degree program reserved for top notch students. Alumni of the HBSCT program have found opportunities as Systems Analysts, Software Development Management Posts in Commercial and Financial Services, Insurance, Banking and the Public Sector, IT auditors and Digital marketing specialists. Basically they become all rounders in their areas of interest; in business and tech related fields.\n"}
{"id": "16998163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16998163", "title": "Camilla Cobb", "text": "Camilla Cobb\n\nCamilla Cobb (1843–1933) was the founder of the first kindergarten in Utah.\n\nCamilla Cobb was born Camilla Clara Mieth in Dresden, Germany. Her older sister, Anna, was married to Karl G. Maeser. Cobb joined The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1855 and emigrated to the United States with the Maeser family on the packet ship Tuscarora in 1857. She arrived in Utah in 1860.\n\nFour years later, in 1864, Camilla married James T. Cobb (1833- ), a man who had been baptized after his arrival in Utah by Karl G. Maeser. James Cobb taught under Maeser at the 15th Ward School. James and Camilla Cobb went on to become the parents of seven children.\n\nIn 1874, while in New York and surrounding areas visiting her husband's relatives, Cobb went to New Jersey and was trained as a kindergarten teacher in a system run by Adolph Douai. Upon her return to Utah in the fall of 1874 she founded a kindergarten in Salt Lake City with the help of John W. Young. The following year she wrote an article in the \"Woman's Exponent\" explaining the importance of kindergarten. She maintained her school as a kindergarten for two years, and later opened it to children of all ages. Among her students was Heber J. Grant, who would later be president of the LDS Church.\n\nWhen the Salt Lake Stake primary was first organized in 1880, Cobb was made a counselor in its presidency. She remained in this position until 1896, when she was made president of the Salt Lake Stake primary, overseeing the LDS primary in all of Salt Lake County. At that point the Salt Lake primary had 46 associations, nearly 4,000 children, and 309 adults holding teaching or other positions. Cobb served as head of the Salt Lake Stake primary until the Salt Lake Stake was divided in 1904.\n\nBeginning in 1898 Cobb served as a member of the Primary General Board. She remained on the general board until 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "36603504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36603504", "title": "Council for Higher Education in Judea and Samaria", "text": "Council for Higher Education in Judea and Samaria\n\nThe Council for Higher Education in Judea and Samaria is the body which supervises Israeli universities and colleges in the West Bank. Its authority in the West Bank is similar to that of the Council for Higher Education in Israel in Israel proper.\n\nAs Israeli law does not apply in the occupied West Bank, the Council for Higher Education in Israel has no legal standing there, so by a military decree a similar institution was formed in the West Bank to regulate the Israeli institutions of higher learning there.\n\nThe Council for Higher Education in Judea and Samaria only applies to Israeli institutions and not to Palestinian institutions which also exist in the West Bank.\n"}
{"id": "37030355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37030355", "title": "Dar al-Zahra", "text": "Dar al-Zahra\n\nDar al-Zahra was the first women's Shia seminary to be opened in Qom. It was established by grand ayatollah Mohammad Kazem Shariatmadari, who opened it in 1973 as a section of his hawza Dar al-Tabligh.\n\nBy 1975, Dar al-Zahra already counted 150 female students, taught by male teachers from behind a curtain.\n\nWith the fall-out between Mohammad Kazem Shariatmadari and Khomeini, the seminary was closed and Shariatmadari was placed under house arrest.\n\nDar al-Zahra was run by Fatemeh Amini. After Dar al-Tabligh was closed, she opened a number of other women's seminaries in Tehran.\n"}
{"id": "6090728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6090728", "title": "De La Salle University College of Computer Studies", "text": "De La Salle University College of Computer Studies\n\nThe College of Computer Studies (CCS) is one of the seven colleges of De La Salle University. It was established in 1981 as the Center for Planning, Information, and Computer Science offering only a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science. The department was formally declared as a college in 1984. In 1990, the college was transferred to its new building, the INTELLECT (Information Technology Lecture) Building, which was eventually renamed as the Gokongwei Building. In 1996 the college was granted semi-autonomous status along with the Graduate School of Business which led into the establishment of De La Salle-Professional Schools, Inc.. The college became a part of De La Salle Professional Schools but later transferred back to the university.\n\nThe BS Computer Science program of the college was the first Computer Science program in the country to be given accreditation by the Philippine Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges, and Universities in 1989. It was granted a Level II accreditation in 1993, and was re-accredited to Level II in 1998. In 2000, the college was named as one of the Commission on Higher Education's Center of Development and Excellence in Information Technology. In 2005, the Computer Science program of the college received a Level III accreditation by PAASCU, becoming the first Level III Accredited Computer Science Program in the Philippines . It is the highest accreditation granted in the Philippines to this date for Computer Science programs. In March 2007, the Commission on Higher Education recognized the college as Center of Excellence in Information Technology.\n\nFormerly known as Advanced Research Institute for Computing (AdRIC), the Advanced Research Institute for Informatics, Computing and Networking is the research center of the college. The aim of the center is to produce both local and international researches through faculty researchers. The center was established in 1994 to facilitate research directives of the college. It also has its research laboratories on the fourth floor of the Gokongwei Hall. The following are the activities done by the center:\n\nThe Center for Complexity and Emerging Technologies (COMET) is a multidisciplinary research and professional laboratory at the College of Computer Studies that investigates the science of complex adaptive systems and explores innovative ways of interacting with computing solutions. Aside from performing research, the center also functions as a development laboratory for the creation of various civic computing solutions, integrating research done internally.\n\nCOMET is currently composed of lead researchers, cohorts, and research assistants. The lead researchers come from the fields of computing, statistics, mathematics and physics. The cohorts and research assistants are students from the different programs and specializations under the College of Computer Studies. The research lab also leverages its research in complex adaptive systems and computer-human interaction with the development of civic computing solutions. It also provides avenues for the professional growth of its lead researchers and cohorts.\n\nThe lab has three divisions, namely: Complex Systems, Seamless Interactions (Human-Computer Interaction), and Civic Services.\n\nConsulting and Education Center is a continuing non-degree computer training center of the college currently headed by Engr. Jesus Gonzalez. The center provides quality education for both professionals and students. Included in its services are corporate trainings, tutorials, and summer classes catering children, secondary students, and professionals. As an academic center of the college, it also holds seminars and major conferences such as the Emerging Technologies for Philippines 2020 (ETFP) held last April 17–18, 2006 at the New World Renaissance Hotel.\n\nThe college is the Cisco Academy Training Center for Expanded Courses (Sponsored Curriculum) or CATC-SC of the country. The center is responsible for conducting trainings on sponsored curriculum courses such as Fundamentals of Unix, Fundamentals of Java, IT Essentials, and Voice and Data Cabling. Under DLSU, trainings for sponsored curriculum courses are categorized into two: instructor and professional trainings.\n\nThe Center for Empathic Human-Computer Interactions laboratory investigates the problem of multimodal emotion modeling and empathic response modeling to build human-centered design systems. By multimodal, we mean we recognize a human’s emotion based on facial expressions, speech, and movement (such as posture and gait). Because we extend a computing system from a software to a physical space, novel approaches to providing empathic responses are required. To achieve this, we use emotion-based interactions together with sensor-rich, ubiquitous computing and ambient intelligence.\n\nCurrently, we are focused on the development of a self-improving, ambient intelligent empathic space. It is a three-year project funded by the Philippine Government's Department of Science and Technology - Philippine Council for Advanced Science and Technology Research and Development. It is on its first year with an initial grant of PhP 3,300,000.\n\n\nComputer Technology emphasizes the fundamental concepts of electronics, the theory and use of analog and digital components, the analysis and design of combinational and sequential digital circuits and the techniques required in order to interface a microprocessor to memories, input-output ports and other devices or to other microprocessors.\n\nInformation Technology focuses on the study, design, implementation, and evaluation of information systems for organizations. This program aims to make the student capable of recognizing problems that are amenable to computer solutions. It also covers the study of management and organizations in order to bridge the gap between specialists and decision-makers in the preparation of support systems development.\n\nSoftware Technology features courses designed to provide students with a deeper understanding of the design and analysis of computer algorithms, thus strengthening their ability to write correct and efficient programs. It integrates software engineering into major courses in a way that students are able to apply and discover different methodologies appropriate for different software projects.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21798716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21798716", "title": "Dhananjayans", "text": "Dhananjayans\n\nVannadil Pudiyaveettil Dhananjayan (born 17 April 1939) and Shanta Dhananjayan (born 12 August 1943), also known as the Dhananjayans, are a dancing couple of India.\n\nV.P Dhananjayan was born into a Malayali Poduval family on 17 April 1939 in Payyanur, Kannur District, Kerala, India. He was born into a family with eight children struggling to make ends meet, when a chance meeting with Kathakali Master Guru Chandu Panicker of Kalakshetra made his father decide purely on instinct to send his son and V.Balagopalan to Kalakshetra under his tutelage. Dhananjayan joined Kalakshetra on 5 October 1953 and was a leading male dance under Rukmini Devi (founder of Kalakshetra) from 1955–1967. He graduated from Kalakshetra with a Post Graduate Diploma in Dance (Bharatanatyam and Kathakali) with distinction, and also holds a B.A in Economics and Politics. \n\nShanta Dhananjayan was born on 12 August 1943 into a well-to-do Malayali Nair family in Malaysia and traces her ancestry back to Kerala from where her family migrated to Malaysia. She was a child prodigy and by the time she was 3, her parents were convinced that Shanta would be a dancer. They found in her an inborn response to dance and joy of movement and decided to send her to India for her education. They sent her at age eight to Kalakshetra in June 1952, a year before Dhananjayan, where she later graduated with a Post-Graduate Diploma with distinction in Bharatanatyam and also learned Kathakali and Carnatic music. She was a leading female dancer at Kalakshetra from 1955–1968.\n\nThe couple have two sons. The elder, Sanjay, lives in the USA and their younger son, Satyajit, is an accomplished automobile photographer and dancer who lives with his wife and son in Chennai, India.\n\nWere it not for providence in the form of Guru Chandu Panicker, Dhananjayan would have been working in some monotonous job in Kerala. Dhananjayan received a scholarship at Kalakshetra to study Bharatanatyam, Kathakali, Mridangam and music. Shanta trained in Bharatanatyam and music apart from other subjects for nearly a decade. They believe that whatever they have been able to achieve today is due to the painstaking mentoring of their Gurus Rukmini Devi Arundale and Chandu Panicker and various other faculty members of Kalakshetra such as NS Jayalakshmi and Sarada Hoffman.\n\nWhile at Kalakshetra, it was love at first sight for Dhananjayan. Shanta was the first girl he met as he was being escorted into the portals of Kalakshetra by Guru Panicker. Though Shanta was a serious student completely devoted to her dance and music, she had secretly made up her mind, at the age of 12, to partner Dhananjayan in life. Dhananjayan expressed his desire to marry Shanta when she was 18, but she left for Malaysia after graduation and did not let him know of her consent till after returning to India 4 years later. They married in 1966 at the Guruvayoor Temple in Kerala.\n\nThe Dhananjayans left Kalakshetra in the late 1960s to build a career on their own. During that time, only the wealthy and aristocrats who could spend to have their own children perform, dominated the dance scene in Chennai. However, the calibre of the Dhananjayans was such that they stole the thunder with their novel ideas that they brought to their presentations through a unique repertoire that they developed. The vitality of dance, their costumes, the attraction of merging of the male and female dance principles in specially conceived duets were all part of the charisma of their performances. They started to receive invitations from both within the country and from abroad. They have travelled all over the world to major cultural centres to present their art.\n\nSome of their major performances/productions include:\n\nThe Dhananjayans place particular emphasis on imparting Indian tradition and culture to their bharata natyam students. Some details about which they are particular are:\n\nThe Dhananjayans started their own dance school \"Bharata Kalanjali\" in 1968 in Adyar, Chennai. It began with a handful of students, and is today a premier academy of dance and music with several hundreds of students and a repertory fashioned out of its own students and graduates.\n\nThe couple has established an academy of arts at Dhananjayan's birthplace Payyanur in Kerala. They conducted an annual summer Naatya Gurukulam camp which is no longer in operation.\n\nThe Dhananjayans have been conducting an annual summer gurukulam camp at the Satchidananda Ashram, Yogaville, Virginia, USA, since 1988. Developed by the Natya Adyayana Gurukulam, the camp is an intensive, full-time residential course devoted entirely to the fine arts. Situated in the Virginia countryside, it is attended by Indian-American and international students. The teachers endeavour through it to spread awareness to their students of Indian culture, values, and explicate the philosophy underlying Hinduism.\n\nSome of the major awards and accolades conferred on the Dhananjayans:\n\nDhananjayan has the reputation of voicing his views and is very forthright in speaking out about social and political issues. His recent publication \"Beyond performing art and culture\", discusses various social and political issues concerning present day India or Bhaaratam, the way he urges everyone to call the country.\n\nV.P Dhananjayan is a prolific writer and writes not only on dance but also on social and political issues. His publications include:\n"}
{"id": "8305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8305", "title": "Dyslexia", "text": "Dyslexia\n\nDyslexia, also known as reading disorder, is characterized by trouble with reading despite normal intelligence. Different people are affected to varying degrees. Problems may include difficulties in spelling words, reading quickly, writing words, \"sounding out\" words in the head, pronouncing words when reading aloud and understanding what one reads. Often these difficulties are first noticed at school. When someone who previously could read loses their ability, it is known as alexia. The difficulties are involuntary and people with this disorder have a normal desire to learn.\nDyslexia is believed to be caused by both genetic and environmental factors. Some cases run in families. It often occurs in people with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and is associated with similar difficulties with numbers. It may begin in adulthood as the result of a traumatic brain injury, stroke, or dementia. The underlying mechanisms of dyslexia are problems within the brain's language processing. Dyslexia is diagnosed through a series of tests of memory, spelling, vision, and reading skills. Dyslexia is separate from reading difficulties caused by hearing or vision problems or by insufficient teaching.\nTreatment involves adjusting teaching methods to meet the person's needs. While not curing the underlying problem, it may decrease the degree of symptoms. Treatments targeting vision are not effective. Dyslexia is the most common learning disability and occurs in all areas of the world. It affects 3–7% of the population, however, up to 20% may have some degree of symptoms. While dyslexia is more often diagnosed in men, it has been suggested that it affects men and women equally. Some believe that dyslexia should be best considered as a different way of learning, with both benefits and downsides.\nDyslexia is thought to have two types of cause, one related to language processing and another to visual processing. It is considered a cognitive disorder, not a problem with intelligence. However, emotional problems often arise because of it. Some published definitions are purely descriptive, whereas others propose causes. The latter usually cover a variety of reading skills and deficits, and difficulties with distinct causes rather than a single condition. The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke definition describes dyslexia as \"difficulty with phonological processing (the manipulation of sounds), spelling, and/or rapid visual-verbal responding\". The British Dyslexia Association definition describes dyslexia as \"a learning difficulty that primarily affects the skills involved in accurate and fluent word reading and spelling\" and is characterized by \"difficulties in phonological awareness, verbal memory and verbal processing speed\".\n\nAcquired dyslexia or alexia may be caused by brain damage due to stroke or atrophy. Forms of alexia include pure alexia, surface dyslexia, semantic dyslexia, phonological dyslexia, and deep dyslexia.\n\nThere is some variability in the definition of dyslexia. Some sources, such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health, define it specifically as a learning disorder. Other sources, however, define it simply as an inability to read in the context of normal intelligence, and distinguish between \"developmental dyslexia\" (a learning disorder) and \"acquired dyslexia\" (loss of the ability to read caused by brain damage). ICD 10, the manual of medical diagnosis used in much of the world, includes separate diagnoses for \"developmental dyslexia\" (81.0) and for \"dyslexia and alexia\" (48.0). DSM 5, the manual of psychiatric diagnosis used in the United States, does not specifically define dyslexia, justifying this decision by stating that \"the many definitions of dyslexia and dyscalculia meant those terms would not be useful as disorder names or in the diagnostic \ncriteria\". Instead it includes dyslexia in a category called specific learning disorders.\n\nIn early childhood, symptoms that correlate with a later diagnosis of dyslexia include delayed onset of speech and a lack of phonological awareness, as well as being easily distracted by background noise. A common myth closely associates dyslexia with mirror writing and reading letters or words backwards. These behaviors are seen in many children as they learn to read and write, and are not considered to be defining characteristics of dyslexia.\n\nSchool-age children with dyslexia may exhibit signs of difficulty in identifying or generating rhyming words, or counting the number of syllables in words – both of which depend on phonological awareness. They may also show difficulty in segmenting words into individual sounds or may blend sounds when producing words, indicating reduced phonemic awareness. Difficulties with word retrieval or naming things is also associated with dyslexia. People with dyslexia are commonly poor spellers, a feature sometimes called dysorthographia or dysgraphia, which depends on orthographic coding.\n\nProblems persist into adolescence and adulthood and may accompany difficulties with summarizing stories, memorization, reading aloud, or learning foreign languages. Adults with dyslexia can often read with good comprehension, though they tend to read more slowly than others without a learning difficulty and perform worse in spelling tests or when reading nonsense words – a measure of phonological awareness.\n\nThe orthographic complexity of a language directly impacts how difficult learning to read the language is. English and French have comparatively \"deep\" phonemic orthographies within the Latin alphabet writing system, with complex structures employing spelling patterns on several levels: letter-sound correspondence, syllables, and morphemes. Languages such as Spanish, Italian and Finnish have mostly alphabetic orthographies, which primarily employ letter-sound correspondence – so-called shallow orthographies – which for dyslexics makes them easier to learn. Logographic writing systems, such as Chinese characters, have extensive symbol use, and pose problems for dyslexic learners.\n\nDyslexia is often accompanied by several learning disabilities, but it is unclear whether they share underlying neurological causes. These associated disabilities include:\n\nResearchers have been trying to find the neurobiological basis of dyslexia since the condition was first identified in 1881. For example, some have tried to associate the common problem among dyslexics of not being able to see letters clearly to abnormal development of their visual nerve cells.\n\nModern neuroimaging techniques such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) have shown a correlation between both functional and structural differences in the brains of children with reading difficulties. Some dyslexics show less electrical activation in parts of the left hemisphere of the brain involved with reading, such as the inferior frontal gyrus, inferior parietal lobule, and the middle and ventral temporal cortex. Over the past decade, brain activation studies using PET to study language have produced a breakthrough in the understanding of the neural basis of language. Neural bases for the visual lexicon and for auditory verbal short-term memory components have been proposed, with some implication that the observed neural manifestation of developmental dyslexia is task-specific (i.e. functional rather than structural). fMRIs in dyslexics have provided important data which point to the interactive role of the cerebellum and cerebral cortex as well as other brain structures.\n\nThe cerebellar theory of dyslexia proposes that impairment of cerebellum-controlled muscle movement affects the formation of words by the tongue and facial muscles, resulting in the fluency problems that are characteristic of some dyslexics. The cerebellum is also involved in the automatization of some tasks, such as reading. The fact that some dyslexic children have motor task and balance impairments has been used as evidence for a cerebellar role in their reading difficulties. However, the cerebellar theory is not supported by controlled research studies.\n\nResearch into potential genetic causes of dyslexia has its roots in post-autopsy examination of the brains of people with dyslexia. Observed anatomical differences in the language centers of such brains include microscopic cortical malformations known as ectopias, more rarely, vascular micro-malformations, and microgyrus. The previously cited studies and others suggest that abnormal cortical development presumed to occur before or during the sixth month of fetal brain development was the cause of the abnormalities. Abnormal cell formations in dyslexics have also been reported in non-language cerebral and subcortical brain structures. Several genes have been associated with dyslexia, including DCDC2 and KIAA0319 on chromosome 6, and DYX1C1 on chromosome 15.\n\nThe contribution of gene–environment interaction to reading disability has been intensely studied using twin studies, which estimate the proportion of variance associated with a person's environment and the proportion associated with their genes. Studies examining the influence of environmental factors such as parental education and teacher quality have determined that genetics have greater influence in supportive, rather than less optimal, environments. However, more optimal conditions may just allow those genetic risk factors to account for more of the variance in outcome because the environmental risk factors have been minimized. As environment plays a large role in learning and memory, it is likely that epigenetic modifications play an important role in reading ability. Animal experiments and measures of gene expression and methylation in the human periphery are used to study epigenetic processes; however, both types of study have many limitations in the extrapolation of results for application to the human brain.\n\nThe dual-route theory of reading aloud was first described in the early 1970s. This theory suggests that two separate mental mechanisms, or cognitive routes, are involved in reading aloud. One mechanism is the lexical route, which is the process whereby skilled readers can recognize known words by sight alone, through a \"dictionary\" lookup procedure. The other mechanism is the nonlexical or sublexical route, which is the process whereby the reader can \"sound out\" a written word. This is done by identifying the word's constituent parts (letters, phonemes, graphemes) and applying knowledge of how these parts are associated with each other, for example, how a string of neighboring letters sound together. The dual-route system could explain the different rates of dyslexia occurrence between different languages (e.g. the Spanish language dependence on phonological rules accounts for the fact that Spanish-speaking children show a higher level of performance in non-word reading, when compared to English-speakers).\n\nDyslexia disorder is not caused by mutation in one gene; in fact, it appears to involve the combined effects of several genes. Studying the cognitive problems associated with other disorders helps to better understand the genotype-phenotype link of dyslexia. Neurophysiological and imaging procedures are being used to ascertain phenotypic characteristics in dyslexics, thus identifying the effects of certain genes.\n\nThere are tests that can indicate with high probability whether a person is a dyslexic. If diagnostic testing indicates that a person may be dyslexic, such tests are often followed up with a full diagnostic assessment to determine the extent and nature of the disorder. Tests can be administered by a teacher or computer. Some test results indicate how to carry out teaching strategies.\n\nCentral dyslexias include surface dyslexia, semantic dyslexia, phonological dyslexia, and deep dyslexia. ICD-10 reclassified the previous distinction between dyslexia (315.02 in ICD-9) and alexia (315.01 in ICD-9) into a single classification as R48.0. The terms are applied to developmental dyslexia and inherited dyslexia along with developmental aphasia and inherited alexia, which are considered synonymous.\n\nIn surface dyslexia, words with regular pronunciations (highly consistent with their spelling, e.g. \"mint\") are read more accurately than words with irregular pronunciation, such as \"colonel\". Difficulty distinguishing homophones is a diagnostic used for some forms of surface dyslexia. This disorder is usually accompanied by surface agraphia and fluent aphasia. Acquired surface dyslexia arises when a previously literate person experiences brain damage, which results in pronunciation errors that indicate impairment of the lexical route.\n\nIn phonological dyslexia, sufferers can read familiar words but have difficulty with unfamiliar words, such as invented pseudo-words. Phonological dyslexia is associated with lesions in the parts of the brain supplied with blood by the middle cerebral artery. The superior temporal lobe is often also involved. Furthermore, dyslexics compensate by overusing a front-brain region called Broca's area, which is associated with aspects of language and speech. The Lindamood Phoneme Sequencing Program (LiPS) is used to treat phonological dyslexia. This system is based on a three-way sensory feedback process, using auditory, visual, and oral skills to learn to recognize words and word patterns. Case studies with a total of three patients found a significant improvement in spelling and reading ability after using LiPS.\n\nIndividuals with deep dyslexia experience both semantic paralexia (para-dyslexia) and phonological dyslexia, causing the person to read a word and then say a related meaning instead of the denoted meaning. Deep dyslexia is associated with clear phonological processing impairments. Deep dyslexia is caused by widespread damage to the brain that often includes the left hemisphere. The \"continuum\" hypothesis claims that deep dyslexia develops from phonological dyslexia.\n\nPeripheral dyslexias have been described as affecting the visual analysis of letters as a result of brain injury. Hemianopsia, a visual field loss on the left/right side of the vertical midline, is associated with this condition.\n\nPure, or phonologically-based, dyslexia, also known as agnosic dyslexia, dyslexia without agraphia, and pure word blindness, is dyslexia due to difficulty in recognizing written sequences of letters (such as words), or sometimes even letters. It is considered '\"pure\" because it is not accompanied by other significant language-related impairments. Pure dyslexia does not affect speech, handwriting style, language or comprehension impairments. Pure dyslexia is caused by lesions on the visual word form area (VWFA). The VWFA is composed of the left lateral occipital sulcus and is activated during reading. A lesion in the VWFA stops transmission between the visual cortex and the left angular gyrus. It can also be caused by a lesion involving the left occipital lobe or the splenium. It is usually accompanied by a homonymous hemianopsia in the right side of the visual field. Multiple oral re-reading (MOR) is a treatment for pure dyslexia. It is considered a top-down processing technique in which affected individuals read and reread texts a predetermined number of times or until reading speed or accuracy improves a predetermined amount.\n\nHemianopic dyslexia is commonly considered to derive from visual field loss due to damage to the primary visual cortex. Sufferers may complain of abnormally slow reading but are able to read individual words normally. This is the most common form of peripheral alexia, and the form with the best evidence of effective treatments.\n\nIn neglect dyslexia, some letters, most commonly those at the beginning or left side of a word, are skipped or misread during reading. This alexia is associated with right parietal lesions. The use of prism glasses has been shown to mitigate this condition substantially.\n\nPeople with attentional dyslexia complain of letter-crowding or migration, sometimes blending elements of two words into one. Sufferers read better when words are presented in isolation rather than flanked by other words and letters. Using a large magnifying glass may help mitigate this condition by reducing the effects of flanking from nearby words; however, no trials of this or indeed any other therapy for left parietal syndromes have been published as of 2014.\n\nThrough the use of compensation strategies, therapy and educational support, dyslexic individuals can learn to read and write. There are techniques and technical aids which help to manage or conceal symptoms of the disorder. Removing stress and anxiety alone can sometimes improve written comprehension. For dyslexia intervention with alphabet-writing systems, the fundamental aim is to increase a child's awareness of correspondences between graphemes (letters) and phonemes (sounds), and to relate these to reading and spelling by teaching how sounds blend into words. It has been found that reinforced collateral training focused on reading and spelling yields longer-lasting gains than oral phonological training alone. Early intervention that is done for children at a young age can be successful in reducing reading failure.\n\nThere is some evidence that the use of specially-tailored fonts may help with dyslexia. These fonts, which include Dyslexie, OpenDyslexic, and Lexie Readable, were created based on the idea that many of the letters of the Latin alphabet are visually similar and may, therefore, confuse people with dyslexia. Dyslexie and OpenDyslexic both put emphasis on making each letter more distinctive in order to be more easily identified. The benefits, however, might simply be due to the added spacing between words.\n\nThere have been many studies conducted regarding intervention in dyslexia. Among these studies one meta-analysis found that there was functional activation as a result.\n\nThere is no evidence demonstrating that the use of music education is effective in improving dyslexic adolescents' reading skills.\n\nDyslexic children require special instruction for word analysis and spelling from an early age. While there are fonts that may help people with dyslexia better understand writing, this might simply be due to the added spacing between words. The prognosis, generally speaking, is positive for individuals who are identified in childhood and receive support from friends and family.\n\nThe percentage of people with dyslexia is unknown, but it has been estimated to be as low as 5% and as high as 17% of the population. While it is diagnosed more often in males, some believe that it affects males and females equally.\n\nThere are different definitions of dyslexia used throughout the world, but despite significant differences in writing systems, dyslexia occurs in different populations. Dyslexia is not limited to difficulty in converting letters to sounds, and Chinese dyslexics may have difficulty converting Chinese characters into their meanings. The Chinese vocabulary uses logographic, monographic, non-alphabet writing where one character can represent an individual phoneme.\n\nThe phonological-processing hypothesis attempts to explain why dyslexia occurs in a wide variety of languages. Furthermore, the relationship between phonological capacity and reading appears to be influenced by orthography.\n\nDyslexia was identified by Oswald Berkhan in 1881, but the term \"dyslexia\" was coined in 1887 by Rudolf Berlin, an ophthalmologist in Stuttgart. He used the term to refer to the case of a young boy who had a severe impairment in learning to read and write, despite showing typical intelligence and physical abilities in all other respects. In 1896, W. Pringle Morgan, a British physician from Seaford, East Sussex, published a description of a reading-specific learning disorder in a report to the \"British Medical Journal\" titled \"Congenital Word Blindness\". The distinction between phonological and surface types of dyslexia is only descriptive, and without any etiological assumption as to the underlying brain mechanisms. However, studies have alluded to potential differences due to variation in performance.\n\nThe majority of currently available dyslexia research relates to alphabetic writing systems, and especially to European languages. However, substantial research is also available regarding dyslexics who speak Arabic, Chinese, Hebrew, or other languages.\n\nAs is the case with any disorder, society often makes an assessment based on incomplete information. Before the 1980s, dyslexia was thought to be a consequence of education, rather than a basic disability. As a result, society often misjudges those with the disorder. There is also sometimes a workplace stigma and negative attitude towards those with dyslexia. If a dyslexic's instructors lack the necessary training to support a child with the condition, there is often a negative effect on the student's learning participation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2370772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2370772", "title": "E. O. James", "text": "E. O. James\n\nEdwin Oliver James (1888 – 1972) was an anthropologist in the field of comparative religion. He was Professor Emeritus of the History and Philosophy of Religion in the University of London, Fellow of University College London and Fellow of King's College London. During his long career he had been Professor of History and Philosophy of Religion at the University of Leeds, Lecturer at the University of Amsterdam and Wilde Lecturer at the University of Oxford.\n\nJames received his education at Exeter College, Oxford and at University College London, where he studied under the noted egyptologist Sir William Matthew Flinders Petrie.\n\nD. W. Gundry Obituary: Professor E. O. James: 1888-1972 \"Numen\", Vol. 19, No. 2/3 (August - December, 1972), pp. 81–83\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18103313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103313", "title": "Education in Togo", "text": "Education in Togo\n\nEducation in Togo is compulsory for six years. In 1996, the gross primary enrollment rate was 119.6 percent, and the net primary enrollment rate was 81.3 percent. Primary school attendance rates were unavailable for Togo as of 2001. (While enrollment rates indicate a level of commitment to education, they do not always reflect children’s participation in school.)\n\nThe education system has had teacher shortages, lower education quality in rural areas, and high repetition and dropout rates. In the north part of the country, 41 percent of the primary school teachers are remunerated by the parents compared with only 17 percent in Lome, where incomes are substantially higher. Despite the increase in number of school kids, education in Togo is insufficient.\n\nThe number of adults that go to school is very low. The mean of adult learning from 2003 to 2013 was estimated to be only 3% of the adult population.\nNevertheless, there are attempts to improve the quality of education in Togo. A plan for free education has been put into action; tuition for primary schools has been forbidden. Many children go to school and it is becoming easier for poor parents to send their children to school, but there is a long way to go.\n"}
{"id": "42158477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42158477", "title": "Environmental Literacy Plan", "text": "Environmental Literacy Plan\n\nAn Environmental Literacy Plan (ELP) refers to a state education plan to teach about how ecosystems and human systems are interdependent, particularly, how the consumption choices human beings make alter their ability to live sustainably. ELP’s serve as a central component of the No Child Left Inside (movement) (NCLI) of 2008 which the House of Representatives passed on September 18, 2008. As outlined by the NCLI of 2008, ELP’s must contain numerous and explicit provisions. The North American Association for Environmental Education (NAAEE) condenses NCLI act into five components which allow states to become eligibile for funds allocated through the NCLI act. \n\nThe purpose of an ELP is to create a comprehensive education plan for environmental literacy that can be evaluated on the basis of student learning outcomes. the NCLI legislation defines goals as follows. Advancing content and achievement standards, Developing or disseminating innovations or model programs, Research, particularly on integrating environmental education in the study of other subjects\nand Capacity-building measures to increase the number of elementary and secondary environmental education teachers.\n\nAn Environmental Literacy Plan (ELP) refers to a state education plan to teach about how ecosystems and human systems are interdependent, particularly, how the consumption choices human beings make alter their ability to live sustainably. ELP’s serve as a central component of the 2008 No Child Left Inside (movement) (NCLI) which the House of Representatives passed.\n\nEnvironmental Literacy Plan’s include environmental literacy content standards in grades Pre-K through 12th grade. Curriculum integration of the environmental literacy standards into the curriculum occur through content integration or as standalone topics of learning. \"Attention should be paid to mandated learning outcomes and curriculum content, standardized tests, and instructional syllabuses\". Clear and supported learning standards are required to ensure high school graduates possess a determined degree of environmental literacy.\n\nOne component of an ELP is the consideration of how environmental literacy will be incorporated into the state’s graduation requirement. Hence high school courses should be aligned with the topic of environmental literacy, programming opportunities for students should be offered or credits for environmental literacy should be a requirement for graduation.\n\nThe ELP provides provisions for both pre-service and in-service teacher preparation. Teacher preparation within the field of environmental literacy will need to support learning using place-based and experiential learning strategies. \"The work of reorienting teachers education for the values of sustainability is crucial to creating a new understanding of ourselves and our place in communities, in the living world and in traditions of relational reciprocity that will sustain us all\".\n\nThe initial ELP should contain a detailed description of how the state education agency will assess and measure the learning achieved through the implementation of the ELP. The assessment of environmental literacy of students will measure the extent to which the ELP was successful.\n\nKey logistical and implementation issues will be addressed within the ELP. One of the most essential components of the ELP is planning for future funding and support. As designated by the NCLI act of 2008 funding tampers off after the initial year of implementation and eventually reduces to 50% of total program expenses. The ELP outlines and anticipates future sources of funding for the state environmental literacy program. The ELP also considers how federal and state education-related legislation and initiatives such as IDEA or STEM funding will be integrated into the overall environmental literacy program.\n\n"}
{"id": "50867351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50867351", "title": "Essar leaks", "text": "Essar leaks\n\nThe Essar leaks include e-mails, office memos, telephone conversations and other records allegedly leaked from the systems of the Indian business conglomerate Essar Group. The leaked records allegedly contain evidence of politician-corporate nexus in India, and show how business interests unfairly manipulate Indian government and judiciary.\n\nIn 2015, an unnamed whistleblower leaked a set of internal e-mails and memos from the Essar Group, alleging that the conglomerate had granted favours to several politicians, bureaucrats and journalists. Essar denied the allegations, terming the alleged favours as \"common courtesies\" that are legally justifiable. Essar also claimed that some of the leaked material was fabricated, and was being used to blackmail them.\n\nIn May 2016, lawyer Suren Uppal reported the existence of a new set of secretly recorded conversations to the Prime Minister. The conversations involve influential politicians, bureaucrats, businesspeople, bankers, and other VIPs. Uppal claimed to have received these tapes from the former Essar employee Albasit Khan, and alleged that the Essar officials illegally tapped these conversations during the 2000s. In June 2016, after the \"Outlook\" magazine made Uppal's claims public, Khan denied Essar's role in tapping the conversations. He acknowledged the existence of the tapes, but stated he had received these tapes from the now-deceased Mumbai Police officer Vijay Salaskar, a claim denied by Mumbai Police. According to Khan, the ultimate source and authenticity of the tapes are unknown. He admitted to having informed Uppal about the tapes, but accused Uppal of fabricating the Essar link to extort money from the business. Uppal denied the allegations, and promised to release the tapes to the Supreme Court of India. Essar completely denied the story, accusing Suren Uppal of being an extortionist.\n\nIn 2015, a whistleblower approached lawyer-activist Prashant Bhushan, and leaked a set of internal e-mails and memos from Essar Group. The material indicated that Essar Group had granted favours to several politicians, bureaucrats and journalists. This led to allegations that Essar had been trying to unfairly influence public policy and opinion. Bhushan's Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) filed a PIL before the Supreme Court of India, requesting an investigation into these allegations. The Essar Group filed an affidavit seeking dismissal of the PIL, calling the favours as legally justifiable \"common courtesies\".\n\nOn 1 June 2016, the Delhi-based lawyer Suren Uppal submitted a 29-page complaint to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging that Essar had tapped VIP conversations during 2000s. According to Uppal, the Essar Group had carried out the surveillance on the Prime Minister's Office (starting with A. B. Vajpayee), the cabinet ministers, government bureaucrats and rival businesspeople.\n\nAccording to Uppal, the tapping was done under the supervision of Albasit Khan (or Basit Khan), a former head of security and vigilance at Essar Group. Uppal claims to be Khan's former legal representative, and has alleged that Khan was forced to resign from Essar in 2011, after being accused of keeping back some of the recorded conversations. He has alleged that \"special mobile SIM cards or the mobile interceptor mobile SIM cards\" were used to tap the conversations. Until 2005, the surveillance was carried out over the BPL Mobile network, which had been under Essar's control. The network was also used by Essar's rival Reliance Industries Limited (RIL), which allowed Essar to tap their conversations. However, RIL moved out of this network after 2005. After that, Essar allegedly used Hutchison network for the tapping.\n\nIn June 2016, the \"Outlook\" magazine published a report on these tapped conversations. Subsequently, Albasit Khan told the media that Essar had not recorded these conversations, and stated that their source and authenticity were unknown. Khan acknowledged the existence of tapes containing the conversations, but stated that the Mumbai Police officer Vijay Salaskar had given these tapes to him for \"safekeeping\" in 2005. Mumbai Police denied this, and \"Outlook\" doubted Khan's claim, pointing out that the tapes include conversations from as late as 2011. Khan admitted that had had met Uppal in January 2016, and had informed him about the tapes. But he denied hiring Uppal as his lawyer. Khan alleged Uppal of fabricating the Essar link to extort money from the business. In response, Uppal claimed that he and Khan had been working to \"expose\" the tapping, but Khan backed out under Essar Group's influence. He promised to hand over the alleged tapes to the Supreme Court as part of a Public Interest Litigation (PIL).\n\nEssar is said to have recorded the conversations of following people:\n\nThe Essar leaks allegedly show that the businesses unfair influencely influenced the Indian government and judiciary during both UPA and NDA tenures. The leaks include the following:\n\n\nIn the 2015 affidavit seeking dismissial of CPIL's request for investigation, the Essar Group stated that they had not derived any benefits from the alleged favours. The affidavit stated that there was no evidence of any criminal offence by Essar Group, and the alleged favours \"common courtesies extended by corporate houses\".\n\nEssar filed a police complaint for data theft, and threatened legal action against media outlets that publish \"any allegations based on any email stolen from the system\":\n\nWhen \"The Caravan\" published a cover story critical of the company, the Essar group filed a 2500 million defamation suit against the magazine.\n\nEssar also questioned the authenticity of the leaked e-mails, calling them \"unverified\" and \"pure hearsay\". It stated that the company had not recruited people based solely on VIP recommendations, calling such recommendations legal and proper in Indian context.\n\nEssar accused CPIL of launching a smear campaign against them to seek publicity.\n\nBJP leader Nitin Gadkari denied extending any favours to the Essar Group, while commenting on his Essar-sponsored yacht stays. He stated that he was not a minister or the BJP President at the time, and paid for his family's Norway vacation using his own money. When Ruias (Essar owners) learned that he was visiting Europe, they invited him to their yacht as a family friend.\n\nSriprakash Jaiswal and Digvijaya Singh defended themselves stating they regularly make referrals to companies, to help unemployed people. Varun Gandhi stated that his office regularly gave letters of recommendations to educated unemployed youth after \"satisfying their bonafide credentials.\"\n\nJournalists Anupama Airy and Sandeep Bamzai resigned after being named among those for whom Essar had arranged cabs. Airy stated that she had requested a cab from Essar \"as help from a friend\", and not as a journalist. She also expressed displeasure at being singled out, stating that other journalists at \"Hindustan Times\" had sought such help from businesses in the past. Bamzai denied publishing any biased news to favour Essar Group, and stated that asking them for a cab was simply \"a stupid mistake\". Meetu Jain had asked Essar for a cab in 2012, when she was working with CNN-IBN. At the time her name was released, she was working as a Deputy News Editor at Times Now, which initiated an internal inquiry against her.\n\nThe Aam Aadmi Party and the Indian National Congress demanded that the alleged tapes be made public.\n\nThe Prime Minister Narendra Modi ordered the Home Ministry to conduct an inquiry, and submit a detailed report.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31814740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31814740", "title": "European Physical Education Review", "text": "European Physical Education Review\n\nEuropean Physical Education Review is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of physical education including sport and leisure issues and research. The journal was established in 1995 and is published by Sage Publications in association with the North West Counties Physical Education Association.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2013 impact factor is 0.438, ranking it 154th out of 219 in the category \"Education & Educational Research\".\n"}
{"id": "50342378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50342378", "title": "Frederick Clifford Dixon", "text": "Frederick Clifford Dixon\n\nFrederick Clifford Dixon (5 December 1902 – 5 May 1992) was notable for his etchings depicting urban life in London in an intricate, realistic and witty manner. His artistic career was cut short with the decline in the print market after the boom years of the 1920s. He then embarked on a career as an art teacher in order to make a living.\n\nFrederick Clifford Dixon (also known as Charles) was born in Derby in 1902. His initial art training took place at Derby School of Art and Crafts (1920–1924) before attending the School of Engraving at the Royal College of Art (RCA) in London (1924–1928) with the assistance of a small scholarship from Derby Education Authority. He gained a Diploma in Etching in 1927 and a Teacher's Certificate in 1928 (SoA Archives).\n\nBy the time Dixon graduated from the RCA the decline in the etching market had begun, a decline compounded by the negative economic consequences of the Wall Street Crash in America in October 1929.\n\nIn the years that followed many artists ceased etching and took up other professions. Dixon used his teaching qualification, awarded in his last year at the RCA, to become an art teacher. He taught in schools in the next four decades in Morecambe Bay, Ashton-under-Lyne, Altrincham and finally Cheshire Council Training College in Alsager until 1963. He had not been able to serve in the 2nd World War, he was ruled medically unfit because he had had tuberculosis in childhood. After retiring from teaching in 1963 Dixon moved to Goring-on-Thames. In retirement he had a small sailing boat on the Thames and was an active member of the local history society until his death in 1992.\n\nIn 1933 he married Chris Glover and they had one son, John, born in 1937.\n\nAt the time Dixon was attending the RCA, William Rothenstein was principal, Malcolm Osborne RA was the Professor of Engraving and Job Nixon was Osborne's assistant lecturer and a winner of the Prix de Rome Scholarship in Engraving (1920).\n\nDixon studied alongside some of the major figures in British early twentieth century printmaking, such as Edward Bawden, Eric Ravillious, Charles Tunnicliffe, a friend of Dixon, Marion Adnams, Evelyn Gibbs, Kenneth Holmes and Grace Golden. He graduated with fellow students Frederick Austin, Stanley Badmin, Enid Butcher, Ceri G. Richards and James Cresser Tarr.\n\nDixon was encouraged by Rothenstein to become a professional artist but he decided that it was not the career for him; partly because the print market was already in decline having taken a 'fatal knock in the Great Crash of 1929' and partly because he felt that he produced work too slowly to make a decent living.\n\nDuring his short artistic career Dixon used his 'keen sense of observation' to produce intricate etchings that capture wonderfully a sense of the period. Contemporary critics noted his ability to depict 'human characteristics of different types', 'treated in a realistic and humorous manner'.\n\nWhilst a student at the RCA Dixon exhibited his etching \"The British Museum Portico, Night\" at the Royal Academy Exhibition in 1926. This print, along with five others, is now in the collection of The British Museum, Department of Prints and Drawings. This etching was chosen by Sir Muirhead Bone, along with other the work of other notable printmakers of the day, including Stanley Anderson, C R W Nevinson, Job Nixon and William Strange RA, for display on the walls of the banking hall of Williams Deacon's Bank Limited, West End Office 9, Pall Mall, S.W.1. The Museum of London also holds a number of Dixon's prints.\n\nDixons work was shown extensively during 1927 in a number of exhibitions including The British School of Rome Imperial Gallery of Art, the New English Art Gallery where his etching \"Putney Hill: Sunday Morning\" was described as ‘bright and lively’, and The Royal College of Art Sketch Club Exhibition noted the work as 'strongly satirical' with a 'feeling for the social \"aura\" of a place'. He also exhibited in art galleries in Derby and Nottingham.\n\nThe Sphere described his work at the New English Art Club as \"Transcending the almost maniacal distortion of the pioneers of the modern movement\".\n\nA recent exhibition at the Aberystwyth University School of Art Gallery (30 November 2015 – 15 January 2016) featured not only thirteen of Dixon's own etchings of British urban and rural life but also twenty-three prints by his contemporaries which he acquired by exchange or gift. As a result of this exhibition a number of Dixon's works were given to the collection by the family. The collection in Aberystwyth now has the most comprehensive holdings of Dixon's work. Included in the acquisition were a number of his etchings and preparatory drawings for \"Regents Street\" (1927) and \"Putney Hill\" (1926) and a pencil portrait of Ceri Giraldus Richards made in the mid 1920s.\n\nhttp://www.fcdixonetchings.co.uk/\n"}
{"id": "4238818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4238818", "title": "Hallstatt Lecture", "text": "Hallstatt Lecture\n\nThe Hallstatt Lecture is an hour-long lecture in any European language on some aspect of ancient and modern Celtic culture. It is given at The Tabernacle, Machynlleth in Wales at lunchtime on the Wednesday of each Machynlleth Festival.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2169169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2169169", "title": "Heiko Oberman", "text": "Heiko Oberman\n\nHeiko Augustinus Oberman (15 October 1930 – 22 April 2001) was a Dutch historian and theologian who specialized in the study of the Reformation.\n\nOberman was born in Utrecht. He earned his doctorate in theology from the University of Utrecht in 1957 and joined the faculty of the Harvard Divinity School in 1958. There he rose rapidly from instructor to associate professor and, in 1963, to professor of church history. He was appointed Winn Professor of Ecclesiastical History at Harvard in 1964 and continued teaching there until 1966. He then accepted a chair in the theology faculty at the University of Tübingen, Germany, where he also became director of the Institute for Late Middle Ages and Reformation Research. Later in life, Oberman founded the Division for Late Medieval and Reformation Studies at the University of Arizona. His major books include \"The Harvest of Medieval Theology: Gabriel Biel and Late Medieval Nominalism\" (1963), which articulated his program of bridging the gap between the later Middle Ages and Reformation era (at least in the field of theology), and an iconoclastic biography of Luther, translated from German as \"Luther: Man between God and the Devil\" (1989).\n\nNumerous honorary degrees and affiliations in the United States and abroad pay homage to Oberman’s stature as a scholar and an educator. He became member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1963. In 1996, the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences awarded him the prestigious Dr A.H. Heineken Prize for History — the highest honor a historian can receive — and, in 2001, shortly before his death, he was told that he would be awarded a knighthood by Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands in 2002 for extraordinary representation of Dutch scholarship and culture. At the University of Arizona, he was named Regents’ Professor of History in 1988 and was honored with the 5-Star Faculty Teaching Award in 1989, the College of Social and Behavioral Sciences Teaching Award for Graduate Instruction in 1999, and the SBS Board of Advisors Lifetime Achievement Award in 2001.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38130810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38130810", "title": "Homeschooling in South Africa", "text": "Homeschooling in South Africa\n\nHome schooling in South Africa (often referred to as home education) had been illegal, until it was recognized in 1996 under the South African School Legislation, since when it has since grown significantly.\n\nNotable moments in the history of home schooling are provided below. Most of the content comes directly from primary sources and has not been documented anywhere yet:\n\nDr Andrew Murray was the only minister in the Nederduitsch Gereformeerde (NG) church in the Free State and Transvaal, and he was based in Bloemfontein. He was tasked to travel through both republics baptizing people, giving catechism and performing marriage ceremonies. Dr. Murray was surprised that he very seldom found young people that were illiterate, in reading, writing and arithmetic and this despite the fact that there were no schools in the area traveled. Nomad farmers bordering the north east of the Cape Colony in the eighteen hundreds had no schools, teachers or religious ministers, and yet literacy was a universal occurrence.\n\nGovernment schools increased in implementation and the freedom of home schooling was increasingly limited. By the 1990s only a few families were allowed to homeschool under severe restrictions, if they could have their children exempted from compulsory school attendance. That was only granted up to Grade 3, if the family lived more than 80 km from the nearest school and if the child(ren) were taught by a teacher qualified to teach the junior primary phase.\n\nThe Association for Homeschooling is established. \n\nOn 14 December 1993 Andre and Bokkie Meintjies were sentenced to prison because their children did not attend formal school. In a court case that lasted for almost five years, Andre was sentenced to two years and Bokkie one year in separate jails in Johannesburg, and this while their three children were placed in an orphanage in the Eastern Cape to prevent contact between the parents and children. Several other parents were given suspended sentences on condition they put their children in schools. All of those parents still have criminal records.\n\nA group action was launched by the Association for Homeschooling and the Home School Legal Defense Association (HSLDA) from the USA that led to release of both Bokkie and Andre. The Meintjies couple were however released six months later under a blanket amnesty for prisoners with the implementation of the new constitution.\n\nConcept legislation was published to the effect that home schooling was to be illegal in South Africa. This led to a campaign being launched by home school leaders like Leendert van Oostrum, Graham Shortridge and Kate Durham with the HSLDA. Thousands of home schoolers in the USA wrote letters to the South African embassy in the USA in support of this campaign. In that time, SA was still expecting to receive large grants from America, and American public opinion was taken seriously.\n\nIn November of this year the SA Schools Act was promulgated wherein home schooling was recognized. In December of the same year, the new constitution of South Africa was accepted, in which the legal status of home schooling was entrenched more securely. The act requires that every home learner be registered with the relevant provincial education department – unless there is good reason not to.\n\nThe Pestalozzi Trust is established in accordance with a brief from the general meeting of the Association for Homeschooling to serve as a legal fund to ensure the continued freedom and to promote such freedom.\n\nMr. Kader Asmal publishes the national policy concerning the registration of home schoolers, wherein the input from both the home schooling contingent and the provincial education departments is totally ignored. The Pestalozzi Trust advises home schoolers that the policy is in direct conflict with the SA Schools Act, and therefore not enforceable.\n\n\nThe Pestalozzi Trust organizes a campaign against the acceptance of the Revised National Curriculum, which would be compulsory for government- private schools as well as home schooling. In this curriculum children would be compelled to approve inter faith religion. At the end of the campaign a protest is held in Cape Town and on Church Square in Pretoria. Leendert van Oostrum of the Pestalozzi Trust was requested to do a presentation to the parliamentary portfolio committee on education.\n\nThe Gauteng department of education arranges a series of meetings to try and intimidate parents to register and to demand compliance to a range of irregular demands. Representatives of the Pestalozzi Trust and the Association for Homeschooling attended all the meetings. The officials only wanted to discuss the registration process, and interactive discussion with homeschooling parents was strongly discouraged.\n\nIn 2005 the Department of Basic Education (DBE) advertised for tenders for research on home education in South Africa. The budget was small and the terms of reference very restrictive. A tender by Wits Education Policy Unit was accepted, and they submitted their report in 2008. Given the restrictions on the researchers, the report was successful in describing the homeschooling community as it then was, and its recommendations were mostly reasonable.\n\nIn opposition of the prosecution of home schoolers in Germany, the Association for Homeschooling holds a protest at the Deutsche Schule in Pretoria to bring this to the attention of the German community.\n\nNew regulations on the administration of matric were promulgated. These regulations require that learners must complete Gr. 10 and Gr. 11 in order to be admitted to write the Gr. 12 exam. Whereas it was possible for homelearners to obtain a matric in less than a year at a cost of about R1000, it will now take 3 years at a cost of about R30 000. Due to this increase in duration and cost of the National Senior Certificate, international matric qualifications such as Cambridge (UK) and General Educational Development (USA) became increasingly popular under homeschoolers.\n\nThe Association for Homeschooling launches an initiative for an independent website on home education. The website \"SAHomeschoolers.Org\" has since grown to the most comprehensive independent website concerning home schooling in South Africa. Home Schooling Expos become more commonplace. Since this year there are annual expos in Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and George.\n\n\n\nAccording to the results of the 2012 census, there are approximately 57000 home schooling students in South Africa. If all these learners were to be accommodated in schools, 130 schools would be required as well as 2000 teachers. Currently the government is saving approximately R700 million per year because the government is not paying for the education of these children.\n\n\nAt the start of the year Pestalozzi Trust publishes an article \"Homeschooling running into heavy weather\".\n\n\nAfter the meetings in October, it was the intention to have follow-up meetings in January 2015. As the date of the follow-up meeting approached, the meeting was postponed to February 2015, in order to provide more time to the DBE to prepare for the meeting. Two weeks before this meeting, representatives requested that the agenda and working documents be sent to them as a matter of common courtesy. Soon after this representatives were informed that the meeting was postponed indefinitely.\n\nMiddle June, representatives received another invite for a meeting on the 2nd and 3 July, with a proposed agenda and an updated Discussion Document by dr. Trevor Coombe. The representatives were surprised by the updated discussion document. This document confirmed that the DBE was indeed willing to attempt to understand home education, because a number of significant paradigms shifts have been made since the previous Discussion Document that was presented in October 2014. In the preparation for the meeting, the agenda was changed a few times. The Association for Homeschooling managed to reserve more than 90 minutes of the agenda for a screening of the “Class Dismissed” movie.\n\n\n\nTo ensure that statements on the negative consequences of the proposed bill can be proven empirically, homeschooling parents were requested to complete a survey. A total of 2750 parents completed the survey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6242579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6242579", "title": "Hot Potatoes", "text": "Hot Potatoes\n\nThe Hot Potatoes software suite includes five applications that can create exercises for the World Wide Web. The applications are JCloze, JCross, JMatch, JMix and JQuiz. There is also a sixth application called The Masher, that will compile all the Hot Potatoes exercises into one unit.\n\nHot Potatoes was created by the Research and Development team at the University of Victoria Humanities Computing and Media Centre. Commercial aspects of the software are handled by Half-Baked Software Inc. Hot Potatoes has been freeware since October 2009.\n\nHot Potatoes was first released in version 2.0 in September 1998, at the EuroCALL conference in Leuven, Belgium.\n\nStewart Arneil and Martin Holmes (1998). \"Hot Potatoes: Free Tools for Creating Interactive Language Exercises for the World Wide Web\". Presentation, EuroCALL 1998 conference, Leuven. September 1998.\n\nStewart Arneil and Martin Holmes (1999). \"Juggling hot potatoes: Decisions and compromises in creating authoring tools for the Web\". \"ReCALL Journal\", Vol. 11 No. 2 (Web edition) and \"College and University Media Review\", Vol. 6 No. 1. CUP; CCUMC. http://www.eurocall-languages.org/recall/pdf/rvol11no2.pdf. September 1999.\n\nStewart Arneil and Martin Holmes (2001). \"Hot Potatoes, History and Future\". Presentation, EuroCALL 2001 Conference, Nijmegen. http://web.uvic.ca/hrd/eurocall2001/HotPotPastFuture/PastFutureHome.htm. August 2001.\n\nStewart Arneil and Martin Holmes (2003). \"Unicode and Software Development: Hot Potatoes Goes Multilingual\". Presentation, WorldCALL 2003 Conference, Banff, Canada, May 2003; also IALLT 2003 Conference June 2003. http://web.uvic.ca/hrd/iallt2003/unicode/presentation.xml. May 2003.\n\nStewart Arneil and Martin Holmes (2004). \"Hacking in Hot Potatoes: A little knowledge brings a lot of power\". In \"TEL & CAL\". CALL-Austria Assn. . January 2004.\n\nStewart Arneil and Martin Holmes (2008). \"Hot Potatoes: Taking an academic software project into the commercial domain\". In \"Aprendizaje de Lenguas Asistido por Ordenador: Herramientas de Autor para el Desarrollo de Cursos a Través de la Web,\" ed. Ana Gimeno Sanz, pp. 5–33. Editorial Universidad Politécnica de Valencia. http://www.upv.es/pls/obib/est_publ.FichPublica?P_ESTILO=200&P_IDIOMA=i&P_ARM=2154. https://books.google.com/books?id=kYF1QwAACAAJ&dq=Aprendizaje+de+Lenguas+Asistido+por+Ordenador:+Herramientas+de+Autor+para+el+Desarrollo+de+Cursos+a+Trav%C3%A9s+de+la+Web&hl=en&ei=JhrpTtw0yJSIAsfP7KcM&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDcQ6AEwAA. 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "46187810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46187810", "title": "Indentured servitude in the Americas", "text": "Indentured servitude in the Americas\n\nIndentured servitude in the Americas was a means by which immigrants, typically young Europeans under 25, came to the Americas from the early 17th to the early 20th centuries. Immigrants would contract to work for an American employer for a time period, usually between one and seven years, in exchange for the employer paying for their passage to the Americas. The employer provided subsistence for his indentured servants, but no wages; he could restrict some of their activities such as marriage, could sell or transfer their contract to another employer, and could seek legal sanctions, such as prison, if they ran away. At the end of the agreed time period, the servant would become free to go his own way or demand wages for his work. In some cases, the newly freed person also received an item of value such as a small parcel of land or a new suit of clothes.\n\nThe consensus view among economic historians and economists is that indentured servitude became popular in the Thirteen Colonies in the seventeenth century because of a large demand for labor there, coupled with labor surpluses in Europe and high costs of transatlantic transportation beyond the means of European workers. Between the 1630s and the American Revolution, one-half to two-thirds of white immigrants to the Thirteen Colonies arrived under indentures. Half a million Europeans, mostly young men, also went to the Caribbean under indenture to work on plantations. Most indentures were voluntary, although some people were tricked or coerced into them. A debt peonage system similar to indenture was also used in southern New England and Long Island to control and assimilate Native Americans from the 1600s through the American Revolution.\n\nIndentured servitude continued to be used in North America into the early 20th century, but the number of indentured servants declined over time. Although experts do not agree on the causes of the decline, some possible factors for the American colonies include changes in the labor market and the legal system that made it cheaper and less risky for an employer to hire African slave labor or paid employees, or made indentures unlawful; increased affordability of travel to North America that made immigrants less likely to rely on indentures to pay travel costs; and effects of the American Revolution, particularly on immigration from Britain. In the Caribbean, the number of indentured servants from Europe began to decline in the 17th century as Europeans became aware of the cruelty of plantation masters and the high death rate of servants, largely due to tropical disease. After the British Empire ended slavery in 1833, plantation owners returned to indentured servitude for labor, with most servants coming from India, until the British government prohibited the practice in 1917.\n\nBetween one-half and two-thirds of European immigrants to the Thirteen Colonies between the 1630s and the American Revolution came under indentures. The practice was sufficiently common that the Habeas Corpus Act 1679, in part, prevented imprisonments overseas; it also made provisions for those with existing transportation contracts and those \"praying to be transported\" in lieu of remaining in prison upon conviction. In any case, while half the European immigrants to the Thirteen Colonies had been indentured servants, at any one time they were outnumbered by workers who had never been indentured, or whose indenture had expired. Free wage labour was more common for Europeans in the colonies. Indentured persons were numerically important mostly in the region from Virginia north to New Jersey. Other colonies saw far fewer of them. The total number of European immigrants to all 13 colonies before 1775 was about 500,000-550,000; of these 55,000 were involuntary prisoners. Of the 450,000 or so European arrivals who came voluntarily, Tomlins estimates that 48% were indentured. About 75% were under the age of 25. The age of legal adulthood for men was 24 years; those over 24 generally came on contracts lasting about 3 years. Regarding the children who came, Gary Nash reports that, \"many of the servants were actually nephews, nieces, cousins and children of friends of emigrating Englishmen, who paid their passage in return for their labour once in America.\"\n\nFarmers, merchants, and shopkeepers in the British colonies found it very difficult to hire free workers, primarily because it was easy for potential workers to set up their own farms. Consequently, a common solution was to transport a young worker from Britain or a German state, who would work for several years to pay off the debt of their travel costs. During the indenture period the servants were not paid cash wages, but were provided with food, accommodation, clothing and training. The indenture document specified how many years the servant would be required to work, after which they would be free. Terms of indenture ranged from one to seven years with typical terms of four or five years. In southern New England, a variant form of indentured servitude, which controlled the labour of Native Americans through an exploitative debt-peonage system, developed in the late 17th century and continued through to the period of the American Revolution.\n\nNot all European servants came willingly. Several instances of kidnapping for transportation to the Americas are recorded, though these were often indentured in the same way as their willing counterparts. An illustrative example is that of Peter Williamson (1730–1799). As historian Richard Hofstadter pointed out, \"Although efforts were made to regulate or check their activities, and they diminished in importance in the eighteenth century, it remains true that a certain small part of the white colonial population of America was brought by force, and a much larger portion came in response to deceit and misrepresentation on the part of the spirits [recruiting agents].\"\n\nMany white immigrants arrived in colonial America as indentured servants, usually as young men and women from Britain or Germany, under the age of 21. Typically, the father of a teenager would sign the legal papers, and work out an arrangement with a ship captain, who would not charge the father any money. The captain would transport the indentured servants to the American colonies, and sell their legal papers to someone who needed workers. At the end of the indenture, the young person was given a new suit of clothes and was free to leave. Many immediately set out to begin their own farms, while others used their newly acquired skills to pursue a trade. A few became sufficiently prosperous that they were eventually able to acquire indentured servants of their own.\n\nGiven the high death rate, many servants did not live to the end of their terms. In the 18th and early 19th century, numerous Europeans, mostly from outside the British Isles, traveled to the colonies as redemptioners, a particularly harsh form of indenture.\n\nIndentured servants were a separate category from bound apprentices. The latter were American-born children, usually orphans or from an impoverished family who could not care for them. They were under the control of courts and were bound out to work as an apprentice until a certain age. Two famous bound apprentices were Benjamin Franklin who illegally fled his apprenticeship to his brother, and Andrew Johnson, who later became President of the United States.\n\nGeorge Washington used indentured servants; in April 1775, he offered a reward for the return of two runaway white servants.\n\nIndentured servitude in the Americas was first used by the Virginia Company in the early seventeenth century as a method for collateralising the debt finance for transporting people to its newfound British colonies.\n\nBefore the rise of indentured servitude, a large demand for labour existed in the colonies to help build settlements, farm crops and serve as tradesmen, but many labourers in Europe could not afford the transatlantic crossing, which could cost roughly half a worker’s annual wage.\n\nEuropean financial institutions could not easily lend to the workers since there was no effective way to enforce a loan from across the Atlantic, rendering labour immobile via the Atlantic because of capital market imperfections.\nTo address this imperfection, the Virginia Company would allow labourers to borrow against their future earnings at the Virginia Company for a fixed number of years in order to raise sufficient capital to pay for their voyage. Evidence shows this practice was in use by 1609, only two years after the founding of the Virginia Company's original Jamestown settlement. However, this practice created a financial risk for the Virginia Company. If workers died or refused to work, the investment would be lost.\n\nBy 1620, the Virginia Company switched to selling contracts of \"one hundred servants to be disposed amongst the old Planters\" as soon as the servants reached the colonies. This minimised risk on its investment to the 2–3 months of transatlantic voyage. As the system gained in popularity, individual farmers and tradesmen would eventually begin investing in indentured servants as well.\n\nThe archaeological excavation of a 17th century Maryland residence in Anne Arundel County discovered a likely indentured servant buried and hidden beneath the floor alongside a garbage pit. In 1661 Virginia law prohibited the inappropriate burial of indentured servants.\n\nIn the 18th century, wages in Great Britain were low because of a surplus of labour. The average monetary wage was about 50 shillings (£2.50, ) a year for a plowman, and 40 shillings (£2) a year for an ordinary unskilled worker. Ships' captains negotiated prices for transporting and feeding a passenger on the seven- or eight-week journey across the ocean, averaging about £5 to £7, the equivalent of years of work back in England.\n\nStill, demand for indentured labour remained relatively low until the adoption of staple crops, such as sugarcane in the West Indies or tobacco in the American South. With economies largely based on these crops, the West Indies and American South would see the vast majority of indentured labour.\nAuthor and historian Richard Hofstadter has written:\n\nThe most unenviable situation was that of servants on Southern plantations, living alongside but never with Negro slaves, both groups doing much the same work, often under the supervision of a relentless overseer… Even as late as 1770, William Eddis, the English surveyor of customs at Annapolis, thought that the Maryland Negroes were better off than \"the Europeans, over whom the rigid planter exercises an inflexible severity.\" The Negroes, Eddis thought, were a lifelong property so were treated with a certain care, but the whites were \"strained to the utmost to perform their allotted labour.\"\n\nOver time the market for indentured servitude developed, with length of contracts showing close correlations to indicators of health and productivity. Tall, strong, healthy, literate or skilled servants would often serve shorter terms than less productive or more sickly servants. Similarly, destinations with harsh working climates such as the West Indies would come to offer shorter contracts compared to the more hospitable colonies.\n\nThe majority of indentured servants ended up in the American South, where cash crops necessitated labour-intensive farming. As the Northern colonies moved toward industrialisation, they got significantly less indentured immigration. For example, 96.28% of English emigrants to Virginia and Maryland from 1773 to 1776 were indentured servants. During the same time period, only 1.85% of English emigrants to New England were indentured.\n\nAn indenture was a legal contract enforced by the courts. One indenture reads as follows:\n\nThis INDENTURE Witnesseth that James Best a Labourer doth Voluntarily put himself Servant to Captain\nStephen Jones Master of the Snow Sally to serve the said Stephen Jones and his Assigns, for and during the full Space, Time and Term of three Years from the first Day of the said James’ arrival in Philadelphia in AMERICA, during which Time or Term the said Master or his Assigns shall and will find and supply the said James with sufficient Meat, Drink, Apparel, Lodging and all other necessaries befitting such a Servant, and at the end and expiration of said Term, the said James to be made Free, and receive according to the Custom of the Country. Provided nevertheless, and these Presents are on this Condition, that if the said James shall pay the said Stephen Jones or his Assigns 15 Pounds British in twenty one Days after his arrival he shall be Free, and the above Indenture and every Clause therein, absolutely Void and of no Effect. In Witness whereof the said Parties have hereunto interchangeably put their Hands and Seals the 6th Day of July in the Year of our Lord, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Seventy Three in the Presence of the Right Worshipful Mayor of the City of London. (signatures)\nWhen the ship arrived, the captain would often advertise in a newspaper that indentured servants were for sale:\n\nJust imported, on board the Snow Sally, Captain Stephen Jones, Master, from England, A number of healthy, stout English and Welsh Servants and Redemptioners, and a few Palatines [Germans], amongst whom are the following tradesmen, viz. Blacksmiths, watch-makers, coppersmiths, taylors, shoemakers, ship-carpenters and caulkers, weavers, cabinet-makers, ship-joiners, nailers, engravers, copperplate printers, plasterers, bricklayers, sawyers and painters. Also schoolmasters, clerks and book-keepers, farmers and labourers, and some lively smart boys, fit for various other employments, whose times are to be disposed of. Enquire of the Captain on board the vessel, off Walnut-street wharff, or of MEASE and CALDWELL.\n\nWhen a buyer was found, the sale would be recorded at the city court. The \"Philadelphia Mayor’s Court Indenture Book\", page 742, for September 18, 1773 has the following entry:\n\nJames Best,\nwho was under Indenture of Redemption to Captain\nStephen Jones now cancelled in consideration of £ 15,\npaid for his Passage from London bound a servant\nto David Rittenhouse of the City of Philadelphia\n& assigns three years to be found all necessaries.\n\nIndentures could not marry without the permission of their owner, were subject to physical punishment (like many young ordinary servants), and saw their obligation to labour enforced by the courts. To ensure uninterrupted work by the female servants, the law lengthened the term of their indenture if they became pregnant. But unlike slaves, servants were guaranteed to be eventually released from bondage. At the end of their term they received a payment known as \"freedom dues\" and become free members of society. One could buy and sell indentured servants' contracts, and the right to their labour would change hands, but not the person as a piece of property.\n\nBoth male and female labourers could be subject to violence, occasionally even resulting in death. Richard Hofstadter notes that, as slaves arrived in greater numbers after 1700, white labourers in Virginia became a \"privileged stratum, assigned to lighter work and more skilled tasks\". He also notes that \"Runaways were regularly advertised in the newspapers, rewards were offered, and both sheriffs and the general public were enlisted to secure their return. ... The standard penalty in the North, not always rigorously enforced, was extra service of twice the time the master had lost, though whipping was also common.\"\n\nIndentured servitude was a method of increasing the number of colonists, especially in the English and later British colonies. Voluntary migration and convict labour only provided so many people, and since the journey across the Atlantic was dangerous, other means of encouraging settlement were necessary. Contract-labourers became an important group of people and so numerous that the United States Constitution counted them specifically in appointing representatives:\nDisplaced from their land and unable to find work in the cities, many of these people signed contracts of indenture and took passage to the Americas. In Massachusetts, religious instruction in the Puritan way of life was often part of the condition of indenture, and people tended to live in towns.\n\nThe labour-intensive cash crop of tobacco was farmed in the American South by indentured labourers in the 17th and 18th centuries. Indentured servitude was not the same as the apprenticeship system by which skilled trades were taught, but similarities do exist between the two, since both require a set period of work. The majority of Virginians were Anglican, not Puritan, and while religion did play a large role in everyday lives, the culture was more commercially based. In the Chesapeake and North Carolina, tobacco constituted a major percentage of the total agricultural output. (In the Deep South (mainly Georgia and South Carolina), cotton and rice plantations dominated.) In the lower Atlantic colonies where tobacco was the main cash crop, the majority of labour that indentured servants performed was related to field work. In this situation, social isolation could increase the possibilities for both direct and indirect abuse, as could lengthy, demanding labour in the tobacco fields.\n\nThe system was still widely practiced in the 1780s, picking up immediately after a hiatus during the American Revolution. Fernand Braudel (\"The Perspective of the World\" 1984, pp 405f) instances a 1783 report on \"the import trade from Ireland\" and its large profits to a ship owner or a captain, who:\nIn modern terms, the shipowner was acting as a contractor, hiring out his labourers. Such circumstances affected the treatment a captain gave his valuable human cargo. After indentures were forbidden, the passage had to be prepaid, giving rise to the inhumane conditions of Irish 'coffin ships' in the second half of the 19th century.\n\nStarting in the late 17th century, in southern New England and parts of Long Island, Native Americans were increasingly pulled into an exploitative debt-peonage system designed to control and assimilate Native American people into the dominant culture as well as channel their labour into the market-based Atlantic economy. Following King Philip's War (1675–1676) most Native Americans in the region were resigned to reservations or lived in increasingly marginal enclaves on the edges of colonial towns. Due to restricted access to resources, land loss, and changes to the environment caused by European settlement, many Native Americans, especially coastal groups, could no longer practice traditional subsistence activities and therefore became increasingly dependent on European trade goods—cloth, tools, guns, alcohol, and increasingly, food. Merchants trading these items to Native Americans often inflated the cost and, based on a predatory lending scheme, advanced them credit for these purchases, knowing full well most Native Americans would not be able to repay the debts. Eventually when debts mounted, Native Americans were hauled into court by their creditors. When they could not pay either their lands, or more commonly their labour, was seized to settle the debt. Native American debtors were then indentured to their creditors for terms ranging from a few months to sometimes years. Rare cases exist when Native Americans were indentured for a decade or more and a few were enslaved for life (this was quite rare however). Many Native Americans experienced repeated indentures over the course of their lifetimes, amounting to a phenomenon of 'serial indenture' or debt peonage—multiple short indentures alternating with brief periods of 'freedom.' The 'time' Native American servants owed could be sold or willed to heirs if a creditor died.\n\nAssessing how many Native Americans experienced indenture is difficult as exact Native American populations during the colonial period are unknown. However, Historian John Sainsbury was able to document that by the mid-18th century about a third of all Native Americans in Rhode Island were indentured servants living and working in white households. Also, the Massachusetts state archives contains numerous petitions, written from the 1730s to 1760s from Native American tribes in their jurisdiction complaining about abuses in the indenture system and predatory lending by whites. Statutes were eventually passed attempting to regulate practices. Colonial military records do provide some data on Native American indenture as well. Enlistment records from 1704 to 1726 show that almost two-thirds of Native Americans who joined the army were indentured at the time of their enlistment. Records from 1748 to 1760 show a decline in this rate, but still show almost a third of Native American recruits being bound to white masters at the time of their enlistment. One Connecticut regiment raised in 1746 during King George's War (containing 980 men total) contained 139 Native American men. Almost half of them had signed their wages over to white creditors before being deployed.\n\nWhile many Native American men, women and children became servants in New England households, the labour of many adult men was funneled into the whaling industry on Long Island, Rhode Island, Cape Cod and the islands of Martha's Vineyard and Nantucket, as well as the coast of eastern Connecticut. These whaling indentures were somewhat distinct from normal indenture contracts, and stipulated that Native Americans serve not as servants in white households but instead as crew members on a certain number of whaling voyages or 'seasons' of whaling (typically November through April). Throughout most of the colonial period indentured or heavily indebted Native American whalers were the primary labour force in the early whaling industry. They remained an important source of labour into the Revolutionary and early national era, but as their numbers dwindled and the industry expanded exponentially, they made up a decreasingly small proportion of the labour force.\n\nIndentured servitude appeared in the Americas in the 1620s and remained in use as late as 1917. The causes behind its decline are a contentious domain in economic history.\n\nThe end of debtors' prisons may have created a limited commitment pitfall in which indentured servants could agree to contracts with ship captains and then refuse to sell themselves once they arrived in the colonies. Increased lobbying from immigrant aid societies led to increased regulation of the indentured labour market, further increasing the difficulty of enforcing contracts. With less ability to enforce the contracts, demand for indentured servants may have fallen. However, most debtor prisons were still in service when indentured servitude disappeared and many regulations on indentured servitude were put in place well before the disappearance.\n\nA rise in European per-capita income compared to passage fare during the nineteenth century may also explain the disappearance of indentured servitude. While passage from England to the colonies in 1668 would cost roughly 51 percent of English per-capita income, that ratio would decrease to between 20 and 30 percent by 1841. This increase in relative income may have been further supplemented by a demonstrated increase in savings among European labourers, meaning European emigrants would have the capital on hand to pay for their own passage. With no need for transit capital, fewer labourers would have become indentured, and the supply of indentured servants would have decreased.\n\nLabour substitutions may have led employers away from indentured servants and towards slaves or paid employees. In many places, African slaves became cheaper for unskilled and then eventually skilled labour, and most farmhand positions previously filled by indentured servants were ultimately filled by slaves. Wage labourers may have been more productive, since employers were more willing to terminate waged employment. In comparison, firing an indentured servant would mean a loss on the original capital investment spent purchasing the servant’s contract. Either substitution would lead to a decrease in demand for indentured servitude. An additional problem for employers was that, compared to African slaves, European indentured servants who ran away could not always be easily distinguished from the general white population, so they were more difficult to re-capture.\n\nIndentured servitude's decline for white servants was also largely a result of changing attitudes that accrued over the 18th century and culminated in the early 19th century. Over the 18th century, the penal sanctions that were used against all workers were slowly going away from colonial codes, leaving indentured servants the only adult white labour subject to penal sanctions (with the notable exception of seaman, whose contracts could be criminally enforced up to the 20th century). These penal sanctions for indentured labourers continued in the United States until the 1830s, and by this point treatment of European labourers under contract became the same as the treatment of wage labourers (however, this change in treatment didn't apply to workers of color). This change in treatment can be attributed to a number of factors, such as the growing identification of white indented labour with slavery at a time when slavery was coming under attack in the Northern states, the growing radicalism of workers influenced with the rhetoric of the American Revolution, and the expansion of suffrage in many states which empowered workers politically. Penal sanctions, previously considered perfectly in line with free labour, became in the 19th century a way to transform ordinary labour into \"contracts of slavery.\"\n\nGiven the rapid expansion of colonial export industries in the 17th and 18th Century, natural population growth and immigration were unable to meet the increasing demand for workers. As a result, the cost of indentured servants rose substantially. In the Chesapeake Bay, for example, the cost of indentures rose as much as 60% in the 1680s. The increase in the price of indentures did not however act as an incentive for European workers to emigrate for they were not affected by the price at which they were sold in American ports. As a result, the companies that generated indentures disrupted the price signaling effect and thus the supply of immigrants did not expand sufficiently to meet demand. Some actors in the market attempted to generate incentives for workers by shortening the length of indenture contracts based on the productivity of the prospective emigrant. Some American firms also opted to incentivize workers by paying small wages or by negotiating early expiration of indentures. \nThe rising cost of indentured labour and its inelastic supply pushed American producers towards other forms of labour. Slaves were substantially cheaper and the supply of them was more abundant for it was not constrained by the slaves’ willingness to emigrate. Additionally, slave traders were directly incentivised by the price mechanism to expand \"production\" (in the form of raiding expeditions), so supply was relatively elastic. Slavery thus was better able to satisfy labour demands in colonies requiring large quantities of unskilled workers (for example plantation colonies in the Caribbean). Indentures however prevailed in colonies that required skilled workers (in which the cost of training a slave was higher than the price differential between a slave and an indentured servant). Alison Smith and Abbott E Smith’s analysis of London port records shows how destination of indentured emigrants shifted from the West Indies towards New England as early as the 1660s, supporting the theory that indentured servitude might have declined in some regions because of labour market dynamics.\n\nThe rise in the affordability of immigration reduced emigrants’ need for external financing in the form of indentures. David Galenson’s analysis on affordability shows that the cost of immigration from Britain to the United States over the course of the 18th Century dropped from 50% of per capita income to less than 10%. This is attributable to higher levels of real income in Europe (a result of economic growth in the 18th Century) and to a sharp decline in transportation costs. \nInnovation had a strong impact on the ease and cost of passenger transportation, reducing the need of indentures. The railroad made non-port cities a much cheaper destination for immigrants. The steamboat was not necessarily cheaper than older sailing technologies, but it made transatlantic travel much easier and comfortable, an attractive factor for high-income classes (that could easily afford immigration without indentures). \nThe British Navy’s efforts against piracy also reduced transportation costs. Safer seas implied smaller crews (for there was no need to man weapons on board) and also reduced insurance costs (ships were at lower risk of being captured). \nThe composition of immigrants also shifted from single males towards entire families. Single males usually left their homes with little if any savings. Instead, families generally liquidated assets in Europe to finance their venture.\n\nThe American Revolution severely limited immigration to the United States. Economic historians differ however on the long-term impact of the Revolution. Sharon Salinger argues that the economic crisis that followed the war made long-term labour contracts unattractive. His analysis of Philadelphia’s population shows how the percentage of bound citizens fell from 17% to 6.4% over the course of the war. William Miller posits a more moderate theory, stating \"the Revolution (…) wrought disturbances upon white servitude. But these were temporary rather than lasting\". David Galenson supports this theory by proposing that British indentures never recovered, but Europeans from other nationalities replaced them.\n\nIn 1799 New York state abolished slavery. The existing slaves became indentured servants. That status was finally ended in 1827 and all the indentured obtained full freedom.\n\nA number of acts passed by both the American and the British governments fostered the decline of indentures. The English Passenger Vessels Act of 1803, which regulated travel conditions aboard ships, attempted to make transportation more expensive in order to stop emigration. The American abolition of imprisonment of debtors by federal law (passed in 1833) made prosecution of runaway servants more difficult, increasing the risk of indenture contract purchases.\n\nIn the 19th century, most indentures of this nature occurred in the old Northwest Territory. The permissibility of such indentures centered on the interpretation of \"involuntary servitude\" per the 1787 Northwest Ordinance, which declared: \"There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in the territory otherwise than in the punishment of crimes, whereof the Party shall have been duly convicted.\"\n\nThe permissibility (or not) of penal sanctions in labour became an issue of \"fundamental law\", in which it was questioned whether those sanctions or specific performance enforcements turned indentured servitude into \"involuntary servitude\". At the time when the Northwest Ordinance was constructed, white adult servants were still being imported into the United States, and thus, historically, it seems likely that the Ordinance's framers considered indenture to be a form of \"voluntary\" servitude. In essence, this means the indentured servant chose to work for someone who bought them something.\n\nThe Territory of Hawaii was the last place in the United States to widely use indentures, as by 1900 the practice had been abolished in the rest of the country and replaced by alternatives such as the credit-ticket system used to transport Chinese laborers. Prior to U.S. annexation, indentures were widely used to transport Japanese contract workers to Hawaii for plantation work. In the Organic Act of 1900, the U.S. prohibited further use of indentures in the territory and voided all such existing contracts, thus ending the practice.\n\nA half million Europeans went as indentured servants to the Caribbean (primarily the English-speaking islands of the Caribbean) before 1840. Most were young men, with dreams of owning their own land or striking it rich quick, who would essentially sell years of their labour in exchange for passage to the islands. However, forceful indenture also provided part of the servants: contemporaries report that youngsters were sometimes tricked into servitude in order to be exploited in the colonies.\n\nThe landowners on the islands would pay for a servant’s passage and then provide the servant with food, clothes, shelter and instruction during the agreed term. The servant would then be required to work in the landowner’s field for a term of bondage (usually four to seven years). During this term of bondage the servant had a status similar to a son of the master. For example, the servant was not allowed to marry without the master’s permission. Servants could own personal property. They could also complain to a local magistrate about mistreatment that exceeded community norms. However, a servant's contract could be sold or given away by his master.\n\nAfter the servant’s term was complete he became independent and was paid \"freedom dues\". These payments could take the form of land which would give the servant the opportunity to become an independent farmer or a free labourer. As free men with little money they became a political force that stood in opposition to the rich planters.\n\nIndentured servitude was a common part of the social landscape in England and Ireland during the 17th century. During the 17th century, British and Irish went to Barbados as both masters and as indentured servants. Some went as prisoners. During the Wars of the Three Kingdoms many Scottish and Irish prisoners of war were sold as indentured labourers to the colonies. There were also reports of kidnappings of youngsters to work as servants.\n\nAfter 1660, fewer indentured servants came from Europe to the Caribbean. Newly freed servant farmers, given 25–50 acres of land, were unable to make a living because profitable sugar plantations needed to cover hundreds of acres. However, profit could still be made through the tobacco trade, which was what these small 25-acre farms did to live comfortably. The landowners’ reputation as cruel masters became a deterrent to the potential indentured servant. In the 17th century, the islands became known as death traps, as between 33 and 50 percent of indentured servants died before they were freed, many from yellow fever, malaria and other diseases.\n\nWhen slavery ended in the British Empire in 1833, plantation owners turned to indentured servitude for inexpensive labour. These servants arrived from across the globe; the majority came from India where many indentured labourers came from to work in colonies requiring manual labour. As a result, today Indo-Caribbeans form a majority in Guyana, a plurality in Trinidad and Tobago and Suriname, and a substantial minority in Jamaica, Grenada, Barbados, St Lucia and other Caribbean islands. The British government finally ended indentures in the Caribbean in 1917 by prohibiting the further transportation of persons from India for purposes of servitude for debt.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47670512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47670512", "title": "Kaufmännische Schule Tauberbischofsheim", "text": "Kaufmännische Schule Tauberbischofsheim\n\nThe Kaufmännische Schule Tauberbischofsheim (KSTBB) (Anglicisation: \"Tauberbischofsheim Commercial High School\", also \"Tauberbischofsheim Vocational Business School\") includes five different types of vocational schools. The school board of the Kaufmännische Schule Tauberbischofsheim is the Main-Tauber-Kreis and the school campuses in Tauberbischofsheim, in Baden-Württemberg, Southern Germany.\n\nA vocational school was founded in Tauberbischofsheim in 1854, and was affiliated with a “trading post” until 1921. On August 15, 1901, the former City Council started the “bylaw for commercial training school in Tauberbischofsheim.” From November 1916 until May 1918, the “trading post” was completely closed because the only “trading teacher” had been called upon for military service in World War I.\n\nOn January 10, 1921, the Kaufmännische Schule Tauberbischofsheim was established by decree of the Ministry of Culture, in order to create a separation from the business school. The education of typing with a typewriter began as early as the autumn of 1924. In May 1925, the first class was taught in English. Starting in 1928, Tauberbischofsheim held the title “Aufbauoberrealschule” alongside the traditional Gymnasium, where one is awarded a diploma. On April 9, 1937, following the opening of the “commercial college”, two school trains were then set up to Tauberbischofsheim. With the beginning of the Second World War, the school system was set into place.\n\nWith the permission of the American Military, the school was the first commercial school in all of northern Baden that was allowed to teach again in the autumn of 1945. Josef Albicker was appointed as temporary headmaster. In 1956, the “Handels- und Höheren Handelschule mit Gemainschaftshaus” was built on Dr. Philipp-Adam-Ulrich-Straße and then inaugurated in 1957.\n\nOn September 7, 1967, the two-year business school was introduced as a pre-employment full-time school. The Economics High School was the first professional school to be opened in Main-Tauber-Kreis in 1968. In 1971, the first class was granted its diploma.\nFor the 75th anniversary of the Kaufmännischen Schule Tauberbischofsheim a school chronicle will be published. In 2004 the online school newspaper “Financial T(‘a)ime” was founded. In 2010 the concept of an “independently operating school” (OES) was introduced. In the same year, students and teachers from the partner school in Vitry-le-Francois, France, visited the Kaufmännische Schule Tauberbischofsheim and had the chance to experience the German school system. In 2011 Kaufmännische Schule Tauberbischofsheim won the \"European Language Label\" and in 2014 the \"Media Award AIM Academy \"for the best media concept of a vocational school in the Heilbronn-Franken region.\n\nIn 2014 began the renovation of the hall, the staircase and all sanitary facilities through the extensive renovation work on school buildings by the County. In order to help the success of inclusion the school will also be receiving an elevator as well as disabled toilets, to help approve accessibility.\n\nThe Commercial School Tauberbischofsheim offers in the form of full and part-time schools the following qualifications and professional fields:\n\n\n\n\n\nAs a part-time school, the commercial vocational school has the following features:\nAt the Kaufmännischen Schule Tauberbischofsheim the following apprenticeships are offered: banker, industrial clerk, office administrator, businessman for office communication, administrators, employee, warehouse operator, sellers, warehouseman and retail clerk.\n\nThe KSTBB has been an independently operated school since November 2010. This is based on the concept of the State of Baden-Württemberg as a, “comprehensive system of internal school quality development and changes in administrative control for vocational schools in Baden-Württemberg\". In this context, we developed a quality model that represents the characteristics, strengths and target areas of the school.\nShowcasing this are the following features:\n\nThe school newspaper is known around the school community and the town of Tauberbischofsheim and is offered at various prices.\n\nAt the school, a cooperation was developed with the French school “Lycee Alexandre Dumas”, located in Illkirch (Alsace) and the State Academy for training and staff development in schools of Baden-Württemberg as an education project for, “German-French virtual online market - application-oriented language learning by creation of virtual companies and handling of business processing and development.” This was part of the competition, “Language learning in the community – Using resources and building relationships” and was awarded the European Language Label in 2011.\n\nIn 2009, KSTBB received the Predicate Elite School of Sports award from the German Olympic Sports Confederation (DOSB) in cooperation with the Fencing-Club Tauberbischofsheim and four other partner schools in Tauberbischofsheim.\n\nThe “Student FAQ” (in German: \"Schüler-FAQ\") was started in 2011 as a way to promote students’ self-organization. The FAQ was co-developed largely by students and now includes more than 200 pages of prospective student questions and corresponding answers that are usually formulated from a student perspective. It is offered at school and especially to new students for recurring questions and gives targeted responses. The \"Student FAQ\" is on all school desktop computers and is also available online.\n\nIn 2014, KSTBB was awarded 15,000 euros as the second prize for the best media concept of a vocational school. The award was presented by the Academy for Innovative Education and Management (AIM) and was awarded in Heilbronn. Due to this, a successful introduction of modern media was achieved. In 2009, the school led the way as one of the first schools to install “Active Boards”. Through its online student newspaper Financial Times experiences were thus made accessible to everyone. Thus became the school Germany's point of contact for other schools that were interested in this technology.\n\nKSTBB is one of the twelve professional schools, which was selected in 2014 by the Ministry of Baden-Württemberg to participate in the experiment of the use of tablets in the classroom. Through this, the modern workings of the professional world are brought to the classroom as well as teaching the students the reality of our modern working world. To investigate the effect of tablets on the learning process, the experiment will be highly focused on the subjects of Mathematics, Economics, and Languages in a scientific manner.\n\nFor lunch, the school has a cafeteria combined with a coffee shop and an attached lounge.\n\nAt KSTBB the following events take place: Competence Days, school trips, the youth train for the Olympics, Christmas and End-Year celebrations, as well as project days. \nOther events and activities are organized by the students.\n\nThe following working groups and simulation games are offered: The FN youth project Franconian News, the Stock Market of the Unions, Stock Exchange simulation with the savings bank, shirt-store simulation game, the German Founder Award for Students, competition creative minds in the Tauber Valley, a decision training BEST (the \"career and study orientation\"), a school band and a project \"Alpine crossing for students with a mountain bike.\"\n\nA practice firm is a simulated enterprise. Students act with other practice firms with virtual goods and money. The goal is a stronger practical orientation of teaching. The practice firms of KSTBB operate on the \"Tauberbischofsheim model\" (TaubiMo). This has the following features: use of integrated enterprise software, implementation of the pedagogical principle of a closed shop, processing all entry and sales processes in a virtual market, quantitative and qualitative safeguard earnings, achieving a paperless office and the use of modern media (virtual networks in the form of an Online-Cloud). In 2014, the Leonardo da Vinci organization of Italian teachers from the business schools of Gubbio and Perugia, were interested in the model from KSTBB.\n\nKSTBB is one of the few schools in Germany and the first in the Main-Tauber-Kreis to offer the opportunity of taking the “European Financial Driver’s License”. Through the initiative “€FDL” the financial knowledge of young students as well as adults was tested, tested and confirmed with a certificate.\n\nThe languages taught at KSTBB are: German (for non-native speaker), English, Spanish, and French.\n\nKSTBB promotes student exchange projects with scholarship recipients from Spanish and English speaking countries, including students from The United States, who then live in Tauberbischofsheim with host families assigned to them by their exchange organizations.\n\nAt the vocational school of the Mercantile School the following courses are offered as a voluntary option: Seminar courses in the 12th grade as a \"special achievement\" for replacement of a fourth (written) or fifth (oral) final exam subject, a literature course in the 13th grade and a philosophy- psychology course in the 13th grade.\n\nWell Known Students:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58177272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58177272", "title": "Kendriya Vidyalaya, Hardoi", "text": "Kendriya Vidyalaya, Hardoi\n\nThe Kendriya Vidyalaya is a central government school in Hardoi that is instituted under the aegis of the Ministry of \nHuman Resource Development (MHRD). The literal of Kendriya Vidyalaya is \"central school\".\n\nIt is affialiated Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), New Delhi. The school came into existence in 2015. This school belongs to one of world's largest chains of schools, Kendriya Vidyalayas.\nThe Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, which literally translates to 'Central School Organisation', oversees the functioning of the school.\n\nShri Santosh Kumar Mall is the commissioner of the school. Shri Pulkit Khare (District Magistrate of Hardoi District) is the head of the thirteen membered Vidyalaya Management Committee (VMC) of the school. Sh.K.L Kishore is the Principal of the school.\nSanskrit is taught as a compulsory subject from class VI-VIII.\n"}
{"id": "54076323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54076323", "title": "Kot (lodging)", "text": "Kot (lodging)\n\nA kot (diminutive \"kotje\") is a type of student housing privately rented during the academic or school year in Belgium. The word \"kot\" is used in both Belgian Dutch and Belgian French, but not in standard Dutch or standard French.\n\nThe word comes from Flemish and means small shelter, nest, cabin (as in \"friet kot\", a chip shed, or \"kot à poule\", a chicken coop). It can also even refer to slums. This term specifically used in Belgium refers to a cupboard (\"un kot à balais\", a broom cupboard) and by extension any small room such as a student room. It emphasizes the narrow aspect which is typically encountered in such housing. \n\nThese kots can be either individual or part of a shared house, in which a certain area is public (the kitchen, the toilets and showers, etc.) casually called \"commu\" (rooms shared in common). \n\nThe word \"kot\" is still in use in the Dunkirk dialect, pronounced “kotsheu“ (a small kot), meaning a shed, a garden shed, a junk room.\n\nDerived words include: \nSome community kots take part in a project, in particular in Louvain-la-Neuve. These projects offer a large variety of activities. The project could be organizing a weekly spaghetti party, homework support, supporting a humanitarian organization. The only boundary is the creativity in management skills and the ability to bring people together. Such a project is called a \"project kot\".\n\n"}
{"id": "24220290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24220290", "title": "Language law of Slovakia", "text": "Language law of Slovakia\n\nThe state language law of Slovakia fixes the status and regulates the use of the Slovak language. It took force in 1995 and underwent a major amendment in 2009.\n\nThe 2009 amendment has been severely criticized by Hungarians in Slovakia, as well as the government, civil organizations and general public of neighboring Hungary, for being discriminatory toward Hungarians and their rights to use their Hungarian language. The controversy about the law is one of the key points in Hungary–Slovakia relations, brought to their lowest point for many years.\n\nThe law declares priority for the Slovak language over any other language spoken in Slovakia, as it claims the Slovak language is \"an articulation of sovereignty of the Slovak Republic\". In the mixed territories, bilingualism is preserved. In towns with a minority of at least 10%, it is possible to use the minority language in certain official situations. The law names several circumstances of public and official situations,  – e.g. doctors (although all medical personnel are exempt from the financial sanctions) – in which the use of the Slovak language should take precedence both in written and spoken form. Despite this, the law does not apply to the Czech language, which can be used in any circumstance and occasion whatsoever, as Czech and Slovak are mutually intelligible.\n\nThe 2009 modifications include issuing penalties of 100 to 5000 euros for not using Slovak when prescribed by the law despite repeated written notice.\n\nThe first law about language use was made in 1990, when Slovakia was part of Czechoslovakia. In communities having at least a 20% minority population, the minority language could be (and was) used in all official communications.\n\nIn 1993, Czechoslovakia dissolved into the Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Slovak National Party and its cultural organization Matica Slovenska urged the creation of laws to \"protect\" the state language. The modifications (called \"language law without exceptions\") of 1995 contained punishments for not using Slovak in official communication, regardless of the percentage of the minority in the area. This was later shown to violate the constitution of Slovakia and was abolished by the Constitutional Court. The new 1995 law vacates the earlier.\n\nFor the accession of Slovakia to the European Union, Slovakia had to accept a law on minority language use. This was created in 1999, and allowed use of minority languages in public situations (such as hospitals) in areas with at least 20% minority.\n\nIn 2009 the Slovak parliament passed a language law, mandating preferential use of the state language – Slovak. Use of a non-state language when conducting business could carry a financial penalty. Similarly, a penalty could be given for publishing books, journals or scientific proceedings in a language other than Slovak, or for singing in public in languages other than Slovak or the song's original language.\n\nOpponents have described the law as one that \"criminalises the use of Hungarian;\"however, according to the Slovak government, the law itself doesn't interfere with use of minority languages.\n\nGordon Bajnai, the Hungarian Prime Minister, has charged Slovakia of scapegoating Hungarian speakers. Hungarian foreign minister Péter Balázs compared the creation of the language law to the politics of the Nicolae Ceauşescu regime on the use of language. Hungarian newspaper \"Budapest Times\" has questioned the dual standards for use the Czech language in Slovakia; however, this charge ignores the mutual intelligibility between Czech and Slovak, which renders them compatible in business and law.\n\nPresident of Hungary László Sólyom expressed his worries about the law, because according to him the law violates \"the spirit and at some places the word\" of several bi- and multilateral agreements, and its perceived philosophy of \"converting a multi-ethnic state to homogenous nation state\" and \"forced assimilation\" is incompatible with the values of the European Union and the international laws protecting minorities.\n\nHungarian Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai said the law violates the words and the spirit of several bilateral and international agreements. He said Slovak politicians \"do nationalism for a living\" and he suspects the minority issues are getting into the foreground in Slovakia \"to cover real problems\".\n\nPéter Balázs, Foreign Minister of Hungary, told \"Die Presse\" that Robert Fico, the Slovak Prime Minister, is \"unfortunately trying to get popularity by cheap means\".\n\nAccording to Balázs, the real reason for the language law is gaining voters for the parliamentary elections of next year in Slovakia, by \"playing the 'Hungarian card'\", and sees the issue as \"part of a little political game\". He also stated that regarding the bilateral relations, he doesn't expect much from Robert Fico any more. Hungarian foreign minister Péter Balázs compared the creation of the language law to the politics of the Ceauşescu regime on the use of language.\n\nAll four parties of the Parliament of Hungary (Hungarian Socialist Party, Fidesz, Christian Democratic People's Party, Alliance of Free Democrats) issued a joint declaration asking Slovakia to repel the legislation.\n\nViktor Orbán, chairman of Hungary's opposition Fidesz and a former Prime Minister (1998–2002), said no 20th-century country \"would have allowed themselves\" such regulations, and called it an \"absurdity\" that Slovaks do it at the end of the first decade of the 21st century. Orbán added that not only democracies \"but also mentally sound regimes\" would not have tried creating such regulations, or \"at least not without the risk of being ridiculed\".\n\nFormer Hungarian Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány also condemned the law in his blog, calling it an \"outrage\", and stated that there can be \"no explanation or excuse\" to make it acceptable:\n\nLajos Bokros, Member of the European Parliament (MEP) and former Hungarian Minister of Finance, condemned the law in a letter stating that Hungarians in Slovakia \"want to get along on their homeland\", and reminded Slovakia's MEPs that the Hungarian minority did a great contribution to Slovakia joining the European Union and the Eurozone.\n\nHungarian radical right-wing party Jobbik organized a half-road block demonstration on the border in Komárom, stating that \"the issue is no longer an internal affair of Slovakia, but an issue of European level\". Chairman Gábor Vona called the law \"the shame of Europe\", by which Slovakia \"goes beyond the frameworks of democracy\", he called the Slovak politics \"aggressive and racist\".\nVona urged peace between Hungary and Slovakia as he fears there will be a laughing third who profits from the conflicts, naming globalization as a common enemy of the two nations.\n\nThe Research Institute for Linguistics of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences published a Statement on the Amendment of the Slovak Language Law, and it has been signed by many people from around the world, including linguists such as Noam Chomsky, Peter Trudgill, Bernard Comrie, Ian Roberts, and Ruth Wodak.\n\nThe Ethnic-National Minority Institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences analyzed the law and found that \"in the interest of protecting and supporting the mother tongue, the Slovak legislature's law amendment violates several basic rights the protection of which is in any case required by international legal obligations\". The institute brought an example of a fireman helping an escaping person who does not speak Slovak, and is forced to only reply in Slovak, according to their analysis of the law.\n\nOrganization for Security and Co-operation in Europe High Commissioner on National Minorities, Knut Vollebæk, reviewed the law and issued a report in which he concluded that:\n\nThe Party of the Hungarian Coalition (MKP) asked the Slovak Government to release communication exchanged between them and Vollebæk so that the opinion of Vollebæk regarding the law could not be misrepresented or distorted. According to the Slovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs the report was released unchanged and in full. Spokesman Peter Stano stated: \"It is obvious that the Party of the Hungarian Coalition was unable to question the reliability of Vollebæk report, that law is following the legitimate goal and it's in accordance with all international norms.\" Vollebaek will monitor the situation until the law on minority language use will reach the level of the state language law in Slovakia.\n\nSlovak linguists from the Ľudovít Štúr Institute of Linguistics of the Slovak Academy of Sciences are reluctant to comment on the amendment, as the issue is highly politicised. In their opinion, however, aside from the fines, the law introduces only minor changes to the wording previously enacted.\n\nAccording to the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages (EBLUL), the President of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek, said the issue was beyond being simply an affair between Slovakia and Hungary and was becoming an issue of the whole European Union because it harms the spirit of European integration and the principles of democracy. However, he said \"we need to study it thoroughly in order to find out whether the legal framework has been violated\".\n\nMichael Gahler, Member of the European Parliament (MEP) and Vice-Chairman of the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, also criticized the act, saying Slovak Prime Minister Robert Fico and his coalition partners \"have yet neither mentally nor politically arrived in Europe\". Gahler stated that Slovakia is violating \"commonly respected standards in the EU\" and is disregarding the recommendations of the Council of Europe, \"which foresee the extended use of minority languages\". According to Gahler, Slovakia risks discrediting itself as an EU member and could again become a \"totalitarian state\" if the new provisions are consistently applied. He suggested that a \"modern and open Slovakia communicating and cooperating closely with its neighbours\" would be better both for the country and its citizens; however, he does not expect this from the present Slovak government coalition.\n\nAccording to Hans Heinrich Hansen, president of the Federal Union of European Nationalities (FUEN), \"a language law which makes it a punishable offence to use a language does not belong on the statute books of a European country\". He said this law is \"totally absurd\" and \"insane\".\nFUEN published an article titled \"The right to one's own native language – the language law in Slovakia\" in which Hansen is quoted as arguing that the authors of the law made their \"first main error in reasoning\" by failing to realize that \"Hungarian is not a foreign language in Slovakia, but the native language of around 500,000 Hungarian-speaking citizens\". According to Hansen, Slovakia must protect and promote the native language of all its citizens, also of its Hungarian-speaking citizens.\n\nHansen recommended examination of a good example of minority treatment, that of the Swedish-speaking population in Finland. He promised that FUEN will speak in Brussels about the issue of the law.\n\nKálmán Petőcz of the independent Forum Minority Research Institute in Slovakia told IPS that the law \"could be seen as an expression of the superiority of Slovaks over all other nationalities in Slovakia\". He said it only serves to worsen the everyday relations between Slovaks and ethnic Hungarians, and also quoted research \"showing that many young Slovak schoolchildren have prejudiced attitudes towards their Hungarian counterparts\".\n\nPetőcz thinks some politicians in the government are \"clearly nationalist and anti-Hungarian\", however he sees most of the government as \"just populist\", who try to find \"any 'enemy' to pick on and use that to win votes\".\n\nLászló Ollós, a political analyst of the same institute, criticized the law for being too ambiguous, in order \"to give as much power as possible to bureaucrats, so that they alone can decide when to apply the law and when not to\".\n\nOn September 1, ethnic Hungarians of Slovakia held a demonstration in the stadium of Dunajská Streda () against the law. The BBC gives the number of protesters as around 10,000, but the Slovak paper \"Pravda\" cites only 6,000. The event was attended by several hundred extremists, mostly Hungarian nationals, who expressed their vocal support for a territorial autonomy and chanted \"Death to Trianon\". These were not addressed directly nor denounced ex post by the organizing party of SMK and its leader Pál Csaky. The attendees also claimed that they were \"not protesting against Slovaks in general, they were protesting the fact, that they have no rights whatsoever as a national minority\". All the major Slovak political parties denounced the meeting as counterproductive feat, that will only exacerbate the tension.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29154043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29154043", "title": "Malaysian Skills Certification System", "text": "Malaysian Skills Certification System\n\nThe Malaysian Skills Certification System () is a skills and work-based certification system in Malaysia that is achieved through assessment and training. Candidates can receive Malaysian Skills award if they meet the requirements of the National Occupational Skills Standard developed and regulated by the Department of Skills Development (formerly known as the National Vocational Training Council).\n\nIt is conferred as a formal recognised certificate to individuals who has shown capabilities that acquired or practised with competencies to do a task or work, which usually in the form of basic vocational skills. The criteria and standards of the Malaysian Skills Certification System are articulated with higher level qualifications to enable holders to progress from the level of semi skills, to skilled production, right up to supervisory, executive and managerial functions.\n\nThe Malaysian Skills Certification System was established in 1993 to replace the National Trade Certification System () as part of a larger reform to streamline the higher and further education systems in Malaysia. The system was also eventually mapped to the Malaysian Qualifications Framework in 2007 providing a framework for the credit equivalency and transfer between the vocational education and training sectors and the higher education sectors.\n\nThere are currently 5 levels of awards in the Malaysian Skills Certification System:\n\nThe certifications can be earned through:\n\nThere is no minimum credit requirement for Skills Certificates and they are granted according to the assessed skills and levels attained.\n\nThe Malaysian Skills Certification System is classified according to the National Occupational Skills Standard into the following sectors:\n\nAccording to the Malaysian Qualifications Framework, the Malaysian Skills Certification System is mapped to the following equivalents in the higher education and academic sector:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10877718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10877718", "title": "Martha Siegel", "text": "Martha Siegel\n\nMartha Jochnowitz Siegel is an American applied mathematician, probability theorist and mathematics educator who served as the editor of \"Mathematics Magazine\" from 1991 to 1996. In 2017 she won the Yueh-Gin Gung and Dr. Charles Y. Hu Award for Distinguished Service of the Mathematical Association of America for \"her remarkable leadership in guiding the national conversation on undergraduate mathematics curriculum\". She was a faculty member in the mathematics department of Towson University from 1971 until 2015, when she became a professor emerita.\n\nSiegel grew up in Brooklyn, the daughter of civil engineer Nat Jochnowitz. She became interested in mathematics through her father's interest in mathematical puzzles, and through the calculation of baseball statistics for the Brooklyn Dodgers. She did her undergraduate studies in mathematics at Russell Sage College, a small women's college in Troy, New York, while also taking classes at the nearby men-only Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, as at that time Russell Sage had no mathematics department. At Russell Sage, she was a Kellas honor student, and president of the science club. She completed her Ph.D. in 1969 at the University of Rochester; her dissertation, \"On Birth and Death Processes\", was supervised by Johannes Kemperman. During graduate school and until her 1971 move to Towson, she was on the faculty at Goucher College.\n\nAt Towson, in 1981, Siegel founded an innovative and still-ongoing undergraduate applied mathematics program involving projects connected to local business and government. She is a co-author of the discrete mathematics and precalculus textbooks \"Finite Mathematics and Its Applications\" and \"Functioning in the Real World\". She also served as chair of a committee of the Mathematical Association of America charged with producing the 2015 edition of their \"MAA Curriculum Guide to Undergraduate Majors in the Mathematical Sciences\".\n"}
{"id": "1016906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1016906", "title": "Master of Management", "text": "Master of Management\n\nThe Master of Management (MM, MBM,MIM, MMgt) is a post-graduate master’s degree awarded to students who normally complete a one- to two-year program of graduate level coursework in business management at an accredited academic institution. As the program is designed for students interested in entering leadership roles, the degree attracts applicants from diverse academic disciplines. The MM program structure is similar to that of the Master of Business Administration, Master of Arts in Management, and Master of Science in Management degrees.\n\nThe MM structure varies from program to program, but typically adheres to the rigor of Management science. The mode delivery of the program can be full-time, part-time, distance-learning, accelerated, or executive. \n\nThe MM program for younger professionals with limited professional experience often resembles an MBA program. It typically prepares students to handle management issues in all areas of business with the option to concentrate or specialize in one area. Most programs begin with a set of required courses and then offer more specialized courses two thirds of the way through the program. Topics in the MM program often include those listed aside, while concentrations may focus on accounting, finance, business administration, international business/global management, marketing management, supply chain management, human resources, nonprofit management, and entrepreneurship. \n\nThe MM program for senior professionals with managerial experience (typically 10+ years) often resembles an Executive MBA (EMBA) program. It typically prepares students to handle the tasks associated with interdisciplinary business-related subjects such as ethical decision making, business law, global business values, workplace security, corporate crime, and employee motivation. These programs focuses on helping entry and mid level managers improve their management practice with cultural competence that enable them to function across England, Canada, India, China and Brazil.\n\nBusiness school admission committees normally evaluate applicants based on bachelor degree and GPA score (and graduate GPA if applicable), detailed resume, letters of recommendation, essays, and personal interviews. Based on these indicators, the committee decides if the applicant is suitable for the academic profile of the program, can demonstrate considerable leadership potential, and contribute positively to the student body of the school as a whole.\n\n"}
{"id": "7720399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720399", "title": "Memory work", "text": "Memory work\n\nMemory work is a process of engaging with the past which has both an ethical and historical dimension.\n\nThe premise for memory work or \"travail de memoire\" is that history is not memory. We try to represent the past in the present through memory, history and the archives. As Paul Ricoeur argued, memory alone is fallible. Historical accounts are always partial and potentially misrepresent since historians do not work with bare, uninterpreted facts. Historians construct and use archives that contain traces of the past. However, historians and librarians determine which traces are preserved and stored. This is an interpretive activity. Historians pose questions to which the archives responds leading them to “facts that can be asserted in singular, discrete propositions that usually include dates, places, proper names, and verbs of action or condition”. Individuals remember events and experiences some of which they share with a collective. Through mutual reconstruction and recounting collective memory is reconstructed. Individuals are born into familial discourse which already provides a backdrop of communal memories against which individual memories are shaped. A group's communal memory becomes its common knowledge which creates a social bond, a sense of belonging and identity. Professional historians attempt to corroborate, correct, or refute collective memory. Memory work then entails adding an ethical component which acknowledges the responsibility towards revisiting distorted histories thereby decreasing the risk of social exclusion and increasing the possibility of social cohesion of at-risk groups.\n\nThe concept of memory-work as distinguished from history-as-memory finds a textbook case in the Vichy Syndrome as described by Rousso. His title uses medical lexicon to refer to history-memory as dependent on working consciously with unconscious memories to revise accounts of history. This calls for an expanded archive that includes the \"oral and popular tradition\" as well as the written traditions normally associated with the archives.\n\nPierre Nora, introduced 'lieu de mémoire' about 25 years ago, he traced the surge in memory work at the level of the nation-state to the revisiting of distorted histories of the anti-Semitic Vichy France (1940-1944) following the death of Charles de Gaulle in 1970. Structural changes resulted from the end of the peasantry and the dramatic economic slump as oil prices worldwide rose in 1974. Added to this was the intellectual collapse of Marxism precipitated in part by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn’s \"Gulag Archipelago\" which forced the French to rethink attitudes towards the past. 'Lieu de mémoire' closed down perspectives to better understand cultural memory, instead of opening up perspectives. He associated memory with place, and location.\n\nDuring memory work, the process of producing an image or what we refer to as the production of the imaginary, is central. Therefore, the key in the analysis of remembered history are contradictions.\n\nAfter meeting at Yale University in 1966, Jacques Derrida was a colleague and friend of Paul de Man's until de Man's death in 1983. In 1984 Derrida gave three lectures, including one at Yale University on the art of memory. In \"Memories:for Paul de Man\" described the relationship between memory work and deconstruction in this often-cited passage.\n\nBarbara Gabriel provided a model for reading the complexities of memory and forgetting by situating \"unheimlich\" within the \"heimlich\", in a Freudian 'one within the other structure'. As point of departure Gabriel examined Edgar Reitz's eleven-part West German television series entitled \"Heimat\". Reitz' work was in response to a larger movement in Germany national memory work provoked in part by an American television series entitled the \"Holocaust\" followed viewed by millions. As European art in general and German art in particular resurged in the 1960s, artists like Günter Grass and Edgar Reitz captured international attention as they grappled with issues of identity in a divided, post-Holocaust Germany. Gabriel developed the concept of an impulse towards national memory work in Germany that stemmed from a haunted subject yearning for a lost, far away, nostalgic place, a utopic homeland. \"How do we confront that which we have excluded in order to be, whether it is the return of the repressed or the return of the strangers?\" In other words, that which we fear as 'other' is within ourselves through our shared humanity. Repressed memories haunt all of us.\n\nAfter attending a memory methodology workshop in Cape Town, South Africa in 2005 on forced removal traumas, Australian performance artist Tanya Heyward, created a performance piece called \"Site\" in Melbourne Watch House in 2006. She referred to a burial ground at Prestwich Street, Cape Town, South Africa with three thousand skeletons dating back to Dutch colonization, the largest of its kind in the South Africa.\n\nThe concept of memory work is part of a sociological imagination from a post-national point of view. Expanding on Norbert Loeffler: The idea of one national history is only acceptable as a question, not as an answer.\n\nMemory work is related to identity work often associated with displaced persons. Some of the most provocative research on memory work has been authored by the Pied-noir, or French colonials in Algeria, who returned to France following the Algerian War. Examples of such thinkers include Jacques Derrida and Hélène Cixous. Another major writer in this field, Julia Kristeva, also moved away from the country of her birth, having emigrated to France from Bulgaria when she was 24.\n\n"}
{"id": "22208238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22208238", "title": "Moscow State University of Fine Chemical Technologies", "text": "Moscow State University of Fine Chemical Technologies\n\nMoscow State University of Fine Chemical Technologies named after M.V. Lomonosov (traditional abbreviation \"MITHT\") is one of the oldest universities in the country that offer training in a wide range of specialties in the field of chemical technology.\n\nCurrently, there are more than 4,500 students in nine areas of undergraduate, 28 master's programs and 23 scientific specialties for training of candidates and doctors of science. In MITHT there are 8 dissertation councils for doctoral and PhD theses.\n\nResearch and teaching activities are performed by more than 400 professors and 158 scientists, including more than 120 doctors of science and professors. Located in Moscow at Vernadsky Avenue, Building 86 (new building complex) and Malaya Pirogovskaya, Building 1 (historic building).\n\nHistory of the University and its continuing operations as a higher education institution begins 1 July 1900 and covers several stages.\n\n1 July (14 July, New Style) 1900 was organized the Moscow Higher Women Courses (MHWC). Their structure originally consisted of two departments: History and Philosophy and Physics and Mathematics. On the last one were soon opened two offices: mathematical and natural, and after a few years two more – medical and chemical-pharmaceutical. The initiators and the first lecturers were outstanding scientists, academics subsequently S. A. Chaplygin, V. I. Vernadsky, N. D. Zelinsky (the inventor of the gas mask (1916)), Professors V. F. Davidov, B. K. Mlodzeevskii, A. N. Reformatsky, A. A. Eichenwald, S. G. Krapivin. The first director of MHWC was Professor V. I. Guerrier.\n\nIn 1905 as a director was elected S. A. Chaplygin, the leading scientist in the field of hydro- and aerodynamics, the organizer of the construction of school buildings on the Malaya Pirogovskaya street (formerly Devichie Pole). He remained in that post until 1918.\n\nBy the beginning of World War I MHWC turned into the one of the largest higher education institutions in the country. The number of trainees reached 710, and during the existence of courses released 5760 professionals. In turning into a first-class university MHWC paramount importance had an exceptional organizational skill of S. A. Chaplygin, later shown to them with equal brilliance in creating TsAGI.\n\n16 October 1918 MHWC were converted into second Moscow State University. The first rector of the 2nd Moscow State University was appointed academician S. S. Nametkin who worked since 1913 as a head of the Department of Organic Chemistry of MHWC. As rector, he remained until 1924. As part of the 2nd Moscow State University became the chemical-pharmaceutical department, which in 1919 was transformed into the chemical and pharmaceutical department. At this time, on the faculty worked well-known Professors A. M. Berkengeim, B. K. Mlodzeevskii, S. S. Nametkin, M. I. Prozin, A. N. Reformatsky, O. N. Tsuberbiller. In 1929, the faculty became a chemical faculty of the university type with specialties such as:\n\nFaculty graduates go to work in the factories, involve in the implementation of research projects that receive a wide scope. During 1922 – 1928 years it has been published about 300 papers and 11 monographs. The greatest successes are achieved in the fields of organic and pharmaceutical chemistry under the direction of heads of departments, academics S. S. Nametkin, B. M. Rodionov, Professor A. M. Berkengeim. Production of new drugs being introduced in the pharmaceutical factory belonging to faculty.\n\n18 April 1930 by order of the People's Commissariat second MSU was reorganized into three independent institutions: Medical (now RSMU them. Pirogov) Pedagogical (now MPSU), and Chemical Technology (now MITHT). Last transferred to the jurisdiction of the Vsehimprom VSNKh USSR. In addressing this issue directly involved Sergo Ordzhonikidze.\n\n10 May 1931 Chemical and Pharmaceutical Faculty became an independent and received a new name – the Moscow Institute of Fine Chemical Technology (MITHT). Historically, the name of the Institute is due to the nature of objects that are studied by students: they were small capacity chemical and pharmaceutical technology, technology of platinum group metals and rare-earth elements. From this moment begins a new stage of development of the institution, which is quickly becoming one of the leading universities in the chemical industry. Front of it set the goal of training for high-tech industries of chemical technology. In MITHT the first time in the country began to train engineers on the technology of thin inorganic products, synthetic rubber, thin organic produce synthetic liquid fuels, organometallic compounds and a number of other specialties.\n\nIn the process of restructuring of education at the institute have been preserved and developed the best traditions of MHWC and 2nd Moscow State University: a high level of theoretical training and a combination of academic and scientific work, helped by the fact that the teaching work at the institute and chairing of departments were performed by outstanding scientists and educators which created a school and research areas.\n\nSpecial departments were prepared engineers for industries which were still being created in the first five years. At the time, were of great importance establishment of a domestic pharmaceutical industry and the country's liberation on imports of medicines. Were developed and implemented methods of production of such drugs as atophan, benzocaine, procaine, bromural, thiokol, ichtyol, validol, antipyrine, caffeine, alkaloids and others. In 1938, in MITHT under the leadership of academic A. N. Nesmeyanov (later President of the RAS) began work in the field of organometallic compounds. Also, the Institute prepared professionals for the companies producing such important national defense materials, such as tungsten, molybdenum, vanadium, and rare-earth elements. So, Professor I. Ya. Bashilov created the production technology of uranium and radium. And under the guidance of Professor G. A. Meyerson were carried out important work on carbothermy and getting super-hard alloys.\n\n7 May 1940 for academic achievement and great progress in the preparation of chemists institute is named after the outstanding Russian scientist Mikhail Vasilievich Lomonosov.\n\nDuring the war, groups of departments in collaboration with industry and research institutes conduct intensive research on defense-related development and implementation of the executed work. Thus, under the supervision of Professor N. I. Gelperin was created the most powerful bomb in World War II – FAB-5000NG that terrified Hitlerites. Efforts of the Institute as a whole and individual professors and teachers were appreciated by the country. Professors B. A. Dogadkin, N. I. Krasnopevtsev, V. V. Lebedinskij, S. S. Medvedev, S. I. Sklyarenko and Ya. K. Sirkin were awarded the Stalin Prize laureates, and associate professor K. A. Bolshakov won that title twice.\n\nThe post-war period was characterized by intensive work of the Institute staff in the aftermath of the war, the creation of the necessary conditions for teaching and research. Among the most important achievements of the postwar period MITHT need to include: \n\nThe high scientific – technical research conducted at the institute, evidenced by the fact that MITHT became one of the first places among the universities and research institutes on the number of implemented inventions. Employees of the institute published 450–500 scientific papers and received 50–60 invention certificates a year. The Institute conducts research on economic agreements and contracts on cooperation with industry and research institutes, whose number exceeded 150.\n\nMITHT, in fact, has turned into a complex of the university and research institutes. On 2500–3000 students, in addition to 400 professors and lecturers, employed more than 900 scientists. Two to one – that is the ratio of students, academic and teaching staff, which was reached in MITHT. Good specialist, engineer cannot be prepared without bringing him to participate in real, serious scientific research in the learning process.\n\n11 February 1971 for his services to the training of specialists for the national economy and the development of scientific research institute was awarded the Order of the Red Banner of Labour.\n\nEducation in MITHT always featured a deep fundamental training, which included, along with a full range of natural sciences study the big cycle engineering and technological disciplines. Special training was carried out by the so-called \"thin\" chemical technologies that are, as a rule, small capacity technology, implemented on the basis of the latest achievements of chemical science and technology. That is, in fact, the students received a university degree in combination with engineering training.\n\nIn 1992, the Moscow Institute of Fine Chemical Technology named after M. V. Lomonosov has received a new, higher educational status – status of the Academy. With the name change has changed the status and range of activities of the institute along with old technology, new specialty Humanitarian – Management Profile: \"Economics and Management (chemical industry)\", \"Environmental Protection\", \"Standardization and Certification\". These specialties are subject to major technologies and solve their narrow-profile tasks.\n\nBefore the transition to a tiered structure the education of students was carried out in one direction, \"Chemical Technology and Biotechnology\", which consists of seven specialties. After the transition academy led training in seven areas of undergraduate, graduate five areas (including 26 master's programs) and 13 majors (including 25 majors) in full-time and part-correspondence courses, and conducted post-graduate education in 24 specialties and additional education in primary educational programs MITHT.\n\nTo implement in MITHT a tiered system of higher education were opened new training units. Along with main faculties teaching of students was performed at the Faculty of Natural Science, Faculty of Humanities, Faculty of Management, Economics and Environment, Faculty of Engineering, Faculty of further education at the Institute of Distance Education.\n\nAccording to the Federal Agency for Supervision in Education and Science in 2008 in MITHT worked one of the most highly qualified scientific and technical teaching staff of universities and academies of Russia: doctors and candidates of sciences accounted for about 80% of the teachers. At the academy a total enrollment of 4,500 undergraduate and graduate students, taught 119 professors, doctors, and 218 associate professors, candidates of sciences.\n\nIn 2011, the Academy received a University status.\n\nThe successes of the University in education, research and innovation, the recognition of the scientific and pedagogical schools, its international status and worldwide fame are undoubtedly merit in the first professors, assistant professors, lecturers, and they have created in the walls of the university unique creative scientific and educational environment. Friendly and supportive atmosphere of the business and human interaction with the students and teachers together form the necessary conditions for the development of the individual, focused, motivated professional growth.\n\n\n\n\nChemistry:\n\nChemical technology:\n\nBiotechnology:\n\nMaterials science and technology of materials:\n\nTechnosphere Safety:\n\nStandardization and Certification:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53423552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53423552", "title": "Myra Curtis", "text": "Myra Curtis\n\nDame Myra Curtis DBE (1886–1971) was an editor, civil servant and the principal of Newnham College, Cambridge from 1942 to 1954.\n"}
{"id": "9089670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9089670", "title": "National Academic Recognition Information Centre", "text": "National Academic Recognition Information Centre\n\nAll EU and EEA states and all the associated countries in Central and Eastern Europe and Cyprus have a designated National Academic Recognition Information Centre (NARIC), which provides a way to compare academic qualifications as part of the Bologna Process. Together they form the NARIC network.\n\nIndividual NARICs are coordinated by the NARIC Network, an initiative of the European Commission to improve recognition of academic qualifications and study between European countries. It is part of the Commission's SOCRATES/ERASMUS programme, aimed at improving the mobility of students and staff between higher education institutions.\n\nEach country's NARIC is designated by its Ministry of Education, but they differ in status and scope of work. In most European countries, institutions of higher education make their own decision on what foreign qualifications or study they will accept, and so most NARICs have only an advisory role.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39994938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39994938", "title": "Official Languages Ordinance", "text": "Official Languages Ordinance\n\nThe Official Languages Ordinance is an ordinance of Hong Kong enacted for the purpose of specifying the status and use of official languages of the territory. Both Chinese and English are declared official languages with equal status in the ordinance, and are to be used in communication between the government and members of the public. It dictates that all ordinances would be enacted and published in both languages, and allows judicial officers the choice of using either language in court proceedings.\n\nWhile no law existed prior to 1974 to designate official languages in Hong Kong, by practice, English was the sole language used in all branches of the British colonial government. Under public pressure, the Official Languages Ordinance was enacted in 1974 to declare that both English and Chinese may be used in communication between the government and the public. Despite the usage of different dialects in spoken Chinese, the government chose not to specify a dialect as an official language, instead indicating \"Chinese\" as an official language, allowing any dialect to be used. Since most of the local population spoke Cantonese, it became the most frequently used dialect in official communication.\n\n"}
{"id": "309357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=309357", "title": "PL/C", "text": "PL/C\n\nPL/C is a computer programming language developed at Cornell University with the specific goal of being used for teaching programming. It is based on IBM's PL/I language, and was designed in the early 1970s. Cornell also developed a compiler for the language that was based on its earlier CUPL compiler, and it was widely used in college-level programming courses. The two researchers and academic teachers who designed PL/C were Richard W. Conway and Thomas R. Wilcox. They submitted the famous article \"Design and implementation of a diagnostic compiler for PL/I\" published in the Communications of ACM in March 1973, pages 169-179. \nPL/C eliminated some of the more complex features of PL/I, and added extensive debugging and error recovery facilities. PL/C is a subset of PL/I. A program that runs without error under the PL/C compiler should run under PL/I and produce the same results, unless certain incompatible diagnostic features, such as a macro section (begun by a $MACRO statement and finished by a $MEND statement), were used.The PL/C compiler had the unusual capability of never failing to compile any program, through the use of extensive automatic correction of many syntax errors and by converting any remaining syntax errors to output statements.\n\n"}
{"id": "12126283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12126283", "title": "Peter O'Leary (referee)", "text": "Peter O'Leary (referee)\n\nPeter O'Leary (born 3 March 1972) is a New Zealand former Association football referee, previously of Wellington but now is residing and working in Whangarei. He operated in the Australian A-League and the New Zealand Football Championship, and his other occupation is as a biology teacher at Whangarei's Tikipunga High School.\n\nHe currently has the record for controlling the most matches in the FIFA World Club Cup.\n\nHe first took up refereeing in 1994. He has officiated in many Oceania Football Confederation tournaments since becoming a FIFA referee in 2003, notably the OFC Nations Cup in 2004, and the Oceania Club Championship in 2006.\n\nIn 2007, he was selected to officiate at the FIFA Under-20 World Cup in Canada during June and July of that year. He took charge of the Group F game between Nigeria and Costa Rica at the Royal Athletic Park in Victoria, British Columbia, on 1 July. He was then assigned the Group B match between Uruguay and Jordan at the Swangard Stadium in Burnaby, on 4 July. At the English Premiership tie between Aston Villa and Sunderland F.C. as a guest of top English referee Steve Bennett, O’Leary was summoned from the stands to assume Bennett’s role on the touchline as 4th official for the second half of the match.\n\nO'Leary officiated at the FIFA Club World Cup in Japan, as the referee for the fifth place playoff between Adelaide United and Al Ahly and at the 2009 FIFA U-20 World Cup in Egypt, refereeing group games between Italy and Trinidad and Tobago and between Hungary and the United Arab Emirates, along with one game at the 2009 FIFA Club World Cup in United Arab Emirates, refereeing TP Mazembe and Pohang Steelers FC.\n\nO'Leary was included on the short list to officiate at the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa along with fellow New Zealand referee Michael Hester, both of whom were confirmed in the final 30 officials to take charge at the finals.\n\nO'Leary refereed the 2015 AFC Asian Cup match between Korea Republic and Oman. \n\nO'Leary retired in 2015, after controlling his 64th A-League game.\n\nOn 19 June 2014, he was announced as the referee for the group match between Nigeria and Bosnia-Herzegovina at the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil. The match was won by Nigeria 1-0 after a goal by Edin Džeko of Bosnia-Herzegovina was disallowed when he was ruled offside by the assistant referee. Peter O’Leary, later admitted that Džeko's goal was disallowed in error. He was the fourth official for the match between France and Honduras.\n"}
{"id": "37879808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37879808", "title": "PlanetRead", "text": "PlanetRead\n\nPlanetRead is a non-profit founded by Ashoka Fellow, Brij Kothari, to provide Same Language Subtitling on Bollywood music videos in the same language that they are sung in to promote functional literacy. There are an estimated 650 million literate people in India. In reality, half the so-called ‘literates,’ more than 300 million people, can best be called ‘early-literate.’ They cannot read, for example, newspaper headlines.\n\nSame Language Subtitling (SLS) has been implemented on existing Bollywood film songs on TV, in 10 languages:\nA Hindi song is shown with the lyrics subtitled in Hindi, Tamil songs with Tamil subtitles, and so on. What you hear is what you read. The subtitles are designed to change the color of every word in perfect timing with the song. SLS is cost-effective. On a Hindi program, one U.S. dollar gives reading practice to 5,000 people for one year.\n\nIIM Ahmedabad and PlanetRead Trust have nationally implemented SLS in partnership with Doordarshan. Donors have included:\n\nPlanetRead has been featured by \"The Economist\", \"The Boston Globe\", \"The Huffington Post\", The World Bank, and \"Extreme Tech\". Former U.S. President Bill Clinton also spoke about the importance PlanetRead and Same Language Subtitling.\n\nPlanetRead has conducted many studies demonstrating the positive impact of Same Language Subtitling. Their most recent study was in August 2015.\n\nPlanetRead also has all their show times on their website.\n\n"}
{"id": "14202291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14202291", "title": "Post-graduate diploma in management studies (UK)", "text": "Post-graduate diploma in management studies (UK)\n\nThe post-graduate diploma in management studies, post-nominal letters DMS, is a university management qualification in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe post-graduate qualification was originally accredited by the DMS Committee of the DES. It originally required either one year full-time or 3 years part-time study, and was arranged in two discrete sections: Part A and Part B. It was compulsory to pass the Part A examinations and assessment first before being allowed to take Part B. Part B consisted of the final examinations and a project dissertation. Overall the marks achieved in coursework, examinations and the final dissertation had to exceed a weighted threshold for the candidate to pass and be awarded a DMS. It was thus quite an intensive course with a large workload. If a candidate achieved 90% or above, they were awarded a Distinction.\n\nNormally a bachelor's degree or extensive managerial experience and/or other professional qualifications. Originally there was also a lower age limit for entry of 35 years old, but this requirement was subsequently dropped as managers above that age found that the qualification had no value in achieving employment or promotion above 35.\n\nInitially in the UK the qualification was accredited by the DMS committee of the DES, and later by the Council for National Academic Awards (CNAA). It was originally accepted by the BIM as its core qualification for admission as a full member. The BIM subsequently was renamed to the Institute of Management when combining with the Institute of Industrial Managers, and now has again been renamed to become the Chartered Management Institute.\n\nThe assessment for the few DMS courses which are still run in the UK is now almost without any formal examinations being required to be passed. It is thus subjectively awarded on the basis of course performance only, according to the opinion of the academic staff responsible.\n\nIt has been argued by some that the move away from mainly or wholly exam assessed courses has lessened the 'value of the qualification' however the change from exams to coursework, projects and assignments is fairly in keeping with most postgraduate UK qualifications, although some exams are normally required.\n\nThe DMS is accepted by the CMI as part of the required qualification for chartered manager.\n\n"}
{"id": "2691734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2691734", "title": "Professional Acknowledgment for Continuing Education", "text": "Professional Acknowledgment for Continuing Education\n\nProfessional Acknowledgment for Continuing Education credits, or PACE credits, are a type of continuing education credit sponsored by the American Society for Clinical Laboratory Science (ASCLS). PACE credits fulfill continuing education requirements for various state and regional laboratory regulation boards. Laboratorians may earn PACE credits by attending seminars, completing mail-away courses, or taking CD-ROM or web-based courses.\n\nP.A.C.E. providers\n"}
{"id": "3033099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3033099", "title": "Project Hope", "text": "Project Hope\n\nProject Hope (希望工程) is a Chinese public service project organized by the China Youth Development Foundation (CYDF) and the Communist Youth League (CYL) Central Committee. Started on October 30, 1989, it aims to bring schools into poverty-stricken rural areas of China, to help children whose families are too poor to afford it to complete elementary school education. Through Project Hope, the CYDF has also sought to improve educational facilities and improve teaching quality in poorer regions.\n\nBy the end of 2004, Project Hope has\n\nSome 80 percent of the Hope Project primary schools and students aided by the project are located in China's middle and western regions, which are less developed. (Liu, 2004)\n\nAccording to a report by National Research Center for Science and Technology for Development (Xu, 1999), 93.9 percent of residents in 29 provincial capital cities aged above 16 have heard of Project Hope, and 63.5 percent have contributed to it in various ways. The report drew the conclusion that Project Hope has become the largest and most influential non-governmental welfare project in China.\n\nIn January 1994, the Hong Kong weekly Next Magazine reported that Project Hope could not account for HK$70 million in donations, implying the donations from the people of Hong Kong to help the Chinese children have been misdirected to the pockets of certain people. The affected party filed a libel lawsuit that ran for six years, resulting in Next Weekly paying HK$3.5 million in damages as well as court fees.\nIn 2002, Project Hope was reportedly involved with embezzlement of donations. National Audit Office confirmed that in 2002 it audited financial situations of Project Hope but the report was never publicised. Then head of the project Xu Yongguang later went on as vice director of China Charity Federation.\n\nIn 2011 The Daily Telegraph reported that Project Hope accepts sponsorship from China Tobacco and allows schools to be named after cigarette brands, carry prominent pro-tobacco advertising, vend cigarette-shaped candy and sell individually-wrapped cigarettes outside school gates, in an attempt to create new smoking addicts to replace those dying of smoking-related diseases, without parents being aware of the dangers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52900306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52900306", "title": "Punjab Examination Commission", "text": "Punjab Examination Commission\n\nThe Punjab Examination Commission (PEC) is an examination board to examine the students of class 5 and 8 in the Punjab. It is an autonomous body of School education department (Punjab, Pakistan). Started in 2006, it took its first class 5 exam at the same year.\n\n"}
{"id": "50594027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50594027", "title": "Reason Rally", "text": "Reason Rally\n\nThe first Reason Rally was a public gathering for secularism and religious skepticism held on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. on March 24, 2012. The rally was sponsored by major atheistic and secular organizations of the United States and was regarded as a \"Woodstock for atheists and skeptics\". A second Reason Rally was held on June 4, 2016 at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C..\n\nSpeakers and performers at the first rally included biologist Richard Dawkins, physicist Lawrence M. Krauss, musician Tim Minchin, \"MythBusters\" co-host Adam Savage, actor-comedian Eddie Izzard, Paul Provenza, PZ Myers, Jessica Ahlquist, Dan Barker, and magician James Randi, among others. The punk rock band Bad Religion performed and other notables (Rep. Pete Stark, Sen. Tom Harkin, comedian Bill Maher, magician Penn Jillette) addressed the crowd by video link. Participants recited the Pledge of Allegiance, deliberately omitting the phrase \"under God\", which was added by the U.S. Congress in 1954. Veterans of the U.S. Armed Forces were represented, and a retired Army colonel, Kirk Lamb, led veterans in an affirmation of their secular military oaths. Speakers urged those assembled to contact local and national representatives and ask them to support church-state separation, science education, marriage equality for gays and lesbians, and ending government support of faith-based organizations, among other causes.\n\nAccording to the official website of the first rally, the aim of the Reason Rally was to \"unify, energize, and embolden secular people nationwide, while dispelling the negative opinions held by so much of American society.\" The website had predicted it would be \"the largest secular event in world history.\" \"The Atlantic\" said 20,000 people were in attendance. \"Religion News Service\" said 8,000–10,000. The documentary \"The Unbelievers\" says that over 30,000 people attended the rally. There are no official crowd estimates of events on the Mall.\n\nThe second rally, the Reason Rally for 2016, was billed as \"a celebration of fact-driven public policy, the value of critical thinking, and the voting power of secular Americans\". The weekend of the Rally included advocacy events and conference sessions.\n\nAccording to the first rally's official website, the event had three main goals: \n\nOrganizers said the aim of the rally was twofold: to unite individuals with similar beliefs and to show the American public that the number of people who don’t believe in God is large and growing. “We have the numbers to be taken seriously,” said Paul Fidalgo, spokesman for the Center for Inquiry, which promotes the scientific method and reasoning and was one of the organizations sponsoring the rally. “We’re not just a tiny fringe group.”\n\nAccording to rally spokesman Jesse Galef, diversity with the attendees was a focus this year, he stated 'We can't succeed if we are only coming from one demographic'\". Comparing the 2012 rally to the 2002 Godless rally which was mainly over-40 white men, the attendees were \"largely under the age of 30, at least half female and included many people of color\".\n\nSpeaking to NPR prior to the rally, American Atheist president David Silverman stated that this is a coming-of-age event for atheists, \"We'll look back at the Reason Rally as one of the game-changing events when people started to look at atheism and look at atheists in a different light\".\n\nWith goals of bringing unity, energy, and visibility to the secular demographic, the rally can be seen as a manifestation of the secular movement that emerged in America and elsewhere in the first decade of the twenty-first century. Writing for \"The Guardian\" Sarah Posner states that the Reason Rally was modeled on the LGBT movement, encouraging people to 'come out' about their non-belief and working to humanize atheism by getting \"people to personalize someone they'd always thought of as an 'other.'\" Once people realize that their neighbor, co-worker or family member is an atheist it goes a long way towards acceptance. Politics played a large part of the Rally according to Posner; considering that there is only one openly atheist American Congressperson, there is a lot of work to still be done.\n\n\n\nIn the \"Huffington Post\", Staks Rosch praised the rally. He stated that atheists \"face a great deal of discrimination and fear of discrimination for being outspoken\" and that many \"fear having their families disown them, losing their jobs, or simply being harassed by the religious.\"\n\nDavid Niose, the president of the American Humanist Association stated that \"The secular demographic does not claim to have a monopoly on rationality, but it does feel that it has something to offer. By rallying in Washington, seculars are not whining about some imagined victimization, but rather they are exercising a voice that has been silenced for too long.\"\n\nNate Phelps, an atheist and estranged son of Fred Phelps, the founder of the fringe group, Westboro Baptist Church, supported the Reason Rally and was among the event's speakers.\n\nThe Reason Rally elicited criticism for the anti-theist rhetoric and tone that some speakers employed, since its purpose is to reject religion and superstitions, in favor of employing reason and promoting a secular lifestyle. Editorial writers including Nathalie Rothschild, and Tom Gilson and representatives of various religious communities such as Rabbi Brad Hirschfield of the National Jewish Center for Learning and Leadership and William Anthony Donohue of the Catholic League all voiced disapproval.\n\n\nThe second quadrennial Reason Rally was held on June 4, 2016 at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C..\n\nThe Reason Rally for 2016 was billed as \"a celebration of fact-driven public policy, the value of critical thinking, and the voting power of secular Americans\". The weekend of the Rally included advocacy events and conference sessions.\n\nEvent organizers were targeting an attendance of 30,000, but crowds proved much smaller; sources disagree on the exact attendance..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16339697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16339697", "title": "Romanian Baccalaureate", "text": "Romanian Baccalaureate\n\nThe Bacalaureat (or \"bac\" for short) is an exam held in Romania and Moldova when one graduates high school ().\n\nUnlike the French Baccalaureate, the Romanian one has a single degree. The subjects (except subject A) depend on the profile studied (): mathematics and computer science (), philology (), natural sciences (), social sciences (), or various other vocational tracks (), and the candidate's choice.\n\nThe Hungarian minority living in Romania and taking baccalaureate examination translate \"Bacalaureat\" into \"Érettségi\", which means maturity, like the Spanish Matura. \"Diploma de Bacalaureat\" is translated into \"Érettségi Diploma\".\n\nThe marking scale is between 1 and 10. In order to pass, students must obtain at least 5.00 in every subject with a minimum of 6.00 overall.\n\nMoldavian Bacalaureat consists of four exams. Pupils from schools with a language of instruction other than Romanian must take one supplementary exam in their native language and literature.\n\nExams usually take place in June. All of them are written and each is graded separately.\n\nStudents must also choose one more subject taught in school. The majority take Geography or Chemistry.\n\nThe baccalaureate has up to 5 modules, each one graded separately. Module E, the written examination, is the one considered for admission to higher education.\n\nA, B and D are marked with: Beginner, Average, Advanced and Experienced.\n\nEach exam takes three hours.\n\n"}
{"id": "2826173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2826173", "title": "Social education in Japan", "text": "Social education in Japan\n\nSocial education (\"shakaikyôiku\" 社会教育) is the Japanese word for nondegree-oriented education. \n\nModern Japan is unquestionably a society that values education highly (\"see\" Education in Japan). Diverse institutions, such as the miscellaneous schools, provide social education services. Large newspaper companies and local governments sponsor cultural centers that offer ongoing programs of informal education, and department stores organize curricula covering everything from cooking classes to music, English conversation (eikaiwa), and Japanese poetry.\n\n\"Lifelong learning,\" another term for social education, was also a key phrase in the education reforms of the late 1980s. The responsibility for social education is shared by all levels of government, but especially by local government. Local governments also are largely responsible for such public facilities as libraries and museums--basic resources in social education. The ministry of education is interested in increasing the use of public school facilities for lifelong learning activities, increasing the number of social education facilities, training staff, and disseminating information about lifelong learning opportunities.\n\nThe Japanese are voracious readers. Popular bookstores are full from the moment they open their doors each day with readers seeking books from a staggering range of foreign as well as Japanese titles. The top four national newspapers (Asahi Shimbun, Mainichi Shimbun, Yomiuri Shimbun, Nihon Keizai Shimbun) alone have a combined daily circulation (with two editions each day) of more than 35 million, and there are four daily English-language papers as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "46190225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46190225", "title": "Tama Hochbaum", "text": "Tama Hochbaum\n\nTama Hochbaum (born 1953) is an artist and photographer living in Chapel Hill, North Carolina.\n\nHochbaum was born in New York City, and received her BA from Brandeis University in Fine Arts. Upon graduation, she was awarded a Thomas J. Watson Foundation Fellowship to study printmaking at Atelier 17 in Paris. She later received a MFA in painting from Queens College in NYC in 1981. \n\nShe worked as a painter in Newton, Massachusetts for 20 years. In 1991, during a four-month stay in Italy, an old interest in photography that had begun during her time in Paris re-emerged. In 1996, she and her family moved to North Carolina, where she currently lives.\n\nHer recent work consists of black and white street portraits, grids created by combining like photographic elements, and a series on the Silver Screen. In this series, Hochbaum takes screenshots of classic movies broadcast on TV, warping images of famous Hollywood starlets (Audrey Hepburn, Greta Garbo and Lillian Gish among them) before printing the image on aluminum panels. Along with these series, she has created a number of slide shows to music; each contain hundreds of her images. Two of these pieces were commissioned by the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. One, \"Graffito\", a collaboration with her husband the composer Allen Anderson, was screened in Memorial Hall in February 2011 as part of the North Carolina Digital Arts Festival. Another, \"return:radius\", was screened at the FedEx Global Education Center as part of the Water of Life Festival in the Spring of 2013.\n\nRecent solo exhibitions include:\n\nRecent group exhibitions include:\n\nHochbaum's work is held in the following public collections:\n\n"}
{"id": "15255475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15255475", "title": "Times Higher Education", "text": "Times Higher Education\n\nTimes Higher Education (THE), formerly The Times Higher Education Supplement (THES), is a weekly magazine based in London, reporting specifically on news and issues related to higher education. It is the United Kingdom's leading publication in its field.\n\nFrom its first issue, in 1971, until 2008, \"The Times Higher Education Supplement\" (\"THES\") was published in newspaper format and was born out of, and affiliated with, \"The Times\" newspaper. On 10 January 2008, it was relaunched as a magazine. It is published by TES Global, which until October 2005 was a division of Rupert Murdoch's News International. The magazine is edited by John Gill. Phil Baty is the editor at large, and is responsible for international coverage. He is also the editor of the magazine's World University Rankings.\n\nThe magazine features a fictional satirical column written by Laurie Taylor, the \"Poppletonian\", which reflects on life at the fictional Poppleton University.\n\nIn 2011 \"Times Higher Education\" was awarded the titles of \"Weekly Business Magazine of the Year\" and \"Media Business Brand of the Year\" by the Professional Publishers Association.\n\n\"Times Higher Education\" became known for publishing the annual \"Times Higher Education–QS World University Rankings\", which first appeared in November 2004. On 30 October 2009 \"Times Higher Education\" broke with QS, then its partner in compiling the Rankings, and signed an agreement with Thomson Reuters to provide the data instead. The magazine developed a new methodology in consultation with its readers and its editorial board. Thomson Reuters collects and analyses the data used to produce the rankings on behalf of \"Times Higher Education\". The results have been published annually since autumn 2010. QS, which collected and analysed the rankings data from 2004 to 2009, no longer has any involvement with \"Times Higher Education\"'s World University Rankings.\n\nThe magazine runs two sets of awards annually.\n\nThe first is the \"\"Times Higher Education\" Awards\". The 2011 awards took place on 24 November at the Grosvenor House Hotel on London's Park Lane and received a record number of entries across the 18 categories. Seventeen universities were given awards in different categories, with the University of Sheffield being \"University of the Year\". Tessa Blackstone was given the \"Lord Dearing Lifetime Achievement Award\".\n\nThe University of Strathclyde was named as the University of the Year at the 2012 awards which took place on 29 November 2012 at the Grosvenor House Hotel on London's Park Lane. University of Strathclyde Principal and Vice-Chancellor Professor Sir Jim McDonald received the award at the ceremony.\n\nThe \"\"Times Higher Education\" Leadership and Management Awards\" (Thelmas) were launched in 2009. The Thelmas were set up to recognise the impact that administrative staff have on the success of higher education institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "299965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299965", "title": "Tutor", "text": "Tutor\n\nA tutor is a person who provides assistance or tutelage to one or more people on certain subject areas or skills. The tutor spends a few hours on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis to transfer their expertise on the topic or skill to the student. Tutoring can take place in different settings, such as a classroom, a formal tutoring center, or the home of the tutor/learner. As a teaching-learning method, tutoring is characterized by how it differs from formal teaching methods on the basis of the (in)formality of the setting as well as the flexibility in pedagogical methods in terms of duration, pace of teaching, evaluation and tutor-tutee rapport.\n\nTutoring began as an informal and unstructured method of educational assistance, dating back to periods in Ancient Greece. Tutors operated on an ad-hoc or impromptu basis in varied and unfixed settings wherein the main goal of the tutor was to impart knowledge to the learner in order to help the latter gain proficiency in the subject area. Methods of tutoring only began to become more structured after the 20th century through focus and specialisation in the training of tutors, application of tutoring, and evaluation of tutors. From the 20th century onwards, with the rapid spread of mainstream education, the demand for tutoring has also increased as a way to supplement formal education.\n\nIn British and Irish secondary schools, \"form tutors\" are given the responsibilities of a form or class of students in a particular year group (up to 30 students). They usually work in year teams headed by a year leader, year head, or guidance teacher.\n\nForm tutors will provide parents with most of the information about their child's progress and any problems they might be experiencing. Ordinarily, the form tutor is the person who contacts a parent if there is a problem at school; however, the year leader or guidance teacher may contact the parents, since the form tutor has full-time responsibility as a specialist subject teacher.\n\nA 2012 study by the Asian Development Bank and the Comparative Education Research Centre at the University of Hong Kong pointed out that private tutoring can dominate the lives of young people and their families, maintain and exacerbate social inequalities, divert needed household income into an unregulated industry, and create inefficiencies in education systems. It can also undermine official statements about fee-free education and create threats to social cohesion.\n\nIn South Korea, nearly 90% of elementary students receive some sort of shadow education. In Hong Kong, about 85% of senior secondary students do so. 60% of primary students in West Bengal, India, and 60% of secondary students in Kazakhstan receive private tutoring.\n\nDemand for tutoring in Asia is exploding; by comparison globally, shadow education is most extensive in Asia. This is partly due to the stratification of education systems, cultural factors, perceptions of shortcomings in regular school systems, and the combination of growing wealth and smaller family sizes. Therefore, the education sector has become a profitable industry which businesses have created different kinds of products and advertisement such us \"the king/queen of tutorial\", a usual advertisement tactic of Hong Kong tutorial centers that has spread to South Korea, Thailand, Sri Lanka and India where tutors achieve \"celebrity-like status\". In some cases, successful Southeast Asian tutors will even embrace the title of \"tutor\". Online private tutor matching platform and online learning platform offering online learning materials are other creations.\n\nIn Cambodia, most tutoring is provided by teachers, whereas in Hong Kong, it is provided by individuals, small companies or large companies. In Mongolia, most tutoring is labor-intensive, while entrepreneurs in South Korea make use of computers and other forms of technology.\n\nA 2012 study by the Asian Development Bank and the Comparative Education Research Centre at the University of Hong Kong recommended policymakers across the region take a closer look at how ‘shadow education’ affects family budgets, children's time, and national education systems. It suggested that in order to reduce the need for private lessons, improvements in mainstream schools should be made. Regulations are also needed to protect consumers.\n\nSome studies have estimated costs associated with \"shadow education\". In Pakistan, expenditures on tutoring per child averaged $3.40 a month in 2011. In India, average spending was lower, but still equated to about $2 per month.\n\nIn Georgia, household expenditures for private tutoring at the secondary school level was $48 million in 2011. In Hong Kong, the business of providing private tutoring to secondary schools reached $255 million in 2011.\n\nIn India, a 2008 survey estimated the size of the private tutoring sector to be $6.4 billion. In Japan, families spent $12 billion in 2010 on private tutoring.\n\nIn the Republic of Korea, where the government has attempted to cool down the private tutoring market, shadow education costs have continually grown, reaching a staggering $17.3 billion in 2010. Household expenditures on private tutoring are equivalent to about 80% of government expenditures on public education for primary and secondary students.\n\nIn the United States, the tutoring market is fragmented. Some online tutoring marketplaces, however, have managed to aggregate a large number of private tutors on their platform and also tutoring data. For example, one such site has over 34,000 registered tutors in California and made public their tutoring hourly rate data.\n\nIn many countries, individuals can become tutors without training. In some countries, including Cambodia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Lao PDR, and Tajikistan, the pattern of classroom teachers supplementing their incomes by tutoring students after school hours is more a necessity than a choice, as many teachers’ salaries hover close to the poverty line.\n\nIn the Republic of Korea, the number of private tutors expanded roughly 7.1% annually on average from 2001 to 2006, and by 2009 the sector was the largest employer of graduates from the humanities and social sciences.\n\nPrivate tutoring is not always effective in raising academic achievement; and in some schools students commonly skip classes or sleep through lessons because they are tired after excessive external study. This means that the shadow system can make regular schooling less efficient.\n\nTeachers who spend more time focusing on private lessons than regular classes can cause greater inefficiencies in the mainstream school system. Situations in which teachers provide extra private lessons for pupils for whom they are already responsible in the public system can lead to corruption, particularly when teachers deliberately teach less in their regular classes in order to promote the market for private lessons.\n\nWhen private tutoring is provided by well trained tutor however the effects can be dramatic, with pupils improving performance by two standard deviations. See also Bloom's 2 Sigma Problem.\n\nThere can be an existing overlap between different types of tutoring with respect to the setting or location of tutoring, the size of tutor-learner pairings/groups, and the method of tutoring provided, for example, one-on-one peer tutoring can take place through online tutoring. Tutoring is typically private since it is exists independent of the system of public and private education, that is, one can be enrolled in public/private schooling and attend private tutoring services.\n\nAcademic coaching is a type of mentoring applied to academics. Coaching involves a collaborative approach. Coaches try to help students learn how they best learn and how to operate in an academic environment. Tutors help students learn the material in individual courses while coaches help students learn how to be successful in school. In college, that includes such topics as: study skills, time management, stress management, effective reading, note-taking, test-taking, and understanding how to use a syllabus. Academic coaches meet with the student regularly throughout the semester. Coaches work with students in all kinds of situations, not just those who are struggling academically. Academic coaching is also serves to help students prepare for entrance exams to gain entry to schools or universities, and it is a particularly popular in Asia. For example, in India, a majority of students, be it of any class or stream, visit a coaching center or a \"study circle.\"\n\nIn-home tutoring is a form of tutoring that occurs in the home. Most often the tutoring relates to an academic subject or test preparation. This is in contrast to tutoring centers or tutoring provided through after-school programs. The service most often involves one-on-one attention provided to the pupil. Due to the informal and private nature of in-home tutoring, there is limited substantial or conclusive information on in-home tutoring.\n\nOnline tutoring is another way for a student to receive academic help, either scheduled or on-demand. Sessions are done through an application where a student and tutor can communicate. Common tools include chat, whiteboard, web conferencing, teleconferencing, online videos and other specialized applets which make it easier to convey information back and forth. Online tutoring has relatively recently emerged as a mechanism to provide tutoring services in contrast to more traditional in-person teaching. One of the potential drawbacks of online tutoring stems from the influx or sensory overload of information from different materials. \"For example, mate- rial presented in multiple modalities run the risk of interrupting the learner from a coherent learn- ing experience, of imposing a “split attention” effect (the mind cannot concentrate on two things simultaneously), or of overloading the learner's limited supply of cognitive resources.\"\n\nPeer tutoring refers to the method of tutoring that involves members of the same peer group teaching or tutoring one another. The characteristics of a peer tutoring group/pairing vary across age, socioeconomic class, gender, ethnicity. It has been defined as \"a class of practices and strategies that employs peers as one-on-one teachers to provide individualized instruction, practice, repetition, and clarification of concepts\"\n\nStudies have found that peer tutoring provides academic benefits for learners across the subject areas of \"reading, mathematics, science, and social studies\" Peer tutoring has also been found to be an effective teaching method in enhancing the reading comprehension skills of students, especially that of students with a low academic performance at the secondary level in schools. Additionally, peer tutoring has been proven especially useful for those with learning disabilities at the elementary level, while there is mixed evidence showing the effectiveness of peer tutoring for those at the secondary level.\n\nAlthough certain types of tutoring arrangements can require a salary for the tutor, typically tutoring is free of cost and thus financially affordable for learners. The cost-effectiveness of tutoring can prove to be especially beneficial for learners from low-income backgrounds or resource-strapped regions. In contrast, paid tutoring arrangements can create or further highlight socioeconomic disparities between low-income, middle-income and high-income populations. A study found that access to private tutoring was less financially affordable for low-income families, who thus benefited less from private tutoring as compared to high-income populations, who had the resources to profit from private tutoring.\n\nTutoring has also emerged as a supplement to public and private schooling in many countries. The supplementary nature of tutoring is a feature in the domain of what some scholars have termed \"shadow education\". Shadow education has been defined as \"a set of educational activities that occur out side formal schooling and are designed to enhance the student's formal school career.\" The term \"shadow\" has four components to it: firstly, the existence of and need for tutoring is produced by the existence of the formal education system; secondly, the formal education system is the mainstream system and thus tutoring is its shadow; thirdly, the focus remains on mainstream education in schools; fourthly, tutoring is largely informal and unstructured as compared to formal or mainstream education. As a consequence of the popularity of shadow education, private tutoring can sometimes overshadow mainstream education with more priority given to enrolling in private tutoring centers. Mark Bray claims that \"Especially near the time of major external examinations, schools in some countries may be perceived by pupils to be less able to cater for their specific needs.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "10465237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10465237", "title": "Wilbur Olin Atwater", "text": "Wilbur Olin Atwater\n\nWilbur Olin Atwater (May 3, 1844 – September 22, 1907) was an American chemist known for his studies of human nutrition and metabolism. He is credited with developing the Atwater system, laying the groundwork, in the 19th century, for the science of nutrition in the United States and inspiring modern Olympic nutrition.\n\nAtwater was born in Johnsburg, New York and grew up in the New England area. He opted not to fight in the American Civil War and instead to pursue an undergraduate degree at Wesleyan University in Connecticut. In 1868, Atwater's interest in civil engineering and agricultural chemistry led him to enroll in Yale University's Sheffield Scientific School, where he analyzed agricultural fertilizers for specific mineral content. Atwater received his doctorate in 1869 in agricultural chemistry, his thesis being entitled \"The Proximate Composition of Several Types of American Maize.\" Afterwards, he spent two years in Leipzig and Berlin, where he visited agricultural experiment stations. Atwater also spent time traveling throughout Scotland, Rome, and Naples, where he reported his findings in local newspapers distributed where he lived back in the United States. Atwater later returned to the United States to teach at East Tennessee University and later Wesleyan as its first Professor of Chemistry.\n\nHis granddaughter Catherine Merriam Atwater married economist John Kenneth Galbraith.\n\nAtwater is best known for his studies of human nutrition. He invented and used the respiration calorimeter, with the help of fellow Wesleyan scientists Edward Bennett Rosa and Francis Gano Benedict, to measure precisely the energy provided by food and created a system to measure that energy in units, known as food calories as developed in the Atwater system. \"Maintained in the basement of Judd Hall [at Wesleyan], the 4- by 8-foot chamber housed a machine that measured human oxygen intake and carbon dioxide output.\"\n\nWith annual costs exceeding $10 thousand, the respiration calorimeter was considered a dream project for the 19th century. Atwater began the first of about 500 experiments in 1896. In fact, \"he made history by establishing America’s first state agricultural experiment station at [Wesleyan].\" He studied respiration and metabolism in animals and in humans. The calorimeter aided studies in food analysis, dietary evolution, work energy consumption, and digestible foods. It measured the human metabolism balance by analyzing the heat produced and metabolic rate by a person performing certain physical activities. With this machine, the dynamics of metabolism could be quantified and the balance between food intake and energy output could be measured. Atwater applied the first law of thermodynamics to his research: Energy can be transformed (i.e., changed from one form to another), but it can neither be created nor destroyed. Before Atwater's development of the respiration calorimeter, many experiments on calorie intake and expenditure had been conducted on animals. During this period, there was a widely held belief that the first law of thermodynamics applied to animals, but did not apply to humans because they were unique. Atwater demonstrated that whatever amount of consumed energy humans cannot use is left over and stored in the body. His findings thus established that the first law applied to humans as well as animals. Atwater's research and conclusions in this regard changed both how people thought about science and about humans.\n\nThe results from Atwater’s calorimetry study influenced many areas of American life. Most importantly, the calorimeter was a great influence to the growing awareness of the food calorie as a unit of measure both in terms of consumption and metabolism. Atwater reported on the weight of the calorie as a means to measure the efficiency of a diet. He stated different types of food produced different amounts of energy. He stressed the importance of an inexpensive and efficient diet that included more proteins, beans, and vegetables in place of carbohydrates.\n\n\"His careful studies of nutrition and those that followed helped spur federal policies that have done much to alleviate childhood hunger. We see reflections of his influence on the labels of products in our grocery stores, and we’re beginning to see nutritional information on the menus of restaurants. Today’s familiar food pyramid, a quick and easy visual guide to the recommended daily intake of food, is a tribute to Atwater and his successors.\"\n\nAtwater also studied the effect of alcohol on the body. His findings showed humans generated heat from alcohol just as they generated heat from a carbohydrate. At a time when the Scientific Temperance Federation and the Woman's Christian Temperance Union doubted the nutritional value of alcohol, Atwater proved alcohol could be oxidized in the body and used to some extent as fuel for the human motor. Information gained from Atwater’s experiments was used by the liquor trade in the promotion of alcohol. \"[Atwater] was very prominent in the temperance movement, and every year he would lecture the students about temperance and tried to promote [abstention from alcohol],\" ... \"Being a good scientist, he reported the data and was very upset that alcohol companies used his research\" to advertise their products.\n\nAfter completing his study, Atwater concluded that Americans consumed too much fat and sweets and did not exercise enough. His collaborator and successor at Wesleyan, Francis Benedict (1870–1957), continued down Atwater’s path using the respiration calorimeter to further measure metabolism and other bodily processes. Benedict studied the varying metabolism rates of infants born in two hospitals in Massachusetts, athletes, students, vegetarians, Mayans living in the Yucatán, and normal adults. He even developed a calorimeter large enough to hold twelve girl scouts for an extended period of time. His biggest improvement was the invention of portable field respiration calorimeters. In 1919, Francis Benedict published a metabolic standards report with extensive tables based on age, sex, height, and weight.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16245764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16245764", "title": "Zinch", "text": "Zinch\n\nZinch was a company that helped students find scholarships and engage in college networking and recruiting. The company's website enabled students to create a profile similar to a college application, which could be browsed by colleges in which they were interested, providing a forum for a connection between college and Zinch user. Colleges also had the ability to search through these profiles in order to contact interested students.\n\nZinch started out as a research project at Princeton University in June 2006 by a group of students. The company was founded by Mick Hagen, Brad Hagen, and Sid Krommenhoek and launched to the public in March 2007. The company was later run by Anne Dwane, who previously founded and ran Military.com.\n\nIn September 2011, Chegg agreed to acquire Zinch. as part of its expanding digital student hub. Eventually, the zinch web address began to redirect to Chegg's website, retiring the Zinch brand.\n\n"}
