{"id": "10032476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10032476", "title": "1995 Okinawa rape incident", "text": "1995 Okinawa rape incident\n\nThe 1995 Okinawa rape incident took place on September 4, 1995, when three U.S. servicemen – U.S. Navy Seaman Marcus Gill and U.S. Marines Rodrico Harp and Kendrick Ledet, who were all serving at Camp Hansen on Okinawa – rented a van and kidnapped a 12-year-old Japanese girl. They beat her, duct-taped her eyes and mouth shut, and bound her hands. Gill and Harp then raped her, while Ledet claimed he only pretended to do so out of fear of Gill. The incident led to further debate over the continued presence of U.S. forces in Japan. The offenders were tried and convicted in Japanese court by Japanese law, in accordance with the U.S.–Japan Status of Forces Agreement. The families of the defendants initially claimed that Japanese officials had racially discriminated against the men because they were all black and coerced confessions from them, but later retracted the claims.\n\nAfter the incident became known, public outrage erupted, especially over the U.S.–Japan Status of Forces Agreement, which gives the U.S. service members a certain measure of extraterritoriality (exemption from jurisdiction of local law) only as it relates to the place the suspects were detained. While the crime was committed away from a U.S. military base, the U.S. initially took the men into custody, on September 6. Although false rumors spread that the suspects were free to roam the base and had been seen eating hamburgers, the suspects were in fact held in a military brig until the Japanese officials charged them with the crime. Despite an immediate request by Japanese law enforcement for custody and eventual trial, the men were only handed over on September 29, after the Japanese had formally indicted them. This delay followed the Status of Forces agreement, which states, \"The custody of an accused member of the United States armed forces or the civilian component over whom Japan is to exercise jurisdiction shall, if he is in the hands of the United States, remain with the United States until he is charged.\" Although the military drove the suspects to police headquarters in Naha for daily interrogations, the SOFA provision and the delay in handing over the suspects increased the outrage over the attack, causing the largest anti-American demonstrations in Okinawa since the treaty was signed in 1960.\n\nAs a consequence of the protests regarding jurisdiction, the U.S. made concessions and agreed to consider handing suspects over to the Japanese before an indictment if the severity of the alleged crime warranted it. This agreement was hashed out at an emergency meeting between U.S. President Bill Clinton and Japanese Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto. The people of Okinawa also placed a full-page ad in \"The New York Times\" decrying the rape and other aspects of the U.S. bases in Okinawa. In 1996, the United States and Japan signed a bilateral agreement to reduce the amount of land on Okinawa covered by U.S. bases by 21 percent—the U.S. military had previously occupied 19 percent of the island.\n\nU.S. Navy Admiral Richard C. Macke was the commander of United States Pacific Command at the time of the attack. At a press conference in November 1995, Macke said of the men's actions: \"I think it was absolutely stupid. I have said several times: for the price they paid to rent the car [used in the crime], they could have had a girl <nowiki>[</nowiki>prostitute<nowiki>]</nowiki>.\" These remarks were condemned as insensitive, and Macke was removed from his post and forced into early retirement. He was also reduced in rank to rear admiral (two-star) from full admiral (four-star), which reduced his pension from US$7,384/month to US$5,903/month.\n\nGill pleaded guilty to the rape, and the other two men pleaded guilty to conspiracy. The trial concluded in March 1996.\n\nProsecutors had asked for the maximum sentences for the men, 10 years each. The judge sentenced Gill and Harp to seven years' imprisonment; Ledet received six and a half years. Their families also paid \"reparation money\" to the family of the victim, a common practice in Japan.\n\nThe three men served prison terms in Japanese prisons and were released in 2003 and then given other than honorable discharge from the military. After release, Rodrico Harp decried prison conditions in Japan and said that the electronics assembly prison labor he was forced to do amounted to slave labor.\n\nLedet, who had claimed he did not rape the girl, died in 2006 in an apparent murder–suicide in the United States. He was found in the third-floor apartment of Lauren Cooper, a junior Kennesaw State University student and acquaintance whom he had apparently raped and then murdered, by strangulation. He then took his own life by using a knife to slice open his veins at the elbows.\n\nIn Japan, the crime continues to be well known and to have political implications. In December 2011 then-Defense Minister Yasuo Ichikawa was the subject of a censure motion from the opposition Liberal Democratic Party for failing to know the details of the rape. This followed his subordinate Satoshi Tanaka speaking with reporters in a bar and using euphemisms for rape to discuss moving the US Futenma airbase. Tanaka was terminated as director of the Okinawa Defense Bureau, and in the cabinet reshuffle of January 13, 2012, Ichikawa was replaced by Naoki Tanaka.\n\n"}
{"id": "10937526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10937526", "title": "2007 Peru Census", "text": "2007 Peru Census\n\nThe 2007 Peru Census was a detailed enumeration of the Peruvian population. It was conducted by the Instituto Nacional de Estadística e Informática on Sunday, October 21, 2007. Its full name in Spanish is XI Censo de Población y VI de Vivienda (Eleventh Population and Sixth Household Census). The previous census performed in Peru was the 2005 Census, the following census was the 2017 Peru Census.\n\n"}
{"id": "34242955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34242955", "title": "A History of Warfare", "text": "A History of Warfare\n\nA History of Warfare is a book by military historian John Keegan, which was published in 1993 by Random House.\n\nKeegan discusses early warfare, the proliferation of Bronze Age warfare and then Iron Age warfare (Greek hoplites and phalanxes, Roman legions and maniples). He also talks about the conquests of the \"horse peoples\", first under the Assyrians, then the Achaemenids, Parthians and Sassanids; then in the 7th century the Arabs conquer a lot of territory, followed by the Mongols under Genghis Khan and finally the last of the horse peoples under a Mongol named Tamerlane, who unleashes massive carnage and destruction.\n\nThe rise of medieval Europe causes the raising of money for castles, with infantry being paid to dig under castles for their destruction. Western Europe perfects castles that are impregnable. At the same time, cavalry is gradually eliminated from the battlefield; matchlocks, flintlocks and eventually Smith & Wesson revolvers become dominant (they help Japan win the Russo-Japanese War).\n\nIn World War I, mustard gas, grenades, artillery and guns kill a massive number of soldiers that are buried in muddy graveyards on the Western Front. In World War II, millions die on the Eastern Front because of Adolf Hitler's theories of living space (Lebensraum)\n\nKeegan takes issue with Carl von Clausewitz's idea that war is an extension of politics, implying that war is carried on in a rational way under the conscious control of politicians. Rather he sees the existence of armies and warriors as distorting the nature of politics and of culture, sometimes becoming the dominant cultural form and that war itself is ultimately a disastrous and irrational outcome of a failure of politics and diplomacy. His book is less concerned with the technology and lists of battles as underlying motivations and social anthropology.\n\nKeegan dedicates his book to an ancestor, a Lieutenant Bridgman in the Régiment de Clare, one of the Wild Geese mercenaries of the French Army, who was killed at the Battle of Lauffeld in 1747.\n\nIn a review in \"Foreign Affairs\", Eliot A. Cohen wrote, \"Despite some graceful writing and pointed observations, \"A History of Warfare\" fails to live up to the title's promise or the author's reputation\". Cohen described it as \"a vendetta against a liberal German soldier-theorist of the early nineteenth century [Clausewitz]\".\n\n"}
{"id": "444794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=444794", "title": "Air raid shelter", "text": "Air raid shelter\n\nAir raid shelters, also known as bomb shelters, are structures for the protection of non-combatants as well as combatants against enemy attacks from the air. They are similar to bunkers in many regards, although they are not designed to defend against ground attack (but many have been successfully used as defensive structures in such situations).\n\nPrior to World War II, in May 1924, an Air Raid Precautions Committee was set up in the United Kingdom. For years, little progress was made with shelters because of the apparently irreconcilable conflict between the need to send the public underground for shelter and the need to keep them above ground for protection against gas attacks. In February 1936 the Home Secretary appointed a technical Committee on Structural Precautions against Air Attack.\n\nBy November 1937, there had only been slow progress, because of a serious lack of data on which to base any design recommendations, and the Committee proposed that the Home Office should have its own department for research into structural precautions, rather than relying on research work done by the Bombing Test Committee to support the development of bomb design and strategy. This proposal was eventually implemented in January 1939.\n\nDuring the Munich crisis, local authorities dug trenches to provide shelter. After the crisis, the British Government decided to make these a permanent feature, with a standard design of precast concrete trench lining. Unfortunately these turned out to perform very poorly. They also decided to issue free to poorer households the Anderson shelter, and to provide steel props to create shelters in suitable basements.\n\nAir raid shelters were built specifically to serve as protection against enemy air raids. However, pre-existing edifices designed for other functions, such as underground stations (tube or subway stations), tunnels, cellars in houses or basements in larger establishments, and railway arches, above ground, were suitable for safeguarding people during air raids. A commonly used home shelter known as the Anderson shelter would be built in a garden and equipped with beds as a refuge from air raids.\n\nCellars have always been much more important in Continental Europe than in the United Kingdom, and especially in Germany almost all houses and apartment blocks have been and still are built with cellars. For this reason, air-raid precautions during World War II in Germany could be much more readily implemented by the authorities than was possible in the UK. All that was necessary was to ascertain that cellars were being prepared to accommodate all the residents of a building; that all the cellar hatch and window protections were in place; that access to the cellars was safe in the event of an air raid; that once inside, the occupants were secure for any incidents other than direct hits during the air raid; and that means of escape in case of a real emergency were easily available.\n\nHowever, the inadequacies of cellars and basements became apparent in the firestorms during the incendiary attacks on the larger German inner cities, especially Hamburg and Dresden. When burning buildings and apartment blocks above them collapsed in the raging winds (which could reach well over 800 °C), the occupants often became trapped in these basement shelters, which had also become overcrowded after the arrival of inhabitants from other buildings rendered unsafe in earlier attacks. Some occupants perished from heat stroke or carbon monoxide poisoning.\n\n\"Hochbunker(s)\", or \"high-rise\" bunkers or (blockhouses), were a peculiarly German type of construction, designed to relieve the pressure German authorities were facing to accommodate additional numbers of the population in high-density housing areas, as well as pedestrians on the streets during air raids. In contrast to other shelters, these buildings were considered completely bomb-proof. They also had the advantage of being built upward, which was much cheaper than downward excavation. There were no equivalents of \"hochbunkers\" in the cities of the Allied countries.\n\n\"Hochbunkers\" usually consisted of large concrete blocks above ground with walls between 1 m and 1.5 m thick and with huge lintels above doorways and openings. They often had a constant interior temperature of 7 to 10 °C, which made them perfectly suitable for laboratories, both during and after the war. They were designated to protect people, administrative centres, important archives, and works of art.\n\nTheir structures took many forms: usually consisting of square blocks, or of low, long rectangular or triangular shapes; straight towers of a square plan rising to great heights, or round tower-like edifices, even pyramidal constructions. Some of the circular towers contained helical floors that gradually curved their way upward within the circular walls. Many of these structures may still be seen to this day. They have been converted into offices, storage space, and some have even been adapted for hotels, hospitals and schools, as well as many other peacetime purposes. In Schöneberg, a block of flats was built over the Pallasstrasse air-raid shelter after World War II. During the Cold War, NATO used the shelter for food storage.\n\nThe cost of demolishing these edifices after the war would have been enormous, as the attempts at breaking up one of the six so-called Flak towers of Vienna proved. The attempted demolition caused no more than a crack in one of the walls of the tower, after which efforts were abandoned. Only the Zoo Tower in Berlin was successfully demolished.\n\nOne particular variant of the Hochbunker was the \"Winkeltürme\", named after its designer, Leo Winkel of Duisburg. Winkel patented his design in 1934, and from 1936 on, Germany built 98 \"Winkeltürme\" of five different types. The towers had a conical shape with walls that curved downward to a reinforced base. The dimensions of the towers varied. Diameters ranged between 8.4 and 10 meters and the height between 20 and 25 meters. The walls of the towers had a minimum thickness for reinforced concrete of 0.8 m and 1.5 m for ordinary concrete. The towers were able to shelter between 164 and 500 people, depending on the type. The intent with the \"Winkeltürme\" and the other \"hochbunkers\" was to protect workers in rail yards and industrial areas. Because of their shape, the towers became known colloquially as \"cigar stubs\" or \"sugar beets\".\n\nThe theory behind the \"Winkeltürme \"was that the curved walls would deflect any bomb hitting the tower, directing it down towards the base. The towers had a small footprint, which was probably a greater protection. A US bomb did hit one tower in Bremen in October 1944; the bomb exploded through the roof, killing five people inside.\n\nCellars in the UK, however, were mainly included only in larger houses, and in houses built up to the period of World War I, after which detached and semi-detached properties were constructed without cellars, usually to avoid the higher building costs entailed. Since house building had increased vastly between the wars, the lack of cellars in more recent housing was to become a major problem in the Air Raid Precautions (ARP) programmes in the UK during World War II.\n\nAlternatives had to be found speedily once it became clear that Germany was contemplating air raids as a means of demoralising the population and disrupting supply lines in the UK. Initial recommendations were that householders should shelter under the stairs. Later, authorities supplied materials to households to construct communal street shelters and Morrison and Anderson shelters.\n\nBasements also became available for the use of air raid shelters. Basements under factory premises, schools, hospitals, department stores and other businesses were utilised. However, these \"ad hoc\" shelters could bring additional dangers, as heavy machinery and materials or water storage facilities above the shelter, and insufficient support structures threatened to cause the collapse of basements.\n\nWhen Wilkinson's Lemonade factory in North Shields received a direct hit on Saturday, 3 May 1941 during a German attack on the north-east coast of England, 107 occupants lost their lives when heavy machinery fell through the ceiling of the basement in which they were sheltering.\n\nRailway arches and subways were also used in the UK for air raid protection at all times during World War II.\n\nRailway arches were deep, curved structures of brick or concrete, set into the vertical sidewalls of railway lines, which had been intended originally for commercial depots, etc. The arches were covered usually with wooden or brick screen- or curtain walls, thus giving a considerable amount of protection against air raids – provided, of course, that railway lines were not the prime target of the attack at the particular time and so being more likely to suffer from direct hits. Each arch could accommodate anything from 60 to 150 or so persons. However, fewer people could find shelter at night as sleeping areas for the occupants took up more of the space available – a limitation applying to any other type of shelter as well. Subways were actual thoroughfares also in the shape of arches, normally allowing passage underneath railway lines.\n\nPrior to the beginning of the war, shelter policy had been determined by Sir John Anderson, then Lord Privy Seal and, on the declaration of war, Home Secretary and Minister of Home Security. Anderson announced the policy to Parliament on 20 April 1939, based on a report from a committee chaired by Lord Hailey. This reaffirmed a policy of dispersal and eschewed the use of deep shelters, including the use of tube stations and underground tunnels as public shelters. Reasons given were the spread of disease due to the lack of toilet facilities at many stations, the inherent danger of people falling onto the lines, and that people sheltering in the stations and tunnels might be tempted to stay in them day and night because they would feel safer there than outside the stations.\n\nNone of these concerns had been borne out by experience during the bombing raids of the First World War, when eighty specially adapted tube stations had been pressed into use, but in a highly controversial decision in January 1924, Anderson, then chairman of the Air Raid Precautions Committee of Imperial Defence and had ruled out the tube station shelter option in any future conflict.\n\nFollowing the intensive bombing of London on 7 September 1940 and the overnight raids of 7/8 September, there was considerable pressure to change the policy but, even following a review on 17 September, the Government stood firm. On 19 September, William Mabane, parliamentary secretary to the Ministry of Home Security, urged the public not to leave their Anderson shelters for public shelters, saying it deprived others of shelter. \"We're going to improve the amenities in existing shelters,\" he promised. \"We're setting about providing better lighting and better accommodation for sleeping and better sanitary arrangements.\" The Ministries of Home Security and Transport jointly issued an \"urgent appeal\", telling the public \"to refrain from using Tube stations as air-raid shelters except in the case of urgent necessity\".\n\nHowever, the Government was then confronted with an episode of mass disobedience. Over the night of 19/20 September, thousands of Londoners were taking matters in their own hands. They had flocked to the Tubes for shelter. At some stations, they began to arrive as early as 4pm, with bedding and bags of food to sustain them for the night. By the time the evening rush hour was in progress, they had already staked their \"pitches\" on the platforms. Police did not intervene. Some station managers, on their own initiatives, provided additional toilet facilities. Transport Minister John Reith, and the chairman of London Transport, Lord Ashfield, inspected Holborn tube station to see conditions for themselves.\n\nThe Government then realised that they could not contain this popular revolt. On 21 September, it abruptly changed policy, removing its objections to the use of tube stations. In what it called part of its \"deep shelter extension policy\", it decided to close the short section of Piccadilly line from Holborn to Aldwych, and convert different sections for specific wartime use, including a public air raid shelter at Aldwych. Floodgates were installed at various points to protect the network should bombs breach the tunnels under the Thames, or large water mains in the vicinity of stations. Seventy-nine stations were fitted with bunks for 22,000 people, supplied with first aid facilities and equipped with chemical toilets. 124 canteens opened in all parts of the tube system. Shelter marshals were appointed, whose function it was to keep order, give first aid and assist in case of the flooding of the tunnels.\n\nBusinesses (for example Plessey Ltd) were allowed to use the Underground stations and unopened tunnels, government offices were installed in others and the anti-aircraft centre for London used a station as its headquarters.\n\nHowever, tube stations and tunnels were still vulnerable to a direct hit and several such incidents did occur:\n\nOn 14 October 1940, a bomb penetrated the road and tunnel at Balham tube station, blew up the water mains and sewage pipes, and killed 66 people.\n\nAt Bank station a direct hit caused a crater of 120 ft by 100 ft on 11 January 1941, the road above the station collapsed and killed 56 occupants.\n\nHowever, the highest death toll was caused during an accident at the unfinished Bethnal Green tube station on 8 March 1943, when 1,500 people entered the station. The crowd suddenly surged forwards on hearing the unfamiliar sound of a new type of anti-aircraft rocket being launched nearby. Someone stumbled on the stairs, and the crowd pushing on, were falling on top of one another, and 173 people were crushed to death in the disaster.\n\nNevertheless, the London Underground system during the war was considered one of the safest means of protecting relatively many people in a high-density area of the capital. An estimated 170,000 people sheltered in the tunnels and stations during World War II. Although not a great number in comparison to the total number of the inhabitants of the capital, it almost certainly saved many lives of the people who probably would have had to find alternative, less secure means of protection.\n\nArtists and photographers such as Henry Moore and Bill Brandt were employed as war artists to document life in London's shelters during the Second World War.\n\nMany other types of tunnels were adapted for shelters to protect the civil population, and the military and administrative establishment in the UK during the war. Some had been built many years before, some had been part of an ancient defence system, and some had belonged to commercial enterprises, such as coalmining.\n\nThe Victoria tunnels at Newcastle upon Tyne, for example, completed as long ago as 1842, and used for transporting coal from the collieries to the river Tyne, had been closed in 1860 and remained so until 1939. 12 m deep in places, the tunnels, stretching in parts beneath the city of Newcastle, were converted to air raid shelters with a capacity for 9,000 people. Furthermore, tunnels linked to landing stages built on the River Irwell in Manchester at the end of the 19th century were also used as air-raid shelters.\n\nThe large medieval labyrinth of tunnels beneath Dover Castle had been built originally as part of the defensive system of the approaches to England, extended over the centuries and further excavated and reinforced during World Wars I and II, until it was capable of accommodating large parts of the secret defence systems protecting the British Isles. On 26 May 1940 it became the headquarters under Vice Admiral Bertram Ramsay of “Operation Dynamo”, from which the rescue and evacuation of up to 338,000 troops from France was directed.\n\nIn Stockport, six miles south of Manchester, four sets of underground air raid shelter tunnels for civilian use were dug into the red sandstone on which the town centre stands. Preparation started in September 1938 and the first set of shelters was opened on 28 October 1939. (Stockport was not bombed until 11 October 1940.) The smallest of the tunnel shelters could accommodate 2,000 people and the largest 3,850 (subsequently expanded to take up to 6,500 people.) The largest of the Stockport Air Raid Shelters are open to the public as part of the town's museum service.\n\nIn southeast London, residents made use of the Chislehurst Caves beneath Chislehurst, a network of underground caves which have existed since the Middle Ages for the mining of chalk and flint.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, it was being recognised early that public shelters in open spaces, especially near streets, were urgently needed for pedestrians, drivers and passengers in passing vehicles, etc. The programme of building street communal shelters commenced in March 1940, the government supplying the materials, and being the moving force behind the scheme, and private builders executing the work under the supervision of surveyors. These shelters consisted of 14-inch brick walls and reinforced concrete roofs, similarly to, but much larger than, the private shelters in backyards and gardens being introduced slightly later. The communal shelters were usually intended to accommodate about fifty persons, and were divided into various sections by interior walls with openings connecting the different sections. Sections were normally furnished with six bunks.\n\nThe construction work then went on rapidly, until the resources of concrete and bricks began to be depleted due to the excessive demand placed on them so suddenly. Also, the performance of the early street shelters was a serious blow to public confidence. Their walls were shaken down either by earth shock or blast, and the concrete roofs then fell onto the helpless occupants, and this was there for all to see. At around the same time rumours of accidents started to circulate, such as on one occasion people being drowned due to a burst main filling up the shelter with water. Although much improved designs were being introduced whose performance had been demonstrated in explosion trials, communal shelters became highly unpopular, and shortly afterwards householders were being encouraged to build or have built private shelters on their properties, or within their houses, with materials being supplied by the government.\n\nThe Anderson shelter was designed in 1938 by William Paterson and Oscar Carl (Karl) Kerrison in response to a request from the Home Office. It was named after Sir John Anderson, then Lord Privy Seal with special responsibility for preparing air-raid precautions immediately prior to the outbreak of World War II, and it was he who then initiated the development of the shelter. After evaluation by Dr David Anderson, Bertram Lawrence Hurst, and Sir Henry Jupp, of the Institution of Civil Engineers, the design was released for production.\n\nAnderson shelters were designed to accommodate up to six people. The main principle of protection was based on curved and straight galvanised corrugated steel panels. Six curved panels were bolted together at the top, so forming the main body of the shelter, three straight sheets on either side, and two more straight panels were fixed to each end, one containing the door—a total of fourteen panels. A small drainage sump was often incorporated in the floor to collect rainwater seeping into the shelter. The shelters were high, wide, and long. They were either buried 4 ft (1.2 m) deep in the soil and then covered with a minimum of of soil above the roof or in some cases installed inside people's houses and covered with sandbags. When they were buried outside, the earth banks could be planted with vegetables and flowers, that at times could be quite an appealing sight and in this way would become the subject of competitions of the best-planted shelter among householders in the neighbourhood. The internal fitting out of the shelter was left to the owner and so there were wide variations in comfort.\n\nAnderson shelters were issued free to all householders who earned less than £5 a week (equivalent to £ in , when adjusted for inflation). Those with a higher income were charged £7 (£ in ) for their shelter. One and a half million shelters of this type were distributed between February 1939 and the outbreak of war. During the war a further 2.1 million were erected. Large numbers were manufactured at John Summers & Sons ironworks at Shotton on Deeside with production peaking at 50,000 units per week.\n\nThe Anderson shelters performed well under blast and ground shock, because they had good connectivity and ductility, which meant that they could absorb a great deal of energy through plastic deformation without falling apart. (This was in marked contrast to other trench shelters which used concrete for the sides and roof, which were inherently unstable when disturbed by the effects of an explosion – if the roof slab lifted, the walls fell in under the static earth pressure; if the walls were pushed in, the roof would be unsupported at one edge and would fall.) However, when the pattern of all night alerts became established, it was realised that in winter Anderson shelters installed outside were cold damp holes in the ground and often flooded in wet weather, and so their occupancy factor would be poor. This led to the development of the indoor Morrison shelter.\n\nAt the end of the war in Europe, households who had received an Anderson shelter were expected to remove their shelters and local authorities began the task of reclaiming the corrugated iron. Householders who wished to keep their Anderson shelter (or more likely the valuable metal) could pay a nominal fee.\n\nBecause of the large number made and their robustness, many Anderson shelters still survive. Many were dug up after the war and converted into storage sheds for use in gardens and allotments.\n\nA near exact walk-thru replica of an Anderson Air Raid Shelter is displayed at the Tillamook Air Museum, Oregon, United States of America.\n\n \nThe Morrison shelter, officially termed \"Table (Morrison) Indoor Shelter\", had a cage-like construction beneath it. It was designed by John Baker and named after Herbert Morrison, the Minister of Home Security at the time. It was the result of the realisation that due to the lack of house cellars it was necessary to develop an effective type of indoor shelter.\nThe shelters came in assembly kits, to be bolted together inside the home. They were approximately 6 ft 6 in (2 m) long, 4 ft (1.2 m) wide and 2 ft 6 in (0.75 m) high, had a solid 1/8 in (3 mm) steel plate “table” top, welded wire mesh sides, and a metal lath “mattress”- type floor. Altogether it had 359 parts and had 3 tools supplied with the pack.\n\nThe shelter was provided free to households whose combined income was less than £400 per year (equivalent to £ in ).\n\nWhen Head of the Engineering Department at Cambridge University, Professor Sir John Baker (latterly Baron Baker) presented an undergraduate lecture on the principles of design of the shelter, as an interesting introduction to his theory of plastic design of structures and it can be summarised as follows:\n\nHalf a million Morrison shelters had been distributed by the end of 1941, with a further 100,000 being added in 1943 to prepare the population for the expected German V-1 flying bomb (doodlebug) attacks.\n\nIn one examination of 44 severely damaged houses it was found that three people had been killed, 13 seriously injured, and 16 slightly injured out of a total of 136 people who had occupied Morrison shelters; thus 120 out of 136 escaped from severely bomb-damaged houses without serious injury. Furthermore, it was discovered that the fatalities had occurred in a house which had suffered a direct hit, and some of the severely injured were in shelters sited incorrectly within the houses.\n\nIn July 1950 the Royal Commission on Awards to Inventors made an award of £3,000 (£) to Baker for his design of the Morrison shelter.\n\nA segment shelter manufactured by the Stanton Ironworks, Ilkeston, Derbyshire. The shop producing spun-concrete lighting columns ceased production and turned over to concrete air-raid shelters, of which 100,000 tons were manufactured, principally for the air ministry. Reinforced concrete proved an ideal material for air-raid shelters, being strong and resistant to shock with no deterioration with the passing of time. This type of segment shelter was of simple design and of low cost—any length of shelter could be built up from the pre-cast steel reinforced concrete segments. The segments were 20 inches wide; a pair of them formed an arch 7 feet high and transverse struts were provided to ensure rigidity. These fitted into longitudinal bearers which were grooved to receive the foot of each segment. Each pair of segments was bolted together at the apex of the arch and each segment was also bolted to its neighbour, the joints being sealed with a bituminous compound. The convenient handling of these segments enabled them to be transported onto sites where close access by motor lorry was not possible. Partly buried in the ground, with a suitably screened entrance, this bolted shelter afforded safe protection against blast and splinters.\n\nSome air-raid shelters were constructed in residential building schemes in anticipation of the Second World War. There is a surviving example at St Leonard's Court in East Sheen, southwest London.\n\nMilitary air-raid shelters included blast pens at airfields for the security of aircrews and aircraft maintenance personnel away from the main airbase buildings.\n\nFew shelters could survive a direct bomb-hit. The German authorities claimed that \"hochbunkers\" were totally bomb-proof, but none were targeted by any of the 41 10-ton Grand Slam earthquake bombs dropped by the RAF by the end of World War II. Two of these bombs were dropped on the \"U-Bootbunkerwerft\" Valentin submarine pens near Bremen and these barely penetrated of reinforced concrete, bringing down the roof.\n\nMore recently, the penetration by laser-guided \"smart bombs\" of the Amiriyah shelter during the 1991 Gulf War showed how vulnerable even reinforced concrete shelters are to direct hits from bunker-buster bombs. However, the air-raid shelters are built to protect the civilian population, so protection against a direct hit is of secondary value. The most important dangers are the blast and shrapnel. It is unlikely that any military enemy would intentionally target a civilian shelter, even if it were carpet bombing a city.\n\nOld air-raid shelters, such as the Anderson, can still be found in back gardens, in which they are commonly used as sheds, or (on the roof which is covered with earth) as vegetable patches. Some are left empty or are filled with debris.\n\nCountries which have kept air-raid shelters intact and in ready condition include Switzerland, Spain and Finland.\n\nMany Swiss houses and apartment blocks still have structurally reinforced, underground basements, often featuring a concrete door around thick. In more modern, post-war times, these shelters are often used as storage, with the footprint of the reinforced basement divided up into individual storage units according to the number of apartments in the house. The basement shelters are built to more stringent building codes, as the ceiling especially should protect shelter-seeking people from the house collapsing. Although most Swiss houses provide their own shelters, those that don't are required by law to post directions to the nearest shelter.\n\nBarcelona was severely bombed by Italian and German Air Forces during Spanish Civil War, particularly in 1937 and 1938. Underground tunnels were used as shelters at the same time that the population undertook the building of bomb shelters under the coordination of a committee for civil defense (Catalan: \"Junta de defensa passiva\") providing planning and technical assistance. Hundreds of bomb shelters were built. Most of them are recorded, but only a few are well preserved. Among these stand out the \"Plaça del Diamant\" refuge as well as air-shelter 307 (\"Refugi 307\"), today one of the Barcelona City History Museum heritage sites.\n\nOther cities with extant bomb shelters from the Spanish Civil War include Madrid, Guadalajara, Alcalá de Henares, Santander, Jaén, Alcañiz, Alcoy, Valencia and Cartagena. During the war, Cartagena, an important naval base, was one of the main targets for Franco's bombers. Cartagena suffered between 40 and 117 bombings (sources are mixed about the number of attacks). The most dramatic was one carried on by the German Condor Legion on November 25, 1936. The largest air raid shelter in Cartagena, which could accommodate up to 5.500 persons, has been a museum since 2004.\n\nThe State of Israel required all buildings to have access to air-raid shelters from 1951, and all new flats possess access to Merkhav Mugan. All medical and educational facilities are prepared for CRBN attacks (as of 2010) (as an example each surgery room is built to withstand a direct missile hit); some are built with closed-cycle air systems and are capable of being resistant to chemical agents for short periods of time; in addition all must include chemical air filtering systems. The public air-raid shelters are commonly employed as game rooms in peacetime so that the children will be comfortable to enter them at a time of need, and will not be frightened.\n\nFinland has over 40,000 air-raid shelters which can house 3.8 million people (71% of the population). Private homes rarely have them, but houses over are obliged to build them. Fire inspectors check the shelters every ten years and flaws have to be repaired or corrected as soon as possible. The law requires that inhabitants of apartment blocks must clear the shelters and put them into action in less than 72 hours. Half of the air-raid shelter has to be ready to use in two hours. The types of shelters are:\n\nAll shelters must have:\n\nSince 1998, Singapore has required all new houses and flats to have a shelter built to certain specifications. The Singapore Civil Defence Force rationalizes building such shelters in high-rise buildings by noting that weapon effects tend to be localized, and are unlikely to cause an entire building to collapse.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5494919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5494919", "title": "Alice Evans", "text": "Alice Evans\n\nAlice Jane Evans is a British actress.\n\nEvans, the daughter of educators and the granddaughter of a coal miner, was born in Bristol England to English parents, mathematician David Evans and Janet Evans. She was raised in Bristol, England, along with her two British-born brothers, Anthony and Philip. She graduated from University College London with a in French and Italian.\n\nAfter graduation, she moved to Paris' Cours Florent. She gained work in French television, with her breakthrough role as French student Susan in the popular French sitcom, \"Elisa Top Modele\", which ran for 18 months. Next, she went to Italy to play \"Nathalie\", in the 1998 Italian miniseries \"Le ragazze di Piazza di Spagna\". Her first English-speaking role was in the Highlander episode 'Patient Number 7'. After making her first film, \"Monsieur Naphtali\" (1999), Oscar-winning director Claude Lelouch cast Evans as Macha in \"Une pour toutes\" (1999), alongside Sami Naceri and Anne Parillaud.\n\nIn 1999, Disney cast Evans alongside Glenn Close, Gérard Depardieu and her future husband, Ioan Gruffudd, in \"102 Dalmatians\". Evans' mother died at age 59, the day before Evans's final screen test for the role, which introduced her to British viewers.\n\nAfter appearing in \"Blackball\", she moved to Los Angeles in 2003. She has since appeared in both television and film, such as \"The Mentalist\", \"Brothers & Sisters\", \"Lost\", and \"Grimm\". Evans also had a recurring turn as the villainous Esther on \"The Vampire Diaries\" and \"The Originals\".\n\nEvans first met actor Ioan Gruffudd during the filming of \"102 Dalmatians\", while she was in her eight-year relationship with Olivier Widmaier Picasso, a grandson of painter Pablo Picasso. She lived with Picasso in Paris, and they became engaged but later broke up.\n\nGruffudd stated on \"The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson\" that he and Evans became engaged on New Year's Day 2006 after Evans gave him an ultimatum, declaring that after 7 years together she wasn't going to hang around any longer unless she was his wife. They married on 14 September 2007 in Mexico. The couple resides in Los Angeles, California, and has two daughters, Ella Betsi Janet (born 6 September 2009) and Elsie Marigold (born 13 September 2013). \n\n"}
{"id": "23491175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23491175", "title": "Art theft and looting during World War II", "text": "Art theft and looting during World War II\n\nArt theft and looting occurred on a massive scale during World War II. It originated with the policies of the Axis countries, primarily Nazi Germany and Japan, which systematically looted occupied territories. Near the end of the war the Soviet Union, in turn, began looting reclaimed and occupied territories. \"The grand scale of looted artwork by the Nazis has resulted in the loss of many pieces being scattered across the world.\" (Minyard, 2007)\n\nAlthough the looting of \"cultural heritage\" of the German people and private collectors was not permitted in the 1945 agreement of Yalta, following the defeat of Germany by the Allied forces the following goods disappeared: three truckloads of precious art, which was listed in a confiscated list by the US forces (in the mine Merker in Thuringia), and one trainload of 20 wagons loaded with artwork and jewels from Hungary (named the \"gold train\"). According to a 2001 \"Der Spiegel\" article, the artwork is suspected to be in the US and has never been officially declared. The lost artworks from the \"Grube Merker,\" about 450 pictures, are not found in any museum and thought to have been sold privately.\n\nAn attempt by the US to confiscate more German art by requesting 202 precious pictures to be taken was prevented by Walter Farmer on 6 November 1945, an art protection officer in Wiesbaden leading the central art collection store. Although against his direct orders from the US, he assembled 24 colleagues from Germany and Austria and successfully prevented the removal of the pictures (named as operation \"Westward Ho\"). Before his death in 1997, Farmer was awarded Germany's highest civilian honor, the Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit, for his work in returning the 202 paintings. \n\nIn the book \"Art as Politics in the Third Reich\" by Jonathan Petropoulus he outlines how there is a need for further cooperation by smaller art galleries to recover art that they may be holding and not know who it belongs to. He says that there are still many tens of thousands of pieces of art missing today, but there is still more research to be done to get a more accurate number.\n\nA large plan was drafted by the Nazis for much of the stolen art to be featured in a so-called Führermuseum, which would display much of the art plundered by the Nazis. This museum would feature works that were not considered to be \"degenerate art\" and would instead solely focus on the aesthetics that Hitler considered to be \"good\", and was to be created in the city of Linz. However, this museum was never created, and much of the art that may have been on display there is still missing today. The Nazis were so vehemently against the loss of the art that they had plundered for this museum that there was a plan to destroy a stockpile of art saved for the Führermuseum at the Altaussee salt mines, which held over 12000 pieces of stolen art, using eight 500-kilogram bombs.\n\nCountless pieces of art were stolen during the Holocaust and many were destroyed. The Nazis were relentless in their efforts to get rid of the Jewish people and their culture. Paintings that had been passed down from generation to generation were taken and destroyed. This was extremely emotionally hard for many Jewish families because it was not only an attack on their families and culture, but also on their history. There have barely been any efforts of restitution. Many of the families who lost art are simply now left with claims. One of the primary problems encountered by individuals pursuing claims is that it is difficult to locate the necessary documentation on provenance. Organizations with information on a piece's history, museums in particular, often have a disincentive to share information that could assist in an heir's claim.\n\nFor organized looting, see:\n\nOn a smaller scale, art was stolen by individuals from various countries, taking opportunity of the chaotic war conditions. For example, see:\n\n"}
{"id": "1643691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1643691", "title": "Ch’orti’ language", "text": "Ch’orti’ language\n\nThe Ch'orti' language (sometimes also \"Chorti\") is a Mayan language, spoken by the indigenous Maya people who are also known as the Ch'orti' or Ch'orti' Maya. Ch'orti' is a direct descendant of the Classic Maya language in which many of the pre-Columbian inscriptions using the Maya script were written. This Classic Maya language is also attested in a number of inscriptions made in regions whose inhabitants most likely spoke a different Mayan language variant, including the ancestor of Yukatek Maya. Ch'orti' is the modern version of the ancient Mayan language Ch'olan (which was actively used and most popular between the years of A.D 250 and 850).\n\nCh’orti’ can be called a living “Rosetta Stone” of Mayan Languages. Ch’orti’ language is an important factor to comprehend the contents of Maya hieroglyphic writings, some of which are not yet fully understood. Over several years, many linguists and anthropologists expected to realize the Ch’orti’ culture and language by studying its words and expressions. Ch'orti' is spoken mainly in and around Jocotán and Camotán, Chiquimula department, Guatemala, as well as adjacent areas of parts of western Honduras near the Copan Ruins. Because the classic Mayan language was ancestral to the modern Ch'orti, Ch'orti can be used to decipher the ancient language. For example, it was discovered that the Mayan language had distinct grammatical patterns, such as a consonant/vowel syllable aspect. Researchers realized that the ancient language was based more on phonetics than previously thought.\n\nThe name Chorti' (with unglottalized <ch>) means 'language of the corn farmers' which references to the traditional agricultural activity of the Ch'orti' families. The politicized spelling Ch'orti' was introduced later in an attempt to lessen associations between Ch'orti' speakers and stereotypical professions.\n\nCh'orti' language is one of the three modern descendants of Ch’olan language which is a sub-group of Mayan languages. Other two modern descendants are Ch’ontal and Ch’ol.\nThese three descendants are still spoken by people. Ch’orti’ language and Ch’olti language are two sub-branches belong to the Eastern Ch’olan. And Ch’olti language is already extinct today.\n\nActually there are some debates among the scholars how the Ch’olan language should be classified. John Robertson considered the direct ancestor of colonial Ch'olti' is the language of the hieroglyphs. The language of the hieroglyphs is realized as 'Classic Ch'olti'an' by John Robertson, David Stuart, and Stephen Houston. And then the language of the hieroglyphs in turn becomes the ancestor of Ch’orti’.The relationship shows as the chart below.\n\nThe Ch'orti' have their own standard way of writing their language. However, the inaccurate ways to represent phoneme lead to some variations among all of the publications recently.\n\nCh'orti' 's consonants include glottal stop ', b, b', ch, ch', d, g, j, k, k', l, m, n, p, r, s, t, t', tz, tz', w, x, y.\n\nBoth /b/ and /d/ rarely occur in native vocabulary. Instead, they usually appear in Spanish words. The <j> is a voiceless velar fricative. The <x> is a voiceless palatal fricative. The <w> and <y> are semivowels.\n\nThe ordering of terms would be that the consonants follows after the non glottal versions. Besides, words with rearticulated root vowels follow after their corresponding short vowels.\n\nTherefore, the order of presentation will be as follows: a, a', b, b', ch, ch', d, e, \ne', g, i, i', j, k, k', l, m, n, o, o', p, r, s, t, t', tz, tz', u, u', w, x, y.\n\nThe vowels consist of a, e, i, o, and u.\n\nThe aspectual system of Ch'orti' language changed to a tripartite pronominal system which comes with different morphemes used for the subject of transitive verbs, the object of transitive verbs and the subject of intransitive completive verbs, and a third set of pronouns only used for the subject of incompletive intransitive verbs.\n\nCh’orti’ tripartite pronominal system (data from Hull 2005)\n\nTransitive \n\n‘The boy chops the wood (into tiny pieces)’\n\nIntransitive completive \n\n‘The tomato turned out delicious’\n\nIntransitive incompletive\n\n‘The sun sets in the west’\n\nThe following list contains examples of common words in the Ch'orti' language:\n\nThe Ch'orti' people are descendants of the people who lived in and around Copán, one of the cultural capitals of the ancient Maya area. This covers parts of modern-day Honduras and Guatemala. Ch'orti is considered an endangered language as well as an endangered culture.\n\nThis region is the only region in the world that Ch'orti speakers can be found. Although the area is completely shaded in, the majority of speakers reside in Guatemala, while the rest are sparsely distributed throughout the rest of the area.\n\nThe government of Honduras has been trying to promote a uniform national language of Spanish, and therefore discourages the use and teaching of native languages such as Ch'orti. The Ch'orti' people in Honduras face homogenization and have to assimilate to their surroundings. The government has been clashing with the Ch'orti people over land disputes from the 1800s, which puts the people (and thus the language) at risk. In 1997, 2 prominent Ch'orti leaders were assassinated. This assassination is just one example of many cases where Ch'orti advocates have been harmed or killed. Every one of these killings reduces the number of Ch'orti speakers. As of right now, there are only 10 remaining native speakers in Honduras.\n\nThe government of Guatemala has been more supportive of Ch'orti speakers and has promoted programs that encourage the learning and teaching of Ch'orti. The Ch'orti's in Guatemala wear traditional clothing, unlike their counterparts in Honduras, who wear modern-day clothing. Currently there are about 55,250 Ch'orti speakers in Guatemala. Even though Guatemala has established Spanish as its official language, it supports the teaching of these native languages.\n\nik'ik'-black k'ank'an-yellow\nsaksak-white yaxyax-green/blue\nchäkchäk-red\nThe majority of Ch'orti' live in the Chiquimula Department of Guatemala, approximately 52,000. The remaining 4,000 live in Copán, Honduras. Traditionally, the highland Maya Indian people were dependent on maize and beans. The K'iche' Maya however, dominated the Ch'orti' dating back to the early fifteenth century. Warfare as well as disease devastated much of the Ch'orti' during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Much of their land was lost to the Guatemalan government in the nineteenth century as well. More recently, 25 percent of the Guatemalan Ch'orti' went to the United States during the 1980s to escape political persecution.\n\nCatata Dios / Our Father\n\n9b Catata Dios xe' turet tichan, catattz'i ac'ab'a xe' erach.\n\nLar tua' ic'otori tara tor e rum wacchetaca. Y chen lo que ac'ani tara tor e rum b'an cocha war ache tichan tut e q'uin.\n\nAjc'unon lo que uc'ani tua' cac'uxi tama inte' inte' día.\n\nC'umpen tacaron tamar camab'amb'anir lo que cay cache toit net, b'an cocha war cac'umpa taca tin e cay uchiob' e mab'amb'anir\n\ncapater ub'an.\n\nIra awacton tua' capijchna sino que corpeson tama tunor uc'otorer e diablo. Porque net jax Careyet, y net ayan meyra ac'otorer, y net ayan meyra atawarer xe' machi tua' ac'apa. Amén.\n\nThe communities of Copan are populated by \"farmers with indigenous tradition\", essentially, agricultural laborers known as the Ch'orti'. Illiteracy rates in these communities fall between 92 and 100 percent, infant mortality rates of 60 percent, and life expectancy being 49 years for men and 55 years for women. A conflict that has effected the Copan area immensely is land tenure. \nOriginally, Ch'orti's used communal land and owned individual plots. Shortly after the Spanish conquest, the land and people became Spanish property. The land was then used in the aparceria system (farmers rent land in return for payment of a proportion of the harvest obtained). This system was stable for hundreds of years, until the Honduran government signed Convention 169 of the International Labour Organization (ILO) in 1991. This organization was established to protect and benefit indigenous communities such as the Ch'orti' by improving access to land, health, and housing as well as other basic necessities. The murder of Ch'orti leader Candido Amador in April 1997 sparked another conflict, resulting in the government signing an agreement with the Ch'orti' organization (CONICHH) offering 2,000 ha of land in Copan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55206266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55206266", "title": "Clarissa Caldwell Lathrop", "text": "Clarissa Caldwell Lathrop\n\nClarissa Caldwell Lathrop (1847 – September 11, 1892) was an American social reformer and autobiographer. Her prominence came from her remarkable experience, being confined and unlawfully imprisoned in the Utica Lunatic Asylum for 26 months (October 1880 – December 1882), through a plot of a secret enemy to kill her. She eventually managed to communicate with James Bailey Silkman, a lawyer who, like herself, was confined in the same asylum under similar circumstances. He succeeded in obtaining a writ of \"habeas corpus\", and Judge George G. Barnard of the New York Supreme Court pronounced Lathrop sane and unlawfully incarcerated.\n\nAfter that time, she devoted her life to ameliorating the laws relating to lunacy. Lathrop felt she owed it to women to take her case before the New York State Legislature, and demand reform in this direction, but she was unsuccessful in two efforts and found herself penniless and facing the need to support herself. After several efforts, she became a court stenographer, and ten years after her release, wrote a book, the story of her own institutionalization, entitled \"A Secret Institution.\" Published at her own expense, this book led to the formation of the Lunacy Law Reform League, in 1889, a national organization with headquarters in New York City, of which Lathrop became the secretary and was the national organizer.\n\nClarissa Caldwell Lathrop was born in Rochester, New York. She was a daughter of Gen. William E. Lathrop, a Brigadier General of the National Guard. Lathrop’s father had met and married Lathrop’s mother, Jemima, at the age of 42 – Jemima was only 19.  Lathrop had been one of five children, but had lost her eldest brother to disease in 1865 and her second eldest brother moved to the southern part of the country to look for work.  Lathrop’s father passed away in 1877 leaving his wife, and his three daughters to open their home to board strangers for income.\n\nShe graduated from the Rochester Academy.\n\nLathrop also often traveled significant distances and visited friends around Rochester.\n\nLathrop became a teacher, which, owing to her father's failure in business, became a means of support to her family as well as to herself. She continued to teach successfully until her unlawful imprisonment in the Utica State Hospital (formerly known as the New York State Lunatic Asylum at Utica).\n\nLathrop feared that Miss Hamlo, a boarder in her mother's house, was poisoning her. Lathrop was obsessed with a Mr. Zell, a former lover who married another woman after Lathrop rejected him. After repenting her decision to reject Zell, Lathrop became convinced that Hamlo was in alliance with Zell's wife. After Lathrop began seeing Zell eveywhere, she believed he had divorced, and would now marry her if Lathrop survived Hamlo's poisonings. When Lathrop's life was saved on two occasions by friends, she took some of the aconite-poisoned tea to a chemist for analysis, as she sought reliable proof before making open charges against any one. At the instigation of a doctor who was in sympathy with the plot to incarcerate Lathrop, she went to Utica to consult Dr. John P. Gray, Superintendent of the State Lunatic Asylum in Utica, New York. Instead of seeing Grey, upon her arrival, she was incarcerated with the insane, without the commitment papers required by law, and kept a prisoner at the asylum for 26 months.\n\nShe was sent to the asylum at the insistence of her mother and sisters, who lived in Rochester, and who asserted that Lathrop was suffering from the delusion that somebody was trying to poison her. Her answer was that it was not a delusion, that somebody was endeavoring to poison her. But she was willing to accept proof to the contrary, which was also evidence that there was no delusion. Nonetheless, her incarceration ensued. By the time Lathrop was admitted to the asylum, she was 32 years old and unmarried despite engagements to two different men.  Her first engagement was broken off by her fiancé due to cold feet and her second betrothed died from consumption.\n\nThe hospital, according to Lathrop was “a living tomb.”\n\nWithin a few weeks of her arrival at Utica, Lathrop had written letters to two of her physician friends only to find out later that her letters had never been mailed.  The attending physician claimed they were not sent because the asylum was not obliged to send her letters “all over the country.”  Lathrop was “amazed and dumbfounded” at the idea that not only would her letters be read by the asylum doctors, but that they would never reach their intended destination. Lathrop had easily made a friend who had revealed to her how she would be able to communicate to the outside world without getting caught by the authorities. She obtained paper through another patient who had hidden the contraband in her room. The woman would not out rightly give the paper to Lathrop for fear of punishment for aiding and abetting, but hinted that there was nothing she could do if Lathrop took a page or two while she was elsewhere. Lathrop also wrote on newspaper edges and scraps of wrapping paper which she also hid in her skirt.\n\nEventually, she managed to communicate with Silkman, a New York lawyer, who had been forcibly carried off and imprisoned in the same insane asylum. He obtained a writ of \"habeas corpus\" at once on behalf of Lathrop, and in December, 1882, Judge Barnard of the New York Supreme Court pronounced Lathrop to be sane and unlawfully incarcerated.\n\nImmediately upon her release, Lathrop went before the New York State Legislature. She described her experience and the necessity for reform. After making another fruitless effort the succeeding year, she found herself homeless and penniless, and dependent upon a cousin's generosity for shelter and support, forced to begin her new life under the most difficult circumstances.\nLathrop collected money for a charitable society on a commission, spending her evenings studying stenography and typewriting. She soon started a business of her own and was successful as a court stenographer. Ten years after her release, she wrote her book, \"A Secret Institution\", which was a history of her own life, written in the style of a novel, and descriptive of what she experienced or witnessed while an inmate of the Utica asylum.\n\nKeeping true to her vow “to devote the rest of [her] life to the cause of the insane,” Lathrop formed the Lunacy Law Reform and the Anti-Kidnapping Leagues.  The Leagues provided legal services to asylum patients who felt they were victims of a corrupt legal system. The goal of the leagues was to “protect sane people from false imprisonment.”  Both groups had helped several individuals who had been unjustly incarcerated secure their freedom. The Lunacy Law Reform League in 1889, was a national organization having its headquarters in New York City, of which she was secretary and national organizer.\n\nLathrop died in Saratoga, New York, on September 11, 1892, and is buried at Mount Hope Cemetery, in Rochester.\n\nAlbert Bach, legal counsel to Lathrop, held that the interesting point in the case was the question of the deprivation of Lathrop's postal rights while in the asylum. She was not permitted to have writing materials, and even though she succeeded in obtaining them, the asylum authorities disposed of her letters as they pleased. The claim was asserted that asylum managers have no such control over inmates as have prison managers; that the former institutions have more of the character of hospitals. Bach found nothing in the by-laws of the Utica asylum giving the right to this close supervision. He said that there were many instances of wrongful incarceration, and that justice would seem to dictate that inmates of asylums should have access to the mails. Even though much of it would be trash, it would be well worth while to endure that if information could be obtained to the release of a person improperly detained.\n\nReports suggested that Lathrop would bring a suit of U$25,000 damages against the management of the Utica State Insane Asylum. The grounds alleged were the wrongful detention of herself, and the seizure of her letters written to friends asking them to help her to regain her liberty. Lathrop’s lawyer gave the following statement of the scope of the lawsuit: Of course the main point is in regard to the interception of letters that she wrote to friends asking for assistance. If the managers of the asylums have the right to intercept letters, they have the power to shut a person entirely from the world, whether the person be insane or not. This is a difference between a criminal and a lunatic. In the case of a criminal he is in his position through his own fault, but the insane person is a patient, and deserves all possible consideration. If they stop a person’s letters, they virtually remove from that person the possibility of obtaining release. The suit is brought not so much for the sake of damages, as to test the point whether or not the managers of asylums have a right to enforce such a rule. I have become interested in the matter, and intend to follow it up and test the question thoroughly. One of the things I will do will be to write to the Postmaster General, asking if it would not be advisable in case we can prove that the authorities are wrong in prohibiting the forwarding of letters, to place free delivery boxes in all asylums, that the patients may have a chance to correspond without difficulty with their friends. I believe such a system would do away with much of the abuse that without doubt exists in many asylums, and would greatly lessen the chance of sane persons being held in confinement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37739466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37739466", "title": "Constitution Club of India", "text": "Constitution Club of India\n\nConstitution Club of India is a club started for members of Indian Constituent Assembly. In present days the Constitution Club acts as a platform for interaction amongst the Past & Present Members of Parliament. The club is registered under the Societies Registration Act 1860.\nThe club was established as an informal group in year 1947 housed at Curzon Road. It was formally inaugurated by Shri Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan, philosopher & academician President in February 1965. At the present location Constitution Club of India is Vithal Bhai Patel House.\n\nWheres the Constitution Club of India was opened in February 1947 with the objectives & purposes of fostering social contacts and providing usual amenities of a club life for the benefit of the members of the Indian Constituent Assembly. AND WHEREAS the Constitution Club of India has effectively emerged as an enviable forum providing platform for interaction amongst the Past & Present member of Parliament. And wheres it has been found expedient to constitute a Society for the furtherance of its main aims and objectives. NOW Therefore, we the Signatories to this Memorandum of Association have agreed to form this society by the name \"Constitution Club of India\" hereinafter referred as Club and to register it under the Societies Registration Act 1860.\n\nAfter the Independence, the Club has emerged as a platform for exhibitions, vital meetings, events, press conferences, elite parties & social hangouts between the present and former Members of Parliament.\n\nSmt. Sumitra Mahajan, Hon'ble Speaker Lok Sabha, President. She is the 16th Speaker of Lok Sabha. Shri P. J. Kurien, Hon'ble ex-Deputy Chairman, Rajya Sabha & Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Hon'ble Minister of State (Independent Charge) for Housing and Urban Affairs, are the Vice President. Shri M. Thambidurai, Hon'ble Deputy Speaker Lok Sabha is the General Secretary.\n\nShri Rajiv Pratap Rudy as Secretary (Administration), Shri Rajiv Shukla as Secretary (Sports), Shri Madhu G Yaskhi as Secretary (Culture), Shri Om Birla as Treasurer. Other Executive Members of the Club are Shri A P Jithender Reddy, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, Shri Praful Patel, Shri D Raja, Shri Kalikesh Singh Deo, Shri Sandeep Dikshit, Shri Vivek Gupta, Shri Satish C Mishra, Shri Naveen Jindal & Shri Anurag Singh Thakur. Director of Constitution Club of India is Shri Arvind Kumar.\n\n\nFacebook - https://www.facebook.com/constitutionclubindia/\n\nTwitter - https://twitter.com/ccoi_1947\n"}
{"id": "320709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320709", "title": "Death of Diane Whipple", "text": "Death of Diane Whipple\n\nDiane Alexis Whipple (January 21, 1968 – January 26, 2001) was a lacrosse player and college coach. She was killed in a dog attack in San Francisco on January 26, 2001. The dogs involved were two Presa Canarios: a male named Bane and a female named Hera. Paul Schneider, the dogs' owner, is a high-ranking member of the Aryan Brotherhood and is serving a life sentence in state prison. The dogs were cared for by Schneider's husband-and-wife attorneys, Robert Noel and Marjorie Knoller, who lived in the same apartment building as Diane Whipple. After the fatal attack, the state brought criminal charges against the attorneys. Robert Noel, who was not present during the attack, was convicted of manslaughter. Marjorie Knoller, who was present, was charged with implied-malice second-degree murder and convicted by the jury. Knoller's murder conviction, an unusual result for an unintended dog attack, was rejected by the trial judge but ultimately upheld. The case clarified the meaning of implied malice murder.\n\nWhipple was born in Princeton, New Jersey. She grew up and attended high school in Manhasset, New York, on Long Island. She was raised primarily by her grandparents, and was a gifted athlete from a young age. She became a two-time All-American lacrosse player in high school, and later at Penn State. She was twice a member of the U.S. Women's Lacrosse World Cup team.\n\nWhipple later moved to San Francisco, and came within seconds of qualifying for the U.S. 1996 Olympics team in track and field, for the 800 meters. However, she did not compete at the 1996 Olympic Team Trials. She became the lacrosse coach at Saint Mary's College of California in Moraga, California.\n\nAt the time of her death, Whipple lived in San Francisco's Pacific Heights with her domestic partner of six years, Sharon Smith.\n\nMarjorie Fran Knoller (born c. 1956) and Robert Edward Noel (born c. 1942) were attorneys married to each other. They were caregivers to the dogs that killed Diane Whipple in San Francisco on January 26, 2001. After a trial that attracted international attention, they were sent to prison for involuntary manslaughter. However on August 22, 2008, San Francisco Judge Charlotte Woolard reinstated Knoller's second degree murder conviction.\n\nAs Knoller was reported to be 46 years old in 2002, she was born c.1956. After attending Brooklyn College, Knoller received her J.D. degree from McGeorge School of Law in Sacramento, California.\n\nAs Noel was reported to be 60 years old in 2002, he was born c.1942. He \"graduated from the University of Baltimore Law School in 1967.\"\n\nThe two were married in 1989. Starting in the mid-1990s, Noel and Knoller ran \"their law office... out of a converted closet in their Pacific Heights apartment\" in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2000, Knoller and Noel \"obtained their two Presa Canarios, named Bane and Hera, through their relationship with a pair of Pelican Bay State Prison inmates, Paul 'Cornfed' Schneider (who they had legally adopted as their son) and Dale Bretches, members of the Aryan Brotherhood prison gang.\" Knoller and Noel had first met Schneider at a trial. Bane was male and Hera female; by January 2001, \"Bane weighed 140 pounds and Hera close to 100 pounds.\"\n\nAlthough because of his larger size Noel \"usually handled Bane,\" Knoller \"was home alone with the dogs\" on January 26, 2001, and \"Bane had to go out,\" so \"she decided to take Bane up to the roof, just one flight up the stairs.\" Diane Whipple was \"returning from a trip to the grocery store\" when Bane and possibly Hera attacked her in the hallway. (Hera's \"role in the mauling has never been firmly established.\" There was \"no way to prove or disprove\" that Hera participated in the attack on Whipple; however, \"Hera had parts of Diane [Whipple]'s clothes in her feces,\" and \"experts and authorities speculated that the bites on Whipple's inner thighs had most probably come from Hera.\".)\n\nThe dog(s) caused \"77 wounds\" to Whipple, with \"only her scalp and feet escap[ing] harm.\" Whipple died at San Francisco General Hospital; the cause of death was \"loss of blood from multiple traumatic injuries (dog bite wounds).\"\n\nBane \"was destroyed immediately after the attack\"; Hera was seized and destroyed in January 2002.\n\nOn January 29, 2001, \"Knoller and Noel formally adopt[ed] Schneider, who [was] serving a life sentence for aggravated assault and attempted murder.\" It was reported that \"even their relatives [were] at a loss to understand\" the adoption.\n\nIn March 2001, a grand jury indicted Knoller and Noel. Knoller was indicted for second-degree murder and involuntary manslaughter, Noel was indicted for involuntary manslaughter, and \"both also face[d] felony charges of keeping a mischievous dog.\"\n\nThe trial by jury, which began in January 2002, \"was moved to Los Angeles because of extensive publicity in the Bay Area.\" Among other aspects, the trial was notable for:\n\nThe jury convicted Knoller and Noel on all counts in March 2002. Knoller became \"the first person ever to be convicted of murder in a dog-mauling case in California.\" Jurors interviewed after the trial said that Knoller's testimony was \"not believable.\"\n\nIn April 2002, Knoller replaced her attorney Nedra Ruiz with attorney Dennis Riordan. A San Francisco Superior Court judge, in a June 2002 ruling, overturned Knoller's second-degree murder conviction because he could not \"say, as a matter of law, that her [Knoller's] conduct was such that she subjectively knew on Jan. 26 that a human being was likely to die.\" Prosecutor Hammer called the decision a \"travesty.\"\n\nNoel was sentenced in June 2002 \"to the four-year maximum term\" for involuntary manslaughter. He was sent to Deuel Vocational Institution but was later moved to Oregon because of \"concerns that his having represented inmates and prison guards in California might jeopardize his safety.\"\n\nKnoller was sentenced in July 2002 to four years in prison for involuntary manslaughter and \"was transferred within hours\" to Valley State Prison for Women (VSPW). In September 2003 Knoller was \"still serving her time\" at VSPW when Noel was sent from Oregon to High Desert State Prison and then paroled to Solano County.\n\nDuring her time at VSPW, Knoller \"refused to work.\" The January 1, 2004, \"Los Angeles Times\" stated that Knoller served all \"16 months of [her] four-year sentence\" at VSPW, which \"is typical for inmates who avoid trouble in prison and receive credit for time served in jail before sentencing.\" The January 1, 2004, \"San Francisco Chronicle\" stated that Knoller was to be released from VSPW to \"serve three years' parole somewhere in Southern California.\" According to newspaper reports on January 3, 2004, however, Knoller was actually released from Central California Women's Facility on January 1, 2004, and sent to Ventura County on parole.\n\nThe terms of Knoller's and Noel's paroles included:\n\n\nThe office of California Attorney General Bill Lockyer had filed an April 2003 appeal of the Superior Court's June 2002 overturning of Knoller's second-degree murder conviction. In May 2005 the California 1st District Court of Appeal reinstated the jury's verdict of second-degree murder; Knoller's attorney Dennis Riordan said he would appeal the Court of Appeal's decision.\n\nAfter Knoller's and Noel's convictions in 2002, the State Bar of California had suspended their law licenses. In April 2007, it was reported that both Knoller and Noel had lost their law licenses. Knoller resigned her license in January 2007, and Noel was disbarred in February 2007.\n\nIn May 2007 the Supreme Court of California sent the 2002 case back to the Superior Court \"to consider restoring [the] jury's second-degree murder conviction.\" The California Supreme Court \"rejected both the lower-court standards and said Knoller, or any other defendant responsible for unintentional but fatal injuries, can be convicted of murder if they acted with 'conscious disregard of the danger to human life'.\"\n\nOn September 22, 2008, the San Francisco Superior Court re-instated Marjorie Knoller's conviction for second degree murder. The court sentenced Knoller to serve 15 years to life in state prison, with credit for time served.\n\nOn January 26, 2001, after returning home with bags of groceries, Whipple was attacked by two large Perro de Presa Canario dogs in the hallway of her apartment building. The dogs, named Bane and Hera, were cared for by neighbors Marjorie Knoller and her husband Robert Noel.\n\nThe dogs' actual owner, Paul Schneider, was a high-ranking member of the prison gang the Aryan Brotherhood who was serving a life sentence in Pelican Bay State Prison. Schneider and his cellmate Dale Bretches were attempting to start an illegal Presa Canario dog-fighting business from prison. They initially asked acquaintances Janet Coumbs and Hard Times Kennel owner/breeder James Kolber of Akron, Ohio to raise the dogs during their incarceration. Against Kolber's advice, Coumbs chained the dogs in a remote corner of the farm, which caused them to become even more aggressive. After Coumbs fell out of favor with Schneider, attorneys Noel and Knoller agreed to take possession of the dogs. They had become acquainted with Schneider while doing legal work for prisoners, and had adopted Schneider (then age 38) as their legal son a few days before the mauling. Bane, the larger of the dogs, weighed .\n\nJust prior to the attack, Knoller was taking the dogs up to the roof; Bane and possibly Hera attacked Whipple in the hallway. (Hera's role in the mauling has never been firmly established.) Whipple suffered a total of 77 wounds to every part of her body except her scalp and bottoms of her feet. Another neighbor called 911 after hearing Whipple's screams. Whipple died hours later at San Francisco General Hospital from \"loss of blood from multiple traumatic injuries (dog bite wounds)\".\n\nBane was euthanized immediately after the attack; Hera was seized and later euthanized in January 2002.\n\nWhipple's memorial service at St. Mary's College, held on Thursday, February 1, 2001, was attended by more than 400 people.\n\nIn March 2001, a grand jury indicted Knoller and Noel. Knoller was indicted for second-degree murder and involuntary manslaughter, Noel was indicted for involuntary manslaughter, and \"both also face[d] felony charges of keeping a mischievous dog\".\n\nAt trial, Knoller argued that she had attempted to defend Whipple during the attack. However, witnesses testified that Knoller and Noel had repeatedly refused to control the dogs; a professional dog walker testified that, after she told Noel to muzzle his dogs, he told her to \"shut up\" and called her offensive names. An acquaintance of Noel's testified that Noel did not apologize after Hera bit him a year before the fatal attack. Ultimately, the jury found both Noel and Knoller guilty of involuntary manslaughter and owning a mischievous animal that caused the death of a human being, and found Knoller guilty of second-degree murder. Their convictions were based on the argument that they knew the dogs were aggressive towards other people and that they did not take sufficient precautions. Whether they had actually trained the dogs to attack and fight remained unclear.\n\nAlthough the jury found Knoller guilty of second degree murder, trial judge James Warren granted Knoller a new trial on the second-degree murder conviction; the judge believed the appropriate standard for implied malice murder required that Knoller knew taking the dog into the hall involved a high probability of death. Although the judge granted a new trial for the second degree murder charge, he sentenced Knoller to four years in prison for the lesser-included involuntary manslaughter on 15 July 2002. Manslaughter and murder are exclusive: one cannot be convicted of both manslaughter and murder for killing the same person. The state appealed the judge's action and sought to reinstate the second degree murder conviction.\n\nAfter Knoller's and Noel's convictions in 2002, the State Bar of California suspended their law licenses. Noel was disbarred in February 2007.\n\nOn September 14, 2003, Noel was released from prison.\n\nAs of early 2004, both Knoller and Noel had served their terms for the manslaughter convictions, and Knoller was out on bail while her second-degree murder conviction was under appeal.\n\nIn May 2005, the state appellate court reversed the judge's grant of new second-degree murder trial for Knoller. The appellate court ruled that implied malice murder did not require knowledge of a high probability of death but rather just a conscious disregard of serious bodily injury. The appellate court returned the case to the lower court to reconsider Knoller's motion for a new trial using the serious bodily injury standard for implied malice murder.\n\nKnoller appealed the appellate court decision to the Supreme Court of California.\n\nOn June 1, 2007, the California Supreme Court rejected the Court of Appeal's decision and ruled that implied malice murder required proof that a defendant acted with \"conscious disregard\" of the danger to human life. The Supreme Court held that the trial court's standard for implied malice murder (which required a high probabily of death) was too strict and the appellate court's standard (which required only serious bodily injury rather than a danger to human life) was too broad. The Supreme Court remanded the case to the trial court to reconsider whether to allow the second-degree murder conviction to stand in light of this new reasoning. The San Francisco Superior Court reinstated the conviction for second-degree murder, and on September 22, 2008, the court sentenced Knoller to 15 years to life.\n\nKnoller then appealed the trial court's actions.\n\nOn August 23, 2010, the First District Court of Appeal unanimously upheld Knoller's conviction, finding that she acted with a conscious disregard for human life when her Presa Canario escaped and killed Whipple. The California Supreme Court declined to hear her appeal of that decision. Knoller is currently serving her sentence at Valley State Prison for Women in Chowchilla.\n\nIn November 2015, Knoller petitioned the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to overturn her second-degree murder conviction. In February 2016, the Ninth Circuit upheld Knoller's second degree murder conviction.\n\nWhipple's partner, Sharon Smith, also succeeded in suing Knoller and Noel for $1,500,000 in civil damages. She donated some of the money to Saint Mary's College of California to fund the women's lacrosse team.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4835417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4835417", "title": "Free price system", "text": "Free price system\n\nA free price system or free price mechanism (informally called \"the price system\" or \"the price mechanism\") is a mechanism of resource allocation that relies upon monetary prices set by the interchange of supply and demand. The resulting prices serve as \"signals\" communicated between producers and consumers which serve to guide the production and distribution of resources. Through the free price system, supplies are rationed, income is distributed, and resources are allocated. \n\nA free price system contrasts with a fixed price system where prices are administered by government in a controlled market. The price system, whether \"free\" or controlled, contrasts with physical and non-monetary economic planning.\n\nRather than prices being set by the state, as in a command economy with a \"fixed price system\", prices are determined in a decentralized fashion by trades that occur as a result of sellers' \"asking prices\" matching buyers' \"bid prices\" as a result of subjective value judgement in a market economy. Since resources of consumers are limited at any given time, consumers are relegated to satisfying wants in a descending hierarchy and bidding prices relative to the urgency of a variety of wants. This information on relative values is communicated, through \"price signals\", to producers whose resources are also limited. In turn, relative prices for the productive services are established. The interchange of these two sets of prices establish market value, and serve to guide the rationing of resources, distributing income, and allocating resources.\n\nThose goods which command the highest prices (when summed among all individuals) provide an incentive for businesses to provide these goods in a corresponding descending hierarchy of priority. However, the ordering of this hierarchy of wants is not constant. Consumer preferences change. When consumer preferences for a good increase, then bidding pressure raises the price for a particular good as it moves to a higher position in the hierarchy. As a result of higher prices for this good, more productive forces are applied to satisfying the demand driven by the opportunity for higher profits in satisfying this new consumer preference. In other words, the high price sends a \"price signal\" to producers. This causes producers to increase supply, either by the same firms increasing production or new businesses coming into the market, which eventually lowers the price and the profit incentive to increase supplies. Hence, the now lower price provides a price signal to producers to decrease production and, as a result, a surplus is prevented. Since resources are scarce (including labor and capital), supplies of other goods will be diminished as the productive resources are taken from other areas of production to be applied toward increasing output of the good that has risen in the hierarchy of consumer preferences. Also, as resources become more scarce the price increases, which signals to consumers to reduce consumption thereby ensuring that the quantity demanded does not exceed the quantity supplied. It is in this way that the free price system persuades consumers to ration dwindling resources. Hence, supply and demand affect price, while at the same time price affects supply and demand. If prices remain high because increases in supply cannot keep pace with demand, then this also signals other business to provide substitute goods in order to take advantage of profit opportunities.\n\nIndividual employments and incomes are also guided by the price system. Employment will move toward those goods and services that consumers value and away from those with declining importance to consumers as a result of changes in prices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38671390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38671390", "title": "French immigration to Cuba", "text": "French immigration to Cuba\n\nFrench immigration to Cuba began in Cuba already in the eighteenth century, to be strengthened significantly since the nineteenth century. The majority of French people settled in eastern Cuba.\n\nThe first wave of French immigrants to arrive in Cuba were fleeing the Haitian Revolution and the new governmental administration of Haiti after independence was declared. This immigration reached its peak between 1800 and 1809, when more than twenty-seven thousand French of all social classes arrived in the eastern part of Cuba. Many of them emigrated to the city of Santiago de Cuba, which had neither sidewalks nor paved streets, and lacked drinking water, supplies and dwellings for the refugees.\n\nThe newcomers soon recognized the favorable conditions the new land presented. Initially, they worked in the port, and traded with the Catalans who had settled in Santiago. Consequently, the port of Santiago de Cuba saw much more commercial activity. With the resultant increase of the white population of the city, for the first time it had a relative balance between the black and the white populations. An apothecary and shops selling imported comestibles were opened, new government buildings were built, and postal service was expanded.\n\nThe Captaincy General of Cuba of the island approved the growing of coffee and many French-Haitian migrants were used for work in the coffee fields, especially those white French who were considered \"solvent and reliable\". By 1804 there were three thousand men cultivating the land, and agricultural lands were bought, sold and resold while Creole and French investors provided capital for new business ventures that became the economic engine of Santiago.\n\nIn 1807, coffee shipped to the United States and Spain was the principal Cuban export. Sebastián Kindelán y O’Regan, governor of Santiago, reported five hundred thousand coffee plants being cultivated on the island; the crop's yield of ten million pounds that year would be quadrupled in 1810. The beginning of the Peninsular War (1807–1814) between France and Spain caused the Captaincy General of the island to expel Franco-Haitian and French residents, and only those French who were naturalized Spanish citizens and had assimilated into the Spanish culture were allowed to remain. The exact number of French persons expelled from Santiago de Cuba is unknown, most of them moved to the southern United States, especially Louisiana.\n\nIn 1814, when peace between France and Spain was restored, the French immigrants who had left Cuba were allowed to return to the island. They, together with new French immigrants, formed a second wave of French immigration to Santiago de Cuba.\n\nThis second wave promoted an increase in economic activity in the city, and resulted in Santiago becoming a prime exporter of coffee. Sugarcane-raising expanded in the surrounding savannas, while new roads and aqueducts were built to encourage the settling of the Sierra Maestra.\n\nBetween 1818 and 1835 a third wave of immigration to Santiago de Cuba occurred, prompted by a royal order from the Spanish Crown intended to increase the proportion of whites in the Cuban population. While only a quarter of the population were engaged in agriculture, commercial activities were much more robust than before.\n\nSince 1821, only a few years after a treaty was signed in 1817 between Spain and England to abolish the slave trade, this trade had nevertheless increased, and increased exports of sugar, honey, wax, coffee, tobacco and rum made the port of Santiago one of Cuba's busiest. With French investment in exploiting the mines in the area, mining had become a new and important sector in the city's economic development. With the general increase in mercantile activity, many new shops of all sorts were opened and tradesmen found a larger market for their products or labor.\n\nThe fourth and final wave of French immigrants to Santiago de Cuba occurred between 1836 and 1868. In this period over 2200 French settlers emigrated, most of them coming from the Atlantic coast of France. The local economy was strengthened while the immigrants were absorbed into traditional occupations. In 1851, a French-owned steamship line was inaugurated to improve communications between Santiago de Cuba and New York City.\n\nThe civil engineer Jules Sagebien, a French immigrant from Picardy, after making a trip to Europe to learn engineering techniques for the building of railroads, did some technically challenging work for the Santiago de Cuba Railroad, which traverses rugged mountainous terrain. In July 1844, he surveyed the Santiago-Cobre line built to transport ore from the island's only copper mine to the port of Santiago, a railway project for the Eastern Department, the first of its kind in the region, according to historian Laura Cruz Ríos. \n\nCoffee remained the number one crop in the Santiago de Cuba region, exceeding the sugar cane crop in value, until it reached its highest production in the 1840s. Towards the end of this decade, however, coffee production began to decline with the bankruptcy of some of the large landowners; investors then began to direct their capital into copper mining and sugar production. The French still had a presence in diverse sectors of the Cuban economy throughout the 19th century, especially in commercial trade, but also in agriculture, marine shipping, and the professions, including medicine, engineering, law, and pedagogy.\n\nThe number of Cubans of French ancestry remains unknown. In some historical works, the number of French emigrants to Cuba is reported to be over 60,000 during the Haitian Revolution. In those days the total population of Cuba was less than 1,000,0000 and the proportion of whites to blacks was about 50% whites and 50% blacks. This meant that 10–12% of whites were French refugees. On 1 May 2012, the number of registered residents in the French Consulate record was 534, two thirds of them residing in Havana. They were primarily officials of the French Embassy, the Alliance Française and their families, and French expatriates working for French companies operating in Cuba and their families.\n\n"}
{"id": "7414420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7414420", "title": "Gaeltarra Éireann", "text": "Gaeltarra Éireann\n\nGaeltarra Éireann (, meaning \"Gaelic Coal-tar of Ireland\") was an Irish state industrial development agency set up in 1957 specifically for the Gaeltacht, the Irish speaking areas of Ireland. Gaeltarra Éireann followed on from the dedicated government department that had been initiated to coordinate Gaeltacht affairs when the new boundaries were drawn up for the reduced size Gaeltacht in 1956.\n\nGaeltarra's approach to the task at hand was centered on the belief that there had to be some sort of an urban focus in the Gaeltacht. Something that would attract inward industrial investment and keep young people in the area. It created two major industrial estates, one at Na Doirí Beaga in northwestern County Donegal, and another around An Spidéal in southwestern County Galway. Initially, this was controversial, as Croithlí (Donegal) and Tuar Mhic Éadaigh (Mayo) already had successful industries, and were established economic bases. Gaeltarra Éireann stated that it picked these two locations as they were, according to the census, the strongest districts linguistically (in terms of Irish), and they sought to \"raise the flag\" as it were and possibly encourage other people in slightly weaker Gaeltacht areas to continue to speak the language. In terms of creating jobs these schemes were relatively successful. They attracted business into small rural communities on the western fringes of Europe, in areas that had previously been suffering from a long-term economic decline and depopulation.\n\nHowever, it is now viewed that despite all this Gaeltarra Éireann failed in perhaps its most fundamental objective - to safeguard the use of the Irish language as the main community language in the Gaeltacht.\n"}
{"id": "26530002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26530002", "title": "Ghosts in Tibetan culture", "text": "Ghosts in Tibetan culture\n\nThere is widespread belief in ghosts in Tibetan culture. Ghosts are explicitly recognized in the Tibetan Buddhist religion as they were in Indian Buddhism, occupying a distinct but overlapping world to the human one, and feature in many traditional legends.\nWhen a human dies, after a period of uncertainty they may enter the ghost world.\nA hungry ghost (Tibetan: \"yidag\", \"yi-dvags\"; Sanskrit: \"preta\", प्रेत) has a tiny throat and huge stomach, and so can never be satisfied.\nGhosts may be killed with a ritual dagger or caught in a spirit trap and burnt, thus releasing them to be reborn.\nGhosts may also be exorcised, and an annual festival is held throughout Tibet for this purpose.\nSome say that Dorje Shugden, the ghost of a powerful 17th-century monk, is a deity, but the Dalai Lama asserts that he is a wrathful spirit, which has caused a split in the Tibetan exile community.\n\nTibetan Buddhists believe that when a person dies, they enter the intermediate \"Bardo\" state, from which they may be reborn in this world in a human or animal body, in the ghost world in a ghost body, in one of the paradise realms or in one of the hells. But eventually, the person will die in this after-death world and be reborn as a human or other creature unless they achieve \"Nirvana\", where they are beyond all states of embodiment.\n\nHungry ghosts have their own realm depicted on the Bhavacakra and are represented as teardrop or paisley-shaped with bloated stomachs and necks too thin to pass food, so that attempting to eat is also incredibly painful. Some are described as having \"mouths the size of a needle's eye and a stomach the size of a mountain\". This is a metaphor for people futilely attempting to fulfill their illusory physical desires.\nSometime individuals have a predominance of hungry ghost in their makeup. They can never get enough, and are always hungry for more.\nThe Tibetan word for the emotional state of the hungry ghost, \"ser na\", literally means \"yellow nosed\", and could be said to mean \"meanness\" or \"lack of generosity\". The person in this state is constantly seeking to consume and to enrich themselves, but can never be satisfied.\n\nA tulpa is a type of ghost or being that is created through mental effort, purely from the thoughts of its creator. A very skilled Buddhist practitioner or sorcerer may have this ability, and in some cases a Tulpa may be created from the collective thoughts of the villagers. Such a ghost is not self-aware at first, but may gradually acquire awareness and go on to become a normal human being.\n\nThe \"phurba\" (Tibetan: ཕུར་བ, Sanskrit: \"kīla\") is a ritual dagger used by a tantric practitioner to release an evil spirit from its suffering and guide it to a better rebirth. Such a spirit (ghost) is a being which lingers in confusion between different realms. By plunging the dagger into it, it is thrown out of its confusion and gets the chance to be reborn, probably as a lower kind than human.\n\nFamilies often mount ghost-traps on the roofs of their houses, spindle-like contraptions wound with colored yarns.\nA spirit trap may also be hung in a tree. \nThe series of interlocking threads is thought to ensnare the spirit, and is burnt when the job is done.\n\nThe Tibetan religious ceremony 'Gutor' ༼དགུ་གཏོར་༽, literally offering of the 29th, is held on the 29th of the 12th Tibetan month, with its focus on driving out all negativity, including evil spirits and misfortunes of the past year, and starting the new year in a peaceful and auspicious way.\n\nThe temples and monasteries throughout Tibet hold grand religious dance ceremonies, with the largest at Potala Palace in Lhasa. \nFamilies clean their houses on this day, decorate the rooms and eat a special noodle soup called 'Guthuk'. ༼དགུ་ཐུག་༽\nIn the evening, the people carry torches, calling out the words of exorcism.\n\nA story tells of a man who met a ghost while out walking. The ghost started walking with him, which made him very frightened, although he hid his fear and pretended that he too was a ghost. They came to a town. The ghost left the man resting, entered the town and stole the soul of the king's son, tying it up in a yak hair sack. Returning to the man, the ghost left the sack in his care for a while. The man took the sack into the town, where the king was in great alarm because his son was dying. The man promised to revive the boy, conducting rituals and at the same time releasing the boy's soul from the bag. When the boy revived, the king gave the man half of all his property as reward.\n\nDorje Shugden is the ghost of a powerful 17th-century monk who was murdered in his palace in Tibet. His adherents consider that he is a deity. However, in the late 1970s the Dalai Lama reconsidered his faith in Dorje Shugden, and decided that the wrathful spirit was working against him, hampering his goal of seeking autonomy for Tibet with minimal interference from Beijing. This has caused a split between Tibetan exiles, with often bitter arguments between those who follow the Dalai Lama and those who continue to revere Dorje Shugden.\nThe Western Shugden Society is one of these organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "727119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=727119", "title": "Gilbertese language", "text": "Gilbertese language\n\nTaetae ni Kiribati or Gilbertese, also Kiribati (sometimes \"Kiribatese\"), is a Micronesian language of the Austronesian language family. It has a basic verb–object–subject word order.\n\nThe word \"Kiribati\" is the modern rendition for \"Gilberts\", so the name is not usually translated into English. \"Gilberts\" comes from Captain Thomas Gilbert, who, along with Captain John Marshall, was one of the first Europeans to visit the Gilbert Islands in 1788. Some of the islands had been sighted or visited earlier, including by Commodore John Byron, whose ships happened on Nikunau in 1765. Frequenting of the islands by Europeans and Chinese dates from whaling and oil trading from the 1820s, when no doubt Europeans learnt to speak it, as I-Kiribati learnt to speak English and other languages foreign to them. However, it wasn't until Hiram Bingham II took up missionary work on Abaiang in the 1860s that the language began to take on the written form known today. For example, Bingham was the first to translate the Bible into Gilbertese, and wrote several hymn books, dictionaries and commentaries in the language of the Gilbert Islands.\n\nThe official name of the language is now \"te taetae ni Kiribati\", or 'the Kiribati language'.\n\nThe first complete description of this language was in \"Dictionnaire gilbertin–français\" of Father Ernest Sabatier (981 pp, 1954), a Catholic priest. This dictionary was later translated into English by Sister Olivia (with the help of South Pacific Commission).\n\nOver 99% of the 103,000 people living in Kiribati are ethnically I-Kiribati (wholly or partly) and speak Kiribati. Kiribati is also spoken by most inhabitants of Nui (Tuvalu), Rabi Island (Fiji), Mili (Marshall Islands) and some other islands where I-Kiribati have been relocated (Solomon Islands, notably Choiseul Province; and Vanuatu) or emigrated (to New Zealand and Hawaii mainly).\n\nUnlike some other languages in the Pacific region, the Kiribati language is far from extinct, and most speakers use it daily. 97% of those living in Kiribati are able to read in Kiribati, and 80% are able to read English.\n\n\nThe Kiribati language has two main dialects: the Northern and the Southern dialects. The main differences between them are in the pronunciation of some words. The islands of Butaritari and Makin also have their own dialect. It differs from the standard Kiribati in vocabulary and pronunciation.\n\n\n Sometimes when reflecting Proto-Micronesian .<br>\n\nKiribati contrasts 13 consonants and 10 vowels sounds\n\n\nQuantity is distinctive for vowels and nasal consonants but not for the remaining sounds so that \"ana\" /ana/ (third person singular article) contrasts with \"aana\" /aːna/ ('its underside') as well as \"anna\" /anːa/ ('dry land'). Other minimal pairs include:\n\nThe Kiribati language is written in the Latin script and since the 1840s, when Hiram Bingham Jr, a missionary, first translated the Bible into Kiribati. Previously, the language was unwritten. Long vowels and consonants are represented by doubling the character, and a few digraphs are used for the velar nasals (/ŋ ŋː/) and velarized stops (i.e. /pˠ mˠ/). \n\nOne difficulty in translating the Bible was references to words such as \"mountain\", a geographical phenomenon unknown to the people of the islands of Kiribati at the time (heard only in the myths from Samoa). Bingham decided to use \"hilly\", which would be more easily understood. Such adjustments are common to all languages as \"modern\" things require the creation of new words. For example, the Gilbertese word for airplane is \"te wanikiba\", \"the canoe that flies\".\n\nCatholic missionaries arrived at the islands in 1888 and translated the Bible independently of Bingham, resulting in differences (Bingham wrote Jesus as \"Iesu\", while the Catholics wrote \"Ietu\") that would be resolved only in the 20th century. In 1954, Father Ernest Sabatier published the bigger and more accurate Kiribati to French dictionary (translated into English by Sister Olivia): \"Dictionnaire gilbertin–français\", 981 pages (edited by South Pacific Commission in 1971). It remains the only work of importance between the Kiribati and a Western language. It was then reversed by Frédéric Giraldi in 1995, creating the first French to Kiribati dictionary. In addition, a grammar section was added by Father Gratien Bermond (MSC). This dictionary is available at the French National Library (rare language department) and at the headquarters of the Missionaries of the Sacred Heart (MSC), Issoudun.\n\n\n\"Ao ti teuana aia taetae ka-in aonaba ma aia taeka ngkekei. Ao ngke a waerake, ao a kunea te tabo teuana ae aoraoi n te aba are Tina; ao a maeka iai. Ao a i taetae i rouia ni kangai, Ka-raki, ti na karaoi buatua, ao ti na kabuoki raoi. Ao aia atibu boni buatua, ao aia raim boni bitumen. Ao a kangai, Ka-raki, ti na katea ara kawa teuana, ma te taua, ae e na rota karawa taubukina, ao ti na karekea arara ae kakanato; ba ti kawa ni kamaeaki nako aonaba ni kabuta. Ao E ruo Iehova ba E na nora te kawa arei ma te taua arei, ake a katei natiia aomata. Ao E taku Iehova, Noria, te botanaomata ae ti teuana te koraki aei, ao ti teuana aia taetae; ao aei ae a moa ni karaoia: ao ngkai, ane e na aki tauaki mai rouia te b’ai teuana ae a reke nanoia iai ba a na karaoia. Ka-raki, ti na ruo, ao tin a kakaokoroi aia taetae iai, ba a aonga n aki atai nako aia taeka. Ma ngaia are E kamaeia nako Iehova mai iai nako aonaba ni kabuta: ao a toki ni katea te kawa arei. Ma ngaia are e aranaki ka Babera; ba kioina ngke E bita aia taetae ka-in aonaba ni kabaneia iai Iehova: ao E kamaeia nako Iehova mai ai nako aonaba ni kabuta.\"\n\n(Now the whole world had one language and a common speech. As people moved eastward, they found a plain in Shinar and settled there.\n\nThey said to each other, “Come, let’s make bricks and bake them thoroughly.” They used brick instead of stone, and tar for mortar. Then they said, “Come, let us build ourselves a city, with a tower that reaches to the heavens, so that we may make a name for ourselves; otherwise we will be scattered over the face of the whole earth.”\n\nBut the Lord came down to see the city and the tower the people were building. The Lord said, “If as one people speaking the same language they have begun to do this, then nothing they plan to do will be impossible for them. Come, let us go down and confuse their language so they will not understand each other.”\n\nSo the Lord scattered them from there over all the earth, and they stopped building the city. That is why it was called Babel—because there the Lord confused the language of the whole world. From there the Lord scattered them over the face of the whole earth. Book of Genesis 11:1–9)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "446755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446755", "title": "Henry Stephens Salt", "text": "Henry Stephens Salt\n\nHenry Stephens Salt (; 20 September 1851 – 19 April 1939) was an English writer and campaigner for social reform in the fields of prisons, schools, economic institutions, and the treatment of animals. He was a noted ethical vegetarian, anti-vivisectionist, socialist, and pacifist, and was well known as a literary critic, biographer, classical scholar and naturalist. It was Salt who first introduced Mohandas Gandhi to the influential works of Henry David Thoreau, and influenced Gandhi's study of vegetarianism.\n\nSalt is credited with being the first writer to argue explicitly in favour of animal rights, in his \"\" (1894), rather than focusing on improvements to animal welfare. He wrote: \"If we are ever going to do justice to the lower races, we must get rid of the antiquated notion of a 'great gulf' fixed between them and mankind, and must recognize the common bond of humanity that unites all living beings in one universal brotherhood.\"\n\nThe son of a British army colonel, Salt was born in Naini Tal in India in 1851, but returned with his family to England in 1852 while still an infant. He studied at Eton College, and graduated from the University of Cambridge in 1875.\n\nAfter Cambridge, Salt returned to Eton as an assistant schoolmaster to teach classics. Four years later, in 1879, he married the scholar Catherine (Kate)Leigh Joynes, the daughter of a fellow master at Eton. He remained at Eton until 1884, when, inspired by classic ideals and disgusted by his fellow masters' meat-eating habits and reliance on servants, he and Kate moved to a small cottage at Tilford, Surrey where they grew their own vegetables and lived very simply, sustained by a small pension Salt had built up. Salt engrossed himself in writing and began work on the pioneering Humanitarian League.\n\nDuring his lifetime Salt wrote almost 40 books. His first, \"A Plea for Vegetarianism\" (1886) was published by the Vegetarian Society, and in 1890, he produced an acclaimed biography of philosopher Henry David Thoreau, two interests that later led to a friendship with Mahatma Gandhi. He also wrote, in \"On Cambrian and Cumbrian Hills\" (1922), about the need for nature conservation to protect the natural beauty of the British countryside from commercial vandalism.\n\nHis circle of friends included many notable figures from late-19th and early-20th century literary and political life, including writers Algernon Charles Swinburne, John Galsworthy, Thomas Hardy, Rudyard Kipling, Havelock Ellis, Count Leo Tolstoy, William Morris, Peter Kropotkin, Ouida, George Bernard Shaw and Robert Cunninghame-Graham, as well as Labour leader James Keir Hardie and Fabian Society co-founders Hubert Bland and Annie Besant.\n\nSalt formed the Humanitarian League in 1891. Its objectives included the banning of hunting as a sport (in this respect it can be regarded as a fore-runner of the League Against Cruel Sports). In 1914 The League published a whole volume of essays on \"Killing for Sport\", the preface was written by George Bernard Shaw. The book formed in summary form the Humanitarian League's arraignment of blood-sports.\n\nKeith Tester writes that, in 1894, Salt created an \"epistemological break,\" by being the first writer to consider the issue of animal rights explicitly, as opposed to better animal welfare. In \"\", Salt wrote that he wanted to \"set the principle of animals' rights on a consistent and intelligible footing, [and] to show that this principle underlies the various efforts of humanitarian reformers ...\":\n\nEven the leading advocates of animal rights seem to have shrunk from basing their claim on the only argument which can ultimately be held to be a really sufficient one—the assertion that animals, as well as men, though, of course, to a far less extent than men, are possessed of a distinctive individuality, and, therefore, are in justice entitled to live their lives with a due measure of that 'restricted freedom' to which Herbert Spencer alludes.\n\nHe wrote that there is no point in claiming rights for animals if we subordinate their rights to human interests, and he argued against the presumption that a human life necessarily has more value than a nonhuman one:\n\n[The] notion of the life of an animal having 'no moral purpose,' belongs to a class of ideas which cannot possibly be accepted by the advanced humanitarian thought of the present day—it is a purely arbitrary assumption, at variance with our best instincts, at variance with our best science, and absolutely fatal (if the subject be clearly thought out) to any full realization of animals' rights. If we are ever going to do justice to the lower races, we must get rid of the antiquated notion of a 'great gulf' fixed between them and mankind, and must recognize the common bond of humanity that unites all living beings in one universal brotherhood.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26559692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26559692", "title": "History of masturbation", "text": "History of masturbation\n\nThe history of masturbation describes broad changes in society concerning the ethics, social attitudes, scientific study, and artistic depiction of masturbation over the history of human sexuality.\n\nThe sexual stimulation of one's own genitals has been \ninterpreted variously by different religions, and has been the subject of legislation, social controversy, activism, as well as intellectual study in sexology.\nSocial views regarding masturbation taboo have varied greatly in different cultures, and over history.\n\nThere are depictions of male and female masturbation in prehistoric rock paintings around the world. Most early people seem to have connected human sexuality with abundance in nature. A clay figurine of the 4th millennium BC from a temple site on the island of Malta, depicts a woman masturbating. However, in the ancient world depictions of male masturbation are far more common.\n\nFrom the earliest records, the ancient Sumerians had very relaxed attitudes toward sex. The Sumerians widely believed that masturbation enhanced sexual potency, both for men and for women, and they frequently engaged in it, both alone and with their partners. Men would often use \"puru\"-oil, a special oil probably mixed with pulverized iron ore intended to enhance friction. Masturbation was also an act of creation and, in Sumerian mythology, the god Enki was believed to have created the Tigris and Euphrates rivers by masturbating and ejaculating into their empty riverbeds.\n\nMale masturbation was an even more important image in ancient Egypt: when performed by a god it could be considered a creative or magical act: the god Atum was believed to have created the universe by masturbating to ejaculation.\n\nThe ancient Greeks also regarded masturbation as a normal and healthy substitute for other forms of sexual pleasure. Most information about masturbation in ancient Greece comes from surviving works of ancient Greek comedy and pottery. Masturbation is frequently referenced in the surviving comedies of Aristophanes, which are the most important sources of information on ancient Greek views on the subject. In ancient Greek pottery, satyrs are often depicted masturbating.\n\nAccording to the \"Lives and Opinions of Eminent Philosophers\" by the third-century AD biographer Diogenes Laërtius, Diogenes of Sinope, the fourth-century BC Cynic philosopher, often masturbated in public, which was considered scandalous. When people confronted him over this, he would say, \"If only it were as easy to banish hunger by rubbing my belly.\" Diogenes, speaking in jest, credited the god Hermes with its invention: he allegedly took pity on his son Pan, who was pining for Echo but unable to seduce her, and taught him the trick of masturbation in order to relieve his suffering. Pan in his turn taught the habit to young shepherds.\n\nMasturbation is little noted in the sources for ancient Roman sexuality. The poet Martial considers it an inferior form of sexual release resorted to by slaves. Though infrequently mentioned, masturbation was a longstanding theme in Latin satire, appearing in one of the few surviving fragments of Lucilius, Rome's earliest practitioner of the genre. The Romans preferred the left hand for masturbation.\n\nWithin the African Congo Basin, the Aka and Ngandu ethnic groups all lack a word for masturbation in their languages and are confused by the concept of masturbation.\n\nSeveral medical papers were written on insanity as a result of masturbation, and was written as a reason for admission when a person was confined in a hospital. A doctor named J W Robertson tried to describe the differences between different types of masturbation in the year 1898, when addressing the Medical Society of the State of California.\n\nThe first use of the word \"onanism\" to consistently and specifically refer to masturbation is a pamphlet first distributed in London in 1716 and attributed to Dutch theologian Dr. Balthazar Bekker, titled \"Onania, or the Heinous Sin of self-Pollution, And All Its Frightful Consequences, In Both Sexes, Considered: With Spiritual and Physical Advice To Those Who Have Already Injured Themselves By This Abominable Practice.\" It drew on familiar themes of sin and vice, this time in particular against the \"heinous sin\" of \"self-pollution\", with dire warnings that those who so indulged would suffer:\n\nDisturbances of the stomach and digestion, loss of appetite or ravenous hunger, vomiting, nausea, weakening of the organs of breathing, coughing, hoarseness, paralysis, weakening of the organ of generation to the point of impotence, lack of libido, back pain, disorders of the eye and ear, total diminution of bodily powers, paleness, thinness, pimples on the face, decline of intellectual powers, loss of memory, attacks of rage, madness, idiocy, epilepsy, fever and finally suicide.\n\nIncluded were letters and testimonials supposedly from young men ill and dying from the effects of compulsive masturbation. The pamphlet then goes on to recommend as an effective remedy a \"Strengthening Tincture\" at 10 shillings a bottle and a \"Prolific Powder\" at 12 shillings a bag, available from a local shop.\n\"Onania\" was a huge success with over 60 editions published and being translated into several languages.\n\nIn 1743–45, the British physician Robert James published \"A Medicinal Dictionary\", in which he described masturbation as being \"productive of the most deplorable and generally incurable disorders\" and stated that \"there is perhaps no sin productive of so many hideous consequences\".\n\nOne of the many horrified by the descriptions of malady in \"Onania\" was the notable Swiss physician Samuel-Auguste Tissot. In 1760, he published L'Onanisme, his own comprehensive medical treatise on the purported ill-effects of masturbation. Citing case studies of young male masturbators amongst his patients in Lausanne, Switzerland as basis for his reasoning, Tissot argued that semen was an \"essential oil\" and \"stimulus\", the loss of which in great amounts would cause \"a perceptible reduction of strength, of memory and even of reason; blurred vision, all the nervous disorders, all types of gout and rheumatism, weakening of the organs of generation, blood in the urine, disturbance of the appetite, headaches and a great number of other disorders.\"\n\nIn a 17th-century law code for the Puritan colony of New Haven, Connecticut, blasphemers, homosexuals and masturbators were eligible for the death penalty.\n\nThough Tissot's ideas are now considered conjectural at best, his treatise was presented as a scholarly, scientific work in a time when experimental physiology was practically nonexistent. The authority with which the work was subsequently treated – Tissot's arguments were even acknowledged and echoed by luminaries such as Kant and Voltaire – arguably turned the perception of masturbation in Western medicine over the next two centuries into that of a debilitating illness.\n\nIn 1812 Benjamin Rush included \"Of the Morbid State of the Sexual Appetite\" as chapter 18 of his book on diseases of the mind. In it he cites excessive eating, intemperance in drinking, and idleness as causative factors of onanism. Earlier in the book (page 33) he claims there is a \"train of physical and moral evils which this solitary vice fixes upon the body and mind.\" In his charge of mentally ill people he notes three driven to mania by onanism (page 48). In his observation of \"congenital idiotism\" (page 292) he notes, \"The venereal appetite exists in them with great force, and they gratify it after puberty by onanism.\"\n\nBy 1838 Jean Esquirol declared in his \"Des Maladies Mentales\" that masturbation was \"recognized in all countries as a cause of insanity.\"\n\nIn the 1870 book \"A Solemn Appeal Relative to Solitary Vice, and the Abuses and Excesses of the Marriage Relation\", edited by James Springer White, husband of Ellen G. White, we find:\nIf the practice [of self-indulgence] is continued from the age of fifteen and upward, nature will protest against the abuse he has suffered, and continues to suffer, and will make them pay the penalty for the transgression of his laws, especially from the ages of thirty to forty-five, by numerous pains in the system, and various diseases, such as affection of the liver and lungs, neuralgia, rheumatism, affection of the spine, diseased kidneys, and cancerous humors. Some of nature's fine machinery gives way, leaving a heavier task for the remaining to perform, which disorders nature's fine arrangement, and there is often a sudden breaking down of the constitution; and death is the result.\n\nFemales possess less vital force than the other sex, and are deprived very much of the bracing, invigorating air, by their in-door life. The result of self-abuse in them is seen in various diseases, such as catarrh, dropsy, headache, loss of memory and sight, great weakness in the back and loins, affections of the spine, and frequently, inward decay of the head. Cancerous humor, which would lie dormant in the system their lifetime, is inflamed, and commences its eating, destructive work. The mind is often utterly ruined, and insanity supervenes.\nDoctor John Harvey Kellogg was an especially zealous campaigner against masturbation. Kellogg was able to draw upon many medical sources' claims such as \"neither the plague, nor war, nor small-pox, nor similar diseases, have produced results so disastrous to humanity as the pernicious habit of onanism,\" credited to one Dr. Adam Clarke. Kellogg strongly warned against the habit in his own words, claiming of masturbation-related deaths \"such a victim literally dies by his own hand,\" among other condemnations. Kellogg believed the practice of \"solitary-vice\" caused cancer of the womb, urinary diseases, nocturnal emissions, impotence, epilepsy, insanity, and mental and physical debility – \"dimness of vision\" was only briefly mentioned.\nIn \"Plain Facts for Old and Young\", Kellogg issued a warning on the evils of sex. Of the 644 pages, 97 address \"Secret Vice (Solitary Vice or Self-Abuse)\", its symptoms and results. Included are 39 signs indicating someone is masturbating. \nHe recommended, to cure children from this \"solitary vice\", bandaging or tying their hands, covering their genitals with patented cages, sewing the foreskin shut and electrical shock, and circumcision without anesthesia, which would break the habit. In order to prevent it, he advised parents first to teach children to avoid handling their genitalia, and as they get more mature, to inform them \"of the evil consequences\". He also warned parents against \"evil associations\", servants, and \"wicked or ignorant\" nurses who would masturbate children in order to quiet them.\n\nSigmund Freud wrote of the \"disease of masturbation\". \"He was suffering from the effects of masturbation.\" \n\nIn the 1990s, Abd al-Aziz bin Baz, the Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia, argued masturbation causes disruption of the digestive system, inflammation of the testicles, damage to the spine, \"trembling and instability in some parts of the body like the feet\", weakening of the \"cerebral glands\" leading to decreased intellect and even \"mental disorders and insanity\".\n\nImmanuel Kant regarded masturbation as a violation of the moral law. In the \"Metaphysics of Morals\" (1797) he made the \"a posteriori\" argument that 'such an unnatural use of one's sexual attributes' strikes 'everyone upon his thinking of it' as 'a violation of one's duty to himself', and suggested that it was regarded as immoral even to give it its proper name (unlike the case of the similarly undutiful act of suicide). He went on, however, to acknowledge that 'it is not so easy to produce a rational demonstration of the inadmissibility of that unnatural use', but ultimately concluded that its immorality lay in the fact that 'a man gives up his personality … when he uses himself merely as a means for the gratification of an animal drive'.\n\nThe 18th-century philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau saw masturbation as equal to 'mental rape', and discussed it in both and Confessions. He argued that it was the corrupting influence of society that led to such unnatural acts as masturbation and that humans living a simple life amidst nature would never do such things.\n\nThis continued well into the Victorian Era, where such medical censure of masturbation was in line with the widespread social conservatism and opposition to open sexual behavior common at the time.\nIn 1879, Mark Twain wrote a speech titled \"Some Thoughts on the Science of Onanism\" which he ended with the words:\nThere were recommendations to have boys' trousers constructed so that the genitals could not be touched through the pockets, for schoolchildren to be seated at special desks to prevent their crossing their legs in class and for girls to be forbidden from riding horses and bicycles because the sensations these activities produce were considered too similar to masturbation. Boys and young men who nevertheless continued to indulge in the practice were branded as \"weak-minded.\" Many \"remedies\" were devised, including eating a bland, meatless diet. This approach was promoted by Dr. John Harvey Kellogg (inventor of corn flakes) and Rev. Sylvester Graham (inventor of Graham crackers). The medical literature of the times describes procedures for electric shock treatment, infibulation, restraining devices like chastity belts and straitjackets, cauterization or – as a last resort – wholesale surgical excision of the genitals. Routine neonatal circumcision was widely adopted in the United States and the UK at least partly because of its believed preventive effect against masturbation (see also History of male circumcision). In later decades, the more drastic of these measures were increasingly replaced with psychological techniques, such as warnings that masturbation led to blindness, hairy hands or stunted growth. Some of these persist as myths even today. Referring to such viewpoints and treatments, Ollendick and Schroeder stated: \"These are some of the darkest pages of religious and medical history.\"\nIn 1905, Sigmund Freud addressed masturbation in his \"Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality\" and associated it with addictive substances. He described the masturbation of infants at the period when the infant is nursing, at four years of age, and at puberty.\n\nAt the same time, the supposed medical condition of hysteria—from the Greek \"hystera\" or uterus—was being treated by what would now be described as medically administered or medically prescribed masturbation for women. Techniques included use of the earliest vibrators and rubbing the genitals with placebo creams.\n\nIn 1910, the meetings of the Vienna psychoanalytic circle discussed the moral or health effects of masturbation but its publication was suppressed.\n\nMedical attitudes toward masturbation began to change at the beginning of the 20th century when H. Havelock Ellis, in his seminal 1897 work \"Studies in the Psychology of Sex\", questioned Tissot's premises, cheerfully named famous men of the era who masturbated and then set out to disprove (with the work of more recent physicians) each of the claimed diseases of which masturbation was purportedly the cause. \"We reach the conclusion\", he wrote, \"that in the case of moderate masturbation in healthy, well-born individuals, no seriously pernicious results necessarily follow.\"\n\nRobert Baden-Powell, the founder of The Scout Association, incorporated a passage in the 1914 edition of \"Scouting for Boys\" warning against the dangers of masturbation. This passage stated that the individual should run away from the temptation by performing physical activity which was supposed to tire the individual so that masturbation could not be performed. By 1930, however, Dr. F. W. W. Griffin, editor of \"The Scouter,\" had written in a book for Rover Scouts that the temptation to masturbate was \"a quite natural stage of development\" and, citing Ellis' work, held that \"the effort to achieve complete abstinence was a very serious error.\"\n\nConcerning Specific Forms of Masturbation is a 1922 essay by Austrian psychiatrist and psychoanalyst Wilhelm Reich. \nIn the seven and a half page essay Reich accepts the prevalent notions on the roles of unconscious fantasy and the subsequent emerging guilt feelings which he saw as originating from the act itself.\n\nThe works of sexologist Alfred Kinsey during the 1940s and 1950s, most notably the Kinsey Reports, insisted that masturbation was an instinctive behaviour for both males and females, citing the results of Gallup Poll surveys indicating how common it was in the United States. Some critics of this theory held that his research was biased and that the Gallup Poll method was redundant for defining \"natural behavior\".\n\nIn the US masturbation has not been a diagnosable condition since DSM II (1968). The American Medical Association consensually declared masturbation as normal in 1972.\n\nThomas Szasz states the shift in scientific consensus as \"Masturbation: the primary sexual activity of mankind. In the nineteenth century it was a disease; in the twentieth, it's a cure.\"\n\nIn the 1980s Michel Foucault was arguing masturbation taboo was \"rape by the parents of the sexual activity of their children\": \n\nTo intervene in this personal, secret activity, which masturbation was, does not represent something neutral for the parents. It is not only a matter of power, or authority, or ethics; it's also a pleasure.\nIn 1994, when the Surgeon General of the United States, Dr. Joycelyn Elders, mentioned as an aside that it should be mentioned in school curricula that masturbation was safe and healthy, she was forced to resign, with opponents asserting that she was promoting the teaching of \"how\" to masturbate.\n\nWank Week was a controversial season of television programming that was due to be broadcast in the United Kingdom by Channel 4, expected to consist of a series of three documentary programmes about masturbation. However, plans to broadcast it were cancelled in March 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3398339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3398339", "title": "Hiwi people", "text": "Hiwi people\n\nThe Hiwi call themselves the “people of the savannah” for the vast flatlands they inhabit between the Meta and Vichada rivers in Colombia. In Venezuela, the Hiwi live in the states of Apure, Guarico, Bolivar, and Amazonas. Seventeenth- and eighteenth-century historians described the Hiwi as nomadic hunter-gatherers. Their long history of violent conflict, extending well into the twentieth century, has meant dramatic changes in their way of life.\n\nToday, when the Hiwi visit criollo towns, they wear European-style clothing: shirts and pants for the men, and cotton dresses for the women. In their own villages, many continue to wear traditional loincloths made of cloth or of a vegetable bark called marima.\n\nTraditional clothing also includes body ornaments. The Hiwi make necklaces of glass beads as well as shamanic amulet necklaces for ceremonial use, made with animal teeth, hooves, and beaks.\n\nTextile crafts are an important part of their material culture. Using looms, the Hiwi weave high-quality hammocks with moriche or cumare fibers.\n\nHistorically, basketry has been a male occupation among the Hiwi, and the baskets they weave for transporting and storing foodstuffs are decorated with red and black geometric designs. Recently, women have begun to make baskets for commercial sale.\n\nSome Hiwi still make pottery, although far fewer since the introduction of aluminum pots and plastic containers. Traditionally an activity of the dry season, vessels are made by rolling rings of clay over a base. After they dry, they are burned over an open fire and then decorated with vegetable dyes such as cumare and caruto. \n\nDespite a reputation as less than excellent navigators, the Hiwi do make curiaras and oars. The curiaras are made from a tree similar to the cedar. After the bark is removed, they use fire, hatchets, and machetes to shape the wood. From the same wood, they produce oars with round handles and oval paddles. Although made by hand, the completed curiara looks newly manufactured.\n\nThe Hiwi make wind and percussion musical instruments for festivities and ceremonial rituals, such as flutes with three holes made from large deer bones. Pan flutes, made with five or six tubes of caña amarga, often are played with another musical instrument made from the skull and antlers of the deer. \n\nThe maraca, the shaman’s principal musical instrument, is traditionally used for healing. The body of a maraca is made from a dried gourd, which is then painted with geometric patterns. It is often decorated as well with a tuft of curassow feathers.\n\nGuahibo people\n\n"}
{"id": "24503346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24503346", "title": "Immigration to Pakistan", "text": "Immigration to Pakistan\n\nImmigration to Pakistan refers to the settlement of foreign nationals in Pakistan. Immigration policy is overseen by the Interior Minister of Pakistan through the Directorate General Passports. Most immigrants are not eligible for citizenship or permanent residency, unless they are married to a Pakistani citizen or a Commonwealth citizen who has invested a minimum of PKR 5 million in the local economy. \n\nBased on the United Nations report World Population Policies 2005, the total immigrant population in Pakistan was estimated to be 3,254,000, representing 2.1% of the national population, and ranked 13th in the world. According to the United Nations report International Migration Profiles 2002, the population of immigrants in Pakistan was 1,098,110 in 1990 and 1,412,560 in 2000. The \"Express Tribune\" reported in January 2012 that there were 5 million illegal immigrants in Pakistan. Around 2 million were Bangladeshis, 2.5 million were Afghans and the other 0.5 million were from various other areas such as Myanmar, Iraq and Africa. However, the number of Afghan immigrants was reduced to 1.4 million due to UNHCR repatriation.\n\nAs of 2009, 2.1% of the population of Pakistan had foreign origins. However, the number of immigrants population in Pakistan recently grew sharply. Immigrants from South Asia make up a growing proportion of immigrants in Pakistan. The largest immigrant group in Pakistan is Bangladeshis, followed by Afghans, Tajiks, Uzbeks, Turkmens, Indians, Sri Lankan, Burmese and Britons including a sizeable number of those of Pakistani origin. Other expatriate communities in Pakistan are Armenians, Australians, Iranians, Turks, Iraqis, Chinese, Americans, Filipinos, previously Bosnian refugees, and many others. Migrants from different countries of Arab world, especially Egypt, Iraq, Palestine, Syria, Kuwait, Libya, Saudi Arabia, and Yemen, are in the thousands. Nearly all illegal migrants in Pakistan are Muslim refugees and they are accepted by the local population. There is no political support or legislation to deport these refugees from Pakistan.\n\nShaikh Muhammad Feroze, the chairman of the Pakistani Bengali Action Committee, claimed that there were 200 settlements of Bengali-speaking people in Pakistan, of which 132 are in Karachi. They are found in various areas of Pakistan such as Thatta, Badin, Hyderabad, Tando Adam and Lahore.\n\nExperts say that the migration of both Bengalis and Burmese (Rohingya) to Pakistan started in the 1980s and continued until 1998. Large scale Rohingya migration to Karachi made Karachi one of the largest population centres of Rohingyas in the world after Myanmar. The Burmese community of Karachi is spread out over 60 slums in Karachi such as the Burmi Colony in Korangi, Arakanabad, Machchar colony, Bilal colony, Ziaul Haq Colony and Godhra Camp.\n\nThousands of Uyghur Muslims have also migrated to the Gilgit-Baltistan region of Pakistan, fleeing religious and cultural persecution in Xinjiang, China.\n\nAs of 2017, approximately 1.4 million registered Afghan refugees still remain in Pakistan. They are expected to leave Pakistan and return to Afghanistan in the coming years. They are mainly found in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa (KP) and Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) areas, with small numbers in the cities of Karachi and Quetta. Most of this group were born inside Pakistan in the last 30 years and are ethnic Pakhtuns. In addition, about 500 Somalis, 60-80 Iraqi and 20-30 Iranian asylum seekers were reported to be temporarily residing in cities such as Islamabad, Rawalpindi and Karachi. Nearly all of these are asylum seekers waiting to immigrate to Australia, North America, and the European Union. They only stay in Pakistan as visitors because by international law they cannot apply for asylum in the countries that they escaped from.\n\nIn 2012, a Pakistani official claimed that five million illegal aliens live in Pakistan. Since early 2002, Pakistan's government took steps to determine the number of illegal aliens in its country. The National Alien Registration Authority (NARA) started registering illegal aliens in January 2006. According to NARA, there were an estimated 1.8 million illegal aliens in Pakistan's commercial capital Karachi in 2007. Others believe that there may be about 3.35 million illegal immigrants in Pakistan. As of January 2010, the number of illegal aliens in Karachi was estimated to be between 1.6 and 2 million. Thousands of nationals from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, India, Burma, Sri Lanka, Iran, Iraq, Nigeria, Somalia, Jordan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Azerbaijan are illegally living in Karachi. This includes thousands of Muslim students from Thailand, the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia studying in the Pakistani madrasahs, while thousands of women from Bangladesh and Burma are working as maids and prostitutes there; most of them are illegal aliens.\nAccording to some sources, thousands of radicals of Arab origin who entered the country illegally to fight in Afghanistan after the Soviet invasion in 1979, and later against the US-led invasion in October 2001, still remain in the country.\n\nAlthough the presence of illegal aliens in Pakistan is against the law, the Government of Pakistan did not make a serious effort to deport them until January 2010 when Pakistani Interior Minister Rehman Malik asked illegal aliens to either leave or register themselves with the department concerned, as a major crackdown would soon be initiated against them. This action was taken following the recent bomb attack and targeted killings of political activists in the city, against foreign militants operating in Pakistan.\n\nAccording to NARA, there are foreign nationals from over 76 countries, mostly from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Tajikistan, India and Burma illegally living and working in the country as laborers involved in construction businesses and others which require unskilled manpower, whilst most of the illegal immigrants are those who intend to use Pakistan as a transit country in order to immigrate to Western countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18429324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18429324", "title": "Indigenous peoples in Ecuador", "text": "Indigenous peoples in Ecuador\n\nIndigenous peoples in Ecuador, also Native Ecuadorians or Native Americans, are the groups of people who were present in what became Ecuador before the Spanish colonization of the Americas. The term also includes their descendants from the time of the Spanish conquest to the present. Their history, which encompasses the last 11,000 years, reaches into the present; 25 percent of Ecuador's population is of indigenous heritage, while another 70 percent is of mixed indigenous and European heritage.\n\nThe first inhabitants of the Americas migrated from Asia across the Beringia land bridge. The first inhabitants of South America arrived from North America via the Panamanian isthmus.\n\nWhile archaeologists have proposed different temporal models at different times, the schematic currently in use divides prehistoric Ecuador into five major time periods: Lithic, Archaic, Formative, Regional Development, and Integration. These time periods are determined by the cultural development of groups being studied, and are not directly linked to specific dates, e.g. through carbon dating.\n\nThe Lithic period encompasses the earliest stages of development, beginning with the culture that migrated into the American continents and continuing until the Late Pleistocene or Early Holocene. The people of this culture are known as Paleo-Indians, and the end of their era is marked by the extinction of the megafauna they hunted.\n\nThe Archaic period is defined as \"the stage of migratory hunting and gathering cultures continuing into the environmental conditions approximating those of the present.\" During this period, hunters began to subsist on a wider variety of smaller game and increased their gathering activities. They also began domesticating plants such as maize and squash, probably at \"dooryard gardens.\" In the Andean highlands, this period lasted from 7000-3500 BP.\n\nThe Formative Period is characterized by \"the presence of agriculture, or any other subsistence economy of comparable effectiveness, and by the successful integration of such an economy into well-established, sedentary village life.\" In Ecuador, this period is also marked by the establishment of trade networks and the spread of different styles of pottery. It began in about 3500 and ended around 2200 BP.\n\nRegional Development is the period, dating roughly 2200–1300 BP, of the civilizations of the Sierra, described as \"localized but interacting states with complex ideologies, symbol systems, and social forms.\" The people of this period practiced metallurgy, weaving, and ceramics.\n\nThe Integration Period (1450 BP—450 BP) \"is characterized by great cultural uniformity, the development of urban centres, class-based social stratification, and intensive agriculture.\" The Integration Period ends and the historic era begins with the Inca conquest.\n\nThe oldest artifacts discovered in Ecuador are stone implements discovered at 32 Cotton Pre-ceramic (Paleolithic) archaeological sites in the Santa Elena Peninsula. They indicate a hunting and gathering economy, and date from the Late Pleistocene epoch, or about 11,000 years ago. These Paleo-Indians subsisted on the megafauna that inhabited the Americas at the time, which they hunted and processed with stone tools of their own manufacture.\n\nEvidence of Paleoindian hunter-gatherer material culture in other parts of coastal Ecuador is isolated and scattered. Such artifacts have been found in the provinces of Carchi, Imbabura, Pichincha, Cotopaxi, Azuay, and Loja.\n\nDespite the existence of these early coastal settlements, the majority of human settlement occurred in the Sierra (Andean) region, which was quickly populated. One such settlement, remains of which were found at the archaeological site El Inga, was centered at the eastern base of Mount Ilaló, where two basalt flows are located. Due to agricultural disturbances of archaeological remains, it has been difficult to establish a consistent timeline for this site. The oldest artifacts there discovered, however, date to 9,750 BP.\n\nIn the South, archaeological discoveries include stone artifacts and animal remains found in the Cave of Chobshi, located in the \"cantón\" of Sigsig, which date between 10,010 and 7,535 BP. Chobshi also provides evidence of the domestication of the dog. Another site, Cubilán, rests on the border between Azuay and Loja provinces. Scrapers, projectile points, and awls discovered there date between 9,060 and 9,100 BP, while vegetable remains are up to a thousand years older.\n\nIn the Oriente, human settlements have since at least 2450 BP. Settlements that probably date from this period have been found in the provinces of Napo, Pastaza, Sucumbíos, and Orellana. However, most of the evidence recovered in the Oriente suggest a date of settlement later than in the Sierra or the Coast.\n\nThe end of the Ice Age brought changes to the flora and fauna, which led to the extinction of the large game hunted by Paleo-Indians, such as giant sloth, mammoth, and other Pleistocene megafauna. Humans adapted to the new conditions by relying more heavily on farming. The adoption of agriculture as the primary mode of subsistence was gradual, taking up most of the Archaic period. It was accompanied by cultural changes in burial practices, art, and tools.\n\nThe first evidence of agriculture dates anywhere from the Preboreal Holocene (10,000 years ago) to the Atlantic Holocene (6,000 years ago).\n\nSome of the first farmers in Ecuador were the Las Vegas culture of the Santa Elena Peninsula/, who, in addition to making use of the abundant piscine resources, also contributed to the domestication of several beneficial plant species, including squash. They engaged in ritual burial and intensive gardening.\n\nThe Valdivia culture, an outgrowth of the Las Vegas culture, was an important early civilization. While archaeological finds in Brazil and elsewhere have supplanted those at Valdivia as the earliest-known ceramics in the Americas, the culture retains its importance due to its formative role in Amerindian civilization in South America, which is analogous to the role of the Olmeca in Mexico. Most of the ceramic shards from the Early Valdivia date to about 4,450 BP (although some may be from up to 6,250 BP), with artifacts from the later period of the civilization dating from about 3,750 BP. Ceramics were utilitarian, but also produced pieces of very original art, like the small feminine figures referred to as \"Venuses.\"\n\nThe Valdivia people farmed maize, a large bean (now rare) of the Canavalia family, cotton, and \"achira\" (Canna edulis). Indirect evidence suggests that maté, coca, and manioc were also cultivated. They also consumed substantial amounts of fish. Archaeological evidence from the Late Valdivia shows a decline in life expectancy to approximately 21 years. This decline is attributed to an increase in infectious disease, accumulation of waste, water pollution, and a deterioration in diet, all of which are associated with agriculture itself.\n\nIn the Sierra, people cultivated locally developed crops, including tree bean Erythrina edulis, potatoes, quinoa, and tarwi. They also farmed crops that originated in the coastal regions and in the North, including \"ají\", peanuts, beans, and maize. Animal husbandry kept pace with agricultural development, with the domestication of the local animals llama, alpaca, and the guinea pig, as well as the coastal Muscovy duck. The domestication of camelids during this period laid the basis for the pastoral tradition that continues to this day.\n\nIn the Oriente, evidence of maize cultivation discovered at Lake Ayauchi dates from 6250 BP. In Morona-Santiago province, evidence of Regional Development period culture was discovered at the Upano Valley sites of Faldas de Sangay, also known as the Sangay Complex or Huapula, as well as at other nearby sites. These people created ceramics, farmed, and hunted and gathered. They also built large earthen mounds, the smallest of which were used for agriculture or housing, and the largest of which had ceremonial functions. The hundreds of mounds spread over a twelve square kilometer area at Sangay demonstrate that the Oriente was capable of supporting large populations. The lack of evidence of kings or \"principal\" chiefs and also challenges the notion that cultural creations such as monuments require centralized authority.\n\nThe period from 2450 BP—1450 BP is known as the \"Regional Development\" period, and is marked by the development of metalworking skills. The artisans of La Tolita, an island in the estuary of the Santiago River, made alloys of platinum and gold, fashioning the material into miniatures and masks. The Jama-Coaque, Bahía, Guangala, and Jambalí also practiced metalwork in other areas of the Ecuadorian coast. These goods were traded though mercantile networks.\n\nPrior to the invasion of the Inca, the indigenous societies of Ecuador had complex and diverse social, cultural, and economic systems. The ethnic groups of the central Sierra were generally more advanced in organizing farming and commercial activities, and the peoples of the Coast and the Oriente generally followed their lead, coming to specialize in processing local materials into goods for trade.\n\nThe coastal peoples continued the traditions of their predecessors on the Santa Elena peninsula. They include the Machalilla, and later the Chorrera, who refined the ceramicism of the Valdivia culture.\n\nThe economy of the peoples of the Oriente was essentially silvicultural, although horticulture was practiced. They extracted dyes from the achiote plant for face paint, and curare poisons for blowgun darts from various other plants. Complex religious systems developed, many of which incorporated (or perhaps originated from) the use of hallucinogenic plants such as \"Datura\" and \"Banisteriopsis\". They also made coil ceramics.\nIn the Sierra, the most important groups were the Pasto, the Caras, the Panzaleo, the Puruhá, the Cañari, and the Palta. They lived on hillsides, terrace farming maize, quinoa, beans, potatoes and squash, and developed systems of irrigation. Their political organization was a dual system: one of chieftains, the other, a land-holding system called \"curacazgo\", that regulated the planting and harvesting of multiple cycles of crops. While some historians have referred to this system as the \"Kingdom of Quito\", it did not approach the level of political organization of the state.\n\nUsing the system of multicyclic agriculture, which allowed them to have year-long harvests of a wide variety of crops by planting at a variety of altitudes and at different times, the Sierra people flourished. Generally, an ethnic group farmed the mountainside nearest to it. Cities began to specialize in the production of goods, agricultural and otherwise. For this reason, the dry valleys, where cotton, coca, \"ají\" (chili peppers), indigo, and fruits could be grown and where salt could be produced, gained economic importance. Sometimes, tribes farmed lands outside their immediate purview. These goods were then traded in a two-tiered market system.\n\nFree commerce took place in markets called \"tianguez\", and was the means by which ordinary individuals fulfilled their need for tubers, maize, and cotton. Directed commerce, however, was undertaken by specialists called \"mindala\" under the auspices of a \"curaca\". They also exchanged goods at the \"tianguez\", but specialized in products that had ceremonial purposes, such as coca, salt, gold, and beads. Seashells were sometimes used as currency in places such as Pimampiro in the far North. Salt was used in other parts of the Sierra, and in other places where salt was abundant, such as Salinas.\n\nIn this manner, the Pasto and the Caras undertook their existence in the Chota Valley, the Puruhá in the Chanchán riverbasin, and the Panzaleos in the Patate and Guayallabamba valleys.\n\nIn the coastal lowlands, the Esmeralda, the Manta, the Huancavilca, and the Puná were the four major groups. They were seafarers, but also practiced agriculture and trade, both with each other and with peoples of the Sierra. The most important commodity they provided, however, were Spondylus shells, which was a symbol of fertility. In areas such as Guayas and Manabí, small beads called \"chiquira\" were used as currency.\n\nAlso following the lead of the Sierra peoples, the people of the Oriente began congregating around sites where cotton, coca, salt, and beads could be more easily produced for trade. \"Tianguez\" developed in the Amazon forest, and were visited by \"mindala\" from the Sierra.\n\nThe extended family, in which polygyny was common, was the basic unit of society. The extended family group is referred to by the Kichwa word \"ayllu\", although this type of organization predates the arrival of Quechua speakers. Two political systems were built on the basis of the \"ayllu\": the \"curacazgo\" and the \"cacicazgo\". Each \"curacazgo\" is made up of one or more \"ayllu\". The Ecuadorian \"ayllus\", unlike in the Southern Andes, were small, made up of only about 200 people, although the larger ones could reach up to 1,200 members. Each \"ayllu\" had its own authority, although each \"curaca\" also answered to a chief (\"cacique\"), who exercised power over the \"curacazgo\". The \"cacique\"'s power depended on his ability to mobilize manual labor, and was sustained by his ability to distribute highly-valued goods to the members of his \"curaca\".\n\nLocal beliefs and practices co-existed those practiced regionally, which allowed each ethnic group to maintain its own religious identity while interacting, especially commercially, with neighboring groups. Some regional commonalities were the solar calendar, which marked the solstices and equinoxes, and veneration of the sun, moon, and maize.\n\nThe Inca empire expanded into what later became Ecuador during the reign of Pachacuti Inca Yupanqui, who began the northward conquest in 1463. He gave his son Topa control of the army, and Topa conquered the Quitu and continued coastward. Upon arriving, he undertook a sea voyage to either the Galápagos or the Marquesas Islands. Upon his return, he was unable to subdue the people of Puná Island and the Guayas coast. His son Huayna Capac, however, was able to subsequently conquer these peoples, consolidating Ecuador into \"Tawantinsuyu\", the Inca Empire.\n\nMany tribes resisted the imperial encroachment, in particular the Cañari in the south, near modern-day Cuenca, and the Caras and the Quitu in the North. However, the Inca language and social structures came to predominate, particularly in the Sierra. To reduce the opposition to their rule, one of the Inca's tactics included uprooting groups of Quechua-speakers loyal to the empire and resettling them in areas that offered resistance, a system called mitma. The Saraguros in Loja province may have their origin from mitmas relocated from other parts of the Inca Empire.\n\nSome scholars dispute the Inca heritage of indigenous people of Ecuador.\n\nIn 1534, at the time of the arrival of the first columns of Spanish conquistadores, the population of the present day territories of Ecuador is believed to border the figure of one million inhabitants. This might have been a result of epidemics of smallpox and diphtheria that spread in the Andes after the first contacts with Spanish explorers and their livestock. According to early Spanish chronicles the Inca Huayna Capac died of smallpox and then the territories of Collasuyo and central Peru so a period of civil war for the control of the royal household between two brothers each an heir to the dominions of their respective maternal feudal lands.\n\nHuáscar was a prince born to a noble family of Cuzco and Atahualpa was a son from a noble family of the Quitus. The quitus were a tribe that formed an alliance with the Incas during the conquest of Huayna Capac. Most important in this civil war was the participation of Huayna Capac generals on the side of Athaulpa's faction, probably due to the late sovereign wish.\n\nThe 19th century marked a time in history when the need for rubber came into high demand in the world. Many Western Territories including America wanted to produce Rubber Industries in desire to produce economic prosperity. They also expressed an alternative goal, which was to also make better the region they will be in partnership with by improving their land and their economic status as well.\nReasons as to why they decided to obtain partnership with the Amazonian region was for multiple reasons. One of the reasons was that the location was ideal. Two of the most high quality rubber trees grew in that region; the Hevea tree and the Castilloa. tree the Hevea tree was only able to be used 6 month out of the year while the Castilloa was able to be used the whole year. To begin the trading system, the Western territories began to obtain discourse with the Mestizos of the land which were known to be the more prestigious of the different groups residing in Ecuador. They became highly tied into the trading system that was created. There was fast money involved in this system that attracted the Mestizos. Economic prosperity seemed promising. As the rubber industry flourished many other factors came to surface in the system of Rubber production. Because of the high demand for rubber at the time, the Mestizos who became known as the Caucheros (rubber barons) decided that they needed to obtain an abundant amount of workers that would work for low wages. The indigenous population soon came to mind because of a couple of factors. One was due to the fact that they seemed the best fit to perform the labor. They knew the lands on which they would work because of their long history of living on the land. They were well adapted to the climate and familiar with means of survival like hunting and gathering. The enslavement of the Indigenous people soon became an epidemic. Natives were taken from their homes by a group called the Muchachos who were African men hired by the Caucheros to do their dirty work. They were in turn forced to work in the rubber industries by fear and intimidation and were put on a rubber quota with time constraints and were expected to meet the demands.\n\nIf the quotas were not met they were punished. Punishments by the Muchachos were very severe and brutal. Common punishments including flogging, hanging, and being put into a cepo. When the workers were put into a cepo they were chained in pain inflicting positions and left without food and water for an extended amount of time. More extreme punishments included the shooting workers if they tried to escape or became too ill to work. The pay for their hard labor was minimal. They were put on what was called a debt-penoage where they had to work for a long period of time in order to gain funds to pay back debt they owned to the Caucheros for supplies that they were given for their daily tasks such as tools to work, clothes, and food. The low compensation for their labor often led to working their whole life for the rubber barons. They usually received a small item that they were able to keep, like a hammock, and the rest was given straight to the employer. There was very little Government intervention thanks to bribery that got local officials to overlook what was occurring and the fear of being attacked by the Indians. The end of the Rubber Boom was in 1920 when the prices of rubber dropped. The enslavement of the Indigenous people ceased with the end of the rubber boom.\n\nThere is debate about the quantities of indigenous currently inhabiting Ecuador. Some elements of society, most famously the former President León Febres Cordero, have insisted that the indigenous make up no more than two million people. Historian Enrique Ayala Mora, too, estimates that the indigenous population is no more than sixteen percent. Other organizations, such as CONAIE, while giving varying estimates in different years, tend to approximate closer to four million. The discrepancy arises from the ways in which they are counted: \"[d]oes one consider them such on the basis of physical characteristics or whether they live in the Andean Indian world?\"\n\nApproximately 96.4% of Ecuador's Indigenous population are Highland Quichuas living in the valleys of the Sierra region. They are Quichua speakers and include the Caranqui, the Otavaleños, the Cayambi, the Pichincha, the Panzaleo, the Chimbuelo, the Salasacan, the Tungurahua, the Tugua, the Waranka, the Puruhá, the Cañari, and the Saraguro. Linguistic evidence suggests that the Salascan and the Saraguro may be the descendents of Bolivian ethnic groups transplanted to Ecuador in a mitma, or forced migration.\n\nCoastal groups, including the Awá, Chachi, and the Tsáchila, make up 0.24% percent of the indigenous population, while the remaining 3.35 percent live in the Oriente and consist of the Oriente Quichua (the Canelo and the Quijos), the Shuar, the Huaorani, the Siona–Secoya, the Cofán, and the Achuar.\n\nIn 1986, indigenous people formed the first \"truly\" national political organization. The Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (CONAIE) has been the primary political organization ever since, and has been influential in national politics, including the ouster of the presidents Abdalá Bucaram in 1997 and Jamil Mahuad in 2000.\n\nIn 1998, Ecuador signed and ratified the current international law concerning indigenous peoples, Indigenous and Tribal Peoples Convention, 1989. It was adopted in 1989 as the International Labour Organization Convention 169.\n\nThe year 1978 marked the beginning of petroleum production in Ecuador. Texaco is documented to be the primary international oil company that was given permission to export oil from the coast of Ecuador. This company managed the oil operation from 1971 to 1992. The Ecuadorian government along with Texaco began to scout the Oriente in a joint business known as a consortium. Major shipments of oil were put into action in 1972 after the Trans-Ecuadorian Pipeline was finished. In the years of production business in oil production increased rapidly and Ecuador soon became the second largest producer of oil in South America.\n\nTexaco's contract for oil production in Ecuador expired in 1992. PetroEcuador then took over 100% of the oil production management. 1.5 billion barrels of crude oil was reported to have been extracted while under the management of Texaco. There were also reports of 19 billion gallons of waste that had been dumped into the natural environment with the absence of any monitoring or overseeing to prevent damages to the surrounding areas. In addition there was a report of 16.8 million gallons of crude that was dispersed into the environment in relation to spillage out of the Trans-Ecuadorian pipeline.\n\nIn the early 1990s a lawsuit led by Ecuadorian government officials of 1.5 billion dollars was presented against the Texaco company with claims that there was an immense pollution epidemic that led to the demise of many natural environments as well as an increase in human illnesses. A cancer study was conducted in 1994 by the Centre for Economic and Social Rights which found a rise in health concerns in the Ecuadorian region. it was found that there was a notably higher incidence of cancer in women and men in the countries where there was oil production present for over 20 years. Women also reported increased rates in a copious amount of physical ailments such as skin mycosis, sore throat, headaches and gastritis. The primary argument against these findings were that they were weak and biased. Texaco decided on jurisdiction in Ecuador. The case put against Texaco remained in the works for some time. In 2001, Texaco was taken over by Chevron, another oil company, which assumed the liabilities left by the previous production. On February, 2011 Chevron was found guilty after inheriting the case left by Texaco and was said to be required to pay 9 billion dollars in damages. This is known to be one of the largest environmental lawsuits award recorded.\n\nEthnic Wage Gap in Ecuador\n\nEcuador has a history of Spanish colonization of indigenous people that were enslaved, abused, and exploited. Eventually the country adapted the French Neo-Lamarck ideology leading to “mestizaje.” This “mestizaje” began in the sixteenth century where white colonizers began to mix with indigenous to “improve” the indigenous race. Ecuador’s historical background has left the country with a very stratified social environment. This is the nucleus of the stratification of different social classes in Ecuador. There have been many attempts to reduce such stratification such as making indigenous languages official in 1998. The Republic of Ecuador also self claimed itself plurinational and intercultural in 2008. It is essential to understand the causes of such racial inequality in a given society in order to be able to approach the problem. Understanding the root of the problems also allows us to understand the existence or lack of public policy initiatives. Structuralist explanations for such inequality is supported by both the minority and dominant groups. Although 19.5% of Ecuadorians believe the economic inequality between the races is due to insufficient work effort from minorities, 47.0% believe it arises from discrimination.\n\nUnfortunately, the widest gap of income inequality in the world is in Latin America. The difference in economic division across ethnicities is a consequence of human capital and discrimination. It can be concluded through research that indigenous people in Ecuador are predisposed to live in poverty and be discriminated against. The percent of indigenous population in Ecuador that lives in poverty differs by 4.5 times that of the non-indigenous population. Education is one of the greatest factors for such economical inequality in the country. The lack of education for many indigenous people makes it difficult for the ethnic group to overcome such poverty. Unfortunately, the probability of indigenous people to stay in school is very low. It is evident that there is an existing difference in education between the ethnic groups. The indigenous population only has an average of 4.5 years of formal education, while non-indigenous population’s average of years is 8. The minority group has a net secondary school enrollment rate of 14.0% and because of rural residence and work they have a much lower probability of staying in school.\n\nThere is also a drastic social impact on Indigenous people mainly through exclusion. This racism raised the use of certain terminology such as “cholo” and “longo” which are threatening because they are not institutionalized to any official ethnic group. With such unhistorical and unstructured rise to the terminology, the terminology is more flexible when used and persistent. The paternalistic system of ethnic discrimination transitioned to a more democratization of racial relations. Although there are no more “hacienda’s” (working systems where Indians were exploited for labor) and Indians now have a right to vote, there is still an everyday discriminatory challenge. Indians often feel vulnerable and predisposed to physical and verbal attacks, which cause them to be more reserved and avoid contact with whites. An indigenous witness claimed he was told to leave a restaurant because “no Indians [were] admitted to [that] locale”. Racism can be seen such as travelling in public transportation, interactions in public spaces, and the yearning to be white from Indians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5797669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5797669", "title": "International Social Survey Programme", "text": "International Social Survey Programme\n\nThe International Social Survey Programme (ISSP) is a collaboration between different nations conducting surveys covering topics which are useful for social science research. The ISSP researchers develop questions which are meaningful and relevant to all countries which can be expressed in an equal manner in different languages. The results of the surveys provide a cross-national and cross-cultural perspective to individual national studies. Through 2015 58 countries have participated in the ISSP.\n\nThe ISSP was founded in 1984 by research organizations from four countries:\n\nFour different Social Surveys included a common module each year:\n\nEver since social science institutions from 58 different countries included a 15 minute supplement to their national surveys. The membership to the ISSP is institutional and by country. One or more than one institute in a country can co-operate on ISSP research (cf. France and Spain). The common module surveyed by the member institutions also contains an extensive common core of background varibales. The modules focus on one specific topic each year and were planned to be repeated more or less every five to ten years. When it comes to the researchers choice of topics, the relevance of the area of social sciences in the year of the survey is taken into account.\nGiven this, the ISSP deliveres data sets helpful for both Cross-sectional studies and Time series analysis.\nOver time the set of modules has grown towards more diverse topics. The latest additions were Leisure and Sports in 2007 as well as Health and Health Care in 2011.\n\nThe ISSP is a self-funding organisation with an emphasis on democratic decision making stated in its working principles. To accomplish this principle it has set up several groups and committees. These groups either consist of member organizations as a whole or include some particualr social scientists. There are:\nMost of the members of these groups are elected democratically at the General Assembly. These meetings of delegates from every member state of the ISSP are held in May or June in changing locations all around the world. The General Assemblies also serve the function of discussing modules, which are to be completed the same year or begun and surveyed the upcoming one. The delegates also discuss the topics of upcoming modules.\n\nThe ISSP also gives importance to the way member organisation implement their surveys. The organisation´s principles are published in its ethical statement and its working principles.\n\nThe methodological work in the ISSP is coordinated by a Methodology Committee, consisting of seven members elected at the General Meeting. It co-ordinates the work of six groups addressing different areas of cross-cultural methods, all concerned with issues of equivalence: demography, non-response, weighting, mode effects, questionnaire design and translation.\n\nThe datasets from the different modules conducted by participating ISSP member states can be downloaded at the GESIS Archive page. All these links lead to the official GESIS – Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences homepage, where the data is provided openly for research purposes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1236023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1236023", "title": "John Chinaman", "text": "John Chinaman\n\nJohn Chinaman was a stock caricature of a Chinese laborer seen in cartoons of the 19th century. Also referenced by Mark Twain and popular American songs of the period, John Chinaman represented, in western society, a typical persona of China. He was typically depicted with a long queue and wearing a coolie hat.\n\nAmerican political cartoonist Thomas Nast, who often depicted John Chinaman, created a variant, John Confucius, to represent Chinese political figures. \nIn Nast's cartoon \"A Matter of Taste\", published March 15, 1879 (\"seen at right\"), John Confucius expresses disapproval of Senator James G. Blaine for his support of the Chinese Exclusion Act. Blaine is shown dining in \"Kearney's Senatorial Restaurant\"—a reference to Denis Kearney, the leader of a violent anti-Chinese movement in California. John Confucius asks, \"How can Christians stomach such diet?\"\n\nAccording to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\", the term first emerged with British sailors who, uninterested in learning how to pronounce the names of the Chinese stewards, firemen, and sailors who worked as part of their crews, came up with the generic nickname of \"John\". \n\n"}
{"id": "52453451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52453451", "title": "Kadyal", "text": "Kadyal\n\nKadyal (also pronounced as \"Qadiyal\") is a local clan of Toba, Jhelum.\n"}
{"id": "2187343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2187343", "title": "Ken Weaver", "text": "Ken Weaver\n\nKen Weaver (born February 10, 1966) is a former NASCAR driver from Dallas, Texas. He drives the 20 PhoneCo – Industrial Lightspeed Chevrolet in the ARCA stock car series. He ran in NASCAR in 2004 and 2005, before returning to ARCA.\n\nWeaver has 24 career starts in the Truck Series. Running his #20 PhoneCo Chevy, Weaver made his debut in the 2003 race at Mesa Marin Raceway. It was a decent first race, as Weaver started 26th and finished 29th. However, Weaver improved. In three of the next four races, Weaver finished in the top 10, highlighted by a career best of 5th coming at California Speedway and Daytona International Speedway\n\nThose runs earned him a new ride in 2004, driving a Green Light Racing #08 Chevy, with funding from PhoneCo. He had a best of 8th at Texas and by midseason, Weaver was scaled back to a limited schedule. However, Weaver did manage a new career best start of 16th at Milwaukee Mile and finished in the top 10.\n\nWeaver continued to race in the trucks in 2005. This time at Daytona, he scored his 4th career top-10 with a 6th at Daytona. Weaver made three more races in 2005. He did not finish two of the three races, and his best finish was an 8th at Atlanta Motor Speedway.\n\nSince joining the series in 2002, Weaver had been a decent driver, earning mid-pack results. However, recently, in 2005 and 2006, Weaver has improved significantly, highlighted by 15 top 10s and four 2nd-place finishes in 2005. He drove the #20 PhoneCo Dodge for the 2006 season.\n\nKen Weaver purchased Freedom Power Electric in 2006 which provides pre-paid electricity to Texas consumers with credit problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "26862165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26862165", "title": "Küresünni", "text": "Küresünni\n\nKüresünni are an ethnic group of Turkic people who settle in the territory of former Salmas County, Urmia County, Khoy County, Maku County in Iran and Van Province in Turkey. It is believed that they descend from Chepni tribesmen who were settled in the region by the Ottoman Empire to serve against the Qizilbash. Küresünni, from the Shafi'i \"madh'hab\", continue to be fervent Sunnis. In the southwest of Khoy, there are Kurdicized groups of Küresünni Turks.\n\nFollowing their conflict with Kurdish leader Simko Shikak in 1921, a group of Küresünni took refuge in Van Province of Turkey.\n\n"}
{"id": "1395079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1395079", "title": "List of royal crowns", "text": "List of royal crowns\n\nThe following is a list of royal crowns:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7551781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7551781", "title": "Lowell Mill Girls", "text": "Lowell Mill Girls\n\nThe Lowell Mill Girls were young female workers who came to work in industrial corporations in Lowell, Massachusetts, during the Industrial Revolution in the United States. The workers initially recruited by the corporations were daughters of propertied New England farmers, typically between the ages of 15 and 35. By 1840, at the height of the Industrial Revolution, the textile mills had recruited over 8,000 women, who came to make up nearly three-quarters of the mill workforce.\n\nDuring the early period, women came to the mills of their own accord, for various reasons: to help a brother pay for college, for the educational opportunities offered in Lowell, or to earn supplementary income. Francis Cabot Lowell, specifically emphasized the importance of providing housing and a form of education to mirror the boarding schools that were emerging in the 19th century. He also wanted to provide an environment that sharply contrasted the poor conditions of the British Mills. While their wages were only half of what men were paid, many women able to attain economic independence for the first time, free from controlling fathers and husbands. On average, the Lowell Mill Girls earned between three and four dollars per week. The cost of boarding ranged between seventy-five cents and $1.25, leaving a portion of their pay to themselves. As a result, while factory life would soon come to be viewed as oppressive, it enabled these women to challenge gender stereotypes. Women were also hired because some factory owners, such as Lowell, were less inclined to hire children for this lesser pay. \n\nAs the nature of the new \"factory system\" became clear, however, many women joined the broader American labor movement, to protest the dramatic social changes of the Industrial Revolution. While they decried the deteriorating factory conditions, worker unrest in the 1840s was directed mainly against the loss of control over economic life. This loss of control, which came with the dependence on the corporations for a wage, was experienced as an attack on their dignity and independence. Though they lost strike after strike, Labor historian Philip Foner noted, observed, “they succeeded in raising serious questions about woman’s so-called ‘place’.”\n\nIn 1845, after a number of protests and strikes, many operatives came together to form the first union of working women in the United States, the Lowell Female Labor Reform Association. The Association adopted a newspaper called the \"Voice of Industry\", in which workers published sharp critiques of the new industrialism. The \"Voice\" stood in sharp contrast to other literary magazines published by female operatives, such as the \"Lowell Offering\", which painted a sanguine picture of life in the mills.\n\nIn 1813, businessman Francis Cabot Lowell formed a company, the Boston Manufacturing Company, and built a textile mill next to the Charles River in Waltham, Massachusetts. Unlike the earlier Rhode Island System, where only carding and spinning were done in a factory while the weaving was often put out to neighboring farms to be done by hand, the Waltham mill was the first integrated mill in the United States, transforming raw cotton into cotton cloth in one building.\n\nIn 1821, Francis C. Lowell's business associates, looking to expand the Waltham textile operations, purchased land around the Pawtucket Falls on the Merrimack River in East Chelmsford. Incorporated as the Town of Lowell in 1826, by 1840, the textile mills employed almost 8,000 workers — mostly women between the ages of 15 and 35.\n\nThe \"City of Spindles\", as Lowell came to be known, quickly became the center of the Industrial Revolution in America. New, large scale machinery, which had come to dominate the production of cloth by 1840, was being rapidly developed in lockstep with the equally new ways of organizing workers for mass production. Together, these mutually reinforcing technological and social changes produced staggering increases: between 1840 and 1860, the number of spindles in use went from 2.25 million to almost 5.25 million; bales of cotton used from 300,000 to nearly 1 million, and the number of workers from 72,000 to nearly 122,000.\n\nThis tremendous growth translated directly into large profits for the textile corporations: between 1846 and 1850, for instance, the dividends of the Boston-based investors, the group of textile companies that founded Lowell, averaged 14% per year. Most corporations recorded similarly high profits during this period.\n\nThe social position of the factory girls had been degraded considerably in France and England. In her autobiography, Harriet Hanson Robinson (who worked in the Lowell mills from 1834–1848) suggests that \"It was to overcome this prejudice that such high wages had been offered to women that they might be induced to become mill girls, in spite of the opprobrium that still clung to this degrading occupation.…\" \n\nThe Lowell System combined large-scale mechanization with an attempt to improve the stature of its female workforce and workers. A few girls who came with their mothers or older sisters were as young as ten years old, some were middle-aged, but the average age was about 24. Usually hired for contracts of one year (the average stay was about four years), new employees were given assorted tasks as spare hands and paid a fixed daily wage while more experienced loom operators would be paid by the piece. They were paired with more experienced women, who trained them in the ways of the factory.\n\nConditions in the Lowell mills were severe by modern American standards. Employees worked from 5:00 am until 7:00 pm, for an average 73 hours per week. Each room usually had 80 women working at machines, with two male overseers managing the operation. The noise of the machines was described by one worker as \"something frightful and infernal\", and although the rooms were hot, windows were often kept closed during the summer so that conditions for thread work remained optimal. The air, meanwhile, was filled with particles of thread and cloth.\n\nCharles Dickens, who visited in 1842, remarked favorably on the conditions: \"I cannot recall or separate one young face that gave me a painful impression; not one young girl whom, assuming it to be matter of necessity that she should gain her daily bread by the labour of her hands, I would have removed from those works if I had had the power.\" However, there was concern among many workers that foreign visitors were being presented with a sanitized view of the mills, by textile corporations who were trading on the image of the 'literary operative' to mask the grim realities of factory life. \"Very pretty picture,\" wrote an operative named Juliana in the \"Voice of Industry\", responding to a rosy account of life and learning in the mills, \"but we who work in the factory know the sober reality to be quite another thing altogether.\" The \"sober reality\" was twelve to fourteen hours of dreary, exhausting work, which many workers experienced as hostile to intellectual development. \n\nThe investors or factory owners built hundreds of boarding houses near the mills, where textile workers lived year-round. A curfew of 10:00 pm was common, and men were generally not allowed inside. About 26 women lived in each boarding house, with up to six sharing a bedroom. One worker described her quarters as \"a small, comfortless, half-ventilated apartment containing some half a dozen occupants\". Life in these boarding houses was typically strict. The houses were often run by widows who kept a close eye on the workers and made church attendance mandatory for all of the girls. \n\nTrips away from the boarding house were uncommon; the Lowell girls worked and ate together. However, half-days and short paid vacations were possible due to the nature of the piece-work; one girl would work the machines of another in addition to her own such that no wages would be lost. These close quarters fostered community as well as resentment. Newcomers were mentored by older women in areas such as dress, speech, behavior, and the general ways of the community. The women became very close with one another due to the extensive time they spent together both during work and after work when they would engage in cultural activities, such as music and literature. \n\nWorkers often recruited their friends or relatives to the factories, creating a familial atmosphere among many of the rank and file. The Lowell girls were expected to attend church and demonstrate morals befitting proper society. The 1848 \"Handbook to Lowell\" noted that the company would \"not employ anyone who is habitually absent from public worship on the Sabbath, or known to be guilty of immorality\".\n\nAs for many young women, the allure of Lowell was in the opportunities afforded for further study and learning. Most had already completed some measure of formal education and were resolutely bent on self-improvement. Upon their arrival, they found a vibrant, lively working-class intellectual culture: workers read voraciously in Lowell's city library and reading rooms and subscribed to the large, informal \"circulating libraries\" which trafficked in novels. Many even pursued literary composition. Defying factory rules, operatives would affix verses to their spinning frames, \"to train their memories\", and pin-up mathematical problems in the rooms where they worked. In the evenings, many enrolled in courses offered by the mills and attended public lectures at the Lyceum, a theatre built at company expense (offering 25 lectures per season for 25 cents). The \"Voice of Industry\" is alive with notices for upcoming lectures, courses, and meetings on topics ranging from astronomy to music. (\"Lectures and Learning\", \"Voice of Industry\")\n\nThe corporations happily publicized the efforts of these \"literary mill girls\", boasting that they were the \"most superior class of factory operative\", impressing foreign visitors. But this masked the bitter opposition of many workers to the 12–14 hours of exhausting, monotonous work, which they saw was corrosive to their desire to learn. As one operative asked in the\"Voice\", \"who, after thirteen hours of steady application to monotonous work, can sit down and apply her mind to deep and long-continued thought?\" Another Lowell operative expressed a similar view: \"I well remember the chagrin I often felt when attending lectures, to find myself unable to keep awake...I am sure few possessed a more ardent desire for knowledge than I did, but such was the effect of the long hour system, that my chief delight was, after the evening meal, to place my aching feet in an easy position, and read a novel.\"\n\nIn October 1840, the Reverend Abel Charles Thomas of the First Universalist Church organized a monthly publication by and for the Lowell girls. As the magazine grew in popularity, women contributed poems, ballads, essays, and fiction – often using their characters to report on conditions and situations in their lives.\n\nThe \"Offering\"s contents were by turns serious and farcical. In a letter in the first issue, \"A Letter about Old Maids\", the author suggested that \"sisters, spinsters, lay-nuns, & c\" were an essential component of God's \"wise design\". Later issues – particularly in the wake of labor unrest in the factories – included an article about the value of organizing and an essay about suicide among the Lowell girls.\n\nThe initial effort of the investors and managers to recruit female textile workers brought generous wages for the time (three to five dollars per week), but with the economic depression of the early 1830s, the Board of Directors decided to and proposed a reduction in wages. This, in turn, led to organized \"turn-outs\" or strikes.\n\nIn February 1834, the Board of Directors of Lowell's textile mills requested a 15% wage reduction, to go into effect on March 1. After a series of meetings, the female textile workers organized a \"turn-out\" or strike. The women involved in \"turn-out\" immediately withdrew their savings, causing \"a run\" on two local banks.\n\nThe strike failed and within days the protesters had all returned to work at reduced pay or left town, but the \"turn-out\" or strike was an indication of the determination among the Lowell female textile workers to take labor action. This dismayed the agents of the factories, who portrayed the turnout as a betrayal of femininity. William Austin, agent of the Lawrence Manufacturing Company, wrote to his Board of Directors, \"notwithstanding the friendly and disinterested advice which has been on all proper communicated to the girls of the Lawrence mills a spirit of evil omen  … has prevailed, and overcome the judgment and discretion of too many\".\n\nAgain, in response to a severe economic depression and the high costs of living, in January 1836, the Board of Directors of Lowell's textile mills absorbed an increase in the textile workers' rent to help in the crisis faced by the company boarding house keepers. As the economic calamity continued in October 1836, the Directors proposed an additional rent hike to be paid by the textile workers living in the company boarding houses. The female textile workers responded immediately in protest by forming the Factory Girls' Association and organizing a \"turn-out\" or strike.\nHarriet Hanson Robinson, an eleven-year-old doffer at the time of the strike, recalled in her memoirs: \"One of the girls stood on a pump and gave vent to the feelings of her companions in a neat speech, declaring that it was their duty to resist all attempts at cutting down the wages. This was the first time a woman had spoken in public in Lowell, and the event caused surprise and consternation among her audience.\"\n\nThis \"turn-out\" or strike attracted over 1,500 workers – nearly twice the number two years previously - causing Lowell's textile mills to run far below capacity. Unlike the \"turn-out\" or strike in 1834, in 1836 there was enormous community support for the striking female textile workers. The proposed rent hike was seen as a violation of the written contract between the employers and the employees. The \"turn-out\" persisted for weeks and eventually the Board of Directors of Lowell's textile mills rescinded the rent hike. Although the \"turn-out\" was a success, the weakness of the system was evident, and worsened further in the Panic of 1837.\n\nThe sense of community that arose from working and living together contributed directly to the energy and growth of the first union of women workers, the Lowell Female Labor Reform Association. Started by 12 operatives in January 1845, its membership grew to 500 within six months, and continued to expand rapidly. The Association was run completely by the women themselves: they elected their own officers and held their own meetings; they helped organize the city's female workers, and set up branches in other mill towns. They organized fairs, parties, and social gatherings. Unlike many middle-class women activists, the operatives found considerable support from working-class men who welcomed them into their reform organizations and advocated for their treatment as equals.\n\nOne of its first actions was to send petitions signed by thousands of textile workers to the Massachusetts General Court demanding a ten-hour work day. In response, the Massachusetts Legislature established a committee chaired by William Schouler, Representative from Lowell, to investigate and hold public hearings, during which workers testified about conditions in the factories and the physical demands of their twelve-hour days. These were the first investigations into labor conditions by a governmental body in the United States. The 1845 Legislative Committee determined that it was not state legislature's responsibility to control the hours of work. The LFLRA called its chairman, William Schouler, a \"tool\" and worked to defeat him in his next campaign for the State Legislature. A complex election Schouler lost to another Whig candidate over the issue of railroads. The impact of working men [Democrats] and working women [non-voting] was very limited. The next year Schouler was re-elected to the State Legislature.\n\nThe Lowell female textile workers continued to petition the Massachusetts Legislature and legislative committee hearings became an annual event. Although the initial push for a ten-hour workday was unsuccessful, the LFLRA continued to grow, affiliating with the New England Workingmen's Association and publishing articles in that organization's \"Voice of Industry\", a pro-labor newspaper. This direct pressure forced the Board of Directors of Lowell's textile mills to reduce the workday by 30 minutes in 1847. The FLRA's organizing efforts spilled over into other nearby towns. In 1847, New Hampshire became the first state to pass a law for a ten-hour workday, although there was no enforcement and workers were often requested to work longer days. By 1848, the LFLRA dissolved as a labor reform organization. Lowell textile workers continued to petition and pressure for improved working conditions, and in 1853, the Lowell corporations reduced the workday to eleven hours.\n\nThe New England textile industry was rapidly expanding in the 1850s and 1860s. Unable to recruit enough Yankee women to fill all the new jobs, to supplement the workforce textile managers turned to survivors of the Great Irish Famine who had recently immigrated to the United States in large numbers. During the Civil War, many of Lowell's cotton mills closed, unable to acquire bales of raw cotton from the South. After the war, the textile mills reopened, recruiting French Canadian men and women. Although large numbers of Irish and French Canadian immigrants moved to Lowell to work in the textile mills, Yankee women still dominated the workforce until the mid-1880s.\n\nThe Lowell girls' organizing efforts were notable not only for the \"unfeminine\" participation of women, but also for the political framework used to appeal to the public. Framing their struggle for shorter work days and better pay as a matter of rights and personal dignity, they sought to place themselves in the larger context of the American Revolution. During the 1834 \"turn-out\" or strike – they warned that \"the oppressing hand of avarice would enslave us,\" the women included a poem which read:\n\n<poem>\nLet oppression shrug her shoulders,\nAnd a haughty tyrant frown,\nAnd little upstart Ignorance,\nIn mockery look down.\nYet I value not the feeble threats\nOf Tories in disguise,\nWhile the flag of Independence\nO'er our noble nation flies.</poem>\n\nIn the 1836 strike, this theme returned in a protest song:\n\n<poem>\nOh! isn't it a pity, such a pretty girl as I\nShould be sent to the factory to pine away and die?\nOh! I cannot be a slave, I will not be a slave,\nFor I'm so fond of liberty,\nThat I cannot be a slave.</poem>\n\nThe most striking example of this political overtone can be found in a series of tracts published by the Female Labor Reform Association entitled \"Factory Tracts\". In the first of these, subtitled \"Factory Life As It Is\", the author proclaims \"that our rights cannot be trampled upon with impunity; that we WILL not longer submit to that arbitrary power which has for the last ten years been so abundantly exercised over us.\"\n\nThis conceptualization of labor activity as philosophically linked with the American project in democracy has been instrumental for other labor organizing campaigns, as noted frequently by MIT professor and social critic Noam Chomsky, who has cited this extended quote from the Lowell Mill Girls on the topic of wage slavery:\n\n\n\nistory\" 16 (1975): 99-116. Available online through Lemelson Center, Smithsonian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10782758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10782758", "title": "Marshall Cassidy", "text": "Marshall Cassidy\n\nMarshall Cassidy (born 1945) is an American Thoroughbred racing official based in New York State, and a former public address announcer and sportscaster. Cassidy is currently a patrol and placing judge for the New York Racing Association, and has also served as an alternate steward.\n\nCassidy is best known for the 18 years he spent as one of the race callers for NYRA, at Aqueduct Racetrack, Belmont Park and Saratoga Race Course. He worked as backup track announcer to Dave Johnson and Chic Anderson. Cassidy became lead announcer after the death of Anderson in March 1979.\n\nCassidy was the most prominent announcer in racing in the early to mid-1980s, not only for his on-track work but also as a sportscaster calling races for WCBS radio, CBS television, ABC television, NBC television and ESPN television. He was best known for his accuracy, precise diction and upbeat delivery, especially early in his career when calling a close race as the horses ran down the stretch.\n\nCassidy remained the lead race caller for NYRA until 1990, when he was replaced by track announcer Tom Durkin. Cassidy called the fourth race at Saratoga Race Course on September 1, 2008. The race was won by Tommasi.\n\nHe is part of a well-known family of racing officials. His maternal grandfather, Marshall Whiting Cassidy, was a race starter and later steward who eventually became racing director for NYRA’s predecessor agencies, and later executive director of The Jockey Club.\n\nThe current Marshall Cassidy's maternal great-grandfather, Marshall (Mars) Cassidy, was also a fixture in New York racing as a race starter and the first to use a barrier to start a race.\n\nGeorge Cassidy, the grand-uncle of the current Marshall Cassidy, was a race starter for some five decades (mostly at the NYRA tracks) until he retired late December 1980.\n"}
{"id": "50826840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50826840", "title": "McClelland Irish Library", "text": "McClelland Irish Library\n\nThe McClelland Irish Library is a Library situated in and owned by the city of Phoenix, Arizona holding a collection of works related to Celtic culture and genealogy. The building housing the library cost $5 million to build and is modeled after a Norman castle. The library holds over 6000 books about Irish culture and a collection of genealogy resources, and operates in conjunction with Phoenix Public Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27509349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27509349", "title": "Military branch", "text": "Military branch\n\nMilitary branch (also service branch or armed service) is according to common standard the subdivision of the national armed forces of a sovereign nation or state.\n\nIn classical NATO terminology, the three basic environmental commands military branches are the Army, Air Force, and Navy.\n\nCountries which do not have access to any of the brown water, green water, blue water or any oceans generally do not have a national navy.\n\nIn some countries there might be other military branches. In addition to the above-mentioned military branches, examples are:\n\n\nThe military branches came into being in line with military technical progress and have been developed permanently. With that background, the air force was established early in the 20th century as one of the latest armed service.\n\nThe army is traditionally the oldest – and in many countries the biggest armed service.\n\nThe Canadian Armed Forces is the unified armed forces of Canada. While it has three environmental commands - namely Royal Canadian Navy, Canadian Army and Royal Canadian Air Force - it remains a single military service.\n\n\"Branch of service\" (also \"branch of military service\" or \"branch of armed service\") refers, according to NATO standards, to a branch, employment of combined forces or parts of a service, below the level of service, military serviced or armed service.\n"}
{"id": "48602497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48602497", "title": "Monument of the Four Moors", "text": "Monument of the Four Moors\n\nThe Monument of the Four Moors () is located in Livorno, Italy. It was completed in 1626 to commemorate the victories of Ferdinand I of Tuscany over the Ottomans.\n\nIt is the most famous monument of Livorno and is located in Piazza Micheli. Created by Pietro Tacca, the monument takes its name from the four bronze statues of \"Moorish\" slaves that are found at the base of an earlier work consisting of the statue of Ferdinando I and its monumental pedestal.\n\nIn 1617, Cosimo II contracted sculptor Pietro Tacca to create the monument to commemorate his father, Ferdinando I. The completed monument was installed in Livorno in 1626. It features four bronze statues of enslaved prisoners chained at the base of a statue of Ferdinando I which had been commissioned at an earlier date. The physical characteristics of three of the statues represent people of the southern Mediterranean coast while the fourth statue has characteristics of a black African.\n\nAlthough the four chained prisoners are meant to represent the victories of Ferdinando I over the Ottomans, there may also be a different interpretation due to the presence of the statue with the black African characteristics; Ferdinando II, grandson of Ferdinando I, completed the monument and he may also have been involved in slave trade activities in West Africa in the 1660s, in cooperation with the Genoans. \n\nThe four Moors symbolise the four corners of the world. Tacca's design of the Moors monument is assumed to have been influenced by three columns in the shape of African men supporting a balcony in Via Carriona in Carrara. The three sculptures are depicted as suffering from the weight they bear supporting the iron structure.\n\nThe monument of the four Moors influenced sculptural design for several decades. A fountain in Marino features four statues of similarly chained prisoners, two of whom possess black African characteristics. The structure was constructed between 1632–1642 to commemorate Marcantonio Colonna's participation in the battle of Lepanto in 1571 which led to the defeat of the Ottomans. \n\nThe monument of the four Moors also influenced Bernini's creation of the \"Fountain of the Four Rivers\" (\"Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi\"). Bernini may have also been influenced by the Marino monument in his design of the Fountain.\n\nThe ostentatious design of the tomb of Doge Giovanni Pesaro, which was built in 1669 in Venice, and is found in Santa Maria Gloriosa dei Frari close to the Pesaro Altarpiece, was perhaps strongly influenced by Tacca's monument of the four Moors.\n"}
{"id": "314392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314392", "title": "New Woman", "text": "New Woman\n\nThe New Woman was a feminist ideal that emerged in the late nineteenth century and had a profound influence on feminism well into the twentieth century. The term \"New Woman\" was coined by writer Charles Reade in his novel \"A Woman Hater\", originally published serially in \"Blackwood's Magazine\" and in three volumes in 1877. Of particular interest in the context are Chapters XIV and XV in volume two, which made the case for the equal treatment of women and arguably sparked off the whole Women's Movement in the latter part of the nineteenth century.\n\nIn 1894, Irish writer Sarah Grand used the term \"new woman\" in an influential article, to refer to independent women seeking radical change, and in response the English writer 'Ouida' (Maria Louisa Rame) used the term as the title of a follow-up article. The term was further popularized by British-American writer Henry James, who used it to describe the growth in the number of feminist, educated, independent career women in Europe and the United States. Independence was not simply a matter of the mind: it also involved physical changes in activity and dress, as activities such as bicycling expanded women's ability to engage with a broader more active world.\n\nThe New Woman pushed the limits set by a male-dominated society, especially as modeled in the plays of Norwegian Henrik Ibsen (1828–1906).\n\nWriter Henry James was among the authors who popularized the term \"New Woman\", a figure who was represented in the heroines of his novels—among them the title character of the novella \"Daisy Miller\" (serialized 1878), and Isabel Archer in \"Portrait of a Lady\" (serialized 1880–81). According to historian Ruth Bordin, the term New Woman was \n\nThe \"New Woman\" was also a nickname given to Ella Hepworth Dixon, the English author of the novel \"The Story of a Modern Woman\".\n\nAlthough the New Woman was becoming a more active participant in life as a member of society and the workforce, she was most often depicted exerting her autonomy in the domestic and private spheres in literature, theatre, and other artistic representations. The 19th-century suffragette movement to gain women's democratic rights was the most significant influence on the New Woman. Education and employment opportunities for women were increasing as western countries became more urban and industrialized. The \"pink-collar\" workforce gave women a foothold in the business and institutional sphere. In 1870, women in the professions comprised only 6.4 percent of the United States' non-agricultural workforce; by 1910, that figure had risen to 10 percent, then to 13.3 percent in 1920.\n\nMore women were winning the right to attend university or college. Some were obtaining a professional education and becoming lawyers, doctors, journalists, and professors, often at prestigious all-female colleges such as the Seven Sisters schools: Barnard, Bryn Mawr, Mount Holyoke, Radcliffe, Smith, Vassar, and Wellesley. The New Woman in the United States was participating in post-secondary education in larger numbers by the turn of the 20th century. Alice Freeman Palmer became Wellesley's first woman president in 1881, while Mount Holyoke had elected female leadership since its founding in 1837.\n\nAutonomy was a radical goal for women at the end of the 19th century. It was historically a truism that women were always legally and economically dependent on their husband, male relatives, or social and charitable institutions. The emergence of education and career opportunities for women in the late 19th century, as well as new legal rights to property (although not yet the vote), meant that they stepped into a new position of freedom and choice when it came to marital and sexual partners. The New Woman placed great importance on her sexual autonomy, but that was difficult to put into practice as society still voiced loud disapproval of any sign of female licentiousness. For women in the Victorian era, any sexual activity outside of marriage was judged to be immoral. Divorce law changes during the late 19th century gave rise to a New Woman who could survive a divorce with her economic independence intact, and an increasing number of divorced women remarried. Maintaining social respectability while exercising legal rights still judged to be immoral by many was a challenge for the New Woman: \n\nIt was clear in the novels of Henry James that however free his heroines felt to exercise their intellectual and sexual autonomy, they ultimately paid a price for their choices.\n\nSome admirers of the New Woman trend found freedom to engage in lesbian relationships through their networking in women's groups. It has been said that for some of them, \"loving other women became a way to escape what they saw as the probabilities of male domination inherent in a heterosexual relationship\". For others, it may have been the case that economic independence meant that they were not answerable to a guardian for their sexual or other relationship choices, and they exercised that new freedom.\n\nThe New Woman was a result of the growing respectability of postsecondary education and employment for women who belonged to the privileged upper classes of society. University education itself was still a badge of affluence for men at the turn of the 20th century, and fewer than 10 percent of people in the United States had a postsecondary education during the era.\n\nThe women entering universities generally belonged to the white middle class. Consequentially, the working class, people of color, and immigrants were often left behind in the race to achieve this new feminist model. Woman writers belonging to these marginalized communities often critiqued the way in which their newfound freedom regarding their gender came at the expense of their race, ethnicity, or class. Although they acknowledged and respected the independence of the New Woman, they could not ignore the issue that the standards for a New Woman of the Progressive Era could, for the most part, only be attained by white middle class women.\n\nLiterary discussions of the expanding potential for women in English society date back at least to Maria Edgeworth's \"Belinda\" (1801) and Elizabeth Barrett's \"Aurora Leigh\" (1856), which explored a woman's plight between conventional marriage and the radical possibility that a woman could become an independent artist. In drama, the late nineteenth century saw such \"New Woman\" plays as Henrik Ibsen's \"A Doll's House\" (1879) and \"Hedda Gabler\" (1890), Henry Arthur Jones's play \"The Case of Rebellious Susan\" (1894) and George Bernard Shaw's controversial \"Mrs. Warren's Profession\" (1893) and \"Candida\" (1898). \nAccording to a joke by Max Beerbohm (1872–1956), \"The New Woman sprang fully armed from Ibsen's brain\" (an allusion to the birth of Athena).\n\nBram Stoker's Dracula makes prominent mention of the New Woman in its pages, with its two main female characters discussing the changing roles of women and the New Woman in particular. Mina Harker goes on to embody several characteristics of the New Woman, employing skills such as typing and deductive reasoning, to the amusement of the older male characters. Lucy Westrenra wonders if the New Woman could marry several men at once, which shocks her friend, Mina. Feminist analyses of \"Dracula\" regard male anxiety about the Woman Question and female sexuality as central to the book.\n\nIn fiction, New Woman writers included Olive Schreiner, Annie Sophie Cory (Victoria Cross), Sarah Grand, Mona Caird, George Egerton, Ella D'Arcy and Ella Hepworth Dixon. Some examples of New Woman literature are Victoria Cross's \"Anna Lombard\" (1901), Dixon's \"The Story of a Modern Woman\" and H. G. Wells's \"Ann Veronica\" (1909).\n\nKate Chopin's \"The Awakening\" (1899) also deserves mention, especially within the context of narratives derived from Flaubert's \"Madame Bovary\" (1856), both of which chronicle a woman's doomed search for independence and self-realization through sexual experimentation.\n\nThe emergence of the fashion-oriented and party-going flapper in the 1920s marks the end of the New Woman era (now also known as First-wave feminism).\n\nWomen artists became part of professional enterprises, including founding their own art associations. Artwork made by women was considered to be inferior, and to help overcome that stereotype women became \"increasingly vocal and confident\" in promoting women's work, and thus became part of the emerging image of the educated, modern and freer \"New Woman\".\n\nIn the late nineteenth century Charles Dana Gibson depicted the \"New Woman\" in his painting, \"The Reason Dinner was Late\", which is \"a sympathetic portrayal of artistic aspiration on the part of young women\" as she paints a visiting policeman.\n\nArtists \"played crucial roles in representing the New Woman, both by drawing images of the icon and exemplyfying this emerging type through their own lives\". In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries about 88% of the subscribers of 11,000 magazines and periodicals were women. As women entered the artist community, publishers hired women to create illustrations that depicted the world through a woman's perspective. Successful illustrators included Jennie Augusta Brownscombe, Jessie Wilcox Smith, Rose O'Neill, Elizabeth Shippen Green, and Violet Oakley.\nDuring the nineteenth century there were a significant number of women who became successful, educated artists, a rarity before that time, with the exception of a few like Angelica Kauffman (1741–1807) and Louise Élisabeth Vigée Le Brun (1755–1842). The emerging women artists created works with a different perspective than men who represented the feminine in floral depictions of passivity, ornamentality and sexual purity; challenged the limited concepts of femininity; and created a genre of floral-female paintings in which \"the artist placed one woman or more in a flower garden setting and manipulated composition, color, texture and form to make the women look as much like flowers as possible\" but with a different viewpoint of what feminine meant. The approach was not used for portraits. Its form of feminine representation has largely gone unrecognized by American art scholars and conservative society, ignored in response to the burgeoning \"New Woman\" beginning in the late nineteenth century. Anna Lea Merritt (1844–1930) created flower-feminine paintings; noting floral-feminine symbolism employed by male artists like Charles Courtney Curran and Robert Reid, Merritt said that she saw \"flowers as 'great ladies' noting that 'theirs is the langour of high breeding, and the repose and calm of weary idleness\". Emma Lampert Cooper (1855–1920) was one of the well-educated artists who became a successful landscape painter and academic figure after having begun as a children's book illustrator and painter of miniatures and flower paintings. Realizing the difficulty in making the transition to a successful painter, particularly of landscape and figure paintings, Cooper warned other women artists of the difficulty in creating a successful career in such works, but was able to do so herself after becoming a success in Rochester, New York and studying in Europe.\n\nIn the 1920s, the New Woman's Movement arose among educated Korean women who protested the Confucian patriarchal tradition. During a period of Japanese imperialism, Christianity was seen as an impetus for Korean nationalism and had been involved in events such as the March 1st Movement of 1919 for independence. Hence, in contrast to many Western contexts, Christianity informed the ideals of Western feminism and women's education, especially through the Ewha Womans University.\n\nThe New Woman's Movement is often seen to be connected with the Korean magazine \"New Women\" (), founded in 1920 by Kim Iryŏp, which included other key figures such as Na Hye-sŏk.\n\n"}
{"id": "44497815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44497815", "title": "Pakistan Association Dubai", "text": "Pakistan Association Dubai\n\nThe Pakistan Association Dubai (PAD) is the largest community center for overseas Pakistanis in the world. It was founded in the late 1960s as a platform for advancing the social and cultural interests of Pakistani expatriates residing in Dubai and more broadly, the United Arab Emirates.\n\nThe Pakistani diaspora in the UAE is the third largest overseas Pakistani community, and also one of the oldest expatriate groups in the UAE. There are currently over 1.2 million Pakistanis in the United Arab Emirates, out of which over 400,000 are based in Dubai alone. Pakistanis collectively comprise around 13% of Dubai's population and are the third largest ethnic group in the emirate (after Indians and native Emiratis). When PAD was founded in the late 1960s by members of the early community, it was initially based at a small rented office space in Murshid Bazar in Deira, where the Pakistan Education Academy now exists. By the early 1990s, the office was shifted to the Astoria Hotel in Bur Dubai. Later, the centre where the association is now headquartered was built on Oud Metha Road in Bur Dubai. The objectives of PAD include promoting relations between Pakistan and the UAE, providing community support and welfare, promoting Pakistani culture, organising recreational community events, and enhancing the interests of the Pakistani expatriate community in the UAE.\n\nThe association elects a president who formally heads the organisation, typically for a tenure of two to three years. A vice-president, general-secretary and joint-secretary are also elected as part of the executive body. Membership is required to register and participate in the association. PAD works closely with the Consulate-General of Pakistan in Dubai. There are multiple community wings operating under PAD. These include the medical, engineering, journalist, professional, accounting and ladies wings, among others.\n\nPAD arranges numerous cultural events and gatherings in the community, such as Independence Day, Pakistan Day and UAE National Day celebrations, literary events including mushairas, iftar dinners during Ramadan, chaand raat events, meena bazaars, fundraising dinners and awareness events, award ceremonies, art exhibitions, sport and leisurely events, as well as workshops and language classes. PAD also arranges support services for Pakistanis in the UAE labour force, as well welfare activities both in Pakistan and the UAE. A newsletter is published and distributed by the association.\n\n"}
{"id": "24236672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24236672", "title": "Pogopalooza", "text": "Pogopalooza\n\nPogopalooza: The Xpogo World Championship Series is a multi-city international touring championship that brings together the world's top Xpogo athletes for multiple days of competition, exhibition, and world record setting. Along with the competition, Pogopalooza also features the largest exposition of pogo stick companies, a Free Jump/Clinic area for people of all ages to try out an array of pogo sticks – classic to extreme, along with sponsorship activations and experiences associated with the event. The organizers of Pogopalooza refer to the event as \"the largest pogo stick event on the planet.\"\nStarted in 2004 in a parking lot in Lincoln, Nebraska, Pogopalooza enters its 11th year for 2014 and has grown to be the largest and most widely attended property associated with the sport of Xpogo.\n\nIn 2014, Pogopalooza competitions occurred in Montpellier, France; Pittsburgh, USA; and Helsingborg, Sweden.\nExtreme Pogo or Xpogo is an action sport which involves riding and performing tricks on extreme pogo sticks, defined as such by their durability and potential for height. Today's Xpogo sticks have the potential for over 10 ft. of height (measured from the ground to the bottom of the tip). Extreme pogo is a young extreme sport and is currently emerging into popular culture as evidenced by the growing number of Xpogo athletes around the globe, growing sales from extreme pogo companies, the popularity of Xpogo athlete exhibition teams, positive feedback and continued interest in Xpogo content, and the expanding scope of the annual Pogopalooza: The Xpogo World Championship Series.\n\nThe first Pogopalooza was held in 2004 in a parking lot in Nebraska, organized by Dan Brown, one of the original Xpogo founders. While the event was small in scope and only drew friends and family, it set the precedent to hold an annual event bringing together extreme pogo athletes from around the country, and eventually the world. Each year since Pogopalooza 1, the event grew in scope and design. Gaining more structure, media attention, athlete attendance, Pogopalooza progressed steadily for 5 years. Pogopalooza 6 in 2009, which was held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania saw the biggest turnout of athletes yet, over 50+ from across the United States, Canada, and England and involved the whole of the City through four days of events and competition. Post-Pogopalooza 6 national media began to take note of extreme pogo in the biggest manner to date. The Wall Street Journal ran a front-page article on the sport and numerous other countrywide and even international publications began covering athletes, events, and the growth of Xpogo in general. Pogopalooza 7, 8, and 9 represented steady progress as well, leading up to Pogopalooza 10, which stood as another breakout year. Widely attended and heavily covered, Pogopalooza 10 occurred in New York City across July 26-28th, 2013. After the event, organizers announced that the Pogopalooza competition would be expanded into a multi-city international touring format for 2014. Today, the event is referred to as \"Pogopalooza: The Xpogo World Championship Series\" and occurs multiple times throughout the year in cities around the world. \nPogopalooza features the top Xpogo athletes worldwide competing against each other to accumulate championship points that designate world rankings. Each individual Pogopalooza Tour Stop in a given year features the BIG AIR competition, a run-based event where athletes thrown down on a specially designed course, the BEST TRICK competition, and the HIGH JUMP competition. Individual medals and cash are provided to the top three winners in each competition, at each Pogopalooza. Overall, athletes accumulate points across all competitions and events. \nThe Pogopalooza competition is streamlined live through www.Xpogo.com.\n\nIn addition the competition, a world record day kicks off each Pogopalooza, where athletes attempt to break any one of the 15 Xpogo LLC-recognized Guinness World Records.\nAdditionally, all of the world's top pogo stick manufacturers normally attend each Pogopalooza, exhibiting their products and allowing the public to try all pogo sticks in the Free Jump/Clinic area.\n2018 pogopalooza is at wilkingsburg Pennsylvania\n\nXpogo LLC designs and builds the Pogopalooza courses. These courses consist of a series of boxes, ramps, steps, etc., which the jumpers utilize in their runs. The features of the course are most commonly topped with plywood and the frame made from two by fours. The final products are then painted. A new course is constructed for each Pogopalooza and then dismantled afterwards.\n"}
{"id": "1003359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1003359", "title": "Redleg", "text": "Redleg\n\nRedleg is a term used to refer to poor whites that live on Barbados, St. Vincent, Grenada and a few other Caribbean islands. Their forebears came from Ireland, Scotland and the West of England.\n\nAccording to folk etymology, the name is derived from the effects of the tropical sun on their fair-skinned legs (AKA sunburn). However, the term \"Redlegs\" and its variants were also in use for Irish soldiers of the same sort as those later transported to Barbados by the English. The variant \"Red-shankes\" is recorded as early as the 16th century by Edmund Spenser in his dialogue on the current condition of Ireland.\n\nIn addition to \"Redlegs\", the term underwent extensive progression in Barbados and the following terms were also used: \"Redshanks\", \"Poor whites\", \"Poor Backra\", \"Backra Johnny\", \"Ecky-Becky\", \"Poor Backward Johnnie\", \"Poor whites from below the hill\", \"Edey white mice\" or \"Beck-e Neck\" (Baked-neck). Historically everything besides \"poor whites\" was used as derogatory insults.\n\nMany of the Redlegs' ancestors were forcibly transported by Oliver Cromwell consequent to his Conquest of Ireland. Others had originally arrived on Barbados in the early to mid-17th century as indentured servants. Small groups of Germans and Portuguese were also imported as plantation labourers.\n\nBy the 18th century, indentured servants became less common. African slaves were trained in all necessary trades, so there was no demand for paid white labour. The Redlegs, in turn, were unwilling to work alongside the freed slave population on the plantations. Therefore, most tried to emigrate to other British colonies whenever the opportunity arose, which reduced the white population to a small minority; and most of the white population that chose to stay eked out, at best, a subsistence living. The Redleg descendants of indentured servants today are extremely poor, almost all living in shacks in the countryside. Many Redlegs reside in St. John's Parish.\n\nBecause of the deplorable conditions under which the Redlegs lived, a campaign was initiated in the mid-19th century to move portions of the population to other islands which would be more economically hospitable. The relocation process succeeded, and a distinct community of Redleg descendants live in the \"Dorsetshire Hill\" district on St. Vincent as well as on the islands of Grenada around \"Mt. Moritz\" and Bequia.\n\nFor the small Redleg community still living on Barbados, most live a poorer standard of life than the blacks, relying on farming or running small shops and brothels that serve the wealthier blacks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8386017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8386017", "title": "Sakapultek language", "text": "Sakapultek language\n\nSakapultek or Sacapulteco is a Mayan language very closely related to K'iche' (Quiché). It is spoken by approximately 15,000 people in Sacapulas, El Quiché department and in Guatemala City.\n"}
{"id": "20675844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20675844", "title": "Sangra", "text": "Sangra\n\nThe Sangra are a subtribe of Hindu Brahmins in the Jaegion of Jammu and Kashmir, India. They settled in the districts of Kathua and Jammu. It is widely believed that the Sangras of Kootah village migrated from Sanghar to a village near Purmandal. \n\nSangras are also known as Shah Sangras, because of their history. The tales of their riches purport that all Kings of Jammu and Kashmir used to take loans from Sangra shahs of Kootah to finance state affairs. They owned agricultural lands spreading over several hundred square miles and were gold traders. Notably, in the 1970's, when former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was Finance Minister, he visited Kootah to see the financial management of Sangra shahs. \n\nSangras in other parts of the country are also known as Hindu jats in Punjab and Haryana and are settled in a village in the Thol district of Kurukshetra (Haryana), Hosiarpur (Punjab), India. Hindu Jats claimed that they received the surname \"Sangra\" from Raja Sangu as they are descendants of Raja Sangu.\n\nThe surname Sangra comes from the name of a place called Sangra in Ladakh, India, along river Suru.\n\nA Sangra village is found in the district Kargil of Ladakh, India, along with Suru River. Muslims, Buddhists and Hindus there are all known as Sangras. A Sangar village is sited near the holy place, Purmandal in Jammu district. From this village Sangras are likely to have moved to various places in the search of fertile land and migrated to various regions nearby i.e. Punjab (Pakistan), Punjab (India), Haryana (India), J&K (India), Sindh (Pakistan) and Tibet.\n\nA Muslim Rajput tribe found in Punjab, Pakistan are also classed as Sangra. This tribe claims to descend from Sangra, a Bhatti Rajput from Bikaner, in what is now Rajasthan. In the 14th Century the tribe migrated from Rajasthan and settled in Kathala, the ruins of which are near Tibba Tanwi-Wala, near Bahwalpur. They are said to have converted to Islam in the 17th century. They use the surname Rai.\n\nSangras are found throughout the southern Punjab, with concentrations in Jhang District, as well as in some other southern Punjab districts, such as Layyah, Multan, Okara and Sahiwal.\n\nSangras can also be found in Indonesia.\n\nIrrespective of religion, they are fond of lands and horse riding, and share physical characteristics: they are usually tall, broad-shouldered and have pointed noses. \n"}
{"id": "3600164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3600164", "title": "Semai people", "text": "Semai people\n\nThe Semai (also known as Mai Semai or Orang Dalam) are a semi sedentary ethnic group living in the center of the Malay Peninsula in Southeast Asia, known especially for their nonviolence. They speak Semai, an Austroasiatic language closely related to Temiar, spoken by Temiars nearby. The Semai belong to the Senoi group and are one of the largest indigenous ethnic group in the Peninsula and the largest of the Senoi group.\n\nThe population dynamics of the Semai people in Malaysia:-\n\nIt is thought that the Semai are the remnants of the original, ancient and widespread population of Southeast Asia. According to Keene State College's Orang Asli Archive, in 1991 there were 26,627 and according to the Center for Orang Asli Concern in 2000 there were 34,248 Semai living on the Malay Peninsula. This number has increased in recent years with the advent of better nutrition as well as improved sanitation and healthcare practices. These numbers, however, do not include other peoples of Semai or mixed descent, most of whom have assimilated into other cultures and have abandoned their ancestral tribal lands in order to seek better employment and education opportunities, especially in the larger cities.\n\nA genetic study conducted in 1995 by a team of biologists from the National University of Singapore has shown a close relationship between the Semai and the Khmer of Cambodia. This is in line with the linguistic situation of the Semai, whose language belongs to the Mon-Khmer family. Furthermore, the Semai seem to be more closely related to the Javanese than to their Malay neighbours on the peninsula.\n\nThe Semai are horticulturalists who have a gift economy. They are among the indigenous peoples of Malaysia (see Orang Asli) who have been pushed into the hills and mountains by later, more technologically powerful incoming peoples. They have no police and no government per se. According to Dentan, adults appear to be controlled primarily by public opinion. The Semai themselves say \"There is no authority here but embarrassment.\" Although popular and verbally facile individuals are influential in public affairs, the Semai have no formal leaders.\n\nDisputes in the Semai community are resolved by holding a \"becharaa\", or public assembly, at the headman's house. This assembly may last for days and involves thorough discussion of the causes, motivations and resolution of the dispute by disputants and the whole community, ending with the headman charging either or both of the disputants not to repeat their behavior lest it endanger the community. The Semai have a saying that \"there are more reasons to fear a dispute than a tiger.\"\n\nSemai children are never punished or forced against their will. If a parent asks a child to do something and the child says \"I don't want to,\" the matter is ended. However, Semai parents use fear of strangers and violence in nature such as thunderstorms and lightning to control children's behavior if ever it becomes necessary. A concept similar to karma is also prevalent where children are told stories of sprites (mambang in Malay) and forest spirits who will take retribution if their sanctity is violated. Children also appear to be taught to fear their own aggressive impulses. The concept of \"mengalah\" or giving in is most cherished where children since young are taught to 'give way' to others so as to preserve the peace and harmony of the village.\n\nThe games Semai children play are non-competitive. These games include forms of sports that encourage physical activity and exertions so that the body becomes tired and are therefore made ready for sleep and the subsequent dreaming. One game involves hitting at other children with sticks; the sticks, however, always stop short a few inches from their target so that no one actually gets struck. Modern games are also played but with significant modifications. A game of badminton for example uses no partition nets and keeps no score. The shuttlecock is deliberately hit so that it could be easily intercepted by the other player and passed back, and so forth. The objective seems to be purely for exercise.\n\nWith regards to space and dominion, there appears to be no distinction between the public and private realms, and thus, \"the Western concept of privacy, domestic or otherwise, is not to be found\". This concept is also shared by the rural Malays, of whom, many are descended from mixed marriages with the Semais and other Orang Asli people. They carry with them the wisdom and lore of the Semais, including their non-violent and pacifist tendencies, harmonized with other prevailing religions of their adoption.\n\nThe Semais live in villages and most of the structures are built with wood, bamboo with weaved walls and thatched roofs using palm leaves. Semai houses have no visible bedrooms, especially for the children, as they all sleep in the main hall. The only separation seems to be in the form of wooden-beaded curtains for the parents' chambers. This form of separation is also adopted by the coastal Malays, who use instead curtains made of seashells, and deutero-Malays, who use the batik cloth to form the curtains. There are no locks or otherwise, usual devices used to preventing an unwanted entry into any of these rooms. A simple way of telling that an entry is unwanted is by drawing down the curtains. To allow entry, the curtain is drawn to the sides and tied to form an opening. Expressed permission must be requested in cases where entry is needed when the curtains are closed. An entry without permission is a transgression and entails some sort of natural retribution.\n\nThe Semai people is also known for their traditional Sewang dance, where it is usually performed in events such as celebrating birth, funerals, circumcision ceremony, healing of sicknesses and for other superstitions; of which some of those events can last for three to six days.\n\nThe animist traditions of the Semai include a thunder deity called \"Enku\". A small eyeless snake is called Thunder's headband. One of the most important beings associated with thunder are the Nāga, a group of huge, subterranean dragons that ravage villages during thunder-squalls and are associated with rainbows. \"Chuntah\" is a ritual performed to make the evil spirits leave. Chuntah is performed in the middle of a storm where a man collects rain in a bamboo container until it is nearly full, then gashes his skin and lets the blood run into the container.\n\nThe Semai world of animals includes \"cheb\" that has feathers and flies, \"ka\"' has rounded scales or moist skin and lives in or near the water, \"menhar\" lives on the ground or in the trees, menhar also includes fungi. The Semai usually have restrictions on eating animals that straddle two groups. Snakes are usually not eaten because moving menhar have legs, but snakes live on land, so the Semai consider this \"unnatural.\"\n\nSome of the settlements that the Semai people are located includes:-\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5331272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5331272", "title": "Spin (1995 film)", "text": "Spin (1995 film)\n\nSpin is a 1995 documentary film by Brian Springer composed of raw satellite feeds featuring politicians' pre-appearance planning. It covers, not only the presidential election, but also the 1992 Los Angeles riots as well as the Operation Rescue abortion protests.\n\nUsing the 1992 presidential election as his springboard, Springer captures the behind-the-scenes schemings of politicians and newscasters in the early 1990s. Pat Robertson banters about \"homos,\" Al Gore learns how to avoid abortion questions, George H. W. Bush talks to Larry King about Halcion—all presuming they are off camera. Composed of 100% unauthorized satellite footage, \"Spin\" is a surreal expose of media-constructed reality.\n\nThe film also documents behind the scenes footage of Larry Agran who unsuccessfully sought the Democratic Party nomination for President. Agran was generally ignored by the media during his candidacy, a topic covered in the documentary. The media did not report his polling numbers even as he met or exceeded the support of other candidates such as Jerry Brown. Party officials excluded him from most debates on various grounds, even having him arrested when he interrupted to ask to participate. When he managed to join the other candidates in any forum, his ideas went unreported. \n\nStephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" said of the film, \"a devastating critique of television's profound manipulativeness in the way it packages the news and politics\". \"Spin\" is a follow-up of the 1992 film \"Feed\"; for which Springer provided much of the raw satellite footage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8434274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8434274", "title": "Swiss Standard German", "text": "Swiss Standard German\n\nSwiss Standard German (), or Swiss High German ( or \"Schweizerhochdeutsch\"), referred to by the Swiss as \"Schriftdeutsch\", or \"Hochdeutsch\", is the written and spoken form of one of four official languages in Switzerland, besides French, Italian and Romansh. It is a variety of Standard German, used in the German-speaking part of Switzerland. It is mainly written, and rather less often spoken.\n\nSwiss Standard German is not a German dialect, but a variety of standard German. It is not to be confused with Swiss German, an umbrella term for the various Alemannic German dialects (in the sense of \"traditional regional varieties\") that are the default everyday languages for the majority of the population in German-speaking Switzerland.\n\nGerman is a pluricentric language. In contrast with other local varieties of German, Swiss Standard German has distinctive features in all linguistic domains: not only in phonology, but also in vocabulary, syntax, morphology and orthography. These characteristics of Swiss Standard German are called \"Helvetisms\". Besides influences from Alemannic German, those characteristics include extensive use of loan words from Romance languages, especially French.\n\nSwiss Standard German (SSG) is the official written language in German-speaking Switzerland. It is used in books, all official publications (including all laws and regulations), in newspapers, printed notices, most advertising and in other printed matter. Authors write literature mainly using Swiss Standard German; some dialect literature exists. SSG is similar in most respects to the Standard German in Germany and Austria; there are a few differences in spelling, most notably the replacing of the German ligature \"ß\" with \"ss\". For example:\n\n\nThere are some differences in vocabulary, including, for instance, using a loanword from another language. For example:\n\n\nIn addition, SSG uses different orthography in letter writing, and the salutations used for the same also differ from Standard German.\n\nThe Swiss use the Swiss Standard German word \"Lernfahrausweis\" for a learner's driving permit (note how it differs from the SSG word for a \"regular\" driving license: \"Führerausweis\").\n\nThe Swiss use the Standard German word \"Spital\" (hospital). \"Spital\" is also found in volumes of Standard German language dictionaries; however, Germans from northern Germany prefer to use \"Krankenhaus\", whereas \"Spital\" is also used in areas of southern Germany, Austria, and Liechtenstein.\n\nThere are differences in gender for some nouns:\n\n\nSome expressions are borrowed from French and thus differ from usage in Germany, such as\n\n\nThe Swiss keyboard layout has no key, nor does it have the capital umlaut keys \"Ä\", \"Ö\" and \"Ü\". This dates back to mechanical typewriters that had the French diacritical marks letters on these keys to allow the Swiss to write French on a Swiss German QWERTZ keyboard (and vice versa). Thus a Swiss German VSM keyboard has an key that prints an \"à\" (a-grave) when shifted. However, it is possible to write uppercase umlauts by use of caps lock or by using the dead key.\n\nThe names of municipalities, towns, stations, and streets are often not written with a starting capital umlaut, but instead with \"Ae\", \"Oe\" and \"Ue\", such as the Zürich suburb Oerlikon, or the hamlet Aetzikofen, or the Bernese municipality Uebeschi. However, field names, such as Äbenegg, Ötikon (near Stäfa), or Überthal, and any other word, such as \"Ärzte\" (English: physicians), usually start with capital umlauts.\n\nAs for the various dialects of Swiss German, they are occasionally written, but their written usage is mostly restricted to informal situations such as private text messages, e-mails, letters, notes, or within social media such as Facebook. The ability of German Swiss to transliterate their language into writing is an integral and important part of the identity and culture of German-speaking Switzerland.\n\nThe default spoken language in German-speaking Switzerland is mostly the respective local dialect. Due to a rather large inter-cantonal migration rate (about 5% p.a.) within modern Switzerland for decades, many different Swiss German dialects are spoken in any one place, especially in urban areas; for example, in the city of Zurich (end of 2013): of the 272,700 Swiss (total: 400,000) living in Zurich, only 40% (28%) are from Zurich itself with 51% (36%) from the entire canton of Zurich.\n\nOutside of any educational setting, Swiss Standard German is spoken in very few specific formal situations, such as in news broadcasts and reputable programmes of the public media channels; in the parliaments of German-speaking cantons; in the federal parliament in Berne (unless another official language of Switzerland is used), although dialect is certainly encroaching on this domain; in loudspeaker announcements in public places such as railway stations, etc. Church services, including the sermon and prayers, are usually in Swiss Standard German. Generally in any educational setting Swiss Standard German is used (during lessons, lectures or tutorials). However, outside of lessons Swiss-German dialects are used, even when, for example, talking to a teacher about the class. The situations in which Swiss Standard German is spoken are characteristically formal and public, and there are situations where written communication is also important.\n\nIn informal situations, Swiss Standard German is used whenever a German Swiss is communicating with a non-German Swiss and it is assumed that this person does not understand the respective dialect. It is also often used when only one person can speak Swiss German while the other person can understand dialect but cannot speak dialect. Among each other, the German-speaking Swiss mostly use their respective Swiss German dialect, irrespective of social class, education or topic.\n\nUnlike in other regions where German varieties are spoken, there is no continuum between Swiss Standard German and the Swiss German dialects. The speakers speak either Swiss Standard German, or a Swiss German dialect, and they are conscious about this choice.\n\nNevertheless, about 11%, or 871,800, of Swiss residents speak \"High German\" (also called Standard German) at home, but mainly due to the presence of German immigrants. Furthermore, about 46% of foreign nationals living in German-speaking Switzerland do not use Swiss German at all, but instead (Swiss) Standard German or other languages.\n\nThe concurrent usage of Swiss Standard German and Swiss German dialects has been called a typical case of diglossia. This claim has been debated because the typical diglossia situation assumes that the standard variety has high prestige, whereas the informal variety has low prestige. In the German-speaking part of Switzerland, however, the Swiss German dialects do not have a low prestige and permeate every socio-economic class of society. Although, dialect is more often used in rural than urban areas.\n\nSince Swiss Standard German is the usual written language and the Swiss German dialects are the usual spoken language, their interrelation has been called a \"medial diglossia\".\n\nMost German Swiss can speak fluent Swiss Standard German, but may or may not like doing so, as it feels stilted and unnatural to many. When they compare their Swiss Standard German to the way people from Germany speak, they think their own proficiency is inferior because it is studied and slower. Most German Swiss think that the majority speak rather poor Swiss Standard German; however, when asked about their personal proficiency, a majority will answer that they speak quite well.\n\n"}
{"id": "29113516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29113516", "title": "Thanksgiving Day Classic", "text": "Thanksgiving Day Classic\n\nThe Thanksgiving Day Classic is an annual doubleheader held on Thanksgiving in the Canadian Football League (CFL). It is typically one of two days in which the league plays on a Monday afternoon; the other is the Labour Day Classic. Unlike the Labour Day Classic, the teams in the Thanksgiving Day Classic rotate each year. The games also lack a presenting sponsor as the Labour Day Classic games have.\n\nThe Montreal Alouettes have traditionally been given hosting duties for the opening game. This was originally started in 1997 to compensate for not being part of the Labour Day Classic festivities; Montreal and the various Ottawa franchises normally play on Labour Day when both franchises are active. The Alouettes' permanent hosting of Thanksgiving remained in place after Ottawa returned to the league in 2014. The Hamilton Tiger-Cats played CFL games annually in all but three years between 1958 and 1982, hosting the vast majority of them; Hamilton also hosted three times in four years from 1990 to 1993 and again hosted a Thanksgiving matchup in 2013 due to stadium construction disrupting their hosting of the 2013 Labour Day Classic.\n\nSince the CFL's creation in 1958 to the most recently completed season, there have been 120 games played on Thanksgiving Day. \n\nDespite Canadian Thanksgiving being a legal holiday in the United States (Columbus Day), none of the CFL's American teams ever played the Thanksgiving Day Classic. The games have also not been televised live in the United States since 2009, although one of the two was broadcast on tape-delay in 2013.\n\nIn late 2017, a proposal emerged to move the start of the CFL season to five or six weeks earlier than it begins in the present day, so that the Grey Cup would be held on the third weekend of October, as opposed to the fourth Sunday in November as it stands as of 2018. The change, designed to accommodate a potential U.S. television agreement with NFL Network, has support among CFL owners and would, if approved, take effect for the 2019 CFL season. If the proposal were to take effect, Thanksgiving Day weekend would overlap with the CFL's conference championship games.\n\n"}
{"id": "927765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=927765", "title": "The Lorelei Signal", "text": "The Lorelei Signal\n\n\"The Lorelei Signal\" is the fourth episode of the of the animated American science fiction television series \"\". It first aired in the NBC Saturday morning lineup on September 29, 1973, and was written by Margaret Armen, author of three \"\" episodes.\n\nSet in the 23rd century, the series follows the adventures of Captain James T. Kirk (voiced by William Shatner) and the crew of the Federation starship \"Enterprise\". In this episode, Lt. Uhura (voiced by Nichelle Nichols), Nurse Chapel (voiced by Majel Barrett) and the \"Enterprise\" women must take charge of the ship from incapacitated male senior officers and rescue Captain Kirk and his landing party held on an alien world.\n\nOn stardate 5483.7, the Federation starship \"Enterprise\" investigates a sector of space where starships have been disappearing every 27.346 years. A strangely compelling musical signal lures the \"Enterprise\" to a remote planet in the Taurean system some 20 light-years distance. The music works on the men of the \"Enterprise\", affecting their judgement and causing them to experience euphoric hallucinations. Captain Kirk (voiced by William Shatner), First Officer Spock (voiced by Leonard Nimoy), Chief Medical Officer Dr. McCoy (voiced by DeForest Kelley), and Lieutenant Carver (voiced by James Doohan) beam down to the source of the signals.\n\nArriving on the planet surface they discover the inhabitants are a race of beautiful women who want to celebrate their arrival. They are given drink which they discover is drugged as they begin to fall unconscious. When they awake, they find themselves in a weakened state brought about by rapid aging. They discover headbands locked around their foreheads which somehow transmit their life-force to the bodies of the women, who are growing in strength.\n\nOn board the \"Enterprise\", Communications Officer Lt. Uhura (voiced by Nichelle Nichols) talks with Nurse Chapel (voiced by Majel Barrett) about the men's condition and comes to the conclusion that she must take command due to the irrational behavior of Chief Engineer Scott (voiced by James Doohan) and the other men.\n\nBack on the planet, Kirk and his party manage to gather enough strength to escape to a spacious garden and hide inside a tall urn. They discover that the pace of their loss of strength correlates with the proximity of the women. Rather than just wait to be found or just die, they decide that Spock should go back alone and attempt to find a communicator and contact the ship since he has not deteriorated as much as the others. Spock is able to complete his task and orders Uhura to come down with an all-female rescue party.\n\nUhura beams down with Chapel and a female security force and quickly stun the now-aggressive women with their phasers then compel them to help rescue the men after being told the story of how the Taurean women came to be in their current situation.\n\nBack on the \"Enterprise\", the aging process is stopped with the removal of the headbands, but they cannot find a treatment that will restore their original age until Spock comes up with the idea of using their original transporter patterns from when they first beamed down.\n\nUhura returns to the planet, and witnesses the Taurean leader, Theela (voiced by Majel Barrett), destroying the device that had been luring starships, stating that Uhura should tell Kirk she kept her side of the bargain. Uhura informs them that a ship of women will return to bring them to a habitable world and that the women's bodies should return to normal in a few months.\n\nIn addition to her normal role as Nurse Chapel, Majel Barrett supplies the voice of Theela, the head of the Taurean women, Nichelle Nichols supplies the voice of security officer Lt. Davison in addition to that of Lt. Uhura and James Doohan adds the voice of Lt. Carver to his usual role of Chief Engineer Scott. (Doohan also sings part of an old Scottish folk song as the \"Enterprise\" is seen drifting by the planet, in a segment that lasts over half a minute.)\n\nThis is one of three times a woman commands the \"Enterprise\", the other two being in by Number One, and \"Turnabout Intruder\" by one of Kirk's former lovers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "103054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=103054", "title": "Tuareg people", "text": "Tuareg people\n\nThe Tuareg people (; also spelt Twareg or Touareg; endonym: \"Kel Tamasheq\", \"Kel Tagelmust\") are a large Berber ethnic confederation. They principally inhabit the Sahara in a vast area stretching from far southwestern Libya to southern Algeria, Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso. Traditionally nomadic pastoralists, small groups of Tuareg are also found in northern Nigeria.\n\nThe Tuareg speak the Tuareg languages (also known as \"Tamasheq\"), which belong to the Berber branch of the Afroasiatic family.\n\nThe Tuaregs have been called the \"blue people\" for the indigo-dye coloured clothes they traditionally wear and which stains their skin. A semi-nomadic Muslim people, they are believed to be descendants of the Berber natives of North Africa. The Tuaregs have been one of the ethnic groups that have been historically influential in the spread of Islam and its legacy in North Africa and the adjacent Sahel region.\n\nTuareg society has traditionally featured clan membership, social status and caste hierarchies within each political confederation. The Tuareg have controlled several trans-Saharan trade routes and have been an important party to the conflicts in the Saharan region during the colonial and post-colonial era.\n\nThe origin and the meaning of the name \"Tuareg\" have long been debated, with various etymologies hypothesized. It would appear that \"Twārəg\" is derived from the broken plural of \"Tārgi\", a name whose former meaning was \"inhabitant of \"Targa\"\", the Tuareg name of the Libyan region commonly known as Fezzan. \"Targa\" in Berber means \"(drainage) channel\". Another theory is that Tuareg is derived from \"Tuwariq\", the plural of the Arabic exonym \"Tariqi\".\n\nThe term for a Tuareg man is \"Amajagh\" (variants: \"Amashegh\", \"Amahagh\"), the term for a woman \"Tamajaq\" (variants: \"Tamasheq\", \"Tamahaq\", \"Timajaghen\"). Spellings of the appellation vary by Tuareg dialect. However, they all reflect the same linguistic root, expressing the notion of \"freemen\". As such, the endonym strictly refers only to the Tuareg nobility, not the artisanal client castes and the slaves. Two other Tuareg self-designations are \"Kel Tamasheq\" (Neo-Tifinagh: ), meaning \"speakers of Tamasheq\", and \"Kel Tagelmust\", meaning \"veiled people\" in allusion to the tagelmust garment that is traditionally worn by Tuareg men. The English exonym \"Blue People\" is similarly derived from the indigo color of the tagelmust veils and other clothing, which sometimes stains the skin underneath. Another term for the Tuareg is \"Imuhagh\" or \"Imushagh\", a cognate to the northern Berber self-name \"Imazighen\".\n\nThe Tuareg today inhabit a vast area in the Sahara, stretching from far southwestern Libya to southern Algeria, Niger, Mali and Burkina Faso. Their combined population in these territories exceeds 2.5 million, with an estimated population in Niger of around 2 million (11% of inhabitants) and in Mali of another 0.5 million (3% of inhabitants. The Tuareg are also the majority ethnic group in the Kidal Region of northeastern Mali.\n\nThe Tuareg traditionally speak the Tuareg languages, also known as \"Tamasheq\", \"Tamachen\", \"Tamashekin\", \"Tomacheck\" and \"Kidal\". These tongues belong to the Berber branch of the Afroasiatic family. According to \"Ethnologue\", there are an estimated 1.2 million Tuareg speakers. Around half this number consists of speakers of the Eastern dialect (\"Tamajaq\", \"Tawallammat\"). The exact number of Tuareg speakers per territory is uncertain. The CIA estimates that the Tuareg population in Mali constitutes approximately 0.9% of the national population (~150,000), whereas about 3.5% of local inhabitants speak Tuareg (Tamacheq) as a primary language. In contrast, Imperato (2008) estimates that the Tuareg represent around 3% of Mali's population.\n\nIn antiquity, the Tuareg moved southward from the Tafilalt region into the Sahel under the Tuareg founding queen Tin Hinan, who is believed to have lived between the 4th and 5th century. The matriarch's 1,500 year old monumental Tin Hinan tomb is located in the Sahara at Abalessa in the Hoggar Mountains of southern Algeria. Vestiges of an inscription in Tifinagh, the Tuareg's traditional Libyco-Berber writing script, have been found on one of the ancient sepulchre's walls.\n\nExternal accounts of interaction with the Tuareg are available from at least the 10th century. Ibn Hawkal (10th century), El-Bekri (11th century), Edrisi (12th century), Ibn Batutah (14th century), and Leo Africanus (16th century), all documented the Tuareg in some form, usually as Mulatthamin or “the veiled ones.” Of the early historians, fourteenth century Arab scholar, Ibn Khaldûn probably has some of the most detailed commentary on the life and people of the Sahara, though he apparently never actually met them. Some studies have linked the Tuareg to early ancient Egyptian civilization.\n\nAt the turn of the 19th century, the Tuareg territory was organised into confederations, each ruled by a supreme Chief (\"Amenokal\"), along with a counsel of elders from each tribe. These confederations are sometimes called \"Drum Groups\" after the Amenokal's symbol of authority, a drum. Clan (\"Tewsit\") elders, called Imegharan (wisemen), are chosen to assist the chief of the confederation. Historically, there have been seven major confederations:\n\nIn the late 19th century, the Tuareg resisted the French colonial invasion of their Central Saharan homelands and annihilated a French expedition led by Paul Flatters in 1881. However, in the long run Tuareg broadswords were no match for the more advanced weapons of French troops. After numerous massacres on both sides, the Tuareg were subdued and required to sign treaties in Mali 1905 and Niger 1917. In southern Morocco and Algeria, the French met some of the strongest resistance from the Ahaggar Tuareg. Their \"Amenokal\", traditional chief Moussa ag Amastan, fought numerous battles in defence of the region. Finally, Tuareg territories were taken under French governance, and their confederations were largely dismantled and reorganised.\n\nWhen African countries achieved widespread independence in the 1960s, the traditional Tuareg territory was divided among a number of modern states: Niger, Mali, Algeria, Libya, and Burkina Faso. Competition for resources in the Sahel has since led to conflicts between the Tuareg and neighboring African groups, especially after political disruption following French colonization and independence. There have been tight restrictions placed on nomadization because of high population growth. Desertification is exacerbated by human activity i.e.; exploitation of resources and the increased firewood needs of growing cities. Some Tuareg are therefore experimenting with farming; some have been forced to abandon herding and seek jobs in towns and cities.\n\nIn Mali, a Tuareg uprising resurfaced in the Adrar N'Fughas mountains in the 1960s, following Mali's independence. Several Tuareg joined, including some from the Adrar des Iforas in northeastern Mali. The 1960s' rebellion was a fight between a group of Tuareg and the newly independent state of Mali. The Malian Army suppressed the revolt. Resentment among the Tuareg fueled the second uprising.\n\nThis second (or third) uprising was in May 1990. At this time, in the aftermath of a clash between government soldiers and Tuareg outside a prison in Tchin-Tabaraden, Niger, Tuareg in both Mali and Niger claimed autonomy for their traditional homeland: (Ténéré, capital Agadez, in Niger and the Azawad and Kidal regions of Mali). Deadly clashes between Tuareg fighters (with leaders such as Mano Dayak) and the military of both countries followed, with deaths numbering well into the thousands. Negotiations initiated by France and Algeria led to peace agreements (January 11, 1992 in Mali and 1995 in Niger). Both agreements called for decentralization of national power and guaranteed the integration of Tuareg resistance fighters into the countries' respective national armies.\n\nMajor fighting between the Tuareg resistance and government security forces ended after the 1995 and 1996 agreements. As of 2004, sporadic fighting continued in Niger between government forces and Tuareg groups struggling for independence. In 2007, a new surge in violence occurred.\n\nSince the development of Berberism in North Africa in the 1990s, there has also been a Tuareg ethnic revival.\n\nSince 1998, three different flags have been designed to represent the Tuareg. In Niger, the Tuareg people remain diplomatically and economically marginalized, remaining poor and not being represented in Niger's central government.\n\nThe Tuareg traditionally adhered to the Berber mythology. Archaeological excavations of prehistoric tombs in the Maghreb have yielded skeletal remains that were painted with ochre. Although this ritual practice was known to the Iberomaurusians, the custom seems instead to have been primarily derived from the ensuing Capsian culture. Megalithic tombs, such as the jedar sepulchres, were also erected for religious and funerary purposes. In 1926, one such tomb was discovered south of Casablanca. The monument was engraved with funerary inscriptions in the ancient Libyco-Berber writing script known as Tifinagh, which the Tuareg still use.\n\nDuring the medieval period, the Tuareg adopted Islam after its arrival with the Umayyad Caliphate in the 7th century. In the 16th century, under the tutelage of El Maghili, the Tuareg embraced the Maliki school of the Sunni, which they now primarily follow. Despite being Muslim, they are not Arabic. The Tuareg helped spread Islam further into the Western Sudan. While Islam is the religion of the contemporary Tuareg, historical documents suggest that they initially resisted the Islamization efforts in their traditional strongholds. According to the anthropologist Susan Rasmussen, after the Tuareg had adopted the religion, they were reputedly lax in their prayers and observances of other Muslim precepts. They have also retained elements of pre-Islamic cosmology and rituals, particularly Tuareg women. For example, Tuareg religious ceremonies contain allusions to matrilineal spirits, as well as to fertility, menstruation, the earth and ancestresses. Norris (1976) suggests that this apparent syncretism may stem from the influence of Sufi Muslim preachers on the Tuareg.\n\nThe Tuaregs have been one of the influential ethnic groups who have helped spread Islam and its legacy in North Africa and the adjacent Sahel region. Timbuktu, an important Islamic center famed for its ulama, was established by Maghsharan Tuareg at the start of the 12th century. It flourished under the protection and rule of a Tuareg confederation. In 1449, a Tuareg ruling house also founded the Tenere Sultanate of Aïr (Sultanate of Agadez) in the city of Agadez in the Aïr Mountains. 18th century Tuareg Islamic scholars, such as Jibril ibn 'Umar, later preached the value of revolutionary jihad. Inspired by these teachings, Ibn 'Umar's student Usman dan Fodio would go on to lead the Fulani jihads and establish the Sokoto Caliphate.\n\nThe Tuareg society has traditionally featured clan membership, social status and caste hierarchies within each political confederation.\n\nClans have been a historic part of the Tuaregs. The 7th century invasion of North Africa from the Middle East triggered an extensive migration of Tuaregs such as the Lemta and the Zarawa, along with other fellow pastoral Berbers. Further invasions of Banu Hilal and Banu Sulaym Arab tribes into Tuareg regions in the 11th century moved the Tuareg southward into seven clans, which the oral tradition of Tuaregs claims to be descendants of the same mother.\n\nEach Tuareg clan (\"tawshet\") is made up of family groups constituting a tribe, each led by its chief, the \"amghar\". A series of \"tawsheten\" (plural of \"tawshet\") may bond together under an \"Amenokal\", forming a \"Kel\" clan confederation. Tuareg self-identification is related only to their specific \"Kel\", which means \"those of\". For example, \"Kel Dinnig\" (those of the east), \"Kel Ataram\" (those of the west). The position of \"amghar\" is hereditary through a matrilineal principle, it is usual for the son of a sister of the incumbent chieftain to succeed to his position. The \"amenokal\" is elected in a ritual which differs between groups, the individual amghar who lead the clans making up the confederation usually have the deciding voice. The matrilineal inheritance and mythology among Tuareg clans, states Susan Rasmussen, a cultural vestige from the pre-Islamic era of the Tuareg society.\n\nAccording to Rasmussen, Tuareg society exhibits a blend of pre-Islamic and Islamic practices. As such, patrilineal Muslim values are believed to have been superimposed upon the Tuareg's traditional matrilineal society. Other, apparently newer customs include the practice of close-cousin endogamous marriages and polygyny in conformity with Islamic tenets. Polygyny, which has been witnessed among Tuareg chiefs and Islamic scholars, is in turn thought to be contrary to the pre-Islamic monogamous tradition of the nomadic Tuareg.\n\nTuareg society has featured caste hierarchies within each clan and political confederation. These hierarchical systems have included nobles, clerics, craftsmen and unfree strata of people.\n\nTraditionally, Tuareg society is hierarchical, with nobility and vassals. The linguist Karl-Gottfried Prasse (1995) indicates that the nobles constitute the highest caste. They are known in the Tuareg language as \"imúšaɣ\" (\"Imajaghan\", \"the proud and free\" in Arabic). The nobles originally had a monopoly on carrying arms and owning camels, and were the warriors of the Tuareg regions. They may have achieved their social status by subjugating other Tuareg castes, keeping arms to defend their properties and vassals. They have also collected tribute from their vassals. This warrior nobility has traditionally married within their caste, not to individuals in strata below their own. A collection of tribes, each led by a noble, forms a confederation called \"amanokal\", whose chieftain is elected from among the nobles by the tribal chiefs. The chieftain is the overlord during times of war, and receives tribute and taxes from tribes as a sign of their submission to his authority.\n\nThe vassal-herdsmen are the second free strata within Tuareg society, occupying a position just below that of the nobles. They are known as \"ímɣad\" (\"Imghad\", singular \"Amghid\") in the Tuareg language. Although the vassals were also free, they did not own camels but instead kept donkeys and herds of goats, sheep and oxen. They pastured and tended their own herds as well those owned by the nobles of the confederation. The vassal strata have traditionally paid an annual \"tiwse\", or tribute to the nobles as a part of their status obligations, and also hosted any noble who was traveling through their territory. In the late Medieval era, states Prasse, the previously existing weapon monopoly of the nobility broke down after regional wars took a heavy toll on the noble warrior strata, and thereafter the vassals carried weapons as well and were recruited as warriors. After the start of the French colonial rule, which deprived the nobles of their powers over war and taxation, the Tuaregs belonging to the noble strata disdained tending cattle and tilling the land, seeking instead soldiering or intellectual work.\n\nA semi-noble strata of the Tuareg people has been the endogamous religious clerics, the \"marabouts\" (Tuareg: \"Ineslemen\", a loan word that means Muslim in Arabic). After the adoption of Islam, they became integral to the Tuareg social structure. According to Norris (1976), this strata of Muslim clerics has been a sacerdotal caste, which propagated Islam in North Africa and the Sahel between the 7th and the 17th centuries. Adherence to the faith was initially centered around this caste, but later spread to the wider Tuareg community. The marabouts have traditionally been the judges (\"qadi\") and religious leaders (\"imam\") of a Tuareg community.\n\nAccording to the anthropologist Jeffrey Heath, Tuareg artisans belong to separate endogamous castes known as the \"Inhædˤæn\" (\"Inadan\"). These have included the blacksmith, jewelers, wood workers and leather artisan castes. They produced and repaired the saddles, tools, household items and other items for the Tuareg community. In Niger and Mali, where the largest Tuareg populations are found, the artisan castes were attached as clients to a family of nobles or vassals, and carried messages over distances for their patron family. They also are the ones who traditionally sacrifice animals during Islamic festivals.\n\nThese social strata, like caste systems found in many parts of West Africa, included singers, musicians and story tellers of the Tuareg, who kept their oral traditions. They are called \"Agguta\" by Tuareg, have been called upon to sing during ceremonies such as weddings or funerals. The origins of the artisanal castes are unclear. One theory posits a Jewish derivation, a proposal that Prasse calls \"a much vexed question\". Their association with fire, iron and precious metals and their reputation for being cunning tradesmen has led others to treat them with a mix of admiration and distrust.\n\nAccording to Rasmussen, the Tuareg castes are not only hierarchical, as each caste differs in mutual perception, food and eating behaviors. For example, she relates an explanation by a smith on why there is endogamy among Tuareg castes in Niger. The smith explained, \"nobles are like rice, smiths are like millet, slaves are like corn\".\n\nIn the Tuareg areas of Algeria, a distinct tenant-peasant strata lives around oases known as \"izeggaghan\" (or \"hartani\" in Arabic). Traditionally, these local peasants were subservient to the warrior nobles who owned the oasis and the land. The peasants tilled these fields, whose output they gave to the nobles after keeping a fifth part of the produce. Their Tuareg patrons were usually responsible for supplying agricultural tools, seed and clothing. The peasants' origins are also unclear. One theory postulates that they are descendants of ancient people who lived in the Sahara before they were dominated by invading groups. Some speak a Songhay dialect along with Tuareg and Arabic. In contemporary times, these peasant strata have blended in with freed black slaves and farm arable lands together.\n\nThe Tuareg confederations acquired slaves as well as tribute paying states by conducting raids on communities to their south in West Africa. They also secured captives as war booty or purchased slaves in markets. The slaves or servile communities are locally called \"Ikelan\" (or \"Iklan\", \"Eklan\"), and slavery was inherited, with the descendants of the slaves known as \"irewelen\".\n\nAccording to the ethnographer Johannes Nicolaisen (1963), the Ikelan are of assimilated Nilotic origin rather than of Berber heritage like the ethnic Tuareg. They often live in communities separated from other castes. The Ikelan's Nilotic extraction is denoted via the Ahaggar Berber word \"Ibenheren\" (sing. \"Ébenher\"), which alludes to slaves that only speak a Nilo-Saharan language. The slaves of the Tuareg were generally of Sub-Saharan African heritage (Nilo-Saharan or Niger-Congo ethno-linguistic origins) and were captured during raids.\n\nThe word \"ikelan\" itself means \"to be black\", an allusion to most of the slaves. In the post-colonial literature, the alternate terms for \"Ikelan\" include \"Bellah-iklan\" or just \"Bellah\" derived from a Songhay word.\n\nAccording to the historian Starratt (1981), the Tuareg evolved a system of slavery that was highly differentiated. They established strata among their slaves, which determined rules as to the slave's expected behavior, marriageability, inheritance rights if any, and occupation. The \"Ikelan\" later became a bonded caste within Tuareg society, and they now speak the same Tamasheq language as the Tuareg nobles and share many customs. According to Heath, the \"Bella\" in the Tuareg society were the slave caste whose occupation was rearing and herding livestock such as sheep and goats.\n\nWhen French colonial governments were established, they stopped acquisition of new slaves and slave trading in markets, but they did not remove or free domestic slaves from the Tuareg owners who had acquired their slaves before the French rule started. In the Tuareg society, like with many other ethnic groups in West Africa, slave status was inherited, and the upper strata used slave children for domestic work, at camps and as a dowry gift of servants to the newlyweds.\n\nAccording to Bernus (1972), Brusberg (1985) and Mortimore (1972), French colonial interests in the Tuareg region were primarily economic, with no intention of ending the slave-owning institution. The historian Klein (1998) states instead that, although French colonial rule indeed did not end domestic slavery within Tuareg society, the French reportedly attempted to impress upon the nobles the equality of the Imrad and Bella and to encourage the slaves to claim their rights. He suggests that there was a large scale attempt by French West African authorities to liberate slaves and other bonded castes in Tuareg areas following the 1914–1916 Firouan revolt. Despite this, French officials following the Second World War reported that there were some 50,000 \"Bella\" under direct control of Tuareg masters in the Gao–Timbuktu areas of French Soudan alone. This was at least four decades after French declarations of mass freedom had happened in other areas of the colony. In 1946, a series of mass desertions of Tuareg slaves and bonded communities began in Nioro and later in Menaka, quickly spreading along the Niger River valley. In the first decade of the 20th century, French administrators in southern Tuareg areas of the French Sudan estimated that \"free\" to \"servile\" groups within Tuareg society existed at ratios of 1 to 8 or 9. At the same time, the servile \"rimaibe\" population of the Masina Fulbe, roughly equivalent to the \"Bella\", constituted between 70% to 80% of the Fulbe population, while servile Songhay groups around Gao made up some 2/3 to 3/4 of the total Songhay population. Klein concludes that approximately 50% of the population of French Soudan at the beginning of the 20th century was in some servile or slave relationship.\n\nWhile post-independence states have sought to outlaw slavery, results have been mixed. Certain Tuareg communities still uphold the institution. Traditional caste relationships have continued in many places, including slaveholding. In Niger, where the practice of slavery was outlawed in 2003, according to the ABC News, almost 8% of the population are still enslaved. The Washington Post reported that many slaves held by the Tuareg in Mali were liberated during 2013-14 when French troops intervened on behalf of the Malian government against Islamic radicals allied to the Tuareg.\n\nThe Tuareg social stratification involving noble, clerical and artisanal castes likely emerged after the 10th century, as a corollary of the rising slavery system. Similar caste institutions are found among various other communities in Africa. According to the anthropologist Tal Tamari, linguistic evidence suggests that the Tuareg blacksmith and bard endogamous castes evolved under foreign contact with Sudanic peoples since the Tuareg terms for blacksmith and bard are of non-Berber origin. Correspondingly, the designation for the endogamous blacksmiths among the southern Tuareg is \"gargassa\" (a cognate of the Songhay \"garaasa\" and Fulani \"garkasaa6e\"), whereas it is \"enaden\" among the northern Tuareg (meaning \"the other\").\n\nArchaeological work by Rod McIntosh and Susan Keech McIntosh indicates that long-distance trade and specialized economies existed in the Western Sudan at an early date. During the 9th and 10th centuries, Berbers and Arabs built upon these pre-existing trade routes and quickly developed trans-Saharan and sub-Saharan transport networks. The successive local Muslim kingdoms developed increasing sophistication as states, their martial capacity, slave raiding, holding and trading systems. Among these Islamic states were the Ghana Empire (11th century), the Mali Empire (13th and 14th centuries), and the Songhay Empire (16th century). Slavery created a template for servile relationships, which developed into more complex castes and social stratification.\n\nTuareg culture is largely matrilineal. Tuareg women have high status compared with their Arab counterparts (see matrilineality). Other distinctive aspects of Tuareg culture include clothing, food, language, religion, arts, astronomy, nomadic architecture, traditional weapons, music, films, games, and economic activities.\n\nIn Tuareg society women do not traditionally wear the veil, whereas men do. The most famous Tuareg symbol is the \"Tagelmust\" (also called éghéwed and \"litham\"), referred to as a Cheche (pronounced \"Shesh\"), an often indigo blue-colored veil called \"Alasho\". The men's facial covering originates from the belief that such action wards off evil spirits. It may have related instrumentally from the need for protection from the harsh desert sands as well. It is a firmly established tradition, as is the wearing of amulets containing sacred objects and, recently, verses from the \"Qur'an\". Taking on the veil is associated with the rite of passage to manhood; men begin wearing a veil when they reach maturity. The veil usually conceals their face, excluding their eyes and the top of the nose.\nThe Tuareg are sometimes called the \"Blue People\" because the indigo pigment in the cloth of their traditional robes and turbans stained their skin dark blue. The traditional indigo turban is still preferred for celebrations, and generally Tuareg wear clothing and turbans in a variety of colors.\n\nTaguella is a flat bread made from wheat flour and cooked on under charcoal fire, the flat disk-shaped bread is buried under the hot sand. The bread is broken into small pieces and eaten with a meat sauce. Millet porridge called a cink or a liwa is a staple much like ugali and fufu. Millet is boiled with water to make a pap and eaten with milk or a heavy sauce. Common dairy foods are goat's and camel's milk called akh, as well as cheese ta komart and Tona a thick yogurt made from them. Eghajira is a beverage drunk with a ladle. It is made by pounding millet, goat cheese, dates, milk and sugar and is served on festivals. A popular tea called \"atai\" or \"ashahi\" is made from Gunpowder Green Tea mixed with sugar. After steeping, it is poured three times in and out of the tea pot over the tea, mint and sugar and served by pouring from a height of over a foot into small tea glasses with a froth on top.\n\nThe Tuareg natively speak the Tuareg languages. A dialect cluster, it belongs to the Berber branch of the Afroasiatic family. Tuareg is known as \"Tamasheq\" by western Tuareg in Mali, as \"Tamahaq\" among Algerian and Libyan Tuareg, and as \"Tamajeq\" in the Azawagh and Aïr regions of Niger.\n\nFrench missionary Charles de Foucauld compiled a dictionary of the Tuareg.\n\nMuch Tuareg art is in the form of jewellery, leather and metal saddle decorations called trik, and finely crafted swords. The \"Inadan\" community makes traditional handicrafts. Among their products are tanaghilt or zakkat (the 'Agadez Cross' or 'Croix d'Agadez'); the Tuareg sword (Takoba), many gold and silver-made necklaces called 'Takaza'; and earrings called 'Tizabaten'. Pilgrimage boxes have intricate iron and brass decorations, and are used for carrying items.\n\nThe clear desert skies allowed the Tuareg to be keen observers. Tuareg celestial objects include:\n\nWhile living quarters are progressively changing to adapt to a more sedentary lifestyle, Tuareg groups are well known for their nomadic architecture (tents). There are several documented styles, some covered with animal skin, some with mats. The style tends to vary by location or subgroup. The tent is traditionally constructed for the first time during the marriage ceremony and is considered an extension of the union, to the extent that the phrase \"making a tent\" is a metaphor for becoming married. Because the tent is considered to be under the ownership of a married woman, sedentary dwellings generally belong to men, reflecting a patriarchal shift in power dynamics. Current documentation suggests a negotiation of common practice in which a woman's tent is set up in the courtyard of her husband's house. It has been suggested that the traditional tent construction and arrangement of living space within it represent a microcosm of the greater world as an aide in the organization of lived experiences so much so that movement away from the tent can cause changes in character for both men and women as its stabilizing force becomes faint.\n\nAn old legend says the Tuareg once lived in grottoes, \"akazam\", and they lived in foliage beds on the top acacia trees, \"tasagesaget\". Other kinds of traditional housing include: \"ahaket\" (Tuareg goatskin red tent), \"tafala\" (a shade made of millet sticks), \"akarban\" also called \"takabart\" (temporary hut for winter), \"ategham\" (summer hut), \"taghazamt\" (adobe house for long stay), and \"ahaket\" (a dome-shaped house made of mats for the dry season and square shaped roof with holes to prevent hot air).\n\n\nIn 2007, Stanford's Cantor Arts Center opened an exhibition, \"Art of Being Tuareg: Sahara Nomads in a Modern World\", the first such exhibit in the United States. It was curated by Tom Seligman, director of the center. He had first spent time with the Tuareg in 1971 when he traveled through the Sahara after serving in the Peace Corps. The exhibition included crafted and adorned functional objects such as camel saddles, tents, bags, swords, amulets, cushions, dresses, earrings, spoons and drums. The exhibition also was shown at the University of California, Los Angeles Fowler Museum in Los Angeles and the Smithsonian's National Museum of African Art in Washington, D.C.\n\nThroughout history, the Tuareg were renowned and respected warriors. Their decline as a military might came with the introduction of firearms, weapons which the Tuareg did not possess. The Tuareg warrior equipment consisted of a \"takoba\" (sword), \"allagh\" (lance) and \"aghar\" (shield) made of antelope's skin.\n\nTraditional Tuareg music has two major components: the monochord violin \"anzad\" played often during night parties and a small \"tambour\" covered with goatskin called \"tende\", performed during camel and horse races, and other festivities. Traditional songs called \"Asak\" and \"Tisiway\" (poems) are sung by women and men during feasts and social occasions. Another popular Tuareg musical genre is \"takamba\", characteristic for its Afro percussions.\n\nVocal music\n\nChildren and youth music\n\n\nDance\n\nIn the 1980s rebel fighters founded Tinariwen, a Tuareg band that fuses electric guitars and indigenous musical styles. Tinariwen is one of the best known and authentic Tuareg bands. Especially in areas that were cut off during the Tuareg rebellion (e.g., Adrar des Iforas), they were practically the only music available, which made them locally famous and their songs/lyrics (e.g. Abaraybone, ...) are well known by the locals. They released their first CD in 2000, and toured in Europe and the United States in 2004. Tuareg guitar groups that followed in their path include Group Inerane and Group Bombino. The Niger-based band \"Etran Finatawa\" combines Tuareg and \"Wodaabe\" members, playing a combination of traditional instruments and electric guitars.\n\nMany music groups emerged after the 1980s cultural revival. Among the Tartit, Imaran and known artists are: Abdallah Oumbadougou from Ayr, Baly Othmany of Djanet.\n\nTraditional music\n\nIshumar music or Teshumara music style\n\nWorld Music \n\nThe Desert Festival in Mali's Timbuktu provides one opportunity to see Tuareg culture and dance and hear their music.\nOther festivals include:\n\nThe first Tuareg feature film, \"Akounak Tedalat Taha Tazoughai\", is being released in 2014 and stars the musician Mdou Moctar.\n\nTuareg traditional games and plays include:\n\nTuareg are distinguished in their native language as the \"Imouhar\", meaning the free people; the overlap of meaning has increased local cultural nationalism. \nMany Tuareg today are either settled agriculturalists or nomadic cattle breeders, though there are also blacksmiths and caravan leaders. The Tuareg are a pastoral people, having an economy based on livestock breeding, trading, and agriculture.\n\nCaravan Trade\n\nSince Prehistoric times Tuareg peoples: the Garamantes have been organising caravans for trading across the Sahara desert. The caravan in Niger from around Agadez to Fachi and Bilma is called in Tamashek: Tarakaft or Taghlamt and the one in Mali from Timbuktu to Taoudenni Azalay.\n\nThese caravans used first oxen, horses and later camels as a means of transportation, here different types of caravans:\n\nSalt mines or salines in the desert.\n\nA contemporary variant is occurring in northern Niger, in a traditionally Tuareg territory that comprises most of the uranium-rich land of the country. The central government in Niamey has shown itself unwilling to cede control of the highly profitable mining to indigenous clans. The Tuareg are determined not to relinquish the prospect of substantial economic benefit. The French government has independently tried to defend a French firm, Areva, established in Niger for fifty years and now mining the massive Imouraren deposit.\n\nAdditional complaints against Areva are that it is: \"...plundering...the natural resources and [draining] the fossil deposits. It is undoubtedly an ecological catastrophe\". These mines yield uranium ores, which are then processed to produce \"yellowcake\", crucial to the nuclear power industry (as well as aspirational nuclear powers). In 2007, some Tuareg people in Niger allied themselves with the Niger Movement for Justice (MNJ), a rebel group operating in the north of the country. During 2004–2007, U.S. Special Forces teams trained Tuareg units of the Nigerien Army in the Sahel region as part of the Trans-Sahara Counter-Terrorism Partnership. Some of these trainees are reported to have fought in the 2007 rebellion within the MNJ. The goal of these Tuareg appears to be economic and political control of ancestral lands, rather than operating from religious and political ideologies.\n\nDespite the Sahara's erratic and unpredictable rainfall patterns, the Tuareg have managed to survive in the hostile desert environment for centuries. Over recent years however, depletion of water by the uranium exploitation process combined with the effects of climate change are threatening their ability to subsist. Uranium mining has diminished and degraded Tuareg grazing lands. Not only does the mining industry produce radioactive waste that can contaminate crucial sources of ground water resulting in cancer, stillbirths, and genetic defects but it also uses up huge quantities of water in a region where water is already scarce. This is exacerbated by the increased rate of desertification thought to be the result of global warming. Lack of water forces the Tuareg to compete with southern farming communities for scarce resources and this has led to tensions and clashes between these communities. The precise levels of environmental and social impact of the mining industry have proved difficult to monitor due to governmental obstruction.\n\n\n\nY-Dna haplogroups, passed on exclusively through the paternal line, were found at the following frequencies in Tuaregs:\nE1b1b is the most common paternal haplogroup among the Tuareg. Most belong to its E1b1b1b (E-M81) subclade, which is colloquially referred to as the \"Berber marker\" due to its prevalence among Mozabite, Middle Atlas, Kabyle and other Berber groups. It reaches frequencies of up to 100 percent in some parts of the Maghreb, and is dominated by its sub-clade E-M183. The clade is thought to have originated in North Africa around 14200 years ago. Its parent haplogroup E1b1b is associated with Afro-Asiatic-speaking populations, and is believed to have arisen in the Horn of Africa.\n\nBesides E1b1b, Pereira et al. (2011) and Ottoni et al. (2011) observed that certain Tuareg inhabiting Niger and Libya carry the E1b1a haplogroup (see table above). This clade is today primarily found among Niger-Congo-speaking populations, which suggests that some Tuareg tribes in parts of Libya and Niger may have assimilated many persons of West African origin into their communities. To wit, around 50% of individuals among the Al Awaynat Tuareg in Libya are E1b1a carriers compared to only 11% of the adjacent Tahala Tuareg. 89% of the Tahala belong instead to the E1b1b Tuareg founding lineage.\n\nAccording to mtDNA analysis by Ottoni et al. (2010), the Tuareg inhabiting the Fezzan region in Libya predominantly carry the H1 haplogroup (61%). This is the highest global frequency found so far of the maternal clade. The haplogroup peaks among Berber populations, and is thought to have arrived from the Iberian Peninsula during the Holocene. The remaining Libyan Tuareg mainly belong to two other West Eurasian mtDNA lineages, M1 and V. M1 is today most common among other Afro-Asiatic speakers inhabiting East Africa, and is believed to have arrived on the continent along with the U6 haplogroup around 40,000 years ago.\n\nPereira et al. (2010) observed greater matrilineal heterogeneity among the Tuareg inhabiting more southerly areas in the Sahel. The Tuareg in the Gossi environs in Mali largely bear the H1 haplogroup (52%), with the M1 lineage (19%) and various Sub-Saharan L2 subclades (19%) next most common. Similarly, most of the Tuareg inhabiting Gorom-Gorom in Burkina Faso carry the H1 haplogroup (24%), followed by various L2 subclades (24%), the V lineage (21%), and haplogroup M1 (18%). The Tuareg in the vicinity of Tanout in Maradi Region and westward to villages of Loube and Djibale in Tahoua Region in Niger are different from the other Tuareg populations in that a majority carry Sub-Saharan mtDNA lineages. In fact, the name for these mixed blood Tuareg-Haussa people is \"Djibalawaa\" named after the village of Djibale in Bouza Department, Tahoua Region of Niger. This points to significant assimilation of local West African females into this community. The most common maternal haplogroups found among the Tanout Tuareg are various L2 subclades (39%), followed by L3 (26%), various L1 sublineages (13%), V (10%), H1 (3%), M1 (3%), U3a (3%), and L0a1a (3%).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45054082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45054082", "title": "Ukrainian mafia", "text": "Ukrainian mafia\n\nUkrainian mafia is a type of criminal organization with origins in Ukraine. Such organizations are regarded as one of the most influential types of organized crime coming out of the former USSR next to the established Russian mafia, Georgian mafia, Chechen mafia, Armenian mafia and Azerbaijani mafia. Ukrainian criminal organizations are involved in a vast amount of illegitimate enterprises. Although Ukrainian criminal organizations are for the most part independently operating enterprises they are most closely connected with Russian mafia organizations, as is the case with Semyon Mogilevich.\n\nFollowing the collapse of the former Soviet Union, there were large stockpiles of arms left in Ukraine. The first prominence of the Ukrainian mafia came through their participation in the illicit international trafficking in these arms. Between 1992 and 1998, some $32 billion in military material disappeared from military depots in Ukraine and ended up primarily in West Africa and Central Asia. Allegedly, Ukrainian criminal organizations were also behind trafficking weapons to war-torn places such as Afghanistan at the time.\n\nFrom trafficking in arms, Ukrainian crime syndicates entered into the international trade in illegal drugs, becoming a major player in the narcotics traffic from Central Asia to Central Europe. The reach of Ukrainian gangs has become extended, having been reported from Central European countries such as the Czech Republic and Hungary, where they're involved in prostitution, to North American countries and Israel, where they founded a significant power base following the mass immigration of Ukrainian Jews which among the many law-abiding people had also criminal elements profiting from the open borders.\n\nThe most infamous form of Ukrainian organized crime, and the one which became the most famous, is the so-called Odessa mafia named after the Black Sea port city of Odessa. Odessa is an infamous smugglers’ haven and a key hub in post-Soviet global trafficking networks, not least moving Europe-bound Afghan heroin arriving from the Caucasus. Even in Ukraine's west, gangs are often closely involved in the lucrative trafficking of heroin, people, and counterfeit cigarettes into Europe, often in cooperation with Russian mafia gangs.\n\nOdessa traditionally had an ancient culture of banditry, dating back to the large and impoverished Jewish population. Famous writers such as Isaac Babel often wrote about the infamous exploits of Jewish gangsters, thieves and crime lords in the port city. 20th century thuggery made way for sophisticated organized crime when local crime lords began to use the city's sprawling port to their advantage. The at first locally active \"Odessa mafia\", sometimes also called the Malina, became well known when it branched out to New York City at first and later on Israel, when both countries gave the opportunity to Soviet Jews to immigrate. Many people from Odessa's Jewish population migrated abroad, among them a large part of the city's most infamous career criminals. Although the gang was born in the city of Odessa, it has since established most of its headquarters in cities such as New York City, Miami, Tel Aviv, Antwerp and Budapest with brigades composed of former Odessan or Odessa-connected criminals active in a large amount of other cities.\n\nIn the United States the Odessa mafia is based in the Brighton Beach district of Brooklyn, New York. It is regarded as the most powerful post-Soviet criminal organization in the US and has since expanded its operations to Miami and Los Angeles, where it has established connections with locally based Armenian and Israeli crime figures, along with San Francisco Bay. It's known for being a very secretive organization, being involved in protection rackets, loan-sharking, murder-for-hire, as well as the infamous fuel tax fraud rackets and narcotics trafficking. Nonetheless a large amount of Odessa Mafia-connected gangsters have become part of the US' criminal folklore, examples being Marat Balagula, Evsei Agron and Boris Nayfeld. Feuds, often resulting in extreme violence, happened in the 1980s and 1990s between Odessa gangsters such as the internal war between Balagula and Agron at first, and later on between the Nayfeld brothers and Monya Elson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2179356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2179356", "title": "Unarius Academy of Science", "text": "Unarius Academy of Science\n\nUnarius is a non-profit organization founded in 1954 in Los Angeles, California and headquartered in El Cajon, California. The organization purports to advance a new \"interdimensional science of life\" based upon \"fourth-dimensional\" physics principles. It is recorded that in 2003–4 Unarius centers existed in Canada, New Zealand, Nigeria, the United Kingdom, and in various locations in the United States. Membership figures are unknown.\n\nUnarius is an acronym for \"Universal Articulate Interdimensional Understanding of Science\". The founder, and subsequent \"channels\" and \"sub-channels\", have written books filled with channeled dissertations from alleged advanced intelligent beings that exist on higher frequency planes. Over 100 volumes have been published since 1954.\n\nThe group was founded in February 1954 in Los Angeles, California by Ernest L. Norman (1904–1971) and his wife Ruth E. Norman (1900–1993).\n\nFrom the period of 1954–1971, when Ernest Norman still controlled the organization, the organization defined \"the mission\" as the explanation and promotion of an interdimensional science of life in the books he wrote. He said that he had channeled the material via his psychic connections with extraterrestrial intelligences.\n\nBetween 1972–1993, while Ruth Norman guided it, the organization experienced renewed growth and public awareness. \"The mission\" became bringing Unarius to the masses. Ruth Norman granted interviews, appeared on Late Night with David Letterman and The David Susskind Show and kept very up-to-date technologically with a video production studio built in the late 1970s, when such equipment was still in its infancy. Unarius video productions began appearing on Public-access television cable TV stations all over the United States. In 2000, Diana Tumminia stated that in several cities in Southern California, the local public access channels carried weekly showings of Unarian films.\n\nUnarius has been featured in countless newspaper and magazine articles as well as radio and television spots.\n\nAfter Ruth Norman's death in 1993, Charles Louis Spiegel (also known as Antares) became director, a post he retained until his death in December 22, 1999. Since Ruth Norman's death in 1993, the organization has struggled, particularly since 2001, when a space-fleet landing predicted by Charles Spiegel in 1980 failed to occur.\n\nUnariuns believe in immortality of the soul, and that all people have reincarnated many times. They also believe that our solar system was once inhabited by ancient interplanetary civilizations.\n\nThe aliens are said to be \"human beings\" who have lived on Earth and on other planets outside our solar system. They are said to be more advanced than humans, spiritually and scientifically.\n\nWhile the group seems to have similarity to the Aetherius Society or to Raëlism, as they emphasize \"space brothers\" who will come from the stars in 33 spaceships to improve humanity, these beliefs are not held by all Unariuns and in fact, are discounted by many as contradictory to true Unariun principles.\n\nIn his book, \"The Truth About Mars\", Ernest Norman claimed that the Chinese evolved from ancient interstellar migrants who began colonizing Mars a million years ago. They are reported to have returned to Mars, where they live in underground cities, after being attacked by natives of the Earth. A group which had become separated did not return with them and this group branched off and formed the various Asian racial genotypes.\n\nErnest Norman claimed to have been a child prodigy, having read all his father's (a physician from Scandinavia) books eagerly, self-educating himself alongside his formal schooling. He also claimed that as a child, he performed to family, neighbors and teachers unexpected feats such as moving a heavy rabbit hutch using Archimedean principles and small logs, building radios and winning arguments with parents and teachers at an early age. According to Unarius, Ernest Norman was a scientist, and an aeronautical engineer from whom the idea of the television tube was stolen.\n\nClaiming to possess psychic ability, he began his metaphysical career reading palms and also claimed to have told women of their loved one's whereabouts and often deaths during the World War II years of 1942–1945. When this practice of describing fatalities allegedly lowered morale at war plants where he worked, he left and started to give lectures of his own philosophy in theosophical churches during the mid to late 1940s. Previous to meeting Ruth and the beginning of their mission, Ernest Norman gave psychic readings at spiritualist churches.\n\nRuth Norman was the oldest of eight children, born in 1900. She took many jobs early on to help support her family, and worked as a fruit packer, and at other various jobs, including as a live-in maid. Her first marriage produced a daughter. After this she worked at many jobs including store clerk, nanny, short-order cook, waitress, ran a real estate office and eventually owned and managed some property. She had purchased a motel, run a restaurant, worked at a cannery and worked in numerous other professions during her first fifty years.\n\nBoth Ernest and Ruth had experiences in Spiritualism before the UFO theme became common in the late 1940s. By the early 1950s, mystics at a psychic convention she attended told her that she was being followed around by long-bearded wise men carrying books and that she would help bring in these books in her future. This same thing had been told to Ernest by other mystics at this same convention and when the two met and later married. Books date their marriage to 1954, and their anniversary is celebrated by Unarius on February 14. Tumminia states that their union brought forth their \"mission\".\n\nWithin weeks, Ernest began to produce, by channeling, the first Unarius book, \"The Voice of Venus\". Ruth was later known within the group as both \"Ioshanna\" (1972–1979) and \"Uriel\" (1980–1993).\n\nErnest Norman became a \"channeler\", the process by which he \"wrote\" his books. Unarian channeling is a process of relaxed contemplation in which the practitioner closes the eyes and enters into a composed state, allowing thoughts and images to flow freely, as he or she voices \"messages\" received from a supposedly higher consciousness, or \"other beings\" which speak to or through him or her. Coupling \"channeling\" with \"past life\" readings, the Normans developed a devoted following.\n\nErnest Norman's first books contain themes similar to those of other metaphysical American religions and early 1950s contactees. While the Normans had dealings with other early contactee groups, initially Ernest Norman concerned himself with the \"spiritual nature\" of planets and their supposed history. He briefly mentioned flying saucers, saying that residents of more \"spiritual\" worlds were concerned about Atomic testing and responded by making their spacecraft visible and increasing contact with Earth people in order to attract attention.\n\nErnest Norman claimed to receive ‘transmissions’ from Mars and Venus, the homes of ‘great teachers’ and Ascended Masters who described their cities to him.\n\nAltogether, channeled descriptions of seven spiritual planets including Venus, claimed to be ‘advanced teaching centers’, comprise the set of books known as the \"Pulse of Creation Series\".\n\nThe Normans operated out of their home, and in the 60s and early 70s, they moved to different cities in California, eventually settling in Escondido. During that time, Norman and Ruth claimed past lives as Jesus and Mary Magdalene respectively, as well as other famous people. In 1970, Norman channeled his prime lesson book for a student of the science, \"The Infinite Concept of Cosmic Creation\".\n\nThe formation of the mission in February, 1954 by Ernest and Ruth Norman, led to the publication of the \"Voice Series\" of books. The first book, ‘Voice of Venus’ (1956), concerned a a psychic trip to Venus and described the advanced wonders of that civilization. Now known as ‘the Moderator’, he explained the existence of ‘healing wards’ on that planet where troubled souls go to recuperate from traumatic experiences. He explained this book was not channeled in the usual type of meditative, trance-like state or in a darkened room, but spoken normally and recorded on tape. Norman generally held modern spiritualist and theosophical movements and practices to be backwards and less enlightened. The work describes communication from Mal-Var of Venus who gives a tour of the Venusian capital. In the work, Venusians are described as having \"energy bodies\" and living in a higher vibratory plane that would be invisible to a human were he to stand in the middle of the capital city known as \"Azure\". The planet Venus and its culture are said to be more spiritual than that of the Earth and that more advanced Earth-dwellers visit and study on Venus when they sleep. Healing wards for human suicides, alcoholics, the mentally impaired and similar human wreckage exist in Azure and these souls are treated with positive energy and light to help them reincarnate with greater integration.\n\nThe Voice Series consists of seven books:\n\nThe seven books describe the seven planes of Shamballa, which are claimed to exist outside the conventional atomic spectrum and are spiritual or non-physical worlds. Each plane has a specialty in the teaching of advanced principles, for the betterment of an individual's progressive evolution from life to life.\n\nThe planes' specialties are:\n\nThese books authored by Ernest Norman, along with \"The Infinite Concept of Cosmic Creation\", which were a series of 13 lectures given in 1956 and later compiled into book form with seven advanced lesson courses, constitute the early teachings and beliefs of Unarius. The \"Voice Series\" books are written with famous past Earth denizens acting as the tour guides for these various planes.\n\nUnarius is an acronym which stands for \"Universal Articulate Interdimensional Understanding of Science\".\n\nUnarius, as an organization, is strongly opposed to its common classification as a religion. Unarians consider their teaching or beliefs as a science and not a religion and assert that they practice a science that teaches the 'spiritual' understanding of high energy-physics and reincarnation.\n\nSaliba points out that Unarius lacks the main elements that one normally associates with religion, e.g. a hierarchical structure, priests and clergy, initiation rites, weekly services or ceremonies. Neither do the members offer prayers to God or higher entities. Unarius feels more comfortable with the world ‘spiritual’, and admits that its teachings are ‘spiritual’ and that human beings have a spiritual nature. Notwithstanding, the beliefs of Unarius do satisfy many religious criteria in that spiritual reality is taught: humans develop their spiritual potential over lifetimes; the concept of the Space Brothers is basically a supernatural assumption as they seem different in kind, and are empirically unprovable; it involves a western concept of good and evil and an eastern concept of karma; higher entities are channeled; the texts read like sacred scriptures; its system of beliefs can explain or dispel all phenomena, and thus satisfy all questions of meaning for adherents.. Because of this many writers regard it as a religion.\n\nErnest Norman presents the case against religion in several books, most notably \"The Infinite Contact\", copyrighted in 1960, which describes in detail the origins of Christianity as rooted in Mithraism, Zoroastrianism and assorted ancient belief structures. Norman agreed with Karl Marx that religions were \"the opium of the people\", and yet also claimed to realize that many individuals were still at such a point in their evolution where religions still served a positive purpose and kept them from harming their fellowmen. Unarius calls its content and activities teaching \"interdimensional science\".\n\nUnarius was established to teach the 'fourth-dimensional science’ aka \"the Science of Life\" which incorporates harmonic frequencies, karma, reincarnation, past-life memories, channeling, and an elaborate cosmology of ‘spiritual planets.’ Central tenets of the belief system include contact with the ‘Space Brothers’ and a millenarian prophecy that predicts a mass landing of starships.\n\n\"The Science\" asserts that everything is energy: atoms, higher knowledge, our bodies and our experiences. This energy ‘vibrates in frequencies and wave forms’. ‘Understanding’ these vibrational energies allows contact with all things: higher intelligence, the ‘advanced teaching centers’ and our ‘past lives’. By being ‘in tune with spiritual frequencies’ we can heal ourselves of mental and physical illness.\n\nSaliba summarises Unarian belief under four basic themes: [1] intelligent life on other planets/galaxies; [2] an infinite creative intelligence (God); [3] that human beings are developing into an advanced state of consciousness; [4] the millennial hope of the advent of a landing. According to Unarius, the purpose of the research institution is \"to awaken the individual to previous life encounters, the clairvoyant aptitude of the mind, and the reality of one's spiritual connection.\"\n\nPracticing Unariuns hold the following beliefs:\n\nThese are the primary principles as explained by Norman in \"The Infinite Concept of Cosmic Creation\", Copyright 1956, 1960 Edition.\n\nFor the practicing Unariun these are the most important aspects of Unarius. Although the group is generally known for its predictions regarding flying saucers landing on Earth, Ernest L. Norman stressed these scientific core understandings as the key to personal development and mastery over material circumstances and in one instance derided flying saucer chasers as just another manifestation of people pursuing an \"escape mechanism\".\n\nWith the death of co-founder Ernest in 1971, the mission was continued by his wife and partner Ruth. New \"Sub-Channels\" now authored the books with her. The two sub-channels, Thomas Miller (Cosmon) and Louis Spiegel (Antares), are credited on a number of the organization's books starting in 1972.\n\nAfter a channeling revealed a lifetime lived in ancient Atlantis with the name \"Ioshanna\", she adopted the name \"Ioshanna\" during this period.\n\nAltogether she claimed over 200 previous lives. Much of Unarian cosmology and lore revolves around the past lives of Uriel.\n\nFrom 1954–1974, meetings were held in Ruth Norman's home or at public meeting facilities. In 1972, the channeled messages referred to \"33 worlds of an interplanetary confederation\". These worlds all had various problems and by communicating with Ioshanna, many of their hang-ups were solved or on the way to resolution.\n\nRuth became an exuberant visionary, and with help rapidly increased the ‘messages from space’. In 1973, she became known as ‘Uriel the Archangel’ said to be her ‘higher self’ and to stand for Universal, Radiant Infinite Eternal Light.\n\nIn November 1973, Uriel purchased 67 acres in Jamul, California, for a proposed landing site for the Space Brothers.\n\nIn 1974, in the \"Tesla Speaks\" volumes, Uriel completely redefined the Unarian mission by introducing the concept of the Interplanetary Confederation and the prophecy of a 33 vehicle spacefleet landing, in which she began to play the role of cosmic emissary uniting the confederation. The media joined in, the landing date was revised, and eventually pushed back to 2001. All unfulfilled prophecies were explained as being a reliving of Unarian past lives in the Isis-Osiris cycle.\n\nIn 1975, the organization moved its base from Glendale, California to El Cajon, California where a store front center was opened. Unarius was also incorporated as a non-profit, tax-exempt, educational foundation. In El Cajon, Uriel became well known for driving a blue 1969 Cadillac Coupe d’Ville adorned with airbrushed depictions of spaceships with a large metal flying saucer on the roof; the car remains with Unarius and is driven every year in the annual El Cajon Mother Goose Parade.\n\nIn 1976, ‘past life’ therapy (called ‘psychic group therapy’) became formalised as part of the curriculum, eventually became the main activity of students, and was regarded as a healing practice. The content of Unarian belief increased as these revelations evolved into collective biographies of members who are believed to have acted under Uriel on Earth and many other planets throughout millennia. Tumminia comments that this type of collective weaving of past-life narratives as a regular practice of intersubjectivity may be unique to Unarius.\n\nMost Unariuns were skeptical about the future predictions of a spacefleet landing, also channeled by Louis Spiegel. Many Unariuns felt that these predictions undermined the original mission of Ernest Norman and a falling out occurred. Circa 1980, Thomas Miller, the primary sub-channel, left the organization, leaving Louis Spiegel as the only sub-channel. From this point forward, ever more activities revolved around these predictions. Ruth Norman, now 80, participated less and less in the goings on at the center and so Unariuns turned primarily to Louis Spiegel (aka \"Antares\", \"Vaughn\" and \"Charles\") for guidance and instruction.\n\nIn the early 1970s, a \"Conclave of Light\" celebration was staged at the U.S. Grant Hotel in San Diego, California and repeated yearly at different venues, and after 1975, at the Unarius center in El Cajon, California. Every October, they stage their \"Interplanetary Conclave of Light\", which will include a visit to the Jamul landing site, the release of white doves, and 90 minutes of \"mental communication with the Space Brothers.\"\n\nIn the late 70s, Unarius started to make films and videos.\n\nUnarius generally has two types of students: the followers of Ernest Norman's original texts and works and those who believe in every channeling that occurred after his death. The latter group is often blamed by the former for the ridicule and mockery the organization has received by the general public since the early 1980s and more so in the Internet age for the conversion of the group to a \"flying saucer group.\"\n\nThe Unarius center reached its heyday in the 80s.\n\nThe early eighties brought about the development of a video production studio and the marketing of Unarius videos through public-access television cable TV channels all over the nation. From a public relations standpoint, Unarius made big inroads during this period, with new centers being opened up in the United States, Canada and Nigeria. During this period, the public identity of the organization changed from one which was teaching a \"metaphysical science of life\" to that of a \"flying saucer group.\"\n\nIn 1984, Uriel declared Spiegel to have overcome his past negative karma as the Fallen Angel, Satan, and renamed Him Antares. Subsequently, he channeled elements of the millenarian prophecy, including a new planet Myton which would send a spaceship in the year 2001 In 1984, Unarius also held its first annual Interplanetary Confederation Day (later called the Conclave of Light), which commemorates the ‘union of the planets under the guidance of Uriel'.\n\nAltogether, Uriel directed the organisation for two decades and published over 80 books.\n\nUriel broke her hip in 1988 and the next year her health began to slip.\n\nRuth Norman, after several falls and surgeries in the late eighties, had more limited physical contact with the students and members but said she was \"psychically\" communicating with them on a day-to-day basis.\n\nUriel became bedridden, rarely visiting the center herself, and let members know that her work was over. She died in 1993. Her death disconfirmed a long-held prophecy that the landing would take place in her lifetime. Her will stated that she would return with the Space Brothers in 2001. Louis Spiegel assumed leadership in the organization.\n\nAfter Ruth's death and into the 1990s, some long-term students left over disagreements with Antares. These members wished to return focus to the original teachings of Ernest Norman and the more scientific aspects of Unarius. Some students disputed the importance of Uriel and prophecies concerning her.\n\nSpiegel died in December 1999, and in 2000, a board of directors formed to guide the center. The board legitimated its cooperative authority through channeled messages, in particular from Uriel and Antares, who are now ‘Space Brothers’. Channeling ‘explained’ that the Space Brothers are actually guiding the world invisibly and cannot become visible until the world becomes less warlike. Routinisation of charisma in this organisation thus proceeded smoothly, 'channelled advice' and the invocation of 'past-life memories' confirming the need for cooperation.\n\nStudents also left or became home-study students because they disagreed with the channelings of Louis Spiegel, particularly one which claimed that it was time for Ruth, then quite ill but still living, to return to the unseen world. This was in complete opposition to previously expounded Unariun principle, wherein members, no matter how far advanced, \"never\" engaged in interfering with or predicting future human activities. Many Unariuns perceived this as a power-grab against Ruth Norman. In the belief system of the school, this was related to a \"negative reliving\" of a previous existence, creating false, negative messages.\n\nRuth Norman has been criticized for her flamboyance and costumes worn in later years. Alex Heard, in \"Apocalypse Pretty Soon: Travels In End-Time America\" , quipped of her that she was, \"a true American original who combined the couture sensibilities of a drag queen with the \"joie de vivre\" of a Frisbee-chasing Irish Setter.\"\n\nTumminia stated in the year 2000, that the local public access channels carried weekly showings of Unarian films in several cities in Southern California.\n\nWith 2001 having come and gone, and no space fleet landing having occurred, Unarius as an organization demonstrates both a returning to its roots and the principles, books and works of Ernest Norman, while simultaneously demonstrating a belief in a future landing by extraterrestrials to assist humankind. With the passing of Louis Spiegel in late 1999, the organization has formed a small council which shares leadership and management responsibilities.\n\nUnarius continues to be active both in the US and in several European countries.\n\nAccording to Zeller, the millennial aspect of Unarius reverted to a more privatised rapture-oriented mIllennialism after the death of Uriel. He stated that this more individualised approach confirms the quasi-rapture orientation of Ernest Norman.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12753036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12753036", "title": "University of Life Sciences in Poznań", "text": "University of Life Sciences in Poznań\n\nThe University of Life Sciences in Poznań (, literally \"University of Nature in Poznań\") is a higher-education institution in Poznań, Poland. It officially gained university status on 11 April 2008. Its previous name was \"Akademia Rolnicza im. Augusta Cieszkowskiego w Poznaniu\", literally \"August Cieszkowski Agricultural Academy in Poznań\", although it styled itself in English as \"The August Cieszkowski Agricultural University of Poznań\".\n\nThe institution was established in 1951 from Agriculture and Forestry faculties which had existed since 1919 at Adam Mickiewicz University.\n\nThe university has faculties of Agronomy, Forestry, Animal Breeding and Biology, Wood Technology, Horticulture, Food Science and Nutrition, Land Reclamation and Environmental Engineering, and Economics and Social Sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12843626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12843626", "title": "When Women Rule the World", "text": "When Women Rule the World\n\nWhen Women Rule the World is an announced reality television series originally announced to premiere on Fox Broadcasting in spring 2007, then pushed to June 2, 2008, then delayed again in April 2008. However, the show never aired in the United States.\n\nThe show consisted of 12 women and 12 men sent to a \"primitive location\" where the men were forced to be subservient to the women. The women voted off one man per week. The final man left was awarded $250,000. Cast members include Carla Turco, Jacky Reres, Karen Mangeney, Mike Babassi, Robbie Kaller. The show was hosted by Judi Shekoni.\n\nThe show was broadcast in Finland on MTV3 and in Belgium on PLUG RTL (summer 2010).\n\nThe United Kingdom's Channel 4 negotiated with Fox for a license to make a British version of the show, which aired for eight weeks starting on 4 September 2008. The UK version was filmed in the Dominican Republic and hosted by Steve Jones.\n\nThe show consisted of eight women and ten men. Ed won the competition, beating G-Range in the final. His prize was £30,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29315152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29315152", "title": "William Dathan Holbert", "text": "William Dathan Holbert\n\nWilliam Dathan Holbert (born September 12, 1979), also known as Wild Bill, is a self-confessed murderer from Hendersonville, North Carolina. He is currently serving a 47-year sentence for the killings of five Americans in Panama.\n\nProsecutors allege Holbert, a former associate of the National Alliance, confessed to killing five people in Panama and one person in Costa Rica to get their money and properties. Prosecutors say Holbert befriended the victims, shot them in the head, buried their bodies, and then stole their homes and businesses.\n\nHolbert and his ex-wife, Laura Michelle Reese, were arrested by authorities as they attempted to make their way into Nicaragua via Costa Rica on July 26, 2010.\n\nHolbert now operates and chairs \"Los Reos Unificados,\" a syndicated Christian inmate organization, on the national level in the Republic of Panama. Holbert also operates \"Panama Human Rights,\" an international human rights organization for prisoners. In September 2014, Holbert's lawyer issued a statement saying that Holbert had been appointed Chaplain of the Catholic Church in the Public Jail of David; however, the Directorate General for Prisons immediately issued a statement of denial indicating that was not the case.\n\nSix years after his confession for the killing five people in Panama, the Superior Court of the province of Chiriqui in Panama set a trial date for Dec. 5 2016.\n\nHolbert was sentenced to 47 years on the 14th of August 2017 for the killings of the five victims in Panama.\n\n\"Dateline NBC\" season 20 episode 7 \"Rescue on the Mountainside/Stealing Paradise\", original air date October 2010. Kate Snow investigates Cher Hughe, a resident of Panama and her ties to Holbert and Reese's criminal ways.\n\nIn 2016, a detailed account of Holbert's crimes written by Nick Foster, \"The Jolly Roger Social Club: A True Story of a Killer in Paradise\", was published.\n\n"}
{"id": "90811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90811", "title": "Wopkaimin people", "text": "Wopkaimin people\n\nThe Wopkaimin are a small aboriginal tribe that lives in the remote Star Mountains in western Papua New Guinea in what is known as the Fly River socio-ecological region. The tribe speaks Faiwol. The Ok Tedi Mine, the third largest open pit copper and gold mine in the world is located in their traditional territory. Before the coming of the mine with construction starting in 1981 the Wopkaimin lived in a subsistence economy. The mine severely impacted the tribe, totally disrupting their traditional patterns of life. For one thing, Tabubil a town of 12,500 to house mine workers was built in the midst of their territory. Work for wages was available to tribal members, but only at the unskilled level and not on a regular basis. The Wopkaimin along with many other ethnic groups living in the area now live on a rotating basis between the town of Tabubil, roadside villages along the Kiunga-Tabubil Highway, and in villages away from the mine as jobs are lost or become available.\n\nIn 1992 a species of bat, Bulmer's fruit bat (\"Aproteles bulmerae\") previously thought extinct was discovered to still live in Luplupwintem Cave, an enormous cave above the Hindenburg Wall in their territory. This bat was first discovered in the 1970s by David Hyndman, who studied the Wopkaimin. However the contemporaneous introduction of the shotgun was thought to have resulted in the extinction of the species.\n\n"}
{"id": "987165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=987165", "title": "Yevanic language", "text": "Yevanic language\n\nYevanic, also known as Judæo-Greek, Romaniyot, Romaniote, and Yevanitika is a Greek dialect formerly used by the Romaniotes and by the Constantinopolitan Karaites (In this case the language is called Karaitika or Karæo-Greek). The Romaniotes are a group of Greek Jews whose presence in the Levant is documented since the Byzantine period. Its linguistic lineage stems from the Jewish Koine spoken primarily by Hellenistic Jews throughout the region, and includes Hebrew and Aramaic elements. It was mutually intelligible with the Greek dialects of the Christian population. The Romaniotes used the Hebrew alphabet to write Greek and Yevanic texts. Judaeo-Greek has had in its history different spoken variants depending on different eras, geographical and sociocultural backgrounds. The oldest Modern Greek text, has been found in the Cairo Geniza and is actually a Jewish translation of the book Ecclesiastes (Kohelet). \n\nThe term \"Yevanic\" is an artificial creation from the Biblical word \"Yāwān\" referring to the Greeks and the lands that the Greeks inhabited. The term is an overextension of the Greek word Ἰωνία (Ionia in English) from the (then) easternmost Greeks to all Greeks. The word for Greece in modern Israeli Hebrew is \"Yavan\"; likewise, the word \"yevanit\" is used to refer to the modern Greek language in Hebrew.\n\nA small number of Romaniote Jews in the United States, Israel, Greece and Turkey have small knowledge of the Judaeo-Greek language.\nThe language is highly endangered and could completely die out. There are no preservation programs to promote or to revive the language.\nThere are about 35 speakers left in Israel, the majority are located in Jerusalem.\n\nGreece, Constantinople, Asia Minor, Southern Italy, the Balkans and Eastern Europe had originally a Greek-speaking Jewish community. After the arrival of Jewish refugees into these areas from the Iberian Peninsula, Northern Italy and Western Europe the Greek-speaking Jewish communities began to almost disappear while integrating into the group of the newcomers which did not constituted in every area of their new homeland the majority.\n\nThe immigration of Italian and Spanish-speaking people into Greece in the late 15th century altered the culture and vernacular of the Greek Jews. A lot locales picked up on Judeo-Spanish language and customs, however some communities in Epirus, Thessaly, the Ionian Islands, Crete, Constantinople and Asia Minor kept the old, so-called \"Romaniote minhag\" and the Judaeo-Greek language. By the early 20th century, the Jews living in places such as Ioannina, Arta, Preveza, and Chalkida still spoke a form of Greek that slightly differentiated the Greek of their Christian neighbors. These differences, semantically, do not go beyond phonetic, intonational, and lexical phenomena. It is different from other Jewish languages, in that there is no knowledge of any language fragmentation ever taking place.\n\nThe assimilation of the Romaniote communities by the Ladino-speaking Sephardi Jews, the emigration of many of the Romaniotes to the United States and Israel, the murder of many of the Romaniotes during the Holocaust have been the main reasons of the decline of Judao-Greek. The survivors were too scant to continue an environment in which this language was dominant and more recent generations of the survivors have moved to new locations such as Greece, Israel, and The United States and now speak the respective languages of those countries; Standard Modern Greek, Hebrew, and English \n\nThe Jews have a place of note in the history of Modern Greek. They were unaffected by Atticism and employed the current colloquial vernacular which they then transcribed in Hebrew letters. The Romaniotes were Jews settled in the Eastern Roman Empire long before its division from its Western counterpart, and they were linguistically assimilated long before leaving the Levant after Hadrian's decree against them and their religion. As a consequence, they spoke Greek, the language of the overwhelming majority of the populace in the beginning of the Byzantine era and that of the Greek élite thereafter, until the fall of the Ottoman Empire. Some communities in Northern Greece and Crete maintained their specific Romaniote practices since these communities were either geographically apart from the Sephardim or had different synagogues, and because their liturgies differed greatly. At the end of the 19th century, the Romaniote community of Greece made an effort to preserve the Romaniote liturgical heritage of Ioannina and Arta, by printing various liturgical texts in the Hebrew printing presses of Salonika.\n\nThere is a small amount of literature in Yevanic dating from the early part of the modern period, the most extensive document being a translation of the Pentateuch. A polyglot edition of the Bible published in Constantinople in 1547 has the Hebrew text in the middle of the page, with a Ladino (Judaeo-Spanish) translation on one side and a Yevanic translation on the other.\nIn its context, this exceptional cultivation of the vernacular has its analogue in the choice of Hellenistic Greek by the translators of the Septuagint and in the New Testament.\n\n\n\nOn Judaeo-Greek\nOn Karaeo-Greek\n"}
