{"id": "6735182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6735182", "title": "Advanced General Aviation Transport Experiments", "text": "Advanced General Aviation Transport Experiments\n\nThe Advanced General Aviation Transport Experiments (AGATE) project was a consortium of NASA, the FAA, the general aviation industry and a number of universities. Its goal was to create a Small Aviation Transportation System (SATS) as an alternative to short-range automotive trips for both private and business transportation needs. The Small Aviation Transportation System will make many time-sensitive short-haul trips more affordable for business, medical, public safety and recreational pursuits.\n\nThe AGATE Alliance was launched in 1994 and born out of an effort to stem the gradual decline of general aviation innovation in the United States. It played an instrumental role in the forging of joint technology development and testing partnerships between Government, industry and vital non-profit contributors.\n\nThe AGATE Alliance was organized as an operating partnership between government, industry, and academia established to develop new ways of reviving the troubled general aviation industry. The partnership is the product of two years of government-industry collaboration. The Alliance, composed of representatives from each partnership sector, has been formed to give the revitalization effort formal structure. It will also leverage and focus resources for higher risk efforts with higher payoffs.\n\nGeneral aviation, defined as all flying except the military services and commercial airlines, had fallen from its position of economic prominence in the late 1970s to record lows in the mid-1980s before recovering in the late 1990s. American GA aircraft production numbers declined down from 18,000 in 1978 to 954 in 1993, an all-time low. Regulatory restrictions, liability claims and a withering of the product innovation pipeline took their toll on the industry, driving up prices and causing some businesses to file for bankruptcy.\n\nApproximately 70 U.S. aviation-related organizations and companies, including NASA, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), private industry, academia, and non-profit organizations, agreed to reverse these downward trends. Together, this consortium worked to develop safer, more affordable aircraft and user-friendly flight systems that promise to improve pilot training and simplify operations in and near congested airports.\n\nThe AGATE Alliance design was generated by the American Technology Initiative, Inc. (AmTech), a California non-profit corporation retained by NASA to organize and operationally support public/private technology alliances. The AGATE Alliance was finalized by negotiations between AmTech staff members, NASA, and the many alliance participants.\n\nA significant first technology step toward an effective partnership was taken in the spring of 1995, with the first meeting of the AGATE Alliance with the government program managers directed by the head of the General Aviation Program Office at the NASA Langley Research Center, Dr. Bruce J. Holmes. Langley was designated as the lead NASA research center for the general aviation program.\n\nThe AGATE Alliance was designed by a team from American Technology Alliances and consisted of two parts: an industry consortium called the \"AGATE Alliance Association, Inc\" composed of three categories of members from 31 states, 40 principal members from industry, 6 associate members from industry and universities, and 30 supporting members from universities, industry and non-profit organizations, and a NASA General Aviation Program Office (GAPO) that coordinated Federal input from the FAA and DOD. The dual structure created a public/private partnership. It was one of the largest public/private membership alliances in the United States.\n\nThe purpose of AGATE was to enable market growth for inter-city transportation in small aircraft. AGATE aimed to make single-pilot, light airplanes more safe, affordable and available as a viable part of the nation's transportation system. AGATE targets trips of 150 to 700 miles - round trips that are too far to complete in a day and too short to efficiently use the hub-and-spoke system.\n\nThe Alliance was initiated from a meeting between NASA administrator Daniel S. Goldin and industry representatives at the Experimental Aircraft Association Convention in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, in AGATE management, as a joint government-industry effort, was initiated in response to the Clinton Administration and Congress' commitment to \"reinventing government.\"NASA retained American Technology Alliances to design the AGATE Alliance. Paul Masson of American Technology Alliances led a team of five individuals that worked for one year with NASA, the FAA and general aviation industry members to formulate the Alliance. A private sector R&D syndicated partnership model was used in which the AGATE members shared resources and risks to make the market \"pie\" bigger for everyone. Leadership was also shared. Costs were shared 50/50 between government and industry. The focus was on commercializing advanced concepts through joint ventures in order to produce greater results.\n\nThe forming of the Alliance, which had 100+ Members in 31 States at its peak, was also welcomed by the FAA. \"General aviation is an integral part of the air traffic system architecture. AGATE is in the right place at the right time to support modernization of the system for GA,\" said Dr. George F. Donohue, FAA associate administrator for research and systems acquisition.\n\nThe Alliance operated under a unique process called the Joint Sponsored Research Agreement (JSRA). Research conducted under a JSRA permits building collaborative projects in a broader scale than permissible under the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR), and used the stronger reporting and accountability standards of private sector joint research projects. The Alliance, according to Holmes, was unique in the sense that it served as a \"blueprint\" to map out the Government's research and development support for GA innovation revitalization. It provided industry with more flexibility and gave it the opportunity to take greater risks with higher payoff, faster speed of technology transfer, control of proprietary and shared technologies, and reduced cost and more efficient use of scarce research and development resources.\n\nAGATE was intended to foster revenue growth and job creation in the areas of manufacturing, sales, training, service, support and operations industries within the U.S. small airport infrastructure. The program focuses on the development of new GA technologies including bad weather flight and landing systems, complete with graphic displays of weather and guidance information; emergency coping and avoidance measures that use on-board systems to support decision-making; traffic avoidance systems; systems that reduce the flight planning workload and enhance passenger safety; and systems designed to improve passenger comfort, aircraft performance and efficiency. The success of AGATE will be measured in terms of increases in pilot population, flight hours, airport utilization and new aircraft deliveries.\n\nThe 1996 Summer Olympic Games in Atlanta provided a rare opportunity to evaluate technologies developed as part of AGATE and, in the process, help transport goods and provide public safety services by helicopter during the July 19 through August 4 Games.\n\nAGATE Alliance members contributed to a government-industry initiative known as the Atlanta Short-haul Transportation System (ASTS), (now called Operation Heli-Star). The ASTS program was responsible for fostering both air and ground transportation during the Olympics and integrating the two into one efficient transportation system.\n\nAGATE Alliance members provided special airborne equipment and ground monitoring stations that enabled the ASTS program to operate safely and efficiently. AGATE's participation in the Atlanta Olympics was managed by the AGATE Flight Systems industry team coordinated by NASA Langley Research Center.\n\nUp to 50 helicopters equipped with AGATE-designed avionics participated, proving communications, navigation and surveillance concepts, some integrated in flight for the first time. The initial plan projected collecting more than 1,400 hours of flight data on operational use and human factors during the Olympic Games.\n\nMost of the critical flight operations were conducted in \"uncontrolled\" air space outside Atlanta's radar coverage area, hence the need for predetermined flight pathways. While flying over concrete highways on the ground, selected helicopters flew electronic \"highways in the sky,\" shown on an onboard computerized map of the Atlanta area. The composite image was generated on the helicopter using an onboard database and replicated on ground consoles. The pilot saw GPS-based position updates provided via digital radio data links.\n\nThis technology effort aided participating pilots in the safe and efficient conduct of their missions and additionally benefited ground personnel by indicating the precise location of aircraft to facilitate their timely deployment to satisfy high priority transportation and emergency response needs during the Olympics.\n\nNASA coordinated small, entrepreneurial general aviation businesses into the AGATE Alliance to match their high rate of innovation with the systems engineering leadership of NASA Langley personnel and the certification experience of major general aviation aircraft manufacturers. NASA's Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) pilot program monitored and adjusted their research topics according to an overall AGATE research roadmap that was annually approved by a joint industry-government Executive Council. The programs offered small businesses the opportunity to transfer NASA and other government-funded research and technology into the marketplace. The SBIR/STTR general aviation programs generated targeted innovations that both supported the NASA general aviation mission and served the nation's efforts in enhancing the general aviation industry innovation capacity. Between 1994 and 2009, NASA awarded an estimated 65 Phase I and 22 Phase II SBIR/STTR awards related to general aviation in excess of $18 million to approximately 50 general aviation companies. The NASA general aviation office offered companies that are awarded NASA SBIR or STTR contracts to participate in the AGATE Alliance as Associate members.\n\nIn presenting the awards for the first General Aviation Design Competition in 1995, NASA Administrator Dan Goldin cited the value of engaging US engineering students in \"innovative design education in general aviation\" and encouraging universities to be partners in creating \"a small aircraft transport system for the nation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12361798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12361798", "title": "Auckland CBD", "text": "Auckland CBD\n\nThe Auckland central business district (CBD), also called the city centre by Auckland Council, is the geographical and economic heart of the Auckland metropolitan area. The area is made up of the city's largest concentration of skyscrapers and businesses.\n\nThe CBD is one of the most densely developed places in New Zealand, with many commercial and some residential developments packed into a space of only . Bounded by several major motorways and by the harbour coastline in the north, it is surrounded further out by mostly suburban areas.\n\nLocated on the northern shore of a narrow isthmus, the CBD extends from the Auckland waterfront on the Waitematā Harbour southwards along Queen Street and a number of other parallel-running streets. The CBD is generally considered to be bounded by the main motorways that surround all non-harbour sides, with State Highway 1 forming the southern and western boundaries, and State Highway 16 / Grafton Gully forming the eastern boundary.\n\nThe CBD has an area of , similar to the Sydney CBD, and twice as large as the CBDs of Wellington and Christchurch. The CBD is to a substantial part located on reclaimed land of the Waitematā Harbour. For a closer discussion of this aspect, see the Commercial Bay and Auckland waterfront articles.\n\nThe town of Auckland was created in 1840 with the first European colonisation of the area, marked by an official ceremony on the now non-existent Point Britomart. The initial centre of the new town was focused on what is now the corner of Shortland and Queen Streets, which was at the shoreline of Commercial Bay. From approximately their junction, the main wharf ran north off the end of Queen Street, with Shortland Street leading up to Fort Britomart and Government House, around which many of the richer people built houses. Shortland Street tended to be the location of the more important businesses and most of the 'luxury' shops of the mid 19th century. The 1850s onwards saw an increasing number of businesses, and especially retail, locating further south along Queen Street, which still to this day forms the 'spine' of the area.\n\nIn 1841, one year after the European founding, the census counted approximately 2,000 people, with \"mechanics\" the largest group at 250, and other groups of note being 150 agricultural labourers, 100 shopkeepers, 100 domestic servants, and 125 \"upper class members\".\n\nDuring the remainder of the 19th century, Commercial Bay was progressively filled in, allowing a northward extension of Queen Street and the creation of Fort Street, Customs Street, and Quay Street. The part of Queen Street north of Customs Street is today referred to informally as Lower Queen Street.\n\nAs well as being the location of a great many multi-storey warehouses, initially the Lower Queen Street area also contained many manufacturing businesses, though many of these started to move to other areas such as Freeman's Bay, Newton and Parnell, especially if they took up a lot of room (such as timber yards) or created noise or pollution (such as brick yards or foundries). Up until the middle of the 20th century the centre of town still contained a large number of small factories including clothing manufacturers.\n\nThe relocation of industries to outlying suburbs became especially pronounced in the 1950s, partly due to incentives made by council planners to create industrial areas in Penrose and Rosebank Road (amongst others) and thus rid the inner city area of noise, pollution and heavy traffic. This was mirrored by the development of suburban shopping malls (the first being LynnMall in 1963) which enticed retailers to vacate the inner city as well. Attempts by the council to halt this pattern by constructing numerous public car parking buildings met with varying success. The rise of suburban supermarket and mall shopping that was created in places such as Pakuranga from 1965 onwards has been added to by the appearance of Big Box retailers in places such as Botany and the North Shore.\n\nResidential numbers in the inner city (including the inner suburbs) were also declining in the 20th century from as early as the 1920s. In the two-mile zone surrounding the CBD, there were approximately 70,000 people in 1926, with only around 50,000 in 1966 - a change made even more marked by the development of the remainder of Auckland's population, which grew more than fourfold in the same timeframe. In the 1990s, only a token population of around 1,400 was still residing within the CBD, though this was to grow substantially with a boom of new apartment buildings around the turn of the millennium. Around 24,000 apartment units exist as of 2010.\n\nThe CBD of Auckland has been the leading centre of New Zealand's business and economic development for nearly two centuries. The area of today's CBD was the site of the original European settlement of Auckland, oriented along the coastline and then Queen Street, in a southward direction. From those origins, it has grown progressively, and become much more densely built-up, now being an area of high-rise buildings mainly used for commercial and retail uses. It has the highest concentration of arts, culture and higher education institutions and venues in the country.\n\nSome commentators have noted that the recent decades have not been kind to the aesthetics and the community values of the inner city. The demolishing of many older buildings, often the prerequisite for low-quality or uninspired new office and residential developments, is considered by them to be due to a combination of developers uninterested in long-term outcomes and Council planning direction being too weak.\n\nIn an attempt to reverse the decline of aesthetics in the CBD, previous Auckland City Councils and the current unitary Auckland Council have instigated several urban regeneration schemes. These include the recent redevelopment of Aotea Square in 2010 and the upgrade of Saint Patrick's Square in 2009.\nThe area east of the Britomart Transport Centre is currently undergoing major changes, with the development of new commercial buildings, development of public spaces and restoration of several heritage buildings. Another major regeneration scheme currently underway is the redevelopment of Wynyard Quarter, which involves replacing industrial facilities covering a large portion of the CBD waterfront with residential or commercial buildings and public spaces.\n\nThe Auckland CBD is one of the few places in New Zealand that has skyscraper-sized buildings, such as the Vero Centre, ANZ Centre or the Metropolis, with the Sky Tower rising above them.\n\nResidential high-density buildings constructed within the last decade have helped to increase the population living in the CBD to around 40,000 (2010 estimate) from earlier 16,000 (2004 estimate), all being growth from only 1,400 in 1991. Much of this growth has been driven by immigration to New Zealand, particularly from Asia, and the CBD is the area in New Zealand with the highest percentage share (32%) of the Asian ethnic group in New Zealand. Also striking is the high number of students (both tertiary education and overseas students studying English in one of the many institutes), making up 27% of all residents (2001 Census) and contributing to the relative youth of the city residents.\n\nWith increasing population, available services have also changed - from only about one superette in the early 2000s, this has ballooned to one supermarket and 38 superettes by 2011. In early 2012, two major supermarket chains opened a branch in the city centre, with Countdown opening on Victoria Street in January and New World opening a branch on Queen Street in early March. However, the population remains highly focused on ethnically diverse, mostly young and childless residents.\n\nAccording to an in-depth study of security perception in the Auckland CBD undertaken in 2005, most visitors and locals feel safe visiting and living in the CBD. Police and the Council have in part ascribed these positive feelings to over a dozen safety initiatives undertaken by authorities (from alcohol bans in parts of the CBD to CCTV surveillance and street lighting measures). However, in spite of the general perception of the CBD being safe, there was a feeling that crime had risen somewhat in the last five years (whereas in fact numbers had declined). This was considered to be mostly due to a media-driven public image.\n\nWith 8,500 businesses, the CBD accounts for 18% of all businesses in Auckland City, with the largest being Ports of Auckland, and the largest employment sectors being financial services, business and ICT services. The CBD is also the largest employment centre in New Zealand, with around 65,000 jobs, representing 13% of the regional workforce, and 25% of the Auckland City workforce. Around 73,000 people enter the CBD every morning between 7 am and 9 am, 60% of these by car, while the total 'turnover' is around 270,000 people per day. In 2003 many large corporations were housed in the Auckland CBD. During the same year, an Auckland City report stated that the Auckland CBD, compared to several central business districts in Australia, had \"a broader and more dominant role in its regional economy\" compared to the economies of the Australian central business districts.\n\nThe CBD remains attractive to shops, partially due to the very high pedestrian numbers on the main shopping streets like Queen Street, where footfalls are estimated to be up to 10 times as high as on Broadway in Newmarket, seen as Queen Street's closest rival.\n\nAuckland CBD has a higher share of employment in large firms than other areas in Auckland. Over half of the large firms in Auckland CBD are in office-based sectors (such as property and business services and finance and insurance) and are in the Downtown and Waterfront areas of the CBD. In 2004 Auckland CBD had 72,540 employees and 9125 businesses. 2006 Auckland CBD had 78,444 employees and 9,461 businesses.\n\nAir New Zealand was formerly headquartered in Auckland CBD. In 2006, from late September to early October, the airline moved employees out of the four buildings it occupied in Auckland CBD and relocated them to the new headquarters in the Wynyard Quarter. In September 2003 Air New Zealand was the only one of the very largest corporations in New Zealand to have its headquarters within the Auckland CBD.\n\nThere are significant educational institutions located in the Auckland CBD, notably the University of Auckland and the Auckland University of Technology. The CBD also has many of the English language schools for foreigners which form a significant part of Auckland's education business.\n\nThe Ministry of Education operates state-operated schools throughout the area. Private secondary schools within the CBD include ACG New Zealand International College, ACG Senior College, and Auckland International College.\n\nThe CBD, with its substantial employment, and increasing number of residents, contains the main public transport hubs of the city. These services are concentrated around the Britomart Transport Centre (rail and buses) and the nearby Auckland Ferry Terminal, both near the Auckland waterfront. Many bus services travel the length of the CBD along the main streets, in particular via the bus lanes on Albert Street and the Central Connector bus priority route. In 2010, around 33,000 people entered the CBD via public transport every day.\n\nHistorically, much of the transport to and around the CBD post-1950s was by private vehicles, partly because the CBD provides numerous parking buildings and parking spaces associated with office buildings, and is almost totally surrounded (and easily accessible) by motorways.\n\nAuckland Council has begun the construction phase of the City Rail Link. Once completed, it will connect the Britomart transport hub more directly to the Western Line in the vicinity of Mount Eden Train Station by way of a tunnel running under the CBD. Two new stations will be constructed, one at Aotea Square and one on Karangahape Road, and the existing stations at each end of the link, Britomart and Mount Eden, will receive substantial upgrades.\n\nThe main street of the CBD is Queen Street, which was upgraded between 2006 and 2008 to modernise it and make it more pedestrian friendly. \nIn 2009, the former Auckland City Council proposed the redevelopment of several CBD streets into shared spaces, with the goal of improving pedestrian and cyclist amenity by slowing down vehicle traffic while retaining the possibility for car access - compared to a pedestrian mall which allows no motor vehicles. Auckland Council is continuing this project. Darby Street, Lorne Street, Fort Street, Jean Batten Place, and Fort Lane have been converted into shared spaces since 2011. The portion of Federal Street between Wellesley Street West and Victoria Street West has also been made shared space.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1361361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1361361", "title": "Bill Gammell", "text": "Bill Gammell\n\nSir William Benjamin Bowring Gammell FRSE, commonly known as Bill Gammell (born 29 December 1952) is a businessman and former Scottish International rugby player.\n\nBill Gammell was born in Edinburgh, and was the son of an investment banker, who was invited at an early age to join Edinbugh's Ivory & Sime (which was started in the late 1800s with the formation of the British Assets Trust.) Gammell attended Edinburgh's exclusive Fettes College where he was friends and debating partners with future British Prime Minister Tony Blair. The two have remained close friends. After Fettes, Gammell attended the University of Stirling where he obtained a BA in Economics and Accountancy.\n\nGammell played rugby union at county level and for the Scottish national team. A tall winger, he earned five international caps, and played in the game against Japan in 1977 in Tokyo when he scored four tries in the Scots' 74-9 victory.\n\nGammell scored two tries on his debut for Scotland, against Ireland at Murrayfield in 1977.\n\nAfter his rugby career was ended by injury, Gammell followed his father into business. Using venture capital, he founded Cairn Energy in Edinburgh. The company invested in several unsuccessful oilfields in the US before making a modest strike in the Pennsylvania oilfield. Gammell was appointed Cairn's Chief Executive on its initial listing in 1989. In the mid 1990s he led the company in a radical reallocation of its assets, moving out of US and North Sea oil and gas concerns and into neglected fields in South Asia. The company's fortunes soared in 2004, when a field it had bought in 2001 (for $7.5 million) from Shell in the Indian province of Rajasthan was found to contain close to 1.1 billion barrels of oil, catapulting it into the FTSE 100.\n\nGammell was paid an annual salary of £552,000 for his role as chief executive at Cairn Energy. On 1 July 2011 Gammell assumed the role of non-executive chairman.\n\nGammell's father invested in US oil company Bush-Overbey, owned by future US President George H. W. Bush. The two families became friends, with George W. Bush spending the summer at the Gammell's farm in Scotland. George W. attended Bill Gammell's wedding in Glasgow in 1983. The two have remained close friends. When George W. Bush assumed the Presidency, both he and Blair reportedly called their mutual friend Gammell to ask his opinion of the other.\n\nBill Gammell a director of the Scottish Institute of Sport and Artemis AiM VCT plc., and in 2004 he was awarded UK Entrepreneur of the Year. In the 2006 honours list, Gammell was made a Knight Bachelor \"for services to Industry in Scotland\", and in 2017 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\nGammell received an Honorary Doctorate from Heriot-Watt University in 2007 \n\nIn 2011 he was also awarded the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Business Administration by Robert Gordon University.\n\n"}
{"id": "2654847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2654847", "title": "Biopharmaceutical", "text": "Biopharmaceutical\n\nA biopharmaceutical, also known as a biologic(al) medical product, biological, or biologic, is any pharmaceutical drug product manufactured in, extracted from, or semisynthesized from biological sources. Different from totally synthesized pharmaceuticals, they include vaccines, blood, blood components, allergenics, somatic cells, gene therapies, tissues, recombinant therapeutic protein, and living cells used in cell therapy. Biologics can be composed of sugars, proteins, or nucleic acids or complex combinations of these substances, or may be living cells or tissues. They (or their precursors or components) are isolated from living sources—human, animal, plant, fungal, or microbial.\n\nTerminology surrounding biopharmaceuticals varies between groups and entities, with different terms referring to different subsets of therapeutics within the general biopharmaceutical category. Some regulatory agencies use the terms \"biological medicinal products\" or \"therapeutic biological product\" to refer specifically to engineered macromolecular products like protein- and nucleic acid-based drugs, distinguishing them from products like blood, blood components, or vaccines, which are usually extracted directly from a biological source. Specialty drugs, a recent classification of pharmaceuticals, are high-cost drugs that are often biologics. The European Medicines Agency uses the term \"advanced therapy medicinal products\" (ATMPs) for medicines for human use that are \"based on genes, cells, or tissue engineering\", including gene therapy medicines, somatic-cell therapy medicines, tissue-engineered medicines, and combinations thereof. Within EMA contexts, the term \"advanced therapies\" refers specifically to ATMPs, although that term is rather nonspecific outside those contexts.\n\nGene-based and cellular biologics, for example, often are at the forefront of biomedical research, and may be used to treat a variety of medical conditions for which no other treatments are available.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, biologics are regulated via different pathways than other small molecule drugs and medical devices.\n\nThe term biopharmacology is sometimes used to describe the branch of pharmacology that studies biopharmaceuticals.\n\nSome of the oldest forms of biologics are extracted from the bodies of animals, and other humans especially. Important biologics include:\n\n\nSome biologics that were previously extracted from animals, such as insulin, are now more commonly produced by recombinant DNA.\n\nAs indicated the term \"biologics\" can be used to refer to a wide range of biological products in medicine. However, in most cases, the term \"biologics\" is used more restrictively for a class of therapeutics (either approved or in development) that are produced by means of biological processes involving recombinant DNA technology. These medications are usually one of three types:\n\nBiologics as a class of medications in this narrower sense have had a profound impact on many medical fields, primarily rheumatology and oncology, but also cardiology, dermatology, gastroenterology, neurology, and others. In most of these disciplines, biologics have added major therapeutic options for the treatment of many diseases, including some for which no effective therapies were available, and others where previously existing therapies were clearly inadequate. However, the advent of biologic therapeutics has also raised complex regulatory issues (see below), and significant pharmacoeconomic concerns, because the cost for biologic therapies has been dramatically higher than for conventional (pharmacological) medications. This factor has been particularly relevant since many biological medications are used for the treatment of chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis or inflammatory bowel disease, or for the treatment of otherwise untreatable cancer during the remainder of life. The cost of treatment with a typical monoclonal antibody therapy for relatively common indications is generally in the range of €7,000–14,000 per patient per year.\n\nOlder patients who receive biologic therapy for diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, or ankylosing spondylitis are at increased risk for life-threatening infection, adverse cardiovascular events, and malignancy.\n\nThe first such substance approved for therapeutic use was biosynthetic \"human\" insulin made via recombinant DNA. Sometimes referred to as rHI, under the trade name Humulin, was developed by Genentech, but licensed to Eli Lilly and Company, who manufactured and marketed it starting in 1982.\n\nMajor kinds of biopharmaceuticals include:\n\nResearch and development investment in new medicines by the biopharmaceutical industry stood at $65.2 billion in 2008. A few examples of biologics made with recombinant DNA technology include:\n\nMany vaccines are grown in tissue cultures.\n\nViral gene therapy involves artificially manipulating a virus to include a desirable piece of genetic material.\n\nWith the expiration of numerous patents for blockbuster biologics between 2012 and 2019, the interest in biosimilar production, i.e., follow-on biologics, has increased. Compared to small molecules that consist of chemically identical active ingredients, biologics are vastly more complex and consist of a multitude of subspecies. Due to their heterogeneity and the high process sensitivity, originators and follow-on biosimilars will exhibit variability in specific variants over time, however the safety and clinical performance of both originator and biosimilar biopharmaceuticals must remain equivalent throughout their lifecycle. Process variations are monitored by modern analytical tools (e.g., liquid chromatography, immunoassays, mass spectrometry, etc.) and describe a unique design space for each biologic.\n\nThus, biosimilars require a different regulatory framework compared to small-molecule generics. Legislation in the 21st century has addressed this by recognizing an intermediate ground of testing for biosimilars. The filing pathway requires more testing than for small-molecule generics, but less testing than for registering completely new therapeutics.\n\nIn 2003, the European Medicines Agency introduced an adapted pathway for biosimilars, termed \"similar biological medicinal products\". This pathway is based on a thorough demonstration of \"comparability\" of the \"similar\" product to an existing approved product. Within the United States, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 created an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products shown to be biosimilar to, or interchangeable with, an FDA-licensed reference biological product. A major hope linked to the introduction of biosimilars is a reduction of costs to the patients and the healthcare system.\n\nWhen a new biopharmaceutical is developed, the company will typically apply for a patent, which is a grant for exclusive manufacturing rights. This is the primary means by which the developer of the drug can recover the investment cost for development of the biopharmaceutical. The patent laws in the United States and Europe differ somewhat on the requirements for a patent, with the European requirements are perceived as more difficult to satisfy. The total number of patents granted for biopharmaceuticals has risen significantly since the 1970s. In 1978 the total patents granted was 30. This had climbed to 15,600 in 1995, and by 2001 there were 34,527 patent applications. In 2012 the US had the highest IP (Intellectual Property) generation within the biopharmaceutical industry, generating 37 percent of the total number of granted patents worldwide, however, there is still a large margin for growth and innovation within the industry. Revisions to the current IP system to ensure greater reliability for R&D (research and development) investments is a prominent topic of debate in the US as well. Blood products and other human derived biologics like breast milk, have highly regulated or very hard to access markets, therefore, customers generally face a supply shortage for these products due to their nature and often institutions housing these biologics, designated as 'banks', cannot distribute their product to customers effectively. Conversely, banks for reproductive cells are much more widespread and available due to the ease of which spermatozoa and egg cells are able to be used for fertility treatment.\n\nBiopharmaceuticals may be produced from microbial cells (e.g., recombinant \"E. coli\" or yeast cultures), mammalian cell lines (see cell culture) and plant cell cultures (see plant tissue culture) and moss plants in bioreactors of various configurations, including photo-bioreactors. Important issues of concern are cost of production (low-volume, high-purity products are desirable) and microbial contamination (by bacteria, viruses, mycoplasma). Alternative platforms of production which are being tested include whole plants (plant-made pharmaceuticals).\n\nA potentially controversial method of producing biopharmaceuticals involves transgenic organisms, particularly plants and animals that have been genetically modified to produce drugs. This production is a significant risk for the investor, due to production failure or scrutiny from regulatory bodies based on perceived risks and ethical issues. Biopharmaceutical crops also represent a risk of cross-contamination with non-engineered crops, or crops engineered for non-medical purposes.\n\nOne potential approach to this technology is the creation of a transgenic mammal that can produce the biopharmaceutical in its milk, blood, or urine. Once an animal is produced, typically using the pronuclear microinjection method, it becomes efficacious to use cloning technology to create additional offspring that carry the favorable modified genome. The first such drug manufactured from the milk of a genetically modified goat was ATryn, but marketing permission was blocked by the European Medicines Agency in February 2006. This decision was reversed in June 2006 and approval was given August 2006.\n\nIn the European Union, a biological medicinal product is one of the active substance(s) produced from or extracted from a biological (living) system, and requires, in addition to physico-chemical testing, biological testing for full characterisation. The characterisation of a biological medicinal product is a combination of testing the active substance and the final medicinal product together with the production process and its control. For example:\n\nIn the United States, biologics are licensed through the biologics license application (BLA), then submitted to and regulated by the FDA's Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) whereas drugs are regulated by the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research. Approval may require several years of clinical trials, including trials with human volunteers. Even after the drug is released, it will still be monitored for performance and safety risks. The manufacture process must satisfy the FDA's \"Good Manufacturing Practices\", which are typically manufactured in a clean room environment with strict limits on the amount of airborne particles and other microbial contaminants that may alter the efficacy of the drug.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "266502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=266502", "title": "Bureaucrat", "text": "Bureaucrat\n\nA bureaucrat is a member of a bureaucracy and can compose the administration of any organization of any size, although the term usually connotes someone within an institution of government. \n\nThe term \"bureaucrat\" derives from \"bureaucracy\", which in turn derives from the French \"bureaucratie\" first known from the 18th century. Bureaucratic work had already been performed for many centuries. In countries such as India, Pakistan and Bangladesh, bureaucrats are known to be the officers that run the government at ministerial levels as well at district levels.\n\nBureaucrats play various roles in modern society, by virtue of holding administrative, functional, and managerial positions in government. They carryout the day-to-day implementation of enacted policies for central government agencies, such as postal services, education and healthcare administration, and various regulatory bodies.\n\nBureaucrats can be split into different categories based on the system, nationality, and time they come from.\n\nGerman sociologist Max Weber defined a bureaucratic official as the following:\n\n\nAs an academic, Woodrow Wilson, later a US President, professed in his 1887 article \"The Study of Administration\":\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20732298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20732298", "title": "Business rule mining", "text": "Business rule mining\n\nBusiness rule mining is the process of extracting essential intellectual business logic in the form of Business Rules from packaged or Legacy software applications, recasting them in natural or formal language, and storing them in a source rule repository for further analysis or forward engineering. The goal is to capture these legacy business rules in a way that the business can validate, control and change them over time. \n\nBusiness rule mining supports a Business rules approach, which is defined as a formal way of managing and automating an organization's business rules so that the business behaves and evolves as its leaders intend. \n\nIt is also commonly conducted as part of an application modernization project evolving legacy software applications to service oriented architecture (SOA) solutions, transitioning to packaged software, redeveloping new in-house applications, or to facilitate knowledge retention and communication between business and IT professionals in a maintenance environment.\n\nAlternative approaches to rule mining are manual and automated. \n\nA manual approach involves the hand-writing of rules on the basis of subject matter expert interviews and the inspection of source code, job flows, data structures and observed behavior. \n\nManually extracting rules is complicated by the difficulty of locating and understanding highly interdependent logic that has been interwoven into millions of lines of software code. \n\nAn automated approach utilizes repository-based software to locate logical connections inherent within applications and extract them into a predetermined business rules format.\n\nWith automation, an effective approach is to apply semantic structures to existing applications. By overlaying business contexts onto legacy applications, rules miners can focus effort on discovering rules from systems that are valuable to the business. Effort is redirected away from mining commoditized or irrelevant applications. \n\nFurther, best practices coupled with various tool-assisted techniques of capturing programs’ semantics speeds the transformation of technical rules to true business rules. Adding business semantics to the analysis process allows users to abstract technical concepts and descriptors that are normal in an application to a business level that is consumable by a rules analyst. \n\nSystem integrators, software vendors, rules mining practitioners, and in-house development teams have developed technologies, proprietary methodologies and industry-specific templates for application modernization and business rule mining.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4892098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4892098", "title": "Clive Calder", "text": "Clive Calder\n\nClive Ian Calder (born 13 December 1946) is a South African-born British billionaire record executive and businessman primarily known for co-founding the Zomba Group with Ralph Simon, and its subsidiary Jive Records.\n\nCalder was born in Johannesburg, South Africa, and grew up there, off Louis Botha Avenue. \n\nCalder started his first record company in 1971 in South Africa. By 1975 they had relocated to London and had begun Zomba as an artist and producer management company. By 1978 Zomba had expanded to include publishing, and opened offices in New York City. In 1981 they formed their first record label Jive and Calder began to create a name for Jive as an important outlet for hip hop and rap. \n\nJive's success was followed by Silvertone Records in 1988 and countless others throughout the nineties. After an unspecified \"ethical disagreement,\" Calder bought Simon's stake in Zomba and became the sole owner in 1990. In the late nineties, Jive expanded its success to include teen pop phenomenons such as Backstreet Boys, *NSYNC and Britney Spears, all of which topped the charts. In 2002 he sold Zomba for US$2.74 billion to the German-based media group Bertelsmann. Though he was offered a position within the BMG, he instead chose to stay on temporarily as an advisor during the integration period, but left the business in 2003. The Zomba Label Group, which had been founded by BMG as parent for all Zomba labels in 2004, was integrated with all its labels into BMG Label Group in 2007, while at the same time the Zomba brand ceased to exist. In 2009 the group was renamed as RCA/Jive Label Group under Sony Music, in October 2011 Jive Records, as well as the whole Jive brand, was discontinued, with their most artists being moved to RCA Records and partly to Epic Records.\n\nCalder is married, with two children, and lives in the Cayman Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "10738243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10738243", "title": "Costică Canacheu", "text": "Costică Canacheu\n\nCostică Canacheu (born October 15, 1958) is a Romanian politician and businessman. A participant in the 1989 Revolution, he has started his political career as a member of the National Salvation Front (FSN), representing its successor, the Democratic Party (PD) to the Chamber of Deputies. Additionally, Canacheu is an activist supporting the official recognition of Aromanians as an ethnic minority, being a founding member of the Aromanian Community Association (, ACAR) and the Aromanian Cultural Society (\"Societatea Culturală Aromână\"; Aromanian: \"Sutsata Culturala Armâneascâ\").\n\nBorn to an Aromanian family in Budești, Călăraşi County, Canacheu graduated from the Electro-Energetic High School in Bucharest, and worked as a technician between 1978 and 1989. Between 1993 and 2000, he was head of the Administrative Board for a Bucharest-based private enterprise, SC Neico Grup SA.\n\nHe was an active participant in the Bucharest protests that led to the fall of the Nicolae Ceauşescu Communist government (December 1989), and took part in the establishment of the FSN during February 1990, serving as a member of the FSN-based administration (CFSN, later CPUN) in Sector 1 of the capital, and later as a member of the FSN Directory Council. In the 1990 election, Canacheu won a seat in the Constituent Assembly for Bucharest. In this capacity, he notably initiated a legislative project regarding parliamentary control over intelligence agencies (namely, Serviciul Român de Informaţii, SRI) and their archives.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Canacheu was among a group of former revolutionaries who, citing concerns that granting revolutionary certificates and privileges had become an instrument of corruption, formed the non-governmental organization \"Asociaţia Revoluţionarilor fără Privilegii\" (the Association of Non-Privileged Revolutionaries); other members include Ion Caramitru, Dan Pavel, Victor Rebengiuc, and Radu Filipescu.\n\nFollowing the September 1991 Mineriad, he joined Petre Roman's FSN faction which became, in 1995, the Democratic Party, and was its Executive Director for Organizing during the 1992 legislative election. Canacheu was head of the Municipal Electoral Committee in Bucharest (1994-1996), and, in late 1996, headed the campaign in favor of Anton Vătăşescu for the office of Mayor of Bucharest (Vătăşescu had received support from \"Uniunea Social-Democrată\", USD, an alliance between the PD and the Romanian Social Democratic Party). Between 1997 and 1999, he was a member of the PD's Directory Council, and, from 1999 to 2001, head of the PD's Sector 1 branch. A member of the PD's Municipal Organization, Canacheu became a member of the party's National Coordinating Council (2000-2002) and the Executive Secretary of its National Permanent Bureau (2002).\n\nHe became a PD deputy for Bucharest following the 2000 legislative election, and won the same seat as part of the Justice and Truth alliance during the 2004 election. Serving on the Committee for Defense, Public Order and National Security, of which he was President, Canacheu was also deputy member of the Romanian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In late 2006, he proposed changes in Romanian legislation regarding access to classified information, arguing in favor of unrestricted parliamentary access to the latter (amended by the National Liberal senator Norica Nicolai, the project was eventually passed).\n\nCostică Canacheu supports the view that the 26,500 Aromanians in Romania (of whom approx. 1,300 speak Aromanian as their mother tongue) should be recognized as a separate ethnicity, and has proposed changes in the Law on Minorities. He also called on the Romanian Television to initiate special broadcasts in Aromanian at a national level. In autumn 2006, several of the issues he raised were brought to the attention of the Ministry of Culture, and a review of his proposals was due by September 2006 (in December of the same year, Canacheu announced that no resolution had been passed).\n\n"}
{"id": "573970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573970", "title": "David Gamkrelidze", "text": "David Gamkrelidze\n\nDavid Gamkrelidze or Davit Gamqrelidze () (born April 2, 1964 in Tbilisi), is a Georgian politician, leader of the New Rights Party of Georgia, Member of Parliament since 1999, member of committee for defense and security, Chairman of the Centre-Right Opposition Group in the Parliament of Georgia. He also contested the 2008 Georgian presidential election and came fourth with the 4.02% of the votes cast.\n\nDavid Gamkrelidze was born on April 2, 1964 in a family of Geologist, Academician of Georgia’s Academy of Sciences and one of the most distinguished representatives of Georgian geological school Erekle Gamkrelidze and of Ia Gobronidze. His grandfather, Academician Petre Gamkrelidze was one of the founders of Georgian geological school.\n\nDavid Gamkrelidze graduated from the Tbilisi 55th secondary school. In 1982 he became student of Tbilisi State Medical University, Faculty of Pediatrics. He was a distinguished student, holder of Tarkhnishvili Scholarship, member of the Student’s Medical Council. He was a frequent participant of various students’ international conferences and Olympiads.\n\nSince 1988 the “National movement” gained significant momentum among the majority of Georgian citizens; especially among the youth. The Georgian citizens began to demand independence and the country unraveled in massive protest demonstrations. In this hectic time, David Gamkrelidze, along with his friends, established the Christian-Democratic Association, which later was renamed into the Christian-Democratic Union.\n\nDavid Gamkrelidze took active part in the March–April 1989 protest demonstrations against the Soviet Army.\n\nRight after the tragic events of April 9, 1989 several organizations were established, the Rustaveli Society among them, of which David Gamkrelidze was a member.\n\nIn the spring of 1989, with the purpose of coordinating the National Liberation Movement, the National Forum was established. The participants of the forum were Gia Chanturia, Zviad Gamsakhurdia, Irakli Batiashvili and others. The Christian-Democratic Union was represented at the Forum by David Gamkrelidze and Irakli Kakabadze. In June of the same year, the first delegation of the National Liberation Movement traveled to Paris to celebrate the Independence Day of Georgia at the invitation from the Georgian Diaspora living there. David Gamkrelidze was a member of the delegation as well.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Communist regime in 1990 and Georgia’s eventual re-gaining of independence, David Gamkrelidze concluded he had exhausted his function in the National Liberation Movement and moved to entrepreneurial activities. Along with his friends, he established the first ever insurance company in Georgia, the Aldagi. Very soon, Aldagi became the flagman of the insurance industry in Georgia. In 1999, David Gamkrelidze, as the President of Aldagi, was named among the ten most successful businessmen of Georgia.\n\nIn 1998 he was elected member of the Tbilisi City Assembly, local governing authority of the capital of Georgia.\n\nFor the then ruling party (Citizens’ Union of Georgia), in order to win the general elections badly needed a certain number of successful people in its electoral party list. David Gamkrelidze, who did not hold the membership of this party, agreed to take part in the elections along with other businessmen .\n\nOn October 31, 1999 David Gamkrelidze became member of the Parliament of Georgia. At the first session sitting, he got elected as chairman of the Healthcare and Social Issues Committee. Gradually, David Gamkrelidze and his friends realized that the ruling party did not actually care for their professionalism and commitment to the matters of national importance. The period of disenchantment began, which reached its peak in the spring of 2000. That was right after the ruling party presented to the Parliament the budget for ratification in 1999 and demanded from the majority of the party to endorse it.\n\nDavid Gamkrelidze and Levan Gachechiladze resigned in sign of protest and called for creation of a committee that would investigate the budget deficit of 1999.\n\nOn May 17, 2000 a special commission was formed with David Gamkrelidze at the chairmanship to investigate the budget deficit of 1999. In six months, David Gamkrelidze presented to the Parliament a conclusion and said the whole truth as to what the reason for the 1999 drastic budget deficit in actuality was.\n\nOn September 8, 2000 with the purpose to overcome the critical situation prevalent in the country and in order to raise public awareness in this regard, 35 professionals established a public organization – the “New Movement”. David Gamkrelidze was one of its founders and an active member.\nOn September 17, 2000 the “New Faction” Group was formed in the Parliament. David Gamkrelidze was elected chairman of the group.\nThe “New Faction”, despite of its smallness, significantly changed the situation in the Parliament. It truly said a totally different and new word in Georgia’s politics.\n\nOn June 15, 2001 on the basis of the “New Faction”, New Movement and Georgian Neo-Conservative Party, a political party was created. The party was called the New Rights of Georgia. The founding congress elected David Gamkrelidze as its co-chairman.\n\nIn a year since its founding, the New Rights reached very high results for a party which was only a year’s old. On June 2, 2002 the New Rights won the first place in the local elections all across Georgia, and the third place on Tbilisi level. David Gamkrelidze contributed significantly to the success of the party. He personally headed the party’s election campaign. After winning the local elections, the party began to prepare for the upcoming parliamentary elections.\n\nIn September, 2002 David Gamkrelidze and his colleagues submitted to the Parliament of Georgia a decree regarding Georgia’s accession to NATO as a foreign policy priority, declaration was unanimously adopted. This was the first open statement about Georgia’s willingness to join NATO.\n\nOn June 27, 2003 at the Party 2nd Congress David Gamkrelidze was unanimously elected as chairman and leader.\n\nThe results of the parliamentary elections of November 2, 2003, in which the New Rights overcame the 7-percent threshold, were abolished. New general elections were called. There was very little time left before the March 28, 2004 elections. The revolutionary sentiments were gaining momentum. Therefore, everyone inside and outside of the country was sure that none of the opposition parties would be able to succeed. From the so-called non-revolutionary parties, only the New Rights were able to overcome the 7-percent barrier. They made a coalition with another party of centre-right orientation, the Industrials and consequently successfully overcame the 7-percent threshold. David Gamkrelidze was in charge of the Industrial’s and New Right’s election campaign on March 28, 2004 as well.\n\nIn April, 2004 David Gamkrelidze became member of the Parliament second time.\n\nCurrently, he is heading the Right Opposition Group; he is also member of the Defence and Security Committee as well as member of the Delegation to NATO Parliamentary Assembly. His opinion, as one of the most successful opposition leaders, is widely taken into account in the Western political circles.\n\nOn June 3, 2006 David Gamkrelidze was re-elected as the New Rights Party chairman at the 3rd Party Congress.\n\nOn November 24, 2007 on the 4th Extraordinary Congress of the New Rights Party David Gamkrelidze was nominated as a candidate for early Presidential elections to be held on January 5, 2008. His candidature officially supported by four political parties (New Rights Party, Industrialists, National Democrats and Christian Democrats). He advocates the establishment of a constitutional monarchy through a referendum (\"see also Monarchism in Georgia\").\n\nDavid Gamkrelidze has a wife, Marina Madichi and two children – Erekle and Nino.\n\nHe speaks Georgian, Russian and English.\n\n"}
{"id": "42109445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42109445", "title": "David Yakobashvili", "text": "David Yakobashvili\n\nDavid Mikhaylovich Yakobashvili ( , sometimes spelled Iakobaсhvili) is one of the founders of the largest Russian company – JSC Wimm-Bill-Dann – the manufacturer of dairy products, juices and beverages. In 2001 - 2010 he held the position of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of this company.\n\nDavid Yakobashvili is awarded a medal “In Memory of the 850th Anniversary of Moscow”, testimonial letter of the Russian Federation Government for active participation in the implementation of objectives of domestic economy modernization as well as a Pro Merito Medal of the Council of Europe. He was given the status of “The Men of the Year 2001” (Russian Biography Institute), “Person of the Year 2002” (Rosbuisinessconsulting) and “Entrepreneur of the Year 2003” (Ernst & Young). In 2008 he was given a commemorative award for contribution in the corporate management development and was called the best Chairman of Board of Directors (Association of Independent Directors). In 2012 he was given an award from “Kommersant” publishing house in two categories at once: “Success” and “Choice of the Audience”. In 2013 he won appreciation from the Administration of the President of the Russian Federation for active participation in preparing and holding a meeting of Heads of Governments of B20.\n\n"}
{"id": "47415745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47415745", "title": "Donald Cameron (mayor)", "text": "Donald Cameron (mayor)\n\nSir Donald Charles Cameron (12 May 1877 – 8 October 1962) was a Dunedin businessman and was Mayor of Dunedin from 1944 to 1950. He was knighted in the 1948 Birthday Honours and received the freedom of the City of Edinburgh in 1949.\n\nHe was born in Dunedin, and married Frances Raines in 1905.\n\nIn 44 years with Reid and Gray he rose from office boy to director. He was on the Dunedin City Council since 1935. He was connected with the Methodist Central Mission for 55 years, and was president of the Methodist Conference of New Zealand in 1926. He was president of the Otago Centenary Association in 1948, chairman of the Armed Forces Appeal Board ond on the Otago Education Board and Otago University Council.\n\nHe stood for parliament for the Reform Party unsuccessfully for in the and for in the . Later he stood for parliament unsuccessfully for the National Party in in the .\n\nIn the 1948 King's Birthday Honours, Cameron was appointed a Knight Bachelor.\n"}
{"id": "3243626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3243626", "title": "Drummond Company", "text": "Drummond Company\n\nDrummond Company, Inc. is a privately owned company based in Birmingham, Alabama, United States, involved in the mining and processing of coal and coal products as well as oil and real estate.\n\nThe company was founded in Jasper, Alabama in 1935 by Heman Edward Drummond, an Alabama coal miner. Drummond started mining on land he inherited from his family; he used mules to drag coal out of the mines. When Drummond died in 1956, the company remained family-owned.\n\nIn 1970, the company signed a contract to sell coal to Japanese steel companies.\n\nIn 1973, Garry N. Drummond, one of the founder's seven children, was appointed as Chairman. Another son, Elbert Allen \"Larry\" Drummond served as Vice Chairman until his death in 2012. During 1979-1980, these Drummond brothers, along with company executive Clyde Black, were indicted for bribing three Alabama legislators, by means of supplying them with prostitutes. The three-month trial was dismissed by Judge Frank McFadden.\n\nIn 2003, the company was sued by Colombian widows and orphans of three labor union leaders who were murdered by paramilitaries near Drummond mines. The lawsuit accused Drummond of \"supporting paramilitary fighters at its facilities, thereby making Drummond liable for the deaths.\" It was known as Estate of Rodriquez v. Drummond Co.. By 2009, the United States Department of Justice had not found sufficient evidence and ruled in favor of the company, concluding that it had never supported any action of illegal groups.\n\nIn February 2013, journalist Alejandro Arias reported with photographic evidence dumping of hundreds of tons of coal into the Caribbean Sea by the company a month earlier. Based on this evidence the Colombian Government temporarily suspended some operations of the company in Santa Marta where the incident occurred. Drummond was also fined US$3.6 million.\n\nAs of December 2013, the company employed a workforce of 6,600, with annual sales of US$3 billion. It was inducted into the Alabama Engineering Hall of Fame.\n\nIn 2015, the Drummond Company sued attorneys Terrence P. Collingsworth and William R. Scherer, the advocacy group International Rights Advocates (IRAdvocates), and Dutch businessman Albert van Bilderbeek, one of the owners of Llanos Oil, accusing them of violating the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act by alleging that Drummond had worked alongside Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia to murder labor union leaders within proximity of their Colombian coal mines, which Drummond denies.\n\nIn October 2018, David Roberson, previously the company's vice-president of government affairs, was sentenced to \"two-and-a-half years in prison, followed by one year of supervised release\", and fined $25,000 for his July 2018 convictions, alongside those of attorney Joel Iverson Gilbert (formerly, a partner active in Balch & Bingham's Environmental and Natural Resources section), on \"six criminal charges each relating to a scheme intended to stop expansion of a toxic cleanup site in Jefferson County by the Environmental Protection Agency\", through a bribe to former basketball player, then state legislator Oliver Robinson (who was also convicted), through use of his nonprofit organization, The Oliver Robinson Foundation. Roberson maintained that he \"trusted Joel\" [Gilbert] and \"never thought we were bribing Oliver Robinson.\"\n\nDrummond operates the Shoal Creek mine in northwestern part of Jefferson County in Alabama. Output from Shoal Creek is sold to Alabama Power under long-term supply contracts.\n\nIt operated the Pribbenow and El Descanso mines near La Loma in the Cesar Department in northern Colombia. Both mines produce bituminous coal. Production from Pribbenow, comprising almost 50% of all coal mined in Colombia, is exported to 11 countries. The company is \"Colombia’s second-biggest thermal coal producer.\"\n\nThe company owns Perry Supply, a subsidiary founded in 1913, which sells \"mining, foundry, construction, and industrial supplies.\"\n\nThe company also owns Alabama By-Products Corporation, also known as ABC Coke, located in Tarrant, Alabama. According to \"Forbes\", it is \"the largest single producer of foundry coke in the U.S..\" Starting 2015, Drummond funneled money though its law firm Balch & Bingham to a retired state legislator Oliver Robinson. In exchange for over a hundred thousand dollars, Robinson encouraged poor people in the area not to cooperate with the Environmental Protection Agency's efforts to list areas of north Birmingham as a superfund site due to pollution caused by ABC. In 2017 Robinson plead guilty to various corruption charges.\n\nThe company owns Jasper Oil, a subsidiary founded in 1967, which produces both diesel and refined gasoline.\n\nThe company manages \"four luxury planned communities in Alabama, Florida and California.\" In 1985, they developed their first community: Oakbridge in Lakeland, Florida. Over the years, they developed Liberty Park in Vestavia Hills, Alabama, as well as Rancho La Quinta and Andalusia at Coral Mountain in La Quinta, California.\n"}
{"id": "9310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9310", "title": "Enterprise resource planning", "text": "Enterprise resource planning\n\nEnterprise resource planning (ERP) is the integrated management of core business processes, often in real-time and mediated by software and technology.\n\nERP is usually referred to as a category of business-management software — typically a suite of integrated applications—that an organization can use to collect, store, manage, and interpret data from these many business activities.\n\nERP provides an integrated and continuously updated view of core business processes using common databases maintained by a database management system. ERP systems track business resources—cash, raw materials, production capacity—and the status of business commitments: orders, purchase orders, and payroll. The applications that make up the system share data across various departments (manufacturing, purchasing, sales, accounting, etc.) that provide the data. ERP facilitates information flow between all business functions and manages connections to outside stakeholders.\n\nEnterprise system software is a multibillion-dollar industry that produces components supporting a variety of business functions. IT investments have become the largest category of capital expenditure in United States-based businesses over the past decade. Though early ERP systems focused on large enterprises, smaller enterprises increasingly use ERP systems.\n\nThe ERP system integrates varied organizational systems and facilitates error-free transactions and production, thereby enhancing the organization's efficiency. However, developing an ERP system differs from traditional system development.\nERP systems run on a variety of computer hardware and network configurations, typically using a database as an information repository.\n\nThe Gartner Group first used the abbreviation ERP in the 1990s to extend upon the capabilities of material requirements planning (MRP), and the later manufacturing resource planning (MRP II), as well as computer-integrated manufacturing. Without replacing these terms, ERP came to represent a larger whole that reflected the evolution of application integration beyond manufacturing.\n\nNot all ERP packages developed from a manufacturing core; ERP vendors variously began assembling their packages with finance-and-accounting, maintenance, and human-resource components. By the mid-1990s ERP systems addressed all core enterprise functions. Governments and non–profit organizations also began to use ERP systems.\n\nERP systems experienced rapid growth in the 1990s. Because of the year 2000 problem and the introduction of the euro that disrupted legacy systems, many companies took the opportunity to replace their old systems with ERP.\n\nERP systems initially focused on automating back office functions that did not directly affect customers and the public. Front office functions, such as customer relationship management (CRM), dealt directly with customers, or e-business systems such as e-commerce, e-government, e-telecom, and e-finance—or supplier relationship management (SRM) became integrated later, when the internet simplified communicating with external parties.\n\n\"ERP II\" was coined in 2000 in an article by Gartner Publications entitled \"ERP Is Dead—Long Live ERP II\". It describes web–based software that provides real–time access to ERP systems to employees and partners (such as suppliers and customers). The ERP II role expands traditional ERP resource optimization and transaction processing. Rather than just manage buying, selling, etc.—ERP II leverages information in the resources under its management to help the enterprise collaborate with other enterprises.\nERP II is more flexible than the first generation ERP. Rather than confine ERP system capabilities within the organization, it goes beyond the corporate walls to interact with other systems. Enterprise application suite is an alternate name for such systems. ERP II systems are typically used to enable collaborative initiatives such as supply chain management (SCM), customer relationship management (CRM), and business intelligence (BI) among business partner organizations through the use of various e-business technologies.\n\nDevelopers now make more effort to integrate mobile devices with the ERP system. ERP vendors are extending ERP to these devices, along with other business applications. Technical stakes of modern ERP concern integration—hardware, applications, networking, supply chains. ERP now covers more functions and roles—including decision making, stakeholders' relationships, standardization, transparency, globalization, etc.\n\nERP systems typically include the following characteristics:\n\nAn ERP system covers the following common functional areas. In many ERP systems, these are called and grouped together as ERP modules:\n\nGovernment resource planning (GRP) is the equivalent of an ERP for the public sector and an integrated office automation system for government bodies. The software structure, modularization, core algorithms and main interfaces do not differ from other ERPs, and ERP software suppliers manage to adapt their systems to government agencies.\n\nBoth system implementations, in private and public organizations, are adopted to improve productivity and overall business performance in organizations, but comparisons (private vs. public) of implementations shows that the main factors influencing ERP implementation success in the public sector are cultural.\n\n\nMost ERP systems incorporate best practices. This means the software reflects the vendor's interpretation of the most effective way to perform each business process. Systems vary in how conveniently the customer can modify these practices. In addition, best practices reduced risk by 71% compared to other software implementations.\n\nUse of best practices eases compliance with requirements such as IFRS, Sarbanes-Oxley, or Basel II. They can also help comply with de facto industry standards, such as electronic funds transfer. This is because the procedure can be readily codified within the ERP software and replicated with confidence across multiple businesses who share that business requirement.\n\nERP systems connect to real–time data and transaction data in a variety of ways. These systems are typically configured by systems integrators, who bring unique knowledge on process, equipment, and vendor solutions.\n\nDirect integration—ERP systems have connectivity (communications to plant floor equipment) as part of their product offering. This requires that the vendors offer specific support for the plant floor equipment their customers operate. ERP vendors must be experts in their own products and connectivity to other vendor products, including those of their competitors.\n\nDatabase integration—ERP systems connect to plant floor data sources through staging tables in a database. Plant floor systems deposit the necessary information into the database. The ERP system reads the information in the table. The benefit of staging is that ERP vendors do not need to master the complexities of equipment integration. Connectivity becomes the responsibility of the systems integrator.\n\nEnterprise appliance transaction modules (EATM)—These devices communicate directly with plant floor equipment and with the ERP system via methods supported by the ERP system. EATM can employ a staging table, web services, or system–specific program interfaces (APIs). An EATM offers the benefit of being an off–the–shelf solution.\n\nCustom–integration solutions—Many system integrators offer custom solutions. These systems tend to have the highest level of initial integration cost, and can have a higher long term maintenance and reliability costs. Long term costs can be minimized through careful system testing and thorough documentation. Custom–integrated solutions typically run on workstation or server-class computers.\n\nERP's scope usually implies significant changes to staff work processes and practices. Generally, three types of services are available to help implement such changes—consulting, customization, and support. Implementation time depends on business size, number of modules, customization, the scope of process changes, and the readiness of the customer to take ownership for the project. Modular ERP systems can be implemented in stages. The typical project for a large enterprise takes about 14 months and requires around 150 consultants. Small projects can require months; multinational and other large implementations can take years. Customization can substantially increase implementation times.\n\nBesides that, information processing influences various business functions e.g. some large corporations like Wal-Mart use a just in time inventory system. This reduces inventory storage and increases delivery efficiency, and requires up-to-date data. Before 2014, Walmart used a system called Inforem developed by IBM to manage replenishment.\n\nImplementing ERP typically requires changes in existing business processes. Poor understanding of needed process changes prior to starting implementation is a main reason for project failure. The difficulties could be related to the system, business process, infrastructure, training, or lack of motivation.\n\nIt is therefore crucial that organizations thoroughly analyze business processes before they implement ERP software. Analysis can identify opportunities for process modernization. It also enables an assessment of the alignment of current processes with those provided by the ERP system. Research indicates that risk of business process mismatch is decreased by:\n\nERP implementation is considerably more difficult (and politically charged) in decentralized organizations, because they often have different processes, business rules, data semantics, authorization hierarchies, and decision centers. This may require migrating some business units before others, delaying implementation to work through the necessary changes for each unit, possibly reducing integration (e.g., linking via Master data management) or customizing the system to meet specific needs.\n\nA potential disadvantage is that adopting \"standard\" processes can lead to a loss of competitive advantage. While this has happened, losses in one area are often offset by gains in other areas, increasing overall competitive advantage.\n\nConfiguring an ERP system is largely a matter of balancing the way the organization wants the system to work with the way it was designed to work. ERP systems typically include many settings that modify system operations. For example, an organization can select the type of inventory accounting—FIFO or LIFO—to use; whether to recognize revenue by geographical unit, product line, or distribution channel; and whether to pay for shipping costs on customer returns.\n\nTwo-tier ERP software and hardware lets companies run the equivalent of two ERP systems at once: one at the corporate level and one at the division or subsidiary level. For example, a manufacturing company could use an ERP system to manage across the organization using independent global or regional distribution, production or sales centers, and service providers to support the main company’s customers. Each independent center or subsidiary may have its own business models, workflows, and business processes.\n\nGiven the realities of globalization, enterprises continuously evaluate how to optimize their regional, divisional, and product or manufacturing strategies to support strategic goals and reduce time-to-market while increasing profitability and delivering value. With two-tier ERP, the regional distribution, production, or sales centers and service providers continue operating under their own business model—separate from the main company, using their own ERP systems. Since these smaller companies' processes and workflows are not tied to main company's processes and workflows, they can respond to local business requirements in multiple locations.\n\nFactors that affect enterprises' adoption of two-tier ERP systems include:\n\nERP systems are theoretically based on industry best practices, and their makers intend that organizations deploy them \"as is\". ERP vendors do offer customers configuration options that let organizations incorporate their own business rules, but gaps in features often remain even after configuration is complete.\n\nERP customers have several options to reconcile feature gaps, each with their own pros/cons. Technical solutions include rewriting part of the delivered software, writing a homegrown module to work within the ERP system, or interfacing to an external system. These three options constitute varying degrees of system customization—with the first being the most invasive and costly to maintain. Alternatively, there are non-technical options such as changing business practices or organizational policies to better match the delivered ERP feature set. Key differences between customization and configuration include:\n\n\nCustomization advantages include that it:\n\nCustomization disadvantages include that it may:\n\nERP systems can be extended with third–party software, often via vendor-supplied interfaces. Extensions offer features such as:\n\nData migration is the process of moving, copying, and restructuring data from an existing system to the ERP system. Migration is critical to implementation success and requires significant planning. Unfortunately, since migration is one of the final activities before the production phase, it often receives insufficient attention. The following steps can structure migration planning:\n\n\nOften, data migration is incomplete because some of the data in the existing system is either incompatible or not needed in the new system. As such, the existing system may need to be kept as an archived database to refer back to once the new ERP system is in place.\n\nThe most fundamental advantage of ERP is that the integration of myriad business processes saves time and expense. Management can make decisions faster and with fewer errors. Data becomes visible across the organization. Tasks that benefit from this integration include:\n\nERP systems centralize business data, which:\n\n\n\nThe term \"postmodern ERP\" was coined by Gartner in 2013, when it first appeared in the paper series \"Predicts 2014\". According to Gartner's definition of the postmodern ERP strategy, legacy, monolithic and highly customized ERP suites, in which all parts are heavily reliant on each other, should sooner or later be replaced by a mixture of both cloud-based and on-premises applications, which are more loosely coupled and can be easily exchanged if needed.\n\nThe basic idea is that there should still be a core ERP solution that would cover most important business functions, while other functions will be covered by specialist software solutions that merely extend the core ERP. This concept is similar to the so-called best-of-breed approach to software implementation, but it shouldn't be confused with it. While in both cases, applications that make up the whole are relatively loosely connected and quite easily interchangeable, in the case of the latter there is no ERP solution whatsoever. Instead, every business function is covered by a separate software solution.\n\nThere is, however, no golden rule as to what business functions should be part of the core ERP, and what should be covered by supplementary solutions. According to Gartner, every company must define their own postmodern ERP strategy, based on company's internal and external needs, operations and processes. For example, a company may define that the core ERP solution should cover those business processes that must stay behind the firewall, and therefore, choose to leave their core ERP on-premises. At the same time, another company may decide to host the core ERP solution in the cloud and move only a few ERP modules as supplementary solutions to on-premises.\n\nThe main benefits that companies will gain from implementing postmodern ERP strategy are speed and flexibility when reacting to unexpected changes in business processes or on the organizational level. With the majority of applications having a relatively loose connection, it is fairly easy to replace or upgrade them whenever necessary. In addition to that, following the examples above, companies can select and combine cloud-based and on-premises solutions that are most suited for their ERP needs. The downside of postmodern ERP is that it will most likely lead to an increased number of software vendors that companies will have to manage, as well as pose additional integration challenges for the central IT.\n\n"}
{"id": "44072209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44072209", "title": "Giancarlo Livraghi", "text": "Giancarlo Livraghi\n\nGiancarlo Livraghi (25 November 1927 – 22 February 2014) was an Italian author and advertising executive.\n\nBorn in Milan and graduated in philosophy at the University of Milan, while studying he had started working as a reporter, an editor and a bibliographer. His first full-time job began in 1952, when he joined as a copywriter in the CPV agency (Italian headquarters of Colman, Prentis and Varley) becoming a short time later the creative director of the agency. He worked for many major Italian and international companies of the advertising industry, also holding institutional positions.\n\nAs a scholar, starting from the 1990s Livraghi studied and analyzed in several publications the values of human communication via internet. He was co-founder, with Andrea Mazzucchi, and first president of ALCEI, initially conceived as the Italian branch of EFF.\n"}
{"id": "2161346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2161346", "title": "Global Enterprise Challenge", "text": "Global Enterprise Challenge\n\nThe Global Enterprise Challenge, formerly known as the Enterprise Olympics, arose as a result of an international collaboration between Ken Baker, then Chief Executive of the Enterprise New Zealand Trust, and Gordon McVie, who was at that time with Scottish Enterprise. This challenge is a high-powered student business competition, involving Internet technology and global competitors, and in 2009 was hosted by the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow\n\nThe challenge is aimed at secondary and pre-university students from all over the world.\n\nParticipants this year came from:\n\nEngland, Wales, Germany and Norway joined Scotland in Glasgow with the other ten countries competing remotely.\n\n2002 – New Zealand\n\n2003 – New Zealand\n\n2004 – Scotland\n\n2005 – Germany\n\n2006 – Wales\n\n2007 – United States\n\n2008 – New Zealand\n\n2009 – Indonesia\n\n2010 – Australia, Earnshaw State College GEC 2010 was hosted by Indonesia in Bali.\n\n2011- Australia, Earnshaw State College\n\n2012 - Australia, Earnshaw State College\n\n2015 – Wales, Coleg Cambria\n\n"}
{"id": "30266299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30266299", "title": "Groton Iron Works", "text": "Groton Iron Works\n\nGroton Iron Works was a company formed in 1917 to build cargo ships for the United States Shipping Board during World War I. The company owned two shipyards: one in Noank, Connecticut for wooden ships; and the other in Groton, Connecticut for steel ships. The focus of this article is the Groton, Connecticut yard.\n\nIn 1916, Harry C. Rowe sold his 30-acre estate at Eastern Point to Charles W. Morse. Charles W. Morse was president of United States Steamship Company, which was the parent company of Groton Iron Works and Virginia Shipbuilding Corporation. 4,993 shares of the 5,000 total shares of Groton Iron Works stock was owned by United States Steamship Company. Qualifying shares were owned by the following: four shares by C.W. Morse and his three sons; one by Mr. Guggenheim; one by Mr. Loft; one unknown. $3,500,000 was spent to construct Groton Iron Works, which employed 3,600 men.\n\nE.A. Morse, President \n\nH.F. Morse, Vice President \n\nB.W. Morse, Secretary \n\nEmergency Fleet Corporation contract #57 S.C. for six 8,800 dead-weight ton steamers was signed 11 August 1917.\n\nEmergency Fleet Corporation contract #225 S.C. for six 9,400 dead-weight ton steamers was signed 20 April 1918. Three were eventually canceled due to the end of the war.\n\nOn 23 July 1922, the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad leased the property for use as a locomotive repair facility.\n\nOn 30 January 1926, Hickman Sea Sled announced the lease of the jointer shop building.\n\nOn 25 January 1927, Atlantic Coast Fisheries purchased the northern section of the property from Boston Iron and Metal Company, to fillet, freeze and package haddock. In 1929 they purchased the remaining property, then sold some to Shell Oil Company for the construction of a distributing center with seven tanks.\n\nIn January, 1941, a syndicate headed by Alfred Holter purchased most of the property, intending to build freighters for Britain. Purchase price was $550,000 cash.\n\nOn 5 February 1942, the US Navy purchased the property from Alfred Holter and Shell Oil Company for $222,000 using condemnation proceedings. $9.5 million was spent to construct the Victory Yard, where General Dynamics Electric Boat began building submarines on 22 July 1942. On 3 November 1943 a Federal Court Committee awarded an additional $203,000 to the former owners.\n\nOn 13 January 1945, General Dynamics Electric Boat announced that $3,000,000 will be spent to convert the Victory Yard to manufacture 105mm shells.\n\nOn 18 December 1946, Pfizer Inc purchased the property from the War Assets Administration. Purchase price was $911,999.\n"}
{"id": "51396906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51396906", "title": "Horace Finaly", "text": "Horace Finaly\n\nHorace Finaly (30 May 1871, Budapest – 19 May 1945, New York City) French banker, was director general of the Banque de Paris et des Pays-Bas (Paribas) between 1919 and 1937. It imposed its policy and philosophy of its business by the enormous power which had directed the bank.\n\nHe was born on 30 May 1871 in Budapest and studied at the Lycée Condorcet and passed a law degree in Paris University. He died in New York on 19 May 1945, but his remains are to Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris, not far from where he was one of the gentlemen of the time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38754240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38754240", "title": "Hydrothermal liquefaction", "text": "Hydrothermal liquefaction\n\nHydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) is a thermal depolymerization process used to convert wet biomass into crude-like oil -sometimes referred to as bio-oil or biocrude- under moderate temperature and high pressure. The crude-like oil (or bio-oil) has high energy density with a lower heating value of 33.8-36.9 MJ/kg and 5-20 wt% oxygen and renewable chemicals.\n\nThe reaction usually involves homogeneous and/or heterogeneous catalysts to improve the quality of products and yields. Carbon and hydrogen of an organic material, such as biomass, peat or low-ranked coals (lignite) are thermo-chemically converted into hydrophobic compounds with low viscosity and high solubility. Depending on the processing conditions, the fuel can be used as produced for heavy engines, including marine and rail or upgraded to transportation fuels, such as diesel, gasoline or jet-fuels.\n\nAs early as the 1920s, the concept of using hot water and alkali catalysts to produce oil out of biomass was proposed. This was the foundation of later HTL technologies that attracted research interest especially during the 1970s oil embargo. It was around that time that a high-pressure (hydrothermal) liquefaction process was developed at the Pittsburgh Energy Research Center (PERC) and later demonstrated (at the 100 kg/h scale) at the Albany Biomass Liquefaction Experimental Facility at Albany, Oregon, US. In 1982, Shell Oil developed the HTU™ process in the\nNetherlands. Other organizations that have previously demonstrated HTL of biomass include Hochschule für Angewandte Wissenschaften Hamburg, Germany, SCF Technologies in Copenhagen, Denmark, EPA’s Water Engineering Research Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA, and Changing World Technology Inc. (CWT), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. Today, technology companies such as Licella/Ignite Energy Resources (Australia), Altaca Energy (Turkey), Steeper Energy (Denmark, Canada), and Nabros Energy (India) continue to explore the commercialization of HTL.\n\nIn hydrothermal liquefaction processes, long carbon chain molecules in biomass are thermally cracked and oxygen is removed in the form of HO (dehydration) and CO (decarboxylation). These reactions result in the production of high H/C ratio bio-oil. Simplified descriptions of dehydration and decarboxylation reactions can be found in the literature (e.g. Asghari and Yoshida (2006) and Snåre et al. (2007))\n\nMost applications of hydrothermal liquefaction operate at temperatures between 250-550C and high pressures of 5-25 MPa as well as catalysts for 20–60 minutes, although higher or lower temperatures can be used to optimize gas or liquid yields, respectively. At these temperatures and pressures, the water present in the biomass becomes either subcritical or supercritical, depending on the conditions, and acts as a solvent, reactant, and catalyst to facilitate the reaction of biomass to bio-oil.\n\nThe exact conversion of biomass to bio-oil is dependent on several variables:\n\nTheoretically, any biomass can be converted into bio-oil using hydrothermal liquefaction regardless of water content, and various different biomasses have been tested, from forestry and agriculture residues, sewage sludges, food process wastes, to emerging non-food biomass such as algae. The composition of cellulose, hemicellulose, protein, and lignin in the feedstock influence the yield and quality of the oil from the process.\n\nTemperature plays a major role in the conversion of biomass to bio-oil. The temperature of the reaction determines the depolymerization of the biomass to bio-oil, as well as the repolymerization into char. While the ideal reaction temperature is dependent on the feedstock used, temperatures above ideal lead to an increase in char formation and eventually increased gas formation, while lower than ideal temperatures reduce depolymerization and overall product yields.\n\nSimilarly to temperature, the rate of heating plays a critical role in the production of the different phase streams, due to the prevalence of secondary reactions at non-optimum heating rates. Secondary reactions become dominant in heating rates that are too low, leading to the formation of char. While high heating rates are required to form liquid bio-oil, there is a threshold heating rate and temperature where liquid production is inhibited and gas production is favored in secondary reactions.\n\nPressure (along with temperature) determines the super- or subcritical state of solvents as well as overall reaction kinetics and the energy inputs required to yield the desirable HTL products (oil, gas, chemicals, char etc.).\n\nHydrothermal liquefaction is a fast process, resulting in low residence times for depolymerization to occur. Typical residence times are measured in minutes (15 to 60 minutes); however, the residence time is highly dependent on the reaction conditions, including feedstock, solvent ratio and temperature. As such, optimization of the residence time is necessary to ensure a complete depolymerizaiton without allowing further reactions to occur.\n\nWhile water acts as a catalyst in the reaction, other catalysts can be added to the reaction vessel to optimize the conversion. Previously used catalysts include water-soluble inorganic compounds and salts, including KOH and NaCO, as well as transition metal catalysts using Ni, Pd, Pt, and Ru supported on either carbon, silica or alumina. The addition of these catalysts can lead to an oil yield increase of 20% or greater, due to the catalysts converting the protein, cellulose, and hemicellulose into oil. This ability for catalysts to convert biomaterials other than fats and oils to bio-oil allows for a wider range of feedstock to be used.\n\nBiofuels that are produced through hydrothermal liquefaction are carbon neutral, meaning that there are no net carbon emissions produced when burning the biofuel. The plant materials used to produce bio-oils use photosynthesis to grow, and as such consume carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. The burning of the biofuels produced releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, but is nearly completely offset by the carbon dioxide consumed from growing the plants, resulting in a release of only 15-18 g of CO/kWh or energy produced. This is substantially lower than the releases rate of fossil fuel technologies, which can range from releases of 955 g/kWh (coal), 813 g/kWh (oil), and 446 g/kWh (natural gas). Recently, Steeper Energy announced that the Carbon Intensity (CI) of its Hydrofaction™ oil is 15 COeq/MJ according to GHGenius model (version 4.03a), while diesel fuel is 93.55 COeq/MJ.\n\nHydrothermal liquefaction is a clean process that doesn't produce harmful compounds, such as ammonia, NO, or SO. Instead the heteroatoms, including nitrogen, sulfur, and chlorine, are converted into harmless byproducts such as N and inorganic acids that can be neutralized with bases.\n\nThe HTL process differs from pyrolysis as it can process wet biomass and produce a bio-oil that contains approximately twice the energy density of pyrolysis oil. Pyrolysis is a related process to HTL, but biomass must be processed and dried in order to increase the yield. The presence of water in pyrolysis drastically increases the heat of vaporization of the organic material, increasing the energy required to decompose the biomass. Typical pyrolysis processes require a water content of less than 40% to suitably convert the biomass to bio-oil. This requires considerable pretreatment of wet biomass such as tropical grasses, which contain a water content as high as 80-85%, and even further treatment for aquatic species, which can contain higher than 90% water content.\n\nThe HTL oil can contain up to 80% of the feedstock carbon content (single pass). HTL oil has good potential to yield bio-oil with \"drop-in\" properties that can be directly distributed in existing petroleum infrastructure.\n\n"}
{"id": "38337237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38337237", "title": "Ian Randle", "text": "Ian Randle\n\nIan Randle (born 7 July 1949) is a Jamaican publisher. He is the founder of an eponymous independent publishing company whose main focus is on English-language readers.\n\nRandle was born in Hanover on Jamaica in 1949. He read for a Special Honours degree in history at the Mona campus of the University of the West Indies, Jamaica, and later for an MSc in international politics at the University of Southampton UK on a Commonwealth scholarship. After his academic study he worked many years for British publishers until he set up his own firm, Ian Randle Publishers (IRP). This start made him the first English-language publisher of scholarly books in the Caribbean. Later, his firm became a model for particularly the African book scene.\n\nAt first Randle focused on history and the social sciences, which allowed young academics to publish their findings locally. As a result, the region became less dependent on writers from the United Kingdom, the colonizer of Jamaica until 1962. In later years Randle expanded the range of books to include biography, culture, cookery, and sports, while producing texts for undergraduate-level students and the upper levels of the Caribbean secondary school system. His list contains the most comprehensive offerings on the Regional Integration Movement and on the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). His published list contains over 350 printed titles and some electronic editions.\n\nThe direction of the firm is now in the hands of Randle's daughter Christine, while he himself has continued in fields such as marketing, public relations and consultancy.\n\nIn 2000 Randle helped establish the Caribbean Publishers Network (CAPNET) and became its first president, serving for two two-year terms, during which he established links with the international publishing community and with publishers in Africa through the sister organization APNET. During this period Randle contributed regularly to the University of Denver Publishing Institute delivering the annual lecture on international publishing and presenting papers in a variety of international publishing and education fora.\n\nHis pioneering work was recognized by the government of Jamaica when he was conferred with the Order of Distinction in 2002. In 2012 Randle was honoured with a Prince Claus Award from the Netherlands for his contribution to Caribbean intellectual property and for championing independent local publishing and self-representation in other post-colonial contexts. Earlier that year, the Caribbean magazine \"Tallawah\" included him on the list of most influential Jamaicans. In 2013 he received an Honorary Doctor of Laws (LLD) degree from the University of the West Indies, St Augustine campus in Trinidad, for his contribution to Trinidad and Tobago and the Caribbean. In the same year, he received the Trailblazers Award from the Book Industry Association of Jamaica. \n\n"}
{"id": "20422186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20422186", "title": "Informed consumer", "text": "Informed consumer\n\nThe concept of the informed consumer is a fundamental one in the law of the European Union. Since the general Resolution of 1975, one of the primary objectives of the European Community, and then the European Union, has been the provision of information to consumers. The rationale is that market actors who are informed have a greater capacity to understand the importance of their market actions and choices, and are enabled in making better choices.\n\nAccording to the European Union, \"Information is a deciding factor for consumers when making their choices and affects both consumer interests and their confidence in the products and services circulating within the market.\"\n\nThe consumers expect to get fair treatment in the market place and avoid unscrupulous or sharp business dealings.\nThey envisage a fair market environment that facilitates and supports several consumer rights:\n\n\nWith the advent of electronic media in marketing, and the mass information storage capacity of computers, consumer privacy has become a great concern. Hence, consumers want to ensure privacy of information. The consumers want to be able to cast off the invasive marketing methods, and threat of entry into the private system of consumers.\nConsumer information is the most important element for consumer protection and policy decisions. It is the solution to issues ranging from online transactional threats, behavioural targeting, loss of privacy and other problems.\nA consumer must treat every purchase as an important Investment. Making an uninformed investment in the stock market can result in huge financial losses to consumer, the similar rule applies to daily purchases. Being an informed consumer is advantageous to the economy, market and consumers .\nAn informed consumer is capable of making sensible decisions, gains an insight about a product prior to its purchase. This insight equips the consumer with the data to arrive at an evidence based conclusion.\n\n\n\n\n\nIt is the responsibility of the consumer to get all the information about the potential purchase and associated background before making a decision to buy it. \"Getting armed with information about the consequences of your purchase doesn't just make an informed consumer, it makes a Responsible consumer.\"\n\nTransparent information about the terms and conditions associated with the product or service can facilitate a plenty of regulatory requirements to redress the consumer related grievances. Primarily, complete information will level the information asymmetries, improve consumer's decision- making capability vis-à-vis the seller's complex knowledge about the product they are selling.\nConsumer information also harmonises and solve consumer problems, create awareness and guide their behaviour. Another important objective that is achieved by informing the consumer is impact on Competitive policy. This will enable the traders and service providers to give greater information to consumers about their product, educate them about the product quality and other specifications.\nIn addition to the compliance to the legal obligations, the business firms also have their planned, tactical and important business- related reasons behind informing the consumer. The business organisation ensure consumer's expectation management by equipping them with certain knowledge about the commodity.\nMany times, business face disincentive by providing information to the consumers, as it might harm the marketability and attractiveness of their product. This indicate the power gained on being an Informed consumer.\nThe economic analysis indicates that information asymmetry to consumer is a major ground for market failure, causing the consumer to make irrational decisions. Thus, unbiased information can solve the market problems by equipping the customers with appropriate information and thereby ensuring healthy market practices.\n\nConsumers derive their information from multiple sources. The following are the sources from where a consumer gathers the desired knowledge about the product:\nConsumer derives information from a variety sources, each source illustrating its own interest, skills and resources . However, it is essential for the consumers to recognise their personal interests and make a judicious decision.\n\nThe influx of electronic media and abundance of available information has triggered a complete transformation of the market orientation. There has been a transition in the \"traditional customer engagement\", whereby the model of teaching the customer about the product or service has changed to knowledge- ridden customers who know exactly where they want to spend their money. The digital invasion has initiated an exploration drive in the consumers, turning the consumers into 'Informed Consumers'. This trend can be substantiated by the research led by the firm Forrester that suggests \"buyers are often between 70 and 90 percent of the way through the sales process before they ever engage a vendor\". This evolution in the market- orientation is a challenge for the existing and the emerging businesses. Following are the steps to take advantage of changes in, market:\n\nConsumers are becoming web-savvy, mobile enabled data sifters, who attain complete knowledge about the product prior to even stepping in the store.\n\nTo deal with highly informed consumers, the marketer must do the following:\n\nWith the increase in the variety of sources for consumer education, it is important for the marketer to enter the sales process at an early stage. The marketer must move ahead of the curve and make sure to bring some value to the customer’s purchase beyond just fulfilling his/her need.\n\nEU consumer policy is designed to\nIn an efficient, integrated EU economy underpinned by EU-wide rules, you must be able to trust that your rights as a consumer will be upheld in the event of any problems when purchasing goods and services in other EU countries.\nAt an annual cost of just 5 cents per person, the EU's consumer protection programme for 2014–2020, is designed to enforce consumer laws throughout the single market, giving you a high level of legal protection.\n\nIn fact, whereas informed publics in developed countries are more trusting of small than big businesses (76% vs. 53%), emerging market respondents placed more trust in big businesses (79% vs. 70%). Overall, small businesses are slightly more trusted than big businesses (70% vs. 62%).\nLooking at company types, the study finds that trust in media companies rose from 52% of informed publics globally in 2012 to 57% this year. Within the US, trust in media companies crossed into the majority, increasing from 45% to 51%.\n"}
{"id": "30466422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30466422", "title": "Instituto Mexicano de Ejecutivos de Finanzas", "text": "Instituto Mexicano de Ejecutivos de Finanzas\n\nThe Instituto Mexicano de Ejecutivos de Finanzas (IMEF) () was founded in 1961 as a private nonprofit organization for finance executives in Mexico. This institute has representation groups in its major cities, a total of 20 groups work with a national structure whom are responsible for representing the Financial Management sector in the public and private sector of Mexico who in turn, are part of the 17 national technical committees of the institute. \n\nConsidered as IMEF subdivisions, there are chapters created by the institute in an effort to link the younger generations of future financial executives in the country; these are IMEF Universitario and IMEF Nueva Generación.\n\nThe Mexican Institute of Financial Executives (IMEF) is a founding member of the International Association of Financial Executives Institutes (IAFEI) and takes credit for some serious and renowned variety of print media with both Mexican and international authors. Since 1984, the IMEF has awarded several participants in its research investigation contest and most recently since 2003 in conjunction with Deloitte the Premio Internacional IMEF-Deloitte\n\nOn September 21, 1961, the Mexican Institute of Financial Executives (IMEF) was created as an organization dedicated to the technical development of its associates in the financial area, based on the professional excellence and human quality. The affiliated members of the IMEF have been, throughout the years, the financial management leaders of Mexico's major enterprises and bovernment institutions in both public and private sectors, and a distinguished group of academics and researchers highly committed to the economic and financial challenges of Mexico and Latin America.\nThe foundation of the institute is established by the influence, leadership and significance of its partners since 1961 who have contributed to strengthen the Institute and its position in Mexico. In the years 1971, 1981, 1991, 2001 and 2012 IMEF was host of the annual IAFEI World Congress.\n\nTo promote the integral development of financial professionals, exercising leadership in all the activities performed.\n\n\nThe Mexican Institute of Financial Executives created, in a joint venture with the government agency the INEGI, the Indicador IMEF del Entorno Empresarial (IIEEM) thus making the first indicator of private sector that has the technical regulation and support of a public institution in México.\n\nThe Indicador IMEF del Entorno Empresarial is a factory index that measures the business climate around the expected economic environment or trajectory direction of economic activity in the very short term, this index is divided in two: the manufacturing and non-manufacturing subdivisions. The IIEEM emulates the methodology of that in the Institute for Supply Management (ISM) of United States.\n\nThe data that this index compiles is provided by the enterprises where the IMEF associates are currently present, gathered along with business organizations of outstanding relevance in the area such as Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana (Coparmex), American Chamber of Commerce, la Asociación Nacional de la Industria del Plástico (ANIPAC), la Cámara Nacional de la Industria de la Transformación (CANACINTRA) y la Confederación de Cámaras Industriales (CONCAMIN)\n\nIn 1984 the IMEF research foundation awarded the first investigation contest. In 2003 the IMEF joined Deloitte to spread the financial research applicable in Mexico and Latin America through this international open contest that has for objective to promote and encourage research on topics of interest to the macro-financial environment, as well as business and public finance.\n\nThe examining jury consists in:\n\n"}
{"id": "26371808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26371808", "title": "Iqbal Z. Ahmed", "text": "Iqbal Z. Ahmed\n\nIqbal Zafaruddin Ahmed or Iqbal Z. Ahmed (born 3 February 1946) is a businessman and philanthropist of Pakistan.\n\nBorn in Patna, India, Ahmed is the son of Zohra (died 1979) and Z. Z. Ahmed (1910–1989), a former deputy inspector general of Pakistan Police. He was schooled at Sadiq Public School, Bahawalpur, and Aitchison College, Lahore. He has a bachelor's degree in economics from Government College, Lahore, and a master's degree in economics from Punjab University, Lahore.\n\nAssociated Group (AG) was cofounded by Ahmed and his father in 1965. Today, AG is among Pakistan's largest producers, transporters and marketers of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) in the private sector. Its companies include Jamshoro Joint Venture Limited, Pakistan GasPort Consortium Limited, Lub Gas, Mehran LPG, AG Publications, and Associated Estate Developers (AEDL). AG has its headquarters at Lahore and offices in Islamabad and Karachi. AG's philanthropic efforts are directed through the Zohra and Z. Z. Ahmed Foundation. AG chairman Ahmed is also the Publisher and chairman of the board of \"Newsweek Pakistan\".\n\nSelf-made businessman Ahmed, who started in business at the age of 16, has been featured in \"Newsweek International\" and \"Forbes\", and profiled on CNBC Pakistan.\n\nThe state of Oklahoma declared 21 April 2009, as \"Iqbal Z. Ahmed Day\" to commemorate, according to the proclamation issued by Governor Brad Henry, \"Mr. Ahmed's efforts to bring stability to the region and improve relations between Pakistan and the United States includ[ing] his support for President Obama's plan to add economic support to previously provided military support, shifting the priority for America's investment in Pakistan's stability; and ... Mr. Ahmed's efforts to champion peace and stability in Pakistan and the region; improve relations between Pakistan and the United States; provide power to underserved areas of his country; and forge a mutually beneficial partnership between Pakistan and Oklahoma businesses [a]s a positive example for everyone\".\n\nJJVL, Pakistan's single largest producer of LPG which represents post-9/11 foreign direct investment, has been recognised by its peers in the global energy world becoming a finalist six times, four years in a row, at the Platts Global Energy Awards held annually in New York.\n\n\"Newsweek Pakistan\" and Ahmed hosted an exclusive event for Dr Abdullah Gul, President of the Republic of Turkey, at Lahore on 2 April 2010.\n\nThe Lahore Chamber of Commerce and Industry, on 14 September 2012, awarded Ahmed the President of Pakistan trophy for his contribution to Pakistan's economy.\n\nAhmed is the chairperson of Lahore Literary Festival Society, president of Government College University's (GCU) Endowment Trust Fund, president of King Edward Medical University's (KEMU) Mobilization Fund, and a trustee of National College of Arts' (NCA) Endowment Board. He has also served on the board of the Punjab Red Crescent Society, and is a member of the American Business Forum (ABF). Ahmed is also the elected chairman of the LPG Association of Pakistan (LPGAP). He has previously served as the president of the India-Pakistan World Punjabi Organization.\n\nIn 2010, Jamshoro Joint Venture Limited, an LPG firm run by Iqbal Ahmed together with his son Fasih Ahmed, was fined heavily to the tune of 278 million rupees for violating legal rules regarding fair play.\n\n"}
{"id": "18926835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18926835", "title": "Isaac Larian", "text": "Isaac Larian\n\nIsaac Larian (, born March 28, 1954) is an Iranian-born American billionaire businessman, and the chief executive officer (CEO) of MGA Entertainment, the world's largest privately-owned toy company.\n\nBorn to a Jewish family in Iran, Larian has three sisters and one brother. Larian arrived to the United States alone in 1971 at the age of 17. After graduating from California State University, Los Angeles in civil engineering, he started an import-export business with his brother Fred in 1979 after his plans to return to Iran were ended by the 1979 Iranian Revolution. They then re-positioned the business into consumer electronics. In 1987, they became a distributor for Nintendo and in 1993, they became a licensee for the \"Power Rangers.\" In 1997, toys became their focus and they had their first internal success with the \"Singing Bouncy Baby.\" In 1998, he changed his company’s name to MGA Entertainment. In 2000, his brother sold his 45% stake in the company to Larian for $9 million and in 2001, MGA developed the \"Bratz\" doll. Two of the dolls bear the names of his children, son Cameron and daughter Jasmin (although her doll uses the Persian spelling Yasmin). In 2005, \"Bratz\" sales totaled $800 million well ahead of their main rival, \"Barbie\" with $445 million in sales. In 2004, Mattel sued MGA alleging that the designer of the Bratz doll had developed the concept while working for Mattel and that MGA had paid Mattel employees to work on MGA projects. MGA counter sued alleging that Mattel spied on its salesmen by masquerading as toy buyers, repositioned Bratz displays in retail stores to less favorable arrangements, and that Mattel paid retailers to favor Barbie over Bratz. On August 5, 2011 Mattel was also ordered to pay MGA $310 million for attorney fees, stealing trade secrets, and false claims. Due to a technical procedural issue having nothing to do with the merits of the claims, the Ninth circuit vacated without prejudice the $170 million portion of the judgment against Mattel for this misconduct. On January 13, 2014, MGA filed a complaint for these claims in State court in California seeking in excess of $1 billion and this lawsuit is currently pending. In November 2006, MGA purchased the manufacturer of infant and toddler toys, \"Little Tikes.\" In 2010, MGA released the highly successful \"Lalaloopsy\" doll.\n\nOn March 21, 2018, Larian launched a GoFundMe campaign to acquire Toys \"R\" Us after news broke out of them declaring bankruptcy. Larian posted $200 million of his own money to get the campaign running, and a goal of $1 billion was set. According to the campaign description, all the money raised would be used in the formulation of a bid to acquire some of the company's assets throughout the bankruptcy process. The campaign has a deadline of May 28, 2018, Memorial Day. Any donations from supporters of the campaign would only be donations and would not result in donors receiving equity in any potential acquisition of the company. Larian ultimately ditched the GoFundMe campaign after generating less than $60,000 by April 6th. On April 13th, Larian placed a bid of $890 million USD. Of the $890 million, $675 million is to buy 274 Toys R Us stores in the US, and $215 million to acquire 82 Canadian stores.\n\nHe was named Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award for the consumer products category in 2004. He was also named the overall national Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year in 2007. His motto, \"Fortune favors the bold\" is displayed throughout MGA's building.\n\nHe is married to Angela Neman who is also of Iranian Jewish descent. They have three children: Jason, Jasmin and Cameron.\n\n"}
{"id": "35828456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35828456", "title": "Jack Welch Management Institute", "text": "Jack Welch Management Institute\n\nThe Jack Welch Management Institute at Strayer University is a for-profit online educational institution founded in 2009 and based in the United States, offering an executive Master of Business Administration degree and executive certificates for working adults. It was founded by Jack Welch, former CEO of General Electric. The company is headquartered outside of Washington D.C. at Strayer University's corporate office - 2303 Dulles Station Blvd, Herndon, VA 20171.\n\nThe Jack Welch Management Institute was developed in 2009 by former GE CEO Jack Welch in partnership with Chancellor University, to create a business school aimed at providing leadership training to managers and executives. The institute launched in June 2009, and classes began in January 2010.\n\nIn April 2011 Welch approached Strayer University to discuss moving the institute to the university. The deal to acquire the institute closed in December 2011.\n\nIn June 2012, the Jack Welch Management Institute announced the appointment of Daniel Szpiro as Dean. Szpiro had previously been the Associate Dean for Executive Education at the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.\n\nThe institute offers an accredited Master of Business Administration and executive certificates covering various business-related topics through online classes. The online MBA is a two-year program and the certificates are six-week programs. In March 2013, the Institute launched a series of online, self-guided, self-paced management training programs under the Welch Way brand.\n\nWelch developed the curriculum, drawing from his management experience as CEO of GE and his experience teaching managers and executives at GE's Leadership Development Center. In addition to helping shape the program's curriculum, he holds the title of distinguished professor at the institute. He regularly addresses students via video stream, and holds a video conference with them at the end of each term.\n\nWelch expects the relatively low tuition and flexible schedule for the institute's MBA program to make the program attractive to those currently employed but wishing to earn an MBA. He has stated that he plans to grow the institute into the number one online business school in the world by 2016.\n\nJWMI's MBA program was recently named the number one most influential education brand on Linkedin. and one of the top business schools to watch in 2016.The program has also been named one of the Top 25 Online MBA Programs two years in a row (2017 & 2018) by the Princeton Review for its excellence in five areas of selection criteria: academics, selectivity, faculty, technical platforms, and career outcomes.\n\n"}
{"id": "9810465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9810465", "title": "Jim Gatheral", "text": "Jim Gatheral\n\nJim Gatheral is a researcher in the field of mathematical finance, who has contributed to the study of volatility as applied to the pricing and risk management of derivatives. A recurrent subject in his books and papers is the volatility smile, and he published in 2006 a book \"The Volatility Surface\" based on a course he taught for six years at New York University, along with Nassim Taleb. More recently his work has moved in the direction of market microstructure, especially as applied to algorithmic trading. He is the author of \"The Volatility Surface: A Practitioner's Guide.\" (2006, New Jersey: Wiley. )\n\nIn March 2010, Jim Gatheral left his position at Merrill Lynch to assume a tenured full professor position at the Financial Engineering Masters Program at Baruch College, where he is teaching volatility surface modeling and market microstructure. Prior to this, he worked at Bank of America and Bankers Trust before heading the Equity Quantitative Analytics group at Merrill Lynch in 1996, where he was a managing director for 17 years. In 1998 he became a fellow of the Masters Program of Mathematics in Finance at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences of New York University, where he was an adjunct professor for 12 years.\n\nIn April 2013, Jim Gatheral was named Presidential Professor at Baruch College.\n\nHe received his PhD in theoretical physics from Cambridge University (1983), and a B.Sc. in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy from the University of Glasgow.\n\n"}
{"id": "44782093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44782093", "title": "Kvadraturen (Kristiansand)", "text": "Kvadraturen (Kristiansand)\n\nKvadraturen is the city center of Kristiansand in Vest-Agder county, Norway, with a population of 6,750 (2015). The borough is made up of the centre together with the harbour to the south and the more rural district of \"Eg\" to the north. Kvadraturen is the administrative centre of the municipality of Kristiansand as well as the administrative centre of Vest-Agder county, but is far smaller in area than the other boroughs in the municipality, such as the borough of Grim to the north and west, and the borough of Lund to the east.\n\nKvadraturen is the location of the Kristiansand Cathedral and the nearby commercial, pedestrian street is Markens gate. The city harbour is located along the Kristiansandsfjorden and the island of Odderøya. The borough has three malls and three high schools. The closest public junior high is \"Grim Skole\" and the closest elementary is Tordenskjoldsgate Skole and is the only remanding elementary in Kvadraturen. The Sørlandet Hospital Kristiansand is also located in the borough, in the district of Eg.\n\nThe main city centre was established as a city on 5 July 1641 by King Christian IV. The city became a self-governing municipality under the formannskapsdistrikt law on 1 January 1838. On 1 July 1921, a neighboring part of the municipality of Oddernes (population: 2,164) was transferred from Oddernes to the city of Kristiansand. During the 1960s, there were many municipal mergers across Norway due to the work of the Schei Committee. On 1 January 1965, the city of Kristiansand (population: 27,100) was merged with the neighboring municipalities of Randesund (population: 1,672), Oddernes (population: 18,668), and Tveit (population: 2,802) to form a new, larger municipality of Kristiansand.\n\nMarkens gate is the main pedestrian street in Kristiansand. It is one of Norway's most walked street and is over long. The street has many different stores. The walking zone stretches over seven blocks. During the 1600-1700s, the street was called Dronningens gate, and today its also nicknamed Stripen (The Strip).\n\nThe most central part of the city is lower Markens where it meets Tollbodgata. Some stores here are open 24/7 and it is here most crimes of downtown Kristiansand take place. Chain restaurants like 7-Eleven, McDonald's, and Deli de Luca are also located there.\n\nThere are three malls at Kvadraturen: Sandens is the largest and newest one, Slottet Shopping is located at the north end of Markens gate in the north. Lille Markens is the smallest mall.\n\nKristiansand Bus Terminal, Kristiansand Station, and Kristiansand Harbor are all located at Vestre Strandgate next to each other. Local buses goes from Henrik Wergelandsgate and Tollbodgata.\n\nKristiansand Station has daily trains to Oslo and Stavanger. Kristiansand Harbor has many daily ferry routes to Hirtshals, Denmark.\n\nKristiansand Airport, Kjevik is located from the city center, and it has routes to the biggest cities in Norway, with less frequent routes to other Northern European cities.\n\nThere are two public and one private high schools and one elementary school in the borough of Kvadraturen. The elementary school has students from over 27 different nationalities. The closest junior high schools are in the nearby boroughs of Grim and Lund.\n\nThe 10 largest politics parties in Kvadraturen (2015):\n\nThe borough of Kvadraturen is the site of many tourist attractions. Christiansholm Fortress was built in 1672. The Kilden Theatre, the largest culture house and theatre in Southern Norway, is located on the island of Odderøya. It was finished in 2012 and has a capacity of over 2,000.\n\nFiskebrygga (The Fish Wharf), a former fish landing in Kvadraturen with Odderøya, has been redeveloped as a restaurant, shopping, and tourist destination.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31749484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31749484", "title": "Lutz Aengevelt", "text": "Lutz Aengevelt\n\nDr. Lutz W. Aengevelt (born June 4, 1943) is a German businessman who is the co-managing partner of Aengevelt Immobilien headquartered in Düsseldorf, Germany. Aengevelt is listed among the largest private real estate firms in Germany. Lutz Aengevelt along with his brother Wulff make up the third generation of the family business.\n\nDr. Lutz W. Aengevelt, married and father of two children, was born on 4 June 1943 in Offenbach. In 1966, after he has finished his PhD in Economic Sciences he entered the real estate company founded by his grandfather Leo Aengevelt in Düsseldorf in the year 1910.\n\nSince 1969 he has been managing partner of Aengevelt Immobilien GmbH & Co. kg. He is responsible for the departments of \"Commercial letting\", \"Investment\", \"Placement of undeveloped land\", \"Project development / preparation and management\", \"Land recycling\", \"Real estate research\" and \"International real estate\". His theme, in addition to independence from foreign control, his social commitment and the training of qualified young talents: \"A property is always part of a value chain, we fully activate their potential.\" \n\nTogether with his brother Wulff, Dr. Lutz Aengevelt drives since the late 80's consistently the national and international expansion of the company's progress. He is the initiator and co-founder of the German broker association \"DIP - German Real Estate Partners\"5, founded in 1988, and the network \"IPP - International Property Partners\", which offers customers real estate services throughout Europe.\n\nAdditionally, Dr. Lutz Aengevelt became involved in diverse fields of real estate research and education. This counts as his assistance in research projects of the \"Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft\", the \"German Institute for Urbanisitik\" DIFU7, various ministries of the Federal Republic of Germany, the federal states North Rhine-Westphalia, Rhineland Palatinate and Berlin on such topics as \"Construction Law\", \"Industrial development\", \"Pollution Management\" and \"Real Estate Marketing\".\n\nThere are also lectures and specialist presentations at diverse universities e.g. at the University of Applied Sciences and Arts HAWK8, and specialized conferences like the real estate conference CIMMIT 20119, Frankfurt, or the Family Office Forum 201210, Wiesbaden.\n\nBeyond that, Dr. Lutz Aengevelt performs numerous volunteer activities, such as the advisory board of Deutsche Bank AG in Düsseldorf, of the Stadtsparkasse Düsseldorf and of the Munich Trade Fair \"EXPO REAL\".\n\nHe also was a longtime member of the General Assembly of the Düsseldorf Chamber of Commerce. In Düsseldorf, he was also involved as the first chairman of the \"support association monument Rochuskirche e.V.\", which aims the redevelopment and embodiment of the Rochus Church was and which was dissolved after 12 years of successful fulfillment of this task in 2002.\n\nSimilarly varied as his professional and community involvement is also the private sector: The family is center of life. In addition, Dr. Lutz Aengevelt is an enthusiastic sportsman (including water sports, football, hockey, skiing), and Theaterfan and - how could it be otherwise - even in his limited free time interested in urban planning.\n\nAccording to the Real Estate Finance Intelligence Report Europe (REFIRE) in 2010 Aengevelt was ranked first place ahead of Engel & Völkers and BW Baden-Württembergische Bank and were listed for having the highest level of client support and consultation. In 2009 at the International Commercial Property Exposition (EXPO REAL) Immo News quoted Dr. Lutz Aengevelt stated the headline; \"More decision makers, more front line visitors.\" in reference to the improved market and real estate environment.\n\nIn 2009 Lutz Aengevelt was interviewed by Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung and was posed the following questions;\n\n\" Is the competition among brokers during this difficult time actually just down to the price?\" \n\n\"Of course, competition is hard boned, but that does not take place on the commission rates, but on the evidence of achievement. One should also not overlook the fact that part of the competition is no longer there. Some have withdrawn from the sample transaction business, it is now known as the Asset Management and others are insolvent.\" - then going on to reiterate the fact that Aengevelt Immobilien has zero debt which is a pivotal aspect of their success and solidified infrastructure.\n"}
{"id": "38709847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38709847", "title": "Marc de Garidel", "text": "Marc de Garidel\n\nMarc de Garidel is a French businessman. He serves as the non-executive chairman of the pharmaceutical company Ipsen and advises Mayroy, the Ipsen controlling holding company.\n\nMarc de Garidel graduated from the École Spéciale des Travaux Publics, an engineering grandes écoles in Paris. He received business degrees from the Thunderbird School of Global Management in Glendale, Arizona and the Harvard Business School.\n\nIn 1983, he started his career at Eli Lilly and Company, where he worked in France, the United States and Germany.\n\nIn 1995, he joined Amgen as Vice President, of Finance and Treasury for Europe. In 1998, he became Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Amgen. In 2000, he became Vice President and General Manager for France, in charge of Amgen France. In 2006, he became Vice President for Southwestern Europe, including France, Spain, Belgium and Portugal. From 2007 to 2010, he served as Vice President for Southern Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Latin America at Amgen.\n\nHe has served as Chairman and CEO of Ipsen since November 2010. He sits on the Board of Directors of TcLand Expression. He is also Chairman of the Board of Promethera Biosciences and European Biopharmaceutical Entreprises.\n\nHe is President and spokesperson for G5 santé, a lobbying group for French pharmaceutical companies, including BioMérieux, Guerbet, Ipsen, the Laboratoire français du Fractionnement et des Biotechnologies, Laboratoires Pierre Fabre, Sanofi, Stallergenes and Laboratoires Théa.\n\nThe Board of Directors of Ipsen has appointed David Meek as Chief Executive Officer, effective July 18, 2016. On this date, Marc de Garidel will assume the role of non-executive chairman and will continue to serve the Board of Directors through his deep industry expertise. In addition, Marc de Garidel will advise Mayroy, the Ipsen controlling holding company.\n\nHe is a Knight in the National Order of the Legion of Honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "2824358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2824358", "title": "Mark Chung (musician)", "text": "Mark Chung (musician)\n\nMark Chung (born June 3, 1957, in Leeds, England) is a German musician and music publisher, probably best known for his work as the bass guitarist of the German band Einstürzende Neubauten.\n\nFrom 1980 Chung was a member of the West German post-punk band Abwärts from Hamburg he joined Einstürzende Neubauten in 1981. He assumed responsibility for business management of the band until leaving in 1994 to concentrate on his work in the music industry.\n\nHe formed Freibank Music Publishing in 1986, initially for controlling and administering the copyrights of Einstürzende Neubauten, but Freibank also offered this service to other musicians and steadily grew.\nIn 1996, Chung moved to London, where he became senior vice-president of Sony Music International. After 9 years with Sony Music, he moved back to Germany and now directs the Freibank office in Berlin. In 2006, Chung was elected chairman of the German association of independent music companies (\"Verband unabhängiger Musikunternehmen - VUT\") and he also sits on the board of the public-private partnership Initiative Musik.\n\nHe is married and has two sons and a daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "34217562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34217562", "title": "Master of Science in Human Resource Development", "text": "Master of Science in Human Resource Development\n\nA Master of Science in Human Resource Development (abbreviated \"HRD\" or \"MSHRD\") is a type of \npostgraduate academic master's degree awarded by universities in many countries. This degree is typically studied for in Human Resource Development and Human Resource Management. The key concepts include strategic human resource management, creatively studying and solving organisational problems and creating strategic alignment between human resource and organisational goals.\n\nThe Master of Science in Human Resource Development is a one to three years Master Degree, depending on the program, some may even start with two-year preparation classes and covers various areas of human resource development.\n\nTopics of study may include:\n\n\nInstitutions in the United States that have a Masters of Science in Human Resource Development Degree Program include:\n\n"}
{"id": "918653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=918653", "title": "Michael O'Leary (businessman)", "text": "Michael O'Leary (businessman)\n\nMichael Kevin O'Leary (born 20 March 1961) is an Irish businessman and the Chief Executive Officer of Ryanair. He is one of Ireland's wealthiest businessmen.\n\nMichael O'Leary was born 20 March 1961, the second in a family of six, in Kanturk in County Cork. He was educated at Clongowes Wood College, County Kildare. In 1979, he began a four-year Bachelor in Economic and Social Studies programme at Trinity College, Dublin. He graduated from Trinity in 1983 and then worked as a trainee with Stokes Kennedy Crowley (later known as KPMG), studying the Irish tax system. He left after two years in 1985, setting up profitable newsagents in Walkinstown and Terenure, Dublin.\n\nWhile at Stokes Kennedy Crowley, O'Leary had met Tony Ryan, head of Guinness Peat Aviation, a leasing company (GPA). Ryan was one of KPMG's clients and O'Leary advised Ryan on his personal income tax affairs. In 1987, Ryan hired O'Leary as his personal financial and tax advisor, where Ryan's main interest was in GPA. Ryanair was established around this time and originally followed a traditional business model, but quickly began to lose money. Subsequently O'Leary was sent to the USA to study the novel Southwest Airlines business model. \n\nUnder O'Leary's management, Ryanair further developed the low-cost model originated by Southwest Airlines. O'Leary may have described the inauguration of the ancillary revenue movement during a 2001 interview in \"The Sunday Times\". \"The other airlines are asking how they can put up fares. We are asking how we could get rid of them.\" \n\nThe business model envisioned by O'Leary uses receipts from on board shopping, internet gaming, car hire and hotel bookings to replace the ticket revenue from selling airline seats. Savings are also made by negotiating discounts with airports for reduced landing fees. In many cases, regional airports have made no charges so as to secure flights that bring passengers and wealth into their area.\n\nThe deregulation of Ireland's major airports and a transformation of traditional full-service airlines are among his demands.\n\nIn August 2014, O'Leary unveiled plans to develop a \"Ryanair Israel\" to operate extensive flights to and from Israel and a large network of European cities. The plans include the establishment of a large hub in Israel.\n\nO'Leary has a reputation for loose talk in the airline industry and among its regulators. Many press articles have often described him as arrogant, and prone to making comments which he later contradicts. He has been extravagantly outspoken in his public statements, sometimes resorting to personal attacks and foul language. His abrasive management style, ruthless pursuit of cost-cutting and his explicitly hostile attitude towards corporate competitors, airport authorities, governments, unions and customers has become a hallmark. He was reported to have been aggressive and hostile in dealings with a woman who was awarded free flights for life in 1988. \n\nIn 2007, he was forced to retract a claim that Ryanair had cut emissions of carbon dioxide by half over the previous five years; the claim should have been that emissions 'per passenger' had been cut by half. O'Leary has been reported to have impersonated a journalist in an attempt to find information passed on to a newspaper following a safety incident on a Ryanair flight. On occasion he has apologised for personal attacks under threat of legal action.\nHe has been criticized by a judge for lying, who said he was lucky not to be found guilty of contempt of court. In April 2017, he called concerns about climate change \"complete nonsense\".\n\nIn a press conference discussing Ryanair's planned intercontinental service RyanAtlantic, O'Leary jokingly described the airline's planned business class travel experience as featuring \"whores and rum\". In 2002 he said that his company is against any long-haul transatlantic services, stating that:The low-cost model only really works for short-haul flights [...] If we started flying farther afield, we'd have to do something stupid like introducing what I call a 'rich class' to make it pay.\n\nHowever, more than a decade later, in 2013 he said, while at the Paris Air Show, that he wanted to sell cheap flights from the U.S. to Europe for as low as 10 euros ($13) or $10, if conditions were right. He said that he needed a fleet of at least 30 twin-aisle aircraft and access to ports (e.g. major U.S. and European cities, in the airline industry there are so called slots or sometimes gates, often regulated by law, and without obtaining them it is impossible to have regular service to airports). Despite his claims in 2002, there were so called budget airliners in the past – for example Laker Airways flights from London to New York in the late 1970s or long-hauls at budget-fares on other continents like AirAsiaX in Malaysia and the Australian Jetstar Group.\n\nReacting to the decision to close European airspace in April 2010 over worries about the ash plume from an erupting Icelandic volcano he said \"there was no ash cloud. It was mythical. It's become evident the airspace closure was completely unnecessary.\" One study concluded that serious structural damage to aircraft could have occurred if passenger planes had continued to fly. Scientists and the industry as a whole remain unconvinced, however.\n\nIn May 2014 O'Leary was highly critical of a 24-hour strike by Aer Lingus cabin crew, staged on 30 May 2014. Aer Lingus, whose biggest shareholder at the time was O'Leary's company Ryanair, had to cancel 200 flights and disrupt travel plans for 200,000 people. O'Leary accused Aer Lingus of \"mismanagement\" of its employee relations, called for the sacking of a board member, and said the striking employees should be punished by having their discount travel incentives withdrawn for a year.\n\nAccording to the Bilderberg Group, O'Leary was to attend the Bilderberg Group in 2015.\nO'Leary was also seen attending the 2017 Bilderberg meeting in Washington D.C. \nIn 2004 he purchased a taxi plate for his Mercedes-Benz S-Class, to enable it to be classified as a taxi so that he could legally make use of Dublin's bus lanes to speed up his car journeys around the city. A press report suggested that since he had stopped driving his own taxi, he has employed a driver with full PSV licence. In 2005 the Irish transport minister expressed concern at this abuse by O'Leary and others.\n\nO'Leary lives in Gigginstown House near Delvin in County Westmeath. He married Anita Farrell in September 2003, and they have four children.\n\nHe breeds Aberdeen Angus cattle and horses at his Gigginstown House Stud in County Westmeath.\nIn 2006, his horses War of Attrition and in 2016 Don Cossack have won the Cheltenham Gold Cup and the 2016 Grand National with Rule The World. He also won in the 2018 Grand National with Tiger Roll.\n\nO'Leary has also been a Manchester City supporter since an early age. In 2003, he was offered the opportunity to buy a stake in the club but believed the potential benefits did not outweigh the risk and preferred to visit England to watch a few matches each season. He notably wore a Manchester City shirt when unveiling Ryanair's new destinations to and from Manchester Airport in 2011.\n\nIn February 2015 he revealed in an interview in \"The Sun\" that he was offered and turned down, for family reasons, the starring role in \"The Apprentice\" reality game show before it was offered to and accepted by Alan Sugar.\n\n"}
{"id": "43842723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43842723", "title": "Mixpanel", "text": "Mixpanel\n\nMixpanel is a business analytics service company. It tracks user interactions with web and mobile applications and provides tools for targeted communication with them.\n\nIts tool-set contains in-app A/B tests and user survey forms. Data collected is used to build custom reports and measure user engagement and retention. Mixpanel works with web applications, in particular SaaS, but also supports mobile apps.\n\nMixpanel was founded by Suhail Doshi and Tim Trefren in 2009 and is based in San Francisco, California. It is backed by Y Combinator, and its list of investors includes Andreessen Horowitz, Max Levchin and Keith Rabois.\n\nIn April 2018, founder and CEO Suhail Doshi announced he would step down and become chairman of the board. He was replaced as CEO by Amir Movafaghi.\n\n"}
{"id": "58730706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58730706", "title": "Mogi Bayat", "text": "Mogi Bayat\n\nMogi Bayat (Teheran, June 24, 1974), official name Arnaud Bayat, is an Iranian-French businessman. He was Managing Director of the football club Sporting Charleroi from 2003 till 2010. He is the cousin of Abbas Bayat and the brother of Mehdi Bayat.\n\nThe Iran-born Mogi Bayat moved to the United States when he was 6 years old, where he was getting treatment. One year later, he and his family moved to France.\n\nBayat became a businessman and became the director of the fruit juice brand Sunnyland France. He stopped with this in 2003 when he was appointed as managing director of football club Sporting Charleroi. \n\nSince December 2010 Bayat became active as a player broker. He had influence on the transfers of Anthony Limbombe, Kaveh Rezaei, Obbi Oulare, Lukasz Teodorczyk, Massimo Bruno, Adrien Trebel, Samuel Kalu, Bubacarr Sanneh, Thomas Foket and other players.\n\nOn 10 October 2018 Bayat was arrested. He was suspected of money laundering and matchfixing.\n\n"}
{"id": "197725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=197725", "title": "Nils Ericson", "text": "Nils Ericson\n\n\"Friherre\" Nils Ericson (31 January 1802 – 8 September 1870) was a Swedish mechanical engineer (as was his younger brother John Ericsson, who emigrated to England and then the USA). He became a prominent Swedish canal and railway builder.\n\nBorn Nils Ericsson, he was raised to the untitled nobility by king Oscar I of Sweden in 1854, and with this he reverted to a spelling of his surname with only one \"s\". In 1859 he was made a Friherre (equivalent to English Baron), the 403rd such elevation to Sweden's titled nobility.\n\nJohn and Nils were born in Långbanshyttan, Värmland, Sweden and received no formal education, but were taught the rudiments of mechanics from an early age by their father, Olof Ericsson. Olof worked as the superintendent of a mine in Värmland until he lost money in speculations and had to move his family to Forsvik, Västergötland, in 1810. There Olaf became a director of blastings during the excavation of Sweden's Göta Canal (built 1810-1832). He secured permission for his sons to draw in the office of the draughtsmen of the canal company, where they also learned to draw maps, and he persuaded Lieutenant Brandenburg of the Navy Mechanical Corps to teach them the art of shading and 'finishing off' mechanical drawings before they were in their teens.\n\nTheir extraordinary skills were noted by Baltzar von Platen, the architect of the Göta Canal, and they were soon dubbed cadets of mechanics of the Swedish Navy and engaged as trainees at the canal enterprise. When two engineers sent to England by Count Platen to obtain information about canal construction returned in 1815 and began to instruct a number of cadets of the Swedish Corps of Mechanical Engineers, the Ericsson brothers were among them; Nils being then twelve years old and John eleven.\n\nIn 1823 Nils Ericson joined the Engineering corps of the Swedish Army as a second lieutenant, but in 1830 he transferred to the Navy Mechanical Corps (where he eventually advanced to the rank of colonel in 1850). In 1833 he married a daughter of Count von Schwerin in Östergötland.\n\nBetween 1830 and 1850 Nils Ericson planned and directed the construction of the canals at Stallbacka, Säffle, Karlstad and Albrektsund. He also led the construction of the Saimaa Canal in Finland (constructed 1845-52), the reconstruction of the Trollhätte Canal in Trollhättan Municipality and the floodgate at Stockholm. In 1845, he was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n\nAfter 1850 he was primarily occupied with the design and construction of the Swedish state-owned railway system. At the same time he led the planning of the Dalsland Canal while construction there was being led by his son Werner.\n\nSweden started building railways later than many other European countries, having hesitated under heavy debate for several years because of the costs and other issues. Following the Riksdag's decision in 1854, Erikson was chosen to lead the project of building the main lines (stambanorna). There was also a decision that, for military reasons, the railways should avoid the coasts as much as possible.\n\nHis proposal was that the line between Gothenburg and Stockholm (Western Main Line, \"Västra stambanan\") should run south of Lake Mälaren to avoid competition with shipping. He also proposed that the line between Malmö and Stockholm (Southern Main Line, \"Södra stambanan\") should go north via Nässjö to meet up with Western Main Line at Falköping until the Western's eastward construction reached Katrineholm, where a better junction could be built with a southern line heading directly to Nässjö. This line was called Eastern Main Line (\"Östra stambanan\") but has in modern times been defined to be part of the Southern Main Line. Ericson's proposal also included the railway between Stockholm and Ånge (Northern Main Line, \"Norra stambanan\") and Main Line Through Upper Norrland (\"Stambanan genom övre Norrland\") which runs between Bräcke and Boden. A railway between Oslo and Laxå (Northwestern Main Line, \"Nordvästra stambanan\") was also planned, to connect with Western Main Line.\n\nThe first parts of the Western and Southern lines were opened in 1856. Ericson resigned in 1862 when all of the Western line opened, and in 1864 the Southern line was opened in its entirety. Northwestern line was opened in 1871, Eastern line in 1874, Northern line in 1881 and the line through Upper Norrland in 1894. When Ericson resigned in 1862 his authority was divided between two agencies (the Building Bureau and the Traffic Bureau) until the formation of Kungliga Järnvägsstyrelsen (the Royal Railway Committee) in 1888.\n\nEricson died in Stockholm in 1870, aged 68, and lies buried in Stockholm's Northern Cemetery (Norra begravningsplatsen).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2176727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2176727", "title": "Pearl Starr", "text": "Pearl Starr\n\nRosie Lee Reed (September 1868 – July 6, 1925), better known as Pearl Starr, was an American bordello owner and businesswoman in Arkansas, the first child of Belle Starr, the reputed \"Bandit Queen\" of the American Old West, and Jim Reed, Belle's first husband.\n\nPearl Starr was born in Rich Hill, Missouri. As a small child, she moved often before her outlaw father died in a gunfight when she was six. Her mother then married a Cherokee named Sam Starr, and settled beside the Canadian River in the Indian Territory at a place called Younger's Bend. Starr was twenty-one when her mother, Belle Starr, was murdered.\n\nBelle Starr claimed that Pearl was the daughter of the outlaw Cole Younger. While no official record exists, pictures of a young Pearl Starr show an uncanny resemblance to Cole Younger. Her parentage may always be in doubt.\n\nMost historical writers accept that Starr gave birth to an illegitimate daughter named Flossie in April 1887, when she was 18. Belle Starr sent her daughter away to relatives to have her baby.\n\nIn 1888 Starr's brother, Edwin, was found in possession of stolen property and was shot by his accomplice. What became of Starr's daughter is unknown, but in the summer of 1888 Starr returned alone to her mother's house at Younger's Bend to care for her brother.\n\nEdwin's case went to trial in July 1889. He was found guilty and sent to prison. About this time Starr married Will Harrison, but the couple were divorced in 1891. Capitalizing on the dime novel fame of Belle, Pearl Reed changed her name to Pearl Starr at this time. She became a prostitute in Van Buren, Arkansas, ostensibly to make money for the purpose of getting her brother out of prison. She eventually put together a defense team that managed to secure a presidential pardon for Edwin in 1893. \n\nStarr moved to Fort Smith, Arkansas and established her own bordello. Located on \"the Row,\" Fort Smith's waterfront street of gambling halls, saloons and bordellos, the house was identified with a bright red star surrounded by lighted pearls. The parlor featured a talented piano player, good whiskey and supposedly the \"most beautiful girls west of the Mississippi.\" Business prospered and Pearl purchased additional brothels, besides investing in saloons and other property.\n\nStarr had another illegitimate daughter in 1894 and named her Ruth. Starr married Arthur Erbach in 1897 and had a son with him in 1898. Her new husband and son died of malaria within a year's time. Both are buried in the Oak Cemetery in Fort Smith. By 1902, she was living with Dell Andrews and though not married to him had another daughter, Jennette, in November.\n\nThe only time Starr was implicated in a crime was in 1911. After a burglary at a general merchandise store in Fort Smith, police found several stolen items hidden at Starr's Winslow home. She was found guilty of robbery and sentenced to a year in the Arkansas State Penitentiary. Posting $2000 bail, Starr's attorneys appealed the case to the Arkansas Supreme Court, which overturned the verdict.\n\nIn 1916 the city of Fort Smith began enacting ordinances making prostitution illegal. For some time, Starr's activities were overlooked, but she was eventually arrested. The charges were dropped on the understanding that Starr would leave the community. In 1921, at age 53, she left for Douglas, Arizona. She died there on July 6, 1925 and was buried in Calvary Cemetery.\n\nStarr's daughter Flossie was credited with writing a two-part article for the \"Dallas Morning News\" Sunday editions on April 30 and May 7, 1933. According to these articles, Starr fully believed that her brother Edwin, always resentful of Belle's attention to Starr, was their mother's killer, but was never able to prove it.\n\n"}
{"id": "27677147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27677147", "title": "Peter Martin Anker (politician)", "text": "Peter Martin Anker (politician)\n\nPeter Martin Anker (June 20, 1801 – February 24, 1863) was a Norwegian landholder and politician.\n\nAnker was born at Halden in Østfold, Norway. He was a son of wholesaler Niels Anker (1764–1812). He was also a third cousin of Karen Anker, wife of Johan Caspar Herman Wedel-Jarlsberg. Together with Thrine Gløersen (1814–1902) he had the children Nils Anker, Herman Anker, Christian August Anker and Dikka Møller. Grandchildren include Katti Anker Møller, Ella Anker and Johan Anker and great-greandchildren include Øyvind Anker, Synnøve Anker Aurdal, Peter Martin Anker and Tove Mohr.\n\nHe served as first deputy to the Parliament of Norway during the term 1839–1841, representing the constituency Smaalenenes Amt (now Østfold). \n\nAnker was a major landowner and held the manor house Rød herregård in Halden. \nAnker was married to Petronelle Didrikke Cathrine Tank (1806-1833) daughter of Carsten Tank. Following her death, he married Cathrine Olava Nicoline Gløersen (1814-1902).\n"}
{"id": "29826692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29826692", "title": "Richard Goldman", "text": "Richard Goldman\n\nRichard N. Goldman (April 16, 1920 – November 29, 2010) was an American philanthropist who co-founded the Goldman Environmental Prize in 1990 with his wife, Rhoda Goldman. The \"Jewish Telegraphic Agency\" has called Goldman \"one of the most influential Jewish philanthropists in the United States.\" He founded the insurance company Goldman Insurance and Risk Management, and with his wife he established the Richard and Rhoda Goldman Fund in 1951.\n\nRichard and Rhoda Goldman established the Goldman Environmental Prize in San Francisco, California, in 1990. Goldman's foundation, which is sometimes nicknamed the \"Green Nobel,\" awarded six prizes annually worth $150,000 USD to environmental activists representing six regions of the world. Approximately $13.2 million has been awarded to activists from more than 70 countries since the Goldmans established the award, as of 2010. The 1991 Goldman Environment Prize winner Wangari Maathai from Kenya and founder of the Green Belt Movement, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2004.\n\nIn addition to his work with the Goldman Environmental Prize, Goldman supported beautification projects in San Francisco, and co-founded the Richard and Rhoda Goldman Fund. Through his foundation, which is worth more than one billion dollars, Goldman funded projects throughout the San Francisco Bay Area, including the Jewish Community Center of San Francisco and the Rhoda Goldman Plaza. Among his California projects were investments in solar power, and protection of redwood forests and sealife. In 2004, he was awarded the Chairman's Medal in the 11th Annual Heinz Award.\nThe Richard and Rhoda Goldman School of Public Policy at UC Berkeley is named for the Goldmans.\n\nRichard Goldman was the son of lawyer Richard Samuel Goldman and his wife Alice Wertheim Goldman. He died at his home in San Francisco on November 29, 2010, at the age of 90. He was survived by his daughter, Susan Gelman, and two sons, John and Doug. He was predeceased by his wife, philanthropist Rhoda Haas Goldman, who died in 1996 and their son, Richard, who died in 1989. A memorial service was held at Congregation Emanu-El in San Francisco.\n\n"}
{"id": "14267715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14267715", "title": "Richard Hurlburt", "text": "Richard Hurlburt\n\nRichard Melbourne Hurlburt (born April 25, 1950) is a Canadian politician. He represented the electoral district of Yarmouth in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly from 1999 to 2010.\n\nIn June 1999, he barely escaped with his life when his light plane crashed into a lake in Yarmouth County. He said he would have drowned if it had not been for a passenger who dragged him from the wreckage.\n\nHurlburt was a Yarmouth County municipal councillor for 11 years and was warden of Yarmouth County for 5 years.\n\nHe was a member of the Progressive Conservatives. Until the cabinet of Premier Darrell Dexter was sworn in on June 19, 2009, Hurlburt served as Minister of Service Nova Scotia and Municipal Relations.\n\nHurlburt resigned from the legislature on February 9, 2010, following revelations that he had spent his constituency allowance on a generator and a 40\" television, which together cost over $11,000. He sought sanctuary in Florida citing \"severe depression\" where he was visited by his son and his lawyer, Martin Pink.\n\nOn February 14, 2011, it was announced that Hurlburt was among four people facing criminal charges in connection with the RCMP investigation into 2010s MLA expense scandal. Hurlburt was charged with fraud exceeding $5,000, breach of trust by a public officer, and 3 counts of uttering a forged document.\n\nOn February 23, 2012, Hurlburt's lawyer said his client would plead guilty to fraud and breach of trust. In exchange, three charges of uttering forged documents were dropped. On April 12, 2012, Hurlburt pleaded guilty to fraud and breach of trust. On July 27, 2012, Hurlburt was sentenced to 12 months of house arrest, followed by 12 months of probation.\n"}
{"id": "55115918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55115918", "title": "Rosemary Mbabazi", "text": "Rosemary Mbabazi\n\nRosmary Mbabazi, is a businesswoman and politician in Rwanda, who has served as the Cabinet Minister for Youth in the Rwandan cabinet, since 31 August 2017.\n\nMbabazi holds a bachelors degree in Education, obtained from Makerere University, in Kampala, Uganda. She also holds a Master of Business Administration, from an institution in the United Kingdom.\n\nFrom 2009 until 2011 she served as the Head of the investment promotion department in the Rwanda Development Board. In 2011, Rosemary Mbabazi was appointed a caretaker of Umubano Hotel and the chairperson of Soprotel, a joint venture company between governments of Rwanda and Libya. In February 2012, she was appointed the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Youth and ICT, serving n that capacity until February 2017, when she was transferred to the Rwanda Ministry of Trade, Industry and East African Community Affairs (MINEACOM), as the permanent secretary.\n\nIn the cabinet reshuffle of 31 August 2017, Mbabazi was appointed the cabinet minister for the newly created Ministry of Youth, the former Ministry of Youth and ICT, having been split into two dockets.\n\nRosemary Mbabazi has previously served as a member of the board of directors of Rwanda Revenue Authority.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17033894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17033894", "title": "SCOJ 2007 No.30", "text": "SCOJ 2007 No.30\n\nThe Bull-dog Sauce Case (株主総会決議禁止等仮処分命令申立て却下決定に対する抗告棄却決定に対する許可抗告事件) is a Supreme Court of Japan case that resulted in a landmark decision regarding hostile takeover defense plans (such as the \"poison pill\"). The Court held that such plans do not necessarily violate the principle of shareholder equality under Japanese statutes, even if they result in discriminatory treatment some shareholders; however, such decisions must be made by shareholders themselves, acting in the company's best interest; they cannot be made by management to protect itself. The Bull-dog Sauce case arose from the first use of a poison pill by a Japanese company, and resulted in the Supreme Court's first ruling on the subject of takeover defenses.\n\nThe Bull-Dog Sauce Co., Ltd. is a Japanese company engaged primarily in the manufacture and sale of food seasonings and sauces; it also owns and leases apartments and buildings.\n\nSteel Partners LLC is an American hedge fund with offices in New York and Tokyo. It has invested in several Japanese companies that manufacture food and beverage products, including Bull-Dog Sauce, House Foods, Sapporo, and Nissin Foods; the fund frequently becomes the largest shareholder of a target company and then attempts a takeover or is vocally critical of the company's management. As of August 2007, Steel Partners held stakes in about 30 Japanese companies.\n\nOn March 30, 2007, Sapporo Holdings Ltd. shareholders voted two-thirds in favor of poison pill takeover defense measures in response to a takeover threat from Steel Partners.\n\nThe Tokyo District Court and Tokyo High Court rulings both cited the Tokyo High Court's 2005 Nippon Broadcasting Case ruling. In that case, the High Court ruled that a board of directors was generally \"not\" allowed to issue discriminatory stock warrants to prevent a shareholder from effecting a hostile takeover. However, The High Court noted an important exception: a board of directors \"was\" allowed to discriminate against a shareholder if that shareholder possessed a \"abusive motive\" (濫用目的). (This language was echoed in the High Court's ruling in the Bull-Dog Sauce Case, in which the High Court found Steel Partners to be an \"abusive acquirer\" (濫用的買収者); see below.) The High Court laid out four examples of clearly abusive motives: (1) greenmail; (2) \"scorched earth\" tactics (e.g. pillaging intellectual property); (3) aiming to use the target company's assets to pay off the bidding company's debts; (4) aiming to sell off assets to produce a large one-time dividend.\n\n\"Unocal v. Mesa Petroleum\", 493 A.2d 946 (Del. 1985) was a 1985 Delaware Supreme Court case that established standards for determining the acceptability of takeover defense tactics such as the poison pill. At the core of the \"Unocal\" decision is the so-called proportionality test: a takeover defense is legitimate if the takeover bid presents a threat to the company, and the defense is proportionate to the threat. The Tokyo High Court's ruling in the Nippon Broadcasting Case (see above) has been called a \"Unocal rule with Japanese characteristics.\" Indeed, in the Nippon Broadcasting Case, both sides referenced \"Unocal\" in their briefs to the trial court. The influence of \"Unocal\" was similarly seen in all three courts' rulings in the Bull-Dog Sauce Case \n\n\nThe following were among the Supreme Court's findings:\n\nThe Supreme Court's ruling was viewed as a clear expression of preference for the District Court's ruling that the identity of the decisionmaker determines the legitimacy of a takeover defense: shareholders are generally legitimate, whereas managers are generally not. See points (2) and (5) in above section \"Findings\". The District Court in turn had relied on the earlier Nippon Broadcasting Case to support these rulings. See above section \"Legal Background.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court did not adopt the Tokyo High Court's ruling that a discriminatory stock warrant may be used because a hostile bidder is an \"abusive acquirer.\" In reaching this ruling, the High Court had relied on the four examples of \"abusive motives\" given in the Nippon Broadcasting Case. See above section \"Legal Background.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court decision was widely seen as a validation of the legality of the poison pill takeover defense scheme under Japanese law.\n\nAlthough the Supreme Court did not validate the Tokyo High Court's finding that Steel Partners was an \"abusive acquirer,\" the High Court's derogatory label received significant attention in the press and the business community.\n\nIn November 2007, Bull-Dog Sauce estimated a consolidated net loss of 1.7 billion yen for the full year to March, largely as a result of the fight against Steel Partners. Bull-Dog's market capitalization shrank by 45%, from 32.2 billion yen in June 2007.\n\nOn March 28, 2008, Sapporo shareholders voted to renew the company's poison pill takeover defense plan.\n\nOn April 18, 2008, Steel Partners sold its remaining stake in Bull-Dog Sauce.\n\n"}
{"id": "9104198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9104198", "title": "Samuel Klein (businessman)", "text": "Samuel Klein (businessman)\n\nSamuel Klein (15 November 192320 November 2014) was a Polish-Brazilian business magnate and philanthropist who founded the Casas Bahia chain of department stores in Brazil, building them into the top retailer in the country. This along with his tendency to use massive warehouses for his goods, including the largest single warehouse in South America, led him to be known in the 1990s as the \"Sam Walton of Brazil\".\n\nThrough Casas Bahia, Klein's family became one of the wealthiest families in Brazil. In 2013, \"Forbes\" ranked him 78th richest person in Brazil with a personal net worth of $835 million, while his son, Michael, was ranked 87th with $723 million.\n\nKlein was born in Zaklików, the third of nine children. At 19, Klein worked as a joiner at the time of the Nazi German invasion of Poland in World War II, when he was taken to the Maidanek concentration camp along with his father. His mother and five younger siblings were sent to the extermination camp of Treblinka. He was later transported to Auschwitz in 1944. He escaped from the soldiers on 22 July 1944; in his own words, \"I didn't know where I was going, but I was certain to get far from the group.\" He spent the night in the fields, where some Christian Poles, also fugitives, helped him flee. He managed to return to his old house, which was ruined, and worked on a small farm in the area in exchange for food.\n\nAfter the war, he met his sister Sezia (Esther) and brother Solomon (who lives today in New York City). The Klein brothers then went to Germany, and were able to find their father alive. Klein lived in Munich, West Germany, until 1951, where he met Chana, his future wife. \n\nKlein's father went to Brazil, together with his sister Esther. He himself wanted to emigrate to the United States, but the immigration quota was full. So he joined his father and sister, making his way to Brazil via Bolivia, and settled with his family in São Caetano do Sul in greater São Paulo.\n\nIn 1952, he began working as a peddler, selling sheets, tablecloths, and towels door to door using a buggy. After five years, in 1957, he had accumulated sufficient capital to open his first shop in downtown São Caetano do Sul, which he called \"Casa Bahia\". The name was an homage to his patrons, the majority of whom were migrant workers from the northeast state of Bahia. Today, there are more than 500 of these stores with over 23 million customers, making Casas Bahia the largest warehouse distributor in Latin America. Casas Bahia is a recipient of a number of awards in recognition of its retail excellence.\n\nThe rapid growth of the organization, and Klein's role in building it into a regional economic force were the subject of one of the case studies in C. K. Prahalad's \"Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid\".\n\nKlein guarded the company's finances, keeping control of all expenses within his immediate family, although in 1997 he opened the company's books to the public to secure promissory notes for the year. He later passed control of Casas Bahia to his son Michael, who was its CEO as of 2009, and retired in Brazil. In 2009, Samuel Klein sold Casas Bahia to Grupo Pão de Açúcar. Via Varejo was soon formed through the mergers of Casas Bahia with Ponto Frio and Extra Eletro, both owned by Grupo Pão de Açúcar. The Klein family owned a 47% stake in Via Varejo, which is worth $2 billion today.\n\nSince 2010, Michael Klein has served as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Via Varejo, while Michael's son, Raphael Oscar Klein, has served as a member of the board of directors.\n\nIn May 2013, it was announced that the Klein family was planning to sell 16% of their stake in Via Varejo. In September 2013, Klein's 81.1 million shares of Via Varejo (25.1% stake) have been transferred to his heirs. 53.7 million common shares of the family's stake have begun trading on December 16, 2013. Via Varejo raised R$ 2.845 billion through a public offering of shares. Three quarters of the amount raised went to the Klein family, while the rest went to GPA. Ownership of the company has changed to GPA with 43.3%, the Klein family with 27.3%, and minority shareholders with 29.3%.\n\nIn July 2014, Grupo CB, the Klein family's holding company chaired by Michael Klein, purchased a real estate fund from BR Properties for R$606.65 million. The fund includes 26 C&A stores, a Brooksfield store, a Sendas store, a call centre, and offices on Paulista Avenue in downtown São Paulo, totaling 118,000 square meters of commercial space. Grupo CB currently holds a real estate portfolio of 420 properties worth R$4.6 billion in total, including stores, industrial warehouses, administrative complexes, offices and distribution centers, totaling over 2 million square meters of commercial space.\n\nIn a compilation of the 60 most powerful people of Brazil, iG ranked Klein 19th. He died on 20 November 2014, aged 91, of respiratory failure at the Albert Einstein Hospital.\n\nSamuel Klein was also a philanthropist. The systematic murder of 6 million Jews in Europe by Germans, also part of his personal history and experience, weighed heavily on his mind, and led him to be at the forefront of the establishment and strengthening of many Jewish organizations in São Paulo where he lived. He was the largest annual donor to Chabad/Lubavitch's boys' school and Lubavitch Yeshiva (estimated at ~$500,000 per year) in the Bom Retiro neighborhood.\n\nIn 2007 he purchased the large property for the two schools, which had been previously paying rent. He is also a major donor to the Renaissance School (Colégio Renascença) in Bom Retiro. In recent years he gave in excess of $20 million to a wider range of those in need both in São Paulo and abroad. This included assisting young people in São Paulo with grants to set up small businesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "8510553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8510553", "title": "Serving suggestion", "text": "Serving suggestion\n\nServing suggestion is a disclaimer used on food packaging. The phrase is used as legal fine print with a picture of the product. The picture attempts to portray the manufacturer's food in the most favorable or appetizing way possible, sometimes including other foods that the package does not contain. For example, the labeling on a box of cereal may feature a picture of a cereal bowl filled with that cereal, milk and a fruit garnish, or a jar of mustard may picture a hot dog in a bun with mustard on it. The serving suggestion may portray the serving size of the food used, but just as often a much larger serving is shown as part of the marketing of the item. As a disclaimer a serving suggestion also serves to remove any legal obligation on the part of the manufacturer to provide the other items pictured with their product.\nIn Ireland this is an illegal practice.\n\nWhen used with a cooking recipe, it is a recommendation from the author as a way to serve the dish.\n"}
{"id": "3158801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3158801", "title": "Silicon Gulf", "text": "Silicon Gulf\n\nSilicon Gulf is a nickname for Davao City and extends to the Davao Region, at Southern Mindanao, Philippines. The nickname refers to the growing number of information technology and IT enabled services (ITES) companies sprouting in the area. The name was adapted from Silicon Valley, referring to the high tech cluster in the San Francisco Bay Area in northern California.\n\nDavao Region is one of the regions of the Philippines, on the southeastern portion of Mindanao. Davao Region consists of four provinces — Compostela Valley, Davao, Davao del Sur, and Davao Oriental. The region encloses the Davao Gulf and its regional center is Davao City.\n\nSilicon Gulf is part of the Philippine Cyber Corridor.\n\nThe Silicon Gulf Initiative was officially announced on October 6, 2006, by Reuters Digital Vision Program fellow Jason Banico, who coined the nickname, during the ICT Davao, Inc. launch at the Royal Mandaya Hotel in Davao City. Aimed at addressing the region's Brain drain problem, the initiative emphasized radical collaboration between government, academia and industry in harnessing technical talent and information-oriented manpower as the key driving force in transforming the city from an agricultural/industrial economy to a knowledge-based one.\n\nThe primary objective of the Silicon Gulf Initiative is to build Davao City's information and communications technology (ICT) capacity through developing talent in the areas of \"technopreneurship\", IT project management, and core technical skills.\n\n\nThe ICT park zone being developed by Damosa Land Incorporated is composed of 22,983 square meters (about 300,000 sq ft) of land along J.P. Laurel Avenue which would accommodate two information technology buildings; data building; commercial and a utility building that with an unlimited power supply.\n\nThe primary stage of development involves the establishment of the ICT building covering some 1,326 square meters (about 15,500 sq ft) of land along J.P. Laurel Avenue. Ricardo Floirendo, Damosa Land Inc. is a local counterpart of the Ayalas in Davao.\n\nBased on their plans, the IT building would be installed with high-speed fiber-optic telecommunication backbone and high-speed international gateway facility or wide-area network.\n\nLandco Corporate Centre is along JP Laurel Avenue, Bajada, Davao City. Among its amenities and facilities is a global integrated communication system (GICS) with structured cabling system for multi-media applications.\n\nIt installed the first building management system (BMS) in Mindanao which monitors and controls the elevators, the fuel and water pumps, and the main entry. The building features sophisticated fire safety and security systems, three high-speed elevators, a grand lobby and hallways.\n\nGiven its potentials to become a “center of excellence” in information communications and technology (ICT), Davao City is declared as an IT HUB area in the Philippines by the National Telecommunications Office per memorandum # 05-05-200.\n\nA study made in 2002 by the Asian Institute of Management through a project called the Philippine Cities Competitiveness Program revealed that the city is the most competitive city in the Philippines (Metro Cities Category) with the lowest cost of doing business.\n\nMoreover, using a scorecard developed by the Commission on Information and Communications Technology (CICT), Davao City ranks high as an attractive ICT investment location in the country.\n\nIn the area of workforce potential, the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) XI reported that as of January 2005 out of 76 colleges and universities in the region, Davao City has 42, three of which belonging to the Top 20 in the country: Ateneo de Davao University, University of the Immaculate Conception and University of Mindanao.\n\nAbout 14 colleges and universities in the region were granted the PAASCU, PACUCOA, and AACUP accreditations, assuring that quality graduates are produced each year.\n\nMoreover, a total of 15,731 graduates were recorded for the school year 2004-2005 with the following top courses: Education (2,715 graduates), Commerce (2,707 graduates) and Nursing (2,241 graduates).\n\nIn the area of telecommunications infrastructure, Davao City has available high-speed digital subscribers lines (DSLs) that can support 24x7 operations. The presence of major telecommunications companies, i.e., Philippine Long Distance Telephone Company, BayanTel, Globe Telecom, Digitel, Meridian Telekoms, Inc. and PT&T can provide such services from fiber-optic links, wireless broadband, to simple and triple redundancy.\n\nIn real estate, Davao City has huge open spaces that can be developed into an IT park or building. There are five major hotels and more than 10 business inns.\n\nIn vendor support, large vendors in Manila and Cebu are now in Davao City to cater the requirements of local companies in hardware and software: GlobalChips Technologies, Co; Trinet Multimedia Systems Corporation; Micro-D International, etc.\n\nIn power infrastructure, Davao City has the most stable power supply and one the cheapest rates in the country. Its power utility company, the Davao Light and Power Company has a backup power supply of 44 MW at its Bajada Power Plant. In the last five years, there was no recorded incidence of massive power shortage and blackouts.\n\nIn transportation, a total of 189,621 motor vehicles in the region were registered in the Land Transportation Office (LTO) XI in 2005 distributed as follows: motorcycles & tricycles - 109,142; Utility vehicles - 44,118; Taxi/Cars - 18,983; Trucks – 11,310; Sports Utility Vehicles – 4,045; Trailers – 1,265 and Buses – 758. Davao City and nearby provinces have more than 2,000 aircon/non-aircon taxi units equipped with 2-way radio system running 24 hours a day.\n\nIn local incentives, Davao City is the first local government unit in Mindanao to provide incentives to investors in the city.\n\nFor quality of life, Davao City was adjudged as the most liveable city in the Philippines and included in the Top 20 in Asia.\n\nSilicon Gulf has a number of ICT organizations, and they all are under an umbrella organization, ICT Davao.\n\nICT Davao Incorporated, also known as ICT Davao and IDI, is the umbrella organization of all information and communication technology groups hosted by Davao City.\n\nWith the assistance of the Davao City Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the ICT Council of Davao was born in 2002 to champion the needs of the industry. It adopted its new name ICT Davao in 2006 and has revitalized its membership which now includes the ICT educational and technical training institutions, the sub-sector association of IT-enabled and BPO services such as contact centers, transcription providers, FOSS users, IT software and hardware vendors, i-Café operators and inventors.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3416760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3416760", "title": "Social movement unionism", "text": "Social movement unionism\n\nSocial movement unionism (SMU) is a trend of theory and practice in contemporary trade unionism. Strongly associated with the labour movements of developing countries, social movement unionism is distinct from many other models of trade unionism because it concerns itself with more than organizing workers around workplace issues, pay and terms and conditions. It engages in wider political struggles for human rights, social justice and democracy. Social movement unionism grew out of political struggles in developing countries and was theorized as a distinct industrial relations model in the late 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nIn this model, trade unions are not distinct from social movements and form part of a wider ecosystem of political activism that includes faith groups, civic and residents' organizations and student groups. These are usually organized into democratic umbrella organizations along a popular front model. The umbrella organization generally has a programme or manifesto that all affiliates commit themselves to.\n\nA prime example of social movement unionism is the link between the trade union federation Cosatu and the wider anti-apartheid struggle through the United Democratic Front in South Africa in the 1980s. More recently, Cosatu has successfully campaigned with the Treatment Action Campaign for access to medication for HIV-Aids. Social movement unionism is also a feature of the industrial relations of Brazil and the Philippines.\n\nSMU is widely considered to be a highly dynamic and successful model, as evidenced by the success against apartheid and for treatment access, and by the fact that countries practising this model have generally reversed the trend of trade union decline experienced in the developed world. For instance, union density grew in South Africa by 130% between 1985 and 1995, during a period of steep decline in many developed countries.\nIn the developed world, SMU is strongly associated with the organizing model of trade unionism, and overlaps with community unionism. SMU attempts to integrate workers, trade unions and the labour movement into broader coalitions for social and economic justice. Thus, in principle, unions and other organizations support each other in what are seen as mutually beneficial goals.\n\nThe campus living wage work of unions, which have frequently worked with chapters of United Students Against Sweatshops, are an example of the principle in practice. Similarly, the 'Teamsters for Turtles' (as their T-shirts had it) at Seattle signalled a willingness of sections of the labour movement to engage with environmental concerns.\n\nOther prominent examples include the relationship between Reclaim the Streets and the Liverpool Dockers (UK) during their strike in the late 1990s; and the relationship between the Coalition of Immokalee Workers and progressive US students during the Boot the Bell campaign. Various labour–environmental coalitions also fit this social movement model.\n\nUnion support for social justice causes can come from within the scope of their respective collective agreements. Unions are increasingly demanding that new collective agreements contain clauses that are intended to further social justice. The inclusion of social justice support in a negotiated contract, compels all parties to support these causes in a legally binding way.\n\nThis may extend to funding the education of rank and file union members in various social justice issues (i.e. fair trade policies, anti-poverty initiatives, anti-globalization campaigns and race, gender and human rights issues, etc.) and financial or technical support for non-union causes. Generally speaking, social movement unionism advocates greater levels of democracy and equality for all people, regardless of union membership.\n\nDuring contract negotiations or collective bargaining, some unions are pushing for the inclusion of various social justice clauses to be added to the collective agreement. One example of this may be a demand that a percentage of future wages be transferred to a fund to be used to effect social justice issues nationally or internationally on behalf of the union membership. Another example is a recent trend of demanding a portion of hourly wages to be deferred to a paid education leave (PEL) fund, to allow union members to leave the work place for a period of time, at no loss of pay, so they can attend social justice seminars and educational programs. These demands are forwarded as proposals to the employer during collective bargaining negotiations.\n\nThis portion needs a source. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1156012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1156012", "title": "Stevens T. Mason", "text": "Stevens T. Mason\n\nStevens Thomson Mason (October 27, 1811January 4, 1843) was an American politician who served as the first Governor of Michigan from 1835 to 1840. Coming to political prominence at an early age, Mason was appointed his territory's acting Territorial Secretary by Andrew Jackson at 19, becoming the acting territorial governor soon thereafter in 1834 at 22. As territorial governor, Mason was instrumental in guiding Michigan to statehood, which was secured in 1837. A member of the Democratic Party, he was elected as Michigan's first state governor in 1835, where he served until 1840. Elected at 23 and taking office at 24, Mason was and remains the youngest state governor in American history.\n\nMason was born near Leesburg in Loudoun County, Virginia, into a politically powerful family. His great-grandfather, Thomson Mason (1733–1785), was chief justice of the Virginia supreme court and younger brother of George Mason (1725–1792), who took part in the Constitutional Convention. His grandfather, Stevens Thomson Mason (1760-1803), was a U.S. Senator from Virginia from 1794 until his death. His uncle, Armistead Thomson Mason (1787–1819), was also a U.S. Senator from Virginia. In addition, his uncles by marriage, Benjamin Howard (1760–1814) and William Taylor Barry (1784–1835), both served in the Kentucky House of Representatives and were U.S. Representatives from Kentucky. Howard was also Governor of the Louisiana (Missouri) Territory (1810–1812) and the Missouri Territory (1812–1813). Barry served as a U.S. Senator from Kentucky (1814–1816), then had a long career in a number of Kentucky government positions, and ultimately became U.S. Postmaster General (1829–1835).\n\nIn 1812, Mason's father, John Thomson Mason (1787–1850), left the Mason family stronghold in Virginia to attempt to make his own fortune in Lexington, Kentucky. In 1817, President James Monroe appointed the elder Mason United States marshal. While his business ventures were a complete failure and the family became nearly broke in the 1820s, he was a lawyer and land agent from an influential family, and went on to become an important figure in the Texas Revolution.\n\nJohn Mason was appointed Secretary of the Michigan Territory and superintendent of Indian affairs in 1830 by President Andrew Jackson. Young Stevens was more politically savvy than his father and helped to protect him from schemes launched by anti-Jackson forces. This gained him notice from the territorial governor, Lewis Cass. In 1831, President Jackson sent the elder Mason on a mission to Mexico and named Stevens to replace his father as Secretary, at the age of nineteen before he could even vote. At about the same time, Governor Cass became Jackson's Secretary of War. As the territorial secretary traditionally served as acting governor, young Mason held that role until George Bryan Porter, who was named to replace Cass in August 1831, arrived in Detroit in 1832. As it turned out, Porter was frequently absent and Mason was, for all practical purposes, the acting governor during this time, leading to his nickname of the \"Boy Governor\". Porter died of cholera in Detroit in 1834, and so Mason was once again Acting Governor of the Michigan Territory.\n\nMason was influential in petitioning for Michigan statehood. When the first petition in 1832 was not acted upon by the U.S. Congress, Mason commissioned a territorial census. When the census was completed in 1834, it determined that 86,000 people lived in the lower peninsula, more than the 60,000 required for statehood by the Northwest Ordinance of 1787. A dispute over a strip of land, the Toledo Strip, claimed by both Michigan and Ohio led to the Toledo War. President Jackson appointed Benjamin Chew Howard of Baltimore and Richard Rush of Philadelphia to arbitrate the dispute, but Mason was not satisfied with the proposal and refused to back down. Not wanting to alienate his political support in Ohio, President Jackson removed Mason as territorial secretary in August 1835 and appointed John S. (\"Little Jack\") Horner as his replacement.\n\nAlthough replaced by Horner, Mason was still popular in Michigan. Voters approved a constitution on October 5, 1835 and elected Mason as governor. However, the U.S. Congress refused to recognize Michigan as a state until the dispute with Ohio was resolved.\n\nIn 1836, facing financial difficulties due to Michigan not being recognized as a state, Mason agreed to a compromise reached by the U.S. Congress and agreed to cede the disputed land to Ohio in exchange for the western two-thirds of the Upper Peninsula (Michigan already included the eastern third). A convention in September 1836 refused to go along with Mason, but Mason finally prevailed in a second convention in December 1836. On January 26, 1837, Michigan was admitted to the Union.\n\nIn 1835, Mason had initiated an ambitious internal improvements program, which included development of three railroads and two canals (one of which was the Clinton-Kalamazoo Canal). Mason was re-elected in 1837, but the state's economy soon began to suffer from the effects of the Panic of 1837. Earlier in 1837, Mason had negotiated to fund the internal improvements program through the sale of $5,000,000 in bonds. This arrangement fell apart in 1837 and following bankruptcies by both the company building the canal and the bank backing the loans, the state was left with over $2,000,000 in bad debt. During his business trips to New York to finance his internal improvements program, Mason became acquainted with Julia Phelps and the two married on November 1, 1838.\n\nIn early 1838, Mason led the state militia in helping to thwart the Patriot War, an attempt by irregulars to invade and annex parts of Canada. The schooner \"Ann\" was seized by the Patriots on January 8 and sailed down to Gibraltar, Michigan. Mason, along with a detachment of 200 militiamen, pursued them in two steamships. A hundred Canadian militia also followed in the steamer \"Alliance\". Mason met with the Patriot leaders at Gibraltar, but the captured steamship \"Ann\" continued on toward Fort Malden on the Canadian shore. On January 9, the Patriots began shelling Fort Malden and the town of Amherstburg from the \"Ann\". The Canadian militia took up positions in the town while the Patriots moved 300 men onto the Canadian Bois Blanc Island opposite the town. The Canadian militia opened fire on the schooner when it tried to reach the island. The Canadians shot several of the ship's crew and damaged the sails and rigging. The ship drifted until it ran aground, at which point the Canadian militia boarded it, encountered no resistance, and captured the crew. The remaining Patriot forces quit Bois Blanc for the safety of the American side of the river. Several of the Patriots were wounded, a few killed, and the Canadians captured 300 muskets, 2 cannon, 10 kegs of gunpowder and various accoutrements. The actions of the so-called \"Patriots\" were charged in the U.S. as a violation of the Neutrality Act.\n\nRather than risking a contentious campaign and the possibility of an embarrassing defeat in the elections of 1839, Mason instead decided to give up politics and attempt a private law practice. His successor as governor, an old political rival, William Woodbridge, was determined to place the blame for Michigan's financial mess on Mason, and charged Mason with corruption related to the $5,000,000 loan. Mason attempted to defend himself, but his reputation was ruined.\n\nIn 1841, Mason left Michigan for New York City, where his wealthy father-in-law, Thaddeus Phelps, lived. Mason tried to establish a law practice there, but struggled to build a clientele. He caught pneumonia in the winter of 1842 and died at the age of thirty-one during the night of January 4, 1843, though his date of death is sometimes listed as January 5.\n\nMason was initially interred at New York Marble Cemetery, but on June 4, 1905, his remains were brought from New York to Detroit, accompanied by his sister Emily Mason, then age 92; his daughter, Mrs. Dorothy Mason Wright; three grandsons; and several grand-nephews and great-grandchildren. Services were conducted by Rev. David M. Cooper, who had known Mason as governor, 70 years earlier. Other notable attendees included then governor, Fred M. Warner, and the mayor of Detroit, George P. Codd. His remains were interred at Capitol Park, the site of the old Michigan Capitol. Later, a bronze statue of Mason on a granite pedestal was erected over the grave. The statue was created by sculptor Albert Weinert and depicted the young Mason in a confident pose.\n\nOn September 3, 2009, officials announced that the park would be reconfigured and the monument moved several yards. But when the crews began to excavate the site, they discovered no grave. After four days of searching, the vault containing the remains was located on June 29, 2010, a few yards south of its original site. It was believed the grave was moved from its 1905 location in 1955 to make room for a bus terminal.\n\nOn the 199th anniversary of his birth, October 27, 2010, Mason was reburied for the fourth time in a newly built vault in the pedestal beneath the bronze statue designed by Albert Weinert. Mason's great-great-great grandnephew, who resides in Grosse Ile, Michigan, witnessed the reinterment. The current Dean of the Cathedral Church of St. Paul, where funeral services were held for Mason in 1843, officiated at the ceremony. Prior to the reinterment, Mason's remains were transported to Lansing where they lay in state in the Capitol Building. Mason was only the third Michigan governor to lie in state in the Capitol.\n\nAmong his other accomplishments, Mason created an educational system and relocated the University of Michigan to Ann Arbor.\n\nMason married Julia Elizabeth Phelps in New York City on November 1, 1838. The couple had three children:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39565316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39565316", "title": "The Boss (2016 film)", "text": "The Boss (2016 film)\n\nThe Boss is a 2016 American comedy film directed by Ben Falcone and written by Falcone, Melissa McCarthy and Steve Mallory. The film stars McCarthy, Kristen Bell, Ella Anderson, Tyler Labine, Kathy Bates, Annie Mumolo, Timothy Simons, and Peter Dinklage. The film follows a wealthy woman who, after being arrested and losing her fortune, uses her assistant's daughter's Dandelion Girls cookie sales to return to the top. The film was released on April 8, 2016, by Universal Pictures, received generally negative reviews from critics and grossed $78 million worldwide.\n\nThe story follows Michelle Darnell, a titan of industry who is sent to prison for insider trading, denounced by her former lover, Renault, who still holds a heavy grudge towards her for their breakup, after getting a promotion a few years ago. After doing her time, Michelle emerges, ready to rebrand herself as America's latest sweetheart, but not everyone she steamrolled is not so quick to forgive and forget. With nowhere to go and no one to scam, Michelle is forced to move in with former assistant Claire and her young daughter, Rachel. Now at her lowest point, Michelle wastes no time in devising a winner-take-all plan to rebuild her empire.\n\n\nInitially announced as \"Michelle Darnell\", the film is based on a character McCarthy created for the comedy troupe Groundlings. Universal was at first unable to decide on the gender of the film's antagonist. Before Peter Dinklage was finally cast, the studio also considered Oprah Winfrey, Jon Hamm and Sandra Bullock as possibilities. Kathy Bates plays Ida Marquette, Darnell's mentor, and Kristen Bell plays Claire, Darnell's former personal assistant.\n\nSet in Chicago, the movie began filming in Chicago on March 12, 2015. In addition to filming in Chicago, the movie was also filmed throughout various locations in the Atlanta, Georgia area, including Agnes Scott College, Crescent Avenue in Midtown, Glenwood Park, and the Buckhead Loop area.\n\nThe first official full-length trailer was released on November 19, 2015.\nThe film was released on April 8, 2016.\n\n\"The Boss\" grossed $63.3 million in the United States and Canada, plus $15.5 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $78.8 million against a budget of $29 million.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, pre-release tracking suggested the film would gross $20–24 million from 3,480 theaters in its opening weekend, besting fellow newcomers \"Hardcore Henry\" ($7–10 million projection) and \"Demolition\" ($2–3 million projection). The film grossed $985,000 from its early Thursday screenings and $8.1 million on its first day. It went on to gross $23.6 million in its opening weekend, finishing first at the box office.\n\n\"The Boss\" received generally negative reviews from critics. Review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gives the film an approval rating of 22%, based on 182 reviews, with an average of 4.4/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Melissa McCarthy remains as fiercely talented as ever, but her efforts aren't enough to prop up the baggy mess of inconsistent gags and tissue-thin writing that brings down \"The Boss\".\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 40 out of 100, based on reviews from 39 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"C+\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\n"}
{"id": "4742174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4742174", "title": "The Peter Pyramid", "text": "The Peter Pyramid\n\nThe Peter Pyramid ( ) is a book published in 1986 by Dr. Laurence J. Peter, who also wrote \"The Peter Principle\" published in 1969.\n\nIn this book he turns his attention to proliferating bureaucracies, burgeoning officialdom and does for the system what the Peter Principle did for the individual.\n\nWith a host of unfortunate examples for real life, Dr. Peter shows how major organizations are constructed upside down, with the point of operation all but invisible beneath the bulk of a top-heavy administration.\n\nCutting through the red tape he suggests, with humour and wisdom, dozens of ways to simplify meaningless complexity and stop the current procession of the bland leading the bland.\n\n"}
{"id": "58260963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58260963", "title": "Venture Café", "text": "Venture Café\n\nVenture Café is a nonprofit hosting community-focused events and programs which support early-stage entrepreneurs.\n\nThere are currently eight Venture Cafés in cities across the Midwest, South, and Northeastern regions of the United States, and in Tokyo, Japan, and Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Each Venture Café is independently managed and runs the flagship program, the Thursday Gathering. Recently, Venture Café Providence recently was announced through a partnership with the city of Providence.\n\nThe Venture Café was originally conceived as a restaurant located in the CIC in Boston, Massachusetts. The restaurant failed to attract investment and was reimagined as a gathering for the entrepreneurial community based on the book Venture Café by Teresa Esser. Venture Café Kendall launched in 2009 bringing together hundreds of entrepreneurs each week for the flagship program, the Thursday Gathering. \n\nIn 2014, Venture Café expanded to the Cortex Innovation Community in St. Louis, Missouri, to bring together the emerging startup community. The success of the St. Louis location prompted the launch of Venture Cafés in other cities and ultimately the creation of Venture Café Global Institute, a public benefit corporation based in both St. Louis and Boston.\n\nIn 2014, the City of Boston and Venture Café Kendall opened District Hall, a free drop-in workspace for entrepreneurs, including an event venue, restaurant and coffee shop. In 2018, as part of St. Louis Cortex District's new 4220 Duncan building anchored by Microsoft, Venture Cafe launches Innovation Hall in St. Louis based upon Boston's District Hall. The St. Louis location will also be the first to launch the Education Hub, also known as EdHub STL, a program supporting and bringing together innovators in education to benefit youth access to education. EdHub STL is inspired by the Forward Through Ferguson report which calls for an innovation education hub to address the region's most entrenched educational issues.\n\nThe flagship program of Venture Café, is the Thursday Gathering, a weekly, community-focused event that provides opportunities for new and experienced entrepreneurs the ability to exchange ideas and support. The Thursday Gathering includes several free educational sessions aimed at entrepreneurs to learn how to start and run a business. The Gatherings are intentionally informal allowing for more opportunity to engage in creative and speculative ideas and look for collaborators, co-founders, mentors, or investors.\n\nVenture Cafés in St. Louis, Boston, and Philadelphia currently offer free drop-in workspace for entrepreneurs to work and collaborate in addition to paid event and meeting rooms and restaurants and coffeeshops.\n\nVenture Café Foundation in Boston currently runs the Roxbury Innovation Center and St. Louis is launching EdHub STL in 2018. Both programs focus on bringing together innovators in education including students, parents, administration, and teachers to help solve inequities in education and introduce youth to entrepreneurship and STEAM activities.\n\nCafé Nights are monthly or quarterly versions of the Thursday Gathering located outside the weekly event.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45695466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45695466", "title": "Victoria B. Mars", "text": "Victoria B. Mars\n\nVictoria B. Mars is an American heiress, businesswoman and billionaire. She previously served as the chairman of Mars, Incorporated.\n\nVictoria B. Mars is a fourth generation member of the Mars family. She is the daughter of Forrest Mars, Jr. and Virginia Cretella. She has three sisters: Marijke Mars, Pamela Mars-Wright and Valerie Mars. Her paternal great-grandfather, Franklin Clarence Mars, founded Mars, Incorporated in 1911. Her paternal great-grandmother, Ethel V. Mars, was a horsebreeder at Milky Way Farm in Giles County, Tennessee.\n\nShe was educated at Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Virginia, from which she graduated in 1974. She graduated from Yale University. She earned an MBA in Finance from the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania in 1984.\n\nShe started her career working for Mars, Incorporated in Haguenau, France in 1978, where she served as Assistant Brand Manager for Milky Way, followed by Export Manager. In 1984, she served as Director of the Marine Systems Division of Mars Electronics International. Two years later, in 1986, she was appointed Vice President of S&F, Commercial, and People and Organization for Dove of Burr Ridge, Illinois in suburban Chicago. A decade later, in 1997, she was appointed Ombudsman at Mars, Incorporated. She was still serving in that position in 2013.\n\nShe has served on the board of directors of Mars, Incorporated since 2006. Eight years later, in April 2014, she was appointed as its chairman, replacing Stephen M. Badger. She was a keynote speaker at the 2014 annual conference organized by Great Place to Work, a non-profit organization which promotes employee well-being.\n\nIn February 2015, she attended a meeting chaired by Annick Girardin, the French Minister of State for Development and Francophony, alongside Franck Riboud, the chairman of Danone, to launch the Livelihoods Funds, which promotes sustainable development in agribusiness on the African continent.\n\nShe inherited about 8 percent stake of Mars Inc. in 2016, which made her a billionaire. According to Forbes, her shares were valued worth of 5.9 billion USD (March 2018).\n\nShe serves as the secretary of the board of trustees of her alma mater, Foxcroft School.\n\nShe serves on the board of The Center for Large Landscape Conservation in Bozeman, Montana. She made charitable contributions to the Charles Darwin Foundation in 2003 and 2004. She also donated to the Galapagos Conservancy in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013.\n\nShe made donations to the Mystic Seaport, a maritime museum in Mystic, Connecticut, in 2011-2012. Additionally, she donated to the High Mountain Institute, a non-profit organization headquartered in Leadville, Colorado which teaches young people about the environment, in 2012 and 2013.\n\nShe was a donor to the Thorncroft Equestrian Center in Malvern, Pennsylvania in 2014.\n\nShe is married to David Spina and they have four children.\n"}
{"id": "14307142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14307142", "title": "Weak axiom of cost minimization", "text": "Weak axiom of cost minimization\n\nIn economics, the weak axiom of cost minimization (WACM) provides a non-parametric test of cost minimization, which can be applied only when both input price and quantity data are available for individual firms.\n"}
