{"id": "1079109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1079109", "title": "ABA digital signature guidelines", "text": "ABA digital signature guidelines\n\nThe ABA digital signature guidelines are a set of guidelines published on 1 August 1996 by the American Bar Association (ABA) Section of Science and Technology Law. The authors are members of the Section's Information Security Committee. The document was the first overview of principles and a framework for the use of digital signatures and authentication in electronic commerce from a legal viewpoint, including technologies such as certificate authorities and public key infrastructure (PKI). The guidelines were a product of a four-year collaboration by 70 lawyers and technical experts from a dozen countries, and have been adopted as the model for legislation by some states in the US, including Florida and Utah.\n\nThe Digital Signature Guidelines were followed by the Public Key Infrastructure Assessment Guidelines published by the ABA in 2003.\n\nA similar effort was undertaken in Slovenia by the Digital Signature Working Group (within the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia (CCIS)).\n\n"}
{"id": "1620260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1620260", "title": "African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights", "text": "African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights\n\nThe African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights (ACHPR) is a quasi-judicial body tasked with promoting and protecting human rights and collective (peoples') rights throughout the African continent as well as interpreting the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights and considering individual complaints of violations of the Charter. This includes investigating human rights violations, creating and approving programs of action towards encouraging human rights, and set up effect communication between them and states to get first hand information on violations of human rights. Although the ACHPR is under a regional government facility, they don't have any actual power and enforcement over laws. This ends up in them drafting up proposals to send up the chain of command to the Assembly of Heads of State and Government and they will act accordingly.\n\nThe African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights (ACHPR) was based on the Banjul Charter which is the the regional human rights protectors of human rights for Africa .The charter has twenty-nine articles that go into great detail on the rights and freedoms that follow a strict code of non-discrimination. The support and excitement over the Europeans current rights system, the evolution of granting everyone human rights, is what helped streamline the creation of this commission and other courts in Africa. The Commission came into existence with the coming into force, on 21 October 1986, of the African Charter (adopted by the OAU on 27 June 1981). Although its authority rests on its own treaty, the African Charter, the Commission reports to the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the African Union (formerly the Organization of African Unity). Its first members were elected by the OAU's 23rd Assembly of Heads of State and Government in June 1987 and the Commission was formally installed for the first time on 2 November of that year. For the first two years of its existence, the Commission was based at the OAU Secretariat in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, but in November 1989 it relocated to Banjul, Gambia. (NB: The ACHPR should be distinguished from the African Union Commission, as the OAU Secretariat has been renamed since the creation of the African Union.)\n\nThe Commission meets twice a year: usually in March or April and in October or November. One of these meetings is usually in Banjul, where the Commission's secretariat is located; the other may be in any African state.\n\nThe commission opened it’s doors in 1987 with promises of the protection and evolution of Africa’s human rights. The Assembly of Head and State and Government,make there decisions by a vote of two-thirds the majority of all representatives from each country. The ACHPR is made up of eleven members, elected by secret ballot at the OAU Assembly of Heads of State and Government (subsequently, by the AU's Assembly). These members, who serve six-year renewable terms, are \"chosen from amongst African personalities of the highest reputation, known for their high morality, integrity, impartiality and competence in matters of human and peoples' rights\" (Charter, Article 31) and, in selecting these personalities, particular consideration is given \"to persons having legal experience\". \n\nThe members are to enjoy full independence in discharging their duties and serve on a personal basis (i.e., not representing their home states); however, no member state may have more than one of its nationals on the Commission at any given time. The members choose, from among their own number, a chairperson and a Vice Chairperson, who each serve two-year renewable terms.\n\nThe Commission has three broad areas of responsibility:\n\n\nThe goals above may have been halted as the Commission was placed under heavy burdens, mainly financial issues in the late 80's, as they tried to complete activities for the countries . The countries of Africa,excluding Ethiopia and Liberia, are heavily influenced by colonialism, overall has a weak government, and a declining economy. In pursuit of these goals, the Commission is mandated to \"collect documents, undertake studies and researches on African problems in the field of human and peoples, rights, organise seminars, symposia and conferences, disseminate information, encourage national and local institutions concerned with human and peoples' rights and, should the case arise, give its views or make recommendations to governments\" (Charter, Art. 45).\n\nWith the creation of the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights (under a protocol to the Charter which was adopted in 1998 and entered into force in January 2004), the Commission will have the additional task of preparing cases for submission to the Court's jurisdiction. In a July 2004 decision, the AU Assembly resolved that the future Court on Human and Peoples' Rights would be integrated with the African Court of Justice. In 2011, the commission brought before the African Court on Human and Peoples' Rights a case against Libya.\n\nThe commission has several special mechanisms in the form of special rapporteurs, working groups or committees that investigate and report on specific human rights issues.\n\nThere are six special rapporteurs who monitor, investigate and report on allegations of violations in member states of the African Union.\n\nThere are eight working groups, two committees and one study group that monitor and investigate various issues under the purview of the commission: \n\n\nThe ACHPR relies on a network of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that are required to submit reports to the commission every two years. The commission has granted 514 NGOs with observer status. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "323601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323601", "title": "American Convention on Human Rights", "text": "American Convention on Human Rights\n\nThe American Convention on Human Rights, also known as the Pact of San José, is an international human rights instrument. It was adopted by many countries in the Western Hemisphere in San José, Costa Rica, on 22 November 1969. It came into force after the eleventh instrument of ratification (that of Grenada) was deposited on 18 July 1978.\n\nThe bodies responsible for overseeing compliance with the Convention are the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, both of which are organs of the Organization of American States (OAS).\n\nAccording to its preamble, the purpose of the Convention is \"to consolidate in this hemisphere, within the framework of democratic institutions, a system of personal liberty and social justice based on respect for the essential rights of man.\"\n\nChapter I establishes the general obligation of the states parties to uphold the rights set forth in the Convention to all persons under their jurisdiction, and to adapt their domestic laws to bring them into line with the Convention. The 23 articles of Chapter II give a list of individual civil and political rights due to all persons, including the right to life \"in general, from the moment of conception\", to humane treatment, to a fair trial, to privacy, to freedom of conscience, freedom of assembly, freedom of movement, etc. Article 15 prohibits \"any propaganda for war and any advocacy of national, racial, or religious hatred that constitute incitement to lawless violence or to any other similar action against any person on any grounds including those of race, color, religion, language, or national origin\" to be considered as offence punishable by law. This provision is established under influence of Article 20 of the International Covenant of Civil and Political Rights. The single article in Chapter III deals with economic, social, and cultural rights.\nThe somewhat cursory treatment given to this issue here was expanded some ten years later with the Protocol of San Salvador (see below).\n\nChapter IV describes those circumstances in which certain rights can be temporarily suspended, such as during states of emergency, and the formalities to be followed for such suspension to be valid. However, it does not authorize any suspension of Article 3 (right to juridical personality), Article 4 (right to life), Article 5 (right to humane treatment), Article 6 (freedom from slavery), Article 9 (freedom from ex post facto laws), Article 12 (freedom of conscience and religion), Article 17 (right to family), Article 18 (right to the name), Article 19 (rights of the child), Article 20 (right to nationality), or Article 23 (right to participate in government).\n\nChapter V, with a nod to the balance between rights and duties enshrined in the earlier American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, points out that individuals have responsibilities as well as rights.\n\nChapters VI, VII, VIII, and IX contain provisions for the creation and operation of the two bodies responsible for overseeing compliance with the Convention: the Inter-American Commission, based in Washington, D.C., United States, and the Inter-American Court, headquartered in San José, Costa Rica.\n\nChapter X deals with mechanisms for ratifying the Convention, amending it or placing reservations in it, or denouncing it. Various transitory provisions are set forth in Chapter XI.\n\nIn the ensuing years, the states parties to the American Convention have supplemented its provisions with two additional protocols.\n\nThe first, the Additional Protocol to the American Convention on Human Rights in the area of Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights (more commonly known as the \"Protocol of San Salvador\"), was opened for signature in the city of San Salvador, El Salvador, on 17 November 1988. It represented an attempt to take the inter-American human rights system to a higher level by enshrining its protection of so-called second-generation rights in the economic, social, and cultural spheres. The protocol's provisions cover such areas as the right to work, the right to health, the right to food, and the right to education. It came into effect on 16 November 1999 and has been ratified by 16 nations (see below).\n\nThe second, the Protocol to the American Convention on Human Rights to Abolish the Death Penalty, was adopted at Asunción, Paraguay, on 8 June 1990. \nWhile Article 4 of the American Convention had already placed severe restrictions on the states' ability to impose the death penalty – only applicable for the most serious crimes; no reinstatement once abolished; not to be used for political offenses or common crimes; not to be used against those aged under 18 or over 70, or against pregnant women – signing this protocol formalizes a state's solemn commitment to refrain from using capital punishment in any peacetime circumstance. To date it has been ratified by 13 nations (see below).\n\nThe Inter-American Court makes a broad interpretation of the American Convention. It interprets it according to the pro hominem principle, in an evolutive fashion and making use of other treaties and soft law. The result is that, in practice, the Inter-American Court modifies the content of the American Convention.\n\n, 25 of the 35 OAS's member states have ratified the Convention, while two have denounced it subsequently, leaving 23 active parties:\nTrinidad and Tobago denounced the Convention on 26 May 1998 (effective 26 May 1999) over the death penalty issue. Venezuela denounced the Convention on 10 September 2012 accusing the Inter-American Court and Commission to undermine its Government's stability by interfering with its domestic affairs. Necessary reforms of the institution were blocked. Therefore, it would henceforth increase its cooperation with the United Nations Human Rights Council.\nDenunciations, according to Article 78 of the ACHR, become effective one year after having been declared. They do not release the state party from its obligations resulting from acts that have occurred before the effective date of denunciation.\n\nThe treaty is open to all OAS member states, although to date it has not been ratified by Canada or several of the English-speaking Caribbean nations; the United States signed it in 1977 but has not proceeded with ratification.\n\nCanada did at one point seriously consider ratification, but has decided against it, despite being in principle in favour of such a treaty. The ACHR, having been largely drafted by the predominantly Roman Catholic nations of Latin America, contains pro-life provisions, specifically, Article 4.1:\n\nThis conflicts with the current legality of abortions in Canada. Although Canada could ratify the convention with a reservation with respect to abortion (as did Mexico), that would contradict Canada's stated opposition to the making of reservations to human rights treaties. Another solution would be for the other states to remove the anti-abortion provisions, but that is unlikely to occur due to strong opposition to abortion in those countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26334539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26334539", "title": "Anti-whaling", "text": "Anti-whaling\n\nAnti-whaling refers to actions taken by those who seek to end whaling in various forms, whether locally or globally in the pursuit of marine conservation. Such activism is often a response to specific conflicts with pro-whaling countries and organizations that practice commercial whaling and/or research whaling, as well as with indigenous groups engaged in subsistence whaling. Some anti-whaling factions have received criticism and legal action for extreme methods including violent direct action. The term anti-whaling may also be used to describe beliefs and activities related to these actions.\n\nAnti-whaling activism has a short history compared to other forms of activism and environmental awareness. Early members of environmental organizations began protesting whale hunts around the world in the 20th century. These actions were in direct response to the global depletion of whale populations due to over-exploitation by the whaling industry and the failure of international whaling regulations.\n\nThe League of Nations raised concerns about the over-exploitation of whale stocks and called for conservation measures in 1925. This eventually led to the Geneva Convention for the Regulation of Whaling which was presented in 1931 but did not enter into force until 1934 and was completely ignored by Germany and Japan.\n\nIn 1937 the International Conference on Whaling added limits on pelagic whaling in order to prevent excessive exploitation (and specifically the extinction of the blue whale), thereby creating the International Agreement for the Regulation of Whaling.\n\nThe International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling was created in 1946 in Washington to \"provide for the proper conservation of whale stocks and thus make possible the orderly development of the whaling industry\". Based on the previous 1937 Agreement and subsequent protocols to that agreement in 1938 and 1945, the ICRW led to the 1949 creation of the International Whaling Commission along with guidelines for the international regulation of coastal and pelagic whaling. Critics charge that the IWC and ICRW have largely failed due to a lack of enforceable rules and regulatory loopholes.\n\nIn 1966 the Convention on Fishing and Conservation of Living Resources of the High Seas took the first steps in marine conservation worldwide. This international treaty was designed to specifically counter the over-exploitation of sealife including whales.\n\nIn 1972, the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment produced a 52-0 vote in favor of a 10-year global moratorium on commercial whaling. However, the UN resolution was not adopted by the IWC. Iceland, Japan, Norway, Panama, Russia and South Africa voted no.\n\nIn 1973, a moratorium was once again proposed and voted down in the IWC lacking the required 3/4 majority. Iceland, Japan, Norway, Russia and South Africa voted no.\n\nBetween 1973 and 1982 the IWC would see its membership increase from 14 countries to 37.\n\nIn 1972 the United States passed the Marine Mammal Protection Act as the first article of legislation to call specifically for an ecosystem approach to natural resource management and conservation. The act prohibits the hunting and killing of marine mammals, and enacts a moratorium on the import, export, and sale of any marine mammal, along with any marine mammal part or product within the United States. That same year the United States also enacted the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act which established the National Marine Sanctuaries program.\n\nThe United States would later play a significant role in the acceptance of a global moratorium on commercial whaling due to its domestic laws. In particular the 1971 Pelly Amendment to the US Fishermen's Protection Act gives the US President legal authority to prohibit importation of fish products from any nation that is diminishing the effectiveness of fisheries conservation programs. It was later strengthened by the 1979 Packwood-Magnuson Amendment to the Fishery Conservation and Management Act giving additional sanctioning power with regard to the ICRW.\n\nPopular culture grew to widely accept whales and dolphins as interesting, entertaining and intelligent over the latter half of the 20th century. From the original tourist attractions at Marineland to giant SeaWorld theme parks, captive dolphins and orcas (killer whales) became star attractions. The 1960s television series, \"Flipper\", starred a Lassie-like dolphin character who befriends a young boy and performs feats of intelligence often saving the day. The 1967 novel, \"The Day of the Dolphin\" which inspired the 1973 film, featured dolphins trained to speak English that help to save the world from nuclear destruction. In 1970 the biologist and environmentalist Roger Payne recorded and produced the popular \"Songs of the Humpback Whale\" album, after his 1967 discovery (with Scott McVay) of Whale song among Humpback whales.\n\nWith the growing popularity of entertaining cetaceans came information and even warnings about the threats to these adored animals. In 1966, Scott McVay first revealed the plight of whales to the public in his article, \"The Last of the Great Whales\", for \"Scientific American\" and two years later \"Can Leviathan Long Endure So Wide a Chase?\" in \"Natural History\". Joan McIntyre (who later went on to found Project Jonah in 1972) both celebrated the whale and condemned the whaler in the 1974 publication, \"Mind in the Waters\". In 1975, \"Audubon\" dedicated an entire issue to whales titled, \"Vanishing Giants.\" From 1968-1976 \"The UnderSeaWorld of Jacques Cousteau\" included film of whales, dolphins and other marine mammals as subjects of educational television. In 1977, \"National Geographic\" aired \"The Great Whales\" with scenes of whales being killed.\n\nBefore long, the words \"Save the Whales\" began to appear on bumper stickers, fliers, T-shirts and petitions. Conservation groups dedicated to this purpose formed including both average citizens and social radicals whose ideas on how to respond varied widely. The first was the American Cetacean Society which was formed in 1971 and quickly followed by the Whale Center and Connecticut Cetacean Society. Well established environmental organizations like the World Wildlife Fund, the National Wildlife Federation, the Humane Society of the United States, the Sierra Club and the National Audubon Society also joined the movement.\n\nThe environmental organization Greenpeace formed in the early 1970s as an offshoot of the Sierra Club. In 1975 Greenpeace launched its first anti-whaling campaign by actively confronting Soviet whaling fleets in the North Pacific. Two years later a splinter group of Greenpeace members formed the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society to protect sea life specifically using radical methods of direct action.\n\nThe environmental group Greenpeace pioneered anti-whaling activism in the form of direct action. Paul Spong, a New Zealand scientist who once studied the intelligence of orcas and friend of Canadian author Farley Mowat, helped convince then Greenpeace director, Robert Hunter, that the organization should confront Russian whalers in the Pacific. Spong, under the guise of a scientist studying sperm whales, gained vital information on the coordinates of whaling fleets from the Bureau of Whaling Statistics in Norway. With this information, Greenpeace sailed out aboard the \"Phyllis Cormack\", named for the wife of its original owner.\n\nOn June 27, 1975, members of Canadian Greenpeace took the first ever direct action against whalers who were actively whaling near the Mendocino Ridge about 40 miles west of California. The Greenpeace activists navigated small inflatable Zodiac boats between the Russian whalers of the \"Dalniy Vostok\" fleet and the hunted whales. The tactic was intended to prevent the whaling ship gunner from firing the harpoon cannon due to the risk of accidentally striking and harming one of the activists. However, the Russian catcher ship \"Vlastny\" fired directly over the heads of Robert Hunter and activist Paul Watson. The event was filmed by Greenpeace and later broadcast in the United States by the CBS Evening News with Walter Cronkite and other major television networks. The activists were unable to stop the Russian whalers but the airing of this event on television was significant in raising public awareness by making the \"Save the Whales\" movement front-page news for the first time.\n\nIn mid-July 1976, the Canadian Greenpeace deployed a newly acquired ship, an ex-minesweeper called the \"James Bay\", to confront the \"Dalniy Vostok\" factory ship and its catcher fleet once again. The activists found the Russian whalers midway between California and Hawaii. However, this time the whalers did not fire their harpoon cannons. Instead, the Russian fleet retreated and Greenpeace chased the whalers for two days and nights before being forced to return to Hawaii for refueling. After replenishing their fuel and supplies, the activists found and disrupted the Russian fleet again and chased the whalers northward as far as their fuel permitted.\n\nAt the end of July 1977, the \"James Bay\" once again found Russian whalers in the Pacific. This time the factory ship \"Vladivostok\", sister ship of the \"Vostok\", and its catcher fleet was confronted about 700 miles off the coast of California. The activists filmed whalers at work and documented the Russians taking undersized whales. The human barrier tactic was used again but the whalers fired over the activists.\n\nA newly formed Hawaii based Greenpeace organization joined in the Pacific campaign against Russian whalers with a fast former sub-chaser called the \"Ohana Kai\". The activists found the \"Vostok\" fleet 1,000 miles north of Hawaii. With her superior speed, the \"Ohana Kai\" chased the \"Vostok\" which ceased whaling during the pursuit. After a week, a team of activists boarded the \"Vostok\" with anti-whaling propaganda for the crew. At end of the summer the \"Vladivostok\" ceased whaling for another week, while it was followed by the \"James Bay\", and was also boarded by the activists.\n\nFor several years leading up to September 1977, the environmental organization, Project Jonah, campaigned against whaling in Australia by lobbying, raising public awareness and increasing domestic pressure on the Australian government to close down the last whaling station, the Cheyne Beach Whaling Station. French activist, Jean-Paul Fortom-Gouin, was impressed with the Greenpeace actions in the North Pacific and decided on a more aggressive approach.\n\nFortom-Gouin financed the operation and dubbed his group, which included Greenpeace's Robert Hunter, the Whale and Dolphin Coalition (Fortom-Gouin had also largely financed the Greenpeace-Hawaii action against Russian whalers). He had previously worked with the Australian Project Jonah while serving as Panama's official representative to the IWC meeting in Canberra just two months prior.\n\nThe effort to intervene against whaling in Australia did not go smoothly. In town, a gang of bikers called \"God's Garbage\", whose members also happened to be employed butchering whales, harassed the demonstrators. The activist group had not managed to arrange for a large mother-ship to support their Zodiacs as they chased whalers tens of miles out into shark filled waters in small inflatable boats carrying loads of excess fuel. The whaling company even brought the media out on its own boats after several days of prepping the reporters and explaining the benefits of whaling. When the activists attempted to get between the whalers and their targets the gunners fired over the Zodiacs resulting in several close calls for their crews. In the end, the action did not save a single whale.\n\nHowever, thanks to Project Jonah's long term lobbying and educational efforts, Australian public opinion against whaling was estimated to be about 70 percent. In fact, Phoebe Fraser, the young daughter of the Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser, wore a \"Save the Whale\" badge during the election campaign. The Prime Minister appointed an independent inquiry which recommended in 1978 that Australia outlaw whaling, ban all production and import of whale products and change its policies to oppose whaling domestically and internationally. Australia became an anti-whaling nation.\n\nA non-government observer at the IWC took an interest in the unseen whaling operations conducted by private interests outside of the regulatory body. Through an international network of contacts and with financial assistance from environmental organizations, Nick Carter traced documents of insurance, ownership, billing, import and export and more. His determined research uncovered evidence of unregulated whaling on a massive scale that environmentalists refer to as \"pirate whaling\".\n\nOne pirate whaler in particular came to represent the worst of the unregulated whaling industry. Carter's evidence exposed the MV \"Sierra\" as a diesel powered hybrid catcher-factory ship hunting throughout the Atlantic in violation of many national laws, and completely without regard for international whaling regulations. The name of the vessel (\"Robert W. Vinke\", MV \"Run\", MV \"Sierra\") and its ownership (companies from the Netherlands to Norway, Liechtenstein, the Bahamas, South Africa and Panama) had changed several times as well as her home port (various European and African ports) and flags of convenience (Dutch, Bahamian, Sierra Leonean, Somalian, Cypriot). \"Sierra\" was whaling illegally in areas forbidden by the IWC, prosecuted in the Bahamas and South Africa, forbidden entry to British controlled ports, and more. She harpooned critically endangered species, undersized whales, mothers and nursing calves, regardless of season, without license and without reporting her actions.\n\nTo maximize profits, \"Sierra\"'s motley international crew (which even staged a mutiny that left one Norwegian captain wounded and marooned in Angola) used cold harpoons without expensive explosive tips, which prolonged the suffering of the animal, and often kept only the prime-cuts of meat while dumping most of the whale carcass. The design of the ship itself, a catcher-factory hybrid complete with freezers to preserve the meat, enabled \"Sierra\" to operate in a cost effective manner without a large fleet that would draw attention.\n\nIn October, 1975, Carter released his investigative report to IWC commissioners and observers as well as international news media. The Norwegian bank, Forrentningsbanken, was exposed as the owner which prompted an immediate change to Beacon-Sierra Ltd.. Japan's Taiyo Fishing Company was implicated with copies of a contract with \"Sierra\" for meat production, photos and names of Japanese crew aboard \"Sierra\", and photos of cargo falsely labeled \"Fresh Frozen Whale Meat. Produce of Spain\" transferred to a Japanese cargo ship.\n\nNick Carter was officially recognized by the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) for his investigative role in exposing pirate whaling as well as other illicit trade in wildlife after his death in 2000. He was previously awarded the Goldman Prize in 1997 and highly regarded in his home country and internationally among conservationists.\n\nHowever, in the 1970s pirate whaling continued despite the public exposure and \"Sierra\" would not be stopped until a fateful confrontation with another anti-whaling activist named Paul Watson.\n\nAllen Thornton, a Canadian activist, traveled to England in 1976 to establish a European Greenpeace presence. His fund raising efforts drew generous donations from comedian Spike Milligan and The Beatles. In 1977, he helped establish Greenpeace-UK. The new office was followed by additional Greenpeace offices in France, the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark. Greenpeace activist, David McTaggart, assumed overall leadership of Greenpeace International. With the contributions in Europe and a grant from the World Wildlife Fund, the Greenpeace ship, \"Rainbow Warrior\", was deployed in 1978 to confront Iceland's whalers in the North Atlantic.\nIn the 1978 campaign, the \"Rainbow Warrior\" spent a month interfering with whaling operations in Icelandic waters without incident. \n\nIn the 1986 Hvalur sinkings, activists from the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society sank two unoccupied whaling vessels, \"Hvalur 6\" and \"Hvalur 7\", and sabotaged a whale processing station in Hvalfjörður.\n\nAfter splitting from Greenpeace, activist Paul Watson, with funding and support from Cleveland Amory (founder of The Fund for Animals), acquired a 779-ton deep-water trawler and renamed the ship, the \"Sea Shepherd\". The bow of the ship was reinforced with many tons of concrete and set out for the North Atlantic to confront the infamous pirate whaler, \"Sierra\".\nCraig Van Note, of the Monitor Consortium (a group of conservation organizations based in Washington), provided Watson with vital information on the location of the \"Sierra\" from a global network of sources.\n\nOn July 15, 1979, the \"Sea Shepherd\" found the \"Sierra\" near Oporto, Portugal and chased the whaler to the port of Leixoes. \"Sierra\" pretended to enter the port as if to dock and avoid further confrontation. However, as the \"Sea Shepherd\" entered the port the \"Sierra\" turned and fled leaving Watson to deal with the Portuguese harbor pilots who boarded the ship to guide her in, and the harbor officials who planned to detain the activist vessel. Fourteen members of the crew were unwilling to continue and Watson left them ashore taking the \"Sea Shepherd\" out with a crew of three after the \"Sierra\".\n\nWhen Watson caught up with the \"Sierra\" he put the concrete reinforced bow to work and rammed the pirate whaler. The first strike landed at the bow of the \"Sierra\" in a failed attempt to knock out the harpoon gun. For the second and final blow, the \"Sea Shepherd\" rammed the \"Sierra\" amidships leaving a large gash in the pirate whaler's hull. Despite the damage, \"Sierra\" was able to limp back to Leixoes but hundreds of thousands of dollars and months of repairs would be needed to make the ship sea worthy again. \"Sea Shepherd\" attempted to escape but was quickly met by a Portuguese destroyer and escorted back to port. Watson was briefly arrested and was threatened with the forfeiture of his ship by the decision of a Portuguese court. After several months of efforts to have the \"Sea Shepherd\" released, and with most of its valuable equipment stolen, Watson and engineer Peter Woof scuttled the ship to prevent her from falling into the whalers' hands.\n\nIn February 1980, just as the \"Sierra\" was nearly completely repaired and refitted to continue whaling, unknown saboteurs hired by the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society used magnetic limpet mines to blow a hole in her side and sank the pirate whaler in Lisbon harbor, permanently ending her career.\n\nHowever, \"Sierra\" was hardly the world's only pirate whaling ship. Nick Carter's continued efforts, in addition to investigations by Greenpeace and other groups, also uncovered pirate whalers in South America with an operation in Brazil labeled as a \"Japanese whaling colony\" by environmentalists. In Chile, a whaler operating in the service of a Panamanian front company conducted coastal whaling. In Peru, three pirate whalers were hunting year-round. Elsewhere, in Taiwan four pirate whaling ships were taking whales from the South China Sea and others out of Korea were at work in the Sea of Japan. In each case, links to Japanese companies (particularly Taiyo Gyogyo) were discovered.\n\nIn April 1979, Colin Eglin, leader of the South African opposition, urged the government to investigate pirate whaling while Andrew Behr (owner of the \"Sierra\" and other pirate whalers) now denied any links to such activities. However, at the same time two Panamanian flagged whaling ships, \"Susan\" and \"Theresa\" (each named for Behr's daughters), were being converted into hybrid factory-catcher ships just like the \"Sierra\" by a South African shipbuilder.\nA \"Cape Times\" reporter, Stephen Wrottesley, also discovered the Sierra Fishing Company was hiring a new crew in the Cape Town area and another ship, the MV \"Fisher\" (formerly the MV \"Yashima Maru\"), was also being refitted for whaling and was registered in Panama. Nick Carter, his colleague Nan Rice, and many other conservationists personally urged Colin Eglin to act while international environmental organizations pressured the government for an official inquiry. When port authorities ordered all South African nationals off of the \"Fisher\", a foreign crew took the ship to the Canary Islands and it was renamed the \"Astrid\". Soon after, the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society distributed wanted posters advertising a $25,000 reward to anyone who would sink it. Andrew Behr relocated himself and his family to England and the \"Susan\" and \"Theresa\" were seized as a result of the inquiry. The legal battle to have the ships released failed and years later the two pirate whalers were used for target practice and destroyed by the South African Navy.\n\nIndustria Ballenera SA (IBSA) was Spain's only remaining whaling company which had operated with government support and without the restrictions of international regulations as Spain was not a member of the IWC. However, as a result of the \"Sierra\" scandal and increasing pressure from the US, Japan officially banned the import of whale meat from non-IWC members on July 5, 1979. Predictably, Spain joined the IWC at the start of its next annual meeting and continued to ship whale meat to Japan.\n\nIn December 1979, two explosions were heard in the port of Corbubión (Galicia, Spain) but the whaling ships there were not damaged. Then on April 27, 1980, the whalers \"Ibsa I\" and \"Ibsa II\" were sunk in the port of Marin by unknown saboteurs hired by the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society with limpet mines in a manner similar to the sinking of the \"Sierra\".\n\nLater on June 17, 1980, Greenpeace activists aboard the \"Rainbow Warrior\" confronted the whaling ship, \"Ibsa III\", again deploying zodiacs to maneuver between the whalers and the whales. After a few hours of interference, warships from the Spanish Navy arrived to pursue and eventually board the Greenpeace ship. The activist crew was formally arrested and the \"Rainbow Warrior\" confiscated despite claims that the incident took place in international waters.\n\nCharged in a military court, the captain of the \"Rainbow Warrior\", Jonathan Castle, refused to pay the $142,000 fine (1,200,000 pesetas) and the ship was held in the military harbor O Ferrol. Spanish authorities disabled the activist vessel by removing the thrust block from its engine. However, for five months Greenpeace members kept the ship otherwise seaworthy while a secret effort was made to find a new thrust block. A replacement part was found, smuggled into Spain, and walked past the Spanish guards by Greenpeace members laughing and acting as if returning from a bout of drinking. Finally, on November 8 the \"Rainbow Warrior\" escaped under cover of darkness during a changing of the guard. The Spanish Navy was unable (or unwilling) to find and recapture the activists who were given a heroes' welcome in Jersey on November 11 by cheering crowds. Later, on November 15, the ship finally arrived to Amsterdam, her base.\n\nIn 1981, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party sponsored a motion long supported by organized environmental lobbying to compel Spain's IWC delegates to vote for a moratorium and immediate halt to whaling. The motion passed on December 16 of the same year with an overwhelming majority.\n\nIn 1979 the influence of environmentalists was realized in the membership of the International Whaling Commission through the nation of Seychelles. Dr. Sidney Holt, a well known marine biologist and former IWC scientific committee member (one of the \"Three Wise Men\"), envisioned an ocean refuge for whales. Holt's companion, Lyall Watson, a respected nature writer in Seychelles, put him in contact with the nation's president, Albert Rene. The tiny island country joined the IWC and Holt watched from an NGO observer's seat as Lyall Watson led the Seychelles delegation to propose and succeed in establishing an Indian Ocean whale sanctuary.\n\nHowever, the environmental victory did not come without cost. Japan responded in 1980 by ending a grant scheme to Seychelles for a fisheries research and training vessel. A letter from the Japanese ambassador explained this grant would not be extended to the tiny island nation due to its position in the International Whaling Commission and stated this decision would be reversed if the attitude of the Seychelles government changed at the IWC. Surprisingly, Maxine Ferrari, the Seychelles Minister of Development and Planning, quickly rejected and condemned Japan's actions. On January 9, 1981, the \"Sumi Maru No. 25\", a Japanese fishing boat, was seized while fishing in Seychelles waters and fined $115,000. In April, 1982, Japanese Prime Minister Zenko Suzuki offered a $40 million aid package to Seychelles which was ultimately rejected as well.\n\nThe Soviets reasoned that the best way to conduct a subsistence hunt was to employ a single modern whaling ship, the \"Zevezdny\", to catch whales on behalf of the Siberian native people. Instead of the average 10 to 30 whales historically claimed in one year, after 1955 the quota rose to nearly 200 gray whales and international observers were not permitted.\n\nOn August 9, 1981, Paul Watson led a new crew, aboard the \"Sea Shepherd II\", from Nome, Alaska into the territorial waters of the Soviet Union. When the activists arrived at the Soviet whaling station village of Loren they quickly discovered that the whaling operation had been dedicated to producing feed for a commercial mink farm, complete with non-aboriginal blonde haired, blue eyed Russian workers. They managed to film and photograph the whaling station. The evidence was later turned over to Congress. The activists were soon running from the Russian military, including helicopter gunships and a destroyer, but managed to escape into American waters.\n\nOn July 18, 1983, Greenpeace made its own incursion into Siberia during the week of the annual IWC conference. Greenpeace also landed at the whaling station at Loren. However, the Russians were not going to be caught off guard again. Soldiers and police arrested the seven that made it ashore. The \"Rainbow Warrior\" was also chased by warships and helicopters and after a six-hour ordeal safely returned to the US.\n\nThe Greenpeace activists were held captive for several days before a transfer was arranged with an American delegation led by Nome, Alaska Mayor, Leo Rasmussen. On the US-Russian border in the Bering Strait, the \"Rainbow Warrior\" peacefully met Russian warships to retrieve its crew. Rasmussen gave the Soviets an \"I Love Nome\" button and returned with the activists aboard a Greenpeace zodiac.\n\nIn January 1979, a Greenpeace investigator, Campbell Plowden, narrowly avoided arrest by the Chilean DINA (secret police) as he gathered information, including photographic evidence, on the whaling operation in San Vicente, Chile|. In 1981, two more Greenpeace activists covertly researched Chilean coastal whaling. They found a fleet of three outdated whaling ships that were only able to land 77 whales in 1976 but increased the quota to 500 in 1978.\n\nGreenpeace discovered Japan's investment in Chilean whaling included a hybrid catcher-factory ship originally named the \"Orient Maru No. 2\", then renamed the \"Paulmy Star III\", and in 1980 it became the \"Juan 9\". Although it was prohibited to sell whaling equipment to non-members, export documents revealed the whaling ship was falsely listed as a shrimp trawler before Chile joined the IWC. The whalers consistently violated IWC regulations including hunting out of season and killing protected species. In 1984, the propeller shaft of the \"Juan 9\" broke resulting in financial troubles that led creditors to seize the ship the next year.\n\nIn 1979 and 1980, Greenpeace activists gathered evidence of pirate whaling operations in the South China Sea and uncovered a regional unregulated whale meat trade implicating Taiwan (China), South Korea, and Japan. People in Taiwan officials denied the existence of the pirate whalers, and Japan denied importing whale meat from Taiwan. However, the investigators discovered four (formerly Japanese) whaling ships (\"Sea Bird\", \"Sea Flower\", \"Chi Hsin\", \"Chu Feng\") with Taiwanese crews, Japanese officers, and Panamanian flags.\n\nThe investigation continued in Japan's Tsukiji market where Campbell Plowden and Rebecca Clark found whale meat, packed by Marine Enterprises Co. Ltd (a South Korean front company), that had originally come from Taiwan. In 1979, Japan reported the import of 1,800 tons of whale meat from South Korea, but the Koreans had only reported the export of 400 tons. This led Plowden and Clark to the Marine Enterprises processing plant to gather proof of Taiwan provided whale meat repackaged as a product of Korea for shipment to Japan.\n\nIn late February 1980, just days after these findings were reported to the United States government, Japanese customs agents seized 300 tons of Korean whale meat as illegally imported from Taiwan. The Taiwanese government responded to the threat of sanctions from the US and to the loss of Japan's support by impounding the pirate whaling ships.\n\nIn February 1978, an endangered blue whale washed ashore near the town of Conchan, Peru and died from massive harpoon wounds as Peruvian conservationist, Felipe Benavides watched.\n\nA Peruvian subsidiary of Japan's Taiyo Fisheries, known as Victoria del Mar, operated three coastal whaling ships (\"Victoria\" 1, 2, and 7) with a shore station in Paita. In 1982, Greenpeace sent in the \"Rainbow Warrior\". On the December 13, several Greenpeace activists boarded the \"Victoria 7\" and chained themselves to the harpoon cannon. A day later, Peruvian marines cut the chains and arrested the protesters.\n\nThe Greenpeace activists were threatened with charges of piracy. However, many Peruvians protested on their behalf including Felipe Benavides, who had opposed whaling for nearly 30 years. After several days, the activists were released with a $3,000 fine, and two weeks later, the \"Rainbow Warrior\" was released as well. Despite continued protest and international diplomatic pressure, Peru continued whaling until 1986.\n\nAfter growing pressure from member nations, in 1979, the IWC established the Indian Ocean Whale Sanctuary as a practical conservation measure. Three years later, in 1982, the IWC adopted a moratorium on commercial whaling, which took effect in 1986 and allowed for scientific research whaling. When Japan resumed whale hunts under the auspices of a research program, some anti-whaling countries and organizations criticized the moratorium's loophole for continued commercial whaling. On March 31, 2014, the International Court of Justice ruled that Japan must stop its whaling in the Antarctic.\n\nIn 1994, the IWC created the Southern Ocean Whale Sanctuary in Antarctica to protect whales in their breeding grounds. Two additional sanctuaries were proposed in 1998 by anti-whaling nations, but they failed to get enough votes in the IWC.\n\nThroughout the past decade, while pro- and anti-whaling nations debated and deliberated at the IWC, private activists have organized a range of protests against commercial whaling. Most notably, Greenpeace and Sea Shepherd Conservation Society continue separate campaigns of direct action against whale hunts conducted by Norway, Iceland, and Japan. Both also conduct media campaigns and other public outreach to raise awareness. Each organization criticizes the other for differing activist philosophies and each, in turn, receives criticism from both pro- and anti-whaling countries.\n\nTensions have grown over the past few years during Sea Shepherd's confrontations with Japanese whaling vessels in the whale sanctuary off the coast of Antarctica. In 2008, the documentary-style TV series \"Whale Wars\" began filming these confrontations, bringing some light to both sides of the controversy. The same year, two Greenpeace protesters were arrested in Japan for their investigation of whale meat. \"The governments of Australia and New Zealand, which have responsibility for maritime rescue in the area where the whale hunt is usually conducted, have repeatedly urged both sides to tone their responses down.\"\n\nMore recently, the Australian government, as an anti-whaling member of the IWC, set a November 2010 deadline to stop Japanese whaling in the Southern Ocean or face an international legal challenge. However, the IWC's ban on commercial whaling is under debate and could be overturned by the end of 2010. In a compromise aimed at ending a deadlock between anti-whaling nations and whaling countries, such as Norway, Iceland, and Japan, the IWC would permit limited commercial hunting. The IWC proposal drew immediate criticism from environmentalists, who described it as \"disaster for whales.\"\n\nThere has been some resistance to subsistence hunting by the Sea Shepherd group. When the Makah people tried to revive their traditional hunt it was disrupted by Sea Shepherd's \"chase boats\". Greenpeace took a different position in stating that cultural revival of whaling by groups like the Makah is not the problem. Greenpeace opposes all commercial whaling, claiming that it is not sustainable. However, they state that they do not oppose subsistence whaling by indigenous peoples. They promote whale watching as an alternative economic activity to commercial whaling.\n\nThe following organizations have taken part in or supported anti-whaling activities.\n\n\nAnti-whaling action is a part of both environmental activism and marine conservation. Forms of expression may include but are not limited to protest as demonstration and direct action, outreach through media, and political maneuvering.\n\nOften the most visible expression of anti-whaling activism is through public demonstration of protest: nonviolent action by groups of people, ranging from simple display of public signage and banners to picketing, walking in a march, or meeting (rally) to hear speakers. Actions such as blockades and sit-ins may also be referred to as demonstrations, although these would normally be considered direct action.\n\nDirect action is activity undertaken by individuals, groups, or governments to achieve anti-whaling goals outside of normal social/political channels: nonviolent and violent activities which target persons, groups, or property deemed to be engaged in whaling, commercial or otherwise. Examples of nonviolent direct action include strikes, blockades, workplace occupations, sit-ins, and graffiti. Violent direct actions include sabotage, vandalism, and assault. Direct actions are sometimes a form of civil disobedience, but some (such as strikes) do not always violate criminal law.\n\nWhile protest often leads to publicity of anti-whaling activities, there are more direct ways to raise public awareness. Media activism uses media and communication technologies for social movement, and/or tries to change policies relating to media and communication. Websites, newsletters, calls to action, pamphlets, books, speaking tours, rallies and mass mailings are all examples of outreach efforts.\n\nOther more formal ways of affecting change are political campaigning, diplomacy, negotiation and arbitration, and lobbying are methods of influencing decisions made by the government (in groups or individually). This includes all attempts to influence legislators and officials, whether by other legislators, constituents, or organized groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "24501957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24501957", "title": "Buscarini and Others v San Marino", "text": "Buscarini and Others v San Marino\n\nBuscarini and Others v. San Marino (application No. 24645/94) was a case decided by the European Court of Human Rights in 1999.\n\nThe applicants, Cristoforo Buscarini and Emilio Della Balda, were elected to the General Grand Council (the parliament of the Republic of San Marino) in 1993. They requested permission from the Captains-Regent to take the oath required by the Elections Act without reference to any religious text. The Act referred to a decree of 27 June 1909, which laid down the wording of the oath to be taken by members of the parliament as follows: \"I, …, swear on the Holy Gospels [..]\". The applicants originally took the oath in writing, omitting the reference to Gospels. Their oath was considered invalid, and the applicants took the oath on the Gospels, maintaining their protest.\n\nIn 1997, the European Court of Human Rights concluded unanimously that there had been a violation of Article 9. Sammarinese government maintained that the reaffirmation of traditional values represented by the taking of the oath was necessary in order to maintain public order.\n\nThe Court concluded that \"requiring the applicants to take the oath on the Gospels was tantamount to requiring two elected representatives of the people to swear allegiance to a particular religion, a requirement which is not compatible with Article 9 of the Convention. As the ECtHR rightly stated in its report, it would be contradictory to make the exercise of a mandate intended to represent different views of society within Parliament subject to a prior declaration of commitment to a particular set of beliefs\" (Para. 39). The Court unanimously held that there was a violation of Article 9 of the ECHR (freedom of conscience).\n\n"}
{"id": "617070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=617070", "title": "Canadian nationality law", "text": "Canadian nationality law\n\nCanadian nationality law is promulgated by the Citizenship Act (R.S.C., 1985, c. C-29) since 1977. The Act determines who is, or is eligible to be, a citizen of Canada. The Act replaced the previous Canadian Citizenship Act (S.C. 1946, c. 15; cited after 1970 as R.S.C. 1970, c. C-19) in 1977 and has gone through four significant amendments, in 2007, 2009, 2015 and 2017.\n\nCanadian citizenship is typically obtained by birth in Canada on the principle of \"jus soli\", or birth abroad when at least one parent is a Canadian citizen or by adoption by at least one Canadian citizen under the rules of \"jus sanguinis\". It can also be granted to a permanent resident who has lived in Canada for a period of time through naturalization. Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC, formerly known as Citizenship and Immigration Canada, or CIC) is the department of the federal government responsible for citizenship-related matters, including confirmation, grant, renunciation and revocation of citizenship.\n\nOn 19 June 2017, the Act has been amended for a fourth time by the 42nd Canadian Parliament. A set of changes has already taken effect on that date, while the remaining provisions regarding naturalization came into force on 11 October 2017, and provisions regarding revocation of citizenship also came into force on 11 January 2018.\n\nAfter Canadian Confederation was achieved in 1867, the new Dominion's \"nationality law\" initially closely mirrored that of the United Kingdom and all Canadians were classified as British subjects. Section 91(25) of the British North America Act, 1867, passed by the British Parliament in London (now referred to as the Constitution Act, 1867), however, gave the Parliament of Canada authority over \"Naturalization and Aliens\". The Immigration Act, 1910, for example, created the status of \"Canadian citizen\". This distinguished those British subjects who were born, naturalized, or domiciled in Canada from those who were not, but was only applied for the purpose of determining whether someone was free of immigration controls. The Naturalization Act, 1914, increased the period of residence required to qualify for naturalization in Canada as a British subject from three years to five years. A separate additional status of \"Canadian national\" was created under the Canadian Nationals Act, 1921, in order that Canada could participate in international forces or military expeditions separately from Britain.\n\nCanadian independence from Britain was obtained incrementally between 1867 (confederation and Dominion status within the Empire) and 1982 (patriation of the Canadian constitution). In 1931, the Statute of Westminster provided that the United Kingdom would have no legislative authority over Dominions without the request and consent of that Dominion's government to have a British law become part of the law of the Dominion. The law also left the British North America Acts within the purview of the British parliament, because the federal government and the provinces could not agree on an amending formula for the Canadian constitution. (Similarly, the neighbouring Dominion of Newfoundland did not become independent because it never ratified the Statute.) When, in 1982, the British and Canadian parliaments produced the mutual Canada Act 1982 (UK) and Constitution Act 1982 (Canada), which included a constitutional amendment process, the UK ceased to have any legislative authority whatsoever over Canada.\n\nBy the 1930s and the outbreak of World War II, Canada's naturalization laws consisted of a hodgepodge of confusing acts, which still retained the term \"British subject\" as the nationality and citizenship of \"Canadian nationals\". This eventually conflicted with the nationalism that arose following the First and Second World Wars, and the accompanying desire to have the Dominion of Canada's sovereign status reflected in distinct national symbols (such as flags, anthem, seal, etc.). This, plus the muddled nature of existing nationality law, prompted the enactment of the Canadian Citizenship Act, 1946, which took effect on 1 January 1947. On that date, Canadian citizenship was conferred on British subjects who were born, naturalized or domiciled in Canada. Subsequently, on 1 April 1949, the Act was extended to Newfoundland, upon the former British Dominion joining the Canadian confederation as the province of Newfoundland.\n\nThe 1947 Act was substantially revised again on 15 February 1977, when the new Citizenship Act came into force. From that date, multiple citizenship became legal. However, those who had lost Canadian citizenship before that date did not automatically have it restored until 17 April 2009, when Bill C-37 became law. The 2009 act also limited the issuance of citizenship to children born outside Canada to Canadian ancestors (\"jus sanguinis\") to one generation abroad. Bill C-24 in 2015 further granted Canadian citizenship to British subjects with ties to Canada but who did not qualify for Canadian citizenship in 1947 (either because they had lost British subject status prior to 1947, or did not qualify for Canadian citizenship in 1947 and had not yet applied for naturalization).\n\nThere are four ways an individual can acquire Canadian citizenship: by birth on Canadian soil; by descent (being born to a Canadian parent); by grant (naturalization); and by adoption. Among them, only citizenship by birth is granted automatically with limited exceptions, while citizenship by descent or adoption is acquired automatically if the specified conditions have been met. Citizenship by grant, on the other hand, must be approved by the Minister of Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship.\n\nIn general, persons born in Canada on or after 1 January 1947 (or 1 April 1949 if born in Newfoundland and Labrador) automatically acquire Canadian citizenship at birth unless they fall into one of the exceptions listed below. Those born in Canada before 1947 automatically acquired Canadian citizenship either on 1 January 1947 (or 1 April 1949 for Newfoundland and Labrador residents) if they were British subjects on that day, or on 11 June 2015 if they had involuntarily lost their British subject status before that day.\n\nDespite being indigenous peoples in Canada, many First Nations peoples (legally known as Status Indians) and Inuit born before 1947 did not acquire Canadian citizenship until 1956, when only those who met the conditions were retroactively granted Canadian citizenship.\n\nUnder paragraph 3(1)(a) of the 1977 Act, any person who was born in Canada on or after 15 February 1977 acquires Canadian citizenship at birth. The Interpretation Act states that the term \"Canada\" not only includes Canadian soil, but also \"the internal waters\" and \"the territorial sea\" of Canada, with the term \"internal waters\" being defined as including \"the airspace above\". Hence, Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada considers all children who were born over Canadian airspace as Canadian citizens. In one 2008 case, a girl born to a Ugandan mother aboard a Northwest Airlines flight from Amsterdam to Boston was deemed a Canadian citizen because she was born over Canadian airspace.\n\nIn addition, the interpretation section of the Citizenship Act states that any person who was born on an aircraft registered in Canada, or a vessel registered in Canada, is considered to be born in Canada.\n\nThere are only three exceptions to this rule, which are listed below.\n\nSubsection 3(2) of the Act states that Canadian citizenship by birth in Canada is not granted to a child born in Canada if neither parent is a Canadian citizen or permanent resident, and either parent was recognized by Global Affairs Canada as employed by the following at the time of the child's birth:\n\n\nIn the Vavilov decision, the Federal Court of Appeal clarified that to qualify for one of the exceptions, the parent's status as an employee of a foreign government \"must\" be recognized first by Global Affairs Canada. The exceptions do not apply if the said parent is employed by a foreign state but never had that status recognized by the federal government.\n\nIn a high-profile 2015 case, Deepan Budlakoti, a stateless man born in Ottawa, Ontario, was declared not to be a Canadian citizen because his parents were employed as domestic staffs by the High Commissioner of India in Canada and their contracts, which came with recognized diplomatic statuses, legally ended two months after his birth, despite the fact that they started to work for a non-diplomat well before their contracts ended and before Budlakoti was born.\n\nUnder section 4 and 5 the 1947 Act, all persons who were born on Canadian soil or a ship registered in Canada on or after 1 January 1947 acquired Canadian citizenship at birth, while those who were born before 1 January 1947 on Canadian soil or Canadian ships acquired Canadian citizenship on 1 January 1947 if they had not yet lost their British subject status on that day. This Act was amended to include Newfoundland in 1949.\n\nBefore 1950, a loophole existed in a way that section 5 of the 1947 Act did not mention any exceptions to this rule for persons born after 1947, making persons born to diplomats between this period also Canadian citizens by birth. This loophole was closed in 1950 when the first amendments to the 1947 Act went into effect, which specified that the \"jus soli\" rule does not apply to children with a \"responsible parent\" (father if born in wedlock; mother if born out of wedlock or has custody of the child) who was not a permanent resident and who also was:\n\nHence, between 1950 and 1977, it was possible for children born to foreign diplomat fathers and Canadian mothers not to be Canadian citizens.\n\nAlthough the 1947 Act declared that British subjects who were born in Canada prior to 1947 acquired Canadian citizenship on 1 January 1947, First Nations and Inuit were left out of the 1947 Act because those who were born before 1 January 1947 were not British subjects. It was not until 1956 when the legal loophole was closed by amending the 1947 Act to include Status Indians under the Indian Act and Inuit who were born prior to 1947. To be eligible for Canadian citizenship, they must have had Canadian domicile on 1 January 1947 and must have had resided in Canada for over ten years on 1 January 1956. Those qualified were deemed to be Canadian citizens from 1 January 1947. In comparison, those born on or after 1 January 1947 acquired Canadian citizenship at birth on the same basis as any other person born in Canada.\n\nIn 2012, Citizenship and Immigration Minister Jason Kenney proposed to modify the \"jus soli\" birthright citizenship recognized in Canadian law as a means of discouraging birth tourism. The move had drawn criticism from experts who said that the proposal was based on overhyped popular beliefs and nonexistent data. As of 2016, however, Minister John McCallum said during an interview that there is no plan to end birthright citizenship.\n\nThe 2015 amendment (Bill C-24) of the 1977 Act, which went into effect on 11 June 2015, granted Canadian citizenship for the first time to people who were born in Canada before 1 January 1947 (or 1 April 1949 if born in Newfoundland and Labrador), ceased to be British subjects before that day, and never became Canadian citizens after 1947 (or 1949). Under the 1947 Act, these people were never considered to be Canadian citizens because they had lost their British subject status before the creation of Canadian citizenship. Persons who had voluntarily renounced British subject status or had their British subject status revoked are not included in the grant.\n\nWhether a person is a Canadian citizen by descent depends on the legislation at the time of birth. Generally speaking, any person who was born to a parent born or naturalized in Canada who has not actively renounced their Canadian citizenship is a Canadian citizen by descent (known as first generations born abroad), regardless of the time of birth. These persons either automatically acquired Canadian citizenship at birth, or on 17 April 2009 or 11 June 2015.\n\nCases for children of first generations born abroad (known as second and subsequent generations born abroad) are more complicated. For such persons, only those who were born on or before 16 April 2009 may be Canadian citizens.\n\nUnder Bill C-37 which went into force on 17 April 2009, every person born outside of Canada as the first generation born abroad (i.e., born to a Canadian parent who derives their citizenship from birth or naturalization in Canada) on or after 17 April 2009 is automatically a Canadian citizen by descent at birth. The Bill also granted Canadian citizenship, for the first time, to children of former Canadian citizens whose citizenship was restored on that day (which was every person who involuntarily lost Canadian citizenship under the 1947 Act). On 11 June 2015, Bill C-24 further granted Canadian citizenship by descent to children of British subjects who were born or naturalized in Canada but never had Canadian citizenship. The acquisition of citizenship under both bills is not retroactive to birth.\n\nChildren born abroad on or after 17 April 2009 to Canadian citizens by descent, and children born abroad to Canadian citizens by descent who acquired their citizenship \"en masse\" on 17 April 2009 or 11 June 2015 are subject to the first generation rule and hence are \"not\" Canadian citizens. They must go through the naturalization or adoption process to become Canadian citizens.\n\nThe exceptions to the first-generation rule are:\n\nAn Act to amend the Citizenship Act (S.C. 2008, c. 14) (previously Bill C-37) came into effect on 17 April 2009 and changed the rules for Canadian citizenship. Individuals born outside of Canada are Canadian citizens by descent only if one of their parents is a citizen of Canada either by having been born in Canada or by naturalization. The new law limits citizenship by descent to one generation born outside Canada.\n\nIn a scenario, the new rules would apply like this: A child is born in Brazil in 2005 (\"before\" the new rules came into effect) to a Canadian citizen father, who himself is a born abroad citizen by descent, and a Brazilian mother who is only a Permanent Resident of Canada. The child automatically becomes a Canadian citizen at birth. Another child born \"after\" 17 April 2009 in the same scenario would not be considered a Canadian citizen. The child is considered born past \"first generation limitation\" and the parents would have to sponsor the child to become a Permanent Resident. Once permanent residency is granted, a parent can apply for Canadian citizenship on behalf of the child under subsection 5(2) without the residency requirement.\n\nChildren born on or after 17 April 2009 as second and subsequent generations born abroad have no claim to Canadian citizenship other than naturalization or adoption. Before Bill C-6's passage on 19 June 2017, such children might be stateless if without claim to any other citizenship. In one case, a toddler who was born in Beijing out of wedlock to a Chinese mother and a Canadian father who acquired his citizenship by descent was left \"de facto\" stateless for 14 months until she was registered for Irish citizenship because of her Irish-born grandfather. Since 19 June 2017, parents of otherwise stateless children can apply for naturalization on the sole ground of being stateless without fulfilling any of the requirements for citizenship.\n\nBetween 15 February 1977 and 16 April 2009, a child of a Canadian citizen who was born abroad acquires Canadian citizenship automatically at birth, regardless of whether the parent was a Canadian citizen by descent. During this period, the parent must be a Canadian citizen at the time of their birth for them to be eligible for Canadian citizenship, hence those with a parent who involuntarily lost their citizenship under the 1947 Act were not considered as Canadian citizens.\n\nHowever, a Canadian citizen who was born outside Canada after the first generation between 15 February 1977 and 16 April 1981 is required to apply for retention of Canadian citizenship before their 28th birthday. Otherwise, their Canadian citizenship would be automatically lost.\n\nBetween 1947 and 1977, a person born to a Canadian citizen parent would only acquire Canadian citizenship if his or her birth was registered at a Canadian embassy, consulate or high commission. Canadian citizenship between this period could only be passed down by Canadian fathers when born in wedlock, or Canadian mothers when born out of wedlock. Although the 1947 Act had mandated that a child must be registered within two years from the date of the child's birth, the 1977 Act abolished the mandatory registration period so that eligible persons and their children born before 1977 could be registered at any age after 15 February 1977 up until 14 August 2004. This provision, known as delayed registration, was retroactive to birth, so children born to these citizens would automatically acquire Canadian citizenship by descent if born between the period of 15 February 1977 to 16 April 2009 and would have to apply for retention if falling under the retention rules (i.e., born between 1977 and 1981).\n\nAlthough married women were unable to pass down citizenship to their offspring under the 1947 Act, a provision in the 1977 Act (paragraph 5(2)(b)), before it was repealed on 17 April 2009, also allowed children born to Canadian mothers in wedlock before 1977 to apply for Canadian citizenship through a special grant before 14 August 2004. Unlike the delayed registration, the grant of citizenship under this provision was \"not\" retroactive to birth, and hence children born to such parents would \"not\" be Canadian citizens by descent if they were born before their parents' citizenship was granted, because the parents were not yet Canadian citizens at the time of their birth. The special grant was also available for children who were born to Canadian fathers out of wedlock between the period of 17 May and 14 August 2004. Those who were born after the parent's citizenship was granted also had to apply for retention if falling under the retention rules.\n\nThose who failed to register or apply for a grant before 14 August 2004 would see their citizenship granted on 17 April 2009 if they were the first generation born abroad. Unlike those registered for or granted citizenship before the 2004 deadline, however, their children will not be able to acquire Canadian citizenship by descent, regardless of the time of birth.\n\nA person may apply for Canadian citizenship by naturalization under section 5 of the Act if the outlined conditions are met. In certain cases, some or all of the requirements may be waived by the Minister.\n\nUnder subsection 5(1), a person of any age may apply for Canadian citizenship if he or she:\n\n\nIn addition, any applicant between the age of 18 and 54 must:\n\n\nSubsection 5(1) does not apply to minors with a Canadian citizen parent or guardian, who must follow subsection 5(2) which has fewer requirements.\n\nPrior to 2015's Bill C-24, the \"Strengthening Canadian Citizenship Act\", the requirement for time spent in Canada was 1095 days over four years including at least two as a permanent resident (time spent in Canada as a temporary resident could count as one year of residence at most). The language and knowledge requirement applied only to persons aged 18 to 54. Between 17 June 2015 and 11 October 2017, the physical residence period was prolonged to four out of six years, and applicants must spend more than 183 days in Canada each year for at least four years before the day they submit their application. Their time spent in Canada as a temporary resident or a protected person also did not count toward the residence period.\n\nApplications submitted before 11 October 2017 were subject to the longer physical residence requirement. However, knowledge and language requirements no longer apply to persons who were under 18 or over 54 at the time they signed their application, even when their applications were submitted before that date.\n\nThe age requirement and the requirement to declare the applicant's intention to reside in Canada or continue the service with the CAF has been repealed when Bill C-6 became law on 19 June 2017. Before this date, only those over 18 can apply for naturalization under subsection 5(1). Furthermore, the residence period was changed to three out of five years on 11 October 2017, and applicants are no longer required to reside in Canada for 183 days per year. Once again, time spent as a temporary resident or a protected person is allowed to count toward the period of permanent residence, and the language and knowledge tests no longer apply to persons under 18 or over 54.\n\nAll applicants are required to maintain the requirements for citizenship from the day they submit the applications to the day they take the oath.\n\nSince 19 June 2017, a minor under 18 can apply for citizenship individually under subsection 5(1) if they meet all requirements. In other circumstances, however, the minor child's parent or guardian can apply for Canadian citizenship on their behalf under subsection 5(2). Citizenship will be granted under subsection 5(2) if:\n\n\nThe parent who applies on the child's behalf does not have to be the one with Canadian citizenship. For example, a permanent resident child's non-citizen father can apply for citizenship on their behalf if the mother of the child is a Canadian citizen.\n\nThe period of residence requirement does not apply to those applying under subsection 5(2). Minors under 14 years old also do not need to take the oath of citizenship or attend a citizenship ceremony.\n\nApplicants who submitted their applications before 11 October 2017 are no longer required to meet language and knowledge requirements as they no longer apply to any person under 18 years of age.\n\nWhen Bill C-37 became law in 2009, a new provision, subsection 5(5), was also added to provide a path to citizenship for stateless children born to Canadian parents who acquired citizenship by descent. To qualify, the applicants must:\n\n\nUnlike subsections 5(1) and 5(2), subsection 5(5) does not require the applicant to hold permanent resident status to apply (as long as the residence requirement has been met). Additionally, they do not need to attend a ceremony or take the Oath of Citizenship. Other conditions, such as the income tax filing, also do not apply to them.\n\nAfter 19 June 2017, it is possible for such children to apply for a discretionary grant under subsection 5(4) on the sole ground of being stateless and bypass all requirements, although subsection 5(5) is left intact as a part of the Act.\n\nUnder subsection 5(3), the Minister may waive the following requirements on compassionate or humanitarian grounds:\n\n\nThe Minister may further waive the oath requirement for persons with disabilities.\n\nMoreover, under subsection 5(4), the Minister may grant citizenship to individuals who:\n\n\nSuch persons do not need to fulfill any of the requirements.\n\nAll applicants for naturalization aged 14 or over (except for those naturalizing under subsection 5(5) or those with the requirement waived by the minister) must attend a citizenship ceremony as the final stage of their application. After taken the Oath of Citizenship, they will be given a paper citizenship certificate as the legal proof of Canadian citizenship. Before February 2012, applicants would receive a wallet-sized citizenship card and a paper commemorative certificate, but only the citizenship card served as the conclusive proof of Canadian citizenship.\n\nPrior to 2007, there was no provision in the Act for adopted persons to become Canadian citizens without going through the process of immigration and naturalization. In May 2006 the federal government introduced draft legislation, Bill C-14: An Act to Amend the Citizenship Act (Adoption), which was designed to allow adopted children the right to apply for citizenship immediately after the adoption without having to become a permanent resident. This bill received Royal Assent on 22 June 2007.\n\nAfter the passage of the bill, a person who is adopted by a Canadian citizen is entitled to become a Canadian citizen under section 5.1 of the Citizenship Act if \n\nIn addition, for adoptees over 18 years old, evidence must be submitted to show that the adoptive parents and the adoptee have a \"genuine relationship between parent and child\" before the adoptee turned 18.\n\nFor Quebec adopters, the adoption must also be approved by the Government of Quebec.\n\nUnlike the execution of citizenship by descent provisions which automatically grants citizenship to first-generation born abroad, the exercise of adoption provisions is voluntary, and adoptees may become Canadian citizens either by immediately applying for Canadian citizenship under section 5.1 or through naturalization under section 5 after the adoptees become permanent residents.\n\nHowever, those adopted by one or both parents who derived their citizenship by descent or under the adoption provisions are not eligible for citizenship under section 5.1 and must apply for naturalization under section 5, unless the parent concerned, at the time of adoption,\n\nFurthermore, those who acquired citizenship under section 5.1 cannot pass down citizenship to their future offspring born outside Canada through \"jus sanguinis\", while an adoptee who acquired citizenship through naturalization may pass down citizenship to future children born abroad.\n\nAlthough not included in section 5.1, persons who were adopted before 1 January 1947 were also granted Canadian citizenship on 11 June 2015 if their adoptive parents can pass down citizenship by descent and they had never received Canadian citizenship.\n\nIn a 2013 case, the Federal Court ruled that a person applying under section 5.1 has an \"entitlement\" to Canadian citizenship if all criteria have been met, even when they are otherwise ineligible for citizenship under naturalization rules (e.g., criminal offences or outstanding deportation orders).\n\nThere is no longer a requirement to file for retention of Canadian citizenship before a person's 28th birthday after the repeal of section 8 of the Act on 17 April 2009.\n\nPrior to Bill C-37 entered into force, all Canadians who acquired their Canadian citizenship by descent through a Canadian parent who also acquired Canadian citizenship by descent (known as the second and subsequent generations born abroad) would automatically lose their Canadian citizenship on their 28th birthday under section 8 of the 1977 Act, unless they applied for retention of citizenship.\n\nRetention of citizenship would only be approved for applicants who had satisfied one of the following conditions:\n\n\nApplications would be considered by a citizenship judge and, if rejected, could be filed again after the applicant had met the requirements. Successful applicants would be issued a citizenship card and a certificate of retention, and both serve as the legal proof of citizenship.\n\nThis provision was formally repealed on 17 April 2009 when Bill C-37 came into effect, and those who attained 28 years of age on or after the date no longer has a requirement to retain citizenship. Thus, only those who were born between the period of 15 February 1977 (the day that the 1977 Act went into effect) and 16 April 1981 were required to retain citizenship and, if had not taken steps to do so, would lose their Canadian citizenship between 15 February 2005 and 16 April 2009. However, a child born to such parent would still be a Canadian citizen and no longer had to apply for retention, if he or she was born after 16 April 1981 but before 17 April 2009 and the parent had not formally lost Canadian citizenship at the time of the child's birth. The parent, nevertheless, would face the loss of citizenship if he or she had not successfully filed for retention.\n\nThe retention clause of the Act had negatively affected a number of people, many of whom were residing in Canada at the time when their citizenship was stripped. On 4 December 2016, the Vancouver Sun reported that some individuals who were subject to the automatic loss of citizenship had only discovered that they were no longer Canadian citizens while dealing with the federal government. These people would become \"de jure\" stateless if also holding no other nationalities or citizenship, and would also have no legal immigration status in Canada after the loss of citizenship. Accordingly, they must take steps to restore their Canadian citizenship under section 11 of the Act. It is worth noting that neither Bill C-37 nor Bill C-24 restored these persons' citizenship, and those affected must take voluntary action or may face legal consequences as illegal immigrants with respect to the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act.\n\nUnder section 6 the original 1947 Act in force until 1970, Canadian citizens by descent were required to renounce all foreign citizenship and make a declaration of retention after they attained 21 years of age. Failing to do so before their 22nd birthday would cause the loss of Canadian citizenship on that day.\n\nThis requirement was relaxed in 1970. Subsection 5(2) of the 1947 Act, as amended in 1970, specified that Canadian citizens by descent would not lose their Canadian citizenship until their 24th birthday, as opposed to their 22nd birthday under the original clause. Retention of citizenship would be granted to any person who had Canadian domicile on their 21st birthday or those who had submitted a declaration of retention of Canadian citizenship before their 24th birthday. The requirement for them to renounce their foreign citizenship under the original 1947 Act was also repealed.\n\nUnlike that of the 1977 Act which required the affected persons to make an application with the possibility of being refused, the 1947 Act's retention clauses merely required those affected to make a declaration. The clauses also did not make a distinction between the first-generation born abroad to Canada-born or naturalized parents, and second and subsequent generations born abroad. However, under Bill C-37, only those who were the first generation born abroad were able to have their Canadian citizenship restored, while second and subsequent generations born abroad remain foreign if they had failed to retain their Canadian citizenship under the 1947 Act.\n\nThe complete replacement of the 1947 Act in 1977 meant that only those who were born on or before 14 February 1953 were subject to the 1947 Act's retention rules. Those born between 15 February 1953 and 14 February 1977 were able to retain their Canadian citizenship without taking any actions.\n\nSince Bill C-37 came into force in 2009, there is no provision for involuntary loss of Canadian citizenship, except when in certain circumstances the Minister may revoke a person's citizenship.\n\nBetween 1947 and 1977, a number of Canadian citizens had involuntarily lost their citizenship under the 1947 Act, mostly by acquiring the nationality or citizenship of another country. These persons' citizenship have been restored en masse on 17 April 2009.\n\nUnder the 1977 Act, there were no automatic losses of Canadian citizenship until the period between 2005 and 2009 when some Canadians lost their citizenship due to their failure to file for retention of citizenship.\n\nWhile there now are no grounds for involuntary loss of citizenship, voluntary loss of citizenship, or renunciation, is permitted.\n\nThe term \"Lost Canadians\" are used to refer to persons who believed themselves to be Canadian citizens but have lost or never acquired Canadian citizenship due to the legal hurdles in the 1947 Act.\n\nUnder the 1947 Act, a person must be a British subject on 1 January 1947 for them to acquire Canadian citizenship. Hence certain persons who were born, naturalized or domiciled in Canada before the enactment of the 1947 Act were ineligible for Canadian citizenship, which included the following groups:\n\n\nAfter the enactment of the 1947 Act, Canadian citizenship could be automatically lost between 1 January 1947 and 14 February 1977, by the following acts:\n\n\nThe loss of British subject status or Canadian citizenship could occur even when the person was physically in Canada.\n\nCertain Canadian residents born before 1977, including but not limiting to war brides and persons who were born outside Canada to Canadian citizens (primarily those who were born to Canadian servicemen or in U.S. hospitals along the Canada–United States border who automatically acquired U.S. citizenship at birth), also do not possess Canadian citizenship, because it was not possible to automatically acquire Canadian citizenship between 1947 and 1977 without voluntarily applying for naturalization (for war brides) or registering at a Canadian mission (for children of Canadians). Some of those people have been living in Canada for their entire lives with little knowledge of their lack of Canadian citizenship. To solve this problem, the federal government had undertaken several legislative processes to reduce and eliminate these cases.\n\nThe problem first arose in February 2007, when the House of Commons Standing Committee on Citizenship and Immigration held hearings on so-called Lost Canadians, who found out on applying for passports that, for various reasons, they may not be Canadian citizens as they thought. Don Chapman, a witness before the committee, estimated that 700,000 Canadians had either lost their citizenship or were at risk of having it stripped. However, Citizenship and Immigration Minister Diane Finley said her office had just 881 calls on the subject. On 19 February 2007, she granted citizenship to 33 such individuals. Some of the people affected reside in towns near the border, and hence were born in American hospitals. Others, particularly Mennonites, were born to Canadian parents outside Canada. An investigation by the CBC, based on Canadian census data, concluded that the problem could affect an estimated 10,000 to 20,000 individuals residing in Canada at the time.\n\nOn 29 May 2007, Canadian Minister of Citizenship and Immigration Diane Finley announced her proposal to amend the 1977 Act for the first time. Under the proposal, which eventually became Bill C-37, anyone naturalized in Canada since 1947 would have citizenship even if they lost it under the 1947 Act. Also, anyone born since 1947 outside the country to a Canadian mother or father, in or out of wedlock, would have citizenship if they are the first generation born abroad. Appearing before the Standing Committee on Citizenship and Immigration, Finley asserted that as of 24 May 2007, there were only 285 cases of individuals in Canada whose citizenship status needs to be resolved. As persons born prior to 1947 were not covered by Bill C-37, they would have to apply for special naturalization before Bill C-24's passage in 2015.\n\nUnder Bill C-37 and Bill C-24 which went into effect on 17 April 2009 and 11 June 2015, respectively, Canadian citizenship was restored or granted for those who have involuntarily lost their Canadian citizenship under the 1947 Act or British subject status before 1947, as well as their children.\n\nThe aftermath of the 1947 Act continues to affect people today. In July 2017, Larissa Waters, an Australian Senator born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, was disqualified on the ground that she has dual Canadian and Australian citizenship. Section 44 of the Australian Constitution was frequently interpreted by Australian courts as a ban on the ability to run for political office by persons with multiple citizenship. Waters, who was born to Australian parents a week before the 1977 Act went into effect, claimed that she was unaware of the changes in Canadian legislation and was also misinformed by her parents, who told her that she would cease to be a Canadian when she turns 21. However, her claim runs afoul with nationality laws of both countries.\n\nUnder section 10 the Act, the Minister has the power to initiate proceedings to revoke a person's Canadian citizenship or renunciation of citizenship.\n\nUnder subsection 10(1) of the Act, the Minister may initiate proceedings to revoke a person's citizenship or nullify the person's renunciation of citizenship if they are satisfied that the person has obtained, retained, renounced or resumed citizenship by:\n\n\nRevocation of citizenship under subsection 10(1) applies typically to naturalized Canadians. However, it may also be applied to those who had retained their citizenship. Persons whose citizenship was revoked may become stateless if they do not have citizenship or nationality of another country at the time of the final decision.\n\nSince 11 January 2018, all revocation cases must be decided by the Federal Court unless the person in question explicitly requests the Minister to make the final decision. Otherwise, the Minister no longer has the authority to unilaterally revoke a person's citizenship without going through court proceedings.\n\nAfter revocation, a person's status in Canada may be a Canadian citizen (for those who renounced their citizenship with fraud), a permanent resident (for those who restored or acquired citizenship with fraud), or a foreign national with no status in Canada (for other revocations). Those who become foreign nationals will be subject to deportation, while those with permanent resident status may be issued deportation orders by federal courts on the grounds of security, human rights violations, or organized crime.\n\nBefore 2015, revocation only applied to naturalized citizens, and the Governor in Council must be notified about the revocation without exception.\n\nBetween 2015 and 2017, the revocation of citizenship became streamlined. More powers were vested in the Department and the Minister, who could unilaterally revoke a person's citizenship without involving the Governor in Council. After the change of procedure, the number of revocation nearly tenfolded when comparing to 2014.\n\nBefore 19 June 2017, subsection 10(2), as amended in 2014 by Bill C-24, added provisions when the Minister could revoke a person's citizenship, including but not limited to:\n\n\nRevocations under subsection 10(2) only applied to those with citizenship or nationality in another country.\n\nThe subsection has been formally repealed on that day when Bill C-6 received Royal Assent. Zakaria Amara, a dual Jordanian-Canadian citizen whose Canadian citizenship was revoked in 2015 because of his involvement in the 2006 Ontario terrorism plot, has had his citizenship reinstated when Bill C-6 became law. Amara remains the only person whose citizenship was revoked under subsection 10(2) before it was repealed.\n\nBetween 10 July 2017 and 10 January 2018, all revocation clauses in the Act were deemed inoperable until the amendments of the Act took effect on 11 January 2018. This was because that in May 2017, the Federal Court ruled in Hassouna v. Canada (Citizenship and Immigration) that subsections 10(1), 10(3) and 10(4) violated the Canadian Bill of Rights in a way that they deprived a person's right to a fair hearing. After the suspension of the ruling had lapsed on 10 July 2017, no subsection under section 10 was enforceable until the 2017 amendments to the Act came into effect. On the same day, a federal judge had nullified the citizenship revocation of 312 people.\n\nThe last part of Bill C-6, which is scheduled to take effect in 2018, includes the following changes:\n\nA Canadian citizen who wishes to voluntarily renounce his or her citizenship for any reason must make an application directly to the federal government, and he or she ceases to be a Canadian citizen only after the federal government has approved such request. Renouncing Canadian citizenship to a foreign government (such as by taking the Oath of Allegiance to the United States) is not sufficient in itself to be considered as a voluntary renunciation of Canadian citizenship.\n\nIn general, there are two forms of renunciations: subsection 9(1) of the Act, for all renunciations, and section 7.1 of the Citizenship Regulations, for persons who acquired citizenship in 2009 and 2015 due to the changes of law.\n\nAll renunciations are subject to approval by the Governor in Council, who has the power to refuse an application on national security grounds.\n\nUnder subsection 9(1), a person renouncing citizenship must:\n\n\nThe person may be required to attend an interview.\n\nIn some cases, the Minister may waive the residence and implication understanding requirements. However, a person may not renounce his or her citizenship when the revocation of citizenship is in action.\n\nSection 7.1 of the Regulations provides a simpler way for those whose citizenship was restored in 2009 and 2015 to renounce their citizenship. To qualify, the applicant must have acquired or reacquired his or her citizenship under the 2009 and 2015 amendments, and:\n\n\nThe implication understanding requirement can also be waived by the Minister.\n\nPersons renouncing under section 7.1 do not need to attend an interview, and there is no fee for renunciation.\n\nUnder subsection 11(1) of the Act, a former Canadian citizen who voluntarily renounced his or her citizenship under Canadian law is generally required to satisfy a number of conditions before he or she can resume Canadian citizenship. The conditions are:\n\n\nThe income taxes and residence intention requirements were added on 11 June 2015 when Bill C-24 became law. The residence intention requirement, however, was repealed on 19 June 2017 when Bill C-6 received Royal Assent.\n\nFormer citizens who lost their citizenship by revocation are not eligible to resume their citizenship. They must follow naturalization procedures if not permanently prohibited from doing so.\n\nOn 17 April 2009, Bill C-37 resumed Canadian citizenship to all of those who have obtained Canadian citizenship on or after 1 January 1947 by birth or naturalization in Canada but have involuntarily lost it under the 1947 Act, and their first generation descendants born abroad were also granted Canadian citizenship on that day.\n\nOn 11 June 2015, Bill C-24 further granted citizenship for the first time to those who were born or naturalized in Canada but had lost British subject status before 1947 and their first generation descendants born abroad.\n\nOn 22 September 1988, Prime Minister Brian Mulroney agreed to a redress package for Japanese-Canadians deported from Canada between 1941 and 1946 (about 4,000 in total) and their descendants. The package authorized a special grant of Canadian citizenship for any such person. All descendants of deported persons were also eligible for the grant of citizenship provided that they were living on 22 September 1988, regardless of whether the person deported from Canada was still alive.\n\nAlthough Bill C-24 covered the majority of ex-British subjects who would have acquired citizenship in 1947, a certain number of female ex-British subjects were excluded from the Bill, mainly those born in another part of the British Empire other than Canada, had been residing in Canada long enough to qualify for citizenship under the 1947 Act, but had lost their British subject status either by marrying a foreign man before 1947, or losing British subject status when her spouse naturalized in another country. These people can acquire Canadian citizenship under subsection 11(2) of the 1977 Act by a simple declaration made to the IRCC. There are no additional requirements other than the declaration.\n\nThe attitude toward multiple citizenship in Canada has changed significantly over time. Between 1 January 1947 and 14 February 1977, multiple citizenship was only allowed under limited circumstances. On 15 February 1977, the restrictions on multiple citizenship disappeared overnight.\n\nThe number of Canadians with multiple citizenship is difficult to determine because of the changes in Canadian and foreign laws. In 2006, around 863,000 Canadian citizens residing in Canada reported in census to hold at least one more citizenship or nationality of another country. The actual figure, however, is substantially higher, as the federal government does not maintain statistics on persons with multiple citizenship who reside abroad. The \"en masse\" citizenship grant and restoration in 2009 and 2015 further increased the number of Canadians with multiple citizenship, as Canadian citizenship was restored or granted to most of the people who lost their Canadian citizenship or British subject status by acquiring citizenship of another country. These people, as well as their descendants, are \"de jure\" Canadians with multiple citizenship even when they do not exercise citizenship rights (e.g., travelling on a Canadian passport).\n\nAlthough not a legal requirement, Canadian citizens with multiple citizenship are required to carry a Canadian passport when boarding their flights to Canada since November 2016 unless they are dual Canadian-American citizens carrying a valid United States passport. This is caused by the amended visa policy, which imposed a pre-screening requirement on visa-exempt nationalities. Those entering Canada by land or sea are not subject to this restriction.\n\nThe 1977 Act removed all restrictions on multiple citizenship and Canadian citizens acquiring another citizenship on or after 15 February 1977 would no longer lose their Canadian citizenship.\n\nThose who lost their Canadian citizenship or British subject status under the 1947 Act or the British 1914 Act regained or gained Canadian citizenship in 2009 and 2015, respectively. The grant and resumption under Bill C-37 and Bill C-24 included these people's children.\n\nAlthough multiple citizenship was severely restricted under the 1947 Act, it was still possible to be a citizen of Canada and another country so long as the acquisition of the other citizenship or nationality is involuntary. A person may involuntarily acquire citizenship of another country when:\n\n\nLike peoples of all other British colonies and Dominions at the time, those born in Canada before 1947 were British subjects by nationality under the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914. The term \"Canadian citizen\", however, was first created under the Immigration Act 1910 to identify a British subject who was born in Canada or who possessed Canadian domicile, which could be acquired by any British subject who had lawfully resided in Canada for at least three years. At that time, \"Canadian citizenship\" was solely an immigration term and not a nationality term, hence \"Canadian citizens\" under the Immigration Act would be subject to the same rules on acquisition and loss of British subject status under the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914. Under the Immigration Act 1910, \"Canadian citizenship\" would be lost for any person who had ceased to be a British subject, as well as non-Canadian born or naturalized British subjects who \"voluntarily [reside] outside Canada\". While the former would lose \"Canadian citizenship\" and British subject status simultaneously, the latter would only stop being a \"Canadian citizen\". Canadian-born or naturalized British subjects would not lose their Canadian domicile by residing outside Canada.\n\nThe only circumstance in which a British subject could acquire \"de jure\" dual citizenship was by birth to a British subject father in a country which offered birthright citizenship (e.g., the United States). However, \"Canadian citizens\" may acquire \"de facto\" dual citizenship by residing in another British Dominion, protectorate, or colony, as they would simultaneously have \"Canadian citizenship\" and, if residing long enough to meet the requirements, the domicile of that Dominion, protectorate, or colony.\n\nTo further separate British subjects domiciled in Canada from other British subjects, the term \"Canadian National\" was created by the Canadian Nationals Act 1921 on 3 May of that year. The status was bestowed on all holders of \"Canadian citizenship\" and their wives, but also included all children born outside Canada to Canadian National fathers, regardless of whether possessing British subject status at the time of birth. This 1921 Act also provided a path for certain Canadian Nationals who were born outside Canada, or who were born in Canada but had the domicile of the United Kingdom or another Dominion at birth or as a minor, to relinquish their Canadian Nationality and domicile. Before the passage of the 1921 Act, \"Canadian citizens\" who were born in Canada had no course to abandon their Canadian domicile without having to relinquish their British subject status altogether. As Canadian Nationality was also independent of their British subject status, the renunciation under the 1921 Act would not affect their British subject status, although they would also not become Canadian citizens on 1 January 1947 when it was first created.\n\nThough she resides predominantly in the United Kingdom and it is uncertain whether a monarch is subject to his or her own citizenship laws, the Queen of Canada is considered Canadian. She and those others in the Royal Family who do not meet the requirements of Canadian citizenship (there are five Canadian citizens within the Royal Family) are not classified by either the government or some constitutional experts as foreigners to Canada; in the Canadian context, members of the Royal Family are subjects specifically of the monarch of Canada. Members of the Royal Family have also, on occasion, declared themselves to be Canadian and called Canada \"home\".\n\nThere have been a number of court decisions dealing with the subject of Canadian citizenship. In particular, the interpretation of the 3-year (1,095-day) residence requirement enacted by the 1977 \"Citizenship Act\", which does not define the term \"residence\" and, further, prohibits an appeal of a Federal Court decision in a citizenship matter to the Federal Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court, has \"led to a great deal of mischief and agony\" and generated considerable judicial controversy.\n\nOver the years two principal schools of thought with respect to residence have emerged from the Federal Court.\n\nEarly on, in 1978, Associate Chief Justice Arthur L. Thurlow in \"Papadogiorgakis (Re)\", [1978] 2 F.C. 208, opined that residency entails more than a mere counting of days. He held that residency is a matter of the degree to which a person, in mind or fact, settles into or maintains or centralizes his or her ordinary mode of living, including social relations, interests and conveniences. The question becomes whether an applicant's linkages suggest that Canada is his or her home, regardless of any absences from the country.\n\nIn \"Re Koo\", Justice Barbara Reed further elaborated that in residency cases the question before the Court is whether Canada is the country in which an applicant has centralized his or her mode of existence. Resolving such a question involves consideration of several factors:\n\nThe general principle is that the quality of residence in Canada must be more substantial than elsewhere.\n\nIn contrast, a line of jurisprudence flowing from the decision in \"Re Pourghasemi (1993)\", 62 F.T.R. 122, 19 Imm. L.R. (2d) 259, emphasized how important it is for a potential new citizen to be immersed in Canadian society and that a person cannot reside in a place where the person is not physically present. Thus, it is necessary for a potential citizen to establish that he or she has been physically present in Canada for the requisite period of time.\n\nIn the words of Justice Francis Muldoon:\n\nThe co-existence of such disparate, yet equally valid approaches has led some judges to comment that the citizenship \"law is in a sorry state\", that \"there cannot be two correct interpretations of a statute\", that \"it does not engender confidence in the system for conferring citizenship if an applicant is, in the course of a single application, subjected to different legal tests because of the differing legal views of the Citizenship Court\", that there's a \"scandalous incertitude in the law\", and that \"there is no doubt that a review of the citizenship decisions of this Court, on that issue, demonstrates that the process of gaining citizenship in such circumstances is akin to a lottery\".\n\nIn 2010 it seemed that a relative judicial consensus with respect to decision-making in residence cases might emerge. In several Federal Court decisions it was held that the citizenship judge must apply a hybrid two-test approach by firstly ascertaining whether, on the balance of probabilities, the applicant has accumulated 1,095 days of physical presence. If so, the residency requirement is considered to have been met. If not, then the judge must additionally assess the application under the \"centralized mode of existence\" approach, guided by the non-exhaustive factors set out in \"Koo (Re)\".\n\nHowever, most recently, this compromise formula was rejected by Federal Court judges, who continued to plead for legislative intervention as the means to settle the residency requirement debacle.\n\nA few of the other major decisions are:\n\nComparing to permanent residents, Canadian citizens have additional rights, including but not limited to:\n\nIn addition, only Canadian citizens may petition to receive a grant of armorial bearings.\n\nCanadian citizens, however, have the responsibility to complete jury duty when called to do so, and failure to respond or appear may come with legal consequences. Permanent residents, on the other hand, are legally ineligible to serve as jurors and hence are not required to do so.\n\nUnder current rules, the federal government has designated a number of documents as proof of citizenship:\n\n\nAmong these documents, only the certificate of citizenship is still being issued by the federal government. The certificate is automatically issued to an individual who has become a Canadian citizen through naturalization, but can also be issued to any Canadian upon request. If requested, a certificate is only issued after a complete investigation on whether the individual possesses Canadian citizenship under the current or historical legislation. The certificate replaced the wallet-sized citizenship card on 1 February 2012 and can be verified electronically, but unlike the citizenship card, it can no longer be used as an identification document as it does not contain a photo. The citizenship card was originally issued between 1954 and 1977 as a supplement of the larger certificate before the 1977 Act. Between 1977 and 2012, it was the only valid proof of Canadian citizenship for those who acquired citizenship through naturalization or by descent.\n\nAs those who were born in Canada normally acquired citizenship at birth under both 1947 and 1977 Acts, birth certificates issued by the provincial or territorial government are usually considered by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada as adequate proof of citizenship. There are, however, complications when the person failed to acquire Canadian citizenship because of the exceptions listed under subsection 3(2) of the Act. As the federal government does not keep records of the immigration statuses of parents at birth, a person may be recognized as a Canadian-based solely on his or her birth within Canada when, in fact, he or she does not possess Canadian citizenship under subsection 3(2). Deepan Budlakoti, a stateless man born in Ontario, was twice issued a valid Canadian passport based on his Ontario birth certificate before the federal government realized that he is not a Canadian citizen under subsection 3(2) and revoked his Canadian passport.\n\nDocuments other than those listed above, including Canadian passports, are not considered as proof of citizenship, but a passport is issued only after review of other documentary proof, as noted above. Church-issued baptismal certificates and birth certificates issued by an authority other than a provincial or territorial government are also not proof of Canadian citizenship. Such certificates were common in Quebec, as the provincial government did not start to issue birth certificates until 1994.\n\nA special birth certificate issued by the Department of National Defence to children of CAF members born abroad before 1979, known as DND 419, is not a proof of citizenship due to the lack of legal status of the certificate. This has caused difficulties for some individuals as they were forced to apply for a certificate of citizenship to confirm their status and to apply for a passport.\n\nVisa requirements for Canadian citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Canada. According to the 2016 Visa Restrictions Index, holders of a Canadian passport can visit 172 countries and territories visa-free or with visa on arrival, and the score of Canada is currently ranked 6th in terms of travel freedom.\n\nAlthough section 32 and 33 the 1977 Act recognizes citizens of other Commonwealth countries as Commonwealth citizens, no special privileges over other foreign nationals are accorded on them. Hence, a Commonwealth citizen without permanent resident status or Canadian citizenship is treated like any other foreign national in Canada.\n\nOther Commonwealth countries recognize Canadian citizens as Commonwealth citizens, though the significance of this designation varies from one member state to another. For example, Canadians may be entitled to certain rights or privileges offered by the United Kingdom under British law, including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2575978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2575978", "title": "Cities of Refuge", "text": "Cities of Refuge\n\nThe Cities of Refuge were six Levitical towns in the Kingdom of Israel and the Kingdom of Judah in which the perpetrators of accidental manslaughter could claim the right of asylum. Maimonides, invoking talmudic literature, expands the city of refuge count to all 48 Levitical cities.\nOutside of these cities, blood vengeance against such perpetrators was allowed by law. The Bible names the six cities as being cities of refuge: Golan, Ramoth, and Bosor, on the east of the Jordan River, and Kedesh, Shechem, and Hebron on the western side.\n\nIn the Priestly Code, the regulations concerning the cities of refuge state that, once he had claimed asylum, a perpetrator had to be taken from the city and put on trial; if the trial found that the perpetrator was innocent of murder, then the perpetrator had to be returned under guard (for their own protection) to the city in which they had claimed asylum. This law code treats blood money as an unacceptable device that would compound the crime, insisting that atonement can only be made by blood.\n\nThe Priestly Code states that no harm was allowed to come to the perpetrator once the Jewish high priest had died, at which point the perpetrator was free to leave the city without fear; the Mishnah states that the high priest's mother would traditionally supply clothing and food to those claiming asylum in the cities of refuge, so that these individuals would not wish for the death of her son. The Talmud argues that the death of the high priest formed an atonement, as the death of pious individuals counted as an atonement, and in its view, the high priest was extremely pious; Maimonides argued that the death of the high priest was simply an event so upsetting to the Israelites that they dropped all thoughts of vengeance.\n\nThe Deuteronomic Code prescribed that three cities be set aside to provide refuge on a regional basis, with three additional cities to be set aside 'if the Lord your God enlarges your territory'. These were not the three cities of refuge east of the Jordan, already established according to , but a further three, potentially nine in total. Albert Barnes stated that the additional three cities allowed for \"the anticipated enlargement of the borders of Israel to the utmost limits promised by God, from the river of Egypt to the Euphrates\" () and the King James Version refers in to the enlargement of the \"coast\" of the promised land.\n\nThe Deuteronomic regulations are presented in a different manner from in the Priestly Code and, rather than describing the perpetrator being put on trial, merely state that if the perpetrator is guilty of murder, the elders of the town in which the crime was committed should demand the perpetrator's return and hand him over without pity to the avenger of blood to be killed. The Deuteronomic Code does not give any role to the high priest or mention the terms on which the perpetrator could return home, but does state that roads should be built to the cities of refuge to ease the escape of the perpetrator to them; the Talmud states that, in accordance with the requirement to especially build roads to the cities of refuge, the roads to these cities were not only marked by signposts saying \"Refuge\", but the roads were 32 ells wide—twice the regulation width—and were particularly smooth and even, in order that fugitives were as unhindered as possible.\n\nA chapter in the Book of Joshua also reiterates the regulations for the cities of refuge, adding that when a perpetrator arrives at the city, he had to disclose the events that had occurred to the city elders, after which they had to find him a place to live within the city. Textual scholars regard the chapter as being an insertion by the deuteronomist, and, even in the Talmud, it is argued that the chapter had been moved and was originally part of the Torah as an aspect of the Deuteronomic Code; though the masoretic text for this chapter includes a role for the death of the high priest, the Septuagint's version of the chapter does not mention it.\n\nIn many ancient cultures, the inviolability of deities was considered to extend to their religious sanctuaries and all that resided within, whether criminals, debtors, escaped slaves, priests, ordinary people, or, in some cases, passing cattle; biblical scholars suspect that Israelite culture was originally no different. In general, the area covered by these rights of sanctuary varied from a small area around the altar or other centrepiece to a large area beyond the limits of the town containing the sanctuary (the limits often being marked in some way), depending on the significance of the deity and the importance of the sanctuary; it was considered a greater crime to drag an individual from the sanctuary or to kill them there than it was to defile the sanctuary itself.\n\nBiblical scholars perceive this simple right of asylum at sanctuaries as being presented by the Covenant Code, which textual scholars attribute to the 8th century BC. Biblical scholars also believe that this right was the context underlying the account in the Books of Kings of Joab and Adonijah each fleeing from Solomon to an altar, with their opponents being unwilling to attack them while they remained there; textual scholars regard these passages as being part of the Court History of David, which they date to the 9th century BC, or earlier.\n\nOver time, these general rights of asylum were gradually curtailed, as some sanctuaries had become notorious hotbeds of crime; in Athens, for example, the regulations were changed so that slaves were only permitted to escape to the sanctuary of the temple of Theseus. This is considered by scholars to be the reason that, in Israelite culture, the rights were restricted to just six locations by the time the Priestly Code was compiled—the late 7th century according to textual scholars—and it is thus regarded by biblical scholars as being no coincidence that the three cities of refuge to the west of the Jordan were also important ancient religious sanctuaries; little is known about the cities of refuge to the east of the Jordan (as of 1901), but scholars consider it reasonable to assume that they were once also important sanctuaries.\n\nThe Deuteronomic Code is regarded by textual scholars as dating from the reign of Josiah, which postdates the fall of the Kingdom of Israel to the Assyrians; this is considered to be the reason that only three (unnamed) cities of refuge are mentioned in the Deuteronomic Code, with a further three only being added if the Israelite territory was expanded, as by the time of Josiah's reign, the cities east of the Jordan were no longer controlled by the Israelites. The lack of importance given by the Deuteronomic Code to the identity of the cities of refuge is considered by scholars to be an attempt to continue the right of asylum, even though the sanctuaries (apart from the Temple in Jerusalem) had been abolished by Josiah's reforms.\n\nThe classical rabbinical writers regarded all the cities controlled by the Levites as being cities of refuge, although they considered that asylum could only be claimed against the will of a city's inhabitants if the city was one of the six main cities of refuge. Although there the six main \"cities of refuge\" were named in the Priestly Code, the Talmudic sources argued that other cities could, over time, be officially substituted for these six, to take account of changing political circumstances. The substitute cities of refuge were constrained to be only of moderate size, since, if they were too small, there could be scarcity of food, forcing the refugee to imperil himself by leaving the city to find sustenance, and, if they were too large, then it would be too easy for an avenger of blood to hide in the crowds; nevertheless, the surrounding region was required to be quite populous since that way, an attack by the avenger of blood could be more easily repelled. The altar of the Temple in Jerusalem also came to be regarded as a place of sanctuary, but only counted for the officiating priest, and even then only temporarily, as the priest ultimately had to be taken to a city of refuge; when Jerusalem was under Seleucid control, Demetrius I offered to turn the Temple into an official place of sanctuary, though the offer was turned down.\n\nThe rabbinical sources differentiated between four forms of killing, sometimes giving examples:\n\nAccording to classical rabbinical authorities, the cities of refuge were not places of protection, but places where atonement was made; Philo explained this principle as being based on the theory that an innocent man would never be chosen by God as the instrument of another man's death, and therefore those claiming refuge at these cities must have committed some sin before they had killed, for which their exile acts as an atonement. Thus, these rabbinical authorities argued that if the perpetrator had died before reaching a city of refuge, their body still had to be taken there, and, if they had died before the high priest had, then their body had to be buried at the city of refuge until the high priest expired; even if the perpetrator lived beyond the death of the high priest, the rabbinical authorities forbade them from holding political office. Furthermore, since it was to be a place of atonement, the rabbinical authorities required that the perpetrator should always contemplate the fact that they had killed someone and should refuse any honour that the denizens of the city might grant them from time to time, unless the denizens persisted.\n\n"}
{"id": "19060778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19060778", "title": "Clean Air Act (United States)", "text": "Clean Air Act (United States)\n\nThe Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. § 7401) is a United States federal law designed to control air pollution on a national level. It is one of the United States' first and most influential modern environmental laws, and one of the most comprehensive air quality laws in the world. As with many other major U.S. federal environmental statutes, it is administered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), in coordination with state, local, and tribal governments. Its implementing regulations are codified at 40 C.F.R. Sub-chapter C, Parts 50-97.\n\nThe 1955 Air Pollution Control Act was the first U.S. federal legislation that pertained to air pollution; it also provided funds for federal government research of air pollution. The first federal legislation to actually pertain to \"controlling\" air pollution was the Clean Air Act of 1963. The 1963 act accomplished this by establishing a federal program within the U.S. Public Health Service and authorizing research into techniques for monitoring and controlling air pollution. \n\nIt was first amended in 1965, by the Motor Vehicle Air Pollution Control Act, which authorized the federal government to set required standards for controlling the emission of pollutants from certain automobiles, beginning with the 1968 models. A second amendment, the Air Quality Act of 1967, enabled the federal government to increase its activities to investigate enforcing interstate air pollution transport, and, for the first time, to perform far-reaching ambient monitoring studies and stationary source inspections. The 1967 act also authorized expanded studies of air pollutant emission inventories, ambient monitoring techniques, and control techniques. While only six states had air pollution programs in 1960, all 50 states had air pollution programs by 1970 due to the federal funding and legislation of the 1960s. Amendments approved in 1970 greatly expanded the federal mandate, requiring comprehensive federal and state regulations for both stationary (industrial) pollution sources and mobile sources. It also significantly expanded federal enforcement. Also, EPA was established on December 2, 1970 for the purpose of consolidating pertinent federal research, monitoring, standard-setting and enforcement activities into one agency that ensures environmental protection.\n\nFurther amendments were made in 1990 to address the problems of acid rain, ozone depletion, and toxic air pollution, and to establish a national permit program for stationary sources, and increased enforcement authority. The amendments also established new auto gasoline reformulation requirements, set Reid vapor pressure (RVP) standards to control Evaporative emissions from gasoline, and mandated new gasoline formulations sold from May to September in many states. Reviewing his tenure as EPA Administrator under President George H. W. Bush, William K. Reilly characterized passage of the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act as his most notable accomplishment.\n\nThe Clean Air Act was the first major environmental law in the United States to include a provision for citizen suits. Numerous state and local governments have enacted similar legislation, either implementing federal programs or filling in locally important gaps in federal programs.\n\nThis section of the act declares that protecting and enhancing the nation's air quality promotes public health. The law encourages to prevent regional air pollution and control programs. It also provides technical and financial assistance for preventing air pollution at both state and local governments. Additional sub chapters cover cooperation, research, investigation, training, and other activities. Grants for air pollution planning and control programs, and interstate air quality agencies and program cost limitations are also included in this section.\n\nThe act even mandates air quality control regions, designated as attainment vs non-attainment. Non-attainment areas do not meet national standards for primary or secondary ambient air quality. Attainment areas meet these standards, while unclassified areas cannot be classified based on the available information.\n\nAir quality criteria, national primary and secondary ambient air quality standards, state implementation plans and performance standards for new stationary sources are covered in Part A as well. The list of hazardous air pollutants that the act establishes includes compounds of Acetaldehyde, benzene, chloroform, Phenol, and selenium. The list also includes mineral fiber emissions from manufacturing or processing glass, rock or slag fibers as well as radioactive atoms. The list can periodically be modified. The act lists unregulated radioactive pollutants such as cadmium, arsenic, and poly cyclic organic matter and it mandates listing them if they will cause or contribute to air pollution that endangers public health, under section 7408 or 7412.\n\nThe remaining sub-chapters cover smokestack heights, state plan adequacy, and estimating emissions of carbon monoxide, volatile organic compounds, and oxides of nitrogen from area and mobile sources. Measures to prevent unemployment or other economic disruption include using local coal or coal derivatives to comply with implementation requirements. The final sub chapter in this act focuses on land use authority.\n\nBecause of advances in the atmospheric chemistry, this section was replaced by Title VI when the law was amended in 1990.\n\nThis change in the law reflected significant changes in scientific understanding of ozone formation and depletion. Ozone absorbs UVC light and shorter wave UVB, and lets through UVA, which is largely harmless to people. Ozone exists naturally in the stratosphere, not the troposphere. It is laterally distributed because it is destroyed by strong sunlight, so there is more ozone at the poles. Ozone is created when O comes in contact with photons from solar radiation. Therefore, a decrease in the intensity of solar radiation also results in a decrease in the formation of ozone in the stratosphere. This exchange is known as the Chapman mechanism:\n\nAtmospheric freon and chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) contribute to ozone depletion (Chlorine is a catalytic agent in ozone destruction). Following discovery of the ozone hole in 1985, the 1987 Montreal Protocol successfully implemented a plan to replace CFCs and was viewed by some environmentalists as an example of what is possible for the future of environmental issues, if the political will is present.\n\nThe Clean Air Act requires permits to build or add to major stationary sources of air pollution. This permitting process, known as New Source Review (NSR), applies to sources in areas that meet air quality standards as well as areas that are unclassified. Permits in attainment or unclassified areas are referred to as Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) permits, while permits for sources located in nonattainment areas are referred to as non attainment area (NAA) permits.\n\nThe fundamental goals of the PSD program are to:\n\nUnder the Clean Air Act states are required to submit a plan for non-attainment areas to reach attainment status as soon as possible but in no more than five years, based on the severity of the air pollution and the difficulty posed by obtaining cleaner air.\n\nThe plan must include:\n\nThe plan must be approved or revised if required for approval, and specify whether local governments or the state will implement and enforce the various changes. Achieving attainment status makes a request for reevaluation possible. It must include a plan for maintenance of air quality.\n\nSub-chapters of Title II cover state standards and grants, prohibited acts and actions to restrain violations, as well as a study of emissions from non road vehicles (other than locomotives) to determine whether they cause or contribute to air pollution. Motorcycles are treated in the same way as automobiles under the emission standards for new motor vehicles or motor vehicle engines. The last few sub chapters deal with high altitude performance adjustments, motor vehicle compliance program fees, prohibition on production of engines requiring leaded gasoline and urban bus standards.\n\nThis part of the bill was extremely controversial the time it was passed. The automobile industry argued that it could not meet the new standards. Senators expressed concern about impact on the economy. However the stricter standards led to the creation of the catalytic converter, which was a revolutionary development. (Coincidentally, these converters didn't work well with leaded gas, which contributed to the swift removal of lead from gasoline that was also recognized for having adverse health effects.) Specific new emissions standards for moving sources passed years later. \n\nMany volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are emitted over airports and affect the air quality in the region. VOCs include benzene, formaldehyde and butadienes which are known to cause health problems such as birth defects, cancer and skin irritation. Hundreds of tons of emissions from aircraft, ground support equipment, heating systems, and shuttles and passenger vehicles are released into the air, causing smog. Therefore, major cities such as Seattle, Denver, and San Francisco require a Climate Action Plan as well as a greenhouse gas inventory. Additionally, federal programs such as the Voluntary Airport Low Emissions Program (VALE) are working to offset costs for programs that reduce emissions.\n\nTitle II sets emission standards for airlines and aircraft engines and adopts standards set by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). However aircraft carbon dioxide emission standards have not been established by either ICAO nor the EPA. It is the responsibility of the Secretary of Transportation, after consultation with the Administrator, to prescribe regulations that comply with 42 U.S. Code § 7571 (Establishment of standards) and ensure the necessary inspections take place.\n\nTrucks and automobiles play a large role in deleterious air quality. Harmful chemicals such as nitrogen oxide, hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide and sulfur dioxide are released from motor vehicles. Some of these also react with sunlight to produce Photochemical. These harmful substances change the climate, alter ocean pH and include toxins that may cause cancer, birth defects or respiratory illness.\nMotor vehicles increased in the 1990s since approximately 58 percent of households owned two or more vehicles. The Clean Fuel Vehicle programs focused on alternative fuel use and petroleum fuels that met low emission vehicle (LEV) levels. Compressed natural gas, ethanol, methanol, liquefied petroleum gas and electricity are examples of cleaner alternative fuel. Programs such as the California Clean Fuels Program and pilot program are increasing demand that for new fuels to be developed to reduce harmful emissions.\n\nThe California pilot program incorporated under this section focuses on pollution control in ozone non-attainment areas. The provisions apply to light-duty trucks and light-duty vehicles in California. The state also requires that clean alternative fuels for sale at numerous locations with sufficient geographic distribution for convenience. Production of clean-fuel vehicles isn't mandated except as part of the California pilot program.\n\nUnder the law prior to 1990, EPA was required to construct a list of Hazardous Air Pollutants as well as health-based standards for each one. There were 187 air pollutants listed and the source from which they came. The EPA was given ten years to generate technology-based emission standards. Title III is considered a second phase, allowing the EPA to assess lingering risks after the enactment of the first phase of emission standards. Title III also enacts new standards with regard to the protection of public health.\n\nA citizen may file a lawsuit to obtain compliance with an emission standard issued by the EPA or by a state, unless there is an ongoing enforcement action being pursued by EPA or the appropriate state agency.\n\nThis title pre-dates the \"Clean Air Act\". With the passage of the \"Clean Air Act\", it became codified as Title IV. However, another Title IV was enacted in the 1990 amendments. The second Title IV was then appended to this Title IV as Title IV-A (see below).\n\nThis title established the EPA Office of Noise Abatement and Control to reduce noise pollution in urban areas, to minimize noise-related impacts on psychological and physiological effects on humans, effects on wildlife and property (including values), and other noise-related issues. The agency was also assigned to run experiments to study the effects of noise.\nThis title was added as part of the 1990 amendments. It addresses the issue of acid rain, which is caused by nitrogen oxides () and sulfur dioxide (SO) emissions from electric power plants powered by fossil fuels, and other industrial sources. The 1990 amendments gave industries more pollution control options including switching to low-sulfur coal and/or adding devices that controlled the harmful emissions. In some cases plants had to be closed down to prevent the dangerous chemicals from entering the atmosphere.\n\nTitle IV-A mandated a two-step process to reduce SO emissions. The first stage required more than 100 electric generating facilities larger than 100 megawatts to meet a 3.5 million ton SO emission reduction by January 1995. The second stage gave facilities larger than 75 megawatts a January 2000 deadline.\n\nThe 1990 amendments authorized a national operating permit program, covering thousands of large industrial and commercial sources. It required large businesses to address pollutants released into the air, measure their quantity, and have a plan to control and minimize them as well as to periodically report. This consolidated requirements for a facility into a single document.\n\nIn non-attainment areas, permits were required for sources that emit as little as 50, 25, or 10 tons per year of VOCs depending on the severity of the region’s non-attainment status.\n\nMost permits are issued by state and local agencies. If the state does not adequately monitor requirements, the EPA may take control. The public may request to view the permits by contacting the EPA. The permit is limited to no more than five years and requires a renewal.\n\nStarting in 1990, Title VI mandated regulations regarding the use and production of chemicals that harm the Earth’s stratospheric ozone layer. This ozone layer protects against harmful ultraviolet B sunlight linked to several medical conditions including cataracts and skin cancer.\n\nThe ozone-destroying chemicals were classified into two groups, Class I and Class II. Class I consists of substances, including chlorofluorocarbons, that have an ozone depletion potential (ODP) (HL) of 0.2 or higher. Class II lists substances, including hydro chlorofluorocarbons, that are known to or may be detrimental to the stratosphere. Both groups have a timeline for phase-out:\n\nTitle VI establishes methods for preventing harmful chemicals from entering the stratosphere in the first place, including recycling or proper disposal of chemicals and finding substitutes that cause less or no damage. The Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP) Program is EPA's program to evaluate and regulate substitutes for the ozone-depleting chemicals that are being phased out under the stratospheric ozone protection provisions of the Clean Air Act.\n\nOver 190 countries signed the Montreal Protocol in 1987, agreeing to work to eliminate or limit the use of chemicals with ozone-destroying properties.\n\nCongress passed the first legislation to address air pollution with the 1955 Air Pollution Control Act that provided funds to the U.S. Public Health service, but did not formulate pollution regulation. However, the Clean Air Act in 1963 created a research and regulatory program in the U.S. Public Health Service. The Act authorized development of emission standards for stationary sources, but not mobile sources of air pollution. The 1967 Air Quality Act mandated enforcement of interstate air pollution standards and authorized ambient monitoring studies and stationary source inspections.\n\nIn the Clean Air Act Extension of 1970, Congress greatly expanded the federal mandate by requiring comprehensive federal and state regulations for both industrial and mobile sources. The law established four new regulatory programs:\nThe 1970 law is sometimes called the \"Muskie Act\" because of the central role Maine Senator Edmund Muskie played in drafting the bill.\n\nTo implement the strict new Clean Air Act of 1970, during his first term as EPA Administrator William Ruckelshaus spent 60% of his time on the automobile industry, whose emissions were to be reduced 90% under the new law. Senators had been frustrated at the industry’s failure to cut emissions under previous, weaker air laws.\n\nThe Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977 required Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) of air quality for areas attaining the NAAQS and added requirements for non-attainment areas.\n\nThe 1990 Clean Air Act added regulatory programs for control of acid deposition (acid rain) and stationary source operating permits. The amendments moved considerably beyond the original criteria pollutants, expanding the NESHAP program with a list of 189 hazardous air pollutants to be controlled within hundreds of source categories, according to a specific schedule. The NAAQS program was also expanded. Other new provisions covered stratospheric ozone protection, increased enforcement authority and expanded research programs.\n\nThe legal authority for federal programs regarding air pollution control is based on the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments (1990 CAAA). These are the latest in a series of amendments made to the Clean Air Act (CAA), often referred to as \"the Act.\" This legislation modified and extended federal legal authority provided by the earlier Clean Air Acts of 1963 and 1970.\n\nThe 1955 Air Pollution Control Act was the first federal legislation involving air pollution; it authorized $3 million per year to the U.S. Public Health Service for five years to fund federal level air pollution research, air pollution control research, and technical and training assistance to the states. Subsequently, the act was extended for four years in 1959 with funding levels at $5 million per year. The act was then amended in 1960 and 1962. Although the 1955 act brought the air pollution issue to the federal level, no federal regulations were formulated. Control and prevention of air pollution was instead delegated to state and local agencies.\n\nThe Clean Air Act of 1963 was the first federal legislation regarding air pollution control. It established a federal program within the U.S. Public Health Service and authorized research into techniques for monitoring and controlling air pollution. In 1967, the Air Quality Act was enacted in order to expand federal government activities. In accordance with this law, enforcement proceedings were initiated in areas subject to interstate air pollution transport. As part of these proceedings, the federal government for the first time conducted extensive ambient monitoring studies and stationary source inspections.\n\nThe Air Quality Act of 1967 also authorized expanded studies of air pollutant emission inventories, ambient monitoring techniques, and control techniques.\n\nThe \"Clean Air Act of 1970\" (1970 CAA) authorized the development of comprehensive federal and state regulations to limit emissions from both stationary (industrial) sources and mobile sources. Four major regulatory programs affecting stationary sources were initiated:\n\nEnforcement authority was substantially expanded. This very important legislation was adopted at approximately the same time as the \"National Environmental Policy Act\".\n\nMajor amendments were added to the \"Clean Air Act\" in 1977 (1977 CAAA). The 1977 Amendments primarily concerned provisions for the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) of air quality in areas attaining the NAAQS. The 1977 CAAA also contained requirements pertaining to sources in non-attainment areas for NAAQS. A non-attainment area is a geographic area that does not meet one or more of the federal air quality standards. Both of these 1977 CAAA established major permit review requirements to ensure attainment and maintenance of the NAAQS. These amendments also included the adoption of an offset trading policy originally applied to Los Angeles in 1974 that enables new sources to offset their emissions by purchasing extra reductions from existing sources.\n\nAnother set of major amendments to the Clean Air Act occurred in 1990 (1990 CAAA). The 1990 CAAA substantially increased the authority and responsibility of the federal government. New regulatory programs were authorized for control of acid deposition (acid rain) and for the issuance of stationary source operating permits. The NESHAPs were incorporated into a greatly expanded program for controlling toxic air pollutants. The provisions for attainment and maintenance of NAAQS were substantially modified and expanded. Other revisions included provisions regarding stratospheric ozone protection, increased enforcement authority, and expanded research programs.\n\nSome of the principal milestones in the evolution of the Clean Air Act are as follows:\n\n\"The Air Pollution Control Act\" of 1955\n\n\"Clean Air Act\" of 1963\n\n\"Air Quality Act\" of 1967\n\n\"Clean Air Act\" of 1970\n\n\"1977 Amendments to the Clean Air Act of 1970\"\n\n\"1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act of 1970\"\n\nSince the initial establishment of six mandated criteria pollutants (ozone, particulate matter, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, and lead), advancements in testing and monitoring have led to the discovery of many other significant air pollutants.\n\nHowever, with the act in place and its many improvements, the U.S. has seen many pollutant levels and associated cases of health complications drop. According to the EPA, the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments has prevented or will prevent:\nThis chart shows the health benefits of the Clean Air Act programs that reduce levels of fine particles and ozone.\nIn 1997 EPA tightened the NAAQS regarding permissible levels of the ground-level ozone that make up smog and the fine airborne particulate matter that makes up soot. The decision came after months of public review of the proposed new standards, as well as long and fierce internal discussion within the Clinton administration, leading to the most divisive environmental debate of that decade.\nThe new regulations were challenged in the courts by industry groups as a violation of the U.S. Constitution's nondelegation principle and eventually landed in the Supreme Court of the United States, whose 2001 unanimous ruling in \"Whitman v. American Trucking Ass'ns, Inc.\" largely upheld EPA's actions.\n\nThe Clean Air Act (CAA or Act) directs EPA to establish national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) for pollutants at levels that will protect public health. EPA and American Lung Association promoted the 2011 Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) to control ozone and fine particles. Aim was to cut emissions half from 2005 to 2014. It was claimed to prevent each year 400,000 asthma cases and save ca 2m work and schooldays lost by respiratory illness. Some states (e.g. Texas), cities and power companies sued the case (EPA v EME Homer City Generation). The appeals-court judges decided by two to one that the rule is too strict. Based on appeals the power companies were allowed to continue thousands of persons respiratory illnesses prolonged time in the USA. According to the Economist (2013) the Supreme Court decision may affect how the EPA regulates other pollutants, including the greenhouse gases.\n\nThe 1970 Clean Air Act required states to develop State Implementation Plans for how they would meet new national ambient air quality standards by 1977. Although the 1990 Clean Air Act is a federal law covering the entire country, the states do much of the work to carry out the Act. The EPA has allowed the individual states to elect responsibility for compliance with and regulation of the CAA within their own borders in exchange for funding. For example, a state air pollution agency holds a hearing on a permit application by a power or chemical plant or fines a company for violating air pollution limits. However, election is not mandatory and in some cases states have chosen to not accept responsibility for enforcement of the act and force the EPA to assume those duties.\n\nIn order to take over compliance with the CAA the states must write and submit a state implementation plan (SIP) to the EPA for approval. A state implementation plan is a collection of the regulations a state will use to clean up polluted areas. The states are obligated to notify the public of these plans, through hearings that offer opportunities to comment, in the development of each state implementation plan. The SIP becomes the state's legal guide for local enforcement of the CAA. For example, Rhode Island law requires compliance with the Federal CAA through the SIP. The SIP delegates permitting and enforcement responsibility to the state Department of Environmental Management (RI-DEM).\n\nThe federal law recognizes that states should lead in carrying out the Clean Air Act, because pollution control problems often require special understanding of local industries, geography, housing patterns, etc. However, states are not allowed to have weaker pollution controls than the national minimum criteria set by EPA. EPA must approve each SIP, and if a SIP isn't acceptable, EPA can take over CAA enforcement in that state. For example, California was unable to meet the new standards set by the Clean Air Act of 1970, which led to a lawsuit and a federal state implementation plan for the state.\n\nThe United States government, through the EPA, assists the states by providing scientific research, expert studies, engineering designs, and money to support clean air programs.\n\nMetropolitan planning organizations must approve all federally funded transportation projects in a given urban area. If the MPO's plans do not, Federal Highway Administration and the Federal Transit Administration have the authority to withhold funds if the plans do not conform with federal requirements, including air quality standards. In 2010, the EPA directly fined the San Joaquin Valley Air Pollution Control District $29 million for failure to meet ozone standards, resulting in fees for county drivers and businesses. This was the results of a federal appeals court case that required the EPA to continue enforce older, stronger standards, and spurred debate in Congress over amending the Act.\n\nMany states, or concerned citizens of the state, have established their own programs to help promote pollution clean-up strategies.\n\nFor example,(in alphabetical order by state)\n\nAir pollution often travels from its source in one state to another state. In many metropolitan areas, people live in one state and work or shop in another; air pollution from cars and trucks may spread throughout the interstate area. The 1990 Clean Air Act provides for interstate commissions on air pollution control, which are to develop regional strategies for cleaning up air pollution. The 1990 amendments include other provisions to reduce interstate air pollution.\n\nThe Acid Rain Program, created under Title IV of the Act, authorizes emissions trading to reduce the overall cost of controlling emissions of sulfur dioxide.\n\nThe Act requires industrial facilities to implement a Leak Detection and Repair (LDAR) program to monitor and audit a facility's fugitive emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC). The program is intended to identify and repair components such as valves, pumps, compressors, flanges, connectors and other components that may be leaking. These components are the main source of the fugitive VOC emissions.\n\nTesting is done manually using a portable vapor analyzer that read in parts per million (ppm). Monitoring frequency, and the leak threshold, is determined by various factors such as the type of component being tested and the chemical running through the line. Moving components such as pumps and agitators are monitored more frequently than non-moving components such as flanges and screwed connectors. The regulations require that when a leak is detected the component be repaired within a set amount of days. Most facilities get 5 days for an initial repair attempt with no more than 15 days for a complete repair. Allowances for delaying the repairs beyond the allowed time are made for some components where repairing the component requires shutting process equipment down.\n\nEPA began regulating greenhouse gases (GHGs) from mobile and stationary sources of air pollution under the Clean Air Act for the first time on January 2, 2011, after having established its first auto emissions standards in 2010. Standards for mobile sources have been established pursuant to Section 202 of the CAA, and GHGs from stationary sources are controlled under the authority of Part C of Title I of the Act. The EPA's auto emission standards for greenhouse gas emissions issued in 2010 and 2012 are intended to cut emissions from targeted vehicles by half, double fuel economy of passenger cars and light-duty trucks by 2025 and save over $4 billion barrels of oil and $1.7 trillion for consumers. The agency has also proposed a two-phase program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for medium and heavy duty trucks and buses.\n\nBelow is a table for the sources of greenhouse gases, taken from data in 2008. Of all greenhouse gases, about 76 percent of the sources are manageable under the CAA, marked with an asterisk (*). All others are regulated independently, if at all.\nBy promoting pollution reduction, the Clean Air Act can help reduce heightened exposure to air pollution among communities of color and low-income communities. Environmental researcher Dr. Marie Lynn Miranda notes that African American populations are “consistently over represented” in areas with the poorest air quality. Dense populations of low-income and minority communities inhabit the most polluted areas across the United States, which is considered to exacerbate health problems among these populations. High levels of exposure to air pollution is linked to several health conditions, including asthma, cancer, premature death, and infant mortality, each of which disproportionately impact communities of color and low-income communities. The pollution reduction achieved by the Clean Air Act is associated with a decline in each of these conditions and can promote environmental justice for communities that are disproportionately impacted by air pollution and diminished health status.\n\nThe EPA analyzes violators of the Clean Air Act and addresses the violators accordingly. For companies or parties that do not comply with the act monetary penalties can be cited. Per day the EPA could fine civil administrators $37,500 per day, with a maximum of about 8 days; unless otherwise mandated by the EPA. For a field citation which is against federal facilities which are not abiding by EPA standards can get fines up to $7,500 per day.\n\nMajor cases of Clean Air Act violations include:\n\n\nA 2017 study found that the Clean Air Act of 1970 led to an over 10 percent reduction in pollution (\"ambient TSP levels\") in counties that exceeded the pollution thresholds set by the Act in the three years after the regulation went into effect. The study found that this regulation-induced reduction in air pollution is caused affected workers to work more and earned one percent more in annual earnings. The authors estimate that cumulative lifetime income gain for each affected individual is approximately $4,300 in present value terms.\n\nIn addition, because air quality across the United States improved; it is estimated 205,000 premature deaths and millions of other respiratory complications were prevented which resulted in an economic savings of $50 trillion versus the $523 billion invested to meet the Clean Air Act standard.\n\nMobile sources including automobiles, trains, and boat engines have become 99% cleaner for pollutants like hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, and particle emissions since the 1970s. The allowable emissions of volatile organic chemicals, carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides, and lead from individual cars have also been reduced by more than 90%, resulting in decreased national emissions of these pollutants despite a more than 400% increase in total miles driven yearly.\n\nSince the 1980s, 1/4th of ground level ozone has been cut, mercury emissions have been cut by 80%, and since the change from leaded gas to unleaded gas 90% of atmospheric lead pollution has been reduced.\n\nA 2018 study found that the Clean Air Act contributed to the 60% decline in pollution emissions by the manufacturing industry between 1990 and 2008.\n\nClimate change poses a challenge to the management of conventional air pollutants in the United States due to warmer, dryer summer conditions that can lead to increased air stagnation episodes. Prolonged droughts that may contribute to wildfires would also result in regionally high levels of air particles.\n\nAs of 2017, some US cities still don’t meet all national ambient air quality standards. It is likely that tens of thousands of premature deaths are still being caused by fine-particle pollution and ground-level ozone pollution.\n\nAir pollution is not bound to a nation. Often, air coming into the U.S. contains pollution from upwind countries, making it harder to meet air quality standards. In turn, air that travels downwind of the U.S. likely has pollutants in it already. Addressing this may require international negotiations of reductions of pollutants in the originating countries. This also relates to the challenge of climate change.\n\nDiane Katz, a research fellow for the Heritage Foundation, criticized the validity of the Clean Air Act by stating, \"The largest proportion of economic benefit is based on the value of avoiding premature mortality. Yet the valuation of this benefit ranks among the most significant uncertainties in the study, according to the researchers. Alternative estimates they cite would lower the benefit calculation by up to 22 percent.\"The Clean Air Act is a constant battle between current economic benefits versus future cost benefits of both health of the nation, and economy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23597162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23597162", "title": "Commodity Exchange Authority", "text": "Commodity Exchange Authority\n\nThe Commodity Exchange Authority was a former regulatory agency of USDA. It was established to \nadminister the Commodity Exchange Act of 1936; it was the predecessor to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).\n"}
{"id": "25897697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25897697", "title": "Cuba–Jamaica Maritime Boundary Agreement", "text": "Cuba–Jamaica Maritime Boundary Agreement\n\nThe Cuba–Jamaica Maritime Boundary Agreement is a 1994 treaty between Cuba and Jamaica which delimits the maritime boundary between the two island countries.\n\nThe treaty was signed in Kingston, Jamaica on 18 February 1994. The text of the treaty establishes a boundary in the waters above the Cayman Trough that is 175 nautical miles long and unusually complex. The boundary consists of 105 straight-line maritime segments defined by 106 individual coordinate points. The complexity of the boundary was a result of relatively strict adherence to the principle of forming a border at the precise equidistant line between the two territories. The far western point of the border is an as-yet unconfirmed tripoint with the Cayman Islands.\n\nThe treaty came into force on 18 July 1995 after it was ratified by both states. The full name of the treaty is \"Agreement between the Government of the Jamaica and the Government of the \nRepublic of Cuba on the delimitation of the maritime boundary between the two States\".\n\nCuba—Jamaica Maritime Border Agreement is an Agreement between the Government of the Jamaica and the Government of the Republic of Cuba on the delimitation of the maritime boundary between the two States\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3066510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3066510", "title": "Don't Copy That Floppy", "text": "Don't Copy That Floppy\n\nDon't Copy That Floppy was an anti–copyright infringement propaganda campaign run by the Software Publishers Association (SPA) beginning in 1992. The video for the campaign, starring M. E. Hart as \"MC Double Def DP,\" was filmed at Cardozo High School in Washington, D.C. and produced by cooperation between the SPA, the Educational Section Anti-Piracy Committee, and the Copyright Protection Fund, in association with Vilardi Films. The groups distributed the film for general viewing through VHS tapes that were mailed to schools. In later years, the film became a viral video sensation through websites such as YouTube, where the official page has had over 1,800,000 views .\n\nIn May 2009, the Software and Information Industry Association (formed in 1999 when the Software Publishers Association merged with the Information Industry Association) released the trailer for a follow-up to \"Don't Copy That Floppy\", called \"Don't Copy That 2\", released on September 9, 2009. The sequel features MC Double Def DP as he continues his crusade against \"piracy\" in the digital age.\n\nTwo teenagers, Jenny (played by Marja Allen) and Corey (played by Jimmy Todd), are playing a game on a classroom computer. Corey is exuberantly pushing keys to show the viewer that he is heavily immersed in the game action; Jenny is beating him. Frustrated, he asks for a rematch, but she has an upcoming class and must leave. He decides he will copy the game so that he can play it at home. Upon inserting his blank floppy disk into the Apple Macintosh LC, a video pops up on the computer. This video is of a rapper named MC Double Def DP, the \"Disk Protector\" (played by M.E. Hart).\n\nThe point of the video is the message that copyright infringement of software will cause the computer and video game industry to lose profit, resulting in halted production of further computer games. (The games the video chooses as examples—\"The Oregon Trail\", \"Tetris\", and the \"Where in the World is Carmen Sandiego?\" series—were among the most successful and bestselling games of the late-1980s to mid-1990s.)\n\nThe rap video portion is interspersed with interviews of artists, writers, programmers and a lawyer. These people are the staff responsible for design of an early version of the game \"Neverwinter Nights\" (then an America Online MMORPG) and allows them to explain the issue in greater detail:\n\n\nThey explain how games are made, indicating that creating a game can involve 20 to 30 people integrating the various parts, and working on documentation, technical support, and marketing. The point they try to raise is that if sales are low, the authors may decide that the game is unpopular and stop making it.\n\nAt the end of the video, the DP fades away, leaving Corey and Jenny to decide for themselves whether they will copy the game—they decide against it. Corey, who has some money left over from his summer job, decides that he will buy the game. Jenny agrees and jokes that Corey's game will even come with a manual.\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal\" has stated that the film's aesthetic is similar to the TV program \"Saved By the Bell\". It has also highlighted it as an example of classic bubblegum hip-hop with long-run staying power.\n\nThe major criticism of the campaign came from educators and the press, who criticized the campaign for only promoting one point of view, instead of a broader scope of the issue of copyright online. That point of view, they argued, was biased because it benefited a specific group (the software publishing industry), and failed to present alternative views such as the Free Software movement.\n\nIn the late 2000s, the popularity of the video was revived, but this time as a meme. Since the creators have always allowed non-commercial copying of the film, it became a viral video after video-sharing sites such as Google Video and YouTube went online in the mid-2000s. The video first gained popularity on the site YTMND in 2004 and then gained (and re-gained) widespread YouTube popularity in 2005, 2006, and 2008, sparking user-generated remixes and parodies, and is now considered a popular internet meme.\n\nIn May 2009, the Software and Information Industry Association (SIIA) released the trailer for a follow-up to the original 1992 video, which premiered on September 9, 2009. \"Don't Copy That 2\" features M. E. Hart reprising his role as \"MC Double Def DP\". The trailer shows armed SWAT police raiding homes and arresting the mothers of would-be pirates. The SIIA website says that \"Antipiracy hero MC Double Def DP will return to drop some knowledge on would-be pirates in the sequel to 1992's 'Don't Copy That Floppy.'.\n\n\"Don't Copy That 2\" has received over 543,000 views on YouTube as of March 2, 2018. Since its release it has been criticized by the press for being out of date, referencing material like the \"Doom\" series and Klingon that the current target audience (mostly teenagers) may not be familiar with. The sequel was also heavily criticized in the press for misrepresenting the way copyright law is enforced, what types of copying were actually considered \"criminal\" enough to prompt punishment, and what punishment actually looked like.\n\n"}
{"id": "1866930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1866930", "title": "East Waynesville Baptist Church", "text": "East Waynesville Baptist Church\n\nEast Waynesville Baptist Church is a Baptist church in Waynesville, a small town in the Great Smoky Mountains of Western North Carolina, United States of America. It is an independent and autonomous member of the Southern Baptist Convention and the Baptist State Convention of North Carolina (BSCNC). As of May 2005 it had 100 members. The church was involved in a 2005 controversy after the pastor allegedly expelled members because of their political views.\n\nThe church was built in 1965.\n\nThe church received mass media attention in May 2005. During a May 2 deacons' meeting, its pastor Chan Chandler allegedly told any members who had supported John Kerry in the 2004 United States presidential election to leave. This statement was reportedly captured on audio tape. Nine members of the church, including at least one deacon, left the meeting at that point. Chandler then allegedly declared an impromptu business meeting, and a majority of the 20 church members present voted to expel those who left. Chandler had been vocal in earlier months that he considered voting for the Democratic Party tantamount to supporting homosexuality and abortion. Forty church members threatened to terminate their membership in protest against the actions taken at the meeting.\n\nThe BSCNC called the actions attributed to the church leadership \"highly irregular\" and warned that they could threaten the church's tax-exempt status. Groups campaigning for church-state separation called for the Internal Revenue Service to consider removing the church's tax-exempt status on the grounds that it engaged in political advocacy. A writer in \"Christianity Today\" said the negative comments about John Kerry cross a line and could have fomented negative tax action. He noted, however, that the parish suffered from a demographic split. Dubbing it \"Chandlergate\" he noted that according to the \"Raleigh News and Observer\", 35 Chandler followers left the sanctuary when Chandler resigned.\n\nIn speaking to the \"Baptist Press\", Chandler attempted \"to clarify whether the nine people were in fact voted out of the church, Chandler said they initially left voluntarily.\" He also told the Baptist Press: \"I don't know how these folks voted,\" Chandler told Baptist Press. \"And I never endorsed any candidate.\" But he admits he preached about the \"unbiblical values\" of John Kerry, particularly in regard to abortion and homosexuality. He also claimed to have \"mentioned two Republicans' names\" as unbiblical examples. He opined that he made \"negative endorsements\" but \"never a positive endorsement\" of a candidate.>\n\nOn May 10, 2005 Chandler resigned as pastor. He denied that the actions at the meeting were politically motivated, but did not give his version of events. The BSCNC offered to assist the church in healing the rift between the factions.\n\nAt least some of the former parishioners continued to be disgruntled, and contemplated taking further actions, including hiring an attorney.\n\nThe dispute focused attention on the limits, if any, on the relationship of sermonizing from the pulpit and the political activities of religious practitioners. An opposing view is that a church, being a voluntary association, has an inherent right to discipline and choose its members incidental to its rights of Freedom of religion and Freedom of association, which should not be interfered with by the state.\n\n"}
{"id": "56759913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56759913", "title": "Embassy of Palestine in Algeria", "text": "Embassy of Palestine in Algeria\n\nThe Embassy of Palestine in Algiers () was the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Algeria. It was located at Dély Ibrahim neighborhood in Algiers.\n\n"}
{"id": "21408988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21408988", "title": "Enten controversy", "text": "Enten controversy\n\nThe Enten controversy involved Kazutsugi Nami, the chairman of Tokyo bedding supplier Ladies & Gentlemen (L&G), arrested by Japanese police on 5 February 2009. He and twenty-one other executives were accused of defrauding 37,000 investors of at least 126 billion yen (approximately US$1.4 billion) between 2001 and 2009. Nami is the inventor of a quasi-currency, \"Enten\", which he used to attract investors. Some sources put the total amount of the money involved as high as 226 billion yen, which would make it, if proven, to be the biggest investment fraud in Japanese history since Toyota Shoji, an investment group, defrauded investors of 202.5 billion yen in the late '80s.\n\nIn order to gain credibility and popularity, Nami's company used famous enka singers such as Takashi Hosokawa in their advertisements. In May 2008, Hosokawa was accused on the Japanese civil court for participating, but he insisted that he was not responsible for the content of their advertisement.\n\nLadies and Gentlemen, set up in 1987, originally sold futons and health food, and began accepting investment money in 2001. The company's established existence tricked many into believing it was stable. A 65-year-old woman who lost 30 million yen (about US$300,000) saved over four decades was quoted as saying: \"I thought the company was fine as it was in business for a long time\". Another woman, a 70-year-old who blamed herself for the loss of two million yen (about US$20,000), said: \"I had fun and a lively life ... I was stupid. It's my fault as I was greedy.\"\n\nSince 2004 Nami had been issuing special electronic money which he referred to as to investors who paid at least ¥100,000 (approx. £750, US$1,100). Enten was a virtual currency which Nami expected to become legal tender in the post-recession by which time he will also have become \"world famous.\" Investors were promised 36% annual returns. There was even an \"Enten fair\" during which participants sang the praises of Nami's investment plan. One woman described the existence of Enten as \"wonderful\", whilst another said: \"It's like a dream, I can buy anything.\"\n\n\"Enten\" were generated through his customers' mobile phones and could be used to purchase items online, including vegetables, futons, clothing and jewelry. In February 2007, L&G dividends were distributed in Enten, rather than in cash, which caused many lawsuits and cancellations of accounts. In October 2007, police searched L&G's headquarters in Tokyo, suspecting that the company had violated investment laws. The company declared bankruptcy in November 2007. \n\nNami denies allegations of any wrongdoing. He had built up a cult-like following amongst his investors. Lawyers representing these victims say Nami believed he had a \"divine decree\" to \"eliminate poverty from this world.\"\n\nNami was drinking beer when police, followed by reporters, arrested him in a restaurant where he was eating his breakfast close to his Tokyo office at 5:30 a.m. local time on 4 February 2009. Nami and other company executives were arrested on suspicion of violating the Law for Punishment of Organized Crimes. Nami declared his innocence as he was led away by the police, accusing them of destroying his business. Arrested before television cameras, Nami insisted: \"Time will tell if I'm a conman or a swindler. I'm leading 50,000 people. Can they charge a company this big with fraud?\" Shortly beforehand, he had been asked about his feelings for those who had lost money: \"No. I have put my life at stake. Why do I have to apologize? I'm the poorest victim. Nobody lost more than I did. You should be aware that high returns come with a high risk.\"\n\nOn March 18, 2010, Nami was sentenced to 18 years in prison for his scheme. \n\n"}
{"id": "49542962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49542962", "title": "FBI–Apple encryption dispute", "text": "FBI–Apple encryption dispute\n\nThe FBI–Apple encryption dispute concerns whether and to what extent courts in the United States can compel manufacturers to assist in unlocking cell phones whose data are cryptographically protected. There is much debate over public access to strong encryption.\n\nIn 2015 and 2016, Apple Inc. has received and objected to or challenged at least 11 orders issued by United States district courts under the All Writs Act of 1789. Most of these seek to compel Apple \"to use its existing capabilities to extract data like contacts, photos and calls from locked iPhones running on operating systems iOS 7 and older\" in order to assist in criminal investigations and prosecutions. A few requests, however, involve phones with more extensive security protections, which Apple has no current ability to break. These orders would compel Apple to write new software that would let the government bypass these devices' security and unlock the phones.\n\nThe most well-known instance of the latter category was a February 2016 court case in the United States District Court for the Central District of California. The FBI wanted Apple to create and electronically sign new software that would enable the FBI to unlock a work-issued iPhone 5C it recovered from one of the shooters who, in a December 2015 terrorist attack in San Bernardino, California, killed 14 people and injured 22. The two attackers later died in a shootout with police, having first destroyed their personal phones. The work phone was recovered intact but was locked with a four-digit password and was set to eliminate all its data after ten failed password attempts. Apple declined to create the software, and a hearing was scheduled for March 22. However, a day before the hearing was supposed to happen, the government obtained a delay, saying they had found a third party able to assist in unlocking the iPhone and, on March 28, it announced that the FBI had unlocked the iPhone and withdrew its request. In March 2018, the Los Angeles Times later reported \"the FBI eventually found that Farook's phone had information only about work and revealed nothing about the plot.\"\n\nIn another case in Brooklyn, a magistrate judge ruled that the All Writs Act could not be used to compel Apple to unlock an iPhone. The government appealed the ruling, but then dropped the case on April 22 after it was given the correct passcode.\n\nIn 1993, the National Security Agency (NSA) introduced the Clipper chip, an encryption device with an acknowledged backdoor for government access, that NSA proposed be used for phone encryption. The proposal touched off a public debate, known as the Crypto Wars, and the Clipper chip was never adopted.\n\nIt was revealed as a part of the 2013 mass surveillance disclosures by Edward Snowden that the NSA and the British Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) had access to the user data in iPhones, BlackBerry, and Android phones and could read almost all smartphone information, including SMS, location, emails, and notes.\n\nAccording to \"The New York Times\", Apple developed new encryption methods for its iOS operating system, versions 8 and later, \"so deep that Apple could no longer comply with government warrants asking for customer information to be extracted from devices.\" Throughout 2015, prosecutors advocated for the U.S. government to be able to compel decryption of iPhone contents.\n\nIn September 2015, Apple released a white paper detailing the security measures in its then-new iOS 9 operating system. The iPhone 5C model can be protected by a four-digit PIN code. After more than ten incorrect attempts to unlock the phone with the wrong PIN, the contents of the phone will be rendered inaccessible by erasing the AES encryption key that protects its stored data. According to the Apple white paper, iOS includes a Device Firmware Upgrade (DFU) mode, and that \"[r]estoring a device after it enters DFU mode returns it to a known good state with the certainty that only unmodified Apple-signed code is present.\"\n\nThe FBI recovered an Apple iPhone 5C—owned by the San Bernardino County, California government—that had been issued to its employee, Syed Rizwan Farook, one of the shooters involved in the December 2015 San Bernardino attack. The attack killed 14 people and seriously injured 22. The two attackers died four hours after the attack in a shootout with police, having previously destroyed their personal phones. Despite having recovered Farook's work phone, the authorities were at a loss, for it had been locked with a four-digit password and was also programmed to automatically delete all its data after ten failed password attempts.\n\nOn February 9, 2016, the FBI announced that it was unable to unlock the county-owned phone it recovered, due to its advanced security features, including encryption of user data. The FBI first asked the National Security Agency to break into the phone, but they were unable to since they only had knowledge of breaking into other devices that are commonly used by criminals, and not iPhones. As a result, the FBI asked Apple Inc. to create a new version of the phone's iOS operating system that could be installed and run in the phone's random access memory to disable certain security features that Apple refers to as \"GovtOS\". Apple declined due to its policy which required it to never undermine the security features of its products. The FBI responded by successfully applying to a United States magistrate judge, Sheri Pym, to issue a court order, mandating Apple to create and provide the requested software. The order was not a subpoena, but rather was issued under the All Writs Act of 1789. The court order, called \"In the Matter of the Search of an Apple iPhone Seized During the Execution of a Search Warrant on a Black Lexus IS300, California License Plate 35KGD203\", was filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California.\n\nThe use of the All Writs Act to compel Apple to write new software was unprecedented and, according to legal experts, it was likely to prompt \"an epic fight pitting privacy against national security.\" It was also pointed out that the implications of the legal precedent that would be established by the success of this action against Apple would go far beyond issues of privacy.\n\nThe court order specified that Apple provide assistance to accomplish the following:\nThe order also specifies that Apple's assistance may include providing software to the FBI that \"will be coded by Apple with a unique identifier of the phone so that the [software] would only load and execute on the SUBJECT DEVICE\"\n\nThere has been much research and analysis of the technical issues presented in the case since the court order was made available to the public.\n\nThe February 16, 2016 order issued by Magistrate Judge Pym gave Apple five days to apply for relief if Apple believed the order was \"unreasonably burdensome\". Apple announced its intent to oppose the order, citing the security risks that the creation of a backdoor would pose towards customers. It also stated that no government had ever asked for similar access. The company was given until February 26 to fully respond to the court order.\n\nOn the same day the order was issued, chief executive officer Tim Cook released an online statement to Apple customers, explaining the company's motives for opposing the court order. He also stated that while they respect the FBI, the request they made threatens data security by establishing a precedent that the U.S. government could use to force any technology company to create software that could undermine the security of its products. He said in part:\n\nIn response to the opposition, on February 19, the U.S. Department of Justice filed a new application urging a federal judge to compel Apple to comply with the order. The new application stated that the company could install the software on the phone in its own premises, and after the FBI had hacked the phone via remote connection, Apple could remove and destroy the software. Apple hired attorneys Ted Olson and Theodore J. Boutrous Jr. to fight the order on appeal.\n\nThe same day, Apple revealed that it had discussed with the FBI four methods to access data in the iPhone in early January, but, as was revealed by a footnote in the February 19 application to the court, one of the more promising methods was ruled out by a mistake during the investigation of the attack. After the shooter's phone had been recovered, the FBI asked San Bernardino County, the owner of the phone, to reset the password to the shooter's iCloud account in order to acquire data from the iCloud backup. However, this rendered the phone unable to backup recent data to iCloud unless its pass-code is entered. This was confirmed by the U.S. Department of Justice, which then added that any backup would have been \"insufficient\" because they would not have been able to recover enough information from it.\n\nThe government cites as precedent \"United States v. New York Telephone Co.\", in which the Supreme Court ruled in 1977 that the All Writs Act gave courts the power to demand reasonable technical assistance from the phone company in accessing phone calling records. Apple responded that New York Telephone was already collecting the data in question in the course of its business, something the Supreme Court took note of in its ruling. Apple also asserts that being compelled to write new software \"amounts to compelled speech and viewpoint discrimination in violation of the First Amendment. ... What is to stop the government from demanding that Apple write code to turn on the microphone in aid of government surveillance, activate the video camera, surreptitiously record conversations, or turn on location services to track the phone's user?\" Apple argued that the FBI had not made use of all of the government's tools, such as employing the resources of the NSA. A hearing on the case was scheduled for March 22, 2016.\n\nSan Bernardino County District Attorney Michael Ramos filed a brief stating the iPhone may contain evidence of a \"lying dormant cyber pathogen\" that could have been introduced into the San Bernardino County computer network, as well as identification of a possible third gunman who was alleged to have been seen at the scene of the attack by eyewitnesses. The following day, Ramos told the Associated Press that he did not know whether the shooters had compromised the county's infrastructure, but the only way to know for sure was by gaining access to the iPhone. This statement has been criticized by cyber-security professionals as being improbable.\n\nOn March 21, the government requested and was granted a delay, saying a third party had demonstrated a possible way to unlock the iPhone in question and the FBI needed more time to determine if it will work. On March 28, the FBI said it had unlocked the iPhone with the third party's help, and an anonymous official said that the hack's applications were limited; the Department of Justice withdrew the case. The lawyer for the FBI has stated that they are using the extracted information to further investigate the case.\n\nOn April 7, FBI Director James Comey said that the tool used can only unlock an iPhone 5C like that used by the San Bernardino shooter, as well as older iPhone models lacking the Touch ID sensor. Comey also confirmed that the tool was purchased from a third party but would not reveal the source, later indicating the tool cost more than $1.3 million and that they did not purchase the rights to technical details about how the tool functions. Although the FBI was able to use other technological means to access the cellphone data from the San Bernardino shooter's iPhone 5C, without the aid of Apple, law enforcement still expresses concern over the encryption controversy.\n\nSome news outlets, citing anonymous sources, identified the third party as Israeli company Cellebrite. However, \"The Washington Post\" reported that, according to anonymous \"people familiar with the matter\", the FBI had instead paid \"professional hackers\" who used a zero-day vulnerability in the iPhone's software to bypass its ten-try limitation, and did not need Cellebrite's assistance.\n\nApple had previously challenged the U.S. Department of Justice's authority to compel it to unlock an iPhone 5S in a drug case in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York in Brooklyn (\"In re Order Requiring Apple Inc. to Assist in the Execution of a Search Warrant Issued by the Court\", case number 1:15-mc-01902), after the magistrate judge in the case, James Orenstein, requested Apple's position before issuing an order. On February 29, 2016, Judge Orenstein denied the government's request, saying the All Writs Act cannot be used to force a company to modify its products: \"The implications of the government's position are so far-reaching – both in terms of what it would allow today and what it implies about Congressional intent in 1789 – as to produce impermissibly absurd results.\" Orenstein went on to criticize the government's stance, writing, \"It would be absurd to posit that the authority the government sought was anything other than obnoxious to the law.\" The Justice Department appealed the ruling to District Court Judge Margot Brodie. Apple requested a delay while the FBI attempted to access the San Bernardino iPhone without Apple's help. On April 8, after the FBI succeeded, the Justice Department told the Brooklyn court it intended to press forward with its demand for assistance there, but on April 22, the government withdrew its request, telling the court \"an individual\" (the suspect, according to press reports) had provided the correct passcode.\n\nIn addition to the San Bernardino case and the Brooklyn case, Apple has received at least nine different requests from federal courts under the All Writs Act for iPhone or iPad products. Apple has objected to these requests. This fact was revealed by Apple in court filings in the Brooklyn case made at the request of the judge in that case. Most of these requests call upon Apple \"to use its existing capabilities to extract data like contacts, photos and calls from locked iPhones running on operating systems iOS7 and older\" (as in the Brooklyn case), while others \"involve phones with more extensive encryption, which Apple cannot break\" and presumably seek to order Apple to \"design new software to let the government circumvent the device's security protocols and unlock the phone\" (as in the San Bernardino case).\n\nNational reactions to Apple's opposition of the order were mixed. A CBS News poll that sampled 1,022 Americans found that 50% of the respondents supported the FBI's stance, while 45% supported Apple's stance. Also, 1,002 surveyed Americans who own smartphones were divided into two sides; 51% were against Apple's decision, while 38% supported their stance.\n\nThe Reform Government Surveillance coalition, which includes major tech firms Microsoft, Facebook, Yahoo!, Twitter, and LinkedIn, has indicated its opposition to the order. By March 3, the deadline, a large number of \"amicus curiae\" briefs were filed with the court, with numerous technology firms supporting Apple's position, including a joint brief from Amazon.com, Box, Cisco Systems, Dropbox, Evernote, Facebook, Google, Lavabit, Microsoft, Mozilla, Nest Labs, Pinterest, Slack Technologies, Snapchat, WhatsApp, and Yahoo!. Briefs from the American Civil Liberties Union, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, Access Now, and the Center for Democracy and Technology also supported Apple.\n\nThe think tank Niskanen Center has suggested that the case is a door-in-the-face technique designed to gain eventual approval for encryption backdoors and is viewed as a revival of the Crypto Wars.\n\nU.S. Representative Mike Honda, a Democrat who represents the Silicon Valley region, has voiced his support for Apple.\n\nOn February 23, 2016, a series of pro-Apple protests organized by Fight for the Future were held outside of Apple's stores in over 40 locations.\n\nZeid Raad al-Hussein, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, warned the FBI of the potential for \"extremely damaging implications\" on human rights and that they \"risk unlocking a Pandora's box\" through their investigation.\n\nGeneral Michael Hayden, former director of the NSA and the Central Intelligence Agency, in a March 7 interview with Maria Bartiromo on the Fox Business Network, supported Apple's position, noting that the CIA considers cyber-attacks the number one threat to U.S. security and saying that \"this may be a case where we've got to give up some things in law enforcement and even counter terrorism in order to preserve this aspect, our cybersecurity.\"\n\nSalihin Kondoker, whose wife was shot in the attack but survived, filed a friend of the court brief siding with Apple; his brief said that he \"understand[s] that this software the government wants them to use will be used against millions of other innocent people. I share their fear.\"\n\nWith Apple's privacy policy for the customers there is no way of getting into a phone without a person's master password. With this policy there will be no backdoor access on the phone for the law enforcement to access the person's private information. This has caused a great dispute between the FBI and Apple's encryption. Apple has closed this backdoor for the law enforcement because they believe that by creating this backdoor it would make it easier for law enforcement, and also make it easier for criminal hackers to gain access to people's personal data on their phone. Former FBI director James Comey says that \"We are drifting to a place in this country where there will be zones that are beyond the reach of the law.\" He believes that this backdoor access is crucial to investigations, and without it many criminals will not be convicted.\n\nEdward Snowden said that the FBI already has the technical means to unlock Apple's devices and said, \"The global technological consensus is against the FBI.\"\n\nMcAfee founder and Libertarian Party presidential primary candidate John McAfee had publicly volunteered to decrypt the iPhone used by the San Bernardino shooters, avoiding the need for Apple to build a backdoor. He later indicated that the method he would employ, extracting the unique ID from inside the A7 processor chip, is difficult and risks permanently locking the phone, and that he was seeking publicity.\n\nIn an interview for a \"Time\" magazine cover story, Cook said that the issue is not \"privacy versus security ... it's privacy and security or privacy and safety versus security.\" Cook also said, \"[T]his is the golden age of surveillance that we live in. There is more information about all of us, so much more than ten years ago, or five years ago. It's everywhere. You are leaving digital footprints everywhere.\"\n\nIn a March 21, 2016, Apple press conference, Cook talked about the ongoing conflict with the FBI, saying, \"[W]e have a responsibility to protect your data and your privacy. We will not shrink from this responsibility.\"\n\nRon Wyden, Democratic senator for Oregon and a noted privacy and encryption advocate, questioned the FBI's honesty concerning the contents of the phone. He said in a statement, \"There are real questions about whether [the FBI] has been straight with the public on [the Apple case].\"\n\nSome families of the victims and survivors of the attack indicated they would file a brief in support of the FBI.\n\nThe National Sheriffs' Association has suggested that Apple's stance is \"putting profit over safety\" and \"has nothing to do with privacy.\" The Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, the Association of Prosecuting Attorneys, and the National Sheriffs' Association filed a brief supporting the FBI.\n\nSenator Dianne Feinstein of California, a Democrat and vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, has voiced her opposition to Apple. All candidates for the Republican nomination for the 2016 U.S. presidential election who had not dropped out of the race before February 19, 2016 supported the FBI's position, though several expressed concerns about adding backdoors to mobile phones.\n\nOn February 23, 2016, the \"Financial Times\" reported that Bill Gates, founder of Microsoft, has sided with the FBI in the case. However, Gates later said in an interview with Bloomberg News \"that doesn't state my view on this.\" He added that he thought the right balance and safeguards need to be found in the courts and in Congress, and that the debate provoked by this case is valuable.\n\nSan Bernardino Police Chief Jarrod Burguan said in an interview:\n\nManhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance, Jr., said that he wants Apple to unlock 175 iPhones that his office's Cyber-Crime Lab has been unable to access, adding, \"Apple should be directed to be able to unlock its phones when there is a court order by an independent judge proving and demonstrating that there's relevant evidence on that phone necessary for an individual case.\"\n\nFBI Director Comey, testifying before the House Judiciary Committee, compared Apple's iPhone security to a guard dog, saying, \"We're asking Apple to take the vicious guard dog away and let us pick the lock.\"\n\nApples iOS 8 software has encryption mechanisms that make it difficult for the government to get through. Apple provided no backdoor for surveillance without the company's discretion. However, Comey stated that he did not want a backdoor method of surveillance and that \"We want to use the front door, with clarity and transparency, and with clear guidance provided by law.\" He believes that special access is required in order to stop criminals such as \"terrorists and child molesters\". Many companies such as Apple would not give the U.S. access due to the policies Apple has in place on users' confidentiality.\n\nBoth 2016 Democratic presidential candidates—former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Senator Bernie Sanders—suggested some compromise should be found.\n\nU.S. Defense Secretary Ashton Carter called for Silicon Valley and the federal government to work together. \"We are squarely behind strong data security and strong encryption, no question about it,\" he said. Carter also added that he is \"not a believer in back doors.\"\n\nIn an address to the 2016 South by Southwest conference on March 11, President Barack Obama stated that while he could not comment on the specific case, \"You cannot take an absolutist view on [encryption]. If your view is strong encryption no matter what, and we can and should create black boxes, that does not strike the balance that we've lived with for 200 or 300 years. And it's fetishizing our phones above every other value. That can't be the right answer.\"\n\nOn April 13, U.S. Senators Richard Burr and Dianne Feinstein, the Republican Chair and senior Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, respectively, released draft legislation that would authorize state and federal judges to order \"any person who provides a product or method to facilitate a communication or the processing or storage of data\" to provide data in intelligible form or technical assistance in unlocking encrypted data and that any such person who distributes software or devices must ensure they are capable of complying with such an order.\n\nIn September 2016, the Associated Press, Vice Media, and Gannett (the owner of \"USA Today\") filed a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit against the FBI, seeking to compel the agency to reveal who it hired to unlock Farook's iPhone, and how much was paid. On September 30, 2017, a federal court ruled against the media organizations and granted summary judgment in the government's favor. The court ruled that the company that hacked the iPhone and the amount paid to it by the FBI were national security secrets and \"intelligence sources or methods\" that are exempt from disclosure under FOIA; the court additionally ruled that the amount paid \"reflects a confidential law enforcement technique or procedure\" that also falls under a FOIA exemption.\n\nOn August 31, 2016 Amy Hess, the FBI's Executive Assistant Director, raised concerns with the Office of Inspector General alleging there was a disagreement between units of the Operational Technology Division (OTD) of their capability to access Farook's iPhone; namely between the Cryptographic and Electronic Analysis Unit (CEAU) and the Remote Operations Unit (ROU). She also alleged that some OTD officials were indifferent to FBI leadership (herself included) giving possibly misleading testimony to Congress and in court orders that they had no such capability.\n\nUltimately, the Inspector General's March 2018 report found no evidence that the OTD had withheld knowledge of the ability to unlock Farook's iPhone at the time of Director Comey's congressional testimony of February 9 and March 1, 2016. However, the report also found that poor communication and coordination between the CEAU and ROU meant that \"not all relevant personnel had been engaged at the outset\".\n\nThe ROU Chief (named by Vice to be Eric Chuang) said he only became aware of the access problem after a February 11 meeting of the Digital Forensics and Analysis Section (DFAS) - of which the ROU is not a member. While the OTD directors were in frequent contact during the investigation, including discussions about Farook's iPhone, Asst. Dir. Stephen Richardson and the Chief of DFAS, John F. Bennett, believed at the time that a court order was their only alternative.\n\nChuang claimed the CEAU Chief didn't ask for their help due to a \"line in the sand\" against using classified security tools in domestic criminal cases. The CEAU Chief denied such a line existed and that not using classified techniques was merely a preference. Nevertheless, the perception of this line resulted in the ROU not getting involved until after John Bennett's February 11 meeting asking \"anyone\" in the bureau to help.\n\nOnce Chuang \"got the word out\", he soon learned that a trusted vendor was \"almost 90 percent of the way\" to a solution after \"many months\" of work and asked they prioritize its completion. The unnamed vendor came forward with their solution on March 16, 2016 and successfully demonstrated it to FBI leadership on March 20. The US Attorneys Office was informed the next day and they withdrew their court action against Apple on March 28.\n\nWhen asked why the ROU was not involved earlier the Chief of Technical Surveillance Section (TSS), Eric Chuang's superior, initially said it was not in his \"lane\" and it was handled exclusively by the DFAS because \"that is their mandate\". He later claimed that Farook's phone was discussed from the outset but he did not instruct his unit chiefs to contact outside vendors until after February 11. In either event, neither he nor the ROU were asked to request help from their vendors until mid-February. By the time the Attorneys Office filed their February 16 court order, the ROU had only just begun contacting its vendors.\n\nThe CEAU Chief was unable to say with certainty that the ROU had been consulted beforehand and that the February 11th meeting was a final \"mop-up\" before a court action was filed. The CEAU's search for solutions within the FBI was undocumented and was handled informally by a senior engineer that the CEAU Chief personally trusted had checked with \"everybody\".\n\nOn the other hand, it's possible that Hess' asking questions is what prompted the February 11 \"mop-up\" meeting. During the CEAU's search Hess became concerned that she wasn't getting straight answers from the OTD and that unit chiefs didn't know the capabilities of the others. The Inspector General stated further: \n\n... the CEAU Chief may not have been interested in researching all possible solutions and instead focused only on unclassified techniques that could readily be disclosed in court that OTD and its partner agencies already had in-hand.\n\nBoth Hess and Chuang stated the CEAU Chief seemed not to want to use classified techniques and appeared to have an agenda in pursuing a favorable ruling against Apple. Chuang described the CEAU Chief as \"definitely not happy\" that the they undermined his legal case against Apple and had vented his frustration with him.\n\nHess said the CEAU Chief wanted to use the case as a \"poster child\" to resolve the larger problem with encrypted devices known as the \"Going Dark challenge\". The challenge is defined by the FBI as \"changes in technology [that] hinder law enforcement's ability to exercise investigative tools and follow critical leads\". As The Los Angeles Times reported in March 2018, the FBI was unable to access data from 7,775 seized devices in their investigations. The unidentified method used to unlock Farook's phone - costing more than $1 million to obtain - quit working once Apple updated their operating system.\n\nThe Inspector General's report found that statements in the FBI's testimony before Congress were accurate but relied on assumptions that the OTD units were coordinating effectively from the beginning. They also believe the miscommunication delayed finding a technical solution to accessing Farook's iPhone. The FBI disputed this since the vendor had been working on the project independently \"for some time\". However, according to Chuang - whom described himself as a \"relationship holder\" for the vendor - they were not actively working to complete the solution and that it was moved to the \"front burner\" on his request; to which the TSS Chief agreed.\n\nIn response to the Inspector General's report, the FBI intended to add a new OTD section to consolidate resources to address the Going Dark problem and to improve coordination between units.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2708701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2708701", "title": "Faulkner Act", "text": "Faulkner Act\n\nThe Optional Municipal Charter Law or Faulkner Act (, et seq.) provides New Jersey municipalities with a variety of models of local government. This legislation is called the Faulkner Act in honor of the late Bayard H. Faulkner, former mayor of Montclair, New Jersey and chairman of the Commission on Municipal Government.\n\nThe Faulkner Act offers four basic plans (mayor–council, council–manager, small municipality, and mayor–council–administrator) and two procedures by which the voters of a municipality can adopt one of these plans. The Act provides many choices for communities with a preference for a strong executive and professional management of municipal affairs. Twenty-one percent of the municipalities in New Jersey, including the six most populous cities (Newark, Jersey City, Camden, Trenton, Paterson and Elizabeth) all govern under the provisions of the Faulkner Act. More than half of all New Jersey residents reside in municipalities with Faulkner Act charters.\n\nIn all Faulkner Act municipalities, regardless of the particular form, citizens enjoy the right of initiative and referendum, meaning that proposed ordinances can be introduced directly by the people without action by the local governing body. This right is exercised by preparing a conforming petition signed by 10% of the registered voters who turned out in the last general election in an odd-numbered year (i. the most recent General Assembly election). Once the petition is submitted, the local governing body can vote to pass the requested ordinance, and if they refuse, it is then submitted directly to the voters.\n\nThe Faulkner Act was created to provide municipalities with greater flexibility than provided in New Jersey's traditional forms of government (city, township, borough, town and village) and to expand on the reforms provided in the Walsh Act and the 1923 Municipal Manager Law.\n\nAs originally enacted in 1950, the Faulkner Act provided for three forms of government: mayor–council, council–manager, and small municipality. Within each form, letter codes designated predefined aspects of each form and its individual arrangement of options, such as partisan or nonpartisan elections, concurrent or staggered terms, all at large or a combination of ward and at large seats.\n\nIn 1981, the Faulkner Act was significantly amended. The letter codes were eliminated, and the number of varieties within each plan was greatly increased. The council–manager plan was amended to include the option of having a mayor chosen by the electorate. A new form, mayor–council–administrator, was added. Municipalities were also given greater flexibility to amend their Faulkner Act charter without having to place the entire charter on the ballot.\n\nThere are four forms available to municipalities through the Faulkner Act:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47813804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47813804", "title": "Friendship contract", "text": "Friendship contract\n\nIn the Netherlands, a friendship contract (‘\"vriendschapscontract\"’) is an agreement which regulates the consequences of a \"social relationship\" between two or more persons under family law as well as property law. Such a contract has no prescribed form. From an evidential point of view a written or notarial form is preferred. In addition, parties are in principle (see article 3:40 of the Dutch Civil Code (\"Burgerlijk Wetboek\" (BW)) free to determine the content of their agreement. For example, a tangible or intangible duty of care can be established, a power of attorney can be granted in case a party can no longer act on his own behalf, and an arrangement can be made for the event that one party obtains a good that, in whole or in part, is financed with assets of the other. In the Dutch law of persons and family law there are as of yet no legal effects attached to friendship contracts, which is also not expected to happen in the near future. The friendship contract is therefore currently governed by the general Dutch contract and property law.\n\nThe first friendship contract was concluded in the Netherlands between \"best friends\" Joost Janmaat and Christiaan Fruneaux (who do not have a love affair together). The notarised contract was executed before civil-law notary Maarten Meijer on May 7, 2015. This movement stems from the desire to introduce the institute of friendship into Dutch law. Janmaat and Fruneaux believe that friendship is playing an – increasingly – important role in society, which should also be legally recognized in certain areas of law. For example, they have in mind a lower inheritance tax rate for friends and the right not to testify against your best friend. The thought that the family is the \"only\" cornerstone of society is considered passé. Friends are, in practice, more and more on an equal par with family members and/or life partners.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26120183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26120183", "title": "German Yearbook of International Law", "text": "German Yearbook of International Law\n\nThe German Yearbook of International Law, founded in 1948 by Rudolf Laun and Hermann von Mangoldt as the Jahrbuch für Internationales Recht, is Germany's oldest yearbook in the field of public international law. The GYIL is published annually by the Walther Schücking Institute of International Law at the University of Kiel and the publisher Duncker & Humblot.\n\nThe GYIL provides a forum for scholars in international law – both inside and outside Germany – to publish new research on and analysis of current issues in international law. The journal features a ‘Forum' for which a prominent scholar of international law is invited to write a stand-alone article and a ‘Focus' section for which a group of experts are invited to write articles examining various aspects of a topic set in advance by the editors. Recent Focus sections have examined climate change (2010), regional human rights mechanisms (2009), poverty as a challenge to international law (2008) and German approaches to international law (2007). The 2011 Focus section will examine the Arctic.\n\nBeginning with Vol. 53 (2010), the ‘General Articles' section of the GYIL will be open to submissions from the entire academic community and will be independently peer-reviewed by a community of experts. Manuscripts for the ‘General Articles' section may examine a broad range of topics in international law and should be submitted to the editors by 1 September 2011 for consideration for the 2011 volume.\n\nBeginning with Vol. 52 (2009), the section ‘German Practice' has appeared, providing reports on German state practice Sources of international law#State practice with relevance for the development of international law. The ‘Book Reviews' section presents reviews of recently published works in international law and, in particular, seeks to increase international interest in German and German-language publications by publishing book reviews and review essays in English.\n\nThe GYIL publishes in English in order to reach the largest possible readership.\n\nThe Walther Schücking Institute of International Law at the University of Kiel was founded in 1914 and is the oldest university institute for public international law in Germany.\n"}
{"id": "1118116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1118116", "title": "Hul Jharkhand Party", "text": "Hul Jharkhand Party\n\nHul Jharkhand Party, a political party in India. Founded by Justin Richard on December 28, 1968, after the fragmentation of the Jharkhand Party. The party worked amongst the Santhal populations. It demanded a separate tribal-majority state and social reform. A splinter group, the Bihar Progressive Hul Jharkhand Party was later founded by Sibu Soren.\n"}
{"id": "2168588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2168588", "title": "Illegal per se", "text": "Illegal per se\n\nIn US law, the term illegal \"per se\" means that the act is inherently illegal. Thus, an act is illegal without extrinsic proof of any surrounding circumstances such as lack of \"scienter\" (knowledge) or other defenses. Acts are made illegal \"per se\" by statute, constitution or case law.\n\nMany drunk driving laws make driving with a blood alcohol content over a certain limit (such as 0.05% or 0.08%) an act which is illegal \"per se\".\n\nIn the United States, illegal \"per se\" often refers to categories of anti-competitive behavior in antitrust law conclusively presumed to be an \"unreasonable restraint on trade\" and thus anti competitive. The United States Supreme Court has, in the past, determined activities such as price fixing, geographic market division, and group boycott to be illegal \"per se\" regardless of the reasonableness of such actions. Traditionally, illegal \"per se\" anti-trust acts describe horizontal market arrangements among competitors.\n\nThe illegal \"per se\" category can trace its origins in the 1898 Supreme Court case \"Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. U.S.\", 175 U.S. 211 (1898).\n\nA number of cases have subsequently raised doubts about the validity of the illegal \"per se\" rule. Under modern Antitrust theories, the traditionally illegal \"per se\" categories create more of a presumption of unreasonableness. The court carefully narrowed the \"per se\" treatment and began issuing guidelines. Courts and agencies seeking to apply the \"per se\" rule must:\n\n"}
{"id": "570834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=570834", "title": "Indian Register", "text": "Indian Register\n\nThe Indian Register is the official record of \"Status Indians\" or \"Registered Indians\" in Canada. Status Indians have rights and benefits that are not granted to unregistered Indians, Inuit, or Métis, the chief benefits of which include the granting of reserves and of rights associated with them, an extended hunting season, a less restricted right to bear arms, an exemption from federal and provincial taxes, and more freedom in the management of gaming and tobacco franchises via less government interference and taxes.\n\nIn 1851 the colonial governments of British North America began to keep records of Indians and bands entitled to benefits under treaty. For 100 years, individual Indian agents made lists of members who belonged to each band. In 1951, the current Indian Register was established by amendment of the Indian Act, and the many band lists were combined into one.\n\nIn 1985, the Indian Act was amended again with the goal of restoring Indian status to people who had lost it through discriminatory provisions of the Act, and to their children. Over 100,000 people who had lost their status in this way have since been added to the Register.\n\nThe list is maintained by Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada. Sole authority for determining who will be registered is vested in the post of Registrar.\n\nThe discriminatory reasons for revoking status were:\n\n\nSince 1956 the Canadian federal government has issued an identity document to individuals who have status under the Indian Act. Traditionally these documents have been used by Aboriginals to cross the border between Canada and the United States.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9548785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9548785", "title": "Iranian constitutional referendum, 1989", "text": "Iranian constitutional referendum, 1989\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Iran on 28 July 1989, alongside presidential elections. Approved by 97.6% of voters, It was the first and so far only time the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran has been amended. It made several changes to articles 5, 107, 109, 111, and added article 176. It eliminated the need for the Supreme Leader (\"rahbar\") of the country to be a \"marja\" or chosen by popular acclaim, it eliminated the post of prime minister, and it created a Supreme National Security Council.\n\nOn 24 April 1989 while on his deathbed, Ayatollah Khomeini appointed a 25-man \"Council for the Revision of the Constitution\" (). The council named Ali Khamenei as Khomeini's successor as Supreme Leader of Iran and drew up several amendments to the original constitution. Since the senior mujtahid or Marja of Iran had given only lukewarm support to Khomeini's principle of , and Khamenei was not a marja, the original prerequisite that the rahbar (leader) be \"a paramount faqih\" (i.e. one of these marja) was dropped from the constitution.\n\nSome changes to the constitution introduced by the Reform Council include:\n\nThe amendments were approved by Iranian voters and became law on 28 July 1989.\n\nThis is a list of members of Constitutional Amendment Council of Iran, appointed by Ayatollah Khomeini, who reviewed and amended the Constitution of Iran in 1989:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9289827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9289827", "title": "Issued shares", "text": "Issued shares\n\nIssued shares is a term of law and finance for the number of shares of a corporation which have been allocated (allotted) and are subsequently held by shareholders. The act of creating new issued shares is called \"issuance\", \"allocation\" or \"allotment\". Allotment is simply the creation of shares and their transfer to a subscriber. After allotment, a subscriber becomes a shareholder, though usually that also requires formal entry in the share registry.\n\nThe number of shares that can be issued is limited to the total authorized shares. Issued shares are those shares which the board of directors and/or shareholders have agreed to allocate. Issued shares are the sum of outstanding shares held by shareholders; and treasury shares are shares which had been issued but have been repurchased by the corporation, and which generally have no voting rights or rights to dividends.\n\nThe issued shares of a corporation form the equity capital of the corporation, and some corporations are required by law to have a minimum value of equity capital, while others may not need any or just a nominal number. The value of the issued shares are determined at the time they are issued and the value does not change, in relation to the issuing corporation after that time.\n\nShares are most commonly issued fully paid, in which case the liability of the shareholders is limited to the amount paid on the shares; but they may also be issued partly paid, with unlimited liability, subject to guarantee, or some other form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54929916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54929916", "title": "James Dinkins", "text": "James Dinkins\n\nJames A. \"Jim\" Dinkins (born 1966) is an American law enforcement officer and business executive who was the first head of Homeland Security Investigations for US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, serving in that role from 2010 to 2014. He is currently senior vice president and director of operations of Enterprise Financial Crimes Compliance for US Bank.\n\nDinkins graduated with a bachelor's degree in criminal justice from the University of Detroit in 1988.\n\nDinkins began his career with the federal government in 1986, interning with the US Customs Service as a co-operative education program student. In 1989, he became a special agent at the US Customs San Francisco office responsible for investigating money laundering, drug and weapons smuggling, and cyber crimes. In 1996 he transferred to the Office of the Special Agent in Charge in Detroit, Michigan, where he was promoted to Assistant Special Agent in Charge.\n\nFollowing the 2002 establishment of the Department of Homeland Security and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), in 2004 Dinkins was promoted to chief of Cornerstone and Financial Investigation Programs at ICE headquarters, developing initiatives to fight financial crimes in the US. He is one of the creators of the program, which was launched in 2004 as a way for law enforcement to reach out to the financial industry to share strategic information related to financial crimes and money laundering trends. In 2006, he became Special Agent in Charge of the Baltimore field office, and became Special Agent in Charge of the Washington, DC field office 2008.\n\nIn January 2010, Dinkins was promoted to the ICE Director of Investigations, where he established and served as the first executive associate director of Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) when the unit was formed in June 2010 as a new division of the Department of Homeland Security's Immigration and Customs Enforcement. HSI was formed by merging the intelligence, domestic and international investigative divisions of ICE, and is primarily devoted to investigating illegal acts including human, arms and drug trafficking; possession of weapons of mass destruction; money laundering; and cyber crimes. As head of HSI, Dinkins supervised a 9,000+ employee organization with 200 US offices and 72 overseas locations in 47 countries, working under the Obama administration. From 2010 through 2012, HSI achieved a record number of criminal ICE arrests, with successful investigations of commercial fraud, child exploitation, human trafficking and financial crimes.\n\nIn 2012, while still serving as head of HSI, Dinkins was selected to chair the World Customs Organization's enforcement committee, which works to represent 179 Customs administrations around the world.\n\nDinkins served as head of HSI until his retirement from federal law enforcement in April 2014.\n\nAfter nearly three decades with the US federal government, in 2014, Dinkins joined Thomson Reuters Special Services business unit as vice president and general manager, developing tools for government and large businesses to access and analyze information including financial, legal and scientific data.\n\nBeginning in 2015, he served on the American Gaming Association's new Illegal Gambling Advisory Board in Washington, DC, to provide advice on illegal gambling enforcement efforts.\n\nIn 2015, Dinkins was named senior vice president and director of operations for Enterprise Financial Crimes Compliance for US Bank. The anti-money laundering division uses data science, investigators, analysts and other experts and technology to monitor, identify and report suspicious money laundering and terrorist financing activity, to help prevent the flow of money to criminal organizations around the world.\n"}
{"id": "19126479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19126479", "title": "Law Commission of India", "text": "Law Commission of India\n\nLaw Commission of India is an executive body established by an order of the Government of India. Its major function is to work for legal reform. Its membership primarily comprises legal experts, who are entrusted a mandate by the Government. The Commission is established for a fixed tenure and works as an advisory body to the Ministry of Law and Justice\n\nThe first Law Commission was established during the British Raj era in 1834 by the \"Charter Act of 1833\". After that, three more Commissions were established in pre-independent India. The first Law Commission of independent India was established in 1955 for a three-year term. Since then, twenty more Commissions have been established. The 20th Law Commission was established in 2013 under the Chairmanship of Supreme Court Judge, D.K Jain. Its tenure was fixed till 2015. The present Law Commission was established in 2015, and has tenure to 2018. The terms of reference of the Law Commission include the review and repeal of obsolete laws, the examination of existing laws & the revision of central Acts of general importance. In November 2013, the Centre appointed former Chief Justice of Delhi High Court Justice Ajit Prakash Shah as the New chairman of the 20th Law Commission of India in place of D.K Jain who has taken over as president National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Shah has a three-year tenure and has been saddled with a wide terms of reference including one to examine existing laws from the gender equality perspective and suggest necessary amendments.\n\nJustice Balbir Singh Chauhan, a former judge of the Supreme Court was appointed Chairman of the 21st Law Commission on 10 March. This post was lying vacant since September 2015. 66-year old Justice Chauhan is currently heading the Cauvery River Water Disputes Tribunal. One of the key issues pending before the Law Commission is a call on amending the Indian Penal Code (IPC) amid allegations of abuse and arbitrary use of the law.\n\nThe origin of the first Law Commission of India lies in the diverse and often conflicting laws prevailing in the local regions and those administered by the East India Company, which was granted Royal Charters and also conferred powers by the various Indian rulers to administer and oversee the conduct of the inhabitants in the local areas where the Company exercised control. During this period of administration by the Company, two sets of laws operated in the areas; one which applied to and in relation to British citizens and the second which applied to the local inhabitants and aliens. This was considered as a major stumbling block for proper administration by the British Government during the times which is now known as the British Raj. In order to improve the law and order situation and also to ensure uniformity of legal administration, various options were looked for. Until then the British Government had been passing various enactments to deal with particular situations, such as the Prohibition of Sati in (1829) by Lord William Bentinck under the influence of Raja Ram Mohan Roy. However it was for the first time in (1833) that the idea to establish a Law Commission for a comprehensive examination of the existing legal system prevailing in the British administered areas and its overhaul was instituted.\n\nThe First Law Commission was established in 1834 by the British Government under the Chairmanship of Lord Macaulay. It suggested various enactments to the British Government, most of which were passed and enacted and are still in force in India. Few of the most important recommendations made by this First Law Commission were those on, \"Indian Penal Code\" (first submitted in 1837 but enacted in 1860 and still in force), \"Criminal Procedure Code\" (enacted in 1898, repealed and succeeded by the \"Criminal Procedure Code of 1973\"), etc. Thereafter three more Law Commissions were established which made a number of other recommendations the \"Indian Evidence Act\" (1872) and \"Indian Contract Act\" (1872), etc. being some of the significant ones. The contribution of these Law Commissions can be enumerated as under;\n\nA Two-member Viceroy's Executive Council (composed of Sir Henry Maine and Sir James Fitzjames Stephen) also worked on the side-lines of the Law Commissions and ensured the passage of the following noteworthy laws;\nThe tradition of pursuing law reform through the medium of a Law Commission was continued in post-independent India. The first law commission in Independent India was established in 1955 and since then twenty more law commissions have been established. Each of these Commissions have been chaired by a prominent legal personality in India and has made a significant contribution to the legal diaspora of India. The contribution of each of these Commissions has been enumerated below.\n\nThe first Law Commission of independent India was established in 1955. The Chairman of this Commission was Mr. M. C. Setalvad, who was also the First Attorney General of India. The term of this Commission was established as three years (which by convention has been followed till date) and this Commission submitted its last report on 16 September 1958. The reports submitted by the First Law Commission of India are as under;\n\nThe Second Law Commission was established in 1958 under the Chairmanship of Justice T. V. Venkatarama Aiyar. It stayed in office till 1961. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Third Law Commission was established in 1961 under the Chairmanship of Justice J. L. Kapur. It stayed in office till 1964. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Fourth Law Commission was established in 1964 and was again under the Chairmanship of Justice J. L. Kapur. It stayed in office till 1968. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Fifth Law Commission was established in 1968 under the Chairmanship of Mr. K. V. K. Sundaram. It stayed in office till 1971. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Sixth Law Commission was established in 1971 under the Chairmanship of Justice P. B. Gajendragadkar. It stayed in office till 1974. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Seventh Law Commission was established in 1974 again under the Chairmanship of Justice P. B. Gajendragadkar. It stayed in office till 1977. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Eighth Law Commission was established in 1977 under the Chairmanship of Justice H. R. Khanna. It stayed in office till 1979. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Ninth Law Commission was established in 1979 under the Chairmanship of Justice P. V. Dixit. It stayed in office till 1980. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Tenth Law Commission was established in 1981 under the Chairmanship of Justice K. K. Mathew. It stayed in office till 1985. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Eleventh Law Commission was established in 1985 under the Chairmanship of Justice D. A. Desai. It stayed in office till 1988. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Twelfth Law Commission was established in 1988 under the Chairmanship of Justice Manharlal Pranlal Thakkar. It stayed in office till 1989. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Thirteenth Law Commission was established in 1991 under the Chairmanship of Justice K. N. Singh. It stayed in office till 1994. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Fourteenth Law Commission was established in 1995 under the Chairmanship of Justice K. Jayachandra Reddy. It stayed in office till 1997. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Fifteenth Law Commission was established in 1997 under the Chairmanship of Justice B. P. Jeevan Reddy. It stayed in office till 2000. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Sixteenth Law Commission was established in 2000. For the period till 2001 Justice B. P. Jeevan Reddy continued as the Chairman of the Commission while in the period between 2002 and 2003 the Commission worked under the Chairmanship of Justice M. Jagannadha Rao. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Seventeenth Law Commission was established in 2003 and continued to be under the Chairmanship of Justice M. Jagannadha Rao. It stayed in office till 2006. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe Eighteenth Law Commission of India was established on 1 September 2006 and continued till 31 August 2009. Justice M. Jagannadha Rao continued to serve as the Chairman of the Commission until 28 May 2007 on which date Justice A. R. Lakshmanan was appointed as the Chairman of the Commission. It presented the following reports;\n\nThe nineteenth Law Commission of India's Chairman was Chairman Mr. Justice P. V. Reddi, 2009-2012 of 19th Law Comiission. \n\nThe Twentieth Law Commission of India's Chairman were Justice D. K. Jain from January 2013 to October 2013 and Justice A. P. Shah from November 2013 to August 2015. The Terms of Reference of the Twentieth Law Commission were as follows:-\nA. Review/Repeal of obsolete laws:\n(i) Identify laws which are no longer needed or relevant and can be immediately repealed. \n(ii) Identify laws which are not in harmony with the existing climate of economic liberalization and need change.\n(iii) Identify laws which otherwise require changes or amendments and to make suggestions for their amendment. \n(iv) Consider in a wider perspective the suggestions for revision/amendment given by Expert Groups in various Ministries/Departments with a view to coordinating and harmonising them. \n(v) Consider references made to it by Ministries/ Departments in respect of legislation having bearing on the working of more than one Ministry/ Department.\n(vi) Suggest suitable measures for quick redressal of citizens grievances, in the field of law. \nB. Law and Poverty\n(i) Examine the Laws which affect the poor and carry out post-audit for socio-economic legislations.\n(ii) Take all such measures as may be necessary to harness law and the legal process in the service of the poor. \nC. Keep under review the system of judicial administration to ensure that it is responsive to the reasonable demands of the times and in particular to secure:\n(i) elimination of delays, speedy clearance of arrears and reduction in costs so as to secure quick and economical disposal of cases without affecting the cardinal principle that decisions should be just and fair. \n(ii) simplification of procedure to reduce and eliminate technicalities and devices for delay so that it operates not as an end in itself but as a means of achieving justice. \n(iii) improvement of standards of all concerned with the administration of justice. \nD. Examine the existing laws in the light of Directive Principles of State Policy and to suggest ways of improvement and reform and also to suggest such legislations as might be necessary to implement the Directive Principles and to attain the objectives set out in the Preamble to the Constitution. \nE. Examine the existing laws with a view for promoting gender equality and suggesting amendments thereto.\nF. Revise the Central Acts of general importance so as to simplify them and to remove anomalies, ambiguities and inequities. \nG. Recommend to the Government measure for making the statute book up to date by repealing obsolete laws and enactments or parts thereof which have outlived their utility.\nH. Consider and to convey to the Government its views on any subject relating to law and judicial administration that may be specifically referred to it by the Government through Ministry of Law and Justice (Department of Legal Affairs).\nI. Consider the requests for providing research to any foreign countries as may be referred to it by the Government through Ministry of Law & Justice (Department of Legal Affairs).\nJ. Examine the impact of globalization on food security, unemployment and recommend measures for the protection of the interests of the marginalized.\n\nIn 2015, the Law Ministry had forwarded a list of 48 former judges of high courts and Supreme Court to the Prime Minister’s Office to select the next Law Commission Chairperson. The term of the 20th Law Commission ended on August 30 last year and the Union Cabinet approved creation of the 21st Law Commission on September 9. The Law Ministry brought out a notification to create the 21st law panel on September 14 last.\n\nOne of the key issues pending before the law panel is a call on amending the Indian Penal Code amid allegations of abuse and arbitrary use of the law. The Law Ministry had urged the Commission to study the usage of the provisions of Section 124A (Sedition) of the IPC.\n\nFormer Supreme Court judge Balbir Singh Chauhan was appointed Chairman of the 21st Law Commission. Mr. Justice Ravi R. Tripathi, retired judge of the Gujarat High Court was appointed as Full-time Member.\n\nOn 10 June 2016, Mr. Satya Pal Jain, Additional Solicitor General of India was appointed as Part-time Member of the Commission.\n\nThe Law Commission works in close co-ordination and under the general instruction of Ministry of Law and Justice. It generally acts as the initiation point for law reform in the country. Internally, the Law Commission works in a research-oriented manner. Employing a number of research analysts (and even law students from 2007), the Commission works upon the assigned agenda and primarily comes up with research based reports, often conclusive and recommendatory. The permanent members of the Commission generally are responsible for framing the exact topic and reference to work upon and often takes the services of eminent law experts and jurists who are familiar with the matter under review. These experts may either work part-time with the Commission or may have been requested to contribute to specific reports or issues under review.\n\nAccording to the Commission's website, the Commission's regular staff consists of about a dozen research personnel of different ranks and varied experiences with a small group of secretarial staff looks after the administration side of the Commission's operations and the internal functioning of the Commission can be described as a process with the following stages;\n\nOnce the Report is submitted to the Ministry of Law and Justice, the task of the Commission ends unless it is required to rework upon identified areas of provide clarifications by the Government on the report submitted. Upon receipt of the Report, it is the responsible for follow-up action on the recommendations made by the Commission in the Report. Generally the Ministry of Law and Justice forwards the Report with its remarks to other relevant Ministries in the Government of India and seeks from them their opinion on the relevance of the recommendation and finalizes with them the manner of implemendation of these recommendations. When the proposals are cleared by the various Ministries and approved by the Cabinet, the Ministry of Law and Justice goes for drafting of the implementing legislation or follows the draft submitted by the Law Commission (which usually is the case) and presents the same for approval before the Parliament.\n\nThe Law Commission of India, though an ad hoc body, has been key to law reform in India. Its role has been both advisory and critical of the government's policies. The Supreme Court of India and academia have recognized the commission as pioneering and prospective. In a number of decisions, the Supreme Court has referred to the work done by the commission and followed its recommendations. The fact that the chairman of the commission is generally a retired judge of the Supreme Court has helped the prominence of the commission.\n\nThe recommendations of the commission are not binding on the government. \"They are recommendations. They may be accepted or rejected. Action on the said recommendations depends on the ministries/departments, which are concerned with the subject matter of the recommendations.\" This has resulted in a number of important and critical recommendations not being implemented. The commission, however, has continued to work upon its assigned tasks.\n\nThe power vested in the commission to \"suo motu\" take up matters for discussion and submit recommendations has also worked well to the advantage of India's legal system. The history of the commission is replete with such recommendations which have been made in the wake of the hour and where the law has needed change. Further, the commission has been often returned to review its earlier reports in the wake of changed scenarios and the aptness of law in such situations. Euthanasia and related issues, in particular, has been one such area where the commission has been relook the situation at least three times, with the latest being its 196th report on the topic.\n\nBesides the Law Ministry, the commission has also been requested to work upon specific issues and submit its views by the Supreme Court on various occasions. The latest in regard has been the 205th report of the commission which has been prepared in view of the Supreme Court's request for assistance in determination of \"certain legal issues relating to child marriage, and the different ages at which a person is defined as a child in different laws.\" The report stirred a public debate in India for recommending \"inter alia\", a reduction in marriage age of boys to be at par with girls at 18, instead of the long continuing 21 and 18 respectively.\n\nWith all its past and present works being continuously provided on the internet, the commission has also provided a firm assistance to legal research in the country. The fact that a number of its reports have been taken receptively by the various ministries and have been worked upon to change the legal scenario, is itself an indicator sufficient enough of the role of the commission in furtherance of law reform in India.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50301396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50301396", "title": "Legal Tools", "text": "Legal Tools\n\nThe Legal Tools are the leading online database on international criminal law. The database provides legal practitioners and researchers with open access information on the core crimes of international law (genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and the crime of aggression). Being a tool of computer-assisted legal research, the database provides access to all relevant case law and legislation (statutes, preparatory works, key treaties) from both international and national jurisdictions as well as academic writings. All resources are stored under persistent URLs.\n\nThe \"Legal Tools Project\" (\"LTP\") is associated with the International Criminal Court. It currently has partners from fourteen countries on all continents. The content of the database is mainly provided by academic institutions and non-governmental organizations.\n\nThe International Criminal Court links in its publicised decisions to the database. As an example, the judgement of the trial chamber in the case of Germain Katanga included 538 hyperlinks.\n\nAs of April 2016, the database contains over 103.000 documents. The content is arranged in the following collections:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41267261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41267261", "title": "Legal cost finance", "text": "Legal cost finance\n\nLegal cost finance (or legal cost credit) is an alternative funding solution to traditional legal financing (or litigation funding in United Kingdom).\n\nUnlike litigation funding, which is limited to contentious legal cases and claims a stake in the proceeds of a case outcome, legal cost finance is a funding alternative that offers consumers payment plans (on the basis of credit facilities) to cover legal costs of both contentious and non-contentious matters. Effectively, legal cost finance is a specialised financing solution that spreads the cost of legal services over an extended period and enables consumers to repay their legal bills via instalments.\n\nFor lawyers, legal cost finance provides the assurance of on-time bill payment and minimisation of disputes over legal costs. A third-party arranger (specialised broker) installs the payment plan facility and settles legal costs on the client's behalf using the credit funds (usually held in escrow accounts). If a dispute over a legal bill arises, the broker can 'quarantine' the dispute to prevent stalling of the legal matter. That is, the disputed bill is placed in abeyance until a later date (usually after completion of the legal case) whilst the lawyer continues to be paid from the credit facility. The disputed bill is later revisited in the context of the case outcome – normally the client will forfeit the dispute in the event of a successful case result, and vice versa (i.e. the lawyer will forfeit the dispute in the event of an unsuccessful case outcome).\n\nLegal cost finance can function as a cost-neutral credit facility. That is, the charges associated with legal cost finance (arrangement fees and interest) can be absorbed by the lawyer (directly or by discounts on legal fees), enabling the client to effectively pay legal bills without incurring additional costs. Lawyers are usually forthcoming about covering client's charges associated with legal cost finance on the client's behalf in exchange for the payment assurances they receive from the broker over their bills.\n\nFor consumers of legal services, legal cost finance is an alternative to the payment of significant up-front costs to lawyers on the basis of a retainer agreement. Effectively, therefore, LCF makes legal services more affordable.\n\nConsumers can apply for LCF solely on the basis of their credit history because the specialised loans are provided on an unsecured basis. However, in certain large legal matters security over loans will be required.\n\nLCF primarily relies on a report from the acting lawyer stating the merits of the case, which is assessed by the broker. This is designed to protect consumers from potentially irresponsible advice and to prevent the court system from cluttering by unmeritorious cases.\n\nLCF was first launched in the United Kingdom by an independent law broker, Dr Yuri Rapoport in October 2013.\n"}
{"id": "39791025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39791025", "title": "List of treaties of the Confederate States of America", "text": "List of treaties of the Confederate States of America\n\nThis is a list of treaties of the Confederate States of America.\n\nThe Confederate States of America (CSA) was not officially recognized as a sovereign state by any foreign nation. Thus, the CSA did not enter into any bilateral or multilateral treaties with other states.\n\nHowever, in 1861, the CSA authorized Albert Pike—the CSA \"Commissioner to all the Indian Tribes West of Arkansas and South of Kansas\"—to negotiate and conclude treaties with native Indian tribes resident in Indian Territory. Pike concluded nine treaties with Indian tribes between July and October 1861. Each of the nine treaties were ratified by the CSA Congress prior to the end of the year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48802305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48802305", "title": "Military order (instruction)", "text": "Military order (instruction)\n\nA military command or order is a binding instruction given by a senior rank to a junior rank in a military context. Not all senior ranks in all military have the right to give an order to all lower ranks. A general order is a published directive by an officer in a command post, which is binding on all ranks under his command, and intended to enforce a policy or procedure.\n\nIn the US military an operations order is a plan format meant which is intended to assist subordinate units with the conduct of military operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "53479950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53479950", "title": "Monroe v Hopkins", "text": "Monroe v Hopkins\n\nMonroe v Hopkins was a 2017 libel case in the High Court of England and Wales. It was brought by the food writer and activist Jack Monroe against the columnist Katie Hopkins after Hopkins falsely alleged that Monroe supported vandalism of a war memorial. Hopkins was ordered to pay hundreds of thousands of pounds in damage and legal fees.\n\nDuring an anti-austerity protest in 2015, protesters spraypainted \"fuck Tory scum\" on the Monument to the Women of World War II in Whitehall, London. On the social media site Twitter, the political writer Laurie Penny said she had no problem with the vandalism. Katie Hopkins, a rightwing columnist, reacted negatively, suggesting that Penny be sent to join Islamic State. Both writers' comments received national media coverage. \n\nOn 18 May, a few days later, Hopkins tweeted to the food writer Jack Monroe: \"Scrawled on any war memorials recently?\" Monroe responded that they had never vandalised a war memorial and had family members in the armed forces. Hopkins responded in a tweet asking someone to explain the difference between Penny (an \"irritant\") and Monroe (\"social anthrax\").\n\nMonroe asked for a retraction via Twitter and was blocked by Hopkins. Monroe asked Hopkins to make a public apology and give £5,000 to \"migrant rescue\" as a settlement to prevent the matter going to court.\n\nThe decision by Mr Justice Warby, given on 10 March 2017, discusses the difficulty of applying English libel law to new media platforms like Twitter, and contains an extended discussion on how Twitter functions. It determined that the two tweets sent by Hopkins were defamatory to Monroe (according to the Defamation Act 2013) and were the source of \"serious harm\", a prerequisite for demonstrating libel. The court assessed the damage to Monroe at £24,000—£16,000 for the first tweet, and £8,000 for the second. Hopkins was also ordered to pay costs, estimated at over £300,000.<ref name=\"Guardian15/3/2017\"></ref>\n\nSome days after the decision, Hopkins, who did not appear in court, stated that she was \"very likely\" to appeal against the ruling, on the grounds that no evidence of harm had been produced in the court. About two and a half weeks after the judgment Hopkins was told she could not appeal; Warby said Hopkins' appeal would not have \"a real prospect of success\" in his view.\n\nA week after the verdict, Monroe said they bore \"no ill will\" towards Hopkins: \"Although what she said about me was wrong and the last two years have been a grim process, I would happily sit down and talk as adults. I just think the world is a bit better when you are willing to give people chances.\" Monroe said they hope the case will set a precedent and improve Twitter.\n\nHopkins sold her Exeter home in March 2018 to pay the debts arising from the case. She applied for an individual voluntary arrangement in May 2018. Monroe said of the news: \"My offer of a cup of tea still stands if she wants to talk about it ... Lots of people are celebrating but I’m not. It's a sad, lonely sort of anticlimax. It’s really crap and I feel really bad it’s all ended up like this. I thought she’d just say sorry.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "31136575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31136575", "title": "NCAA March Madness (TV program)", "text": "NCAA March Madness (TV program)\n\nNCAA March Madness is the branding used for coverage of the NCAA Division I Men's Basketball Tournament that is jointly produced by CBS Sports, the sports division of the CBS television network, and Turner Sports, the sports division of the Turner Broadcasting System in the United States. Through the agreement between CBS and Turner, which began with the 2011 tournament, games are televised on CBS, TNT, TBS and truTV. CBS Sports Network has re-aired games from all networks.\n\nInitially, CBS continued to provide coverage during most rounds, with the three Turner channels covering much of the early rounds up to the Sweet Sixteen. Starting in 2016, the regional finals, Final Four and national championship game began to alternate between CBS and TBS. TBS holds the rights to the final two rounds in even numbered years, with CBS getting the games in odd numbered years.\n\nThis joint tournament coverage should be distinguished from CBS's regular-season coverage, which it produces independently through its sports division. Turner does not currently cover regular-season college basketball games. Games broadcast on all four networks use a variation of the longtime \"CBS College Basketball\" theme music.\n\nOn April 22, 2010, the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) reached a 14-year agreement, worth US$10.8 billion, with CBS and the Turner Broadcasting System to receive joint broadcast rights to the Division I men's college basketball tournament. This came after speculation that ESPN would try to obtain the rights to future tournament games. The NCAA took advantage of an opt-out clause in its 1999 deal with CBS (which ran through 2013, even though the NCAA had the option of ending the agreement after the 2010 championship) to announce its intention to sign a new contract with CBS and Turner Sports, a division of Time Warner (which, incidentally, jointly owns The CW with the CBS television network's corporate parent CBS Corporation). The new contract came amid serious consideration by the NCAA of expanding the tournament to 68 teams.\n\nThe agreement, which runs through 2032 (extended from 2024 in 2016), stipulates that all games are available nationally. All First Four games air on truTV. During the first and second rounds, a featured game in each time \"window\" is broadcast terrestrially on CBS, while all other games are shown on TBS, TNT or TruTV. Sweet 16 (regional semifinal) and Elite 8 (regional finals) games are split among CBS and TBS. In 2014 and 2015, Turner channels had exclusive rights to the Final Four (with standard coverage airing on TBS), and CBS broadcast the championship game. Since 2016, rights to the Final Four and championship game alternate between Turner and CBS; the 2016 tournament marked the first time that the national championship game was not broadcast on over-the-air television.\n\nThe same number of \"windows\" are provided to CBS as before, although unlike with the previous schedule where all games in a window started within 10 minutes of each other, resulting in the possibility of multiple close games ending at once, the start times of games are staggered, with action lasting later in the night and fewer simultaneous games than in the previous format. As a result of the new deal, Mega March Madness, a pay-per-view out-of-market sports package covering games in the tournament, was discontinued.\n\n\"March Madness On Demand\" (now called \"March Madness Live\") remained unchanged, with Turner Interactive taking over management of both that service and NCAA.com at the start of 2011. The contract was expected to be signed after a review by the NCAA Board of Directors. In 2012, the service was changed; only games televised by CBS are available for free. All other games are available to authenticated subscribers to the channels on participating television providers. The 2018 tournament, with TBS televising the national semifinals and final, is the first in which those particular games are subject to authentication restrictions.\n\nThe CBS-Turner coverage formally begins with \"The Selection Show\"—in which the teams participating in the tournament are announced, which follows CBS's coverage of the final game on Selection Sunday. During the tournament itself, truTV broadcasts pre-game coverage, \"Infiniti NCAA Tip-Off\", while TBS and TruTV also air the post-game show \"Inside March Madness\". CBS also produces coverage of the Reese's College All-Star Game (held on the afternoon of the Final Four at its venue), and the Division II championship game, which are both aired as part of the \"March Madness\" package.\n\nIn 2016, CBS extended the selection show to a two-hour format; however, the new special was criticized by viewers for being too padded, while the full bracket was leaked shortly into the broadcast. In 2017, the selection show was shortened to a 90-minute format. Beginning with 2018, the selection show will return to a two-hour format, but the special aired on TBS instead, marking the first time since 1982 that the official bracket unveiling has not aired on CBS. The Selection Show will now alternate between TBS and CBS with TBS airing the Selection Show in even numbered years, with CBS airing the Selection Show in odd numbered years.\n\nOn April 16, 2016, the contract was extended to 2032 in an $8.8 billion deal. The current broadcasting arrangements, including alternating broadcasts of the semi-finals and final, will remain in force.\n\nAdditionally, for 2014, truTV and TNT aired special \"Teamcast\" coverage of the Final Four alongside TBS's conventional coverage, which featured commentators and other guests representing the schools in each game. While the consortium planned to tap local radio announcers from each team for the teamcasts, the majority refused due to commitments in calling the games for their local radio networks. However, Turner Sports' senior vice president of production, Craig Barry, did expect such difficulties, and planned accordingly with the possibility of using talent from outlets associated with the team, general region, or their conference (such as regional networks). The Teamcast feeds returned for the 2015 tournament, now branded as \"Team Stream powered by Bleacher Report\". For 2016, they were also used on the National Championship game.\n\nAs CBS prefers having a singular broadcast feed, the Team Stream feature will not be used during any year that CBS holds the rights for the Final Four.\n\nPrior to 2011, Turner Sports' best known association with college basketball perhaps occurred on December 11, 1982, when TBS (with the aid of more than 100 independent network affiliates and stations) broadcast a contest between Virginia and Georgetown (led by Ralph Sampson and Patrick Ewing respectively). The game in question (in which TBS paid approximately US$600,000 for the broadcasting rights) was called by Skip Caray and Abe Lemons.\n\nBeginning in 2012, TruTV also began to air the preseason Coaches vs. Cancer Classic as part of a separate deal between Turner Sports and the National Association of Basketball Coaches.\n\nThe same year that the CBS-Turner consortium took over, ESPN International acquired rights to the tournament for broadcast outside of the United States for networks such as TSN in Canada.\n\nWhile most of the coverage is simulcast from the main U.S. feeds, coverage of the Final Four and national championship game uses a separate world feed produced by the \"ESPN College Basketball\" staff; in 2013, the Final Four broadcasts on ESPN International were called by ESPN's lead commentators Dan Shulman and Dick Vitale (alternatively joined by Brad Nessler for the second semi-final game).\n\nCBS and Turner pool their resources for the tournament. While CBS's Jim Nantz remains the lead voice for the tournament, CBS's analysts are joined by analysts from NBA TV and TNT. Turner also provides play-by-play man Brian Anderson, who calls baseball for TBS and formerly did the same with lead NBA voice Marv Albert until he ended his association with CBS. (TNT's #2 NBA voice, Kevin Harlan, is already employed by CBS and thus does not require special arrangement to appear.)\n\nCoverage originates from the CBS Broadcast Center in New York City, and the Turner Sports studio in Atlanta, where many of the studio shows for the latter division's coverage of the National Basketball Association and Major League Baseball emanate from.<ref name=\"CBS/Turner talent\"></ref>\n\nCBS's college basketball studio host Greg Gumbel and \"Inside the NBA\" host Ernie Johnson, Jr. split hosting duties in the New York studio while Turner Sports's Casey Stern hosts in the Atlanta studio. Johnson's colleagues on \"Inside the NBA\", Charles Barkley and Kenny Smith, join CBS analyst Clark Kellogg in the studio in New York City while Stern is joined by NBA TV’s Steve Smith, CBS Sports Network’s Wally Szczerbiak, and CBS's Seth Davis in Atlanta.\nDuring the first five years of the TV deal, all games used Turner Sports graphics. Games on CBS simply used the CBS logo on Turner's graphics package, including the Final Four and National Championship Game.\nWith CBS Sports unveiling a new graphics package at Super Bowl 50 in February 2016, the new CBS graphics were used for March Madness as well. Despite this being the first year that the Final Four and National Championship aired on TBS (as part of an every-other-year arrangement), the 2016 CBS graphics are now used for all games, including those on TBS, TNT and TruTV. However, the games use a slightly different version of the scoreboard that has the network logo in the middle, and in black, as opposed to the usual white logo on the left. For TBS/TNT/TruTV games, the network logo simply replaces the CBS eye logo.\n\nThis tournament version of the scoreboard is anchored to the edges of the screen with shadows, which light up in team colors after a made basket, an effect not seen on CBS's graphics anywhere else.\n\nAs previously mentioned, all four networks use a variation of the \"CBS College Basketball Theme\" during the tournament. Although CBS uses this arrangement for the tournament, they still use the arrangement that has been in use since 2004 during its regular season coverage.\n\nDuring all intros and outros into commercial breaks in the 2014 coverage, Spanish coverage Galavision used \"Fiesta\" by Chilean Singer Denise Rosenthal, all broadcasters used \"Shot At The Night\" by The Killers as the theme/bumper music.\n\nDuring select intros and into commercial breaks in the 2016 coverage, all broadcasters used \"Turn Up\" by The Heavy as the bumper music.\n\nFor the 2017 tournament, all broadcasts used Something Just Like This by American EDM group The Chainsmokers and British group Coldplay, as its bumper music.\n\n"}
{"id": "9401305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9401305", "title": "Nixon v. Fitzgerald", "text": "Nixon v. Fitzgerald\n\nNixon v. Fitzgerald, 457 U.S. 731 (1982), was a Supreme Court of the United States court case that dealt with immunity from suit of government officials performing discretionary functions when their action did not violate clearly established law.\n\nA. Ernest Fitzgerald filed a lawsuit against government officials claiming that he lost his position as a contractor with the United States Air Force because of testimony made before Congress in 1968. Among the people listed in the lawsuit was former President Richard Nixon. Nixon argued that a president cannot be sued for actions taken while in office. The trial and appellate court rejected the President's claim of immunity and the case went to the Supreme Court.\n\nIn a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court ruled that the President is entitled to absolute immunity from liability for civil damages based on his official acts. The court emphasized that the President is not immune from \"criminal\" charges stemming from his official (or unofficial) acts while in office. \n\nThe court noted that a grant of absolute immunity to the President would not leave the President with unfettered power. The Court stated that there were formal and informal checks on presidential action that did not apply with equal force to other executive officials. The court observed that the President was subjected to constant scrutiny by the press. It noted that vigilant oversight by Congress would also serve to deter presidential abuses of office, as well as to make credible the threat of impeachment. The court determined that other incentives to avoid misconduct existed, including a desire to earn reelection, the need to maintain prestige as an element of presidential influence, and a President's traditional concern for his historical stature.\n\nThis decision was clarified by \"Clinton v. Jones\", in which the Court held that a President is subject to civil suits for actions committed \"before\" he assumes the presidency.\n\n"}
{"id": "16995900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16995900", "title": "Paraguayan nationality law", "text": "Paraguayan nationality law\n\nParaguayan nationality law is based on the principle of Jus soli. The nationality law is based on the Chapter 3 of the Paraguayan Constitution of 1992.\n\nAny person born in Paraguay acquires Paraguayan citizenship at birth. The only exception applies to children of persons in the service of a foreign government (like foreign diplomats).\n\nThough based for the most part on the principle of Jus soli, Paraguayan law authorizes the acquisition of Paraguayan citizenship by descent (jus sanguinis) in two cases:\n\nForeigners may apply for Paraguayan citizenship if they meet the following criteria:\n\nThe two possible ways in which a Paraguayan may lose citizenship are by voluntarily obtaining a foreign citizenship and renouncing Paraguayan citizenship; or, in the case of naturalized Paraguayan citizens, living outside of Paraguay for more than three years.\n\n"}
{"id": "811425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=811425", "title": "Peacefire", "text": "Peacefire\n\nPeacefire is a U.S.-based website, with a registered address in Bellevue, Washington, dedicated to \"preserving First Amendment rights for Internet users, particularly those younger than 18\". It was founded in August 1996 by Bennett Haselton, who still runs it. The site's motto is, \"You'll understand when you're younger.\"\n\nPeacefire is primarily concerned with free speech rights and internet censorship, and providing information to the public about this. The authors on the site have been opponents of web content filtering and content-control software, which they refer to as \"censorware\". They have offered information and tools for defeating several common web filters, which has been controversial.\n\nFrom the website's self-description in 2007:\n\nThe site has conducted long battles against the most commonly used filter programs, including, most famously, Net Nanny, CyberPatrol, and Bess. \"In particular, Peacefire has demonstrated that the filter programs suppress political speech and filter preferentially for corporate and conservative causes. In other cases, Peacefire has presented evidence that several filtering programs block some websites without having a human being review those sites first, despite the filtering companies' claims to the contrary. However, Peacefire is not usually active against filters that act in a more neutral way.\n\nAlong with publishing ways of bypassing these programs, Peacefire publishes criticism of them and information about their practices, such as SurfWatch blocking gay and lesbian websites and then unblocking them.\n\nOne common test that Peacefire runs is to create web pages filled with content clipped from news items. In particular, they will take quotes from conservative politicians that seem politically sensitive. They will then submit the site to a filter and see if it gets blocked. They will then point out that the content deemed \"inappropriate\" on their pages was, in fact, \"appropriate\" when coming from a corporate (or conservative blog) site. They also routinely search out sites of liberal and progressive content to see if they are blocked. They then compile a report to point out how the said software is discriminatory and restrictive of free speech/free access in what it censors. They offer these reports to the software makers and later follow up to see if any corrective measures have been taken.\n\nThe site is also involved in alerting the online community of efforts to pass laws restricting content to websites. Peacefire's own website is often blocked, either in part or whole, by filtering software, and the organization has both sued and been threatened with lawsuits in civil court in the United States. Anyone of any age can become a member by signing up for the site's low-volume, announcement-only electronic mailing list.\n"}
{"id": "20731151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20731151", "title": "Phillip E. Areeda", "text": "Phillip E. Areeda\n\nPhillip Elias Areeda (January 28, 1930 – December 24, 1995) was an American lawyer and legal scholar. He was a professor at Harvard Law School and an expert on antitrust law.\n\nBorn in Detroit, Michigan of Lebanese ancestry, he received his law degree from the Harvard Law School in 1954, where he was an editor of the \"Harvard Law Review\". In July 1956 he was appointed Special Assistant in the White House Office, and on November 13, 1958, he was appointed Assistant Special Counsel to the President. As Assistant Special Counsel, he helped draft and research White House staff studies dealing with economic and legal matters. Areeda continued in these duties until the end of the Eisenhower Administration. In 1961 he accepted a position on the Harvard Law School faculty, and published a book, \"Antitrust Analysis\", in 1967. In the autumn of 1974 and winter of 1975, he briefly served as a White House Counsel in the Ford Administration.\n\nAreeda was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1983. He died of leukemia in 1995 in Cambridge, Massachusetts aged 65. A building at Harvard Law, Areeda Hall, is named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "35431536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35431536", "title": "Promissory Oaths Act 1871", "text": "Promissory Oaths Act 1871\n\nThe Promissory Oaths Act 1871 (34 & 35 Vict c 48) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nIt was passed with a view to the revision of the statute law, and particularly to the preparation of the revised edition of the statutes then in progress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47916790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47916790", "title": "Punjab Legal Services Authority", "text": "Punjab Legal Services Authority\n\nThe Punjab Legal Services Authority is a statutory organization in Punjab State, India, founded in 1998 to provide legal aid in the state.\n"}
{"id": "1476908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1476908", "title": "Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs", "text": "Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs\n\nThe Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs of 1961 is an international treaty to prohibit production and supply of specific (nominally narcotic) drugs and of drugs with similar effects except under licence for specific purposes, such as medical treatment and research. As noted below, its major effects included updating the Paris Convention of 13 July 1931 to include the vast number of synthetic opioids invented in the intervening thirty years and a mechanism for more easily including new ones. From 1931 to 1961, most of the families of synthetic opioids had been developed, including drugs related to methadone, pethidine (meperidine/Demerol), morphinans and dextromoramide (Palfium, Palphium, Jetrium, Dimorlin, marketed solely in the Netherlands). Research on fentanyls and piritramide (R-3365, Pirium, Dipidolor, Piridolan, among others) was also nearing fruition at that point.\n\nEarlier treaties had only controlled opium, coca, and derivatives such as morphine, heroin and cocaine. The Single Convention, adopted in 1961, consolidated those treaties and broadened their scope to include cannabis and drugs whose effects are similar to those of the drugs specified. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs and the World Health Organization were empowered to add, remove, and transfer drugs among the treaty's four schedules of controlled substances. The International Narcotics Control Board was put in charge of administering controls on drug production, international trade, and dispensation. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) was delegated the Board's day-to-day work of monitoring the situation in each country and working with national authorities to ensure compliance with the Single Convention. This treaty has since been supplemented by the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, which controls LSD, MDMA, and other psychoactive pharmaceuticals, and the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, which strengthens provisions against money laundering and other drug-related offenses.\n\nAs of February 2018, the Single Convention has 186 state parties. The Holy See, the State of Palestine plus all member states of the United Nations are state parties, with the exception of Chad, East Timor, Equatorial Guinea, Kiribati, Nauru, Samoa, South Sudan, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu.\n\nSince the Single Convention is not self-executing, Parties must pass laws to carry out its provisions, and the UNODC works with countries' legislatures to ensure compliance. As a result, most of the national drug statutes in the UNODC's legal library share a high degree of conformity with the Single Convention and its supplementary treaties, the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances and the 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances.\nThe Single Convention has been used as the basis for the standardization of national drug-control laws. In particular, the United States' Controlled Substances Act of 1970 and the United Kingdom's Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 were designed to fulfill treaty obligations. Both Acts include analogous schemes of drug Scheduling, along with similar procedures for adding, removing, and transferring drugs among the Schedules. The Controlled Substances Act follows the Single Convention's lead in granting a public health authority a central role in drug-scheduling decisions. It also includes a provision mandating that federal authorities control all \"drugs of abuse\" in accordance with the strictness required by the Single Convention (\"21 U.S.C. § 811(d)\").\n\nThe League of Nations adopted several drug control treaties prior to World War II, such as the International Opium Convention, and \"International Convention relating to Dangerous Drugs (1925)\" specifying uniform controls on addictive drugs such as cocaine and opium, and its derivatives. However, the lists of substances to be controlled were fixed in the treaties' text; consequently, it is necessary to periodically amend or supersede the conventions through the introduction of new treaties to keep up with advances in chemistry. In a 1954 interview with Harry J. Anslinger, who was the United States Commissioner Of Narcotics at the time, the cumbersome process of conference and state-by-state ratification could last for a period of numerous decades.\n\nA Senate of Canada committee report notes, \"The work of consolidating the existing international drug control treaties into one instrument began in 1948, but it was 1961 before an acceptable third draft was ready.\" That year, the UN Economic and Social Council convened a plenipotentiary conference of 73 nations for the adoption of a single convention on narcotic drugs. That meeting was known as the United Nations Conference on Narcotic Drugs. Canadian William B. McAllister, Q.C., notes that the participating states organized themselves into five distinct caucuses:\nThese competing interests, after more than eight weeks of negotiations, finally produced a compromise treaty. Several controls were watered down; for instance, the proposed mandatory embargoes on nations failing to comply with the treaty became recommendatory. The 1953 New York Opium Protocol, which had not yet entered into force, limited opium production to seven countries; the Single Convention lifted that restriction, but instituted other regulations and put the International Narcotics Control Board in charge of monitoring their enforcement. A compromise was also struck that allowed heroin and some other drugs classified as particularly dangerous to escape absolute prohibition.\n\nThe Single Convention created four Schedules of controlled substances and a process for adding new substances to the Schedules without amending the treaty. The Schedules were designed to have significantly stricter regulations than the two drug \"Groups\" established by predecessor treaties. For the first time, cannabis was added to the list of internationally controlled drugs. In fact, regulations on the cannabis plant – as well as the opium poppy, the coca bush, poppy straw and cannabis tops – were embedded in the text of the treaty, making it impossible to deregulate them through the normal Scheduling process. A 1962 issue of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs' \"Bulletin on Narcotics\" proudly announced that \"after a definite transitional period, all non-medical use of narcotic drugs, such as opium smoking, opium eating, consumption of cannabis (hashish, marijuana) and chewing of coca leaves, will be outlawed everywhere. This is a goal which workers in international narcotics control all over the world have striven to achieve for half a century.\"\n\nA 3 August 1962 Economic and Social Council resolution ordered the issuance of the Commentary on the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs. The legal commentary was created by the United Nations Secretary-General's staff (specifically, Adolf Lande, former Secretary of the Permanent Central Narcotics Board and Drug Supervisory Body), operating under a mandate to give \"an interpretation of the provisions of the Convention in the light of the relevant conference proceedings and other material.\" The Commentary contains the Single Convention's legislative history and is an invaluable aid to interpreting the treaty.\n\nThe Single Convention entered into force on 13 December 1964, having met 's requirement of 40 ratifications. As of 1 January 2005, 180 states were Parties to the treaty. Others, such as Cambodia, have committed to becoming Parties.\n\nOn 21 May 1971, the UN Economic and Social Council called a conference of plenipotentiaries to consider amendments to the Single Convention. The conference met at the United Nations Office at Geneva from 6 to 24 March 1972, producing the 1972 Protocol Amending the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs. The amendments entered into force on 8 August 1975.\n\nOn 11 November 1990, mechanisms for enforcing the Single Convention were expanded significantly by the entry into force of the United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, which had been signed at Vienna on 20 December 1988. The to this treaty acknowledges the inadequacy of the Single Convention's controls to stop \"steadily increasing inroads into various social groups made by illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances\". The new treaty focuses on stopping organized crime by providing for international cooperation in apprehending and convicting gangsters and starving them of funds through forfeiture, asset freezing, and other methods. It also establishes a system for placing precursors to Scheduled drugs under international control. Some non-Parties to the Single Convention, such as Andorra, belong to this treaty and thus are still under the international drug control regime.\n\nThe Single Convention repeatedly affirms the importance of medical use of controlled substances. The notes that \"the medical use of narcotic drugs continues to be indispensable for the relief of pain and suffering and that adequate provision must be made to ensure the availability of narcotic drugs for such purposes\". Articles 1, 2, 4, 9, 12, 19, and 49 contain provisions relating to \"medical and scientific\" use of controlled substances. In almost all cases, parties are permitted to allow dispensation and use of controlled substances under a prescription, subject to record-keeping requirements and other restrictions.\n\nThe Single Convention unambiguously condemns drug addiction, however, stating that \"addiction to narcotic drugs constitutes a serious evil for the individual and is fraught with social and economic danger to mankind\". It takes a prohibitionist approach to the problem of drug addiction, attempting to stop all non-medical, non-scientific use of narcotic drugs. requires nations to limit use and possession of drugs to medicinal and scientific purposes. allows countries to phase out coca leaf chewing, opium smoking, and other traditional drug uses gradually, but provides that \"the use of cannabis for other than medical and scientific purposes must be discontinued as soon as possible.\"\n\nThe discontinuation of these prohibited uses is intended to be achieved by cutting off supply. Rather than calling on nations to prosecute drug users, the treaty focuses on traffickers and producers. As of 2013, 234 substances are controlled under the Single Convention.\n\n requires Parties to adopt measures against \"cultivation, production, manufacture, extraction, preparation, possession, offering, offering for sale, distribution, purchase, sale, delivery on any terms whatsoever, brokerage, dispatch, dispatch in transit, transport, importation and exportation of drugs contrary to the provisions of this Convention,\" as well as \"[i]ntentional participation in, conspiracy to commit and attempts to commit, any of such offences, and preparatory acts and financial operations in connexion with the offences referred to in this article\". Article 36 does not directly require criminalization of all the above; it states only in the cases of (unspecified) serious offences that they \"shall be liable to adequate punishment particularly by imprisonment or other penalties of deprivation of liberty.\"\n\nThe Article also provides for extradition of drug offenders, although a Party has a right to refuse to extradite a suspect if \"competent authorities consider that the offense is not sufficiently serious.\" A 1971 amendment to the Article grants nations the discretion to substitute \"treatment, education, after-care, rehabilitation and social reintegration\" for criminal penalties if the offender is a drug abuser. A loophole in the Single Convention is that it requires Parties to place anti-drug laws on the books, but does not clearly mandate their enforcement, except in the case of drug cultivation.\n\nDrug enforcement varies widely between nations. Many European countries, including the United Kingdom, Germany, and, most famously, the Netherlands, do not prosecute all petty drug offenses. Dutch coffee shops are allowed to sell small amounts of cannabis to consumers. However, the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport's report, \"Drugs Policy in the Netherlands\", notes that large-scale \"[p]roduction and trafficking are dealt with severely under the criminal law, in accordance with the UN Single Convention. Each year the Public Prosecutions Department deals with an average of 10,000 cases involving infringements of the Opium Act.\" Some of the most severe penalties for drug trafficking are handed down in certain Asian countries, such as Malaysia, which mandate capital punishment for offenses involving amounts over a certain threshold. Singapore mandates the death penalty for trafficking in 15 g (half an ounce) of heroin, 30 g of cocaine or 500 g of cannabis. Most nations, such as France and the United States, find a middle ground, imposing a spectrum of sanctions ranging from probation to life imprisonment for drug offenses.\n\nThe Single Convention's penal provisions frequently begin with clauses such as \"Subject to its constitutional limitations, each Party shall . . .\" Thus, if a nation's constitution prohibited instituting the criminal penalties called for by the Single Convention, those provisions would not be binding on that country. However, Professor Cindy Fazey's \"A Growing Market: The Domestic Cultivation of Cannabis\" points out, \"Whilst this strategy may be practical politics for some countries, critics will ask why it has taken almost half a century to discover that the UN conventions conflict with a constitutional principle. The argument is particularly difficult to deploy for countries like Britain, where constitutional principles are not formalized or codified to any significant degree.\" However the current move in Switzerland to enshrine cannabis decriminalization in the national constitution by popular initiative could profit from this rule.\n\nIt is unclear whether or not the treaty requires criminalization of drug possession for personal use. The treaty's language is ambiguous, and a ruling by the International Court of Justice would probably be required to settle the matter decisively. However, several commissions have attempted to tackle the question. With the exception of the Le Dain Commission, most have found that states are allowed to legalize possession for personal use.\n\nThe Canadian Le Dain Commission of Inquiry into the Non-Medical Use of Drugs' 1972 report cites circumstantial evidence suggesting that states must prohibit possession for personal use:\n\nHowever, LeDain himself concludes\n\nThe costs to a significant number of individuals, the majority of whom are young people, and to society generally, of a policy of prohibition of simple possession are not justified by the potential for harm of cannabis and the additional influence which such a policy is likely to have upon perception of harm, demand and availability. We, therefore, recommend the repeal of the prohibition against the simple possession of cannabis.\n\nThe Canadian Department of National Health and Welfare's 1979 report, \"The Single Convention and Its Implications for Canadian Cannabis Policy\", counters with circumstantial evidence to the contrary:\n\nThe Sackville Commission of South Australia concluded in 1978 that:\n\nThe American Shafer Commission reached a similar conclusion in 1972, finding \"that the word 'possession' in refers not to possession for personal use but to Possession as a link in illicit trafficking.\"\n\nThe Canadian Department of National Health and Welfare report cites the Commentary itself in backing up its interpretation:\n\nThe Bulletin on Narcotics attempted to tackle the question in 1977:\n\nThe Single Convention's Schedules of drugs range from most restrictive to least restrictive, in this order: Schedule IV, Schedule I, Schedule II, Schedule III. The list of drugs initially controlled was annexed to the treaty. states that in order for a drug to be placed in a Schedule, the World Health Organization must make the findings required for that Schedule, to wit:\n\nSchedule I, according to the Commentary, is the category of drugs whose control provisions \"constitute the standard regime under the Single Convention.\" The principal features of that regime are:\n\nSchedule II drugs are regulated only slightly less strictly than Schedule I drugs. The Commentary confirms, \"Drugs in Schedule II are subject to the same measures of control as drugs in Schedule I, with only a few exceptions\":\n\nSchedule III \"contains preparations which enjoy a privileged position under the Single Convention, i.e. are subject to a less strict regime than other Preparations,\" according to the Commentary. Specifically:\n\nSchedule IV is the category of drugs, such as heroin, that are considered to have \"particularly dangerous properties\" in comparison to other drugs (ethanol is left unregulated). According to , \"The drugs in Schedule IV shall also be included in Schedule I and subject to all measures of control applicable to drugs in the latter Schedule\" as well as whatever \"special measures of control\"; each Party deems necessary. This is in contrast to the U.S. Controlled Substances Act, which has five Schedules ranging from Schedule I (most restrictive) to Schedule V (least restrictive), and the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, which has four Schedules ranging for Schedule I (most restrictive) to Schedule IV (least restrictive).\n\nUnder certain circumstances, Parties are required to limit Schedule IV drugs to research purposes only:\n\nThe Commentary explains two situations in which this provision would apply:\nThe Commentary notes that \"Whether the prohibition of drugs in Schedule IV (cannabis and cannabis resin, desomorphine, heroin, ketobemidone) should be mandatory or only recommended was a controversial question at the Plenipotentiary Conference.\" The provision adopted represents \"a compromise which leaves prohibition to the judgement, though theoretically not to the discretion, of each Party.\" The Parties are required to act in good faith in making this decision, or else they will be in violation of the treaty.\n\nThe Single Convention gives the UN Economic and Social Council's Commission on Narcotic Drugs (CND) power to add or delete drugs from the Schedules, in accordance with the World Health Organization's findings and recommendations. Any Party to the treaty may request an amendment to the Schedules, or request a review of the Commission's decision. The Economic and Social Council is the only body that has power to confirm, alter, or reverse the CND's scheduling decisions. The United Nations General Assembly can approve or modify any CND decision, except for scheduling decisions.\n\nThe CND's annual meeting serves as a forum for nations to debate drug policy. At the 2005 meeting, France, Germany, the Netherlands, Canada, Australia and Iran rallied in opposition to the UN's zero-tolerance approach in international drug policy. Their appeal was vetoed by the United States, while the United Kingdom delegation remained reticent. Meanwhile, U.S. Office of National Drug Control Policy Director John Walters clashed with United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime Executive Director Antonio Maria Costa on the issue of needle exchange programs. Walters advocated strict prohibition, while Costa opined, \"We must not deny these addicts any genuine opportunities to remain HIV-negative.\"\n\nThe International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) is mandated by of the Single Convention to \"endeavour to limit the cultivation, production, manufacture and use of drugs to an adequate amount required for medical and scientific purposes, to ensure their availability for such purposes and to prevent illicit cultivation, production and manufacture of, and illicit trafficking in and use of, drugs.\" The INCB administers the estimate system, which limits each nation's annual production of controlled substances to the estimated amounts needed for medical and scientific purposes.\n\n\n, added to the treaty by a 1971 amendment, gives the INCB more enforcement power by allowing it to deduct from a nation's production quota of cannabis, opium, and coca the amounts it determines have been produced within that nation and introduced into the illicit traffic. This could happen as a result of failing to control either illicit production or diversion of licitly produced opium to illicit purposes. In this way, the INCB can essentially punish a narcotics-exporting nation that does not control its illicit traffic by imposing an economic sanction on its medicinal narcotics industry.\n\nThe Single Convention exerts power even over those nations that have not ratified it. The International Narcotics Board states:\n\nThe most controversial decisions of the INCB are those in which it assumes the power to interpret the Single Convention. Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and Spain continue to experiment with medically supervised injection rooms, despite the INCB's objections that the Single Convention's allowance of \"scientific purposes\" is limited to clinical trials of pharmaceutical grade drugs and not public health interventions. These European nations have more leverage to disregard the Board's decisions because they are not dependent on licit psychoactive drug exports (which are regulated by the Board). As international lawyer Bill Bush notes, \"Because of the Tasmanian opium poppy industry, Australia is more vulnerable to political pressure than, say, Germany.\"\n\nThe INCB is an outspoken opponent of drug legalization. Its 2002 report rejects a common argument for drug reform, stating, \"Persons in favour of legalizing illicit drug use argue that drug abusers should not have their basic rights violated; however, it does not seem to have occurred to those persons that drug abusers themselves violate the basic rights of their own family members and society.\" The report dismisses concerns that drug control conflicts with principles of limited government and self-determination, arguing, \"States have a moral and legal responsibility to protect drug abusers from further self-destruction.\" The report takes a majoritarian view of the situation, declaring, \"Governments must respect the view of the majority of lawful citizens; and those citizens are against illicit drug use.\"\n\nThe Single Convention allows only drugs with morphine-like, cocaine-like, and cannabis-like effects to be added to the Schedules. The strength of the drug is not relevant; only the similarity of its effects to the substances already controlled. For instance, etorphine and acetorphine were considered sufficiently morphine-like to fall under the treaty's scope, although they are many times more potent than morphine. However, according to the Commentary:\n\nSince cannabis is a hallucinogen (although some dispute this), the Commentary speculates that mescaline, psilocybin, tetrahydrocannabinol, and LSD could have been considered sufficiently cannabis-like to be regulated under the Single Convention; however, it opines, \"It appears that the fact that the potent hallucinogenics whose abuse has spread in recent years have not been brought under international narcotics control does not result from legal reasons, but rather from the view of Governments that a regime different from that offered by the Single Convention would be more adequate.\" That different regime was instituted by the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances. The Convention on Psychotropic Drugs' scope can include any drug not already under international control if the World Health Organization finds that:\nThe reason for sharply limiting the scope of Single Convention to a few types of drugs while letting the Convention on Psychotropic Drugs cover the rest was concern for the interests of industry. Professor Cindy Fazey's \"The Mechanics and Dynamics of the UN System for International Drug Control\" explains, \"concerted efforts by drug manufacturing nations and the pharmaceutical industry ensured that the controls on psychotropics in the 1971 treaty were considerably looser than those applied to organic drugs in the Single Convention.\"\n\nA failed 24 March 2003 European Parliament committee report noted the disparity in how drugs are regulated under the two treaties:\n\nFor this reason, the European Parliament, Transnational Radical Party, and other organizations have proposed removing cannabis and other drugs from the Single Convention and scheduling them under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances.\n\nFurthermore, the provisions of the Single Convention regarding the national supply and demand of opium to make morphine contribute to the global shortage of essential poppy-based pain relief medicines. According to the Convention, governments can only request raw poppy materials according to the amount of poppy-based medicines used in the two preceding years. Consequently, in countries where underprescription is chronic due to the high prices of morphine and lack of availability and medical training in the prescription of poppy-based drugs, it is impossible to demand enough raw poppy materials from the INCB, as the Convention's regulating body, to meet the country's pain relief needs. As such, 77% of the world's poppy-based medicine supplies are used by only six countries (See: Fischer, B J. Rehm, and T Culbert, \"Opium based medicines: a mapping of global supply, demand and needs\" in\nSpivack D. (ed.) Feasibility Study on Opium Licensing in Afghanistan, Kabul, 2005. p. 85–86.). Many critics of the Convention cite this as one of its primary limitations and the World Health Organization is currently attempting to increase prescription of poppy-based drugs and to help governments of emerging countries in particular alter their internal regulations to be able to demand poppy-based medicines according to the Convention's provisions (see the WHO \"Assuring Availability of Opioid Analgesics for Palliative Care\"). The Senlis Council, a European drug policy thinktank, proposes creating a second-tier supply system that would complement the existing system without altering the balance of its relatively closed supply and demand system. The Council, who support licensing poppy cultivation in Afghanistan to create Afghan morphine, believe the opium supply in this country could go a long way to easing the pain relief needs of sufferers in emerging countries by producing a cheap poppy-based medicine solution (see [The Senlis Council]: \"Poppy for Medicine.\"\n\nThe Single Convention places the same restrictions on cannabis cultivation that it does on opium cultivation. and require each Party to establish a government agency to control cultivation. Cultivators must deliver their total crop to the agency, which must purchase and take physical possession of them within four months after the end of harvest. The agency then has the exclusive right of \"importing, exporting, wholesale trading and maintaining stocks other than those held by manufacturers.\"\n\nIn the United States, the National Institute on Drug Abuse fulfills that function. NIDA administers a contract with the University of Mississippi to grow a 1.5 acre (6,000 m²) crop of cannabis every other year; that supply comprises the only licit source of cannabis for medical and research purposes in the United States. Similarly, in 2000, Prairie Plant Systems was awarded a five-year contract to grow cannabis in the Flin Flon mine for Health Canada, that nation's licit cannabis cultivation authority.\n\nThere is some controversy over whether cannabis is \"particularly liable to abuse and to produce ill effects\" and whether that \"liability is not offset by substantial therapeutic advantages,\" as required by Schedule IV criteria. In particular, the discovery of the cannabinoid receptor system in the late 1980s revolutionized scientific understanding of cannabis' effects, and much anecdotal evidence has come to light about the plant's medical uses. The Canadian Senate committee's report notes,\n\nThe Commentary points out the theoretical possibility of removing cannabis from Schedule IV:\n\nCindy Fazey, former Chief of Demand Reduction for the United Nations Drug Control Programme, has pointed out that it would be nearly impossible to loosen international cannabis regulations. Even if the Commission on Narcotic Drugs removed cannabis from Schedule IV of the Single Convention, prohibitions against the plant would remain imbedded in and other parts of the treaty. Fazey cited amendment of the Articles and state-by-state denunciation as two theoretical possibilities for changing cannabis' international legal status, while pointing out that both face substantial barriers.\n\nIn a 2002 interview, INCB President Philip O. Emafo condemned European cannabis decriminalization measures:\n\nHowever, Kathalijne Buitenweg on the European Parliament's Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs issued a report on 24 March 2003 criticizing the Single Convention's scheduling regime:\n\nThere have been several lawsuits over whether cannabis' Schedule IV status under the Single Convention requires total prohibition at the national level. In 1970, the U.S. Congress enacted the Controlled Substances Act to implement the UN treaty, placing marijuana into Schedule I on the advice of Assistant Secretary of Health Roger O. Egeberg. His letter to Harley O. Staggers, Chairman of the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, indicates that the classification was intended to be provisional:\n\nThe reference to \"certain studies\" is to the then-forthcoming National Commission on Marijuana and Drug Abuse. In 1972, the Commission released a report favoring decriminalization of marijuana. The Richard Nixon administration took no action to implement the recommendation, however. In 1972, the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws filed a rescheduling petition under provisions of the Act. The government declined to initiate proceedings on the basis of their interpretation of U.S. treaty commitments. A federal Court ruled against the government and ordered them to process the petition (\"NORML v. Ingersoll 497 F.2d 654 (1974)\"). The government continued to rely on treaty commitments in their interpretation of scheduling related issues concerning the NORML petition, leading to another lawsuit (\"NORML v. DEA 559 F.2d 735 (1977)\"). In this decision, the Court made clear that the Act requires a full scientific and medical evaluation and the fulfillment of the rescheduling process before treaty commitments can be evaluated. \"See Removal of cannabis from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act\".\n\nCannabis leaves (as opposed to buds) are a special case. The Canadian Health Protection Branch's \"Cannabis Control Policy: A Discussion Paper\" found that, while the Single Convention requires nations to take measures against the misuse of, and illicit traffic in, cannabis buds, a ban is not required on licit production, distribution, and use of the leaves.\n\nSource: INCB Yellow List (50th edition, December 2011)\n\nContains 119 positions in Schedules I and II, generalization clauses (with 2 exclusions in Schedule I) and 2 specific generalizations in Schedule I. 17 positions from Schedule I are repeated in Schedule IV, and some preparations of Schedule I and Schedule II drugs are in Schedule III.\n\nContains 109 positions, generalization clause (with 2 exclusions) and 2 specific generalizations (1 for ecgonine and 1 for pentavalent nitrogen morphine derivatives).\n\nCannabis (listed as a single position):\n\nCoca leaf, cocaine and ecgonine:\n\nNatural opioids sources:\n\nNote on preparations: all preparations made direct from opium are considered to be opium (preparations), if the preparations are not made direct from opium itself but are obtained by a mixture of opium alkaloids (as is the case, for example, with pantopon, omnopon and papaveretum) they should be considered as morphine (preparations)\n\nNatural opioids:\n\nSemisynthetic opioids:\n\nSome morphine derivatives, including some natural metabolites of morphine and codeine:\n\nSynthetic opioids — morphinan derivatives:\n\nSynthetic opioids — fentanyl and derivatives:\n\nSynthetic 4-phenylpiperidine opioids — pethidines (meperidines):\n\nSynthetic 4-phenylpiperidine opioids — prodines:\n\nSynthetic 4-phenylpiperidine opioids — ketobemidones:\n\nSynthetic open chain opioids — amidones:\n\nSynthetic open chain opioids — methadols:\n\nSynthetic open chain opioids — moramides:\n\nSynthetic open chain opioids — thiambutenes:\n\nSynthetic open chain opioids — phenalkoxams:\n\nSynthetic open chain opioids — ampromides:\n\nSynthetic opioids — benzimidazoles:\n\nSynthetic opioids — benzomorphans:\n\nSynthetic opioids — pirinitramides:\n\nSynthetic opioids — phenazepanes:\n\nOther synthetic opioids:\n\nAnd:\nIsomers specifically excluded (both synthetic non-opioids being morphinan derivatives):\n\nContains 10 positions and generalization clause.\n\nNatural opioids:\n\nSemisynthetic opioids:\n\nNatural codeine metabolite:\n\nSynthetic open chain opioids — phenalkoxams:\n\nSynthetic open chain opioids — ampromides:\n\nAnd:\n\nPreparations of narcotic drugs exempted from some provisions:\n\nContains 17 positions from Schedule I (see note on cannabis) and generalization clause.\n\nCannabis (listed as a single position, cannabis extracts and tinctures are in Schedule I, but not in Schedule IV):\n\nSemisynthetic opioids:\n\nSynthetic opioids — fentanyl and derivatives:\n\nSynthetic 4-phenylpiperidine opioids — prodines:\n\nSynthetic 4-phenylpiperidine opioids — ketobemidones:\n\nAnd the salts of the drugs listed in this schedule whenever the formation of such salts is possible.\n\nCannabinoids (natural and synthetic) and opioids (synthetic and semisynthetic) are scheduled by Convention on Psychotropic Substances.\n\nNatural cannabinols (synthetic cannabinoids omitted):\n\nSemisynthetic agonist–antagonist opioids:\n\nSynthetic agonist-antagonist opioids — benzomorphans:\n\nSynthetic open chain opioids having also stimulant effects:\n\nSome opioids currently or formerly used in medicine are not scheduled by UN conventions, for example:\n\nThere are of course many opioid designer drugs, not used in medicine.\n\n\n provided that the Single Convention's entry into force terminated several predecessor treaties, including:\n\nThe Single Convention is supplemented by two other major drug control treaties:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4058823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4058823", "title": "Supreme Court of the United States in fiction", "text": "Supreme Court of the United States in fiction\n\nLike many institutions that draw public interest, the Supreme Court of the United States has frequently been depicted in fiction, often in the form of legal drama. In some instances, real decisions rendered by real courts are dramatized, as in \"Gideon's Trumpet\" and the seminal trial in \"The People vs. Larry Flynt\". Other depictions are purely fictional, but center on realistic issues that come before the court. Television series centered on dramatizing the happenings of the court have proven to be short-lived, and have tended to receive overall negative critical reaction. One reason that has been suggested is that the Supreme Count is a court of appeals, whereas most legal drama portrays trial courts. Appeals may appear \"bookish\" in contrast to the theatrical storytelling of trials, especially juries. Furthermore, American audiences are not very knowledgeable about or interested in the Supreme Court.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31083588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31083588", "title": "Tajik constitutional referendum, 2003", "text": "Tajik constitutional referendum, 2003\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Tajikistan on 22 June 2003. The changes included removing Article 65, which limited the President to a single term of office. They were approved by 94% of voters, with a turnout of 96%.\n"}
{"id": "7606474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7606474", "title": "Tender years doctrine", "text": "Tender years doctrine\n\nThe tender years doctrine is a legal principle in family law since the late nineteenth century. In common law, it presumes that during a child's \"tender\" years (generally regarded as the age of four and under), the mother should have custody of the child. The doctrine often arises in divorce proceedings.\n\nHistorically, English family law gave custody of the children to the father after a divorce because the father is able to provide for the child. Until the 19th century, the women had few individual rights and obligations, most being derived through their fathers or husbands. In the early nineteenth century, Caroline Norton, a prominent social reformer author, journalist, and society beauty, began to campaign for the right of women to have custody of their children. Norton, who had undergone a divorce and been deprived of her children, worked with politicians and eventually was able to convince the British Parliament to enact legislation to protect mothers' rights, with the Custody of Infants Act 1839, which gave some discretion to the judge in a child custody case and established a presumption of maternal custody for children under the age of seven years maintaining the responsibility from financial support to their husbands. In 1873 the Parliament extended the presumption of maternal custody until a child reached sixteen. The doctrine spread in many states of the world because of the British Empire. By the end of the 20th century, the doctrine was abolished in most of the United States and Europe.\n\nTender years doctrine was also frequently used in the 20th century being gradually replaced towards the end of the century, in the legislation of most states, by the \"best interests of the child\" doctrine of custody. Furthermore, several courts have held that the tender years doctrine violates the equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.\n\nThe Tender Years doctrine was gradually abolished in the majority of the states of the EU. In those states the joint custody is the rule after divorce or the separation of the parents. The Principles of the European Family Law regarding the parental responsibilities mention in clear that the two parents are equal and their parental responsibilities should neither be affected by the dissolution or annulment of the marriage or other formal relationship nor by the legal or factual separation between the parents.\n\nCritics of the family court system, and in particular father's rights groups, contend that although the tender years doctrine has formally been replaced by the best interests of the child rule, the older doctrine is still, in practice, the means by which child custody is primarily determined in family courts nationwide. Despite this, in 1989 the Massachusetts Supreme Court’s Gender Bias Study reported that \"Fathers who actively seek custody obtain either primary or joint physical custody over 70% of the time.\" However, others argue the 70% figure is extremely misleading because of its definition of joint custody being so broad as to include visitation rights among other issues. \n\nCritics maintain that the father must prove the mother to be an unfit parent before he is awarded primary custody, while the mother need not prove the father unfit in order to win custody herself, and that this is contrary to the equal protection clause.\n\n\n\n\n6. New England Law Review (1990) http://amptoons.com/blog/files/Massachusetts_Gender_Bias_Study.htm\n"}
{"id": "32575258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32575258", "title": "Thomas Cauchi", "text": "Thomas Cauchi\n\nThomas Cauchi (17th century) was a minor Maltese philosopher who specialised in law.\n\nLittle is known about the private life of Thomas Cauchi. Neither his dates of birth and death nor his birthplace in Malta are identified as yet. He might have lectured at the \"Collegium Melitense\" see in Valletta. He surely lectured in Messina, Sicily. Unfortunately, most the works of Cauchi are as yet lost. At least three are known to have existed, all dealing with the philosophy of law. Of these just one is still extant, which is the third volume of what is thought to have been a triad. Unfortunately, no known portrait of Cauchi is known to exist yet.\n\nCauchi’s only work which is still extant is Institutionum Decisiones D[ivi] Iustiniani Imperatoris (\"Teachings about the Conclusions of the Holy Emperor Justinian\"), written in 1699. The manuscript is held at the National Library of Malta, Valletta, and marked as MS. 1286#1. It contains fifty-four back to back folios, and is basically a philosophical commentary on Roman law. The content was part of Cauchi’s \"corpus\" of lectures given at Messina, Sicily, in or before the date of its composition. The manuscript is divided into ‘Conclusions’ (each called a \"Decisio\") and numbered paragraphs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14054230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14054230", "title": "Treaty of Maastricht (1843)", "text": "Treaty of Maastricht (1843)\n\nThe Treaty of Maastricht, signed in 1843 by Belgium and the Netherlands, established the border between the two countries. It resulted in a very complicated frontier in parts that passes through houses and has tiny enclaves due to land ownership dating back to the 12th century.\n\nPart of the left bank of the Meuse, near Maastricht, came back to the Netherlands.\n\nThis treaty was signed four years after the Treaty of London.\n\n"}
{"id": "9482598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9482598", "title": "Treaty of Saint Petersburg (1825)", "text": "Treaty of Saint Petersburg (1825)\n\nThe Treaty of Saint Petersburg of 1825 or the Anglo-Russian Convention of 1825, officially the Convention Concerning the Limits of Their Respective Possessions on the Northwest Coast of America and the Navigation of the Pacific Ocean, defined the boundaries between Russian America and British claims and possessions in the Pacific Northwest of North America at parallel 54°40′ north, which had the year before been established as the limit of overlapping American claims in the parallel Russo-American Treaty of 1824. The Russian sphere in the region was later sold to the United States, becoming Alaska, while to the south of the division point was the British claim, the remnant of which today is coast of the Canadian province of British Columbia. and associated rights and obligations concerning waters and ports in the region. The treaty, in establishing a vague division of coastal Russian interests and inland British interests northward from 56 degrees north, led to conflicting interpretations of the meaning of the treaty's wording which later manifested in the Alaska Boundary Dispute between the United States on the one hand, and Canada and the British Empire on the other.\n\nOther terms of the treaty, including the right to navigation by British vessels to both commerce in the region affected, and also access to rivers crossing the designated boundary, were exercised by the Hudson's Bay Company in 1834 but were met with opposition by then Russian-American Company Governor Wrangel in the form of warships and a blockade. This conflict, known as the \"Dryad\" affair, led to the RAC-HBC Agreement, in which the RAC agreed to lease the mainland portion of the region south of Cape Spencer at the entrance to Cross Sound and the HBC promised to supply Russian America with foodstuffs and manufactured goods. In addition the HBC waived its demand for payments for damages incurred during the \"Dryad\" affair. The same clauses enabled British access to the Stikine River goldfields in 1862 but were not assumed by the Americans upon their purchase of Russian interests in 1867, resulting in further conflict over British rights of access to the inland regions. The treaty's terms also played a part in the terms of the Bering Sea Arbitration and likewise in terms of other decisions in Alaska and US courts over marine and offshore interests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44040724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44040724", "title": "Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp. v. iCraveTV", "text": "Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp. v. iCraveTV\n\nTwentieth Century Fox Film Corp v. iCraveTV (2000 WL 255989 W.D.Pa.) was a court case in the\nUnited States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania which enjoined iCraveTV, a Canadian TV streaming website, from operating within the US after finding it in violation of 20th Century Fox's, and several other motion picture studios and television networks, copyrights and trademarks. Granted January 1, 2000, this injunction, along with continued legal pressure, led to the iCraveTV's demise just 3 months after its debut.\n\niCraveTV allowed users to stream network television directly through their personal computers via the internet. Broadcasts of 17 networks from Buffalo, NY and Toronto, Canada were picked up via a rooftop antennae in Toronto, turned into a retransmission signal, digitized, and then streamed online through the use of RealPlayer software at iCraveTV.com. The website was free for end-users however iCraveTV sold advertising spots to American and Canadian Companies. It displayed these advertisements alongside the streamed original content. The website launched quietly on November 30, 1999 but grew rapidly; in December 2000 it had 800,000 unique visits and played 60 million instances of users being exposed to 30 second advertisements.\n\nUnder Canada's Broadcasting Act retransmission of broadcast signals in this manner is legal within Canada. Because this retransmission is not necessarily legal in other countries, iCraveTV restricted use of its site to Canadian residents. Upon first visit to the site, users had to enter their 3 digit Canadian area code, verify that they were in Canada by clicking a box that said \"I'm in Canada\", and agree to the terms of use. International users, however, were easily able to bypass these restrictions and made up 45% of the traffic to the website.\n\nThe plaintiffs in this case included several sports leagues, motion picture studios, and television networks, such as the National Football League, Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation, and the American Broadcasting Company. Plaintiffs contended that iCraveTV had copied and displayed several of their copyrighted works without their permission and that the site was too easily accessible within the US. The plaintiffs sought a preliminary injunction to prevent iCraveTV from displaying works in the US based on violation of the US Copyright and Lanham (Trademark) Acts.\n\niCraveTV representatives did not deny that they had copied copyrighted works, represented themselves as the authors, or publicly performed said works; rather they argued that their actions were legal in Canada, and that they did not intend for US residents to view the works on their site. Despite this argument, based on the precedent set in Williams Elecs., Inc. v. Attic Int'l, Inc., 685 F.2d 870, 878 [215 USPQ 405] (3d Cir.1982) injunctions may be issued without proving willful or deliberate infringement.\n\nRegardless of where the broadcast originates, the Copyright Act gives jurisdiction to the district courts when the acts of infringement are committed within the US. In this case streaming constitutes an unauthorized public performance, which is a violation of the plaintiffs' rights as copyright owners. Public performance was proven by an examination of the Real Video server log showing that 45% of iCraveTV's traffic came from IP addresses within the United States. Additionally, plaintiffs presented testimony and sworn affidavits establishing that the Pennsylvania residents had accessed iCraveTV's website.\n\nThe court found that iCraveTV had directly and willingly infringed upon the rights of the plaintiffs under 17 U.S.C § 106 by making unauthorized copies of, preparing derivative works of (by removing subtitle data), and publicly displaying copyrighted works throughout the US. iCraveTV was also found to be liable for contributory infringement of the same works by knowingly and materially contributing to infringement by its users within the US.\n\niCraveTV was found to be in violation of the Lanham Act by portraying itself as legitimate telecasters endorsed by the plaintiffs, and falsely stating that they owned copyrights on the streamed content. Additionally, iCraveTV violated the plaintiffs rights under the Lanham Act by infringing upon and diluting they trademarks with the intent of leveraging the plaintiffs reputation and goodwill.\n\nUnder the common law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, iCraveTV was also found to have participated in unfair competition and civil conspiracy that would irreparably harm the plaintiffs without an injunction.\n\nOn January 1, 2000 the court granted the Plaintiff's a temporary restraining order which enjoined iCraveTV from infringing upon the plaintiff's copyrights, trademarks, and trade names through any means including, but not limited to, online streaming.\n\nRather than returning to court as dictated by the preliminary injunction ruling, iCraveTV and representatives of the motion picture, television, and professional sports industries came to an out-of-court settlement agreement. The agreement stated that iCraveTV would no longer engage in illegal streaming of television signals into the US through the Internet. The settlement also prohibited iCraveTV from seeking (or helping anyone else seek) a ruling on the legality of their form of Internet broadcasting in Canada. In addition, the settlement required iCraveTV to withdraw a petition it made to Canada's Copyright Board asking for a suggestion on how much iCraveTV should be paying to fulfill the same copyright responsibilities met by other rebroadcasters. Following the settlement, iCraveTV Chief Executive Bill Craig agreed to shut down the site.\n\nIn September 2010, Seattle-based company ivi launched a similar service as iCraveTV for watching television online at a flat monthly fee. When a group of broadcaster and copyright holders filed copyright infringement claims against ivi that same month in WPIX, Inc. v. ivi, Inc., ivi argued that since the company simply retransmits unaltered content meant for the public, it meets the requirements necessary for the \"passive carrier exemption\" from copyright liability. Unlike iCraveTV, ivi did not frame its retransmission in advertising, an act which could arguably be considered a modification of the original content. In February 2011 the district court rejected ivi's argument, ruling that ivi's service did constitute copyright infringement and demanding the service shut down. In August 2012, an appeals court affirmed the decision.\n\nIn September 2013, graduate student Benjamin Klass filed a net neutrality complaint against Bell Mobility with the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) for its treatment of online video services. In response to this complaint, the CRTC sent a series of questions to Bell to investigate the issue. Canadian academic Michael Geist argues that these questions demonstrate the existence of an iCraveTV legal framework. Per this framework, services can protect themselves from prosecution by claiming either the retransmission provision of Canada's Copyright Act or the CRTC's new media exception order; they cannot claim both.\n\n"}
{"id": "28311134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28311134", "title": "Unemployment extension", "text": "Unemployment extension\n\nUnemployment extension occurs when regular unemployment benefits are exhausted and extended for additional weeks. Unemployment extensions are created by passing new legislation at the federal level, often referred to as an \"unemployment extension bill.\" This new legislation is introduced and passed during times of high or above average unemployment rates. Unemployment extensions are set during a date range in order to estimate their federal cost. After expiration, the unemployment data is re-evaluated, and new legislation may be proposed and passed to further extend them.\n\nIn the United States, there is a standard of 26 weeks of unemployment benefits, known as \"regular unemployment insurance (UI) benefits.\" There are two programs for extending unemployment insurance (UI) benefits: Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) and Extended Benefits (EB).\n\nThe unemployment insurance program is a great benefit for workers whom have lost their job. The maximum duration of benefits has increased from 26 to 99 weeks in some states. Unemployment extensions across the United States are a concern due to the lack of motivation in obtaining a job due to health issues. A solution to the problem would be to implement frequent processes to ensure the individual continues to stay actively applying as well as proper health routines are done. The benefits given are too long causing a lack in motivation to find a job and health issues that arise as a result of being laid off. Health issues include: anxiety, depression, joint problems, and low self-esteem. A solution to the problem would be to require routine health checkups to individuals receiving the unemployment benefits. Another solution would be to provide seminars that help motivate individuals and keep them prepared when actively applying for jobs to avoid the benefits extension that would lead to underlying health issues. Providing unemployed individuals with the proper tools and resources will help with the unemployment rate and the need for extending unemployment benefits in the United States.\n\nEUC is a 100% federally funded program that provides benefits to individuals who have exhausted regular state benefits. The EUC program was created on June 30, 2008, and has been modified several times. Most recently, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (P.L. 112-240) extended the expiration date of the EUC program to January 1, 2014. To date, Congress has not passed any further extensions.\n\n\"EUC has four levels: Tiers 1, 2, 3 and 4.\"\n\nEUC08, or Emergency Unemployment Compensation 2008, is an extension of unemployment benefits authorized under Federal law. The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (enacted on Feb 22, 2012) modified EUC08.\n\nClaimants who filed an initial claim effective on or after May 7, 2006 are potentially eligible for EUC08. Individuals who are monetarily ineligible when a new benefit year is filed may qualify for EUC08 on the basis of a previous claim.\n\n\nExtended Benefits are available to workers who have exhausted regular unemployment insurance benefits during periods of high unemployment. The basic Extended Benefits program provides up to 13 additional weeks of benefits when a State is experiencing high unemployment. Some States have also enacted a voluntary program to pay up to 7 additional weeks (20 weeks maximum) of Extended Benefits during periods of extremely high unemployment.\n\nIn addition to individuals who exhausted all rights to benefits after the original date of enactment, the EUC law includes what is commonly referred to as a reachback provision. A reachback provision makes eligible those individuals who exhausted all rights to benefits prior to the original date of enactment (back to a specified date). The EUC law makes eligible all individuals whose benefit year ending date is on or after May 1, 2007. Practically speaking, this means some individuals receiving EUC may have become unemployed as early as May 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50535710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50535710", "title": "United States v. New Wrinkle, Inc.", "text": "United States v. New Wrinkle, Inc.\n\nUnited States v. New Wrinkle, Inc., 342 U.S. 371 (1952), is a 1952 Supreme Court decision in which the Court held that a claim of conspiracy to fix uniform minimum prices and to eliminate competition throughout substantially all of the wrinkle finish industry of the United States by means of patent license agreements was, if proved, a violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act. That one of the defendants, a patent-holding company, abstained from manufacturing activities, did not ship goods in commerce, and engaged solely in patent licensing did not insulate its activity from § 1. Making these license contracts for the purpose of regulating distribution and fixing prices of commodities in interstate commerce is subject to the Sherman Act, even though the isolated act of contracting for the licenses occurs within a single state. Patents give no protection from the prohibitions of the Sherman Act when the patent licensing agreements are used to restrain interstate commerce and fix prices of goods shipped in commerce.\n\nBefore and during 1937, two paint companies, Kay & Ess and Chadeloid Chemical Co., were in patent litigation with each other. Each company claimed that it controlled the basic patents on wrinkle finish, and each company contended that the patents of the other could not be used without infringing its own patents. In November 1937 they decided to settle the litigation by forming a new, jointly–owned company, New Wrinkle, to which they assigned their patents. They agreed that they would license the wrinkle–finish industry to make and sell at fixed prices. Kay & Ess and Chadeloid then worked together to induce all manufacturers of wrinkle finish products to accept the price-fixing patent licenses from New Wrinkle. The prospective licensees were assured that the other manufacturers were being dealt with on the same basis \"in order to establish minimum prices throughout the industry.\" By September 1938 the leading manufacturing companies and some 200 other manufacturers—substantially all manufacturers of wrinkle finishes in the United States—held nearly identical ten-year extendable license agreements from New Wrinkle, fixing prices. These license agreements required that a licensee observe in all sales of products covered by the licensed patents a schedule of minimum prices, discounts, and selling terms. Unlike its organizers, Kay & Ess and Chadeloid, New Wrinkle does not manufacture and sell the patented products. It just owns and licenses the patents.\n\nThe United States sued Kay & Ess, Chadeloid, and New Wrinkle in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, for conspiring to fix uniform minimum prices and to eliminate competition throughout the wrinkle–finish industry, in violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act. The defendants filed motions to dismiss, which the district court granted without issuing any opinion. The United States appealed to the Supreme Court.\n\nJustice Stanley Reed delivered the unanimous opinion of the Court.\n\nBecause New Wrinkle, unlike Kay & Ess and Chadeloid, did not manufacture or sell the patented products, and just owned and licensed the pooled patents, New Wrinkle contended that it is not engaged in trade or commerce—and thus could not be held liable for restraining trade and commerce under § 1 of the Sherman Act. \"These contentions leave out of consideration,\" the Court responded, the allegations that \"the use of patent licenses as an essential part of the plan to restrain trade, a trade in enamels, varnishes, and paints that is alleged to be and obviously is interstate in character.\" Pointing to the price-fixing provisions of the licenses, the Court said that it is \"beyond question that this making of license contracts for the purpose of regulating distribution and fixing prices of commodities in interstate commerce is subject to the Sherman Act, even though the isolated act of contracting for the licenses is wholly within a single state.\"\n\nNew Wrinkle next argued that the doctrine of \"United States v. General Electric Co.\"—the \"1926 GE case\"—immunized the price fixing from the antitrust laws. The Court distinguished the \"GE\" case from the case at bar: In the \"GE\" case, a patentee licensed a single other manufacturer to make and sell the patented product with a price limitation controlled by the patentee. In the present case, a patentee, acting in concert with all members of an industry, issued substantially identical licenses to all members of the industry under the terms of which the industry is completely regimented in order to organize the industry and stabilize prices. The Court said the case was indistinguishable from \"United States v. Line Material Co.\", and \"United States v. United States Gypsum Co.\", which held such conduct illegal.\n\nIn \"Newburgh Moire Co. v. Superior Moire Co.\", the Third Circuit held that price-fixing clauses in multiple patent licenses violated the Sherman Act. Newburgh entered into licensing agreements with three of the five manufacturers in the moire finish industry, containing price-fixing clauses. The court held that the fact that there was more than one price-fixing license (in contrast to the single such license in the \"General Electric\" case) made the licenses fall outside the range of protected behavior that the \"General Electric\" case allowed. The Third Circuit explained:\n\nAt worst, we think that the patent laws were not intended to empower a patentee to grant a plurality of licenses, each containing provisions fixing the price at which the licensee might sell the product or process . . . and that, if a plurality of licenses are granted, such provisions therein are prohibited by the antitrust laws. The course pursued by Newburgh in the case at bar transcends the authority of the \"General Electric\" decision.\n\nDespite the differences in the fact patterns (multiple licenses, pooling, cross-licensing), the court said it saw no difference between the \"General Electric\" and \"New Wrinkle\" cases, so that the latter must be regarded as overruling the former: \"We can find no very strong basis for distinguishing between \"General Electric\" and \"New Wrinkle\". The explanation probably lies more in history than in logic, for history is an untidy housekeeper.\"\n"}
{"id": "12253379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12253379", "title": "William Van Alstyne", "text": "William Van Alstyne\n\nWilliam Warner Van Alstyne is an American lawyer, law professor, and constitutional law scholar. Prior to retiring in 2012, he held the named position of Lee Professor of Law at William and Mary Law School. He was the Perkins Professor of Law at Duke Law School for more than 30 years and has taught at Chicago Law School; Stanford Law School; University of California, Berkeley, Law School, University of California, Los Angeles, Law School; Michigan Law School, among many others.\n\nVan Alstyne received his Bachelor of Arts degree in philosophy \"magna cum laude\" from the University of Southern California. He received his Juris Doctor law degree from Stanford Law School. Following his admission to the California Bar and brief service as Deputy Attorney General of California, he joined the Civil Rights Division of the U. S. Department of Justice handling voting rights cases in the South. After active duty with the U. S. Air Force, he was appointed to the law faculty of the Ohio State University, advancing to full professor in three years. Professor Van Alstyne was named to Duke's William R. and Thomas S. Perkins Chair of Law in 1974. He holds a certificate from The Hague Academy of International Law and has been honored with LL.D. degrees by Wake Forest University and the College of William & Mary.\n\nIn 1987, Professor Van Alstyne was selected in a poll of federal judges, lawyers, and academics by the New York Law Journal as one of three academics among \"the 10 most qualified\" persons in the country for appointment to the Supreme Court, a distinction repeated in a similar poll by The American Lawyer, in 1991. Past National President of the American Association of University Professors, and former member of the National Board of Directors of the A.C.L.U., he was elected into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1994.\n\nVan Alstyne's body of work includes many books, law journal articles, and congressional committee testimony. In 1994, he was elected into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. An article in the January 2000 \"Journal of Legal Studies\" found that Van Alstyne was among the top 40 legal scholars in the United States in number of academic citations. His work has also been cited by courts, including the Supreme Court of the United States. In 2012, in a study published by the University of Michigan Law Review, by Fred Shapiro and Michelle Pearse, \"The Most Cited Law Review Article of All Time,\" Van Alstyne's \"The Demise of the Right-Privilege Distinction in Constittional Law,\" 81 HARV. L. REV. 1439 (1968) was included at number 35. http://repository.law.umich.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1084&context=mlr.\n\nHe has testified numerous times before Congress on numerous Constitutional issues. His testimony on the impeachment of President William Jefferson Clinton was quoted with approval by the New York Times opinion page. \"This point [to strike a balance] was underscored by one of the Republican witnesses, Prof. William Van Alstyne of Duke University Law School. It is \"the prerogative of this Congress,\" he observed, \"to express dismay, despair and condemnation\" by means short of impeachment. Mindful of the likelihood that impeachment will fail, he urged lawmakers to \"struggle to find a suitable means to express your sense of disappointment.\"\n\nThat neatly defines the challenge now confronting the members of Congress. There is nothing in the Constitution to keep them from rising to that task.\" https://www.nytimes.com/1998/11/11/opinion/constitutional-room-for-censure.html\n"}
{"id": "20740239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20740239", "title": "Youth advocate", "text": "Youth advocate\n\nA youth advocate is an adult who acts in the best interests of the youth that they are working with. The overall purpose of a youth advocate is to ensure that youth maintain their human rights while aiding in skill development in all areas of life such as education, health, housing, employment, relationships, etc. A youth advocate aims to prevent youth from experiencing diminished self-esteem while interacting with adults who hold professional authoritative roles in their life. Examples of these adults are judges, lawyers, teachers, etc. Travis Lloyd, a speaker on the subject, describes a youth advocate as one who plays a significant supportive role in the social and legal processes in the lives of young people, especially homeless and foster youth who lack family support. In consideration of the legal aspects, the National Association of Youth Courts describes a youth advocate as a person who provides support to a youth respondent or defendant during a hearing.\n\n"}
