{"id": "19356029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19356029", "title": "2008 Chinese milk scandal", "text": "2008 Chinese milk scandal\n\nThe 2008 Chinese milk scandal was a widespread food safety incident in China. The scandal involved milk and infant formula along with other food materials and components being adulterated with melamine. Of an estimated 300,000 victims in China, six babies died from kidney stones and other kidney damage and an estimated 54,000 babies were hospitalized. The chemical gives the appearance of higher protein content when added to milk, leading to protein deficiency in the formula. In a separate incident four years prior, watered-down milk had resulted in 12 infant deaths from malnutrition. The scandal broke on 16 July 2008, after sixteen babies in Gansu Province were diagnosed with kidney stones. The babies were fed infant formula produced by Shijiazhuang-based Sanlu Group. After the initial focus on Sanlu—market leader in the budget segment—government inspections revealed the problem existed to a lesser degree in products from 21 other companies, including an Arla Foods-Mengniu joint venture company known as Arla Mengniu, Yili, and Yashili.\n\nThe issue raised concerns about food safety and political corruption in China, and damaged the reputation of China's food exports. At least 11 countries stopped all imports of Chinese dairy products. A number of criminal prosecutions were conducted by the Chinese government. Two people were executed, one given a suspended death penalty, three people receiving life imprisonment, two receiving 15-year jail terms, and seven local government officials, as well as the Director of the Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine (AQSIQ), were fired or forced to resign.\n\nThe World Health Organization referred to the incident as one of the largest food safety events it has had to deal with in recent years, and that the crisis of confidence among Chinese consumers would be hard to overcome. A spokesman said the scale of the problem proved it was \"clearly not an isolated accident, [but] a large-scale intentional activity to deceive consumers for simple, basic, short-term profits.\" In late October 2008, similar adulteration with melamine was discovered in eggs and possibly other food. The source was traced to melamine being added to animal feed, despite a ban imposed in June 2007 following the scandal over pet food ingredients exported to the United States.\n\nIn 2012, Jiang Weisuo, a 44-year-old general manager of a dairy products plant in Shanxi province, was rumoured to have been murdered in Xi'an city. It was Weisuo who had first alerted authorities to the scandal. According to the Xi'an Evening News, Jiang died in hospital on 12 November from knife wounds inflicted by his wife, Yang Ping, but the purported murder by his wife was subsequently reported to be incorrect.\n\nMelamine is used to manufacture melamine-formaldehyde resin, a type of plastic known for its flame-retardant properties and commonly employed in countertops, dry-erase boards, etc. Melamine itself is nitrogen-rich and is sometimes illegally added to food products to increase their apparent protein content. It has also been employed as a non-protein nitrogen, appearing in soy meal, corn gluten meal and cottonseed meal used in cattle feed. Melamine is known to cause renal failure and kidney stones in humans and animals when it reacts with cyanuric acid inside the body. The use of melamine in food production is not approved by WHO or national authorities.\n\nThe Kjeldahl and Dumas methods used to test for protein levels fail to distinguish between nitrogen in melamine and naturally occurring in amino acids, allowing the protein levels to be falsified. Introduced into milk, it can help conceal fraudulent dilution with water. Melamine adulteration of food products also made headlines when pet food was recalled in Europe and the U.S. in 2007.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) said melamine may be found \"in a variety of milk and milk products at varying levels, from low ppb to ppm ranges.\" One academic suggested cyromazine, a melamine derivative pesticide commonly used in China for a long time, is absorbed into plants as melamine; it may therefore have long been present in products such as poultry, eggs, fish, and dairy products. It is not known where in the supply chain the melamine was added to the milk. The chemical is not water-soluble, and must be mixed with formaldehyde or another chemical before it can be dissolved in milk.\n\nBecause of poor animal husbandry, production and storage and the demand for milk far outstripping supplies, the use of other potentially harmful chemical additives such as preservatives and hydrogen peroxide has been reported by independent media as being commonplace. Quality tests can be falsified with additives: peroxide is added to prevent milk going bad; industrial vegetable oil is emulsified and added to boost fat levels; whey is used to increase lactose content. However, the procurement chain is also implicated, as milk agents are often politically well-connected. Farmers report salespeople had, for years, been visiting farms in dairy areas hawking \"protein powder\" additives, which would often be delivered in unmarked brown paper bags of each. A new version of \"protein powder\", capable of fooling dairies as to protein content, started being peddled approximately two years ago. Thus, farmers either added melamine contaminant unwittingly, or turned a blind eye to milk adulteration to ensure their milk was not rejected. The big dairy producers were complicit in producing \"test-tube milk\".\n\n\"Caijing\" reported in 2008 that \"spiking fresh milk with additives such as melamine\" was no longer a secret to Hebei dairy farmers for the past two years. Because of fierce competition for supplies, and the higher prices paid by Mengniu and Yili, Sanlu's procurement became squeezed; its inspection system became compromised \"as early as 2005 and allowed milk collection stations to adopt unscrupulous business practices\", while government supervision was \"practically nonexistent\".\n\n\"Caijing\" also reported the melamine in the tainted milk may have come from scrap melamine costing ¥700 per tonne—less than one-tenth of the price of 99% pure industrial grade melamine. The melamine production process produces pure melamine by crystallisation; the melamine remaining in the mother liquor is impure (70%) and unusable for plastics, so it is scrapped. It said Sanlu's baby formula melamine content was a result of tampering by adding low-cost vegetable protein (such as low-grade soya powder), and large amounts of scrap melamine as filler. Scrap melamine contains impurities such as cyanuric acid that form more insoluble crystals (melamine cyanurate) than melamine alone, aggravating the problem.\n\nOn 17 September 2008, Health Minister Chen Zhu stated tainted milk formula had \"sickened more than 6,200 children, and that more than 1,300 others, mostly newborns, remain hospitalized with 158 suffering from acute kidney failure\". By 23 September, about 54,000 children were reported to be sick and four had died. An additional 10,000 cases were reported from the provinces by 27 September. A World Health Organization official said 82% of the children made ill were 2 years of age or below. The Hong Kong Centre for Food Safety said that 99 percent of the victims were aged under 3 years. Ten Hong Kong children were diagnosed with kidney problems, at least four cases were detected in Macau, and six in Taiwan. Non-human casualties included a lion cub and two baby orangutans which had been fed Sanlu infant formula at Hangzhou Zoo.\n\nThe government said on 8 October it would no longer issue updated figures \"because it is not an infectious disease, so it's not absolutely necessary for us to announce it to the public.\" Reuters compiled figures reported by local media across the country, and said the toll stood at nearly 94,000 at the end of September, excluding municipalities. Notably, 13,459 children had been affected in Gansu, Reuters quoted Xinhua saying Henan had reported over 30,000 cases, and Hebei also had nearly 16,000 cases.\n\nIn late October, the government announced health officials had surveyed 300,000 Beijing families with children less than 3 years old. It disclosed approximately 74,000 families had a child who had been fed melamine-tainted milk, but did not reveal how many of those children had fallen ill as a result.\n\nBecause of the many months before the scandal was exposed, the media suggest the official figures are likely to be understated. Kidney stones in infants started being reported in several parts of China in the past two years. A number of yet-to-be-officially-acknowledged cases were reported by the media. However, those deaths without an official verdict may be denied compensation. On 1 December, Xinhua reported that the Ministry of Health revised the number of victims to more than 290,000 with 51,900 hospitalized; authorities acknowledged receiving reports of 11 suspected deaths from melamine contaminated powdered milk from provinces, but officially confirmed three deaths.\n\nOn characterisation and treatment of urinary stones in affected infants, the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" printed an editorial in March 2009, along with reports on cases from Beijing, Hong Kong and Taipei.\n\nUrinary calculi specimens were collected from 15 cases treated in Beijing and were analysed as unknown objects for their components at Beijing Institute of Microchemistry using infrared spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance, and high-performance liquid chromatography. The result of the analyses showed the calculi were composed of melamine and uric acid, and the molecular ratio of uric acid to melamine was around 2:1.\n\nIn a study published in 2010, researchers from Peking University studying ultrasound images of infants who fell ill in the 2008 contamination found while most children in a rural Chinese area recovered, 12 percent still showed kidney abnormalities six months later. \"The potential for long-term complications after exposure to melamine remains a serious concern\", the report said. \"Our results suggest a need for further follow-up of affected children to evaluate the possible long-term impact on health, including renal function.\"\n\nContaminated products found in the China AQSIS tests include baby formula products produced by the following companies, in order of highest concentration found. Shijiazhuang Sanlu Group, Shanghai Panda Dairy, Qingdao Shengyuan Dairy, Shanxi Gu Cheng Dairy, Jiangxi Guangming Yingxiong Dairy, Baoji Huimin Dairy, Inner Mongolia Mengniu Dairy, Torador Dairy Industry (Tianjin), Guangdong Yashili Group, Hunan Peiyi Dairy, Heilongjiang Qilin Dairy, Shanxi Yashili Dairy, Shenzhen Jinbishi Milk, Scient (Guangzhou) Infant Nutrition, Guangzhou Jinding Dairy Products Factory, Inner Mongolia Yili Industrial Group, Yantai Ausmeadow Nutriment, Qingdao Suncare Nutritional Technology, Xi'an Baiyue Dairy, Yantai Leilei Dairy, Shanghai Baoanli Dairy, and Fuding Chenguan Dairy.\n\nThe scandal began with revelations of contamination of Sanlu milk products. The New Zealand dairy cooperative Fonterra, which owned a 43% stake in Sanlu, said they were alerted to melamine contamination on 2 August (almost a month before the issue became public), and have said to have pushed hard for a full public recall. Although there was an immediate trade recall, Fonterra said that local administrators refused an official recall. A Fonterra director had given San Lu management a document detailing the European Union's permitted levels of melamine, but Fonterra chief executive Andrew Ferrier has stated that at no time did Fonterra say small amounts of melamine were acceptable.\n\nFrom 2005 to 2006, an agent, Jiang Weisuo, from Shaanxi Jinqiao Dairy Company in northwest China reportedly publicly discussed his fears about unauthorised substances being added to competitors' milk. His complaints to regulators and dairy makers in 2005 and 2006 never yielded any result; his story was picked up by China Central Television, who ran a report complete with footage of adulteration in progress, yet the Shaanxi Quality and Technical Supervision Bureau said they failed to find evidence of wrongdoing.\n\nThe bulletin board of the Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine (AQSIQ) indicated a rare occurrence of kidney stones in children–all causally traced to Sanlu milk formula–was flagged by at least one member of the public in June 2008 and by a urologist in a paediatric hospital on 24 July 2008. Neither received definitive replies. The paediatrician, who specifically asked the AQSIQ to refer his observations to epidemiologists, was asked to refer his query to the health department.\n\nIn June, Jiangsu media reported a two-month surge in the number of babies diagnosed with kidney disease; in July, a parent of a sick baby in Hunan questioned Sanlu's powdered milk and complained to the AQSIQ. Gansu Province sent a report to the Ministry of Health on 16 July to alert that one local hospital had identified an increase in the incidence of kidney ailments among babies in the months earlier, and that most victims had consumed Sanlu's baby formula. The health ministry sent investigators to Gansu in early August.\n\nFonterra notified the New Zealand government on 5 September and three days later, the Prime Minister Helen Clark had Beijing officials alerted directly. News reports began circulating in China on 9 September, the news broke internationally a day later by Reuters. The state-controlled media report did not initially identify the company involved, postings on Tianya.cn, a Chinese social portal, named Sanlu as the culprit. Sanlu initially denied the allegations.\n\nA State Council investigation revealed Sanlu began receiving complaints about sick infants as far back as December 2007, but did no tests until June 2008. It said leading government officials in Shijiazhuang city had failed to report the contamination to provincial and state authorities (until 9 September) in violation of rules on reporting major incidents involving food safety. According to the \"People's Daily\", Sanlu wrote a letter to Shijiazhuang city government on 2 August 2008, asking for help to \"increase control and coordination of the media, to create a good environment for the recall of the company's problem products ... to avoid whipping up the issue and creating a negative influence in society.\"\n\nAccording to accounts confirmed by media reports and health officials, the company tried to buy off critics and cover up the contamination. In a memo dated 11 August, Beijing-based public relations agency Teller International advised Sanlu to seek cooperation with major search engines to censor negative information. The agency reportedly had repeatedly contacted key account staff at Baidu and proposed a ¥3 million (US$440,000) budget to screen all negative news. After the memo began circulating on the internet, Baidu denounced, in a communiqué on 13 September 2008, the approaches by said agency on several occasions, saying the proposal was firmly rejected, as it violated their corporate principles of unbiased and transparent reporting.\n\nHelen Clark said of the local government: \"I think the first inclination was to try and put a towel over it and deal with it without an official recall.\" Western media speculated China's desire for a perfect summer Olympics contributed to the delayed recall of the baby milk, citing a guideline allegedly issued to Chinese media that reporting food safety issues, such as cancer-causing mineral water, was \"off-limits\" although the Central government denied issuing this guidance. Hebei provincial vice-governor said his administration was only notified by Shijiazhuang on 8 September. However, a journalist at \"Southern Weekend\" wrote an investigative report in late July for publication about infants who had fallen ill after consuming baby formula from Sanlu. Six weeks later, senior editor Fu Jianfeng revealed on his personal blog that this report had been suppressed by authorities, because of the imminent Beijing Olympics. While this was happening, Sanlu was honoured in a national award campaign called \"30 Years: Brands that Have Changed the Lives of Chinese.\" The press release on the award, written by a senior public relations manager at Sanlu, passed as news content on \"People's Daily\" and in other media.\n\nOn 15 September, the company issued a public apology for the contaminated powdered milk; Sanlu was ordered to halt production, and to destroy all unsold and recalled products. Authorities reportedly seized 2,176 tons of powdered milk in Sanlu's warehouses. An estimated 9,000 tons of product had been recalled.\n\nTian Wenhua, Chairwoman and general manager of Sanlu and Secretary of the Sanlu Communist Party chapter was stripped of her party and functional posts during an extraordinary meeting of the Hebei provincial standing committee of the CCP; four Shijiazhuang officials, including vice mayor in charge of food and agriculture, Zhang Fawang, were reportedly removed from office. Shijiazhuang Mayor Ji Chuntang resigned on 17 September. Li Changjiang, minister in charge of the AQSIQ, was forced to resign on 22 September after the State Council inquest concluded he was responsible for the \"negligence in supervision\". Investigators also blamed the Shijiazhuang government. Local Party Secretary Wu Xianguo was fired on the same day.\n\nSanlu GM Tian was charged under Articles 144 and 150 of the criminal code. A spokesman for the Hebei Provincial Public Security Department said police had arrested 12 milk dealers and suppliers who allegedly sold contaminated milk to Sanlu, and six people were charged with selling melamine. Three hundred kg of suspicious chemicals, including 223 kg of melamine, were confiscated. Among those arrested were two brothers who ran a milk collection centre in Hebei for allegedly supplying three tonnes of adulterated milk daily to the dairy; the owner of another collection centre which resold seven tons of milk a day to Sanlu, was arrested, and his operation was shut down.\n\nZhang Yujun (alias Zhang Haitao), a former dairy farmer from Hebei, produced more than 600 tons of a \"protein powder\" mixture of melamine and maltodextrin from September 2007 to August 2008. He and eight other traders, dairy farm owners and milk purchasers who bought the powder from him were arrested in early October, bringing the total to 36.\n\nDuring the week of 22 December 2008, 17 people involved in producing, selling, buying and adding melamine in raw milk went on trial. Tian Wenhua, former Sanlu general manager, and three other company executives appeared in court in Shijiazhuang, charged with producing and selling milk contaminated with melamine. According to \"Xinhua\", Tian pleaded guilty, and told the court she learned about the tainted milk complaints from consumers in mid-May. She then apparently headed a working team to handle the case, but did not report to the Shijiazhuang city government until 2 August.\n\nThe Intermediate People's Court in Shijiazhuang sentenced Zhang Yujun and Geng Jinping to death, and Tian Wenhua to life in prison, on 22 January 2009. Zhang was convicted for producing 800 tons of the contaminated powder, Geng for producing and selling toxic food. Geng Jinping managed a milk production center which supplied milk to Sanlu Group and other dairies. The \"China Daily\" reported Geng had knelt on the courtroom floor and begged the victim's families for forgiveness during the trial. The court also sentenced Sanlu deputy general managers Wang Yuliang and Hang Zhiqi to fifteen years and eight years in jail, respectively, and former manager Wu Jusheng to five years. Several defendants have appealed.\n\nZhang Yujun and Geng Jinping were executed on 24 November 2009.\n\nThe value of the company plunged as a result of the scandal. On 24 September, Fonterra announced it had written down the carrying value of its investment by NZ$139 million (two-thirds), reflecting the costs of product recall and the impairment of the 'Sanlu' brand because of the \"criminal contamination of milk\". By 27 September, \"China Daily\" reported Sanlu was close to bankruptcy, and might be taken over by the Beijing Sanyuan Foods Company. The company is also facing lawsuits from parents (see \"Anger at Sanlu\").\n\n\"The Beijing Review\" said Sanlu expects to have to pay compensation claims totaling ¥700 million, and it became clear the company would be broken up and sold.\n\nOn 25 December, Shijiazhuang court accepted a creditor's bankruptcy petition against Sanlu. Media commentators expected the Sanlu distribution network to be sold.\n\nOn 16 September, the AQSIQ released test of samples from 491 batches of products sold by all 109 companies producing baby formula. It said all 11 samples from Sanlu failed the melamine test. Sanlu, whose products sell at half the price of equivalents on the market, recorded the highest levels of contamination among all the samples tested, at 2,563 mg/kg or parts per million (\"ppm\"). Tainted samples were found among 21 other suppliers, where concentrations ranged from 0.09 to 619.00 ppm.\n\nThere was melamine contamination in 10% of liquid milk samples from Mengniu and Yili, and 6% of those from Bright Dairy. On discovery of contamination, the three major producers were all stripped of their status as 'Chinese national brands'. Yili, Mengniu and Bright Dairy & Food Co. recalled tainted powdered milk and apologised in separate statements. Mengniu recalled all its baby formula, and trading in its shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange was suspended on 17 September. Shares in other dairy companies fell strongly the next day. Mengniu's CFO attempted to reassure consumers by offering a no-quibble refund on all products, and by drinking liquid milk in front of reporters in Hong Kong. He also said that its export products were less likely to be contaminated.\n\nOn 30 September, the AQSIQ announced test results of a further 265 batches of powdered milk produced by 154 different companies prior to 14 September, where it found 31 batches produced by 20 domestic dairy companies were tainted with melamine.\n\nOn 1 December, China's Ministry of Health issued an update, saying nearly 300,000 babies were sickened after consuming melamine-contaminated infant formula. In response to the surge of contaminated Chinese products, the United States Food and Drug Administration opened its first overseas inspection offices in November 2008, with bureaus in Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou.\n\nThe State Council ordered the testing of product of all dairy producers, and to this end, some 5,000 inspectors were dispatched. The Chinese market has grown at an average annual rate of 23% since 2000. In 2006, milk production reached 30 million tons, ten times the volume of a decade before. It was valued at some ¥122 billion (US$18 billion) in 2007, and consumers had severely lost confidence in the industry.\n\nThe events have exposed the often-incestuous relationship between local business and local government. In addition to the tax revenues to local authorities—Sanlu contributed ¥330 million in 2007, many companies invite local officials to become \"silent partners\" in their corporations—in return for \"protection\" at the political level; former Sanlu chairman Tian Wenhua, was made honorary deputy to the Provincial People's Congress. The scandal has also highlighted structural problems of inadequate production volume, inherent quality issues, and poor production methods. The Inner Mongolia region produces over one-fourth of China's milk, and Mengniu and Yili have invested millions to establish state-of-the-art dairy facilities in its capital, Hohhot. The companies still rely on small-scale farmers for over 90% of their production because of the capacity constraint of the modern facilities. Both companies were said by farmers and agents to have habitually purchased milk which failed quality tests, for only two-thirds the normal price. A new policy was put in place on 17 September to stop that practice.\nConsumer panic resulting from the contaminated milk lessened demand for dairy products, causing hardship to more than 2 million Chinese farmers who had nowhere to sell their milk and no means by which to support their dairy cows. Farmers reportedly poured away milk and faced selling cows to a buyerless market.\n\nSince the scandal erupted, sales have fallen by 30–40% on a comparative basis, according to the Chinese Dairy Association. The Association estimates the financial effect of the order of ¥20 billion, and forecasts that confidence may take up to two years to be fully restored.\nIn an effort to prop up sales and retain their market share, dairy firms have cancelled their common accord not to use promotions to fight the sales decline: substantial discounts (including BOGOF), free gifts and other point of sale incentives were being offered to shoppers. Their new products are conspicuously labelled \"safety inspection passed\" to allay consumer fears.\n\nMengniu-Arla, joint-venture between Danish/Swedish co-operative Arla Foods and Mengniu halted production on 16 September 2008 after three of 28 tests taken from Mengniu showed traces of melamine; the contaminated batches had been recalled.\n\nMengniu, milk supplier to Starbucks, was replaced by Vitasoy when the coffee retailer eschewed milk in favour of soya milk in its China operations. KFC also suspended selling Mengniu milk.\n\nTokyo-headquartered Lotte Group, a major snacks maker, recalled its Koala's March cookies in Hong Kong and Macau because of contamination, and promised to \"look deeply into all the details of the manufacturing process\" to preserve customer confidence. The range was also ordered off Dutch and Slovakian shelves. Its Chocolate Pie was seized when samples tested positive in Malta.\n\nOn 29 September, British confectionery group Cadbury was forced to withdraw its 11 chocolate products in China on suspicion of melamine contamination, in turn causing it to close down its three factories in China. The recall affected the China markets, as well as Taiwan, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea and Australia. Tests in Hong Kong found excessive amounts of melamine in China-made \"Dairy Milk\" products.\n\nOn 30 September, Unilever recalled its \"Lipton\" milk tea powder after the company's internal checks found traces of melamine in the Chinese powdered milk used as an ingredient. Heinz recalled cases of baby cereal in Hong Kong after discovering they contained melamine. Nestlé's factory in Heilongjiang was also implicated: the Taiwanese Department of Health forced the delisting of six \"Neslac\" and \"KLIM\" products on 2 October for containing minute traces of melamine, although the minister said they did not pose a significant health risk.\n\nSince the milk crisis broke, Nestlé says it has sent 20 specialists from Switzerland to five of its Chinese plants to strengthen chemical testing. On 31 October, it announced the opening of a $10.2 million Beijing research and development centre, to \"serve as the base and the reference in food safety for Nestlé in Greater China.\" Nestlé Chief Technology Officer said the centre was equipped with \"highly sophisticated analytical tools for detecting trace amounts of residues and undesirable compounds like melamine or veterinary drugs or natural toxins\".\n\nThere were concerns dairy products consumed during the 2008 Summer Olympic games may have been contaminated. Li Changjiang, the then Director of AQSIQ reassured the international community that all the food, including dairy products, was indeed safe. \"We took special quality management measures aimed at food supply for the Games.\"\n\nPRC Customs said exports of dairy products and eggs in 2007 were valued at US$359 million, a year-on-year increase of 90 percent. Since the news of the melamine contamination began to circulate, at least 25 countries stopped importing Chinese dairy products. A number of countries had imposed blanket bans on Chinese milk products or its derivatives—among which were\nBangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei, Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Gabon, India, Côte d'Ivoire, Maldives, Mali, Mexico, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, South Korea, Suriname, Tanzania, Togo, and the United Arab Emirates —joining Indonesia, Taiwan, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia which had also imposed specific bans on Chinese dairy products which tested positive for melamine.\n\nThe scandal destroyed all trust in locally produced infant formula, and since then many Shenzhen residents and parallel traders travel across the border to purchase powdered milk from Hong Kong shops. Lower confidence in Chinese production, combined with the relaxation of visa requirements for mainland citizens, had resulted in \"severe\" shortages of infant formula in Hong Kong for an extended time. Because of a great public outcry, the Import and Export (General) (Amendment) Regulation 2013 was passed in Hong Kong, prohibiting the unlicensed export of powdered formula, including milk and soya milk powder for infants and children under 36 months. According to the HK government, the regulation is not applicable to \"powdered formula that is exported in the accompanied personal baggage of a person aged 16 or above leaving Hong Kong if the person did not leave Hong Kong in the last 24 hours and the formula does not exceed 1.8 kg in total net weight.\"\n\nAlthough the Hong Kong government imposed a strict 2-can limit on the export of infant formula in March 2013, spurred price differentials caused by sales tax on the mainland and lax customs, trafficking activity including for powdered milk continues, exacerbating Hong Kong-Mainland conflict. The catchment area for traffickers has spread from Fan Ling and Sheung Shui southward to Yuen Long and Tuen Mun, causing localist groups such as Civic Passion and Hong Kong Indigenous to take to the streets in direct action in 2015.\n\nOn 25 September 2008, the EU announced a ban on imports of baby food containing Chinese milk. The European Commission also called for tighter checks on other Chinese food imports; isolated contaminated products were found in the Netherlands, and the French authorities ordered all Chinese dairy products off the shelves; Tesco removed White Rabbit as a precaution from its stores in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn the United States of America, which was otherwise unaffected by the scares, the US distributor of White Rabbit candies recalled the product when samples found in Hartford showed traces of melamine. The candy's maker and subsidiary of Bright Foods, Guan Sheng Yuan, issued a recall to the 50 countries to which it exported.\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration said while food containing melamine below 2.5 parts per million generally did not raise concerns, its scientists were \"currently unable to establish any level of melamine and melamine-related compounds in infant formula that does not raise public health concerns\". On 12 November 2008, the FDA issued a general alert against all finished food products from China, saying that information received from government sources in a number of countries indicates a wide range and variety of products from a variety of producers have been manufactured using melamine-contaminated milk was a recurring problem. In late November, after FDA found traces of melamine in one Nestle and one Mead Johnson infant product, the FDA concluded melamine or cyanuric acid alone, \"at or below 1 part per million in infant formula do not raise public health concerns\" in babies.\n\nThe European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) warned that children who ate large amounts of confectionery and biscuits with high milk content could theoretically be consuming melamine at more than three times above prescribed EU safety limits (0.5 mg/kg of body weight). The EFSA said children with a mean consumption of products such as milk toffee, biscuits and chocolate containing contaminated powdered milk would not be at risk, and adults would not be at risk even in the worst-case scenarios.\n\nThe World Health Organization, which was only notified on 11 September, asked Beijing why it took so many months for the scandal to become public, and to establish whether failure was deliberate or due to ignorance. WHO's representative in China, Hans Troedsson, said the issue of who knew what and when was critical \"... Because if it was ignorance, there is a need to have much better training and education ... if it is neglect, then it is, of course, more serious.\"\n\nFollowing a spate of mass national bans, the WHO urged national food safety authorities on 25 September 2008 to test Chinese dairy products for health risks before slapping on import bans or recalls. WHO and UNICEF also jointly decried the \"particularly deplorable ... deliberate contamination of foods intended for ... vulnerable infants and young children\" On 26 September, the WHO warned health officials around the world to be alert for dairy products of Chinese origin that could be tainted. Anthony Hazzard, the Western Pacific director of the World Health Organization said countries had been advised by the International Food Safety Authorities (INFOSAN) to focus particularly on smuggled formula.\n\nThe WHO referred to the incident as one of the largest food safety events it has had to deal with in recent years. It says the crisis of confidence among Chinese consumers would be hard to overcome. It saw regulation failing to keep pace with the rapid development of the food and industrial production as opening the gates to all types of misbehaviour and malfeasance. The spokesman said the scale of the problem proved it was \"clearly not an isolated accident, [but] a large-scale intentional activity to deceive consumers for simple, basic, short-term profits.\"\n\nWHO Director-General Margaret Chan reminded Chinese mothers that babies not breastfed were being deprived of the best nutrition offered by nature, while risking being exposed to the effects of melamine. She added: \"We need to try our very best to tell [mothers] the difference [between breast milk and formula]. Of course breastfeeding is the best food for babies.\" Chan said the melamine-in-milk scandal showed \"the impact and power of globalisation\" in food distribution and highlighted \"the importance of seamless cooperation from farm to consumer\".\n\nThe case has brought anger and resentment towards milk producers and sowed uncertainty and confusion amongst the population. Queues formed outside Sanlu's offices for refunds. The Sanlu website was hacked several times and its name as displayed in the header bar changed to 三聚氰胺集团 (\"The Melamine Group\") in a play of words on the character \"三\" (number 3), which is the first word of Sanlu's Chinese name: 三鹿 (Three Deer); \"Melamine\" was also added as a product name by a hacker. As has been increasingly common practice, web users vented their anger on internet bulletin boards. Prevalent food scares have increased the number of online parodies circulated by netizens. Those inspired by Sanlu have been along themes of passing the buck, stones, or the virtues of not being able to urinate. Celebrities who have endorsed dairy products have also been mocked in photoshopped images.\n\nBefore the government began offering free medical treatment, some parents had reportedly spent small fortunes on medical care for their sick children. Children who fell ill before the scandal broke on 12 September were not entitled to free medical care offered by the State. Parents of two such victims, one from Henan and one from Guangdong, filed writs against Sanlu despite government pressure. Parents of the Henan child had claimed ¥150,000 for medical, travel and other expenses incurred after their child developed kidney stones. On 20 October, the parents of one baby who died from contaminated milk appealed to New Zealand for justice on TV ONE. They were quoted as saying the perpetrators of the milk scandal responsible for the death of their child deserved to \"die a thousand deaths\". A total of nine cases were filed against Sanlu in Shijiazhuang. Following weeks of discussions, and in the absence of a compensation plan, a group of 15 lawyers filed a collective suit on behalf of 100 families against Sanlu, seeking medical and other expenses as well as compensation for trauma and for death of an offspring.\n\nThere is growing resentment towards the country's leaders due to the perception that they are not troubled by the food security turmoil faced by ordinary citizens: in a speech delivered by Zhu Yonglan (祝詠蘭), Director of the State Council Central Government Offices Special Food Supply Centre (CGOSFSC) in August 2008, Zhu disclosed that her firm had been set up in 2004 to source high-quality, all-organic foodstuffs from farms working under the strictest guidelines, for supply to top political leaders, their families and retired cadres.\n\nPremier Wen Jiabao apologised to the nation, saying he felt \"extremely guilty\" about the poisoned milk products, in the same way he had previously asked the people's pardon for the deaths of coal miners, polluted drinking water, and train passengers stranded by the authorities' inadequate response to the severe snowstorm during the New Year.\n\nAuthor Qin Geng (秦耕) said: \"The big picture in this case was the interest of one-party rule above anything, not that they would put the safety of the people first\". Qin concluded what the Chinese public were told by the state-controlled media the contamination of milk is a well orchestrated process, and they are \"very sad, very frightened and very concerned\".\n\nPoorer consumers reliant on local infant formula, which is approximately half the price of imported brands, have been left without alternatives to feed their children. Many have now lost faith in local brands, and others are uncertain which brands are safe. Supermarket shelves have been swept bare from product recalls. Shops in Hong Kong have reported a rush for imported formula from cross-border shoppers, and some retailers are reportedly rationing their stocks. Mainlanders have also been rushing to import infant formula from Kinmen. Wet nurses are enjoying a resurgence in popularity in major cities. New Zealand media reported Chinese sailors and expatriates have been buying local dairy produce for sending back to relatives in China. It is estimated that up to 80% to 90% of infant formula purchased in Australia is destined for China. \n\nThe melamine food scare became a focal point against the warming relations between Taiwan's government and the Chinese government, and a major demonstration was held by the opposition Democratic Progressive Party on 25 October 2008 to voice dissatisfaction with Taiwan's increasingly closer ties with Beijing, notably related to the incident. Protesters fearful at reunification blamed the Kuomintang for the melamine scare, and criticised it for failing to stand up to China over the contamination. One citizen voiced concern that President Ma Ying-jeou's promise for closer ties with China would bring in more tainted products to Taiwan. The Minister of the Department of Health, Lin Fang-you, was heavily criticised for raising the legally acceptable limit of melamine in food products from zero to 2.5 ppm. The public outcry subsequent to the move forced Lin to resign. His successor, Yeh Ching-chuan, announced a return to the original zero-tolerance policy to melamine.\n\nAQSIQ announced the revocation of all exemptions from inspection previously granted to dairy producers, who were asked to cease citing the privilege in their advertisements. The State Council ordered an overhaul of the dairy industry, and promised to provide free medical care to those affected. Formally, the State Council released its initial findings, and a top-level official apology of the incident both came on 21 September. Wen Jiabao apologised while visiting victims in hospitals.\nCPC general secretary Hu Jintao said on 1 October 2008: \"Food safety is directly linked to the well-being of the broad masses and the competence of a company ... Chinese companies should learn from the lessons of the Sanlu tainted milk powder incident.\"\n\nOn 6 October 2008, putting the blame on \"illegal production and greed\", the country's \"chaotic dairy production and distribution order\", and the \"gravely absent supervision\" for the crisis, the State Council announced new dairy industry regulations.\n\nOn 9 October 2008, in an attempt to control the damage to Chinese dairy exports, officials at a World Trade Organization meeting insisted that contamination had been \"accidental\", directly contradicting the WHO observations. Chinese trade representatives criticised countries which have imposed blanket bans on Chinese food products. They urged member states to base import restrictions on scientific risk assessments, and to use official WTO notification mechanisms. On 11 October, Deputy Health minister Liu Qian stated that all the foreign companies' application for compensation for dairy products recall would be dealt with on a commercial basis, although government may use diplomatic channels if necessary, if problems were encountered.\n\nAccording to a senior quality inspectorate official, the government aimed to establish nearly 400 product testing centres within the next two years, and 80 of these would be food testing centres. Working groups were established in nearly every single province in order to set up new food testing centres and replace outdated equipment.\n\nOn 24 September 2008, China's newly appointed AQSIQ chief Wang Yong said that the government would \"carry out 'forceful' measures to deal with the chemical contamination\"; it's inspectors had removed 7,000 tonnes of melamine contaminated dairy products from shops all over China.\n\nOn 4 October, the Ministry of Agriculture announced it had drawn up an emergency rescue plan with the Ministry of Finance to give special subsidies to dairy farmers, seriously affected by the lack of demand following the contamination scandal; local governments had already drafted policies to stabilise the dairy industry; 150,000 officials had been sent to overhaul the entire supply chains from cattle feed to milk collection; 18,803 milk-collecting stations had been registered and checked by these officials. The ministry was reported to have investigated 98 dairy producers and farms, banned 151 illegal companies and indicted three manufacturers for feed containing melamine. During an investigation into melamine contamination at Yili and Mengniu in Hohhot, police arrested six more people for allegedly selling and mixing melamine into raw milk. The AQSIQ announced on 5 October that all tests showed all milk produced after 14 September were free from contamination. The General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine stated all dairy products made before 14 September will be tested for melamine. They gave notice to all supermarkets, shops, and all city, town and village-level vendors to urgently remove and seal up all powdered milk and liquid milk made before 14 September, pending further testing.\n\nThe Ministry of Health and five other government agencies issued a joint statement on 9 October, setting the legally acceptable level of melamine content in infant formula at 1 ppm (1 mg/kg), and at 2.5ppm in other dairy products (including milk). The Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention said that any amount exceeding 1 ppm would give reason to suspect its presence was intentional.\"\n\nOn 26 September 2008, in order to quell the disquiet over the speech by Zhu Yonglan of the CGOSFSC regarding leaders' insulation from the food-security issues faced by the general population, Xinhua issued a brief statement, in Chinese, denying the existence of the Centre, the award, or any person named Zhu Yonglan, saying these were \"purely rumours\".\n\nOn 16 September, the AQSIQ tests on baby milk powder produced by 109 companies showed 69 batches from 22 companies to be melamine-contaminated; the State Council attempted to reassure that formula produced by most companies in China was safe. It said: \"the number of companies with melamine-tainted milk accounted for 20.18% of the total of powdered milk companies in China; the number of tainted batches accounted for 14.05% of the total batches tested.\" On 30 September, the AQSIQ said its tests on 265 batches from 154 companies showed that \"only 18%\" had tested positive for melamine: \"of the 290 dairies nationwide 154 dairies, representing 87% market share, 134 of these dairies had tested negative for melamine.\"\n\nOn 16 September, the AQSIQ published results of tests on 408 liquid milk producers, and found \"most dairy products were safe to drink\", although the test results showed nearly 10 percent of batches from Mengniu, Yili and Bright were contaminated.\n\nThe government stressed that no new cases of melamine-related illnesses had been detected since 20 September, and that test results on samples from 31 brands of baby formula, 84 brands powder for adult consumption, and 75 domestic brands of liquid milk produced after 14 September did not contain melamine, the AQSIQ said. To demonstrate that its emergency measures had been effective, the Ministry of Agriculture said the rate of raw milk dumping because of the contamination scandal has decreased from 23.6% on 22 September to 4.6% on 1 October.\n\nBehind the scenes, China's media was ordered to tone down coverage of the unfolding scandal to prevent unrest. News editors were ordered to adhere to the official copy of \"Xinhua\". Traditionally, media knows to avoid negative news coverage, and CCTV shifted reporting emphasis on the forthcoming launch of Shenzhou VII. The announcement of the AQSIQ test results was relegated to the final item on the CCTV evening news.\n\n\"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that the suppression of bad news had not improved since the scandal was uncovered: media rigidly adheres to the official line, as ordered; Chinese consumers were ill-informed about the extent of global recalls. It reported local journalists saying that discussion of the causes of the crisis, government responsibility, questions about government complicity with dairy companies, was strictly off limits.\n\nOn 2 January, a website created by individuals protesting against Sanlu was also blocked by the authorities. A group of parents whose children were rendered ill by melamine-contaminated milk held a news conference to draw attention to the plight of their sick children; five were allegedly detained by police and taken to a labour camp outside Beijing. They were released a day later.\n\nA group of 90 lawyers from Hebei, Henan and Shandong—the three worst affected provinces—had made \"pro bono\" offers to assist victims, and a list of their names was published. Organisers of the group declared that they had come under pressure from officials to not get involved in the issue. The Beijing Lawyers' Association, a part of the Communist Party apparatus, asked its members \"to put faith in the party and government\". Other members of the group have reportedly received less subtle requests. Authorities are said to fear social unrest if lawsuits were unleashed. Pro-Beijing Hong Kong journal \"Ta Kung Pao\" reported that central authorities, fearful of the effect of mass lawsuits, held a meeting with lawyers' groups on 14 September, asking them to \"act together, and help maintain stability\".\n\nChang Boyang, one of the group of volunteer lawyers, said he had filed a suit in Guangdong against Sanlu on behalf of the parents of one victim. One was already filed in Henan. Chang said that Henan's justice department had ordered 14 Henan lawyers to stop helping the kidney stone victims, saying it had become a political issue. He claims he was told by the official to \"follow the arrangements set out by the government\", and was further threatened: \"If this suggestion is disobeyed, the lawyer and the firm will be dealt with.\" Zhang Yuanxin, lawyer and officer in the Xinjiang Lawyers' Association said that the actions of certain departments in government have \"set back the development of the legal profession\". He said that it was \"intolerable\" for government to interfere in the affairs of the judiciary, denying the right of ordinary citizens to sue.\n\nAn official said that central government had issued instructions placing the cases on hold, pending a decision on how to handle the cases in a unified manner. Furthermore, that court was instructed not to give any written replies or accept Sanlu-related cases in the meantime.\n\nStratfor believed that the act of adulterating milk and baby food in full knowledge of potentially severe sanctions, including execution, seemed like \"an act of desperation\". It noted that in 2008 dairy farmers became squeezed by growing costs of livestock, feed, facilities, and government-imposed price caps. Mengniu's share price fell 12% since October 2007 because of higher costs of raw milk (due partly to rising costs of cattle feed) and price controls—anti-inflation measures targeted at the dairy sector announced on 16 January. Milk suppliers accordingly resorted to subtler cost-cutting methods to preserve diminishing profits.\n\nJoseph Sternberg of \"the Wall Street Journal\" said that Beijing's failures of food-safety act are \"much more pernicious, and disgraceful, than at first it appears ... [not only has this] milk poisoned thousands of infants with melamine, it also poisons the society at large with fear\". Lawyer Bill Marler, speaking at a food safety conference in Beijing, said that this food scare has harmed the \"made in China\" brand abroad. He remarked: \"If this product had gotten into the United States, it would have been 'game over' for a lot of products in China.\"\n\nAn op-ed in \"the New York Times\" compared this to the \"swill milk scandal\" in New York in the 1850s in which 8,000 children reportedly died from milk from cows fed swill which was then whitened with plaster of Paris, thickened with starch, eggs and hued with molasses\".\nAn article published in the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" likened the regulatory failures of the milk scandal to the distressed assets in the subprime mortgage crisis, and questioned whether regulators in either case ever understood or truly monitored the extent of the danger.\n\nLouis Klarevas, a professor at New York University's Center for Global Affairs, said of the products on the list of potentially harmful products reaching the US in recent years were exclusive to China: \"Yet as more large-scale labor markets compete for their share of international trade, the incentives to cut corners will increase and the temptation to overlook hazardous goods might become a more common occurrence.\"\n\nOn a more positive note Bill Durodié, then a senior fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore noted in 10 November 2008 issue of the \"Today\" newspaper there, in response to a question suggesting there may be more such incidents in future due to the more liberal trading relations with China, that: \"exposing the Chinese to the world market is probably the fastest way of addressing these issues.\"\n\nRon Unz compares the Chinese government and media reaction favorably to the coverage of the Vioxx scandal in the US, saying that \"American journalists seemed to focus more attention on a half-dozen fatalities in China than they did on the premature deaths of as many as 500,000 of their fellow American citizens\".\n\nHu Xingdou (胡星斗), a professor at Beijing Institute of Technology, said: \"There hasn't been an effort to establish a moral foundation to the market economy, and this incident is the inevitable result.\" Hu urged the leadership to transform the way of thinking, to repair the system, rather than dealing with problems as they arise.\n\nThe dairy scandal raises the core question of whether the ruling Communist Party is capable of creating a transparent, accountable regulatory structure within a one-party system. \"Time Magazine\" cited many analysts saying the party's need to maintain control of the economy and of information undermines the independence of any regulatory system. One analyst, Willy Lam, a Senior Fellow at The Jamestown Foundation, indicated that CCP's pervasive control over political and economic resources has resulted in the absence of meaningful systematic checks and balances. \"Institutions that could provide some oversight over party and government authorities—for example, the legislature, the courts or the media—are tightly controlled by CCP apparatchiks.\" A Beijing-based consultancy, Dragonomics, concurred that \"the problem was rooted in the Communist Party's continued involvement in pricing control, company management and the flow of information\". Independent regulation was lacking or ineffective as local industries' were so intertwined with local officialdom.\n\n\"The Times\" noted that while one child in 20 in Shanghai may have kidney damage as a result of drinking contaminated formula milk, on the other hand, \"like the emperors of old, the new communist elite enjoy the finest produce from all over China, sourced by a high-security government department.\"\n\nAccess Asia, a Shanghai-based consumer consultancy, said Fonterra was a classic example of western executives in China \"believ[ing] advice in business books that they must avoid making their local partners 'lose face' at all costs.\" It suggested that Fonterra paid a heavy price in write-offs, a wrecked business and public condemnation.\n\n\"Caijing\" said the crisis revealed that there had been a \"serious dereliction of duty\" at the AQSIQ, and that the government had failed as a \"night watchman\". Citing public consensus that government should limit itself to a supervisory role, it urged the construction of a regulatory system which addressed the role of regulators watching over the production process, avoiding over-regulation, 'regulatory capture' and abuse of power by regulators. \"Keeping the market in order and ensuring independent law enforcement should be part of the mandate.\"\n\nDavid Bandurski, journalist and researcher at China Media Project, criticised the crippling media controls by the state combined with \"runaway commercial greed\", and said that the censorship \"suppresses information critical to the well-being of ordinary Chinese\". He asserted that increased press freedom needs to be a component of any strategy to deal with this and other future food-security lapses in China. Free media in China could compensate for the underdeveloped rule of law, and be important in keeping companies and regulators honest. Bandurski cited warnings in the 9 October 2008 issues of \"Nanfang Daily\" and the \"Information Times\" for consumers to be aware of that problematic dairy stock (that produced before 14 September) have reappeared in some stores under cover of aggressive promotions.\n\nFormer senior party official Bao Tong said \"the more dark secrets are exposed, the better. You can't cure the disease, or save the Chinese people, until you get to the root of the problem.\" \"If the Chinese government tries to play down this incident, there will be no social stability in China, let alone harmony ... It will mean that this government has lost the most basic level of trust.\"\n\nAs a reaction to and comment on the scandal, Chinese artist and video animation producer Pi San created \"Little Rabbit, Be Good\" as part of his popular Kuang Kuang video series. Though officially banned or forbidden by the Chinese government, clever use of Chinese web services such as Baidu allows Chinese citizens to access this and many other forbidden materials.\n\nThe search widened when some manufacturers tested positive despite reportedly not using Chinese milk. The Sri Lankan manufacturer of \"Munchee Lemon Puff\" biscuits, having tested positive in Switzerland, categorically stated that its powdered milk or milk products were sourced only from Australia, the Netherlands and Canada; similarly, Pokka products without milk or its derivatives from China were found by Vietnamese authorities to be contaminated.\n\nJapanese and South Korean authorities' tests on imported powdered eggs from China found melamine contamination. Japan found melamine in frozen fried chicken imported from China. The South Korean supplies were traced to two companies in Dalian. On 26 October, Hong Kong authorities discovered 4.7ppm melamine in eggs from Dalian. Hong Kong Secretary for Food and Health, York Chow, suspected the melamine came from feed given to the chickens that laid the eggs. On 29 October, Hong Kong authorities discovered a third batch of eggs containing excessive melamine. The Taiwanese Department of Health said that six batches of protein powder from Jilin and Dalian were found to contain 1.90 to 5.03ppm of melamine.\n\nAgriculture officials speculated that adulterated feed given to hens could explain melamine in eggs. The Web sites of \"Xinhua\" and \"People's Daily\" both carried a story from the \"Nanfang Daily\" that mixing melamine into animal feed was an \"open secret\" in the industry: melamine scrap was mixed into an inexpensive \"protein powder\" resold to feed suppliers. People in the trade interviewed by \"BusinessWeek\" also confirmed it was common practice, and had been going on for \"years\", with most believing it to be non-toxic to animals. Melamine dealers said after Sanlu, the government started clamping down on melamine sales to food processing companies or to manufacturers of animal feed.\n\nMalaysian authorities determined that ammonium bicarbonate, not milk, imported from China was the source of contamination at Khong Guan and Khian Guan biscuit factory.\nMalaysian authorities said it was probable cross contamination of batches from Chinese companies Broadtech Chemical Int. Co Ltd, Dalian Chemical Industries and Tianjin Red Triangle International Trading Co, and did not suspect adulteration. On 19 October, Taiwanese authorities detected melamine in 469 tons of baking ammonia imported from China. Samples tested showed up to 2,470ppm of melamine.\n\nJorgen Schlundt, head of food safety at the WHO criticised China's food-safety system for being \"disjointed\", saying that \"poor communications between ministries and agencies may have prolonged the outbreak of melamine poisoning.\"\n\nPublic concerns have resulted in demand and egg prices falling throughout the country. Prices at a large Beijing wholesale market dropped 10%, and prices fell by 10% the day after news of the contamination broke in Hong Kong. Wholesalers have refused stock products without melamine inspection certificates. The \"Beijing Youth Daily\" reported that farmers have been forced to slaughter tens of thousands of chickens.\n\nIn 2008, Zhao Lianhai (赵连海), a Chinese man whose son was sickened by tainted milk earlier that year, started a website called \"Home for the Kidney Stone Babies\" (结石宝宝之家, jieshibaobao.com), which helped families with children affected by tainted milk share their experiences, in part by maintaining a database of medical records. The website upset Chinese authorities, who detained Zhao in November 2009 and arrested him in December 2009.\n\nThe Chinese government said that producers violating the law \"could have their licenses revoked and be handed over to law enforcement organs\". A senior Agriculture Ministry official said that of a quarter of a million feed-makers and animal farms inspected for melamine contamination, inspectors found more than 500 engaged in \"illegal or questionable practices\". Some 3,700 tonnes of feed with excessive melamine were seized.\n\nHong Kong regulators have requested certification of exported eggs, but the central government has not yet mounted a centralised response; although mainland authorities already require eggs to be certified as free of avian influenza and Sudan red dye prior to export following previous food-safety scares, the AQSIQ has declined nationwide testing. Local government, for example Guangdong authorities, have increased random inspections at poultry farms. They declared to \"harshly crack down on the unlawful behaviour of illegally manufacturing, selling and using melamine\".\n\nOn 2 December 2009, China detained three employees of Shaanxi Jinqiao Dairy Company in northwest China suspected of selling 5.25 tons of melamine-laced powdered milk to Nanning Yueqian Food Additive Company, in Guangxi. On 30 December 2009, Xinhua reported continuing problems: powder and flavouring products sold by another company involved in the original scandal–the Shanghai Panda Dairy Company–were found to contain illegal levels of melamine; the dairy was closed and three of its executives arrested. On 25 January 2010, it was reported that three food companies from Hebei, Liaoning and Shandong provinces had produced melamine tainted products in March and April 2009 and that the three companies were banned from selling products in Guizhou. On 10 February 2010 China's state council announced a food safety commission, consisting of three vice premiers and a dozen minister-level officials, to address the nation's food regulatory problems. The group aims to improve government coordination and enforcement and to solve systemic food safety problems. As part of its ongoing effort to find and destroy any melamine-tainted milk remaining on the market, the Chinese government announced that it was recalling 170 tons of powdered milk laced with the industrial chemical which was supposed to have been destroyed or buried in 2008 but has recently found to have been repackaged and placed back into the marketplace.\n\nIn July 2010, Xinhua reported that authorities had seized 64 tonnes of dairy product contaminated with melamine from Dongyuan Dairy Factory, in Minhe County, in Qinghai, after authorities in Gansu discovered the contaminated powdered milk. Approximately 38 tonnes of raw materials had been purchased from Hebei, raising the possibility that traders had bought tainted milk that was supposed to have been destroyed after the 2008 scandal. Police have detained the owner and production director of the factory. Powdered milk produced in the plant was mainly sold in Zhejiang and Jiangsu, with only a small amount sold in Qinghai. Also, in Jilin, authorities were testing samples of suspect powdered milk produced in Heilongjiang.\n\nAt the end of June 2010, Beijing lowered the minimum protein level for raw milk, from 2.955 to 2.8%, to discourage dairy farmers from attempting to falsify the passing of protein tests. Wu Heping, secretary general of the Heilongjiang Dairy Industry Association noted that between 75% and 90% of raw milk in some provinces had failed to reach the old protein level standard (in place since 1986) in 2007 and 2008. He said that the new standard reflected \"the reality of the domestic dairy farm industry\". However, insiders believe this will not stop adulteration because milk price still depends on protein content.\n\n\nVerbatim quote\n\nFor verification purposes, the following are relevant citations in Chinese from the \"Caijing\" article dated 29 September 2008\nFor verification purposes, the following are relevant citations in Chinese from the Nanfang Daily article dated 9 October 2008\n"}
{"id": "238212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=238212", "title": "Abnormal psychology", "text": "Abnormal psychology\n\nAbnormal psychology is the branch of psychology that studies unusual patterns of behavior, emotion and thought, which may or may not be understood as precipitating a mental disorder. Although many behaviors could be considered as abnormal, this branch of psychology generally deals with behavior in a clinical context. There is a long history of attempts to understand and control behavior deemed to be aberrant or deviant (statistically, functionally, morally or in some other sense), and there is often cultural variation in the approach taken. The field of abnormal psychology identifies multiple causes for different conditions, employing diverse theories from the general field of psychology and elsewhere, and much still hinges on what exactly is meant by \"abnormal\". There has traditionally been a divide between psychological and biological explanations, reflecting a philosophical dualism in regard to the mind-body problem. There have also been different approaches in trying to classify mental disorders. Abnormal includes three different categories; they are subnormal, supernormal and paranormal.\n\nThe science of abnormal psychology studies two types of behaviors: adaptive and maladaptive behaviors. Behaviors that are maladaptive suggest that some problem(s) exist, and can also imply that the individual is vulnerable and cannot cope with environmental stress, which is leading them to have problems functioning in daily life in their emotions, mental thinking, physical actions and talks. Behaviors that are adaptive are ones that are well-suited to the nature of people, their lifestyles and surroundings, and to the people that they communicate with, allowing them to understand each other. \nClinical psychology is the applied field of psychology that seeks to assess, understand and treat psychological conditions in clinical practice. The theoretical field known as 'abnormal psychology' may form a backdrop to such work, but clinical psychologists in the current field are unlikely to use the term 'abnormal' in reference to their practice. Psychopathology is a similar term to abnormal psychology but has more of an implication of an underlying pathology (disease process), and as such is a term more commonly used in the medical specialty known as psychiatry.\n\nThroughout time, societies have proposed several explanations of abnormal behavior within human beings. Beginning in some hunter-gatherer societies, animists have believed that people demonstrating abnormal behavior are possessed by malevolent spirits. This idea has been associated with trepanation, the practice of cutting a hole into the individual's skull in order to release the malevolent spirits. Although it has been difficult to define abnormal psychology, one definition includes characteristics such as statistical infrequency.\n\nA more formalized response to spiritual beliefs about abnormality is the practice of exorcism. Performed by religious authorities, exorcism is thought of as another way to release evil spirits who cause pathological behavior within the person. In some instances, individuals exhibiting unusual thoughts or behaviors have been exiled from society or worse. Perceived witchcraft, for example, has been punished by death. Two Catholic Inquisitors wrote the \"Malleus Maleficarum\" (Latin for \"The Hammer Against Witches\"), that was used by many Inquisitors and witch-hunters. It contained an early taxonomy of perceived deviant behavior and proposed guidelines for prosecuting deviant individuals.\n\nThe act of placing mentally ill individuals in a separate facility known as an asylum dates to 1547, when King Henry VIII of England established the St. Mary of Bethlehem asylum in London. This hospital, nicknamed Bedlam, was famous for its deplorable conditions. Asylums remained popular throughout the Middle Ages and the Renaissance era. These early asylums were often in miserable conditions. Patients were seen as a “burden” to society and locked away and treated almost as beasts to be dealt with rather than patients needing treatment. However, many of the patients received helpful medical treatment. There was scientific curiosity into abnormal behavior although it was rarely investigated in the early asylums. Inmates in these early asylums were often put on display for profit as they were viewed as less than human. The early asylums were basically modifications of the existing criminal institutions.\n\nIn the late 18th century the idea of humanitarian treatment for the patients gained much favor due to the work of Philippe Pinel in France. He pushed for the idea that the patients should be treated with kindness and not the cruelty inflicted on them as if they were animals or criminals. His experimental ideas such as removing the chains from the patients were met with reluctance. The experiments in kindness proved to be a great success, which helped to bring about a reform in the way mental institutions would be run.. \nInstitutionalization would continue to improve throughout the 19th and 20th century due to work of many humanitarians such as Dorethea Dix, and the mental hygiene movement which promoted the physical well-being of the mental patients. \"Dix more than any other figure in the nineteenth century, made people in America and virtually all of Europe aware that the insane were being subjected to incredible abuses.\" Through this movement millions of dollars were raised to build new institutions to house the mentally ill. Mental hospitals began to grow substantially in numbers during the 20th century as care for the mentally ill increased in them.\n\nBy 1939 there were over 400,000 patients in state mental hospitals in the USA. Hospital stays were normally quite long for the patients, with some individuals being treated for many years. These hospitals while better than the asylums of the past were still lacking in the means of effective treatment for the patients, and even though the reform movement had occurred; patients were often still met with cruel and inhumane treatment.\n\nThings began to change in the year 1946 when Mary Jane Ward published the influential book titled “The Snake Pit” which was made into a popular movie of the same name. The book called attention to the conditions which mental patients faced and helped to spark concern in the general public to create more humane mental health care in these overcrowded hospitals.\n\nIn this same year the National Institute of Mental Health was also created which provided support for the training of hospital employees and research into the conditions which afflicted the patients. During this period the Hill-Burton Acts was also passed which was a program that funded mental health hospitals. Along with the Community Health Services Act of 1963, the Hill-Burton Acts helped with the creation of outpatient psychiatric clinics, inpatient general hospitals, and rehabilitation and community consultation centers.\n\nIn the late twentieth century however, a large number of mental hospitals were closed due to lack of funding and overpopulation. In England for example only 14 of the 130 psychiatric institutions that had been created in the early 20th century remained open at the start of the 21st century. In 1963, President John Kennedy launched the community health movement in the United States as a \"bold new approach\" to mental health care, aimed at coordinating mental health services for citizens in mental health centers. In the span of 40 years, the United States was able to see an about 90 percent drop in the number of patients in Psychiatric hospitals.\n\nThis trend was not only in the England and the United States but worldwide with countries like Australia having too many mentally ill patients and not enough treatment facilities. Recent studies have found that the prevalence of mental illness has not decreased significantly in the past 10 years, and has in fact increased in frequency regarding specific conditions such as anxiety and mood disorders.\n\nThis led to a large number of the patients being released while not being fully cured of the disorder they were hospitalized for. This became known as the phenomenon of deinstitutionalization. This movement had noble goals of treating the individuals outside of the isolated mental hospital by placing them into communities and support systems. Another goal of this movement was to avoid the potential negative adaptations that can come with long term hospital confinements. Many professionals for example were concerned that patients would find permanent refuge in mental hospitals which would take them up when the demands of everyday life were too difficult. However, the patients moved to the community living have not fared well typically, as they often speak of how they feel “abandoned” by the doctors who used to treat them. It also has had the unfortunate effect of placing many of the patients in homelessness. Many safe havens for the deinstitutionalized mentally ill have been created, but it is nevertheless estimated that around 26.2% of people who are currently homeless have some form of a mental illness. The placing of these individuals in homelessness is of major concern to their wellbeing as the added stress of living on the streets is not beneficial for the individual to recover from the particular disorder with which they are afflicted. In fact while some of the homeless who are able to find some temporary relief in the form of shelters, many of the homeless with a mental illness \"lack safe and decent shelter\".\n\nPeople have tried to explain and control abnormal behavior for thousands of years. Historically, there have been three main approaches to abnormal behavior: the supernatural, biological, and psychological traditions. Abnormal psychology revolves around two major paradigms for explaining mental disorders, the \"psychological\" paradigm and the \"biological\" paradigm. The psychological paradigm focuses more on the humanistic, cognitive and behavioral causes and effects of psychopathology. The biological paradigm includes the theories that focus more on physical factors, such as genetics and neurochemistry.\n\nIn the first supernatural tradition, also called the demonological method, abnormal behaviors are attributed to agents outside human bodies. According to this model, abnormal behaviors are caused by demons, spirits, or the influences of moon, planets, and stars. During the Stone Age, trepanning was performed on those who had mental illness to literally cut the evil spirits out of the victim's head. Conversely, Ancient Chinese, Ancient Egyptians, and Hebrews, believed that these were evil demons or spirits and advocated exorcism. By the time of the Greeks and Romans, mental illnesses were thought to be caused by an imbalance of the four humors, leading to draining of fluids from the brain. During the Medieval period, many Europeans believed that the power of witches, demons, and spirits caused abnormal behaviors. People with psychological disorders were thought to be possessed by evil spirits that had to be exercised through religious rituals. If exorcism failed, some authorities advocated steps such as confinement, beating, and other types of torture to make the body uninhabitable by witches, demons, and spirits. The belief that witches, demons, and spirits are responsible for the abnormal behavior continued into the 15th century. Swiss alchemist, astrologer, and physician Paracelsus (1493–1541), on the other hand, rejected the idea that abnormal behaviors were caused by witches, demons, and spirits and suggested that people's mind and behaviors were influenced by the movements of the moon and stars.\n\nThis tradition is still alive today. Some people, especially in the developing countries and some followers of religious sects in the developed countries, continue to believe that supernatural powers influence human behaviors. In Western academia, the supernatural tradition has been largely replaced by the biological and psychological traditions.\n\nIn the biological tradition, psychological disorders are attributed to biological causes and in the psychological tradition, disorders are attributed to faulty psychological development and to social context. The medical or biological perspective holds the belief that most or all abnormal behavior can be attributed to a medical factor; assuming all psychological disorders are diseases.\n\nThe Greek physician Hippocrates, who is considered to be the father of Western medicine, played a major role in the biological tradition. Hippocrates and his associates wrote the Hippocratic Corpus between 450 and 350 BC, in which they suggested that abnormal behaviors can be treated like any other disease. Hippocrates viewed the brain as the seat of consciousness, emotion, intelligence, and wisdom and believed that disorders involving these functions would logically be located in the brain.\n\nThese ideas of Hippocrates and his associates were later adopted by Galen, the Roman physician. Galen extended these ideas and developed a strong and influential school of thought within the biological tradition that extended well into the 18th century.\n\nMedical: Kendra Cherry states: \"The medical approach to abnormal psychology focuses on the biological causes on mental illness. This perspective emphasizes understanding the underlying cause of disorders, which might include genetic inheritance, related physical disorders, infections and chemical imbalances. Medical treatments are often pharmacological in nature, although medication is often used in conjunction with some other type of psychotherapy.\"\n\nAccording to Sigmund Freud's structural model, the Id, Ego and Superego are three theoretical constructs that define the way an individual interacts with the external world as well as responding to internal forces. The Id represents the instinctual drives of an individual that remain unconscious; the superego represents a person's conscience and their internalization of societal norms and morality; and finally the ego serves to realistically integrate the drives of the id with the prohibitions of the super-ego. Lack of development in the Superego, or an incoherently developed Superego within an individual, will result in thoughts and actions that are irrational and abnormal, contrary to the norms and beliefs of society.\n\nIrrational beliefs that are driven by unconscious fears, can result in abnormal behavior. Rational emotive therapy helps to drive irrational and maladaptive beliefs out of one's mind.\n\nThe term sociocultural refers to the various circles of influence on the individual ranging from close friends and family to the institutions and policies of a country or the world as a whole. Discriminations, whether based on social class, income, race, and ethnicity, or gender, can influence the development of abnormal behaviour.\n\nThe number of different theoretical perspectives in the field of psychological abnormality has made it difficult to properly explain psychopathology. The attempt to explain all mental disorders with the same theory leads to reductionism (explaining a disorder or other complex phenomena using only a single idea or perspective). Most mental disorders are composed of several factors, which is why one must take into account several theoretical perspectives when attempting to diagnose or explain a particular behavioral abnormality or mental disorder. Explaining mental disorders with a combination of theoretical perspectives is known as multiple causality.\n\nThe diathesis–stress model emphasizes the importance of applying multiple causality to psychopathology by stressing that disorders are caused by both precipitating causes and predisposing causes. A precipitating cause is an immediate trigger that instigates a person's action or behavior. A predisposing cause is an underlying factor that interacts with the immediate factors to result in a disorder. Both causes play a key role in the development of a psychological disorder. For example, high neuroticism antedates most types of psychopathology.\n\n\n\nThe standard abnormal psychology and psychiatry reference book in North America is the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of the American Psychiatric Association. The current version of the book is known as DSM-5. It lists a set of disorders and provides detailed descriptions on what constitutes a disorder such as Major Depressive Disorder or anxiety disorder. It also gives general descriptions of how frequently the disorder occurs in the general population, whether it is more common in males or females and other such facts.\n\nThe DSM-5 identifies three key elements that must be present to constitute a mental disorder. These elements include:\nThe diagnostic process uses five dimensions, each of which is identified as an \"axis\", to ascertain symptoms and overall functioning of the individual. It is important to note that the DSM-5 no longer uses this axis system. These axes are as follows:\n\nThe major international nosologic system for the classification of mental disorders can be found in the most recent version of the International Classification of Diseases, 10th revision (ICD-10). The ICD-10 has been used by World Health Organization (WHO) Member States since 1994. Chapter five covers some 300 mental and behavioral disorders. The ICD-10's chapter five has been influenced by APA's DSM-IV and there is a great deal of concordance between the two. WHO maintains free access to the ICD-10 Online. Below are the main categories of disorders:\n\nPsychologists may use different perspectives to try to get better understanding on abnormal psychology. Some of them may just concentrate on a single perspective. But the professionals prefer to combine two or three perspectives together in order to get significant information for better treatments.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPsychoanalytic theory is heavily based on the theory of the neurologist Sigmund Freud. These ideas often represented repressed emotions and memories from a patient's childhood. According to psychoanalytic theory, these repressions cause the disturbances that people experience in their daily lives and by finding the source of these disturbances, one should be able to eliminate the disturbance itself. This is accomplished by a variety of methods, with some popular ones being free association, hypnosis, and insight. The goal of these methods is to induce a catharsis or emotional release in the patient which should indicate that the source of the problem has been tapped and it can then be helped. Freud's psychosexual stages also played a key role in this form of therapy; as he would often believe that problems the patient was experiencing were due to them becoming stuck or \"fixated\" in a particular stage. Dreams also played a major role in this form of therapy as Freud viewed dreams as a way to gain insight into the unconscious mind. Patients were often asked to keep dream journals and to record their dreams to bring in for discussion during the next therapy session. There are many potential problems associated with this style of therapy, including resistance to the repressed memory or feeling, and negative transference onto the therapist. Psychoanalysis was carried on by many after Freud including his daughter Ana Freud and Jacques Lacan. These and many others have gone on to elaborate on Freud's original theory and to add their own take on defense mechanisms or dream analysis. While psychoanalysis has fallen out of favor to more modern forms of therapy it is still used by some clinical psychologists to varying degrees.\n\nBehavior therapy relies on the principles of behaviorism, such as involving classical and operant conditioning. Behaviorism arose in the early 20th century due to the work of psychologists such as James Watson and B. F. Skinner. Behaviorism states that all behaviors humans do is because of a stimulus and reinforcement. While this reinforcement is normally for good behavior, it can also occur for maladaptive behavior. In this therapeutic view, the patients maladaptive behavior has been reinforced which will cause the maladaptive behavior to be repeated. The goal of the therapy is to reinforce less maladaptive behaviors so that with time these adaptive behaviors will become the primary ones in the patient.\n\nHumanistic therapy aims to achieve self-actualization (Carl Rogers, 1961). In this style of therapy, the therapist will focus on the patient themselves as opposed to the problem which the patient is afflicted with. The overall goal of this therapy is that by treating the patient as \"human\" instead of client will help get to the source of the problem and hopefully resolve the problem in an effective manner. Humanistic therapy has been on the rise in recent years and has been associated with numerous positive benefits. It is considered to be one of the core elements needed therapeutic effectiveness and a significant contributor to not only the well being of the patient but society as a whole. Some say that all of the therapeutic approaches today draw from the humanistic approach in some regard and that humanistic therapy is the best way for treat a patient. Humanistic therapy can be used on people of all ages; however, it is very popular among children in its variant known as \"play therapy\". Children are often sent to therapy due to outburst that they have in a school or home setting, the theory is that by treating the child in a setting that is similar to the area that they are having their disruptive behavior, the child will be more likely to learn from the therapy and have an effective outcome. In play therapy, the clinicians will \"play\" with their client usually with toys, or a tea party. Playing is the typical behavior of a child and therefore playing with the therapist will come as a natural response to the child. In playing together the clinician will ask the patient questions but due to the setting; the questions no longer seem intrusive and therapeutic more like a normal conversation. This should help the patient realizes issues they have and confess them to the therapist with less difficulty than they may experience in a traditional counselling setting.\n\nCognitive behavioural therapy aims to influence thought and cognition (Beck, 1977). This form of therapy relies on not only the components of behavioral therapy as mentioned before, but also the elements of cognitive psychology. This relies on not only the clients behavioral problems that could have arisen from conditioning; but also there negative schemas, and distorted perceptions of the world around them. These negative schemas may be causing distress in the life of the patient; for example the schemas may be giving them unrealistic expectations for how well they should perform at their job, or how they should look physically. When these expectations are not met it will often result in maladaptive behaviors such as depression, obsessive compulsions, and anxiety. With cognitive behavior therapy; the goal is to change the schemas that are causing the stress in a persons life and hopefully replace them with more realistic ones. Once the negative schemas have been replaced, it will hopefully cause a remission of the patients symptoms. CBT is considered particularly effective in the treatment of depression and has even been used lately in group settings. It is felt that using CBT in a group setting aids in giving its members a sense of support and decreasing the likelihood of them dropping out of therapy before the treatment has had time to work properly. CBT has been found to be an effective treatments for many patients even those who do not have diseases and disorders typically thought of as psychiatric ones. For example, patients with the disease multiple sclerosis have found a lot of help using CBT. The treatment often helps the patients cope with the disorder they have and how they can adapt to their new lives without developing new problems such as depression or negative schemas about themselves.\n\nAccording to RAND, therapies are difficult to provide to all patients in need. A lack of funding and understanding of symptoms provides a major roadblock that is not easily avoided. Individual symptoms and responses to treatments vary, creating a disconnect between patient, society and care givers/professionals.\n\n\n\nUnderstanding behavior makes it more normal\n\nWhy Young Patients with Cancer Require Different Coping Tools?\n\nEEG Correlation during Social Decision-making in Institutionalized Adolescents\n"}
{"id": "23861360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23861360", "title": "African Journal of Traditional, Complementary and Alternative Medicines", "text": "African Journal of Traditional, Complementary and Alternative Medicines\n\nThe African Journal of Traditional, Complementary and Alternative Medicines is a peer-reviewed open access medical journal covering research on medicinal plants, traditional medicine, complementary alternative medicine, and food and agricultural technologies. It is included on Jeffrey Beall's list of \"Potential, possible, or probable predatory scholarly open-access journals\".\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 0.506.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59141525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59141525", "title": "Archibald Inglis", "text": "Archibald Inglis\n\nDr Archibald Inglis PRCSE (1801–1889) was a 19th-century Scottish surgeon who served as President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh for the period 1853 to 1855. He was a keen amateur botanist and chaired the Edinburgh Botanical Society.\n\nHe was born on 1 December 1801 at Post House Stair on Parliament Close off the Royal Mile in Edinburgh the son of Dr Andrew Inglis (d.1834) and grandson of Dr William Inglis. His house was remodelled and readdressed as 16 Parliament Square following the rebuilding of the law courts in Edinburgh.\n\nHis father served as President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh from 1808 to 1810. His grandfather had served twice in this same role: 1782-1784 and 1790-1792.\n\nArchibald studied Medicine at Edinburgh University from around 1817 to 1821, gaining his doctorate (MD) in 1824.\n\nHis family home was destroyed in the Great Fire of Edinburgh in 1824. His family then relocated to a then-new townhouse at 11 Albany Street in Edinburgh's New Town. Archibald inherited the house on his father's death in 1834 and lived there for most of his life.\n\nHe was a member of the Medico-Chirurgical Society of Edinburgh from 1827 In 1853 he succeeded James Scarth Combe as President of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. He was succeeded in turn in 1855 by Dr Andrew Wood.\n\nHe lived his later years at 33 Albany Street and died there in 1889. He is buried in Dean Cemetery.\n\nHe married Isabella Weir (1813-1877), daughter of Major James Weir and brother of Dr Thomas Graham Weir. They had at least eight children. Their son James Weir Inglis (1839-1901) died in Florida. The youngest son, Archibald, emigrated to Canada and lived until 1937.\n"}
{"id": "52156738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52156738", "title": "Biocolloid", "text": "Biocolloid\n\nA biocolloid is a colloid or colloidal mixture of plant or animal origin.\n"}
{"id": "3878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3878", "title": "Biostatistics", "text": "Biostatistics\n\nBiostatistics are the application of statistics to a wide range of topics in biology. It encompasses the design of biological experiments, especially in medicine, pharmacy, agriculture and fishery; the collection, summarization, and analysis of data from those experiments; and the interpretation of, and inference from, the results. A major branch is medical biostatistics, which is exclusively concerned with medicine and health.\n\nBiostatistical modeling forms an important part of numerous modern biological theories. Genetics studies, since its beginning, used statistical concepts to understand observed experimental results. Some genetics scientists even contributed with statistical advances with the development of methods and tools. Gregor Mendel started the genetics studies investigating genetics segregation patterns in families of peas and used statistics to explain the collected data. In the early 1900s, after the rediscovery of Mendel's Mendelian inheritance work, there were gaps in understanding between genetics and evolutionary Darwinism. Francis Galton tried to expand Mendel’s discoveries with human data and proposed a different model with fractions of the heredity coming from each ancestral composing a infinite series. He called this the theory of \"Law of Ancestral Heredity\". His ideas were strong disagreed by William Bateson, who followed Mendel's conclusions, that genetic inheritance were exclusively from the parents, half from each of them. This led to a vigorous debate between the biometricians, who supported Galton's ideas, as Walter Weldon, Arthur Dukinfield Darbishire and Karl Pearson, and Mendelians, who supported Bateson's (and Mendel's) ideas, such as Charles Davenport and Wilhelm Johannsen. Later, biometricians could not reproduce Galton conclusions in different experiments, and Mendel’s ideas prevailed. By the 1930s, models built on statistical reasoning had helped to resolve these differences and to produce the neo-Darwinian modern evolutionary synthesis.\n\nSolving these differences also allowed to define the concept of population genetics and brought together genetics and evolution. The three leading figures in the establishment of population genetics and this synthesis all relied on statistics and developed its use in biology.\n\n\nThese and other biostatisticians, mathematical biologists, and statistically inclined geneticists helped bring together evolutionary biology and genetics into a consistent, coherent whole that could begin to be quantitatively modeled.\n\nIn parallel to this overall development, the pioneering work of D'Arcy Thompson in \"On Growth and Form\" also helped to add quantitative discipline to biological study.\n\nDespite the fundamental importance and frequent necessity of statistical reasoning, there may nonetheless have been a tendency among biologists to distrust or deprecate results which are not qualitatively apparent. One anecdote describes Thomas Hunt Morgan banning the Friden calculator from his department at Caltech, saying \"Well, I am like a guy who is prospecting for gold along the banks of the Sacramento River in 1849. With a little intelligence, I can reach down and pick up big nuggets of gold. And as long as I can do that, I'm not going to let any people in my department waste scarce resources in placer mining.\"\n\nStatistical concepts also are present in clinical trials and epidemiological studies. These fields have their own history of biostatistics developments. In the 18th century, statistical methods were used to decide whether the application of certain treatments were effective, such as the insertion of smallpox pustules under an individual’s skin in the hope of creating a mild case of the disease that would induce later immunity. Since this actually put patients at risk of contracting a potentially fatal form of the disease, this treatment became the subject of much controversy. John Arbuthnot in 1722 studied the chances of people dying by naturally-occurring smallpox as compared to inoculation-induced smallpox. On the basis of the statistical studies, it was concluded that inoculation was preferred. Later, Daniel Bernoulli and Jean d’Alembert developed more robust statistical methods for the same problem, both based on the proportion of people who died.\nJames Lind were the first to propose groups of test of hypotheses. He applied this method to solve an outbreak of scurvy. For this, he is considered the “father” of clinical trial. In 1835, Pierre-Charles-Alexandre Louis proposed the “numerical method” to argue\nthat the practice of bloodletting was actually doing more harm than good for the patients. In 1840, Louis Denis Jules Gavarret publish the Principes Généraux de Statistique Médicale in which he pointed out that Louis’s averages could vary between what he called “limits of oscillation” (or confidence interval) if multiple samples were taken from the same population. Karl Pearson also expanded his methods to medicine, despite his main goal was to explicit the statistical implications of Darwin’s theory of natural selection.\n\nAny research in life sciences is proposed to answer a scientific question we might have. To answer this question with a high certainty, we need accurate results. The correct definition of the main hypothesis and the research plan will reduce errors while taking a decision in understanding a phenomenon. The research plan might include the research question, the hypothesis to be tested, the experimental design, data collection methods, data analysis perspectives and costs evolved. It is essential to carry the study based on the three basic principles of experimental statistics: randomization, replication, and local control.\n\nThe research question will define the objective of a study. The research will be headed by the question, so it needs to be concise, at the same time it is focused on interesting and novel topics that may improve science and knowledge and that field. To define the way to ask the scientific question, an exhaustive literature review might be necessary. So, the research can be useful to add value to the scientific community.\n\nOnce the aim of the study is defined, the possible answers to the research question can be proposed, transforming this question into a hypothesis. The main propose is called null hypothesis (H) and is usually based on a permanent knowledge about the topic or an obvious occurrence of the phenomena, sustained by a deep literature review. We can say it is the standard expected answer for the data under the situation in test. In general, H assumes no association between . On the other hand, the alternative hypothesis is the denial of H. It assumes some degree of association between the treatment and the outcome. Although, the hypothesis is sustained by question research and its expected and unexpected answers.\n\nAs an example, consider groups of similar animals (mice, for example) under two different diet systems. The research question would be: what is the best diet? In this case, H would be that there is no difference between the two diets in mice metabolism (H: μ = μ) and the alternative hypothesis would be that the diets have different effects over animals metabolism (H: μ ≠ μ).\n\nThe hypothesis is defined by the researcher, according to his/her interests in answering the main question. Besides that, the alternative hypothesis can be more than one hypothesis. It can assume not only differences across observed parameters, but their degree of differences (\"i.e.\" higher or shorter).\n\nUsually, a study aims to understand an effect of a phenomenon over a population. In biology, a population is defined as all the individuals of a given species, in a specific area at a given time. In biostatistics, this concept is extended to a variety of collections possible of study. Although, in biostatistics, a population is not only the individuals, but the total of one specific component of their organisms, as the whole genome, or all the sperm cells, for animals, or the total leaf area, for a plant, for example.\n\nIt is not possible to take the measures from all the elements of a population. Because of that, the sampling process is very important for statistical inference. Sampling is defined as to randomly get a representative part of the entire population, to make posterior inferences about the population. So, the sample might catch the most variability across a population. The sample size is determined by several things, since the scope of the research to the resources available. In clinical research, the trial type, as inferiority, equivalence, and superiority is a key in determining sample size.\n\nExperimental designs sustain those basic principles of experimental statistics. There are three basic experimental designs to randomly allocate treatments in all plots of the experiment. They are completely randomized design, randomized block design, and factorial designs. Treatments can be arranged in many ways inside the experiment. In agriculture, the correct experimental design is the root of a good study and the arrangement of treatments within the study is essential because environment largely affects the plots (plants, livestock, microorganisms). These main arrangements can be found in the literature under the names of “lattices”, “incomplete blocks”, “split plot”, “augmented blocks”, and many others. All of the designs might include control plots, determined by the researcher, to provide an error estimation during inference.\n\nIn clinical studies, the samples are usually smaller than in other biological studies, and in most cases, the environment effect can be controlled or measured. It is common to use randomized controlled clinical trials, where results are usually compared with observational study designs such as case–control or cohort.\n\nData collection methods must be considered in research planning, because it highly influences the sample size and experimental design.\n\nData collection varies according to type of data. For qualitative data, collection can be done with structured questionnaires or by observation, considering presence or intensity of disease, using score criterion to categorize levels of occurrence. For quantitative data, collection is done by measuring numerical information using instruments.\n\nIn agriculture and biology studies, yield data and its components can be obtained by metric measures. However, pest and disease injuries in plats are obtained by observation, considering score scales for levels of damage. Especially, in genetic studies, modern methods for data collection in field and laboratory should be considered, as high-throughput platforms for phenotyping and genotyping. These tools allow bigger experiments, while turn possible evaluate many plots in lower time than a human-based only method for data collection.\nFinally, all data collected of interest must be stored in an organized data frame for further analysis.\n\nData can be represented through tables or graphical representation, such as line charts, bar charts, histograms, scatter plot. Also, measures of central tendency and variability can be very useful to describe an overview of the data. Follow some examples:\n\n\nOne type of tables are the frequency table, which consists of data arranged in rows and columns, where the frequency is the number of occurrences or repetitions of data. Frequency can be:\n\nAbsolute: represents the number of times that a determined value appear;\n\nformula_1\n\nRelative: obtained by the division of the absolute frequency by the total number;\n\nformula_2\n\nIn the next example, we have the number of genes in ten operons of the same organism.\n\nformula_3\n\nLine graphs represent the variation of a value over another metric, such as time. In general, values are represented in the vertical axis, while the time variation is represented in the horizontal axis.\n\n\nA bar chart is a graph that shows categorical data as bars presenting heights (vertical bar) or widths (horizontal bar) proportional to represent values. Bar charts provide an image that could also be represented in a tabular format.\n\nIn the bar chart example, we have the birth rate in Brazil for the December months from 2010 to 2016. The sharp fall in December 2016 reflects the outbreak of Zika virus in the birth rate in Brazil.\n\n\nThe histogram (or frequency distribution) is a graphical representation of a dataset tabulated and divided into uniform or non-uniform classes. It was first introduced by Karl Pearson.\n\n\nA scatter plot is a mathematical diagram that uses Cartesian coordinates to display values of a dataset. A scatter plot shows the data as a set of points, each one presenting the value of one variable determining the position on the horizontal axis and another variable on the vertical axis. They are also called also called scatter graph, scatter chart, scattergram, or scatter diagram.\n\nThe arithmetic mean is the sum of a collection of values (formula_4) divided by the number of items of this collection (formula_5).\n\nformula_6\n\nThe median is the value in the middle of a dataset.\n\nThe mode is the value of a set of data that appears most often.\nBox plot is a method for graphically depicting groups of numerical data. The maximum and minimum values are represented by the lines, and the interquartile range (IQR) represent 25–75% of the data. Outliers may be plotted as circles.\n\n\nAlthough correlations between two different kinds of data could be inferred by graphs, such as scatter plot, is necessary validate this though numerical information. For this reason, correlation coefficients are required. They provide a numerical value that reflects the strength of an association.\n\n\nPearson correlation coefficient is a measure of association between two variables, X and Y. This coefficient, usually represented by \"ρ\" (rho) for the population and \"r\" for the sample, assumes values between −1 and 1, where \"ρ\" = 1 represents a perfect positive correlation, \"ρ\" = -1 represents a perfect negative correlation, and \"ρ\" = 0 is no linear correlation.\n\nIt is used to make inferences about an unknown population, by estimation and/or hypothesis testing. In other words, it is desirable to obtain parameters to describe the population of interest, but since the data is limited, it is necessary to make use of a representative sample in order to estimate them. With that, it is possible to test previously defined hypotheses and apply the conclusions to the entire population. The standard error of the mean is a measure of variability that is crucial to do inferences.\n\n\nHypothesis testing is essential to make inferences about populations aiming to answer research questions, as settled in \"Research planning\" section. Authors defined four steps to be set:\n\n\n\nA confidence interval is a range of values that can contain the true real parameter value in given a certain level of confidence. The first step is to estimate the best-unbiased estimate of the population parameter. The upper value of the interval is obtained by the sum of this estimate with the multiplication between the standard error of the mean and the confidence level. The calculation of lower value is similar, but instead of a sum, a subtraction must be applied.\n\nWhen testing a hypothesis, there are two types of statistic errors possible: Type I error and Type II error. The type I error or false positive is the incorrect rejection of a true null hypothesis and the type II error or false negative is the failure to reject a false null hypothesis. The significance level denoted by α is the type I error rate and should be chosen before performing the test. The type II error rate is denoted by β and statistical power of the test is 1 − β.\n\nThe p-value is the probability of obtaining results as extreme as or more extreme than those observed, assuming the null hypothesis (H) is true. It is also called the calculated probability. It is common to confuse the p-value with the significance level (α), but, the α is a predefined threshold for calling significant results. If p is less than α, the null hypothesis (H) is rejected.\n\nIn multiple tests of the same hypothesis, the probability of the occurrence of falses positives (familywise error rate) increase and some strategy are used to control this occurrence. This is commonly achieved by using a more stringent threshold to reject null hypotheses. The Bonferroni correction defines an acceptable global significance level, denoted by α* and each test is individually compared with a value of α = α*/m. This ensures that the familywise error rate in all m tests, is less than or equal to α*. When m is large, the Bonferroni correction may be overly conservative. An alternative to the Bonferroni correction is to control the false discovery rate (FDR). The FDR controls the expected proportion of the rejected null hypotheses (the so-called discoveries) that are false (incorrect rejections). This procedure ensures that, for independent tests, the false discovery rate is at most q*. Thus, the FDR is less conservative than the Bonferroni correction and have more power, at the cost of more false positives.\n\nThe main hypothesis being tested (e.g., no association between treatments and outcomes) is often accompanied by other technical assumptions (e.g., about the form of the probability distribution of the outcomes) that are also part of the null hypothesis. When the technical assumptions are violated in practice, then the null may be frequently rejected even if the main hypothesis is true. Such rejections are said to be due to model mis-specification. Verifying whether the outcome of a statistical test does not change when the technical assumptions are slightly altered (so-called robustness checks) is the main way of combating mis-specification.\n\nModel criteria selection will select or model that more approximate true model. The Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) and The Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC) are examples of asymptotically efficient criteria.\n\nRecent developments have made a large impact on biostatistics. Two important changes have been the ability to collect data on a high-throughput scale, and the ability to perform much more complex analysis using computational techniques. This comes from the development in areas as sequencing technologies, Bioinformatics and Machine learning (Machine learning in bioinformatics).\n\nNew biomedical technologies like microarrays, next-generation sequencers (for genomics) and mass spectrometry (for proteomics) generate enormous amounts of data, allowing many tests to be performed simultaneously. Careful analysis with biostatistical methods is required to separate the signal from the noise. For example, a microarray could be used to measure many thousands of genes simultaneously, determining which of them have different expression in diseased cells compared to normal cells. However, only a fraction of genes will be differentially expressed.\n\nMulticollinearity often occurs in high-throughput biostatistical settings. Due to high intercorrelation between the predictors (such as gene expression levels), the information of one predictor might be contained in another one. It could be that only 5% of the predictors are responsible for 90% of the variability of the response. In such a case, one could apply the biostatistical technique of dimension reduction (for example via principal component analysis). Classical statistical techniques like linear or logistic regression and linear discriminant analysis do not work well for high dimensional data (i.e. when the number of observations n is smaller than the number of features or predictors p: n < p). As a matter of fact, one can get quite high R-values despite very low predictive power of the statistical model. These classical statistical techniques (esp. least squares linear regression) were developed for low dimensional data (i.e. where the number of observations n is much larger than the number of predictors p: n » p). In cases of high dimensionality, one should always consider an independent validation test set and the corresponding residual sum of squares (RSS) and R of the validation test set, not those of the training set.\n\nOften, it is useful to pool information from multiple predictors together. For example, Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) considers the perturbation of whole (functionally related) gene sets rather than of single genes. These gene sets might be known biochemical pathways or otherwise functionally related genes. The advantage of this approach is that it is more robust: It is more likely that a single gene is found to be falsely perturbed than it is that a whole pathway is falsely perturbed. Furthermore, one can integrate the accumulated knowledge about biochemical pathways (like the JAK-STAT signaling pathway) using this approach.\n\nThe development of biological databases enables storage and management of biological data with the possibility of ensuring access for users around the world. They are useful for researchers depositing data, retrieve information and files (raw or processed) originated from other experiments or indexing scientific articles, as PubMed. Another possibility is search for the desired term (a gene, a protein, a disease, an organism, and so on) and check all results related to this search. There are databases dedicated to SNPs (dbSNP), the knowledge on genes characterization and their pathways (KEGG) and the description of gene function classifying it by cellular component, molecular function and biological process (Gene Ontology). In addition to databases that contain specific molecular information, there are others that are ample in the sense that they store information about an organism or group of organisms. As an example of a database directed towards just one organism, but that contains lots of data about it, is the \"Arabidopsis thaliana\" genetic and molecular database – TAIR. Phytozome, in turn, stores the assemblies and annotation files of dozen of plant genomes, also containing visualization and analysis tools. Moreover, there is an interconnection between some databases in the information exchange/sharing and a major initiative was the International Nucleotide Sequence Database Collaboration (INSDC) which relates data from DDBJ, EMBL-EBI, and NCBI.\n\nNowadays, increase in size and complexity of molecular datasets leads to use of powerful statistical methods provided by computer science algorithms which are developed by machine learning area. Therefore, data mining and machine learning allow detection of patterns in data with a complex structure, as biological ones, by using methods of supervised and unsupervised learning, regression, detection of clusters and association rule mining, among others. To indicate some of them, self-organizing maps and \"k\"-means are examples of cluster algorithms; neural networks implementation and support vector machines models are examples of common machine learning algorithms.\n\nCollaborative work among molecular biologists, bioinformaticians, statisticians and computer scientist is important to perform an experiment correctly, going from planning, passing through data generation and analysis, and ending with biological interpretation of the results.\n\nOn the other hand, the advent of modern computer technology and relatively cheap computing resources have enabled computer-intensive biostatistical methods like bootstrapping and re-sampling methods.\n\nIn recent times, random forests have gained popularity as a method for performing statistical classification. Random forest techniques generate a panel of decision trees. Decision trees have the advantage that you can draw them and interpret them (even with a basic understanding of mathematics and statistics). Random Forests have thus been used for clinical decision support systems.\n\nPublic health, including epidemiology, health services research, nutrition, environmental health and health care policy & management. In these medicine contents, it's important to consider the design and analysis of the clinical trials. As one example, there is the assessment of severity state of a patient with a prognosis of an outcome of a disease.\n\nWith new technologies and genetics knowledge, biostatistics are now also used for Systems medicine, which consists in a more personalized medicine. For this, is made a integration of data from different sources, including conventional patient data, clinico-pathological parameters, molecular and genetic data as well as data generated by additional new-omics technologies.\n\nThe study of Population genetics and Statistical genetics in order to link variation in genotype with a variation in phenotype. In other words, it is desirable to discover the genetic basis of a measurable trait, a quantitative trait, that is under polygenic control. A genome region that is responsible for a continuous trait is called Quantitative trait locus (QTL). The study of QTLs become feasible by using molecular markers and measuring traits in populations, but their mapping needs the obtaining of a population from an experimental crossing, like an F2 or Recombinant inbred strains/lines (RILs). To scan for QTLs regions in a genome, a gene map based on linkage have to be built. Some of the best-known QTL mapping algorithms are Interval Mapping, Composite Interval Mapping, and Multiple Interval Mapping.\n\nHowever, QTL mapping resolution is impaired by the amount of recombination assayed, a problem for species in which it is difficult to obtain large offspring. Furthermore, allele diversity is restricted to individuals originated from contrasting parents, which limit studies of allele diversity when we have a panel of individuals representing a natural population. For this reason, the Genome-wide association study was proposed in order to identify QTLs based on linkage disequilibrium, that is the non-random association between traits and molecular markers. It was leveraged by the development of high-throughput SNP genotyping.\n\nIn animal and plant breeding, the use of markers in selection aiming for breeding, mainly the molecular ones, collaborated to the development of marker-assisted selection. While QTL mapping is limited due resolution, GWAS does not have enough power when rare variants of small effect that are also influenced by environment. So, the concept of Genomic Selection (GS) arises in order to use all molecular markers in the selection and allow the prediction of the performance of candidates in this selection. The proposal is to genotype and phenotype a training population, develop a model that can obtain the genomic estimated breeding values (GEBVs) of individuals belonging to a genotyped and but not phenotyped population, called testing population. This kind of study could also include a validation population, thinking in the concept of cross-validation, in which the real phenotype results measured in this population are compared with the phenotype results based on the prediction, what used to check the accuracy of the model.\n\nAs a summary, some points about the application of quantitative genetics are:\n\nStudies for differential expression of genes from RNA-Seq data, as for RT-qPCR and microarrays, demands comparison of conditions. The goal is to identify genes which have a significant change in abundance between different conditions. Then, experiments are designed appropriately, with replicates for each condition/treatment, randomization and blocking, when necessary. In RNA-Seq, the quantification of expression uses the information of mapped reads that are summarized in some genetic unit, as exons that are part of a gene sequence. As microarray results can be approximated by a normal distribution, RNA-Seq counts data are better explained by other distributions. The first used distribution was the Poisson one, but it underestimate the sample error, leading to false positives. Currently, biological variation is considered by methods that estimate a dispersion parameter of a negative binomial distribution. Generalized linear models are used to perform the tests for statistical significance and as the number of genes is high, multiple tests correction have to be considered. Some examples of other analysis on genomics data comes from microarray or proteomics experiments. Often concerning diseases or disease stages.\n\n\nThere are a lot of tools that can be used to do statistical analysis in biological data. Most of them are useful in other areas of knowledge, covering a large number of applications. Here are brief descriptions of some of them:\n\n\nAlmost all educational programmes in biostatistics are at postgraduate level. They are most often found in schools of public health, affiliated with schools of medicine, forestry, or agriculture, or as a focus of application in departments of statistics.\n\nIn the United States, where several universities have dedicated biostatistics departments, many other top-tier universities integrate biostatistics faculty into statistics or other departments, such as epidemiology. Thus, departments carrying the name \"biostatistics\" may exist under quite different structures. For instance, relatively new biostatistics departments have been founded with a focus on bioinformatics and computational biology, whereas older departments, typically affiliated with schools of public health, will have more traditional lines of research involving epidemiological studies and clinical trials as well as bioinformatics. In larger universities around the world, where both a statistics and a biostatistics department exist, the degree of integration between the two departments may range from the bare minimum to very close collaboration. In general, the difference between a statistics program and a biostatistics program is twofold: (i) statistics departments will often host theoretical/methodological research which are less common in biostatistics programs and (ii) statistics departments have lines of research that may include biomedical applications but also other areas such as industry (quality control), business and economics and biological areas other than medicine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55933047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55933047", "title": "Birk-Barel syndrome", "text": "Birk-Barel syndrome\n\nBirk-Barel syndrome is a rare genetic disorder associated with the KCNK9 gene. Signs and symptoms include mental retardation, hypotonia, hyperactivity, and syndromic facies.\n\nDue to imprinting, mutations in the maternal copy of KCNK9 cause the condition, while mutations in the paternal copy do not. As such, this condition can only be inherited from the mother.\n"}
{"id": "44798861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44798861", "title": "Capital punishment in Jordan", "text": "Capital punishment in Jordan\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Jordan. The country had a moratorium on capital punishment between 2006 and 2014. 11 executions were performed in 2015, and 15 executions were performed in 2017.\n\nThe method of execution is hanging, previously shooting was the sole method.\n\nBetween 2000 and the imposition of a moratorium in 2006 there had been 41 executions, either for murder, terrorism or sexual offences.\n\nIn 2005 King Abdullah II of Jordan stated that: \"in coordination with the European Union, we would like to modify our Penal Code. Jordan could soon become the first country in the Middle East without capital punishment.\"\n\nIn 2006 the Jordanian cabinet launched a plan to limit the number of capital offences from sixteen to ten.\n\nIn 2008 and 2010 Jordan abstained to vote on the United Nations moratorium on the death penalty.\n\nIn November 2014 the Jordanian cabinet formed a committee to explore whether Jordan should reinstate the application of capital punishment.\n\nOn 21 December 2014 eleven persons were hanged, all men which were convicted of murder in 2005 and 2006. These were the first executions since June 2006, 122 sentences of capital punishment had been handed out since. Shortly before the executions Interior Minister Hussein Al-Majali had stated that capital punishment might be reinstated due to a major debate on the subject, and with the public believing that a recent rise in crime was caused by non-application of the death penalty. The lifting of the moratorium was criticized by human rights organisations.\n\nOn 4 February 2015, shortly after discovering Jordanian pilot Muath al-Kasasbeh had been killed by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, Jordan executed Sajida Mubarak Atrous al-Rishawi and Ziad Khalaf Raja al-Karbouly. Both had been convicted of terrorist offences. In February 2016 local media reported that a government committee had recommended the execution of 13 offenders, out of 80 investigated cases.\n\n15 executions were carried on dawn of 4 March 2017; 10 convicted with terrorism and the remaining 5 with \"heinous\" murder and rape of minors. Those convicted with terrorism were part of a bomb attack against the Jordanian embassy in Baghdad in 2003 that left dozens killed, an attack in Amman in 2006 in which a tourist was killed, a foiled terror plot in Irbid in 2016 that planned to bomb several civilian targets, an attack on intelligence officers in 2016 that left 5 dead and the assassination of Jordanian writer Nahed Hattar in 2016.\n\nCapital punishment is possible amongst others for murder, rape, terrorism, aggravated robbery, drug trafficking, illegal possession and use of weapons, war crimes, treason and espionage.\n\nIn recent years most verdicts of capital punishment have been handed out by the State Security Court. Cases in which capital punishment is sentenced receive an automatic appeal.\n\nArticle 93 of the Constitution of Jordan holds that \"no death sentence may be carried out unless ratified by the King. Every such sentence shall be submitted to him by the Council of Ministers along with the council’s view on it.\"\n\nSeveral categories of persons are excluded from being subjected to capital punishment. These are those under the age of 18, pregnant women, the mentally ill and mentally retarded.\n"}
{"id": "22024272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22024272", "title": "Caving in Tunisia", "text": "Caving in Tunisia\n\nCaving in Tunisia is a relatively rare sport in the country. Caving emerged in the late 1970s and includes a limited number of practitioners. Tunisia has a number of sites suitable for the sport. \n\nThe caving club of Bizerte began in 1979, in the youth house in the city, and particularly aroused the interest of the club Youth Science Bizerta. In 1981, a second club was opened in Zaghouan, while Tunisian speleologists began to participate in national and international speleological meetings. \n\nThe two massive caves Jebel Serj and Jebel Bargou are important places for caving. They culminate respectively and (m) m and are oriented southwest and northeast. The first of these is composed of two parallel ridges separated by deep notch. All of the backbone is formed by massive Aptian land whose limestone's reef summit are almost all of outcrops. The sides of the djebel are very pronounced, forming a safe fold structure.\nThe site is interesting, both from the ecological point of view and that of archeology. There are sources emerging in wild vegetation and Roman ruins such as the bridge Sidi Amara. \n\nThere are many caves, the most important step is the cave of El Kef Biadh whose access is via a series of wells or galleries, most of which come from mining. The first large room of m long and 267 metres deep shelters concretions and huge boulders; its walls are covered with bushes of Eccentric. The hall ends with a diaclases which opens a well. It measures about 150 metres long and 50 metres wide. The vault is located some thirty metres above the ground. \n\nIt then goes to the second room that looks much like the previous one with the presence of concretions and basins . This last room is closed on a crack up to two metres above the ground. There is a significant colony of bat. The second room is over 200 meters long and 75 metres wide and has a vault located about forty metres above the ground in places.\n\n \n\nThe cave Nefza is an extension of the mine Ghanguet Kef at Jebel El Damous which peaked at about 202 metres. The latter is formed by land dating from the Cretaceous, the Eocene, and the Oligocene. At these sites are deposits of zinc and lead. \n\nThe cavity, with a total length of 310 metres and a height of 60 metres, contains a tectonic accident: its cross section shows a general shape of a triangle with a straight wall western wall and a shaped Eastern staircase reversed. A gallery of thirty metres, covered in concentric circles and ovals, about eight metres above the ground, leads to a first room that leads to two lanes of forty metres in length, at different levels, leading to a large room in which there are two columns of stalagmites. A narrow conduit leads to a third room containing concretions and eccentrics. At this level, progress is blocked by a narrow conduit. \n\nThe region of Joumine has land dating to the Triassic and Cretaceous. The caves in this area are located more precisely in the region Errouaha.\n\nAccess to the cave of El Blida is difficult: it is entered through a narrow conduit that leads to a very small room leading into the main room; the passage between these two rooms is made through a slope of approximately 20°. \n\nAccess to the cave of Bou Touil is relatively easy: the entrance is from a fairly broad which leads to narrow corridors on the left side. It leads to a large room with good stalactites and stalagmites and columns. A large, steep (about 45 ° to 50 °) corridor in the back is ended by a narrow passage that stops the progression. This cave has been subject to a thorough study, including petrography and mineralogy analysis performed on many samples. \n\nThe Ichkeul cave is located in the Jebel Ichkeul, located about twenty kilometres from the city of Bizerte in the National Park Ichkeul covering an area of hectares including a lake of hectares. Limestone, Dolomitic, and marble rocks date from Triassic and Jurassic and are located above a collapsed ditch.\n\nThe cave itself has a narrow entrance allowing access to a vast room with large cracks along the length of the walls and showing several cavities. The room is followed by a narrow corridor formed by the wall and giant calcitic concretions, which ends with a stack of 32 metres. On the sides of the second room there are draperies, small stalactites and young stalagmites. The cave is well lit and ventilated, and it has a diverse wildlife, including bats, birds and reptiles. \n"}
{"id": "14162612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14162612", "title": "Chloramination", "text": "Chloramination\n\nChloramination is the treatment of drinking water with a chloramine disinfectant. Both chlorine and small amounts of ammonia are added to the water one at a time which react together to form chloramine (also called combined chlorine), a long lasting disinfectant. Chloramine disinfection is used in both small and large water treatment plants.\n\nIn the United States, the maintenance of what is called a \"residual\" of disinfectant that stays in the water distribution system while it is delivered to people's homes is required by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).\n\nThe EPA regulations give two choices for disinfectant residual — chlorine or chloramine. Many major water agencies are changing to chloramine to better meet current and anticipated federal drinking water regulations and to protect the public health.\n\nThere are many similarities between chlorine and chloramine. Both provide effective residual disinfection with minimal risk to public health. Both are toxic to fish and amphibians. Both chlorine and chloramine react with other compounds in the water to form what are called \"disinfection byproducts\".\n\nThe difference is that chlorine forms many byproducts, including trihalomethanes (THM) and haloacetic acids (HAA), whereas chloramine forms a significantly lower amount of THMs and HAAs but also forms \"N\"-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA). One of the principal benefits of chloramine is that its use reduces the overall levels of these regulated contaminants compared to chlorine.\n\nChloramine is toxic to fish and amphibians. Chloramine, like chlorine, comes in direct contact with their bloodstream through fish gills and must be removed from water added to aquariums and fish ponds. It must also be removed from water prior to use in dialysis machines, since water comes into direct contact with the bloodstream during treatment. Since the 1980s, most dialysis machines are built with filters to remove chloramines.\n\nChloramine is generally considered a problem in brewing beer; like chlorine it can react with and change some of the natural plant flavors that make up the beer, and it may slow or alter the yeast. Because chloramine dissipates much more slowly than chlorine from water, beer-makers prefer carbon filtration and / or Campden tablets to neutralize it in the water.\n\nPeople have no trouble digesting chlorine or chloramine at the levels found in public drinking water; this water is not introduced directly into the human bloodstream. In the United States, the United States Environmental Protection Agency set minimum and maximum health-based safe levels for chloramine in drinking water. Elsewhere, similar oversight agencies may set drinking water quality standards for chloramine.\n\nTwo home builders filed lawsuits against Moulton Niguel Water District in 2012, (in Orange County CA), arguing that pinhole leaks in copper water piping in their homes was due to faulty water treatment with chloramine. Pinhole leaks cause expensive damage to people's homes, and the builders claim that they must repipe houses at great expense to deal with the problem. Officials observed that only the two builders have filed suit, but as of late 2013 the number of lawsuits had expanded.\n\nMuch of the recent discussion about chloramine has focused on N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), and it is critical to distinguish between chloramine and NDMA. NDMA can be a byproduct of chloramination or chlorination, but drinking water is not a major source of exposure to NDMA. The biggest sources of human exposure to NDMA are tobacco smoke, chewing tobacco, bacon and other cured meats, beer, fish, cheese, toiletries, shampoos, cleansers, interior air of cars, and household pesticides. In addition, NDMA can form in the stomach during digestion of foods or drugs that contain alkylamines, which are naturally occurring compounds.\n\nAt very high levels—100,000 times greater than even the highest levels seen in a recent survey of chlorinated and chloraminated drinking waters—NDMA may cause serious human health problems, such as liver disease. Such effects are seen at concentrations ranging from 5 to 50 parts per million in water; for comparison a study conducted by the California Department of Health Services in 1999 and 2000 found the highest level of NDMA in drinking water that had been treated with chloramine was 0.00006 parts per million. In that study, most of the concentrations of NDMA were far lower than that, and many water samples in the California Department of Health Services study, including those from the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission water system taken in 2000, did not have any detectable concentrations of NDMA.\n\n"}
{"id": "55810523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55810523", "title": "Chlorella vulgaris", "text": "Chlorella vulgaris\n\nChlorella vulgaris is a green microalgae mainly used as a medical treatment in Japan. It thought to have potential for biofuel production or as a food additive.\n\n\"C. vulgaris\" is a green eukaryotic microalgae in the genus \"Chlorella\", which has been present on earth since the Precambrian period. This unicellular algae was discovered in 1890 by Martinus Willem Beijerinck as the first microalgae with a well-defined nucleus. At the beginning of the 1990s, German scientists noticed the high protein content of \"C. vulgaris\" and began to consider it as a new food source. Japan is currently the largest consumer of Chlorella, mostly because of its medical properties.\n\nThe world annual production of the various species of \"Chlorella\" was 2000t (dry weight) in 2009, with the main producers being Germany, Japan and Taiwan. \"C. vulgaris\" constitutes an excellent candidate for production due to its high resistance against rough conditions and invading organisms. In addition, the production of the various organic macromolecules of interest (proteins, lipids, starch) differ depending on the technique used to create biomass and can be therefore targeted. Under more hostile conditions, the biomass decreases but lipids and starch contents increase. Under favourable conditions, protein content raises along with the biomass. Different growth techniques have been developed. They exploit the autotrophic, heterotrophic or mixotrophic properties of \"C. vulgaris\". Growing \"C. vulgaris\" autotrophically is illustrated by the closed photo-bioreactor. Harvesting the biomass is then generally done by centrifugation due to the high process efficiency (95% recovery). Other techniques exist as well, such as flocculation, filtration, flotation.\n\n\"C. vulgaris\" is seen as a promising source of bioenergy. It may be a good alternative to the current biofuel crops, like soybean, corn or rapeseed, as it is more productive and does not compete with food production. It can produce large amount of lipids, up to 20 times more than crop, which have a suitable profile for biodiesel production. This microalgae also contains high amount of starch, good enough for the production of bioethanol. However, microalgal biofuels are still far from being competitive with fossil fuels, regarding their high production costs and controversial sustainability.\n\nThe proteins content of \"C. Vulgaris\" varies from 42 to 58% of its biomass dry weight. These proteins are considered as having a good nutritional quality compared to the standard profile for human nutrition of the World Health Organisation and Food and Agricultural Organisation, as the algae synthesise essential and non-essential amino-acids. The algae also contains lipids (5-40% of the dry mass), carbohydrates (12-55% dry weight) and pigments with among others chlorophyll, reaching 1-2 % of the dry weight. \"C. vulgaris\" contains also some minerals and vitamins important for human nutrition. \"C. vulgaris\" is marketed as dietary supplement, additive, as colourant or food emulsion. They are all in the form of capsules, extracts, tablets or powder. They are consumed in Japan as a medical treatment. \"C. vulgaris\" has demonstrated some antitumor and immune-modulating characteristics. However, despite its high nutritious protein content and its potentially health benefits, \"C. vulgaris\" is not yet widely incorporated in food products. The main reason for this is its dark green colour and its smell, which is close to that of fish.\n"}
{"id": "19793189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19793189", "title": "Circumpolar Health Bibliographic Database", "text": "Circumpolar Health Bibliographic Database\n\nThe Circumpolar Health Bibliographic Database (CHBD) is a free electronic database of abstracts, citations, geographic and subject indexing, library codes and their links to full text publications, both peer-reviewed and gray literature. Established in 2007, it contains more than sixty five hundred records that describe human health in the circumpolar region. The CHBD is a circumpolar chronic disease prevention project of the Canadian Institutes of Health Research. It is maintained by the University of Calgary in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. \n\nThe CHBD was initially constructed with records from the Arctic Institute of North America's database. These were mainly northern Canadian records. It is expected to take several years to add non-Canadian records to the CHBD. The Circumpolar Health Observatory, proposed in May 2008 in Norway, would disseminate its data through the CHBD.\n\nFunding for the database increased by 50% for the period of 2008-2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27093223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27093223", "title": "Conservation Through Public Health", "text": "Conservation Through Public Health\n\nConservation Through Public Health (CTPH) is a non-profit organization based in Uganda and the USA that conducts programs to protect gorillas and other wildlife from human and livestock disease risk; to reduce human and livestock diseases in the vicinity of wildlife; to increase the local use of family planning; and to use information/communication technology both to help local-level development and to educate people about the environment. It was founded by Gladys Kalema-Zikusoka, Lawrence Zikusoka, and Stephen Rubanga in 2002. It has a special focus on the endangered mountain gorilla and has programs in Bwindi Impenetrable National Park and Queen Elizabeth National Park in Uganda, and cooperative work with parks and wildlife areas extending into Congo and Rwanda.\n\nConservation Through Public Health's stated mission is to achieve gorilla conservation by enabling humans, wildlife and livestock to coexist through improving primary healthcare in and around Africa’s protected areas.\n\nDr.Gladys Kalema-Zikusoka is the CTPH co-founder and CEO. Lawrence Zikusoka is a co-founder and Director of Information, Communication, and Technology. Stephen Rubanga is the third co-founder and Chief Veterinary Technician.\n\nCTPH's three main projects are 1. wildlife health monitoring, including monitoring mountain gorillas for infection by human diseases and possible treatment; 2. improving human health and family planning in the vicinity of gorilla habitat to protect gorillas from disease and to benefit local communities; and 3. information, education, and communication projects in the remote areas where CTPH attempts to benefit the local communities. The organization's work on these projects has been reported on PBS Frontline, at USAID, and presented at the Woodrow Wilson Center.\n\nCTPH has received a number of awards for its achievements, including as Finalist, Stockholm Challenge Award, 2006; and Winner, World Summit Award, Digital Inclusion in Bwindi Communities, 2007; and Skal Foundation Kampala Chapter 611 for promoting conservation activities in Uganda, 2007. The co-founder and CTPH CEO Gladys Kalema-Zikusoka has additionally been recognized with many awards for her achievements with CTPH.\n\n"}
{"id": "6140889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6140889", "title": "Cottage hospital", "text": "Cottage hospital\n\nA cottage hospital is a semi-obsolete type of small hospital in the United Kingdom.\nThe original concept was a small rural building having several beds. The advantages of such a hospital in villages were the provision of care which avoided long journeys to county or voluntary hospitals, facilities to deal more immediately with emergencies, and familiarity the local physician might have with their patients that may affect their treatment. This local knowledge of the patient would probably have been lost had they been referred to their nearest county hospital, as was typical for poorer patients.\n\nSome of these buildings continued to be known as cottage hospitals until recent times. In particular, several are still recognisable in Scotland within the infrastructure of NHS Grampian, Kirkcudbrightshire, Dumfries & Galloway, and in Norfolk and Suffolk in England, an example being the Aldeburgh Cottage Hospital, which is still working as a traditional cottage hospital. The term community hospital is now applied to most of these buildings where they are used to deliver healthcare, reflecting the wider range of services that are provided in more modern times.\n\nFollowing King Henry VIII's Dissolution of the Monasteries in 1536-40, only a few hospitals remained in use: St Thomas', St Bartholomew's, the Bethlehem Hospital for the insane and two lock hospitals for the treatment of syphilis. From the mid-16th century until the Voluntary Hospital Movement in the early part of the 18th century there was a dearth of hospital care in the UK.\n\nThe first voluntary hospital created to provide free care through the philanthropic action of doctors and surgeons for the ill poor was the French Hospital in Finsbury, London, started in 1718 by Huguenot immigrants. The movement developed with the opening of Westminster Hospital near St James's Park. This was followed by the commissioning of St George’s Hospital at Hyde Park Corner. Over the next 50 years, voluntary hospitals were built across the UK with a larger number in the south of England, although one of the largest voluntary hospitals opened in Edinburgh in 1729. Funding was problematic in the early years as the development of voluntary hospitals competed with government, county and local funding for the provision of care under the Poor Law Acts of 1722 and 1782. The County Hospitals received enormous public charity support. Alongside these care facilities were dispensaries.\n\nAccommodated in a single building, they provided what is now called out-patient and day-patient care. Medicines (termed ‘physics’) were prescribed, and minor surgical procedures as well as cupping and bleeding were carried out, the patient returning to their home after treatment.\n\nIn 1818 the village surgeon, Mr. Henry Lilley Smith opened a dispensary in Southam, Warwickshire. This comprised an 8 bed-roomed cottage with 4 beds. It was for the use of manual labourers and their families. Except in name this facility fulfills the broad definition of a cottage hospital. p20\n\nIn 1827 Sir Astley Cooper converted some cottages at Piccotts End, close to Hemel Hempstead, into the first cottage hospital providing free medical services.\n\n1842 saw the commissioning of a cottage hospital in Wellow, Nottinghamshire with 6 beds and managed by a board which included many eminent gentlemen. Mr. W Squire Ward was the surgeon on its inception and remained so for 25 years. One nurse was employed with occasional assistance and a wide range of surgical interventions were successfully carried out. p21\n\nBetween 1855 and 1898, 294 cottage hospitals were established.\n\nIn 1859 Albert Napper converted a small cottage into a hospital in the village of Cranleigh in Surrey. This hospital opened because Mr Napper was concerned that there were no local hospital facilities for the poor in the village. St Thomas’ Hospital was the nearest voluntary hospital and that was about 45 kilometres away on unmade roads, a dangerous journey for an ill person. The only other possibility for care was in a local workhouse infirmary but this was some 12 kilometres away in Guildford, had no trained nurses and carried the real (at that time) risk of the patient being stigmatized as a pauper. The third possibility was to stay at home; in those days and for poor people this condition is indicated by Horace Swete, a village surgeon in Wrington in Somerset, UK, in his book of 1870.\n\nThe moneyed class could afford much better conditions and treatment in private hospital without the risk of loss of employment, a slide in poverty or worse.\n\nAlbert Napper’s sympathy for the poorer classes were shared by the Reverend JH Sapter, Rector of Cranley and they fostered the idea of finding some accommodation for the care and nursing of the ill poor. Then an occurrence of a single incident is recorded by Swete as being the catalyst for the development of the cottage hospital. Rev. Sapter was riding across the common in Cranley when he heard of a serious accident. The victim had been carried to a nearby cottage and when Sapter arrived he found Albert Napper and two assistants amputating the leg of the injured man. This incident confirmed for both men the need for some local facility where sick or injured people could receive urgent care. The Rev. Sapter made a cottage available, rent-free, which after being whitewashed and simply furnished opened after a few weeks as the first cottage hospital.\n\nThat same cottage still exists today at the entrance to Cranleigh Village Hospital.\n\nMr Napper proceeded to admit local patients to the Village Hospital, as it was called, and kept records from the start. Among the first 100 patients he recorded “compound fracture of both bones in the leg”, “extensive cicatrix from a burn”, “chronic pneumonia in both lungs”, “multiple injuries” and amputation of fingers in a boy”.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1380826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1380826", "title": "DSM-IV codes", "text": "DSM-IV codes\n\nDSM-IV codes are the classification found in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition, Text Revision, also known as \"DSM-IV-TR\", a manual published by the American Psychiatric Association (APA) that includes all currently recognized mental health disorders. The DSM-IV codes are thus used by mental health professionals to describe the features of a given mental disorder and indicate how the disorder can be distinguished from other, similar problems.\n\nThe coding system utilized by the DSM-IV is designed to correspond with codes from the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Revision, Clinical Modification, commonly referred to as the ICD-9-CM. Since early versions of the DSM did not correlate with ICD codes and updates of the publications for the ICD and the DSM are not simultaneous, some distinctions in the coding systems may still be present. For this reason, it is recommended that users of these manuals consult the appropriate reference when accessing diagnostic codes\n\nNote that NOS is an abbreviation for \"Not Otherwise Specified\", indicating a cluster of symptoms that do not clearly fit in any single diagnostic category. NOS is often a provisional diagnosis pending additional information or testing.\n\nFor an alphabetical list, see DSM-IV codes (alphabetical).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTop\n\n\n\n\n\nTop\n\n\nTop\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTop\n\n\nTop\n\n\n\n\n\nTop\n\n\nTop\n\nTop\n\n\nTop\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTop\n\n\n\n\nTop\n\n\nTop\n\n\nTop\n\nCluster A (odd or eccentric)\nCluster B (dramatic, emotional, or erratic)\nCluster C (anxious or fearful)\nNOS\n\nTop\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27857197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27857197", "title": "Daniel Nuñez del Prado", "text": "Daniel Nuñez del Prado\n\nDr. Daniel Nuñez del Prado (29 July 1840 in La Paz, Bolivia – 1891) was a revolutionary Bolivian doctor of medicine. His parents were Dr Maria José Nuñez del Prado and Isabel del Valle. His brother, Eduardo Nuñez del Prado, was also a doctor of medicine.\n\nPresident Mariano Melgarejo expelled Nuñez del Prado from Bolivia. The reason was that Rosa Zeballos Tomayo, the wife of Nuñez del Prado denied General Melgarejo access to her house during a parade. It is one of the historical buildings in the city of La Paz. Years later, Don Daniel urgently was requested to attend a patient who had been shot dead in Lima. The patient was General Melgarejo. The last confession from former president Melgarejo was that he was with Don Daniel Nuñez del Prado.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "373579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373579", "title": "Department of Health and Social Care", "text": "Department of Health and Social Care\n\nThe Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) is a department of Her Majesty's Government, responsible for government policy on health and adult social care matters in England, along with a few elements of the same matters which are not otherwise devolved to the Scottish Government, Welsh Government or Northern Ireland Executive. It oversees the English National Health Service (NHS). The department is led by the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care with two Ministers of State and three Parliamentary Under-Secretaries of State.\n\nThe Department of Health develops policies and guidelines to improve the quality of care and to meet patient expectations.\n\nThe department carries out some of its work through arms-length bodies (ALBs), including executive non-departmental public bodies such as NHS England and the NHS Digital, and executive agencies such as Public Health England and the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).\n\nThe Department of Health was formally created in 1988, through The Transfer of Functions (Health and Social Security) Order. \nLike many others, the department with responsibility for the nation's health has had different names and included other functions over time.\n\nIn the 19th century, several bodies were formed for specific consultative duties and dissolved when they were no longer required. There were two incarnations of the Board of Health (in 1805 and 1831) and a General Board of Health (1854 to 1858) that reported directly into the Privy Council. Responsibility for health issues was also at times, and in part, vested in local health boards and, with the emergence of modern local government, with the Local Government Act Office, part of the Home Office. In the early part of the 20th century, medical assistance was provided through National Health Insurance Commissions.\n\nThe first body which could be called a department of government was the Ministry of Health, created through the Ministry of Health Act 1919, consolidating under a single authority the medical and public health functions of central government. The co-ordination of local medical services was expanded in connection with emergency and wartime services, from 1935 to 1945, and these developments culminated in the establishment of the NHS in 1948.\n\nIn 1968, the Ministry of Health was dissolved and its functions transferred (along with those of the similarly dissolved Ministry of Social Security) to the newly created Department of Health and Social Security (DHSS). Twenty years later, these functions were split back into two government departments, forming the Department of Social Security (DSS) and the Department of Health.\n\nAfter the 2018 British cabinet reshuffle, the department was renamed to the Department of Health and Social Care.\n\nThe department's headquarters and ministerial offices are at 39 Victoria Street, London. The department moved from its previous location in Richmond House, Whitehall in November 2017. Its other principal offices are Skipton House (Elephant and Castle), Wellington House near Waterloo station and Quarry House in Leeds. Wellington House is now mainly occupied by staff from the department's arms-length bodies. New King's Beam House near Blackfriars Bridge was formerly a Department of Health office prior to the expiry of its lease in October 2011. Alexander Fleming House and Hannibal House were previously used by the department. The archives are at Nelson, Lancashire.\n\nThe Department of Health ministers are as follows:\nThe Permanent Secretary at the Department of Health is Sir Christopher Wormald, who was appointed in 2016.\n\nPrevious permanent secretaries:\n\nFollowing the resignation of Sir Nigel Crisp in March 2006, a separate post of Chief Executive of the NHS in England was created, held by Sir David Nicholson. Following the Health and Social Care Act 2012 and the creation of the independent NHS Commissioning Board, known as NHS England, this post has evolved into Chief Executive of the new organisation. As of 1 April 2014, the incumbent is Simon Stevens.\n\nThe department has six chief professional officers who provide it with expert knowledge and also advise the Ministers, other government departments and the Prime Minister. The Chief Medical Officer and Chief Nursing Officer are also directors of the department's board.\n\n\nThe department acts as a 'steward' for the health and adult social care system in England and oversees fifteen arms-length bodies (ALBs):\n\nThe department has two executive agencies:\n\nThe department has thirteen Executive non-departmental public bodies:\n\nThe publication of Professor Lord Darzi's review of the NHS prompted criticism of the government and the department of health claiming that it paved the way for user charging, and so contradicting the NHS Plan 2000 which stated that \"user charges are unfair and inequitable in they increase the proportion of funding from the unhealthy, old and poor compared with the healthy, young and wealthy\". The report also introduces the concept of personal budgets.\n\nDarzi's report splits previously integrated services into 'core', 'additional' and 'enhanced' services, which critics say will lead to abandoning the open-ended duty of care on which the NHS was founded.\n\nFatal outbreaks of antibiotic-resistant bacteria (\"superbugs\"), such as Methicillin-resistant \"Staphylococcus aureus\" (MRSA) and \"Clostridium difficile\", in NHS hospitals has led to criticism of the DH's decision to outsource cleaning via private finance initiative contracts as \"cutting corners on cleaning\".\n\nA \"Deep Clean\" initiative announced by the Department of Health was criticised by infection control experts and by the Lancet as a gimmick which failed to address the causes of in-hospital infections, by the firms doing the work as an attempt to avoid paying for regular better cleaning, and by NHS managers as ineffective.\n\nIt also attracted criticism because only a quarter of the £60m funding for the scheme actually went to hospitals, and because a number of hospitals missed the completion target, and as of June 2008 one in four NHS trusts was not meeting the government's standards on hygiene.\n\nIts advice to primary care on prescribing drugs such as proton pump inhibitors has been criticised as wasteful.\n\nThe DH has attracted criticism for its disastrous handling of the outcome of Modernising Medical Careers, in particular in the changes it made to the specialist training of doctors and the Medical Training Application Service (MTAS). These changes left \"29,193 junior doctors from the UK and overseas... chasing 15,600 posts...\" and resulted in accusations that the DH had broken the law by refusing to reveal scores to candidates. Ultimately there was a judicial review and a boycott of the system by senior doctors across the country. MTAS was eventually scrapped and Patricia Hewitt, the then Secretary of State for Health, resigned following accusations that she had lied to the House of Commons over the system. Even after the abolition of MTAS, anger among the medical profession continued, with the British Medical Association commenting of the DH response that \"Not only is this response too late, it does not go far enough\".\n\nThe official government inquiry into MMC recommended that the responsibility for medical training be removed from the DH.\n\nSuccessive DH ministerial teams have been criticised for repeated reorganisations of the NHS in England, where primary care commissioning responsibility, in particular, has been allocated to four different sets of organisations in the last ten years: PCGs, small area PCTs (e.g. covering a rural local authority district or part of a city), larger-area PCTs (e.g. covering a whole County), PCT clusters (e.g. quarter of London or South of Tyne and Wear) and the currently unspecified Clinical Commissioning Groups. The tendency to introduce each reorganisation before its predecessor has had time to settle down and generate improved performance has attracted censure amongst healthcare professions in the UK and beyond, including reference to the ironic concept of 'redisorganization'. \n\nAndrew Lansley's promise before the 2010 general election not to impose top-down reorganisation, followed by the instigation from ministerial level of one of the most fundamental NHS reorganisations yet envisaged, has generated especially widespread opprobrium, although some commentators have also suggested that this is to some extent completing the job started under the Blair administration.\n\nThe NHS as of 1 April 2013 is no longer situated within the DH, as NHS England also went 'live' at the same time. Therefore, the DH has a further scrunity role of NHS services and commissioning. (See Arms Length Bodies section).\n\nIn recent years the Department of Health and the NHS have come under considerable scrutiny for its use of IT. Since being elected to power in 1997 the Labour government had sought to modernise the NHS through the introduction of IT. Although the policy is correct in aim, many claim its execution is lacking.\n\nIn September 2008 a new leadership team was established, CIO for Health, Christine Connelly, and director of programme and system delivery Martin Bellamy. Previous CIO Richard Granger was believed to have been the most highly paid civil servant in the UK and was a controversial figure. Connelly left the DH for a position in the Cabinet Office in June 2009 and was replaced by Tim Donohoe and Carol Clarke.\n\nConnelly's role is to \"deliver the Department's overall information strategy and integrating leadership across the NHS\", according to the DH's website. That strategy, known as the National Programme for IT, is intended to do nothing less than revolutionise NHS information workflow and is costed at about £12.7bn. The success or otherwise of Connelly's reign will be based on her promise to end delays of electronic medical records. She has said that if there is not clear progress by November 2009, a new plan could be hatched.\n\nOn the eve of the departure of Fujitsu as an outsourcing partner, Connelly said in April 2009 that she would open up sourcing to competition at \"acute\" sights in the south of England and offer toolkits by March 2010 to allow more local configuration of systems.\n\nIn January 2009, MPs criticised DH for its confidentiality agreement with key supplier CSC and in March the department was admonished by the Information Commissioner for its records management. In May 2011, Prime Minister David Cameron announced that he was considering scrapping the project.\n\nIn response to Government spending reduction targets following the 2008-9 international financial crisis and subsequent recession, DH in common with several other Government Departments resorted to large-scale staffing reductions. In order to minimise redundancy costs, the predominant impact was upon DH staff not employed through a traditional civil service 'headcount' contract, with a resultantly emphasised effect upon more recent or innovative work-streams dependent upon seconded or externally hosted staff. This has attracted criticism from several of the professional and patient communities of interest concerned, for instance as regards the impact upon Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) and the withdrawal of the practical assistance available to the NHS and local authorities via the National Support Teams.\n\nMost health policy in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland is devolved to the department's counterparts:\n\nA number of health issues are, however, wholly or partly reserved to Westminster:\n\nScotland \n\nNorthern Ireland \n\nIn Northern Ireland, abortion law is a criminal justice matter and is devolved.\n\nWales\n\nUnder the Welsh devolution settlement, specific policy areas are transferred to the Welsh Government rather than reserved to Westminster. As the distinction between Government and actual health services is seen as less pronounced than in England, the main source of information about current developments is the NHS Wales article.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42468583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42468583", "title": "Department of Health and Social Care (Isle of Man)", "text": "Department of Health and Social Care (Isle of Man)\n\nThe Department of Health and Social Care () is the largest (by number of personnel and budget) of the seven departments of the Isle of Man Government. It was created on 1 April 2014 as a result of a merger of health and social care services from the former Department of Health and Department of Social Care. The intention to merge the two Departments was announced on 2 December 2013 as part of the Council of Ministers' plans to modernize ministerial government. The move was by and large a reversal of one element of the restructuring of the Isle of Man Government in April 2010 which saw the former Department of Health and Social Security split to form the Department of Health and the Department of Social Care.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35926154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35926154", "title": "Direct bs/md", "text": "Direct bs/md\n\nDirect BS/MD Programs, also known as Combined BS/MD programs or Dual degree program, offered by specific universities and colleges across the America that awards a Bachelor's Degree in Science (B.S.) and a Medical Degree (M.D.). Depending on the program, the student may earn a Bachelor's Degree in Arts (B.A.). These programs are highly competitive and are directed toward high school students who are interested in medicine. Some universities like Texila American University waive the MCAT exam for admission into the program's affiliated medical school while other program require a certain score on the MCAT. There are over 70 programs in the country that offer this type of admission for high school students.\n\n"}
{"id": "17746102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17746102", "title": "Donald Hunter (physician)", "text": "Donald Hunter (physician)\n\nDonald Hunter CBE FRCP (11 February 1898 – 11 December 1978) was a British physician and author of a classic text on occupational medicine, \"The Diseases of Occupations\".\n\nHunter was born in the East End of London. His father was George Hunter, a deputy engineer in the General Post Office. He entered The London Hospital in 1915 but left in World War I to become a surgeon probationer RNVR in \"HMS Faulkner\" in the Dover Patrol. After the war, he returned to The London Hospital and qualified in 1920.\n\nFollowing a series of house appointments, he became first assistant to Lord Dawson of Penn (1864–1945) and then was appointed Assistant Physician to The London Hospital in 1927. He completed his MD degree in 1922 and FRCP in 1929.\n\nHunter became curator to the Medical School Museum in 1933, and during his 30 years in office collected specimens said to ‘represent almost all that is worth having in morbid anatomy’. He later became Director of the Medical Research Council’s Department for Research in Industrial Medicine at The London Hospital. In 1925 he married Mathilda Bugnion, daughter of a Lutheran Pastor from Lausanne, Switzerland. They had four children, two of whom became doctors.\n\nIn 1935 he gave a series of lectures to the Derby Medical Society on occupational diseases. These lectures were followed by other publications, often jointly with colleagues. These all culminated in his 1955 book \"The Diseases of Occupations\" which became a classic \"as soon as it was published\". It was said that he wrote all 1000 pages by getting up at 5 a.m. for 18 months. It has been criticized as \"perhaps lacking in balance\" and being \"sometimes irrelevant\" but \"always entertaining and gaining immeasurably from its readability and its impact on the medical profession.\"\n\nThere followed a Penguin Book \"Health in Industry\" published in 1959. Hunter was founder Editor of the British Journal of Industrial Medicine.\n\nHunter's memory is preserved not only by his book but also by a Donald Hunter Room at the Royal College of Physicians. There is also a Donald Hunter House in London which provides accommodation for students.\n\nDonald Hunter CBE MD FRCP, Geoffrey O Storey. \"Journal of Medical Biography\", Vol.15, No.3, pp. 153–157\n"}
{"id": "427922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427922", "title": "Drug rehabilitation", "text": "Drug rehabilitation\n\nDrug rehabilitation is the process of medical or psychotherapeutic treatment for dependency on psychoactive substances such as alcohol, prescription drugs, and street drugs such as marijuana, cocaine, heroin or amphetamines. The general intent is to enable the patient to confront substance dependence, if present, and cease substance abuse to avoid the psychological, legal, financial, social, and physical consequences that can be caused, especially by extreme abuse. Treatment includes medication for depression or other disorders, counseling by experts and sharing of experience with other addicts.\n\nPsychological dependency is addressed in many drug rehabilitation programs by attempting to teach the patient new methods of interacting in a drug-free environment. In particular, patients are generally encouraged, or possibly even required, to not associate with peers who still use the addictive substance. Twelve-step programs encourage addicts not only to stop using alcohol or other drugs, but to examine and change habits related to their addictions. Many programs emphasize that recovery is a permanent process without culmination. For legal drugs such as alcohol, complete abstention—rather than attempts at moderation, which may lead to relapse—is also emphasized (\"One is too many, and a thousand is never enough.\") Whether moderation is achievable by those with a history of abuse remains a controversial point, but is generally considered unsustainable.\n\nThe brain’s chemical structure is impacted by drugs of abuse and these changes are present long after an individual stops using. This change in brain structure increases the risk of relapse, making treatment an important part of the rehabilitation process.\n\nVarious types of programs offer help in drug rehabilitation, including: residential treatment (in-patient/ out-patient), local support groups, extended care centers, recovery or sober houses, addiction counselling, mental health, and medical care. Some rehab centers offer age- and gender-specific programs.\n\nIn a survey of treatment providers from three separate institutions (the National Association of Alcoholism and Drug Abuse Counselors, Rational Recovery Systems and the Society of Psychologists in Addictive Behaviors) measuring the treatment provider's responses on the Spiritual Belief Scale (a scale measuring belief in the four spiritual characteristics AA identified by Ernest Kurtz); the scores were found to explain 41% of the variance in the treatment provider's responses on the Addiction Belief Scale (a scale measuring adherence to the disease model or the free-will model addiction).\n\nScientific research since 1970 shows that effective treatment addresses the multiple needs of the patient rather than treating addiction alone. In addition, medically assisted drug detoxification or alcohol detoxification alone is ineffective as a treatment for addiction. The National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) recommends detoxification followed by both medication (where applicable) and behavioral therapy, followed by relapse prevention. According to NIDA, effective treatment must address medical and mental health services as well as follow-up options, such as community or family-based recovery support systems. Whatever the methodology, patient motivation is an important factor in treatment success.\n\nFor individuals addicted to prescription drugs, treatments tend to be similar to those who are addicted to drugs affecting the same brain systems. Medication like methadone and buprenorphine can be used to treat addiction to prescription opiates, and behavioral therapies can be used to treat addiction to prescription stimulants, benzodiazepines, and other drugs.\n\nTypes of behavioral therapy include:\n\nTreatment can be a long process and the duration is dependent upon the patient’s needs and history of abuse. Research has shown that most patients need at least 3 months of treatment and longer duration's are associated with better outcomes.\n\nCertain opioid medications such as methadone and more recently buprenorphine (In America, \"Subutex\" and \"Suboxone\") are widely used to treat addiction and dependence on other opioids such as heroin, morphine or oxycodone. Methadone and buprenorphine are maintenance therapies intended to reduce cravings for opiates, thereby reducing illegal drug use, and the risks associated with it, such as disease, arrest, incarceration, and death, in line with the philosophy of harm reduction. Both drugs may be used as maintenance medications (taken for an indefinite period of time), or used as detoxification aids. All available studies collected in the 2005 Australian National Evaluation of Pharmacotherapies for Opioid Dependence suggest that maintenance treatment is preferable, with very high rates (79–100%) of relapse within three months of detoxification from LAAM, buprenorphine, and methadone.\n\nAccording to the National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA), patients stabilized on adequate, sustained doses of methadone or buprenorphine can keep their jobs, avoid crime and violence, and reduce their exposure to HIV and Hepatitis C by stopping or reducing injection drug use and drug-related high risk sexual behavior. Naltrexone is a long-acting opioid antagonist with few side effects. It is usually prescribed in outpatient medical conditions. Naltrexone blocks the euphoric effects of alcohol and opiates. Naltrexone cuts relapse risk during the first 3 months by about 36%. However, it is far less effective in helping patients maintain abstinence or retaining them in the drug-treatment system (retention rates average 12% at 90 days for naltrexone, average 57% at 90 days for buprenorphine, average 61% at 90 days for methadone).\n\nIbogaine is a hallucinogenic drug promoted by certain fringe groups to interrupt both physical dependence and psychological craving to a broad range of drugs including narcotics, stimulants, alcohol, and nicotine. To date, there have never been any controlled studies showing it to be effective, and it is not accepted as a treatment by physicians, pharmacists, or addictionologist. There have also been several deaths related to ibogaine use, which causes tachycardia and long QT syndrome. The drug is an illegal Schedule I controlled substance in the United States, and the foreign facilities in which it is administered from tend to have little oversight, and range from motel rooms to one moderately-sized rehabilitation center.\n\nA few antidepressants have been proven to be helpful in the context of smoking cessation/nicotine addiction, these medications include bupropion and nortriptyline. Bupropion inhibits the re-uptake of nor-epinephrine and dopamine and has been FDA approved for smoking cessation, while nortriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant which has been used to aid in smoking cessation it has not been FDA approved for this indication.\n\nAcamprosate, disulfiram and topiramate (a novel anticonvulsant sulphonated sugar) are also used to treat alcohol addiction. Acamprosate has shown effectiveness for patients with severe dependence, helping them to maintain abstinence for several weeks, even months. Disulfiram (also called Antabuse) produces a very unpleasant reaction when drinking alcohol that includes flushing, nausea and palpitations. It is more effective for patients with high motivation and some addicts use it only for high-risk situations. Patients who wish to continue drinking or may be likely to relapse, should not take disulfiram as it can result in the disulfiram-alcohol reaction mentioned previously, which is very serious and can even be fatal \n\nNitrous oxide, also sometimes known as laughing gas, is a legally available gas used for purposes that include anesthesia during certain dental and surgical procedures, as well as food preparation and the fueling of rocket and racing engines. Substance abusers also sometimes use the gas as an inhalant. Like all other inhalants, it's popular because it provides consciousness-altering effects while allowing users to avoid some of the legal issues surrounding illicit or illegal drugs of abuse. Abuse of nitrogenous oxide can produce significant short-term and long-term damage to human health, including a form of oxygen starvation, called hypoxia, brain damage, and a serious vitamin B12 deficiency that can lead to nerve damage.\n\nAlthough dangerous and addictive in its own right, nitrogenous oxide has been shown to be an effective treatment for a number of addictions.\n\nIn-patient residential treatment for alcohol abuse is usually quite expensive without proper insurance. Most American programs follow a traditional 28–30 day program length. The length is based solely upon providers' experience. During the 1940's, clients stayed about one week to get over the physical changes, another week to understand the program, and another week or two to become stable. 70% to 80% of American residential alcohol treatment programs provide 12-step support services. These include, but are not limited to AA, NA, CA, Al-Anon One recent study suggests the importance of family participation in residential treatment patient retention, finding \"increased program completion rate for those with a family member or significant other involved in a seven-day family program.\"\n\n\"The Nature of Things\", a CBC Television program by David Suzuki, explored an experimental drug treatment by Dr. Gabor Maté in which the substance Ayahuasca was used to treat addicts in Vancouver.\n\nThe definition of recovery remains divided and subjective in drug rehabilitation, as there are no set standards for measuring recovery. The Betty Ford Institute defined recovery as achieving complete abstinence as well as personal well-being while other studies have considered \"near abstinence\" as a definition. The wide range of meanings has complicated the process of choosing rehabilitation programs.\n\nDrug rehabilitation is sometimes part of the criminal justice system. People convicted of minor drug offenses may be sentenced to rehabilitation instead of prison, and those convicted of driving while intoxicated are sometimes required to attend Alcoholics Anonymous meetings. There are a great number of ways to address an alternative sentence in a drug possession or DUI case; increasingly, American courts are willing to explore outside-the-box methods for delivering this service. There have been lawsuits filed, and won, regarding the requirement of attending Alcoholics Anonymous and other twelve-step meetings as being inconsistent with the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment of the U. S. Constitution, mandating separation of church and state.\n\nIn some cases, individuals can be court ordered to drug rehabilitation by the state through legislation like the Marchman Act.\n\nTraditional addiction treatment is based primarily on counseling.\n\nCounselors help individuals with identifying behaviors and problems related to their addiction. It can be done on an individual basis, but it's more common to find it in a group setting and can include crisis counseling, weekly or daily counseling, and drop-in counseling supports. Counselors are trained to develop recovery programs that help to reestablish healthy behaviors and provide coping strategies whenever a situation of risk happens. It's very common to see them also work with family members who are affected by the addictions of the individual, or in a community to prevent addiction and educate the public. Counselors should be able to recognize how addiction affects the whole person and those around him or her.\nCounseling is also related to \"Intervention\"; a process in which the addict's family and loved ones request help from a professional to get an individual into drug treatment. This process begins with a professionals' first goal: breaking down denial of the person with the addiction. Denial implies lack of willingness from the patients or fear to confront the true nature of the addiction and to take any action to improve their lives, instead of continuing the destructive behavior. Once this has been achieved, the counselor coordinates with the addict's family to support them on getting the individual to drug rehabilitation immediately, with concern and care for this person. Otherwise, this person will be asked to leave and expect no support of any kind until going into drug rehabilitation or alcoholism treatment. An intervention can also be conducted in the workplace environment with colleagues instead of family.\n\nOne approach with limited applicability is the Sober Coach. In this approach, the client is serviced by the provider(s) in his or her home and workplace – for any efficacy, around-the-clock – who functions much like a nanny to guide or control the patient's behavior.\n\nThe disease model of addiction has long contended the maladaptive patterns of alcohol and substance use displays addicted individuals are the result of a lifelong disease that is biological in origin and exacerbated by environmental contingencies. This conceptualization renders the individual essentially powerless over his or her problematic behaviors and unable to remain sober by himself or herself, much as individuals with a terminal illness being unable to fight the disease by themselves without medication. Behavioral treatment, therefore, necessarily requires individuals to admit their addiction, renounce their former lifestyle, and seek a supportive social network who can help them remain sober. Such approaches are the quintessential features of Twelve-step programs, originally published in the book Alcoholics Anonymous in 1939. These approaches have met considerable amounts of criticism, coming from opponents who disapprove of the spiritual-religious orientation on both psychological and legal grounds. Opponents also contend that it lacks valid scientific evidence for claims of efficacy. However, there is survey-based research that suggests there is a correlation between attendance and alcohol sobriety. Different results have been reached for other drugs, with the twelve steps being less beneficial for addicts to illicit substances, and least beneficial to those addicted to the physiologically and psychologically addicting opioids, for which maintenance therapies are the gold standard of care.\n\nSMART Recovery was founded by Joe Gerstein in 1994 by basing REBT as a foundation. It gives importance to the human agency in overcoming addiction and focuses on self-empowerment and self-reliance. It does not subscribe to disease theory and powerlessness. The group meetings involve open discussions, questioning decisions and forming corrective measures through assertive exercises. It does not involve a lifetime membership concept, but people can opt to attend meetings, and choose not to after gaining recovery. Objectives of the SMART Recovery programs are:\nThis is considered to be similar to other self-help groups who work within mutual aid concepts.\n\nIn his influential book, \"Client-Centered Therapy\", in which he presented the client-centered approach to therapeutic change, psychologist Carl Rogers proposed there are three necessary and sufficient conditions for personal change: unconditional positive regard, accurate empathy, and genuineness. Rogers believed the presence of these three items, in the therapeutic relationship, could help an individual overcome any troublesome issue, including but not limited to alcohol abuse. To this end, a 1957 study compared the relative effectiveness of three different psychotherapies in treating alcoholics who had been committed to a state hospital for sixty days: a therapy based on two-factor learning theory, client-centered therapy, and psychoanalytic therapy. Though the authors expected the two-factor theory to be the most effective, it actually proved to be deleterious in the outcome. Surprisingly, client-centered therapy proved most effective. It has been argued, however, these findings may be attributable to the profound difference in therapist outlook between the two-factor and client-centered approaches, rather than to client-centered techniques. The authors note two-factor theory involves stark disapproval of the clients' \"irrational behavior\" (p. 350); this notably negative outlook could explain the results.\n\nA variation of Rogers' approach has been developed in which clients are directly responsible for determining the goals and objectives of the treatment. Known as Client-Directed Outcome-Informed therapy (CDOI), this approach has been utilized by several drug treatment programs, such as Arizona's Department of Health Services.\n\nPsychoanalysis, a psychotherapeutic approach to behavior change developed by Sigmund Freud and modified by his followers, has also offered an explanation of substance abuse. This orientation suggests the main cause of the addiction syndrome is the unconscious need to entertain and to enact various kinds of homosexual and perverse fantasies, and at the same time to avoid taking responsibility for this. It is hypothesized specific drugs facilitate specific fantasies and using drugs is considered to be a displacement from, and a concomitant of, the compulsion to masturbate while entertaining homosexual and perverse fantasies. The addiction syndrome is also hypothesized to be associated with life trajectories that have occurred within the context of teratogenic processes, the phases of which include social, cultural and political factors, encapsulation, traumatophobia, and masturbation as a form of self-soothing. Such an approach lies in stark contrast to the approaches of social cognitive theory to addiction—and indeed, to behavior in general—which holds human beings to regulate and control their own environmental and cognitive environments, and are not merely driven by internal, driving impulses. Additionally, homosexual content is not implicated as a necessary feature in addiction.\n\nAn influential cognitive-behavioral approach to addiction recovery and therapy has been Alan Marlatt's (1985) Relapse Prevention approach. Marlatt describes four psycho-social processes relevant to the addiction and relapse processes: self-efficacy, outcome expectancy, attributions of causality, and decision-making processes. Self-efficacy refers to one's ability to deal competently and effectively with high-risk, relapse-provoking situations. Outcome expectancy refer to an individual's expectations about the psychoactive effects of an addictive substance. Attributions of causality refer to an individual's pattern of beliefs that relapse to drug use is a result of internal, or rather external, transient causes (e.g., allowing oneself to make exceptions when faced with what are judged to be unusual circumstances). Finally, decision-making processes are implicated in the relapse process as well. Substance use is the result of multiple decisions whose collective effects result in a consumption of the intoxicant. Furthermore, Marlatt stresses some decisions—referred to as apparently irrelevant decisions—may seem inconsequential to relapse, but may actually have downstream implications that place the user in a high-risk situation.\n\nFor example: As a result of heavy traffic, a recovering alcoholic may decide one afternoon to exit the highway and travel on side roads. This will result in the creation of a high-risk situation when he realizes he is inadvertently driving by his old favorite bar. If this individual is able to employ successful coping strategies, such as distracting himself from his cravings by turning on his favorite music, then he will avoid the relapse risk (PATH 1) and heighten his efficacy for future abstinence. If, however, he lacks coping mechanisms—for instance, he may begin ruminating on his cravings (PATH 2)—then his efficacy for abstinence will decrease, his expectations of positive outcomes will increase, and he may experience a lapse—an isolated return to substance intoxication. So doing results in what Marlatt refers to as the Abstinence Violation Effect, characterized by guilt for having gotten intoxicated and low efficacy for future abstinence in similar tempting situations. This is a dangerous pathway, Marlatt proposes, to full-blown relapse.\n\nAn additional cognitively-based model of substance abuse recovery has been offered by Aaron Beck, the father of cognitive therapy and championed in his 1993 book \"Cognitive Therapy of Substance Abuse\". This therapy rests upon the assumption addicted individuals possess core beliefs, often not accessible to immediate consciousness (unless the patient is also depressed). These core beliefs, such as \"I am undesirable,\" activate a system of addictive beliefs that result in imagined anticipatory benefits of substance use and, consequentially, craving. Once craving has been activated, permissive beliefs (\"I can handle getting high just this one more time\") are facilitated. Once a permissive set of beliefs have been activated, then the individual will activate drug-seeking and drug-ingesting behaviors. The cognitive therapist's job is to uncover this underlying system of beliefs, analyze it with the patient, and thereby demonstrate its dysfunctional. As with any cognitive-behavioral therapy, homework assignments and behavioral exercises serve to solidify what is learned and discussed during treatment.\n\nA growing literature is demonstrating the importance of emotion regulation in the treatment of substance abuse. Considering that nicotine and other psychoactive substances such as cocaine activate similar psycho-pharmacological pathways, an emotion regulation approach may be applicable to a wide array of substance abuse. Proposed models of affect-driven tobacco use have focused on negative reinforcement as the primary driving force for addiction; according to such theories, tobacco is used because it helps one escape from the undesirable effects of nicotine withdrawal or other negative moods. Acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), is showing evidence that it is effective in treating substance abuse, including the treatment of poly-substance abuse and cigarette smoking. Mindfulness programs that encourage patients to be aware of their own experiences in the present moment and of emotions that arise from thoughts, appear to prevent impulsive/compulsive responses. Research also indicates that mindfulness programs can reduce the consumption of substances such as alcohol, cocaine, amphetamines, marijuana, cigarettes and opiates.\n\nBehavioral models make use of principles of functional analysis of drinking behavior. Behavior models exist for both working with the substance abuser (Community Reinforcement Approach) and their family (Community Reinforcement Approach and Family Training). Both these models have had considerable research success for both efficacy and effectiveness. This model lays much emphasis on the use of problem-solving techniques as a means of helping the addict to overcome his/her addiction.\n\nDespite ongoing efforts to combat addiction, there has been evidence of clinics billing patients for treatments that may not guarantee their recovery. This is a major problem as there are numerous claims of fraud in drug rehabilitation centers, where these centers are billing insurance companies for under delivering much needed medical treatment while exhausting patients' insurance benefits. In California, there are movements and laws regarding this matter, particularly the California Insurance Fraud Prevention Act (IFPA) which declares it unlawful to unknowingly conduct such businesses.\n\nUnder the Affordable Care Act and the Mental Health Parity Act, rehabilitation centers are able to bill insurance companies for substance abuse treatment. With long wait lists in limited state-funded rehabilitation centers, controversial private centers rapidly emerged. One popular model, known as the Florida Model for rehabilitation centers, is often criticized for fraudulent billing to insurance companies. Under the guise of helping patients with opioid addiction, these centers would offer addicts free rent or up to $500 per month to stay in their \"sober homes\", then charge insurance companies as high as $5,000 to $10,000 per test for simple urine tests. Little attention is paid to patients in terms of addiction intervention as these patients have often been known to continue drug use during their stay in these centers. Since 2015, these centers have been under federal and state criminal investigation. As of 2017 in California, there are only 16 investigators in the CA Department of Health Care Services investigating over 2,000 licensed rehab centers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41098", "title": "Electromagnetic radiation and health", "text": "Electromagnetic radiation and health\n\nElectromagnetic radiation can be classified into two types: ionizing radiation and non-ionizing radiation, based on the capability of a single photon with more than 10 eV energy to ionize oxygen or break chemical bonds. Ultraviolet and higher frequencies, such as X-rays or gamma rays are ionizing, and these pose their own special hazards: see \"radiation\" and \"radiation poisoning\". By far the most common health hazard of radiation is sunburn, which causes over one million new skin cancers annually.\n\nVery strong radiation can induce current capable of delivering an electric shock to persons or animals. It can also overload and destroy electrical equipment. The induction of currents by oscillating magnetic fields is also the way in which solar storms disrupt the operation of electrical and electronic systems, causing damage to and even the explosion of power distribution transformers, blackouts (as occurred in 1989), and interference with electromagnetic signals (\"e.g.\" radio, TV, and telephone signals). \n\nExtremely high power electromagnetic radiation can cause electric currents strong enough to create sparks (electrical arcs) when an induced voltage exceeds the breakdown voltage of the surrounding medium (\"e.g.\" air at 3.0 MV/m). These sparks can then ignite flammable materials or gases, possibly leading to an explosion.\n\nThis can be a particular hazard in the vicinity of explosives or pyrotechnics, since an electrical overload might ignite them. This risk is commonly referred to as Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Ordnance (HERO) by the United States Navy (USN). United States Military Standard 464A (MIL-STD-464A) mandates assessment of HERO in a system, but USN document OD 30393 provides design principles and practices for controlling electromagnetic hazards to ordnance.\n\nOn the other hand, the risk related to fueling is known as Hazards of Electromagnetic Radiation to Fuel (HERF). NAVSEA OP 3565 Vol. 1 could be used to evaluate HERF, which states a maximum power density of 0.09 W/m² for frequencies under 225 MHz (i.e. 4.2 meters for a 40 W emitter).\n\nThe best understood biological effect of electromagnetic fields is to cause dielectric heating. For example, touching or standing around an antenna while a high-power transmitter is in operation can cause severe burns. These are exactly the kind of burns that would be caused inside a microwave oven.\n\nThis heating effect varies with the power and the frequency of the electromagnetic energy, as well as the distance to the source. A measure of the heating effect is the specific absorption rate or SAR, which has units of watts per kilogram (W/kg). The IEEE and many national governments have established safety limits for exposure to various frequencies of electromagnetic energy based on SAR, mainly based on ICNIRP Guidelines, which guard against thermal damage.\n\nThere are publications which support the existence of complex biological and neurological effects of weaker \"non-thermal\" electromagnetic fields (see Bioelectromagnetics), including weak ELF magnetic fields and modulated RF and microwave fields. Fundamental mechanisms of the interaction between biological material and electromagnetic fields at non-thermal levels are not fully understood.\n\nFluorescent light bulbs and tubes internally produce ultraviolet light. Normally this is converted to visible light by the phosphor film inside a protective coating. When the film is cracked by mishandling or faulty manufacturing then UV may escape at levels that could cause sunburn or even skin cancer.\n\nWhile the most acute exposures to harmful levels of electromagnetic radiation are immediately realized as burns, the health effects due to chronic or occupational exposure may not manifest effects for months or years.\n\nHigh-power, extremely-low-frequency RF with electric field levels in the low kV/m range are known to induce perceivable currents within the human body that create an annoying tingling sensation. These currents will typically flow to ground through a body contact surface such as the feet, or arc to ground where the body is well insulated.\n\nShortwave (1.6 to 30 MHz) diathermy heating of human tissue only heats tissues that are good electrical conductors, such as blood vessels and muscle. Adipose tissue (fat) receives little heating by induction fields because an electrical current is not actually going through the tissues.\n\nThis designation of mobile phone signals as \"possibly carcinogenic to humans\" by the World Health Organization (WHO) (e.g. its IARC, see below) has often been misinterpreted as indicating that of some measure of risk has been observed however the designation indicates only that the possibility could not be conclusively ruled out using the available data.\n\nIn 2011, International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) classified mobile phone radiation as Group 2B \"possibly carcinogenic\" (\"rather than\" Group 2A \"probably carcinogenic\" nor the \"is carcinogenic\" Group 1). That means that there \"could be some risk\" of carcinogenicity, so additional research into the long-term, heavy use of mobile phones needs to be conducted. The WHO concluded in 2014 that \"A large number of studies have been performed over the last two decades to assess whether mobile phones pose a potential health risk. To date, no adverse health effects have been established as being caused by mobile phone use.\"\n\nRecent technology advances in the developments of millimeter wave scanners for airport security and WiGig for personal area networks have opened the 60 GHz and above microwave band to SAR exposure regulations. Previously, microwave applications in these bands were for point-to-point satellite communication with minimal human exposure. Radiation levels in the millimeter wavelength represent the high microwave band or close to Infrared wavelengths.\n\nInfrared wavelengths longer than 750 nm can produce changes in the lens of the eye. Glassblower's cataract is an example of a heat injury that damages the anterior lens capsule among unprotected glass and iron workers. Cataract-like changes can occur in workers who observe glowing masses of glass or iron without protective eyewear for many hours a day.\nAnother important factor is the distance between the worker and the source of radiation. In the case of arc welding, infrared radiation decreases rapidly as a function of distance, so that farther than three feet away from where welding takes place, it does not pose an ocular hazard anymore but, ultraviolet radiation still does. This is why welders wear tinted glasses and surrounding workers only have to wear clear ones that filter UV.\n\nModerate and high-power lasers are potentially hazardous because they can burn the retina of the eye, or even the skin. To control the risk of injury, various specifications – for example ANSI Z136 in the US, and IEC 60825 internationally – define \"classes\" of lasers depending on their power and wavelength.\n\nRegulations prescribe required safety measures, such as labeling lasers with specific warnings, and wearing laser safety goggles during operation (see laser safety).\n\nAs with its infrared and ultraviolet radiation dangers, welding creates an intense brightness in the visible light spectrum, which may cause temporary flash blindness. Some sources state that there is no minimum safe distance for exposure to these radiation emissions without adequate eye protection.\n\nShort-term exposure to strong ultraviolet sunlight causes sunburn within hours of exposure.\n\nUltraviolet light, specifically UV-B, has been shown to cause cataracts and there is some evidence that sunglasses worn at an early age can slow its development in later life. Most UV light from the sun is filtered out by the atmosphere and consequently airline pilots often have high rates of cataracts because of the increased levels of UV radiation in the upper atmosphere. It is hypothesized that depletion of the ozone layer and a consequent increase in levels of UV light on the ground may increase future rates of cataracts. Note that the lens filters UV light, so once that is removed via surgery, one may be able to see UV light.\n\nProlonged exposure to ultraviolet radiation from the sun can lead to melanoma and other skin malignancies. Clear evidence establishes ultraviolet radiation, especially the non-ionizing medium wave UVB, as the cause of most non-melanoma skin cancers, which are the most common forms of cancer in the world. UV rays can also cause wrinkles, liver spots, moles, and freckles. In addition to sunlight, other sources include tanning beds, and bright desk lights. Damage is cumulative over one's lifetime, so that permanent effects may not be evident for some time after exposure.\n\nUltraviolet radiation of wavelengths shorter than 300 nm (actinic rays) can damage the corneal epithelium. This is most commonly the result of exposure to the sun at high altitude, and in areas where shorter wavelengths are readily reflected from bright surfaces, such as snow, water, and sand. UV generated by a welding arc can similarly cause damage to the cornea, known as \"arc eye\" or welding flash burn, a form of photokeratitis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4857547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4857547", "title": "European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer", "text": "European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer\n\nThe European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) is an international non-profit organization with a scientific goal created in 1962 by European cancer specialists. The organization’s head office is located in Brussels. Today, the co-ordination and analysis center includes over 150 staff members from many different nationalities. Since 1972, the National Cancer Institute has had a liaison office nearby to promote cooperation and coordination of cancer research in the United States and Europe.\n\nEORTC’s mission is to promote, coordinate, analyze and publish clinical cancer research carried out by about 20 co-operating and multidisciplinary groups consisting of all types of cancer related specialists: radiotherapists, surgeons, medical oncologists, pathologists, immunologists, etc., to improve the treatment, and therefore the survival and quality of life, of all cancer patients.\n\nEuropean focus and a global partnership\n\nEORTC is the only organization which carries out clinical studies at European level for all types of cancer. These activities allow the compilation of data on a large number of patients, ensuring that valid and convincing statistics are made available as quickly as possible. The multidisciplinary expertise of EORTC makes the organization an ideal partner for other academic networks. Co-operative clinical trials aiming rare tumors and frequent tumor sub-entities (identified by molecular changes) can therefore be carried out efficiently, ensuring the credibility of results and their rapid implementation. This partnership is not limited to European academic groups but also extends to both the American and Canadian National Cancer Institutes and several Australian networks.\n\nA rigorous and independent methodology\n\nThe scientific design and analysis of each study is always carried out independently. EORTC also supports valuable co-operation between researchers, clinicians and the pharmaceutical industry to evaluate innovative molecules and shorten the period between the discovery of a new medication and its actual use.\n\n\nThe EORTC has designed new benchmark treatments, in particular for: \n\nEORTC Charitable Trust\n\nThe EORTC Charitable Trust was created in 1976 to collect the necessary funds for EORTC to function with the cooperation of national cancer leagues involved in the fight against cancer (Germany, Belgium, Denmark, France, Hong Kong, Norway, The Netherlands, The UK, Switzerland, Sweden, etc.). Albert II, Prince of Monaco is the Honorary President and Sir Christopher Mallaby chairs the Board of Directors of the EORTC Charitable Trust.\n\nTransparent and diversified financing\n\nEORTC research is supported by the EORTC Charitable Trust, the National Cancer Institute (NCI) of the United States of America, Fonds Cancer (FOCA), and the Belgian National Lottery. The European Commission provides support only for selected projects. Partnerships with the pharmaceutical industry have been set up within the framework of special studies approved by an independent peer review committee. Nevertheless, more than 70% of clinical studies led by EORTC focus on drugs that have already been commercialized or on combined strategies such as radiotherapy and surgery and consequently these studies require financial support from other sources. Additional contributions and sponsorship are vital to cover these scientific activities where the main goal is to effectively promote European cancer clinical research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1294820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1294820", "title": "Feminists for Life", "text": "Feminists for Life\n\nFeminists for Life of America (FFL) is a non-profit, pro-life feminist, non-governmental organization (NGO). Established in 1972, and now based in Alexandria, Virginia, the organization describes itself as \"shaped by the core feminist values of justice, non-discrimination, and non-violence\". FFL is dedicated to \"systematically eliminating the root causes that drive women to abortion -primarily lack of practical resources and support - through holistic, woman-centered solutions\".\nFFL publishes a quarterly magazine, The American Feminist, and aims to reach young women, college students in particular.\n\nFeminists for Life professes to \"stand on more than two hundred years of pro-life feminist history\", continuing a tradition of nineteenth-century American feminists such as Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton. This position has been challenged by critics who question comparisons between 19th and 20th century views on abortion, as well as the attribution of certain quotations to Anthony.\n\nFeminists for Life was founded by Pat Goltz and Cathy Callaghan in Ohio in 1972. Goltz and Callaghan met in a judo club on the campus of Ohio State University, where Callaghan was a tenured professor of linguistics. In 1974, Goltz was expelled from the Columbus, Ohio, chapter of the National Organization for Women (NOW) for arguing that abortion violated feminist principles, although she and Callaghan were not expelled from national NOW membership.\n\nFFL describes itself as a non-sectarian, non-partisan, grassroots organization, and its members as believing in \"the strength of women and the potential of every human life\", refusing \"to choose between women and children\", believing that \"no woman should be forced to choose between sacrificing her education and career plans and sacrificing her child\", and as rejecting violence and exploitation.\n\nFFL uses \"pro-women\" arguments in order to convince women that abortion is \"immoral\". Goltz argued that the legalization of abortion allowed sexually exploitative men to avoid responsibilities, like paying for child support, and run away from their actions. FFL argues that abortion comes from gender inequality. In response to Roe v. Wade, Callaghan made several claims, including that abortion causes bodily injury to women \"in a third to a half of the cases\", and that the Supreme Court legalized abortion because they \"hate poor and unwed mothers\". This claim is called \"unsubstantiated\" by professor Kelsy Kretschmer. However, Kretschmer does explain that the goal of these arguments were to make it hard for men and women to consider abortion a \"feminist\" victory.\n\nFFL describes its broader vision as opposing all forms of violence, which it considers \"inconsistent with the core feminist principles of justice, non-violence and non-discrimination\", including the death penalty, assisted suicide, euthanasia,<ref name=\"The Euthanasia/Abortion Connection\"></ref> infanticide and child abuse. FFL strives for the traditional feminist goal of equality for women in the workplace. FFL claims that its pro-life positions are not merely compatible with feminism, but are the natural conclusion of feminist values.\n\nWith respect to abortions allegedly required to save the life of the mother, FFL states that it \"refuse[s] to choose between women and children\". FFL contends that doctors sometimes advise abortion because \"they are unaware of other options, or because they are pressured by fear of malpractice suits\". FFL argues that physicians \"should treat both patients and do what they can to save both lives [because] [t]his is what was done before the \"Roe\" decision was handed down\". With respect to ectopic pregnancies (which are not medically classified as abortion), FFL states that, \"Since the child has no chance of survival, and the mother can survive if the pregnancy is ended, we must do what we can to save her. To let both die would not be pro-life.\"\n\nFFL's pro-life positions have been criticized by some traditional feminists. Katha Pollitt, columnist for \"The Nation\", argues that FFL seeks to make abortion illegal in all cases, including those of rape, incest, health, major fetal defects, and \"even some abortions most doctors would say were necessary to save the woman's life\". Former FFL board member Sharon Long responded that, \"FFL opposes the criminalization of women (as almost everyone in the pro-life movement does) and focuses our efforts on freeing women from abortion by addressing the issues reported by the Guttmacher Institute - and working along with pro-choice advocates to check off our task list\". Pollitt also states that FFL president Serrin Foster \"professed ignorance\" about rates of death and injury in countries where abortion has been illegal.\n\nFeminists for Life is inclusive of anyone supporting its mission, regardless of personal opinions about contraception or pre-conception issues, stating, \"Preconception issues are outside FFL's mission\". FFL also states that its members and supporters \"hold a broad spectrum of opinions regarding preconception issues, and FFL welcomes anyone committed to working alongside us in our shared mission\". FFL and its representatives have repeatedly reiterated that the group takes no position on contraception. Prominent FFL member Sarah Palin stated in 2006, \"I'm pro-contraception, and I think kids who may not hear about it at home should hear about it in other avenues\".\n\nSome commentators have criticized FFL for not promoting contraception. Katha Pollitt says that she asked Serrin Foster about it, and that Foster replied in part that the Pill did not work for teenagers, which Pollitt said was a belief she knew to be false. Foster has said that FFL members hold a wide range of beliefs about contraception. Feminist scholar Laury Oaks pointed out that FFL's silence on the subjects of contraception and safer sex \"fails to address some of the most critical sexual and reproductive issues for women and presents views on pregnancy that cannot encompass the reality of many women's experiences\".\n\nFFL publishes a quarterly magazine called \"The American Feminist\" that is included with membership in the organization. Each issue is centrally focused on a theme like \"Remarkable Pro-Life Women—Part III\", \"Pro-Woman Answers to Pro-Choice Questions\" and \"Our Pro-Woman, Pro-Life Legacy\". Using original and reprinted articles \"The American Feminist\" shows a \"reliance on factual data, experiential testimony, and well-phrased analysis of abortion-related issues that can't be dismissed as expressions of inherited, unexamined religious beliefs\". Regular features include \"Herstory\"—a profile of an abortion opponent, news items, and legislative updates.\n\nIn 1994, Foster began to visit college campuses to deliver her speech \"The Feminist Case \"Against\" Abortion\". FFL established a college outreach program in 1996. The program provides information, excluding contraception but including the coercive factors that drive college women to choose between their education and bearing children.\n\nFor a college audience, FFL designed a promotional campaign that challenged abortion rights advocacy and provided information for pregnant women, not including how to obtain an abortion. FFL members created several kits for student activists, a kit for residential advisers and psychological counselors, a feminist history kit for libraries, and challenging ads for college audiences, in addition to the resources available through FFL's website. Two of the eight \"Question Abortion\" posters offered in 2000 touched upon political issues, one of these saying \"No law can make the wrong choice right\". One poster used an image of Susan B. Anthony and an out-of-context quote of hers determined two years earlier by FFL historian Mary Krane Derr to be about estate law, not abortion. Other posters recast choice as the \"imperative to have an abortion\", or implied that life was better before abortion rights, back when abortion was illegal. FFl also has more controversial posters that verify their anti abortion stance even in the terms of rape or incest. FFL reports that its College Outreach Program has reached more than 5 million students since 1994, and that the rate of abortion among college-educated women has dropped by 30%.\n\nOne of the goals of the college program is to get members of college campuses to help advocate for student parenting as a way to reduce the prevalence of abortion. This is an example of \"common ground\" advocacy. Both sides of the abortion issues are coming together in attempt to work together to find solutions for other issues relating to abortion. \"\n\nIn 1997 Planned Parenthood Federation of America's \"INsider\" called FFL's growing College Outreach Program the \"newest and most challenging concept in anti-choice organizing\" and predicted it could \"have a profound impact\" on college campuses.\n\nFFL believes that there should be daycares on college campuses', dorm housing for women with children, and maternity coverage in health insurances. They blame Pro-Choice activists for failing to secure provisions that would help make motherhood an easier choice for women.\n\nFeminists for Life's \"Women Deserve Better\" campaign was launched in 2003 on the 30th anniversary of \"Roe v. Wade\". FFL described it as \"a long-term public education effort examining the failure of abortion. The campaign aims to refocus the nation on the reasons women feel pressured into abortion and to promote women-centered solutions\". The basic message of the campaign, featured on billboards, posters, and placards, was \"Abortion is a reflection that we have not met the needs of women. Women deserve better than abortion.\"\n\n\"Abortion is not a measure of society's success in meeting the needs of women\", explained Foster, \"it's a measure of its failure. Why celebrate failure? Abortion is a symptom of—never a solution to—the problems faced by women... abortion has completely failed as a social policy designed to aid women...women have had to settle for far less than they need and deserve\".\n\nThe \"Women Deserve Better\" and the \"Refuse to Choose\" slogans reflected what FFL saw as integrated aspects of their philosophy. Foster explained: \"We refuse to choose between women and children. We refuse to choose between sacrificing our education and career plans or sacrificing our children\".\n\nThe major legislative goal of FFL's \"Women Deserve Better\" campaign was the passage of the Elizabeth Cady Stanton Pregnant and Parenting Students Act by Congress. The Elizabeth Cady Stanton Act was first introduced into the United States Senate by Elizabeth Dole on November 8, 2005, and into the House of Representatives by Melissa Hart the next day. The first Capitol Hill briefing on the legislation took place on February 15, 2006. The bill was criticized by writer Emily Bazelon in \"Mother Jones\" as a \"largely hollow 'message bill'\". Bazelon opined that the 10 million dollars provided by the bill would be \"paltry\" when spread nationwide. Bazelon quoted Frances Kissling, leader of the pro-choice organization Catholics for a Free Choice, as calling the bill \"not serious\", and adding that \"if we support these message bills that don't really give women much help, then the real message we send is that we're not strongly committed to women\".\n\nOn July 12, 2010, Feminists for Life announced that the Elizabeth Cady Stanton Pregnant and Parenting Student Services Act had been incorporated as the basis of one of three components in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act's Pregnancy Assistance Fund. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services announced that \"The Act appropriates $25 million for each of fiscal years 2010 through 2019 for the purpose of awarding competitive grants to States and Indian tribes or reservations. It is anticipated that up to 25 grants in the amounts of $500,000 - $2,000,000 per year will be awarded\". FFL President Serrin M. Foster said, \"This is what we have been working towards. Pregnancy and parenting should never terminate an education\".\n\nFeminists for Life has been a participant in the annual March for Life in Washington, D.C. and a sponsor of the Walk for Life West Coast in San Francisco, both of which mark the anniversary of the United States Supreme Court decision of \"Roe v. Wade\".\n\nFeminists for Life professes to \"stand on more than two hundred years of pro-life feminist history\", continuing the tradition of early feminists such as Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Mary Wollstonecraft, and Alice Paul, as well as others whose remarks they contend indicated opposition to abortion. FFL's president has asserted that, \"Without known exception, the early feminists condemned abortion in the strongest possible terms\". FFL's website features quotes from Anthony and Wollstonecraft, but the context and meaning of such quotes has been disputed by Anthony and Wollstonecraft scholars. One quote is taken from an anonymous essay called \"Marriage and Maternity\", published in Anthony's newspaper and signed \"A\", which Ann Dexter Gordon says was not how Anthony signed her writings and contains views that conflict with her \"known beliefs\".\nA quote by suffragist and lecturer Mattie Brinkerhoff, from an 1869 letter to the editor of \"The Revolution\", appears on the inside front cover of almost every issue of FFL's magazine, \"The American Feminist\": When a man steals to satisfy hunger, we may safely conclude that there is something wrong in society—so when a woman destroys the life of her unborn child, it is an evidence that either by education or circumstances she has been greatly wronged\".\n\nFFL cites the writings of Stanton, a likely practitioner of contraception to enable family planning and an opponent of the Comstock laws restricting education about contraception and abortion, who began her fight for women's rights about 12 years earlier than Anthony. Known for her radical stance on many divisive issues of the day, Stanton helped organize the Seneca Falls Convention, the first women's rights convention, in Seneca Falls, New York. Stanton wrote,\n\nLet woman assert herself in all her native purity, dignity, and strength, and end this wholesale suffering and murder of helpless children.\n\nIn 2007, Foster noted that FFL had reached 26,000 members, including the families of women who joined. A number of the members are well known in the arts and politics.\n\nTwo-time Emmy Award winning actress Patricia Heaton and actress Margaret Colin are honorary co-chairs of FFL. Actress Kate Mulgrew is also an FFL supporter.\n\nJane Sullivan Roberts, wife of U.S. Chief Justice John Roberts, served as pro bono legal counsel to FFL for twelve years and is a former executive vice president of FFL's board of directors. During the confirmation hearings for John Roberts, his position on abortion was questioned in light of his wife's FFL membership, leading to intensified focus by the media on the group.\n\nSarah Palin, the first woman to be nominated by the Republican Party for Vice President of the United States and the first female governor of Alaska, has been a FFL member since 2006.\n\nIn the 1970s, FFL founders Pat Goltz and Cathy Callaghan met many other pro-life feminists who similarly were or felt excluded from women's organizations during the Women's Liberation Movement's second wave. In protest, Goltz and dozens of other pro-life feminists picketed the National NOW convention, hoping to draw attention to the controversy. The plan backfired when most media sources failed to pick up the story, and the few that did only mentioned that the pickets were by a pro-life group, failing to convey the full meaning of the protest.\n\nGoltz later drew attention to what she saw as the growing trend of pro-life feminism and hostility against it from the feminist establishment. While testifying before a Congressional panel in 1975, Goltz stated, \"The National Organization for Women suppresses any woman who is pro-life. It does not matter how sincere her feminism on the basic issues.\" (Senate Testimony, 1975)\n\nThe newsletter, \"Sisterlife\", was first published during Goltz's tenure as national president. Originally the \"Feminists for Life Journal\", the newsletter got its unique name from a letter to Goltz by a member of the Canadian chapter of FFL, who instead of closing her letter with the customary \"In Sisterhood\", wrote \"In Sisterlife\". Editors conferred the title on the newsletter, feeling that it reflected what they saw as a dedication to life from conception to natural death.\n\nFFL was active in the ten-year battle to ratify the ill-fated Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). The organization's commitment to the ERA formed with the organization, during Goltz's presidency. Unlike Goltz, Callaghan was not immediately convinced of the need for the amendment, having achieved success as a professor at Ohio State University. Callaghan soon changed her mind, however, and began to support the amendment. In 1973, Goltz published an article (included in the anthology, \"Pro-Life Feminism: Yesterday and Today\") disparaging the fact that the widespread fear of abortion on demand had blocked the ratification of ERA in Ohio at the time, and that it would eventually kill the amendment's ratification.\n\nLike many other feminist groups of the women's liberation movement, the personal experiences of members of FFL were what informed their drive for equality and social justice. Many pro-life feminists had experiences with pregnancy discrimination, abortion, rape, child molestation. Their stories were published in various journals, newsletters, and other publications. Many of these stories were included in the anthology, \"Pro-Life Feminism: Different Voices\".\n\nAfter five years as president of FFL, Goltz retired. In 1977, organizational management was moved to Wisconsin. The group's activities focused on being a presence at both pro-life and feminist events, distributing literature, and writing letters to various publications. A national workshop that became an annual conference for pro-life feminists was launched during this time. Many members supported both the Equal Rights Amendment and a Human Life Amendment as \"complementary in their concern for human life\".\n\nFFL's work for the Equal Rights Amendment was met with a great deal of resistance, including strong resistance at pro-E.R.A. demonstrations, when FFL members attempted to distribute Pro-Life/Pro-E.R.A. tracts. In the late 1970s, Goltz spoke with the legendary suffragist Alice Paul, who authored the original Equal Rights Amendment. Paul conveyed to Goltz her belief that abortion was inconsistent with feminism, and that many of the founding mothers of feminism disapproved. She also related her fear that the increased attempts to link abortion to E.R.A. would prevent the amendment's ratification, and eventually end feminism as well.\n\nIn June 1984, at the annual FFL meeting in Omaha, Nebraska, peace activist Rachel MacNair was elected president of FFL. Out of her office at a crisis pregnancy center in Kansas City, Missouri, she ran FFL for ten years. Under MacNair, FFL began to receive more national exposure through media interviews, involvement in a broad spectrum of pro-life issues, and invitations to speak at pro-life events. By 1989, FFL was quoting 19th-century feminists who were described as opposed to abortion. During 1992, MacNair also worked toward founding the Susan B. Anthony List as a political action committee working against abortion through electing pro-life candidates.\n\nIn June 1994, the organization relocated its national office to Washington, D. C., where FFL re-organized its structure, and updated its image: The \"Sisterlife\" newsletter was renamed as \"The American Feminist\" magazine, a website was created, and new outreach programs were developed, including the College Outreach Program. FFL also became more involved in political advocacy, working to ensure the passage of the Violence Against Women Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, and enhanced enforcement for child support. Child exclusion provisions in the Welfare Reform Act were opposed by FFL.\n\nAt the 2002 March for Life, which observes the anniversary of the Supreme Court's \"Roe v. Wade\" decision, several members of the Pro-Life Alliance of Gays and Lesbians (PLAGAL) were arrested for attempting to march under the PLAGAL banner, on the orders of Nellie Gray, holder of the permit for the march. Foster came out publicly in support of PLAGAL, saying she also had had similar run-ins with Gray in the past.\n\nIn mid-2005, the Woodward Building, which housed the offices of Feminists for Life, the National Organization for Women, and \"The Hill\" newspaper, among others, closed to be converted into apartments. FFL moved their headquarters to Alexandria, Virginia. FFL's recent work has involved advocating laws protecting pregnant women from being coerced into an abortion, laws that provide pregnant and parenting students with services, and monitoring cases of pregnancy discrimination.\n\nOn February 15, 2006, the first major Congressional discussions on the Elizabeth Cady Stanton Pregnant and Parenting Students Act began. The act was passed in 2010 to supply funds during 2011–2019 for pregnant students and parents in school.\n\nFFL's New York chapter was dissolved in 2007, and replaced by a new organization, Feminists Choosing Life of New York.\n\nCarol Crossed, founder of the New York chapter of Democrats for Life of America and former board member of FFL's New York chapter, purchased the Adams, Massachusetts, birthplace of Susan B. Anthony on August 5, 2006. FFL did not own the Susan B. Anthony birthplace, which was opened as the Susan B. Anthony Birthplace Museum on February 14, 2010. Its mission states, \"The Museum will highlight the familial and regional influences which shaped Ms. Anthony's early life, by displaying the textiles and furnishings of that period, as well as the literature and other memorabilia associated with her later career\". The birthplace is managed by The Susan B. Anthony Birthplace Museum, a non-profit corporation.\n\nIn 2004, FFL launched an International Outreach Program, reflecting that abortion is a global issue. According to FFL's \"Global Vision\":\n\n\"Abortion doesn't put food on the table, or provide clean water. After an abortion, a woman returns to the same situation that drove her there. One abortion is too many. It means we have failed women\", argued FFL's international outreach director Marie Smith. \"What women want and need is full participation as citizens, equal access to resources and opportunities, and enforced legal protection against discrimination, violence, and oppression... Education is the most empowering choice for any woman's future.\" FFL refers to early American feminist Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who said, \"There must be a remedy for such a crying evil as [abortion]. But where shall it be found, at least where begin, if not the complete enfranchisement and elevation of woman?\"\n\nIn 2005, FFL was granted special consultative status as a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) by the United Nations' Economic and Social Council.\n\nFeminists for Life International is the international organization beyond its national groups Feminists for Life of America, and Feminists for Life of Ireland, which focuses on global violations of women's rights, particularly poverty, sex trafficking, domestic violence, and abortion.\n\nThe Spring-Summer Edition 2002 of \"The American Feminist\" was devoted to monitoring crimes against women around the world, including abortion, sex trafficking, bride burning, female genital mutilation, forced illiteracy, and sweatshop labor. Three other editions of the organization's newsletter were specifically devoted to monitoring sex trafficking.\n\nFeminists for Life International also supported the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals by publishing a statement saying, \"Feminists for Life believes that the Millennium Development Goals are life-affirming targets that, if achieved, will greatly improve billions of lives around the globe. Women and children will be freed from lives of poverty, hunger, death, disease, and despair. We support the promotion of these goals and work to ensure that all members of society, including the unborn, benefit from their promotion and achievement.\" FFL's international director and UN representative Marie Smith cautioned, however, that \"[w]omen's advocates must unite and direct our full attention to addressing the unmet needs of women - life-saving health care and nutrition, eliminating poverty through education and work opportunities, protecting women and children from violence and exploitation. Abortion is a sign that women's needs have not been met, and women deserve better.\" \"While Feminists for Life was gratified that the concluding document of the Summit was not compromised by the insertion of 'sexual or reproductive rights' (code for abortion), we believe caution must be taken with language that was adopted into the document. The inclusion, 'Ensuring equal access to reproductive health', is problematic. While 'reproductive health' has never been defined by the members of the United Nations to include abortion, proponents of abortion often use a broad definition of this term that includes abortion as a part of fertility regulation.\" \"Political word games do not serve women. Word games distract us and delay our efforts to help those in greatest need\".\n\nAdditionally, Smith published an editorial in 2005 in the \"Washington Times\" on the growing problem of sex trafficking of young Americans in the United States as a result of homelessness, child abuse, and poverty.\n\nFeminists for Life also had an international branch in Ireland, known as Feminists for Life of Ireland, now defunct. The group was once headed by Breda O'Brien, who was profiled by \"The American Feminist\"'s project \"Herstory Worth Repeating\".\n\nFeminists for Life of Ireland worked with other groups such as Feminists Against Eugenics.\n\nFounded in response to correspondence with American founder Goltz, Feminists for Life New Zealand (1978-1983) was founded by Connie Purdue (who also founded the New Zealand National Organization for Women) and romance writer Daphne Clair de Jong, who, like their American counterparts Goltz and Callaghan, found themselves at odds with the feminist establishment's endorsement of abortion.\n\nDuring this period, de Jong authored \"Abortion and Feminism; the Great Inconsistency\" and \"The Feminist Sell-Out\" for the \"New Zealand Listener\". The articles attacked pro-choice ideology as inconsistent with feminist principles, and as a pandering to a male system devised by men, for men. However, de Jong soon drifted away from the organization, disheartened at the increasingly social conservative membership and wholesale anti-feminist agenda of the organization.\n\nFeminists for Life of New Zealand no longer exists. After 1984, it was known as \"Women for Life\". Although it began as a pro-life feminist organization, the organization gradually changed from a secular liberal organization to a Christian conservative pressure group, which reflected the increasingly socially conservative views of its late founder Connie Purdue. It then changed its name to the \"Family Education Network\", which published \"Off the Fence\" until it ceased publication in 2003.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41549911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41549911", "title": "Gesellschaft der Ärzte in Wien", "text": "Gesellschaft der Ärzte in Wien\n\nGesellschaft der Ärzte in Wien (College of Physicians in Vienna) is a medical society with a long-standing tradition in Austria. Its principal task is the continuing education of medical practitioners. The society's headquarter is the Billrothhaus in the 9th district of Vienna.\n\nThe organization's main task is the education of medics and the presentation of new scientific findings in the field of medicine. For this purpose, the Gesellschaft der Ärzte organizes scientific events, runs a library and publishes educational videos.\n\nThe organization's president is the radiologist Walter Hruby.\n\n35 years prior to the foundation of the Gesellschaft der Ärzte in Wien, young physicians met to discuss relevant scientific information. These meetings were the basis for the society's formation.\n\nThe \"Ärztevereinigung\" (physician's club) was founded in 1802 by Johann Anton Heidmann (1775–1855). Its members subscribed to medical journals then passed them on to other members. The scientific results where discussed during weekly meetings in the apartment of Dr. Heidmann and, after 1804, that of Dr. Malfatti. Other famous members of the club were Ludwig Freiherr von Türkheim, Franz Wirer and Johann Friedrich Osiander. This association published a yearly journal, the \"Gesundheitstaschenbuch\" (Health Manual). The \"Ärzteforum\" (physicians' forum) was founded in the early 1830s and had very renowned medics amongst its members, including Ignaz Rudolf Bischoff, university professor at the Josephinum in Vienna, Johann Hassinger, who later was deemed surgeon general, Heinrich Herzfelder, later the Chief Physician in the Israelite Hospital, Ludwig Wilhelm Mauthner von Mauthstein, founder of St. Anna children's hospital and the first professor of pediatrics, as well as the practicing physician Rudolph von Vivenot.\n\nFranz Wirer and Ludwig Türkheim, who both were rectors at the University, are considered \"the founding fathers\" of the organization; however, this was not possible until the privy councilor Andreas Joseph von Stifft, who was against the creation of the society, died. Their main goal by creating the Gesellschaft der Ärzte was to promote the health sciences as art and science, prior to the goals of the Ärztevereinigung. Additionally, they hoped to use it as a platform to formulate their response to the ongoing cholera epidemic.\n\nOver time, their objectives changed. In 1839, the society changed its focus to promoting drug sciences. The foundation of the Royal Academy of Sciences (\"Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften\") in 1847 also helped to promote the medical sciences. While the theoretical subjects such as physics, chemistry, anatomy and biology were discussed in the Academy and published in its journal \"Denkschrift\", the College of Physicians focused on pathology, experimental anatomy, medical chemistry and, in particular, clinical medicine. It is due to the influence of the academy and the college that the faculty of medicine broadened their limited scope beyond medical education and focused increasingly on science and research.\n\nIn 1837, the foundation of the society was finally officially approved. The charter members were of course Franz Wirer and Ludwig Turkheim, as well as Johann Malfatti, the general practitioners Gerhard Brants and Joseph von Vering, the director of the general hospital Franz Xaver Güntner, the professor of pathology and pharmacy Leopold Franz Hermann, the climatologist Rudolph von Vivenot, the president of the faculty Johann Nepomuk von Raimann and the professors of the Josephinic Academy Friedrich Jäger von Jaxtthal and Ignaz Rudolf Bischoff.\n\nThe first president was Johann Malfatti, who was succeeded by Franz Wirer in 1841. The number of members was at first regulated to a maximum of 40 but raised over time (100 members in 1839, 200 members in 1859).\n\nOne of the goals of the society was to establish and nurture a library. Today, it has one of the largest private medical-scientific book collections in the world. The first librarian of the yet-to-be-built library, circa 1840, was the district physician Hermann Hieronymus Beer. The first significant contribution was made by the second president of the society, Franz Wirer, who bequeathed his private book collection to the Gesellschaft der Ärzte after his death.\n\nAll the scientific meetings of the society where documented and published in \"Zeitschrift der k.k. Gesellschaft der Ärzte\" and later in \"Wiener klinische Wochenschrift\".\n\nUnder the presidency of Franz Wirer, the members were divided into four sections: pharmacology, pathology, hygiene and therapy. The members were free to choose their affiliation. This compartmentalization led to an increased number of meetings, as many as 45 per year. After the disbanding of the sections, the frequency decreased to 25 to 35 meetings per year.\n\nAfter Carl Rokitansky was elected president of the society, in 1850, the association focused increasingly on the natural sciences, leading to a new direction for medicine and to the dawning the new era of the Second Medical School (Zweite Wiener Medizinische Schule). The transition towards education is strictly linked to Carl Rokitansky, Joseph Skoda and Ferdindand Hebra. It marks the elevated status of medicine from the philosophic era to one in which scientific discoveries and clinical manifestations were correlated to pathological findings.\n\nDuring World War I, the frequency of scientific meetings decreased due to difficulties, and addressed mainly plagues, diseases and injuries caused by the war.\n\nUnder the National Socialist Regime a law was pushed through in 1938 which stated that any organization had to be led by national socialists. This law marked the abolition of the Gesellschaft der Ärzte. The commissarial conductor of this time was a member of the NSDAP, Adolf Irtl. A few weeks later, the \"Wiener Medizinische Gesellschaft\" (Viennese Medical Society) was founded, and Otto Planner-Plan was appointed as chairman. It basically assumed all tasks from the College of Physicians, but, due to the war, meetings were rare.\n\nThe end of World War II was equivalent to the abolition of the Wiener Medizinische Gesellschaft. Leopold Arzt, the chairman of the university's dermatology clinic, began to rebuild the Gesellschaft der Ärzte. Some of the property of the organization was lost during the war. The library had been moved to a barn in the very north of Austria to protect it from air raids. However, it was under threat from humidity and theft. The Billrothhaus also suffered damage from the war. Thanks to the members funds for both the repairs and the library retrieval were amassed.\n\nThe society was re-established and officially approved in April 1946. Wolfgang Denk was elected president. Springer publishing took over the publication of the \"Wiener klinische Wochenschrift\", which had been discontinued in 1945.\n\nKarl Hermann Spitzy, who gained international renown for his work with penicillin, was president from 1982 to 1991. Franz Kainberger, who is leading the organization today, assumed the presidency after Karl Heinz Tragl, who served from 2007 to 2011.\n\nThe most important function of the College of Physicians is the organization of lectures and discussion forums which showcase important health topics and new scientific findings. In the immediate post-war years, the College focused on infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, typhus, pest, pox, erysipelas, rabies but more than anything else, the cholera epidemic. Some of the members' important discoveries even made their way into hospital routine. Karl Eduard Hammerschmidt presented a sphygmometer in 1843, an innovative device to analyze the heartbeat and the arterial pulse. The section of pharmacology contributed to the creation of an Apothecaries Act for the Kaiserstaat Austria, to prevent materialists and spice merchants from selling drugs.\n\nMany lectures dealt with childbed fever which was dreaded due to its high mortality rate. Johann Klein played an important role in these discussions. The medical students under his supervision used to visit the obstetrics ward directly after leaving the autopsy site, without washing their hands. Klein had several arguments with Ignaz Semmelweis, who attributed childbed fever to this behavior. In 1845 and 1848 the society's journal \"Zeitschrift der k.k. Gesellschaft der Ärzte\" published articles which encouraged all physicians to follow Semmelweis' recommendations. In 1850 Ignaz Semmelweis gave a lecture and reported his findings to the society's members.\n\nTo handle increasing demand of water in Vienna, the College of Physicians initiated the \"Drei-Quellen-Projekt\" (Three Springs Project), which made it possible to access water from surrounding springs. The project was officially introduced by Emperor Franz Joseph I in 1873. As the percent of Vienna's population with clean water rose, there was a drastic decline in cholera cases.\n\nIn addition to infectious diseases, the post-WW II society focused on the progress in antibiotics, radiotherapy, surgery and cortisone for the treatment of rheumatic diseases.\n\nSince 2000, the lectures have also addressed the study of medicine in Austria because the educational system came under fire.\n\nFollowing a discussion about quackery, the medical profession was forced to become more rigorous in clinical practice. The College of Physicians is responsible for two prominent therapeutic progresses: one is the application of electric current in therapeutic measures, the other is the establishment of a laboratory for chemical analysis in the Vienna General Hospital. This laboratory opened the gate to a large number of scientific discoveries, such as the pathomechanism of diabetes. Florian Heller presented a reagent to measure the sugar level in urine, which was subsequently adopted into hospital routine. By 1874, the laboratory had become a state-of-the-art chemical analysis unit, and after 1889, through the influence of Ernst Freud, advanced further, becoming an innovative research institute which developed techniques pertaining to blood coagulation, cell membranes, gastric autodigestion, the effect of insulin and other biologic processes.\n\nDuring this time, significant progress was also made in the areas of microbiology and surgery. Carl Koller discovered the anesthetic effect of cocaine and Ludwig Türck, who later became the first tenured professor of laryngology, invented a laryngoscope and marked the birth of endoscopy. This first endoscope was continuously refined, and in 1879, the Nietze-Leiter-cystoscope, which is used to examine the urinary bladder, was presented in a meeting of the College of Physicians. Further modifications made the first esophago- and gastroscopy, by Carl Stoerk and Joseph Leiter, possible. Subsequently, Johann von Mikulicz perfected the device. using it to make the first endoscopic diagnosis of gastric cancer.\n\nAnother project initiated by the college was the foundation of a hospital in Mariahilf - Vienna's sixth district. Although the construction was approved and initiated, it was halted by World War I.\n\nRobert Koch discovered the tuberculosis pathogen, which led to enormous progress in the battle against this disease. The College of Physicians established a committee for prevention and therapy of tuberculosis and finally published a report with four crucial points: informing the population, reducing exposure to pathogens by improving equipment hygiene, preventing infection, establishing diagnostic and treatment methods through bacteriological tests, by isolating people exposed to tuberculosis, and providing work.\n\nIn 1896, Wilhelm Conrad Röntgen wrote a letter to Franz Exner and informed him of his finding - the X-ray. This led to intensive research in this field. A few days later (even before Röntgen had a chance to present his findings in Würzburg), the College of Physicians presented the first radiograph of a shotgun injury. The first radiologic atlas was published by Josef Maria Eder and Eduard Valenta in February 1896. Even the first angiogram was produced in Vienna by Eduard Haschek and the idea to use X-rays in radiotherapy came from Leopold Freund, who very successfully treated a naevus with it.\n\nIn 1901, the journal “Wiener klinische Wochenschrift” published an article by Karl Landsteiner entitled “Über Agglutinationserscheinungen normalen menschlichen Blutes”, which is seen as the foundation of grouping; this changed the picture in medicine completely. For the discovery of the AB0 blood group system, Landsteiner received the nobel prize in 1939.\n\nThe meetings of the society initially took place in the consistory room at the old university. At this point it was not possible to establish a much needed library. Due to the growing audience, the society moved to the 4th floor of the Domkapitel at Stephansplatz in 1841, where a library and a reading room could be built. the group relocated many times again until 1855, when the government provided a gratis flat for them at Teinfaltstraße; this was the soviety's headquarter for the next forty years. The last relocation occurred on July 23, 1893, into a new building, Frankgasse 8, named after Theodor Billroth. Today, the Billrothhaus remains the headquarter of the College of Physicians, also housing the society's library.\n\nThe library was one of the primary goals of the association. Since its foundation, the collection has grown, through donations and swaps, as well as contributions by members. Today, the Billrothhaus library is one of the most precious book collections worldwide.\n\nhe College of Physicians awards persons who render outstanding services to medicine.\n\nThis prize is awarded biannually in appreciation of the physiologist Wilhelm Auerswald for the best thesis from an Austrian medical faculty.\n\nIn honor of Otto Kraupp, this prize was established in 1999. It is awarded annually to the graduate with the best medical dissertation in an Austrian University.\n\nThe society awards the Theodor-Billroth Medal for outstanding services to medicine, science or the College of Physicians.\n\nPast award winners:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "350679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350679", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Africa", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Africa\n\nHIV/AIDS is a major public health concern and cause of death in many parts of Africa. Although the continent is home to about 15.2 percent of the world's population, more than two-thirds of the total infected worldwide – some 35 million people – were Africans, of whom 15 million have already died. Sub-Saharan Africa alone accounted for an estimated 69 percent of all people living with HIV and 70 percent of all AIDS deaths in 2011. In the countries of sub-Saharan Africa most affected, AIDS has raised death rates and lowered life expectancy among adults between the ages of 20 and 49 by about twenty years. Furthermore, the life expectancy in many parts of Africa is declining, largely as a result of the HIV/AIDS epidemic with life-expectancy in some countries reaching as low as thirty-four years.\n\nCountries in North Africa and the Horn of Africa have significantly lower prevalence rates, as their populations typically engage in fewer high-risk cultural patterns that have been implicated in the virus' spread in Sub-Saharan Africa. Southern Africa is the worst affected region on the continent. As of 2011, HIV has infected at least 10 percent of the population in Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Eswatini, Zambia, and Zimbabwe.\n\nIn response, a number of initiatives have been launched in various parts of the continent to educate the public on HIV/AIDS. Among these are combination prevention programmes, considered to be the most effective initiative, such as the abstinence, be faithful, use a condom campaign and the Desmond Tutu HIV Foundation's outreach programs.\n\nAccording to a 2013 special report issued by the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the number of HIV positive people in Africa receiving anti-retroviral treatment in 2012 was over seven times the number receiving treatment in 2005, \"with nearly 1 million added in the last year alone\". The number of AIDS-related deaths in Sub-Saharan Africa in 2011 was 33 percent less than the number in 2005. The number of new HIV infections in Sub-Saharan Africa in 2011 was 25 percent less than the number in 2001.\n\nIn an article entitled \"The Impact of HIV & AIDS in Africa\", the charitable organization AVERT wrote:\n\nThe earliest known cases of human HIV infection have been linked to western equatorial Africa, probably in southeast Cameroon where groups of the central common chimpanzee live. \"Phylogenetic analyses ... revealed that all HIV-1 strains known to infect humans, including HIV-1 groups M, N, and O, were closely related to just one of these SIVcpz lineages: that found in P. t. troglodytes [Pan troglodytes troglodytes i.e. the central chimpanzee].\" The disease is associated with the preparation for human consumption of flesh from freshly killed chimpanzees.\n\nCurrent hypotheses also include that, once the virus jumped from chimpanzees or other apes to humans, the colonial medical practices of the 20th century helped HIV become established in human populations by 1930. The virus likely moved from primates to humans when hunters came into contact with the blood of infected primates. The hunters then became infected with HIV and passed on the disease to other humans through bodily fluid contamination. This theory is known as the \"Bushmeat theory\".\n\nHIV made the leap from rural isolation to rapid urban transmission as a result of urbanization that occurred during the 20th century. There are many reasons for which there is such prevalence of AIDS in Africa. One of the most formative explanations is the poverty that dramatically impacts the daily lives of Africans. The book, Ethics and AIDS in Africa: A Challenge to Our Thinking, describes how \"Poverty has accompanying side-effects, such as prostitution (i.e. the need to sell sex for survival), poor living conditions, education, health and health care, that are major contributing factors to the current spread of HIV/AIDS.\"\n\nResearchers believe HIV was gradually spread by river travel. All the rivers in Cameroon run into the Sangha River, which joins the Congo River running past Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Trade along the rivers could have spread the virus, which built up slowly in the human population. By the 1960s, about 2,000 people in Africa may have had HIV, including people in Kinshasa whose tissue samples from 1959 and 1960 have been preserved and studied retrospectively. The first epidemic of HIV/AIDS is believed to have occurred in Kinshasa in the 1970s, signalled by a surge in opportunistic infections such as cryptococcal meningitis, Kaposi's sarcoma, tuberculosis, and pneumonia.\n\nAcquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a fatal disease caused by the slow-acting human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The virus multiplies in the body until it causes immune system damage, leading to diseases of the AIDS syndrome. HIV emerged in Africa in the 1960s and traveled to the United States and Europe the following decade. In the 1980s it spread silently across the globe until it became a pandemic, or widespread. Some areas of the world were already significantly impacted by AIDS, while in others the epidemic was just beginning. The virus is transmitted by bodily fluid contact including the exchange of sexual fluids, by blood, from mother to child in the womb, and during delivery or breastfeeding. AIDS first was identified in the United States and France in 1981, principally among homosexual men. Then in 1982 and 1983, heterosexual Africans also were diagnosed.\n\nIn the late 1980s, international development agencies regarded AIDS control as a technical medical problem rather than one involving all areas of economic and social life. Because public health authorities perceived AIDS to be an urban phenomenon associated with prostitution, they believed that the majority of Africans who lived in \"traditional\" rural areas would be spared. They believed that the heterosexual epidemic could be contained by focusing prevention efforts on persuading the so-called core transmitters—people such as sex workers and truck drivers, known to have multiple sex partners—to use condoms. These factors retarded prevention campaigns in many countries for more than a decade.\n\nAlthough many governments in Sub-Saharan Africa denied that there was a problem for years, they have now begun to work toward solutions.\n\nAIDS was at first considered a disease of gay men and drug addicts, but in Africa it took off among the general population. As a result, those involved in the fight against HIV began to emphasize aspects such as preventing transmission from mother to child, or the relationship between HIV and poverty, inequality of the sexes, and so on, rather than emphasizing the need to prevent transmission by unsafe sexual practices or drug injection. This change in emphasis resulted in more funding, but was not effective in preventing a drastic rise in HIV prevalence.\n\nThe global response to HIV and AIDS has improved considerably in recent years. Funding comes from many sources, the largest of which are the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief.\n\nAccording to the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS), the number of HIV positive people in Africa receiving anti-retroviral treatment rose from 1 million to 7.1 million between 2005 and 2012, an 805% increase. Almost 1 million of those patients were treated in 2012. The number of HIV positive people in South Africa who received such treatment in 2011 was 75.2 percent higher than the number in 2009.\n\nAdditionally, the number of AIDS-related deaths in 2011 in both Africa as a whole and Sub-Saharan Africa alone was 32 percent less than the number in 2005. The number of new HIV infections in Africa in 2011 was also 33 percent less than the number in 2001, with a \"24% reduction in new infections among children from 2009 to 2011\". In Sub-Saharan Africa, new HIV positive cases over the same period declined by 25%. According to UNAIDS, these successes have resulted from \"strong leadership and shared responsibility in Africa and among the global community\".\n\nNumerous public education initiatives have been launched to curb the spread of HIV in Africa.\n\nHIV and AIDS has attracted a stigmatization that is overwhelming. This is due to many factors such as a lack of understanding of the disease, lack of access to treatment, the media, knowing that AIDS is incurable, and prejudices brought on by a cultures beliefs. \"When HIV/AIDS became a global disease, African leaders played ostrich and said that it was a gay disease found only in the West and Africans did not have to worry because there were no gays and lesbians in Africa\". Africans were blind to the already huge epidemic that was infesting their communities. The belief that only homosexuals could contract the diseases was later debunked as the number of heterosexual couples living with HIV increased. Unfortunately there were other rumors being spread by elders in Cameroon. These \"elders speculated that HIV/AIDS was a sexually transmitted disease passed on from Fulani women only to non-Fulani men who had sexual contact with them. They also claimed if a man was infected as a result of having sexual contact with a Fulani woman, only a Fulani healer could treat him\". This communal belief is shared by many other African cultures who believe that HIV and AIDS originated from women. Because of this belief that men can only get HIV from women many \"women are not free to speak of their HIV status to their partners for fear of violence\". In general HIV carries a negative stigma in Sub-Saharan Africa. Unfortunately This stigma makes it very challenging for Sub-Saharan Africans to share that they have HIV because they are afraid of being an outcast from their friends and family. In every Sub-Saharan community HIV is seen as the bringer of death. The common belief is that once you have HIV you are destined to die. People seclude themselves based on these beliefs. They don't tell their family and live with guilt and fear because of HIV. However, there is a way to treat HIV and AIDs the problem is that many are just not aware of how HIV is spread or what effects it has on the body. \"80.8% of participants would not sleep in the same room as someone who was HIV positive, while 94.5% would not talk to someone who was HIV positive\".\n\nSocial stigma plays a significant role in the state of HIV and AIDS infection in Africa. \"In a normatively HIV/AIDS-stigmatizing Sub Saharan African communities, this suspicion of one's status by others is also applicable to individuals who are not HIV positive, but who may wish to utilize healthcare services for preventative purposes. This group of individuals under fear of suspicion may avoid being mistakingly identified as stigmatized by simply avoiding HARHS utilization.\" (151)\n\n\"At the individual level, persons living with HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa likely want to conceal their stigmatized identities whenever possible in order to gain these rewards associated with having a 'normal' identity. The rewards of being considered normal' in the context of high-HIV-prevalence Sub-Saharan Africa are varied and great... such rewards for which there is empirical support in this context include perceived sexual freedom, avoidance of discrimination, avoidance of community or family rejection, avoidance of losing one's job or residence, and avoidance of losing one's sexual partners. Other potential rewards of being considered normal include avoidance of being associated with promiscuity or prostitution, avoidance of emotional, social and physical isolation and avoidance of being blamed for others' illness\" (150).\n\nThe Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS defines combination prevention programmes as:\nrights-based, evidence-informed, and community-owned programmes that use a mix of biomedical, behavioural, and structural interventions, prioritised to meet the current HIV prevention needs of particular individuals and communities, so as to have the greatest sustained impact on reducing new infections. Well-designed ... programmes are carefully tailored to national and local needs and conditions; focus resources on the mix of programmatic and policy actions required to address both immediate risks and underlying vulnerability; and ... are thoughtfully planned and managed to operate synergistically and consistently on multiple levels (e.g. individual, relationship, community, society) and over an adequate period of time. ... Using different prevention strategies in combination is not a new idea. ... [C]ombination approaches have been used effectively to generate sharp, sustained reductions in new HIV infections in diverse settings. Combination prevention reflects common sense, yet it is striking how seldom the approach has been put into practice. ... Prevention efforts to date have overwhelmingly focused on reducing individual risk, with fewer efforts made to address societal factors that increase vulnerability to HIV. ... UNAIDS' combination prevention framework puts structural interventions—including programmes to promote human rights, to remove punitive laws that block the AIDS response, and to combat gender inequality and HIV related stigma and discrimination—at the centre of the HIV prevention agenda.\n\n\"It is the consensus in the HIV scientific community that abstinence, be faithful, use a condom [(ABC)] principles are vital guides for public health intervention, but are better bundled with biomedical prevention approaches; lone behavioral change approaches are not likely to stop the global pandemic.\" Uganda has replaced its ABC strategy with a combination prevention programme because of an increase in the annual HIV infection rate. Most new infections were coming from people in long-term relationships who had multiple sexual partners.\n\nThe abstinence, be faithful, use a condom (ABC) strategy to prevent HIV infection promotes safer sexual behavior and emphasizes the need for fidelity, fewer sexual partners, and a later age of sexual debut. The implementation of ABC differs among those who use it. For example, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief has focused more on abstinence and fidelity than condoms while Uganda has had a more balanced approach to the three elements.\n\nThe effectiveness of ABC is controversial. At the 16th International AIDS Conference in 2006, African countries gave the strategy mixed reviews. In Botswana,\n[M]uch of the ABC message was getting through, but ... it was not making much of a difference. ... A program called Total Community Mobilization sent 450 AIDS counselors door-to-door, giving prevention advice, urging HIV testing and referring infected people to treatment. ... People who had talked to the counselors were twice as likely to mention abstinence and three times as likely to mention condom use when asked to describe ways to avoid infection. However, they were no more likely than the uncounseled to mention being faithful as a good strategy. The people who had been counseled were also twice as likely to have been tested for HIV in the previous year, and to have discussed that possibility with a sex partner. However, they were just as likely to have a partner outside marriage as the people who had not gotten a visit from a counselor, and they were no more likely to be using a condom in those liaisons.\n\nIn Nigeria,\nThere was a somewhat different result in a study of young Nigerians, ages 15 to 24, most unmarried, living in the city and working in semiskilled jobs. People in specific neighborhoods were counseled with an ABC message as part of a seven-year project funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development and its British counterpart. ... The uncounseled group showed no increase in condom use—it stayed about 55 percent. In the counseled group, however, condom use by women in their last nonmarital sexual encounter rose from 54 percent to 69 percent. For men, it rose from 64 percent to 75 percent. Stigmatizing attitudes appeared to be less common among the counseled group. ... But ... \"We did not see a reduction in the number of partners,\" said Godpower Omoregie, the researcher from Abuja who presented the findings.\n\nIn Kenya,\nA survey of 1,400 Kenyan teenagers found a fair amount of confusion about ABC's messages. ... Half of the teenagers could correctly define abstinence and explain why it was important. Only 23 percent could explain what being faithful meant and why it was important. Some thought it meant being honest, and some thought it meant having faith in the fidelity of one's partner. Only 13 percent could correctly explain the importance of a condom in preventing HIV infection. About half spontaneously offered negative opinions about condoms, saying they were unreliable, immoral and, in some cases, were designed to let HIV be transmitted.\n\nEswatini in 2010 announced that it was abandoning the ABC strategy because it was a dismal failure in preventing the spread of HIV. \"If you look at the increase of HIV in the country while we've been applying the ABC concept all these years, then it is evident that ABC is not the answer,\" said Dr. Derek von Wissell, Director of the National Emergency Response Council on HIV/AIDS.\n\nOne of the greatest problems faced by African countries that have high prevalence rates is \"HIV fatigue\". Africans are not interested in hearing more about a disease that they already have heard about constantly. To address this, novel approaches are required.\n\nIn 1999, the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation provided major funding for the loveLife website, an online sexual health and relationship resource for teenagers.\n\nIn 2011, the Botswana Ministry of Education introduced new HIV/AIDS educational technology in local schools. The TeachAIDS prevention software, developed at Stanford University, was distributed to every primary, secondary, and tertiary educational institution in the country, reaching all learners from 6 to 24 years of age nationwide.\n\nDuring the Abuja African Union Summit on HIV/AIDS in April 2001, the heads of state and heads of government of Botswana, Ethiopia, Kenya, Mali, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, and Uganda established the AIDS Watch Africa (AWA) advocacy platform. The initiative was formed to \"accelerate efforts by Heads of State and Government to implement their commitments for the fight against HIV/AIDS, and to mobilize the required national and international resources.\" In January 2012, AWA was revitalized to include all of Africa and its objectives were broadened to include malaria and tuberculosis.\n\nIn 2012, the African Union adopted a \"Roadmap on Shared Responsibility and Global Solidarity for AIDS, TB and Malaria Response in Africa\".\nThis Roadmap presents a set of practical African-sourced solutions for enhancing shared responsibility and global solidarity for AIDS ... responses in Africa on a sustainable basis by 2015. The solutions are organized around three strategic pillars: diversified financing; access to medicines; and enhanced health governance. The Roadmap defines goals, results and roles and responsibilities to hold stakeholders accountable for the realization of these solutions between 2012 and 2015.\n\nThe Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS reported that the following sixteen African nations in 2012 \"ensure[d] that more than three-quarters of pregnant women living with HIV receive antiretroviral medicine to prevent transmission to their child\": Botswana, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Rwanda, São Tomé and Principe, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Eswatini, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe.\n\nHigh-risk behavioral patterns have been cited as being largely responsible for the significantly greater spread of HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa than in other parts of the world. Chief among these are the traditionally liberal attitudes espoused by many communities inhabiting the subcontinent toward multiple sexual partners and pre-marital and outside marriage sexual activity. HIV transmission is most likely in the first few weeks after infection, and is therefore increased when people have more than one sexual partner in the same time period. In most of the developed world outside Africa, this means HIV transmission is high among prostitutes and other people who may have more than one sexual partner concurrently. Within the cultures of sub-Saharan Africa, it is relatively common for both men and women to be carrying on sexual relations with more than one person, which promotes HIV transmission. This practice is known as concurrency, which Helen Epstein describes in her book, \"The Invisible Cure: Africa, the West, and the Fight against AIDS\", in which her research into the sexual mores of Uganda revealed the high frequency with which men and women engage in concurrent sexual relationships. In addition, in sub-Saharan Africa AIDS is the leading killer and a large reason for the high transmission rates is because of the lack of education provided to youth. When infected, most children die within one year because of the lack of treatment. The entire population in Sub-Saharan Africa is being infected with HIV, from men to women, and from pregnant woman to children. Rather than having more of a specific group infected, male or female, the ratio of men and women infected with HIV are quite similar. With the HIV infection, 77% of men, women, and children, develop AIDS, and die in Sub-Saharan Africa. Of those deaths, “more than 90% of AIDS orphans and children [were] infected with HIV.\n\nLack of money is an obvious challenge, although a great deal of aid is distributed throughout developing countries with high HIV/AIDS rates. For African countries with advanced medical facilities, patents on many drugs have hindered the ability to make low cost alternatives.\n\nNatural disasters and conflict are also major challenges, as the resulting economic problems people face can drive many young women and girls into patterns of sex work in order to ensure their livelihood or that of their family, or else to obtain safe passage, food, shelter or other resources. Emergencies can also lead to greater exposure to HIV infection through new patterns of sex work. In Mozambique, an influx of humanitarian workers and transporters, such as truck drivers, attracted sex workers from outside the area. Similarly, in the Turkana District of northern Kenya, drought led to a decrease in clients for local sex workers, prompting the sex workers to relax their condom use demands and search for new truck driver clients on main highways and in peri-urban settlements.\n\nSub-Saharan \"Africans have always appreciated the importance of health care because good health is seen as necessary for the continuation and growth of their lineage\". Without proper health the culture will not be able to thrive and grow. Unfortunately, \"health services in many countries are swamped by the need to care for increasing numbers of infected and sick people. Ameliorative drugs are too expensive for most victims, except for a very small number who are affluent\". The greatest number of sick people with the least number of doctors, Sub-Saharan Africa \"has 11 percent of the world's population but carries 24 percent of the global disease burden. With less than 1 percent of global health expenditure and only 3 percent of the world's health workers\".\nWhen family members get sick with HIV or other sicknesses, family members often end up selling most of their belongings in order to provide health care for the individual. Medical facilities in many African countries are lacking. Many health care workers are also not available, in part due to lack of training by governments and in part due to the wooing of these workers by foreign medical organisations where there is a need for medical professionals. Unfortunately, many individuals who get a medical degree end up leaving Sub-Saharan Africa to work abroad \"either to escape instability or to practice where they have better working conditions and a higher salary\". Many low income communities are very far away from a hospital and they cannot afford to bus there or pay for medical attention once they arrive. \"Healthcare in Africa differs widely, depending on the country and also the region – those living in urban areas are more likely to receive better healthcare services than those in rural or remote regions\". It is very common to just wait out a sickness or seek help from a neighbor or relative. Currently antiretroviral therapy is the closest to a cure. However, many hospitals lack enough antiretroviral drugs to treat everyone. This may be because most Sub-Saharan African countries invest \"as little as 1-4 dollars per capita, [so] overseas aid is a major source of funding for healthcare\". Many overseas organizations are very hesitant to give antiretroviral drugs to Sub-Saharan Africa because they are expensive, which means that there is only so much they can give. Relying on other countries for help in general requires more paperwork and faith in another country very far away. Also, delivery of drugs and other aid takes many month and years to arrive in the hands of those that need help.\n\nAccording to a 2007 report, male and female circumcision were statistically associated with an increased incidence of HIV infection among the females in Kenya and the males in Kenya, Lesotho, and Tanzania who self-reported that they both underwent the procedure and were virgins. \"Among adolescents, regardless of sexual experience,\ncircumcision was just as strongly associated with prevalent HIV infection.\" Circumcised adults, however, were statistically less likely to be HIV positive than their uncircumcised counterparts, especially among older age groups.\n\nSimilarly, a randomized, controlled intervention trial in South Africa from 2005 found that male circumcision \"provides a degree of protection against acquiring HIV infection [by males], equivalent to what a vaccine of high efficacy would have achieved\".\n\nThere are high levels of medical suspicion throughout Africa, and there is evidence that such distrust may have a significant impact on the use of medical services. The distrust of modern medicine is sometimes linked to theories of a \"Western Plot\" of mass sterilization or population reduction, perhaps a consequence of several high-profile incidents involving western medical practitioners.\n\nAfrican countries are also still fighting against what they perceive as unfair practices in the international pharmaceutical industry. Medical experimentation occurs in Africa on many medications, but once approved, access to the drug is difficult. Drug companies must make a return on the money they invest on research and work to obtain patents on their intellectual capital investments which restrict generic alternatives production. Patents on medications have prevented access to medications as well as the growth in research for more affordable alternatives. These pharmaceuticals insist that drugs should be purchased through them.\n\nSouth African scientists in a combined effort with American scientists from Gilead Sciences recently tested and found effective a tenofivir-based anti-retroviral vaginal gel that could be used as pre-exposure prophylaxis. Testing of this gel was conducted at the University of KwaZulu-Natal in Durban, South Africa. The South African government has indicated its willingness to make it widely available. The FDA in the US is in the process of reviewing the drug for approval for US use. The AIDS/HIV epidemic has led to the rise in unethical medical experimentation in Africa.\n\nSince the epidemic is widespread, African governments sometimes relax their laws in order to get research conducted in their countries which they would otherwise not afford. However, global organizations such as the Clinton Foundation, are working to reduce the cost of HIV/AIDS medications in Africa and elsewhere. For example, the philanthropist Inder Singh oversaw a program which reduced the cost of pediatric HIV/AIDS drugs by between 80 and 92 percent by working with manufacturers to reduce production and distribution costs. Manufacturers often cite distribution and production difficulties in developing markets, which create a substantial barrier to entry.\n\nMajor African political leaders have denied the link between HIV and AIDS, favoring alternate theories. The scientific community considers the evidence that HIV causes AIDS to be conclusive and rejects AIDS-denialist claims as pseudoscience based on conspiracy theories, faulty reasoning, cherry picking, and misrepresentation of mainly outdated scientific data. Despite its lack of scientific acceptance, AIDS denialism has had a significant political impact, especially in South Africa under the former presidency of Thabo Mbeki.\n\nIn Africa, subtype C of HIV-1 is very common, whereas it is rare in America or Europe. People with subtype C progress to AIDS faster than those with subtype A, the predominant subtype in America and Europe (see HIV disease progression rates#HIV subtype variation and effect on progression rates).\n\nPressure from some religious leaders has resulted in the banning of a number of safe-sex campaigns, including condom promoting advertisements being banned in Kenya.\n\nMany people living with HIV in low and middle income countries who need antiretroviral therapy are unable to access or remain in care. This is often because of the time and cost required to travel to health centres as well as an inadequate number of trained staff such as medical doctors and specialists to provide treatment. One approach to improve access to HIV care is to provide antiretroviral therapy close to people’s homes. A systematic review found that when antiretroviral treatment was initiated at the hospital but followed up at a health centre closer to home, fewer patients died or were lost to follow up. The research also did not detect a difference in the numbers of patients who died or were lost to follow up when they received maintenance treatment in the community rather than in a health centre or hospital.\n\nPrevalence measures include everyone living with HIV and AIDS, and present a delayed representation of the epidemic by aggregating the HIV infections of many years. Incidence, in contrast, measures the number of new infections, usually over the previous year. There is no practical, reliable way to assess incidence in Sub-Saharan Africa. Prevalence in 15- to 24-year-old pregnant women attending antenatal clinics is sometimes used as an approximation. The test done to measure prevalence is a serosurvey in which blood is tested for the presence of HIV.\n\nHealth units that conduct serosurveys rarely operate in remote rural communities, and the data collected also does not measure people who seek alternate healthcare. Extrapolating national data from antenatal surveys relies on assumptions which may not hold across all regions and at different stages in an epidemic.\n\nRecent national population or household-based surveys collecting data from both sexes, pregnant and non-pregnant women, and rural and urban areas, have adjusted the recorded national prevalence levels for several countries in Africa and elsewhere. These, too, are not perfect: people may not participate in household surveys because they fear they may be HIV positive and do not want to know their test results. Household surveys also exclude migrant labourers, who are a high risk group.\n\nThus, there may be significant disparities between official figures and actual HIV prevalence in some countries.\n\nA minority of scientists claim that as many as 40 percent of HIV infections in African adults may be caused by unsafe medical practices rather than by sexual activity. The World Health Organization states that about 2.5 percent of HIV infections in Sub-Saharan Africa are caused by unsafe medical injection practices and the \"overwhelming majority\" by unprotected sex.\n\nIn contrast to areas in North Africa and the Horn of Africa, traditional cultures and religions in much of Sub-Saharan Africa have generally exhibited a more liberal attitude vis-a-vis female out-of-marriage sexual activity. The latter includes practices such as multiple sexual partners and unprotected sex, high-risk cultural patterns that have been implicated in the much greater spread of HIV in the subcontinent.\n\nUniquely among countries in this region, Morocco's HIV prevalence rate has increased from less than 0.1 percent in 2001 to 0.2 percent in 2011.\n\nAs with North Africa, the HIV infection rates in the Horn of Africa are generally quite low. This has been attributed to the Muslim nature of many of the local communities and adherence to Islamic morals.\n\nEthiopia's HIV prevalence rate has decreased from 3.6 percent in 2001 to 1.4 percent in 2011. The number of new infections per year also has decreased from 130,000 in 2001 to 24,000 in 2011.\n\nHIV infection rates in central Africa are generally moderate to high.\n\nHIV infection rates in eastern Africa are generally moderate to high.\n\nKenya, according to a 2008 report from the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS, had the third largest number of individuals in Sub-Saharan Africa living with HIV. It also had the highest prevalence rate of any country outside of Southern Africa. Kenya's HIV infection rate dropped from around 14 percent in the mid-1990s to 5 percent in 2006, but rose again to 6.2 percent by 2011. The number of newly infected people per year, however, decreased by almost 30 percent, from 140,000 in 2001 to 100,000 in 2011.\n\nAs of 2012, Nyanza Province had the highest HIV prevalence rate at 13.9 percent, with the North Eastern Province having the lowest rate at 0.9 percent.\n\nChristian men and women also had a higher infection rate than their Muslim counterparts. This discrepancy was especially marked among women, with Muslim women showing a rate of 2.8 percent versus 8.4 percent among Protestant women and 8 percent among Catholic women. HIV was also more common among the wealthiest than among the poorest (7.2 percent versus 4.6 percent).\n\nHistorically, HIV had been more prevalent in urban than rural areas, although the gap is closing rapidly. Men in rural areas are now more likely to be HIV-infected (at 4.5 percent) than those in urban areas (at 3.7 percent).\n\nBetween 2004 and 2008, the HIV incidence rate in Tanzania for ages 15–44 slowed to 3.37 per 1,000 person-years (4.42 for women and 2.36 for men). The number of newly infected people per year increased slightly, from 140,000 in 2001 to 150,000 in 2011. There were also significantly fewer HIV infections in Zanzibar, which in 2011 had a prevalence rate of 1.0 percent compared to 5.3 percent in mainland Tanzania.\n\nUganda has registered a gradual decrease in its HIV rates from 10.6 percent in 1997, to a stabilized 6.5-7.2 percent since 2001. This has been attributed to changing local behavioral patterns, with more respondents reporting greater use of contraceptives and a two-year delay in first sexual activity as well as fewer people reporting casual sexual encounters and multiple partners.\n\nThe number of newly infected people per year, however, has increased by over 50 percent, from 99,000 in 2001 to 150,000 in 2011. More than 40 percent of new infections are among married couples, indicating widespread and increasing infidelity. This increase has caused alarm. The director of the Centre for Disease Control – Uganda, Wuhib Tadesse, said in 2011 that,\nfor every person started on antiretroviral therapy, there are three new HIV infections[,] and this is unsustainable. We are ... very concerned. ... [C]omplacence could be part of the problem. Young people nowadays no longer see people dying; they see people on ARVs but getting children. We need to re-examine our strategies... Leaders at all levels are spending ... [more] time in workshops than in the communities to sensitive the people[,] and this must stop.\"\n\nWestern Africa has generally moderate levels of infection of both HIV-1 and HIV-2. The onset of the HIV epidemic in the region began in 1985 with reported cases in Benin, Mali, and Nigeria. These were followed in 1986 by Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, Liberia, and Senegal. The epidemic began in Niger, Sierra Leone, and Togo in 1987; in The Gambia, Guinea, and Guinea-Bissau in 1989; and in Cape Verde in 1990.\n\nHIV prevalence in western Africa is lowest in Senegal and highest in Nigeria, which has the second largest number of people living with HIV in Africa after South Africa. Nigeria's infection rate (number of patients relative to the entire population), however, is much lower (3.7 percent) compared to South Africa's (17.3 percent).\n\nThe main driver of infection in the region is commercial sex. In the Ghanaian capital of Accra, for example, 80 percent of HIV infections in young men had been acquired from women who sell sex. In Niger in 2011, the national HIV prevalence rate for ages 15–49 was 0.8 percent while for sex workers it was 36 percent.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, HIV and AIDS were virtually unheard of in southern Africa. However, it is now the worst-affected region in the world. Currently, Eswatini and Lesotho have the highest and second highest HIV prevalence rates in the world, respectively. Of the nine southern African countries (Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Eswatini, Zambia, and Zimbabwe), four are estimated to have an infection rate of over 15 percent.\n\nIn Botswana, the number of newly infected people per year has declined by 67 percent, from 27,000 in 2001 to 9,000 in 2011. In Malawi, the decrease has been 54 percent, from 100,000 in 2001 to 46,000 in 2011. All but two of the other countries in this region have also recorded major decreases (Namibia, 62 percent; Zambia, 54 percent; Zimbabwe, 47 percent; South Africa, 38 percent; Eswatini, 32 percent). The number has remained virtually the same in Lesotho and Mozambique.\n\nZimbabwe's first reported case of HIV was in 1985.\n\nAside from polygynous relationships, which can be quite prevalent in parts of Africa, there are also widespread practices of sexual networking that involve multiple overlapping or concurrent sexual partners. Men's sexual networks, in particular, tend to be quite extensive, a fact that is tacitly accepted or even encouraged by many communities. Along with having multiple sexual partners, unemployment and population displacements resulting from drought and conflict have contributed to the spread of HIV/AIDS.. According to Susser and Stein (2000), men refuse to use condoms during intercourse with girls or women performing sex work (p. 1043-1044). Unfortunately, the girls and women are in desperate need of money and do not have a choice. This leads to multiple sex partners, which increases the likelihood of their infection with HIV/AIDS.\n\nA 2008 study in Botswana, Namibia, and Eswatini found that intimate partner violence, extreme poverty, education, and partner income disparity explained almost all of the differences in HIV status among adults aged 15–29 years. Among young women with any one of these factors, the HIV rate increased from 7.7 percent with no factors to 17.1 percent. Approximately 26 percent of young women with any two factors were HIV positive, with 36 percent of those with any three factors and 39.3 percent of those with all four factors being HIV-positive.\n\nMost HIV infections found in southern Africa are HIV-1, the world's most common HIV infection. It predominates everywhere except for western Africa, where HIV-2 is more frequent.\n\nAs of 2011, the HIV prevalence rate in Eswatini was the highest in the world at 26.0 percent of persons aged 15–49. The United Nations Development Programme wrote in 2005,\n\nThe immense scale of AIDS-related illness and deaths is weakening governance capacities for service delivery, with serious consequences on food security, economic growth[,] and human development. AIDS undermines the capacities of individuals, families, communities[,] and the state to fulfill their roles and responsibilities in society. If current trends are not reversed, the longer-term survival of Swaziland as a country will be seriously threatened.\n\nThe HIV epidemic in Eswatini has reduced its life expectancy at birth to 49 for men and 51 for women (based on 2009 data). Life expectancy at birth in 1990 was 59 for men and 62 for women.\n\nBased on 2011 data, Eswatini's crude death rate of 19.51 per 1,000 people per year was the third highest in the world, behind only Lesotho and Sierra Leone. HIV/AIDS in 2002 caused 64 percent of all deaths in the country.\n\nMuch of the deadliness of the epidemic in Sub-Saharan Africa is caused by a deadly synergy between HIV and tuberculosis, termed a \"co-epidemic\". The two diseases have been \"inextricably bound together\" since the beginning of the HIV epidemic. \"Tuberculosis and HIV co-infections are associated with special diagnostic and therapeutic challenges and constitute an immense burden on healthcare systems of heavily infected countries like Ethiopia.\" In many countries without adequate resources, the tuberculosis case rate has increased five to ten-fold since the identification of HIV. Without proper treatment, an estimated 90 percent of persons living with HIV die within months after contracting tuberculosis. The initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy in persons coinfected with tuberculosis can cause an immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome with a worsening, in some cases severe worsening, of tuberculosis infection and symptoms.\n\nAn estimated 874,000 people in Sub-Saharan Africa were living with both HIV and tuberculosis in 2011, with 330,000 in South Africa, 83,000 in Mozambique, 50,000 in Nigeria, 47,000 in Kenya, and 46,000 in Zimbabwe. In terms of cases per 100,000 population, Eswatini's rate of 1,010 was by far the highest in 2011. In the following 20 African countries, the cases-per-100,000 coinfection rate has increased at least 20 percent between 2000 and 2011: Algeria, Angola, Chad, Comoros, Republic of the Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Lesotho, Liberia, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Eswatini, Togo, and Tunisia.\n\nSince 2004, however, tuberculosis-related deaths among people living with HIV have fallen by 28 percent in Sub-Saharan Africa, which is home to nearly 80 percent of the people worldwide who are living with both diseases.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54431153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54431153", "title": "Healthcare Delivery Organization", "text": "Healthcare Delivery Organization\n\nA healthcare delivery organization (HDO) is a healthcare organization, such as an IDS, physician group or hospital.\n"}
{"id": "16984755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16984755", "title": "History of sugar", "text": "History of sugar\n\nSugar was first produced from sugarcane plants in northern India sometime after the first century CE. The derivation of the word “sugar” is thought to be from Sanskrit, and Sanskrit literature from India, written between 1500 - 500 B.C. provides the first documentation of the cultivation of sugar cane and of the manufacture of sugar in the Bengal region of India. The Sanskrit name for a crudely made sugar substance was guda, meaning “to make into a ball or to conglomerate.”\n\nThe history of sugar has five main phases:\n\n\nKnown worldwide by the end of the medieval period, sugar was very expensive and was considered a \"fine spice\", but from about the year 1500, technological improvements and New World sources began turning it into a much cheaper bulk commodity.\n\nThe people of New Guinea were probably the first to domesticate sugarcane, sometime around 8,000 BC. After domestication, its cultivation spread rapidly to Southeast Asia and southern China. India, where the process of refining cane juice into granulated crystals was developed, was often visited by imperial convoys (such as those from China) to learn about cultivation and sugar refining. By the sixth century AD, sugar cultivation and processing had reached Persia, and from there that knowledge was brought into the Mediterranean by the Arab expansion. \"Wherever they went, the [medieval] Arabs brought with them sugar, the product and the technology of its production.\"\n\nSpanish and Portuguese exploration and conquest in the fifteenth century carried sugar south-west of Iberia. Henry the Navigator introduced cane to Madeira in 1425, while the Spanish, having eventually subdued the Canary Islands, introduced sugar cane to them. In 1493, on his second voyage, Christopher Columbus carried sugarcane seedlings to the New World, in particular Hispaniola.\n\nSugarcane originated in tropical South Asia and Southeast Asia. Different species likely originated in different locations with \"S. barberi\" originating in India and \"S. edule\" and \"S. officinarum\" coming from New Guinea.\n\nOriginally, people chewed sugarcane raw to extract its sweetness. Indians discovered how to crystallize sugar during the Gupta dynasty, around 350 AD.\n\nThere are lot of mentions in Tamil sangam literatures like Purananuru, Ainkurunuru, Perumpaanaatruppadai, Paṭṭiṉappālai and Akananuru about cultivation of sugarcane, sugarcane juice extraction using machines, and sugar extraction in the Tamil regions of South India. It is mentioned in Purananuru (392): here, the sugar cane is brought to Tamil land from an unknown place during the Sangam period. In Purananuru and Ainkurunuru, sugarcane juice extraction with use of huge machineries was compared with the sound made by elephants and the smoke produced during the process of making of sugar spread over a heap of unwinnowed paddy was like clouds over mountains.\n\nIndian sailors, consumers of clarified butter and sugar, carried sugar by various trade routes. Travelling Buddhist monks brought sugar crystallization methods to China. During the reign of Harsha (r. 606–647) in North India, Indian envoys in Tang China taught sugarcane cultivation methods after Emperor Taizong of Tang (r. 626–649) made his interest in sugar known, and China soon established its first sugarcane cultivation in the seventh century. Chinese documents confirm at least two missions to India, initiated in 647 AD, for obtaining technology for sugar-refining. In South Asia, the Middle East and China, sugar became a staple of cooking and desserts.\n\nEarly refining methods involved grinding or pounding the cane in order to extract the juice, and then boiling down the juice or drying it in the sun to yield sugary solids that looked like gravel. The Sanskrit word for \"sugar\" (\"sharkara\") also means \"gravel\" or \"sand\". Similarly, the Chinese use the term \"gravel sugar\" (Traditional Chinese: 砂糖) for what the West knows as \"table sugar\".\n\nIn the year 1792, sugar rose by degrees to an enormous price in Great Britain. The East India Company was then called upon to lend their assistance to help in the lowering of the price of sugar. On 15 March 1792, his Majesty's Ministers to the British Parliament, presented a report related to the production of refined sugar in British India. Lieutenant J. Paterson, of the Bengal establishment, reported that refined sugar could be produced in India with many superior advantages, and a lot more cheaply than in the West Indies.\n\nThere are records of knowledge of sugar among the ancient Greeks and Romans, but only as an imported medicine, and not as a food. For example, the Greek physician Dioscorides in the 1st century (AD) wrote: \"There is a kind of coalesced honey called \"sakcharon\" [i.e. sugar] found in reeds in India and Eudaimon Arabia [i.e. Yemen] similar in consistency to salt and brittle enough to be broken between the teeth like salt. It is good dissolved in water for the intestines and stomach, and [can be] taken as a drink to help [relieve] a painful bladder and kidneys.\" Pliny the Elder, a 1st-century (AD) Roman, also described sugar as medicinal: \"Sugar is made in Arabia as well, but Indian sugar is better. It is a kind of honey found in cane, white as gum, and it crunches between the teeth. It comes in lumps the size of a hazelnut. Sugar is used only for medical purposes.\"\n\nDuring the medieval era, Arab entrepreneurs adopted sugar production techniques from India and expanded the industry. Medieval Arabs in some cases set up large plantations equipped with on-site sugar mills or refineries. The cane sugar plant, which is native to a tropical climate, requires both a lot of water and a lot of heat to thrive. The cultivation of the plant spread throughout the medieval Arab world using artificial irrigation. Sugar cane was first grown extensively in medieval Southern Europe during the period of Arab rule in Sicily beginning around the 9th century. In addition to Sicily, Al-Andalus (in what is currently southern Spain) was an important center of sugar production, beginning by the tenth century.\n\nFrom the Arab world, sugar was exported throughout Europe. The volume of imports increased in the later medieval centuries as indicated by the increasing references to sugar consumption in late medieval Western writings. But cane sugar remained an expensive import. Its price per pound in 14th and 15th century England was about equally as high as imported spices from tropical Asia such as mace (nutmeg), ginger, cloves, and pepper, which had to be transported across the Indian Ocean in that era.\n\nPonting traces the spread of the cultivation of sugarcane from its introduction into Mesopotamia, then the Levant and the islands of the eastern Mediterranean, especially Cyprus, by the 10th century. He also notes that it spread along the coast of East Africa to reach Zanzibar.\n\nCrusaders brought sugar home with them to Europe after their campaigns in the Holy Land, where they encountered caravans carrying \"sweet salt\". Early in the 12th century, Venice acquired some villages near Tyre and set up estates to produce sugar for export to Europe, where it supplemented honey as the only other available sweetener.\nCrusade chronicler William of Tyre, writing in the late 12th century, described sugar as \"a most precious product, very necessary for the use and health of mankind\". The first record of sugar in English is in the late 13th century.\n\nPonting recounts the reliance on slavery of the early European sugar entrepreneurs:\nThe crucial problem with sugar production was that it was highly labour-intensive in both growing and processing. Because of the huge weight and bulk of the raw cane it was very costly to transport, especially by land, and therefore each estate had to have its own factory. There the cane had to be crushed to extract the juices, which were boiled to concentrate them, in a series of backbreaking and intensive operations lasting many hours. However, once it had been processed and concentrated, the sugar had a very high value for its bulk and could be traded over long distances by ship at a considerable profit. The [European sugar] industry only began on a major scale after the loss of the Levant to a resurgent Islam and the shift of production to Cyprus under a mixture of Crusader aristocrats and Venetian merchants. The local population on Cyprus spent most of their time growing their own food and few would work on the sugar estates. The owners therefore brought in slaves from the Black Sea area (and a few from Africa) to do most of the work. The level of demand and production was low and therefore so was the trade in slaves — no more than about a thousand people a year. It was not much larger when sugar production began in Sicily.\n\nIn the Atlantic ocean [the Canaries, Madeira, and the Cape Verde Islands], once the initial exploitation of the timber and raw materials was over, it rapidly became clear that sugar production would be the most profitable way of getting money from the new territories. The problem was the heavy labour involved because the Europeans refused to work except as supervisors. The solution was to bring in slaves from Africa. The crucial developments in this trade began in the 1440's...\nDuring the 1390s, a better press was developed, which doubled the amount of juice that was obtained from the sugarcane and helped to cause the economic expansion of sugar plantations to Andalusia and to the Algarve. It started in Madeira in 1455, using advisers from Sicily and (largely) Genoese capital for the mills. The accessibility of Madeira attracted Genoese and Flemish traders keen to bypass Venetian monopolies. \"By 1480 Antwerp had some seventy ships engaged in the Madeira sugar trade, with the refining and distribution concentrated in Antwerp. The 1480's saw sugar production extended to the Canary Islands. By the 1490's Madeira had overtaken Cyprus as a producer of sugar.\"\nAfrican slaves also worked in the sugar plantations of the Kingdom of Castile around Valencia.\n\nIn the 16th century Rabbi Yosef Karo, the author of the Shulchan Aruch, the code of Jewish law, mentions the use of sugar mixed with the juice of lemons and water by Jews in Cairo, Egypt to make lemonade on Sabbath. (Orech Chayim, Hilchot Shabbat)\n\nThe Portuguese took sugar to Brazil. By 1540, there were 800 cane sugar mills in Santa Catarina Island and there were another 2,000 on the north coast of Brazil, Demarara, and Surinam. The first sugar harvest happened in Hispaniola in 1501; and many sugar mills had been constructed in Cuba and Jamaica by the 1520s.\n\nThe approximately 3,000 small sugar mills that were built before 1550 in the New World created an unprecedented demand for cast iron gears, levers, axles and other implements. Specialist trades in mold-making and iron casting developed in Europe due to the expansion of sugar production. Sugar mill construction sparked development of the technological skills needed for a nascent industrial revolution in the early 17th century.\n\nAfter 1625, the Dutch carried sugarcane from South America to the Caribbean islands, where it was grown from Barbados to the Virgin Islands.\n\nContemporaries often compared the worth of sugar with valuable commodities including musk, pearls, and spices. Sugar prices declined slowly as its production became multi-sourced, especially through British colonial policy. Formerly an indulgence of only the rich, the consumption of sugar also became increasingly common among the poor as well. Sugar production increased in mainland North American colonies, in Cuba, and in Brazil. The labour force at first included European indentured servants and local Native American slaves. However, European diseases such as smallpox and African ones such as malaria and yellow fever soon reduced the numbers of local Native Americans. Europeans were also very susceptible to malaria and yellow fever, and the supply of indentured servants was limited. African slaves became the dominant source of plantation workers because they were more resistant to malaria and yellow fever, and because the supply of slaves was abundant on the African coast.\n\nDuring the 18th century, sugar became enormously popular. Britain, for example, consumed five times as much sugar in 1770 as in 1710.\nBy 1750 sugar surpassed grain as \"the most valuable commodity in European trade — it made up a fifth of all European imports and in the last decades of the century four-fifths of the sugar came from the British and French colonies in the West Indies.\"\nThe sugar market went through a series of booms. The heightened demand and production of sugar came about to a large extent due to a great change in the eating habits of many Europeans. For example, they began consuming jams, candy, tea, coffee, cocoa, processed foods, and other sweet victuals in much greater amount. Reacting to this increasing craze, the islands took advantage of the situation and set about producing still more sugar. In fact, they produced up to ninety percent of the sugar that the western Europeans consumed. Some islands proved more successful than others when it came to producing the product. In Barbados and the British Leeward Islands sugar provided 93% and 97% respectively of exports.\n\nPlanters later began developing ways to boost production even more. For example, they began using more farming methods when growing their crops. They also developed more advanced mills and began using better types of sugarcane. In the eighteenth century \"the French colonies were the most successful, especially Saint-Domingue, where better irrigation, water-power and machinery, together with concentration on newer types of sugar, increased profits.\"\nDespite these and other improvements, the price of sugar reached soaring heights, especially during events such as the revolt against the Dutch and the Napoleonic Wars. Sugar remained in high demand, and the islands' planters knew exactly how to take advantage of the situation.\n\nAs Europeans established sugar plantations on the larger Caribbean islands, prices fell, especially in Britain. By the 18th century all levels of society had become common consumers of the former luxury product. At first most sugar in Britain went into tea, but later confectionery and chocolates became extremely popular. Many Britons (especially children) also ate jams. Suppliers commonly sold sugar in the form of a sugarloaf and consumers required sugar nips, a pliers-like tool, to break off pieces.\n\nSugarcane quickly exhausts the soil in which it grows, and planters pressed larger islands with fresher soil into production in the nineteenth century as demand for sugar in Europe continued to increase: \"average consumption in Britain rose from four pounds per head in 1700 to eighteen pounds in 1800, thirty-six pounds by 1850 and over one hundred pounds by the twentieth century.\"\nIn the 19th century Cuba rose to become the richest land in the Caribbean (with sugar as its dominant crop) because it formed the only major island landmass free of mountainous terrain. Instead, nearly three-quarters of its land formed a rolling plain — ideal for planting crops. Cuba also prospered above other islands because Cubans used better methods when harvesting the sugar crops: they adopted modern milling methods such as watermills, enclosed furnaces, steam engines, and vacuum pans. All these technologies increased productivity. Cuba also retained slavery longer than the most of the rest of the Caribbean islands.\n\nAfter the Haitian Revolution established the independent state of Haiti, sugar production in that country declined and Cuba replaced Saint-Domingue as the world's largest producer.\n\nLong established in Brazil, sugar production spread to other parts of South America, as well as to newer European colonies in Africa and in the Pacific, where it became especially important in Fiji. Mauritius, Natal and Queensland in Australia started growing sugar. The older and newer sugar production areas now tended to use indentured labour rather than slaves, with workers \"shipped across the world ... [and] ... held in conditions of near slavery for up to ten years... In the second half of the nineteenth century over 450,000 indentured labourers went from India to the British West Indies, others went to Natal, Mauritius and Fiji (where they became a majority of the population). In Queensland workers from the Pacific islands were moved in. On Hawaii, they came from China and Japan. The Dutch transferred large numbers of people from Java to Surinam.\"\nIt is said that the sugar plantations would not have thrived without the aid of the African slaves. In Colombia, the planting of sugar started very early on, and entrepreneurs imported many African slaves to cultivate the fields. The industrialization of the Colombian industry started in 1901 with the establishment of Manuelita, the first steam-powered sugar mill in South America, by Latvian Jewish immigrant James Martin Eder.\n\nIn 1747 the German chemist Andreas Marggraf identified sucrose in beet root. This discovery remained a mere curiosity for some time, but eventually Marggraf's student Franz Achard built a sugar beet processing factory at Cunern in Silesia (in present-day Konary in Poland), under the patronage of King Frederick William III of Prussia (reigned 1797–1840). While never profitable, this plant operated from 1801 until it suffered destruction during the Napoleonic Wars (ca. 1802–1815).\n\nNapoleon, cut off from Caribbean imports by a British blockade, and at any rate not wanting to fund British merchants, banned imports of sugar in 1813. A beet sugar industry emerged, especially after Jean-Baptiste Quéruel industrialized the operation of Benjamin Delessert.\n\nIn the developed countries, the sugar industry relies on machinery with a low requirement for manpower. A large beet refinery producing around 1,500 tonnes of sugar a day needs a permanent workforce of about 150 for 24-hour production.\n\nSugar beets provide approximately 30% of world sugar production.\n\nBeginning in the late 18th century, the production of sugar became increasingly mechanized. The steam engine first powered a sugar mill in Jamaica in 1768, and soon after, steam replaced direct firing as the source of process heat.\n\nIn 1813 the British chemist Edward Charles Howard invented a method of refining sugar that involved boiling the cane juice not in an open kettle, but in a closed vessel heated by steam and held under partial vacuum. At reduced pressure, water boils at a lower temperature, and this development both saved fuel and reduced the amount of sugar lost through caramelization. Further gains in fuel-efficiency came from the multiple-effect evaporator, designed by the United States engineer Norbert Rillieux (perhaps as early as the 1820s, although the first working model dates from 1845). This system consisted of a series of vacuum pans, each held at a lower pressure than the previous one. The vapors from each pan served to heat the next, with minimal heat wasted. Modern industries use multiple-effect evaporators for evaporating water.\n\nThe process of separating sugar from molasses also received mechanical attention: David Weston first applied the centrifuge to this task in Hawaii in 1852.\n\nIn the United States and Japan, high-fructose corn syrup has replaced sugar in some uses, particularly in soft drinks and processed foods.\n\nThe process by which high-fructose corn syrup is produced was first developed by Richard O. Marshall and Earl R. Kooi in 1957. The industrial production process was refined by Dr. Y. Takasaki at Agency of Industrial Science and Technology of Ministry of International Trade and Industry of Japan in 1965–1970. High-fructose corn syrup was rapidly introduced to many processed foods and soft drinks in the United States from around 1975 to 1985.\n\nA system of sugar tariffs and sugar quotas imposed in 1977 in the United States significantly increased the cost of imported sugar and U.S. producers sought cheaper sources. High-fructose corn syrup, derived from corn, is more economical because the domestic U.S. price of sugar is twice the global price\nand the price of corn is kept low through government subsidies paid to growers. High-fructose corn syrup became an attractive substitute, and is preferred over cane sugar among the vast majority of American food and beverage manufacturers. Soft drink makers such as Coca-Cola and Pepsi use sugar in other nations, but switched to high-fructose corn syrup in the United States in 1984.\n\nThe average American consumed approximately of high-fructose corn syrup in 2008, versus of sucrose.\n\nIn recent years it has been hypothesized that the increase of high-fructose corn syrup usage in processed foods may be linked to various health conditions, including metabolic syndrome, hypertension, dyslipidemia, hepatic steatosis, insulin resistance, and obesity. However, there is to date little evidence that high-fructose corn syrup is any unhealthier, calorie for calorie, than sucrose or other simple sugars. The fructose content and fructose:glucose ratio of high-fructose corn syrup do not differ markedly from clarified apple juice. Some researchers hypothesize that fructose may trigger the process by which fats are formed, to a greater extent than other simple sugars. However, most commonly used blends of high-fructose corn syrup contain a nearly one-to-one ratio of fructose and glucose, just like common sucrose, and should therefore be metabolically identical after the first steps of sucrose metabolism, in which the sucrose is split into fructose and glucose components. At the very least, the increasing prevalence of high-fructose corn syrup has certainly led to an increase in added sugar calories in food, which may reasonably increase the incidence of these and other diseases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58561033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58561033", "title": "Hope For The Day", "text": "Hope For The Day\n\nHope For The Day (HFTD) is a Chicago-based non-profit organization that focuses on suicide prevention by providing outreach and mental health education through the use of music and art. The organization uses concerts, workshops, and events, and innovative partnerships to provide outreach and education.\n\nHope For The Day was founded in 2011 by Jonny Boucher after losing sixteen people to suicide, including his boss and mentor, Mike Scanland, in 2010. Boucher worked in the music industry since an early age as a concert promoter, and initially promoted HFTD by passing out fliers with information on mental health resources at music venues, churches, libraries, and schools. The organization also uses speaking engagements at local Chicago venues to raise awareness. HFTD has partnered with bands and organizations such as Beartooth and Havas. \n\nHope For the Day established Sip of Hope, a coffee bar in Chicago's Logan Square in the winter of 2016. Boucher partnered with Jesse Diaz, founder of Dark Matter Coffee, a Chicago based coffee brewing company. Sip of Hope opened on May 3 of 2018. Senator Dick Durbin and others attended to give their support for Hope for the Day's mission. The coffee shop donates all of their profits to suicide prevention projects, mental health education, and serve as outreach. Sip of Hope staff are trained and certified in mental health first aid to assist customers who seek information about mental health challenges. The staff provides aid through conversation and resources about mental wellness. \n\nOn December 13, 2016, the American post-hardcore band Beartooth created a charity auction in support of Hope for the Day.\n\nBoucher toured with the Vans Warped Tour. The tour had a tent at each venue where they distributed resources and acted as a place for people to seek help. Boucher went on stage and let people know that it is \"OK not to be OK\".\n\nChicago Digital, a digital marketing and web design company, worked with Hope for the Day to create a website that promotes the organization to a wider audience. The website was made to be simple to update by HFTD staff and included a custom web app to help users find outreach programs near them. \n\nHavas Chicago created a public art display to support Hope for The Day. The art installation featured 121 mannequins dressed in shirts that read the slogan \"It's OK to not to be OK\". The mannequins symbolized the average suicide rate per day. The display also acted as a fundraiser known as #121ToNone, where a mannequin would be removed for every $121 dollars donated or whenever 121,000 times the hashtag #121ToNone was used on Instagram.\n\nBoucher, and director of programs and operations, Carl Evans, teamed up with AnnMarie Parker of Nickel A Day Films to direct and create a short film based in the Chicago neighborhood of Naperville. The short film \"I'm Fine\" is about a group of friends coping after a young teenage girl commits suicide. The film revolves around the pressure to be successful and meet the expectations of families, schools, and friends in Naperville and DuPage County. These areas are known for putting pressure on kids to succeed.\n\nStarting in 2016, HFTD holds monthly free health seminars at the Logan Square Public Library to help educate the public on mental health and suicide prevention. The workshop to supplies tools to enable proactive mental health care to individuals and communities in Chicago. \n"}
{"id": "55097960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55097960", "title": "Hypodysfibrinogenemia", "text": "Hypodysfibrinogenemia\n\nHypodysfibrinogenemia, also termed congenital hypodysfibrinogenemia, is a rare hereditary fibrinogen disorder cause by mutations in one or more of the genes that encode a factor critical for blood clotting, fibrinogen. These mutations result in the production and circulation at reduced levels of fibrinogen at least some of which is dysfunctional. Hypodysfibrinogenemia exhibits reduced penetrance, i.e. only some family members with the mutated gene develop symptoms.\n\nThe disorder is similar to a form of dysfibrinogenemia termed congenital dysfibrinogenemia. However, congenital dysfibrinogenemia differs form hypodysfibrinogenemia in four ways. Congenital dysfibrinogenemia involves: the circulation at normal levels of fibrinogen at least some of which is dysfunctional; a different set of causative gene mutations; a somewhat different mix of clinical symptoms; and a much lower rate of penetrance.\n\nHypodysfibrinogenemia causes episodes of pathological bleeding and thrombosis due not only to low levels of circulating fibrinogen but also to the dysfunction of a portion of the circulating fibrinogen. The disorder can lead to very significant bleeding during even minor surgical procedures and women afflicted with the disorderoften suffer significant bleeding during and after giving child birth, higher rates of miscarriages, and menorrhagia, i.e. abnormally heavy bleeding during the menstrual period.\n\nIn of study of 32 individuals diagnoses with hypodysfibrinogenemia, 41% presented with episodic bleeding, 43% presented with episodic thrombosis, and 16% were asymptomatic, being detected by abnormal blood tests. Bleeding and thrombosis generally begin in adulthood with the average age at the time of presentation and diagnosis being 32 years. Bleeding is more frequent and severe in women of child-bearing age; these women may suffer miscarriages, menometrorrhagia, and excessive bleeding during child birth and/or the postpartum period. Excessive bleeding following major or minor surgery, including dental extractions, occurs in both females and males with the disorder. Thrombotic complications of the disorder are often (~50%) recurrent and can involve central and peripheral arteries, deep and superficial veins. Thrombotic events may be serious and involve occlusion of a cerebral artery leading to stroke, splanchnic venous thrombosis, and pulmonary thrombosis presumptively secondary to deep vein thrombosis.\n\nCirculating fibrinogen is a glycoprotein made of two trimers each of which is composed of three polypeptide chains, Aα (also termed α) encoded by the \"FGA\" gene, Bβ (also termed β) encoded by the \"FGB\" gene, and γ encoded by the \"FGG\" gene. All three genes are located on the long or \"q\" arm of human chromosome 4 (at positions 4q31.3, 4q31.3, and 4q32.1, respectively) and are the sites where mutations occur that code for a dysfunctional fibrinogen and/or reduced fibrinogen levels which are the cause of congenital hypodysfibrinogenemia.\n\nCongenital hypodysfibrinogenemia is inherited as an autosomal dominant disorder caused by at least 32 different types of single mutations. Ten of these mutations are in the \"FGA\" gene, 5 in the \"FGB\" gene, and 17 in the FGG gene. The mutations are mainly missense mutations with nonsense and Frameshift mutations each occurring in 12.5% of cases. The causes of two fibrinogen abnormalities that characterize hypodysfibrinogenemia, i.e. circulation at reduced levels of fibrinogen at least some of which is dysfunctional, reflect different molecular mechanisms: \n\nThe following Table adds further information on the just cited examples of hypodysfibrinogenemias. The Table gives: a) each mutated protein's trivial name; b) the gene mutated (i.e. \"FGA, FGB,\" or \"FGG\"), its mutation site (i.e. numbered nucleotide in the cloned gene), and name of the nucleotides (i.e. C, T, A, G) at these sites before>after the mutation; c) the name of the altered fibrinogen peptide (Aα, Bβ, or λ) and the amino acids (using standard abbreviations) occurring before-after the mutation at the numbered amino acid(s) sites in the circulating mutated fibrinogen; d) the pathophysiology for the mutated fibrinogen's misfunction(s); and e) the clinical consequence(s) of the mutation. Unless noted as a deletion (del) or frame shift (fs), all mutations are missense or nonsense mutations. A nonsense mutation causing a premature stop codon and thereby a shorten polypeptide chain is notated by an X (PSC) after the altered amino acid codon.\n\nHypodysfibrinogenemia is usually diagnosed in individuals who: have a history of abnormal bleeding or thrombosis or are a close blood relative of such an individual. Initial laboratory findings include a decrease in serum fibrinogen mass levels as measured by immunoassay plus a reduction in inducible blood clot formation so that the ratio of functionally-detected fibrinogen mass (i.e. detected in induced clots) to immunoassay-detected fibrinogen mass is abnormally low, i.e. <0.7. This contrast with individuals with congenital dysfibrinogenemia who exhibit normal levels of fibrinogen as measured by immunoassay but low functionally-detected to immunoassay-detected fibrinogen mass ratios, i.e. <0.7. Where available, specialized laboratories can conduct studies to define the exact gene mutation(s) and fibrinogen abnormalities underlying the disorder.\n\nBlood relatives of the proband case should be evaluated for the presence of hypodysfibrinogenemia. Individuals with the disorder need to be advised on its inheritance, complications, and preventative measures that can be taken to avoid bleeding and/or thrombosis. Since >80% of individuals may develop bleeding or thrombosis complications of the disorder, asymptomatic individuals diagnosed with hydposyfibrinogenemia are best handled at a specialized center in order to benefit from multidisciplinary management.\n\nMeasures to prevent and/or treat complications of hypodysfibrinogenemia should be tailored to the personal and family history of the individual by a specialized center. Individuals with a personal or family history of bleeding are considered to be of low risk of bleeding when their functional fibrinogen levels are >1 gram/liter for major surgery, >0.5 gram/liter for minor surgery, >0.5 to 1-2 gram/liter for spontaneous bleeding (depending on its severity), >0.5 to > 1 gram/liter for the first two trimesters of pregnancy, and >1 to <2 gram/liter for the last trimester of pregnancy and postpartum period. Functional fibrinogen below these levels should be treated preferably with fibrinogen concentrate or if not available, fibrinogen-rich cryoprecipitate or plasma to attain low risk levels of functional fibrinogen. Antifibrinolytic drugs such as tranexamic acid or (ε-aminocaproic acid) may be considered as an alternative preventative or therapeutic treatments in cases of minor surgery, dental extractions, mucosal bleeding, or other episodes of mild bleeding. In individuals with a personal or family history of thrombosis, should be considered for long-term anticoagulation drugs such as low molecular weight heparin, coumadin, or rivaroxaban.\n"}
{"id": "45323430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45323430", "title": "Jaeger chart", "text": "Jaeger chart\n\nThe Jaeger chart is an eye chart used in testing near vision acuity. It is a card on which paragraphs of text are printed, with the text sizes increasing from 0.37mm to 2.5mm. This card is to be held by a patient at a fixed distance from the eye dependent on the J size being read. The smallest print that the patient can read determines their visual acuity.\nThe original 1867 chart had a text containing seven paragraphs and a corresponding seven-point scale.\n\nJaeger cards are not standardized, and the variability of the actual size of test letters on different Jaeger cards currently in use is very high. Therefore, test results with different Jaeger cards are not comparable.\n\nMore commonly, distance vision acuity is tested using the Snellen chart, familiarly seen wall mounted with a large letter at the top.\n"}
{"id": "5239660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5239660", "title": "Kevin Fagan (doctor)", "text": "Kevin Fagan (doctor)\n\nDr Kevin James Fagan AO (5 February 1909 - 1992) was an Australian doctor and World War II hero.\n\nAfter attending St Ignatius' College, Riverview on a bursary, Fagan was Dux of the School in both 1925 and 1926, enabling him to study Medicine at the University of Sydney. He lived on campus at St John's College, University of Sydney from 1927-32.\n\nAfter graduation, he returned to Tasmania and became Superintendent of Hobart General Hospital in 1937. Shortly after the outbreak of World War II he joined the Army Medical Corps and was posted to Singapore in 1942 with the 8th Division. He was soon a prisoner-of-war of the Japanese, first in Changi and later on the infamous Thai-Burma Railway.\n\nAn outstanding surgeon, he was every bit as influential in his care of the sick and injured soldiers as the high-profile Sir Weary Dunlop. One of many testimonies from the Australian War Memorial reads:\n\n"}
{"id": "8765242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8765242", "title": "List of incidents at independent amusement parks", "text": "List of incidents at independent amusement parks\n\nThis is a summary of notable incidents that have taken place at various independently owned amusement parks, water parks or theme parks. This list is not intended to be a comprehensive list of every such event, but only those that have a significant impact on the parks or park operations, or are otherwise significantly newsworthy.\n\nThe term \"incidents\" refers to major accidents, injuries, deaths and significant crimes. While these incidents are required to be reported to regulatory authorities for investigation, attraction-related incidents usually fall into one of the following categories:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBetween 2011 and 2012, eight people complained of injuries from the ride. Six people complained of neck injuries and two complained of back injuries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58911", "title": "Measles", "text": "Measles\n\nMeasles is a highly contagious infectious disease caused by the measles virus. Symptoms usually develop 10–12 days after exposure to an infected person and last 7–10 days. Initial symptoms typically include fever, often greater than , cough, runny nose, and inflamed eyes. Small white spots known as Koplik's spots may form inside the mouth two or three days after the start of symptoms. A red, flat rash which usually starts on the face and then spreads to the rest of the body typically begins three to five days after the start of symptoms. Complications occur in about 30% of cases and may include diarrhea, blindness, inflammation of the brain, and pneumonia, among others. Rubella, which is sometimes called German measles, and roseola are different diseases caused by unrelated viruses.\nMeasles is an airborne disease which spreads easily through the coughs and sneezes of infected people. It may also be spread through contact with saliva or nasal secretions. Nine out of ten people who are not immune and share living space with an infected person will catch it. People are infectious to others from four days before to four days after the start of the rash. Most people do not get the disease more than once. Testing for the measles virus in suspected cases is important for public health efforts.\nThe measles vaccine is effective at preventing the disease, and is often delivered in combination with other vaccines. Vaccination has resulted in a 75% decrease in deaths from measles between 2000 and 2013, with about 85% of children worldwide being currently vaccinated. Once a person has become infected, no specific treatment is available, but supportive care may improve outcomes. This may include giving oral rehydration solution (slightly sweet and salty fluids), healthy food, and medications to control the fever. Antibiotics may be used if a secondary bacterial infection such as pneumonia occurs. Vitamin A supplementation is also recommended in the developing world.\nMeasles affects about 20 million people a year, primarily in the developing areas of Africa and Asia. No other vaccine-preventable disease causes as many deaths. In 1980, 2.6 million people died of it, and in 1990, 545,000 died; by 2014, global vaccination programs had reduced the number of deaths from measles to 73,000. The risk of death among those infected is usually 0.2%, but may be up to 10% in people with malnutrition. Most of those who die from the infection are less than five years old. Measles is not believed to affect other animals. Before immunization in the United States, between three and four million cases occurred each year. As a result of widespread vaccination, the disease was declared eliminated from the Americas in 2016. It, however, occurred again in 2017 and 2018 in this region.\nIt typically takes 10–14 days from the time that the virus enters the body to the beginning of symptoms. The classic symptoms include a four-day fever (the 4 D's) and the three C's—cough, coryza (head cold, fever, sneezing), and conjunctivitis (red eyes)—along with fever and rashes. Fever is common and typically lasts for about one week; the fever seen with measles is often as high as .\n\nKoplik's spots seen inside the mouth are diagnostic for measles, but are temporary and therefore rarely seen. Koplik spots are small white spots that are commonly seen on the inside of the cheeks opposite the molars. Recognizing these spots before a person reaches their maximum infectiousness can help reduce the spread of the disease.\n\nThe characteristic measles rash is classically described as a generalized red maculopapular rash that begins several days after the fever starts. It starts on the back of the ears and, after a few hours, spreads to the head and neck before spreading to cover most of the body, often causing itching. The measles rash appears two to four days after the initial symptoms and lasts for up to eight days. The rash is said to \"stain\", changing color from red to dark brown, before disappearing. Overall, the disease from infection with the measles virus usually resolves after about three weeks.\n\nComplications with measles are relatively common, ranging from mild complications such as diarrhea to serious complications such as pneumonia (either direct viral pneumonia or secondary bacterial pneumonia), bronchitis (either direct viral bronchitis or secondary bacterial bronchitis), otitis media, acute brain inflammation (and very rarely SSPE—subacute sclerosing panencephalitis), and corneal ulceration (leading to corneal scarring). In addition, measles can suppress the immune system for weeks to months, and this can contribute to bacterial superinfections like otitis media and bacterial pneumonia.\n\nThe death rate in the 1920s was around 30% for measles pneumonia. People that are at high risk for complications are: Infants and children aged less than 5 years, adults aged over 20 years, pregnant women, and people with compromised immune systems, such as from leukemia and HIV infection. Complications are usually more severe in adults who catch the virus. Between 1987 and 2000, the case fatality rate across the United States was three measles-attributable deaths per 1000 cases, or 0.3%. In underdeveloped nations with high rates of malnutrition and poor healthcare, fatality rates have been as high as 28%. In immunocompromised persons (e.g., people with AIDS) the fatality rate is approximately 30%. Risk factors for severe measles and its complications include malnutrition, underlying immunodeficiency, pregnancy, and vitamin A deficiency. Even in previously healthy children, measles can cause serious illness requiring hospitalization. One out of every 1,000 measles cases will develop acute encephalitis, which often results in permanent brain damage. One or two out of every 1,000 children who become infected with measles will die from respiratory and neurological complications.\n\nMeasles is caused by the measles virus, a single-stranded, negative-sense, enveloped RNA virus of the genus \"Morbillivirus\" within the family \"Paramyxoviridae\".\n\nThe virus is highly contagious and is spread by coughing and sneezing via close personal contact or direct contact with secretions. It can live for up to two hours in that airspace or nearby surfaces. Measles is so contagious that if one person has it, 90% of nearby non-immune people will also become infected. Humans are the only natural hosts of the virus, and no other animal reservoirs are known to exist.\n\nRisk factors for measles virus infection include immunodeficiency caused by HIV or AIDS, immunosuppression following receipt of an organ or a stem cell transplant, alkylating agents, or corticosteroid therapy, regardless of immunization status; travel to areas where measles commonly occurs or contact with travelers from such an area; and the loss of passive, inherited antibodies before the age of routine immunization.\n\nOnce the measles virus gets onto the mucosa, it infects the epithelial cells in the trachea or bronchi. Measles virus uses a protein on its surface called hemagglutinin (H protein), to bind to a target receptor on the host cell, which could be CD46, which is expressed on all nucleated human cells, CD150, aka signaling lymphocyte activation molecule or SLAM, which is found on immune cells like B or T cells, and antigen-presenting cells, or nectin-4, a cellular adhesion molecule. Once bound, the fusion, or F protein helps the virus fuse with the membrane and ultimately get inside the cell. The virus is a single-stranded negative-sense RNA virus meaning it first has to be transcribed by RNA polymerase into a positive-sense mRNA strand.\n\nAfter that it is ready to be translated into viral proteins, wrapped in the cell’s lipid envelope, and sent out of the cell as a newly made virus. Within days, the measles virus spreads through local tissue and is picked up by dendritic cells and alveolar macrophages, and carried from that local tissue in the lungs to the local lymph nodes. From there it continues to spread, eventually getting into the blood and spreading to more lung tissue, as well as other organs like the intestines and the brain.\n\nClinical diagnosis of measles requires a history of fever of at least three days, with at least one the following symptoms: cough, coryza, or conjunctivitis. Observation of Koplik's spots is also diagnostic. Laboratory confirmation is however strongly recommended.\n\nLaboratory diagnosis of measles can be done with confirmation of positive measles IgM antibodies or isolation of measles virus RNA from respiratory specimens. For people unable to have their blood drawn, saliva can be collected for salivary measles-specific IgA testing. Positive contact with other people known to have measles adds evidence to the diagnosis. Any contact with an infected person, including semen through sex, saliva, or mucus, can cause infection.\n\nMeasles antibodies are transferred from mothers who have been vaccinated against measles or who have been previously infected with measles to their children while they are still in the womb. Such antibodies will usually give newborn infants some immunity against measles, but such antibodies are gradually lost over the course of the first nine months of life. Infants under one year of age whose maternal anti-measles antibodies have disappeared become susceptible to infection with the measles virus.\n\nIn developed countries, it is recommended that children be immunized against measles at 12 months, generally as part of a three-part MMR vaccine (measles, mumps, and rubella). The vaccine is generally not given before this age because such infants respond inadequately to the vaccine due to an immature immune system. A second dose of the vaccine is usually given to children between the ages of four and five, to increase rates of immunity. Vaccination rates have been high enough to make measles relatively uncommon. Adverse reactions to vaccination are rare, with fever and pain at the injection site being the most common. Life-threatening adverse reactions occur in less than one per million vaccinations (<0.0001%).\n\nIn developing countries where measles is common, the World Health Organization recommend two doses of vaccine be given at six and nine months of age. The vaccine should be given whether the child is HIV-infected or not. The vaccine is less effective in HIV-infected infants than in the general population, but early treatment with antiretroviral drugs can increase its effectiveness. Measles vaccination programs are often used to deliver other child health interventions, as well, such as bed nets to protect against malaria, antiparasite medicine and vitamin A supplements, and so contribute to the reduction of child deaths from other causes.\n\nThe Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) has long recommended that all adult international travelers who do not have positive evidence of previous measles immunity receive two doses of MMR vaccine before traveling. Despite this, a retrospective study of pre-travel consultations with prospective travelers at CDC-associated travel clinics found that of the 16% of adult travelers who were considered eligible for vaccination, only 47% underwent vaccination during the consultation; of these, patient refusal accounted for nearly half (48%), followed by healthcare provider decisions (28%) and barriers in the health system (24%).\n\nThere is no specific antiviral treatment if measles develops. Instead the medications are generally aimed at treating superinfections, maintaining good hydration with adequate fluids, and pain relief. Some groups are also given vitamin A, like young children and the severely malnourished, which act as an immunomodulator that boosts the antibody responses to measles and decreases the risk of serious complications.\n\nTreatment addresses symptoms, with ibuprofen or paracetamol to reduce fever and pain and, if required, a fast-acting medication to dilate the airways for cough. As for aspirin, some research has suggested a correlation between children who take aspirin and the development of Reye syndrome.\n\nThe use of vitamin A during treatment is recommended to decrease the risk of blindness. A systematic review of trials into its use found no reduction in overall mortality, but it did reduce mortality in children aged under two years. It is unclear if zinc supplementation in children with measles affects outcomes.\n\nComplications may include pneumonia, ear infections, bronchitis (either viral bronchitis or secondary bacterial bronchitis), and brain inflammation. Brain inflammation from measles has a mortality rate of 15%. While there is no specific treatment for brain inflammation from measles, antibiotics are required for bacterial pneumonia, sinusitis, and bronchitis that can follow measles.\n\nThe majority of people survive measles, though in some cases, complications may occur. Possible consequences of measles virus infection include bronchitis, sensorineural hearing loss, and—in about 1 in 10,000 to 1 in 300,000 cases—panencephalitis, which is usually fatal. Acute measles encephalitis is another serious risk of measles virus infection. It typically occurs two days to one week after the breakout of the measles rash and begins with very high fever, severe headache, convulsions and altered mentation. A person with measles encephalitis may become comatose, and death or brain injury may occur.\n\nMeasles is extremely infectious and its continued circulation in a community depends on the generation of susceptible hosts by birth of children. In communities which generate insufficient new hosts the disease will die out. This concept was first recognized in measles by Bartlett in 1957, who referred to the minimum number supporting measles as the critical community size (CCS). Analysis of outbreaks in island communities suggested that the CCS for measles is around 250,000. To achieve herd immunity, more than 95% of the community must be vaccinated due to the ease with which measles is transmitted from person to person. The disease was eliminated from the Americas in 2016.\n\nIn 2011, the WHO estimated that 158,000 deaths were caused by measles. This is down from 630,000 deaths in 1990. As of 2013, measles remains the leading cause of vaccine-preventable deaths in the world. In developed countries, death occurs in one to two cases out of every 1,000 (0.1–0.2%). In populations with high levels of malnutrition and a lack of adequate healthcare, mortality can be as high as 10%. In cases with complications, the rate may rise to 20–30%. In 2012, the number of deaths due to measles was 78% lower than in 2000 due to increased rates of immunization among UN member states.\n\nEven in countries where vaccination has been introduced, rates may remain high. Measles is a leading cause of vaccine-preventable childhood mortality. Worldwide, the fatality rate has been significantly reduced by a vaccination campaign led by partners in the Measles Initiative: the American Red Cross, the United States' Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the United Nations Foundation, UNICEF and the WHO. Globally, measles fell 60% from an estimated 873,000 deaths in 1999 to 345,000 in 2005. Estimates for 2008 indicate deaths fell further to 164,000 globally, with 77% of the remaining measles deaths in 2008 occurring within the Southeast Asian region.\n\nFive out of six WHO regions have set goals to eliminate measles, and at the 63rd World Health Assembly in May 2010, delegates agreed on a global target of a 95% reduction in measles mortality by 2015 from the level seen in 2000, as well as to move towards eventual eradication. However, no specific global target date for eradication has yet been agreed to as of May 2010.\n\nIn 2013–14, there were almost 10,000 cases in 30 European countries. Most cases occurred in unvaccinated individuals and over 90% of cases occurred in the five European nations: Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Romania, and United Kingdom. Between October 2014 and March 2015, a measles outbreak in the German capital of Berlin resulted in at least 782 cases. In 2017 numbers continued to increase in Europe to 21,315 cases, with 35 deaths.\n\nThe United States was declared free of circulating measles in 2000 with 911 cases from 2001 to 2011. In 2014 the CDC said endemic measles, rubella, and congenital rubella syndrome has not returned to the United States. Occasional measles outbreaks persist because of cases imported from abroad, of which more than half are the result of unvaccinated U.S. residents who are infected abroad and infect others upon return to the United States. As noted above, the ACIP has long recommended that all adult international travelers who do not have positive evidence of previous measles immunity receive two doses of MMR vaccine before traveling, but it has been reported that only 47% of eligible travelers underwent vaccination during pre-travel medical consultations.\n\nDespite the elimination of measles from the United States, there is still cause for concern that cases may come from other countries and infect the population. Measles vaccination throughout the population in order to prevent outbreaks like these is recommended.\n\nHowever, in 2014, an outbreak was initiated in Ohio when two unvaccinated Amish men returned to the United States from missionary work in the Philippines, harboring asymptomatic measles. Their return to a community with low vaccination rates led to an outbreak that rose to include a total of 383 outbreak-related cases across nine counties. Of the 383 cases, 340 (89%) occurred in unvaccinated individuals.\n\nFrom January 4 to April 2, 2015, there were 159 cases of measles reported to the CDC. Of those 159 cases, 111 (70%) were determined to have come from an earlier exposure in late December 2014. This outbreak was believed to have originated from the Disneyland theme park in California. The Disneyland outbreak was held responsible for the infection of 147 people in seven U.S. states as well as Mexico and Canada, the majority of which were either unvaccinated or had unknown vaccination status. Of the cases 48% were unvaccinated and 38% were unsure of their vaccination status. The initial exposure to the virus was never identified.\n\nIn 2015, a U.S. woman in Washington state died of pneumonia, as a result of measles. She was the first fatality in the US from measles since 2003. The woman had been vaccinated for measles and was taking immunosuppressive drug for another condition. The drugs suppressed the woman's immunity to measles, and the woman became infected with measles; she did not develop a rash, but contracted pneumonia, which caused her death.\n\nIn June 2017, the Maine Health and Environmental Testing Laboratory confirmed a case of measles in Franklin County. This instance marks the first case of measles in 20 years for the state of Maine. In 2018 one case occurred in Portland, Oregon, with 500 people exposed; 40 of them lacked immunity to the virus and were being monitored by county health officials as of July 2, 2018. By August 2018, 102 cases of measles had been reported throughout the United States.\n\nIn the Vietnamese measles epidemic in spring of 2014, an estimated 8,500 measles cases were reported as of April 19, with 114 fatalities; as of May 30, 21,639 suspected measles cases had been reported, with 142 measles-related fatalities.\n\nIn the Naga Self-Administered Zone in a remote northern region of Myanmar, at least 40 children died during a measles outbreak in August 2016 that was probably caused by lack of vaccination in an area of poor health infrastructure.\n\nEstimates based on modern molecular biology place the emergence of measles as a human disease sometime after 500 AD (the former speculation that the Antonine Plague of 165–180 AD was caused by measles is now discounted). The first systematic description of measles, and its distinction from smallpox and chickenpox, is credited to the Persian physician Rhazes (860–932), who published \"The Book of Smallpox and Measles\". Given what is now known about the evolution of measles, Rhazes' account is remarkably timely, as recent work that examined the mutation rate of the virus indicates the measles virus emerged from rinderpest (cattle plague) as a zoonotic disease between 1100 and 1200 AD, a period that may have been preceded by limited outbreaks involving a virus not yet fully acclimated to humans. This agrees with the observation that measles requires a susceptible population of >500,000 to sustain an epidemic, a situation that occurred in historic times following the growth of medieval European cities.\nMeasles is an endemic disease, meaning it has been continually present in a community, and many people develop resistance. In populations not exposed to measles, exposure to the new disease can be devastating. In 1529, a measles outbreak in Cuba killed two-thirds of those natives who had previously survived smallpox. Two years later, measles was responsible for the deaths of half the population of Honduras, and it had ravaged Mexico, Central America, and the Inca civilization.\n\nBetween roughly 1855 and 2005, measles has been estimated to have killed about 200 million people worldwide. Measles killed 20 percent of Hawaii's population in the 1850s. In 1875, measles killed over 40,000 Fijians, approximately one-third of the population. In the 19th century, the disease killed 50% of the Andamanese population. Seven to eight million children are thought to have died from measles each year before the vaccine was introduced.\n\nIn 1954, the virus causing the disease was isolated from a 13-year-old boy from the United States, David Edmonston, and adapted and propagated on chick embryo tissue culture. To date, 21 strains of the measles virus have been identified. While at Merck, Maurice Hilleman developed the first successful vaccine. Licensed vaccines to prevent the disease became available in 1963. An improved measles vaccine became available in 1968. Measles as an endemic disease was eliminated from the United States in 2000, but continues to be reintroduced by international travelers.\n\nGerman anti-vaccination campaigner and HIV/AIDS denialist Stefan Lanka posed a challenge on his website in 2011, offering a sum of €100,000 for anyone who could scientifically prove that measles is caused by a virus and determine the diameter of the virus. He posits that the illness is psychosomatic and that the measles virus does not exist. When provided with overwhelming scientific evidence from various medical studies by German physician David Bardens, Lanka did not accept the findings, forcing Bardens to appeal in court. The legal case ended with the ruling that Lanka was to pay the prize. The case received wide international coverage that prompted many to comment on it, including neurologist, well-known skeptic and science-based medicine advocate Steven Novella, who called Lanka \"a crank\".\n\nOther names include morbilli, rubeola, red measles, and English measles.\n\nIn May 2015, the journal \"Science\", published a report in which researchers found that the measles infection can leave a population at increased risk for mortality from other diseases for two to three years.\n\nA specific drug treatment for measles, ERDRP-0519 has shown promising results in animal studies, but has not yet been tested in humans.\n\n"}
{"id": "54517341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54517341", "title": "Mental health in the United Kingdom", "text": "Mental health in the United Kingdom\n\nMental health in the United Kingdom involves state, private and community sector intervention in mental health issues. One of the first countries to build asylums, the United Kingdom was also one of the first countries to turn away from them as the primary mode of treatment for the mentally ill. It was Enoch Powell in 1961, then Minister of Health, who led the shift towards Care in the Community, the British version of deinstitutionalisation. The majority of mental health care is now provided by the National Health Service, assisted by the private and the voluntary sectors.\n\nAccording to an investigation in 2018, the NHS is struggling to cope with rising demand for mental health care, with a shortage of beds, patients facing long delays in accessing treatment, and receiving inadequate care when they do. Areas of concern include support for pregnant women and new mothers; depression, anxiety and suicidal thoughts in school-age children and adolescents; and the use of restraints on mental health patients.\n\nThe Madhouses Act 1774 was the first legislation in the United Kingdom addressing mental health. Privately funded lunatic asylums were widely established during the nineteenth century. The County Asylums Act 1808 permitted, but did not compel, Justices of the Peace to provide establishments for the care of \"pauper lunatics\", so that they could be removed from workhouses and prisons. The Lunacy Act 1845 established the Board of Commissioners in Lunacy. Justices were forced to build lunatic asylums financed by the local rates.\n\nIn 1859, there were about 36,000 people classified as lunatics in all forms of care in England and Wales. About 31,000 were classed as paupers and 5,000 were private patients. Over 17,000 of the paupers were in county asylums or on contract in licensed houses, about 7,000 were in workhouses, while a similar number were living 'with friends or elsewhere'. Ten per cent of workhouse infirmaries provided separate insane wards. The Lunacy Act 1862 permitted voluntary admission. Any person who had been a patient in any type of mental hospital during the previous five years could enter a licensed house as a voluntary boarder. The Lunacy Commissioners could remove lunatics from workhouses to county asylums, and the harmless chronic insane could be moved from the overcrowded asylums to the workhouses.\n\nThe Metropolitan Asylums Board, established by the Metropolitan Poor Act 1867 built two large asylums for London, Leavesden Mental Hospital and Caterham Asylum. They were built to similar designs by the same architect and each was intended to accommodate 1560 patients in six three-storey blocks for 860 females and five blocks for 700 males. They were both extended by around 500 places within five years. In 1870 there were about 46,500 poor law mental health cases: 25,500 in county asylums, 1,500 in registered establishments, 11,500 in workhouses and the remainder boarded out with relatives. In 1876, there were nearly 65,000 people classified as mentally disordered in England and Wales. It is not clear that there was actually an increase in the prevalence of mental illness.\n\nFrom around 1870 there were moves to separate what were then called idiot children from adults. Darenth School for 500 children with learning disabilities was opened by the Metropolitan Asylums Board in 1878 and a separate institution next to the school, with accommodation for 1,000 adults, was opened in 1880.\n\nThe Lunacy Act 1890 placed an obligation on local authorities to maintain institutions for the mentally ill. By 1938 131,000 patients were in local authority mental hospitals in England and Wales, and 13,000 in District Asylums in Scotland, where there were also seven Royal Mental Asylums. Mental hospitals were overcrowded and understaffed.\n\nMental health services were not integrated with physical health services when the NHS was established in 1948. Shortages of money, staff and buildings continued. Confederation of Health Service Employees organised an overtime ban in 1956, the first national industrial action in the NHS. Iain Macleod increased capital spending from 1954, hoping to increase bed numbers by 2,800. Rising numbers of patients, especially the elderly, caused a shift in policy away from institutions and towards day centres and community care.\n\nIn 1961 Enoch Powell, then Minister of Health, made his Water Tower Speech. He said \"in fifteen years time there may well be needed not more than half as many places in hospitals for mental illness as there are today\". This marked a shift towards Care in the Community, the British version of deinstitutionalisation, which was given further impetus by a series of scandals over long-stay hospitals from 1968 onwards.\n\nMost mental health problems are not easily defined. The American Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders and the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems are most generally used. According to Mind about 25% of the adult population will experience a mental health problem each year.\n\nIn 2014 the Adult Psychiatric Morbidity Survey reported that 17% of those surveyed in England met the criteria for a common mental disorder and about 37% of those were accessing mental health treatment. Those more severely affected were more likely to be accessing services. In 2017 a survey found that 65% of Britons have experienced a mental health problem, with 26% having had a panic attack and 42% saying they had suffered from depression.\n\nPregnant women and new mothers who develop mental health problems get inadequate help from the NHS and how much help they get is subject to a postcode lottery. Some take their own lives; suicide is the most common cause of death among mothers who gave birth within the previous year. The NHS considers that up to 20% of the 775,000 women who give birth annually have a mental health problem connected with carrying a child or giving birth. This includes anxiety disorders, depression and psychotic illnesses such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. According to Claire Murdoch, NHS England’s national mental health director, “As recently as 2014, only 3% of the country had good access to perinatal mental health care...\". \n\nAgnes Hann of the National Childbirth Trust said, \"These findings are shocking, and mean that thousands of women experiencing potentially serious perinatal mental health problems are not getting the support they need. Perinatal mental illness can have a severe and long-term impact on mothers, babies and families. In extreme circumstances, it can result in tragedy – suicide is a leading cause of maternal death.\" From roughly 10% to 20% of women giving birth experience some type of mental illness such as anxiety and depression or more complex problems like PTSD and psychosis. With about 665,000 births a year in England 66,500–133,000 women a year develop illnesses. In 2016, 13,000 women were treated by perinatal teams while 800 became inpatients. This means the majority were untreated.\n\nBenefit cuts and sanctions \"are having a toxic impact on mental health\" according to the UK Council for Psychotherapy. Rates of severe anxiety and depression among unemployed people increased from 10.1% in June 2013 to 15.2% in March 2017. In the general population the increase was from 3.4% to 4.1%.\n\nOn 5 March 2018, it was reported that \"hundreds of mental health patients died after NHS care failures\". The report found \"271 highly vulnerable patients died between 2012 and 2017 after 706 failings by health bodies\". Many of these patients took their own lives. The investigation found that the NHS is struggling to cope with rising demand for mental health care, as well as patients facing long delays in accessing treatment and receiving inadequate care when they do. \"NHS providers, mental health organisations and charities have warned that NHS services have too few staff\". \"There are 6,000 fewer mental health nurses in England than in 2010\". There was found to have been multiple notices of inadequate supervision of those with a clear suicide risk, NHS staff ignoring families fears of the suicide risk of a loved one and dozens of cases of staff making mistakes with patients medication or failing to properly assess a patients suicide risk.\n\nAnxiety, depression and suicidal thoughts among children and adolescents are increasing but only half get the treatment they need. Consultant clinical psychologist, Dr. Nihara Krause said, \"Schools face huge challenges in dealing with mental health issues in their students, and teachers are on the front line. They witness first-hand the devastating impact of pressures such as exam anxiety, bullying, and family problems. The consequences of these problems are serious, often life-threatening, and teachers are desperate to help. Yet at a time when the need for preventative, early intervention and specialist services are soaring, schools are finding it increasingly difficult to provide the help their pupils need. There's an urgent need for better support mechanisms in schools, as well as decent funding for the range of mental health services children and young people need.\" At least one in ten children are believed to have a psychiatric problem. Just 25% of children with mental health conditions get treatment. A child and adolescent mental health service (Camhs) worker said, \"My experience in the past eight to 10 years has been a real deterioration in children and adolescents' ability to access services - the thresholds have changed considerably.\" At least one and a half million children under age 18 live in areas without 24/7 mental health crisis care. Research by the Education Policy Institute suggests referrals to child and adolescent mental health services rose 26% in the five years to 2018. Eating disorders causing weight loss less than 15% from the ideal weight do not get referrals despite National Institute for Health and Care Excellence guidelines that they should.\n\nPoor mental health at work affects half of employees. Fewer than 1 in 5 employers offer mental health training to managers.\n\nIn the years 2009 through 2011, deaths by suicide numbered 6,045, 5,608 and 5,675 respectively.\n\nFrom 2010 to 2016, 224 inpatients at English psychiatric institutions died of self-inflicted injuries of whom 134 were men and 90 women. The overall figure seems to be falling. Though men are usually at greater risk of suicide, in 2015, for the first time, twenty women killed themselves compared to fifteen men, and in 2016 the figures were ten women and six men. Campaigners have described women's mental health care by the NHS as \"not fit for purpose\". Katharine Sacks-Jones of Agenda, which campaigns over risks to women and girls, said, \"It is appalling that we are seeing so many self-inflicted deaths of women and girls detained under the Mental Health Act. Many will have been detained precisely because they were at risk to themselves, yet the Mental Health Act is not keeping them safe and is failing to support and protect them. NHS care of women with serious psychological or psychiatric problems needs to take much greater account of the fact that many female patients have suffered violence or abuse. The reality is that the conditions under which the Mental Health Act are enforced are not fit for purpose for women and girls\". Coroners found at least 271 mental health patients in England and Wales died from 2012 to 2017, sometimes following multiple failings by NHS staff and organisations. This included mental health trusts, GP surgeries and ambulance services. Nearly one in six involved lack of staff, beds or treatment that a patient needed. Deborah Coles of INQUEST, called for mandatory independent investigations into deaths in places where there is mental health care. Coles said, \"Our casework bears witness to the escalating rise on the number of highly vulnerable women and girls dying in places where they should be safe. Critical to this is the need for greater oversight, accountability and learning. The lack of an independent investigation system for deaths in mental health settings, unlike that for deaths in police or prison custody, undermines this necessary scrutiny.\"\n\nImproved mental health funding enables people with mental health problems to become more productive workers. Patients diagnosed for the first time with psychosis are too frequently not getting the full recommended care package. Norman Lamb, Liberal Democrat Spokesperson for Health, said, \"The impact on peoples' lives of not making this investment is profound. You are left with – potentially – a miserable life, a life on benefits, a life with difficult relationships. And yet if we make that investment, we can transform lives.\" Understaffing in psychiatric hospitals sometimes leads to avoidable deaths. Coroners issued legal warnings respecting 271 deaths of psychiatric patients that happened in England and Wales from 2012 to 2017 after treatment failings. At least 154 vulnerable patients with eating disorders, mostly women with some teenagers, needed to travel hundreds of miles away from homes to get inpatient treatment in Glasgow and Edinburgh, which cost the NHS millions of pounds per year. Mental health experts were alarmed and held severe shortage of both beds and specialist staff in mental health facilities responsible. Provision of talking therapies is subject to a postcode lottery. In some cases this method of treatment is prompt, in others there are delays of up to four months.\n\nDuring the six years up to early 2018 in England and Wales 271 psychiatric patients died following failings in their NHS care. Paul Farmer of Mind stated, \"When a coroner identifies failings, the NHS needs to respond by urgently addressing any concerns raised and make sure that lessons are learned, not just on one ward or in one trust, but across NHS mental health services. We also need greater clarity when it comes to accountability – it is not clear at the moment who is responsible for making sure that the improvements called for in are carried out.\"\n\nBarnardo's claims the government plans for children's therapy are too little too late. According to Barnardo's, children in mental health crisis need to see a therapist within days rather than within a month as the government promises. Further, the proposed plans will not reach more than a quarter of children for years. Matt Blow of YoungMinds said, \"In many areas it is desperately hard for young people to get the support they need, Every day the charity's helpline hears from parents who have been waiting months for an appointment for their child and have nowhere to turn. Sometimes their children have started to self-harm, become suicidal or dropped out of school during the wait.\"\n\nYoung English people with eating disorders are sent to Scotland because the services they need are not available locally. Being away from friends and family compromises their recovery. \n\nThere are concerns that not enough is being done to support people at risk of suicide. 1,039 children and adolescents in England were admitted to beds away from home in 2017-18, many had to travel over 100 miles from home. Many had complex mental health issues frequently involving a risk of self-harm or suicide, like severe depression, eating disorders, psychosis and personality disorders.\n\nIn 2017-18 at least 539 children assessed as needing Tier 3 child and adolescent mental health services care waited more than a year to start treatment, according to a Health Service Journal survey which elicited reports from 33 out of the 50 mental health trusts.\n\nThe King's Fund found that 40% of English Mental Health Trusts experienced budget cuts in 2015–16. Money promised for children's mental health services is not reaching frontline services and instead is being used to offset cuts elsewhere. According to the Education Policy Institute 'Independent Commission on Children and Young People's Mental Health', young people still struggle to get psychiatric help. 23% of children and young people referred to mental health services are turned away due to \"high thresholds\" to access services. A report claimed, \"something has to go drastically wrong before some services will intervene\". In some areas services are so stretched that children only get help if they are suicidal or seriously self harming. Barnardos is not bidding to provide some services because with the limited funding available they do not believe they can provide a safe service.<ref name=Guardian5/5/2018>Some children reach brink of suicide before getting help with mental health, charity warns \"The Guardian\"</ref> The number of psychiatrists available to treat children and young people with mental health needs is falling despite rising demand. Patient care is being delayed or limited because staffing numbers have not kept up with growing demand, which experts connect to academic pressures, social media and other issues. Some children's treatment is delayed up to 18 months. Dr Bernadka Dubicka of the Royal College of Psychiatrists stated, “With the country facing a crisis in children’s mental health, we need a big expansion of the number of doctors … It is deeply frustrating that the number of child and adolescent psychiatrists is falling.” Plans to change mental health care for young people will come too late for the present generation.\n\nThe numbers attending A&E due to psychiatric problems rose by 50% between 2011 and 2016 and reached 165,000 in that year. Patients are suffering psychiatric crises due to lack of earlier intervention. It is suspected that yet more psychiatric cases are recorded as something else like self-harm or attempted suicide. Some trusts claim that 10% of A&E cases are psychiatric. Patients attending A&E due to psychiatric problems have not benefited from early intervention due to years of underfunding. Young people do not get early help and problems escalate.\n\nThere are calls for increased provision of in patient psychiatric services and community psychiatric services because otherwise patients will be failed, sometimes with tragic results. A&E is stressful and far from ideal for people in a mental health crisis but many patients in mental distress, some suicidal, have nowhere else to go. Some mental health services have increased but many have been cut. Forty per cent of mental health trusts have seen their budget reduced. Marjorie Wallace of mental health charity Sane, said \"cuts to services across the country continue and people seeking help are still being failed\".\n\nIn Birmingham, the Forward Thinking Birmingham consortium was selected to deliver a new combined mental health service for people aged 0–25 across the city from October 2015. The 5-year contract had an annual value of £23.7 million. It will result in the mental health trust losing £14.2m a year. An independent impact assessment recommended delayed implementation and \"bridging funding\" of at least £1.5m to enable the safe transition of some adult services. The joint commissioning board for the three Birmingham and Solihull clinical commissioning groups agreed in June 2017 to spend an additional £8.1 million over two years to ease pressure on adult mental health beds after an independent report produced by Mental Health Strategies had \"unearthed unsafe clinical practice due to a shortfall in bedded capacity\". The contract provided 28 inpatient mental health beds for young adults but the service consistently had about 51 inpatients.\n\nMental health problems among university students have been increasing. Suicides among university students have increased. There is need for better joined up care between GP's at their parents' home where students are during vacations and university provision away from home. Waiting times before students can access mental health care are long.\n\nThe Tory manifesto for the 2017 general election promised to provide £1 billion extra cash by 2021 for mental health in England, to scrap the Mental Health Act 1983 and to introduce a new Mental Health Treatment Bill. In July 2017, Jeremy Hunt announced plans to create 21,000 new NHS posts. Two thousand additional nurses, consultants and therapist posts are to be created in Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services, and 2,900 additional therapists in adult talking services, with 4,800 extra nurses and therapists in crisis care settings. Javed Khan, chief executive of Barnardo's, said, \"The response is insufficient, it's not broad enough, there is limited financial detail. It talks about rolling out a number of initiatives in a number of areas but funding is only secured to these areas until 2023. The prime minister has talked about this issue as a burning injustice but we don't think the action is matching the rhetoric.\"\n\nLarge numbers of psychiatric patients are sent out of the area where they live for treatment. In January 2018, 700 patients were sent out of their area and in February that year 650 patients received inpatient treatment outside their area. There are doubts if a target to end the practise by 2020 will be met. Health care professionals frequently spend hours looking for a place with a bed for a patient, preventing them from tending to other patients. Also, treatment away from family, friends and social contacts isolates patients and makes them less likely to recover. The King's Fund stated, \"A lack of available beds is leading to high numbers of out-of-area placements for inpatients. Out-of-area placements are costly, have a detrimental impact on the experience of patients and are associated with an increased risk of suicide.\" Mental health beds in England have declined by 30% since 2009. Beds for patients with some of the most serious illnesses which include psychosis, serious depression with suicidal feelings and eating disorders, have fallen from 26,448 in 2009 to 18,082 in the first quarter of 2018. The number of mental health nurses working in the NHS fell from 46,155 to 39,358 and the number of doctors in specialist psychiatry training fell from 3,187 in 2009 to 2,588 in the first quarter of 2018. Psychiatrists and therapists are leaving the NHS while the numbers needing help are increasing.\n\nThe police are increasingly having to deal with mental health issues because the mental health services do not do enough according to Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary and Fire and Rescue Service. This takes police resources away from fighting crime. Merseyside police reckons 25% of its police time is spent dealing with mental health problems, and Lancashire police reckons that 20,000 hours of police time, out of 70,000 hours yearly is spent working on mental health problems. Police are forced to keep vulnerable psychiatrically ill patients in police cells for the patients' safety, which leaves some patients feeling like criminals.\n\nThe Millfields Charter is an online charter which promotes an end to the teaching of any prone (face-down) restraint holds to frontline healthcare staff. In June 2013 the UK government announced that it was considering a ban on the use of face-down restraint in English mental health hospitals.\n\nFace-down restraints are used more often on women and girls than on men. 51 out of 58 mental health trusts use restraints unnecessarily when other techniques would work. Organisations opposed to restraints include Mind and Rethink Mental Illness. YoungMinds and Agenda claim restraints are \"frightening and humiliating\" and \"re-traumatise\" patients, especially women and girls who have previously been victims of physical and/or sexual abuse.\n\nThe charities sent an open letter to health secretary, Jeremy Hunt showing evidence from 'Agenda, the alliance for women and girls at risk', revealing that patients are routinely restrained in some mental health units while other units use non-physical ways to calm patients or stop self-harm. According to the letter, over half of women with psychiatric problems have suffered abuse, restraint can cause physical harm, can frighten and humiliate the victim. Restraint, especially face-down restraint can re-traumatise patients who previously suffered violence and abuse. \"Mental health units are meant to be caring, therapeutic environments, for people feeling at their most vulnerable, not places where physical force is routine.\"\n\nGovernment guidelines state that face-down restraint should not be used at all and other types of physical restraint are only for last resort. Research by Agenda found one fifth of female patients in mental health units had suffered physical restraint. Some trusts averaged over twelve face-down restraints per female patient. Over 6% of women, close to 2,000, were restrained face-down in total more than 4,000 times. The figures vary widely between regions.\n\nSome trusts hardly use restraints, others use them routinely. A woman patient was in several hospitals and units at times for a decade with mental health issues. She said in some units she suffered restraints two or three times daily. Katharine Sacks-Jones, director of Agenda, maintains trusts use restraint when alternatives would work. Sacks-Jones maintains that women in her group speak to repeatedly describe face-down restraint as a traumatic experience. On occasions, male nurses have used it when a woman did not want her medication. \"If you are a woman who has been sexually or physically abused – and mental health problems in women often have close links to violence and abuse – then a safer environment has to be just that: safe and not a re-traumatising experience. ... Face-down restraint hurts, it is dangerous, and there are some big questions around why it is used more on women than men.\"\n\nThe use of restraints in UK psychiatric facilities is increasing. In 2016–17 there was the largest number of injuries ever; 3,652 patients were injured by being restrained, data from 48 of England's 56 mental health trusts reveals. Critics say restraints are potentially traumatic even life-threatening for patients. Norman Lamb said, \"Whilst this dramatic increase may be partly explained by improved reporting, the scale of injuries is horrifying. This is also, no doubt, in part due to the stress that many trusts are under, with bed occupancy close to 100% and often relying on agency staff. This amounts to a serious and unacceptable breach of people's human rights. What is most shocking is that some of those against whom restraint is used have suffered abuse in their lives. For them, restraint amounts to an assault, which can be frightening and can completely undermine trust.\" The most injuries happened at Southern Health (534 cases), Merseycare (493) and South London and the Maudsley (255). Restraints were used 97,000 times in 2016–17. some trusts have greatly reduced the number of restraints used. Thirteen per cent of trusts have no restraint policy though 2014 government guidance asked all mental health care providers to draw one up. Staff as well as patients need to be protected and standards of training particularly in de-escalation techniques need improvement.\n\nThe police use stun guns on psychiatric patients including teenagers though this use is controversial and can be life threatening. Gracie Bradley of Liberty said, “Given the pain, distress and serious health consequences electro-shock weapons can cause, it’s difficult to see how using them on vulnerable people seeking treatment in mental health hospitals could ever be appropriate or justified. [Stun guns] can and do kill, which is why they were initially restricted to use by firearms officers – but mission creep has seen them deployed well beyond that.” Norman Lamb said the UN defines stun gun use as potentially torture. “It’s seen as a way of avoiding force but this is not a risk-free option and it is particularly shocking when [stun guns] are used against teenagers.”\n\nNHS Improvement began plans to help trusts in England integrate mental and physical health care in June 2017. Claire Murdoch said that more than 10,000 staff would be required to deliver the promised service improvements.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28327487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28327487", "title": "Mississippi Department of Mental Health", "text": "Mississippi Department of Mental Health\n\nThe Mississippi Department of Mental Health (DMH) is a state agency of Mississippi, headquartered in Suite 1101 of the Robert E. Lee Building in Jackson. It provides mental health services.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "312258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312258", "title": "Moral support", "text": "Moral support\n\nMoral support is a way of giving support to a person or cause, or to one side in a conflict, without making any contribution beyond the emotional or psychological value of the encouragement.\n\nFor example, in a war between two countries or alliances, a third nation may give moral support to one side, without actually participating in the conflict (for example, Paraguay in World War II).\n\nAnother common example can be found in sports. By coming out to watch one's friend's team play a match, one is likely not directly supporting their team in any significant way (especially if there is no charge to attend), but one's friend may still feel encouraged by the moral support of one's presence.\n\nThe line between moral support and other forms of help is often hard to draw. For example, some athletes report that they play better when the spectators encourage them—and in some cases referees' decisions may be influenced by a partisan crowd.\n\nThere is also moral support that one can offer someone who is experiencing a difficult situation. One may not be able to offer any concrete assistance except empathy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1569072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1569072", "title": "Mother and Child Scheme", "text": "Mother and Child Scheme\n\nThe Mother and Child Scheme was a healthcare programme in Ireland that would later become remembered as a major political crisis involving primarily the Irish Government and Roman Catholic Church in the early 1950s.\n\nThe scheme was referred to as the Mother and Child Service in legislation. A brochure, \"What the new service means to every family\", was prepared. It explained the new service but was not issued to the public. The scheme was engulfed in crisis before this could happen.\n\nSince the establishment of the Irish Free State in 1922 responsibility in the government for healthcare had lain with the Minister for Local Government and Public Health. No significant reform of healthcare occurred in this time and the Catholic Church still retained effective control through the ownership of hospitals and schools, while family doctors still largely practised in isolation of other medical professionals.\n\nThe Fianna Fáil T.D. Seán MacEntee started the process of reform as Minister for Local Government & Public Health in 1943. After the Second World War there was renewed optimism after the depression of the preceding decades. Once the Emergency was over the political agenda started to shift from Irish Civil War politics, which had dominated politics, to the domestic agenda and social issues. In particular issues like employment, health and housing came to the fore and this manifested itself in a move away from Fianna Fáil and Fine Gael.\n\nRegarding healthcare, international trends such as in the National Health Service of the United Kingdom and elsewhere in Europe were noticed by the Irish political system. The office of Minister for Health was created as a separate \"Minister of the Government\" by the 1946 Ministers and Secretaries (Amendment) Act; this act also created the Minister for Social Welfare. Problems, such as a high infant mortality, increased concerns and the Fianna Fáil government published a much delayed White Paper in 1947. This paper was followed by the 1947 Health Act, in which the scheme was provided for in Part III of the act. President O'Kelly convened a meeting of the Council of State to consider whether Part III should be referred to the Supreme Court, but he decided against doing so. However, the 1948 general election resulted in the surprise fall of Fianna Fáil from government and instead the First Inter-Party Government would be left with the responsibility of implementing the scheme.\n\nIn 1948 Dr. Noël Browne, a new T.D. for Clann na Poblachta, and a socialist, became Minister for Health in a coalition government. Browne was an admirer of Fianna Fáil's 1947 Health Act and intended to implement its provisions as part of a plan to reduce the alarmingly high rate of child mortality (especially from tuberculosis) in Ireland, modernise the Irish healthcare system and make it free and without means-testing for mothers and their children up to the age of 16. He was impressed with the National Health Service in the United Kingdom and successful medical procedural reforms in Denmark which reduced child mortality. He tackled the domestic health issues and was acclaimed for the results.\n\nIn July 1950, Browne's department formally submitted the scheme to the Irish Medical Association. The Association had originally opposed the 1947 bill, mentioning the \"socialisation of medicine.\" They were supported in the coalition cabinet by the experienced Fine Gael T.D. Dr. Thomas F. O'Higgins, the Minister for Defence and a former member of the executive of the Irish Medical Association.\n\nMore important was the opposition of the Archbishop of Dublin, John Charles McQuaid, who summoned Browne to his palace and read out a letter to be sent to the Taoiseach, John A. Costello, penned by Dr. James Staunton, Bishop of Ferns, which contained, \"...they [the Archbishops and bishops] feel bound by their office to consider whether the proposals are in accordance with Catholic moral teaching,\" and, \"Doctors trained in institutions in which we have no confidence may be appointed as medical officers ... and may give gynaecological care not in accordance with Catholic principles. The letter stated that health provision and physical education for children were solely the \"right\" of parents and not the State's concern. Archbishop McQuaid was the chairman of some boards of directors of Dublin hospitals. He exercised considerable influence concerning medical appointments and control over the religious orders whose members made up much of the administrative and management staff in hospitals, sanatoria etc. Concerning the term \"moral teaching\" in the letter to the Taoiseach, Browne received supportive advice - in secret - from Francis Cremin, a Maynooth professor of theology and canon law.\n\nSome bishops, McQuaid and others feared the scheme could pave the way for abortion and birth control. Though some Catholic Church leaders may have been privately sympathetic to Browne and wished to reach an accommodation, what was viewed as Browne's tactless handling of the Catholic Church forced the moderates into silence, allowing the anti-Mother and Child Scheme members of the hierarchy under McQuaid to set the agenda.\n\nMany in the Anglican Church of Ireland community also disagreed with the scheme; the \"Church of Ireland Gazette\" saw it as 'communist' interference in the family.\n\nMany doctors disapproved of the scheme, some on principle, others because they feared a loss of income and a fear of becoming a kind of civil servant, referring to the plan as \"socialised medicine\". Browne refused to back down on the issue but received little support even from his Cabinet colleagues, most of whom he had alienated on other matters, notably his failure to attend many cabinet meetings and the lack of support he had shown them in other crises. Isolated in cabinet as a 'loner' who did not consult with his more experienced cabinet colleagues, he also faced the hostility of his own party leader, Sean MacBride, with whom Browne had also fallen out, as he had with most members of the Clann na Poblachta Parliamentary Party, who resented his appointment to cabinet over the heads of more senior colleagues, and who were also offended by his treatment of them.\n\nIn April 1951, MacBride demanded Browne's resignation as a Clann na Poblachta minister. Browne duly submitted his resignation to the Taoiseach John A. Costello for submission to President O'Kelly. The resignation took effect from 11 April 1951.\n\nIn his resignation statement, Browne told the House:\n\n\"I had been led to believe that my insistence on the exclusion of a means test had the full support of my colleagues in the Government. I now know that it had not. Furthermore, the Hierarchy has informed the Government that they must regard the mother and child scheme proposed by me as opposed to Catholic social teaching. This decision I, as a Catholic, immediately accepted without hesitation.\"\n\nIn the subsequent Dáil debate on the resignation, Tánaiste and Labour Party leader William Norton claimed:\n\n\"...if this matter had been handled with tact, with understanding and with forbearance by the Minister responsible, I believe we would not have had the situation which has been brought about to-day.\"\n\nBrowne explained his approach to the Dáil by saying:\n\n\"I might say that my question to their Lordships was: Is this contrary to Catholic moral teaching? The reply, as you all know, was that it is contrary to Catholic social teaching. I was not aware — the Taoiseach can verify this — until I had asked each member of the Cabinet separately what he proposed to do, what he had been given to understand by Dr. McQuaid when that decision was taken. He then told us that that morning he had been informed by Dr. McQuaid that Catholic social teaching and Catholic moral teaching were one and the same thing.\"\n\nThe following month a general election was called and in June 1951 a new government was formed as a result.\n\nA derivative of the scheme was implemented subsequently by the Fianna Fáil government which returned to power as a result of the general election. This achieved legislative effect in the 1953 Health Act; this and later legislation that created the Voluntary Health Insurance Board in 1957 removed the compulsory attempts of government to reform healthcare. Thus what became called the two-tier system was born, the private and public systems existing side-by-side, later reinforced by the 1970 Health Act, which was the next significant legislative reform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33962555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33962555", "title": "Multiple-use water supply system", "text": "Multiple-use water supply system\n\nMultiple Use water Schemes (MUS) are low-cost, equitable water supply systems that provide communities with water for both domestic needs and high-value agricultural production, including rearing livestock. They are designed for use in rural areas, inhabited by smallholder farmers, and generally cover ten to 40 households, although some have served many more households. \n\nThe International Water Management Institute and International Development Enterprises collaborated on a project using MUS to help reduce poverty in India and Nepal. Between 2003 and 2008, 12 MUS systems were installed in Himalayan hilly areas serving a total of about 5000 households. A water poverty mapping technique helped identify the best areas to target. When the impact of the installed systems was evaluated, it showed that low initial investment costs (approximately US$200 per household) could be paid back within a year. This was because the households served with MUS were able to earn additional income of about US$190 per year through sale of surplus produce.\n\nIn a water supply system designed for a single use, such as irrigating crops, livestock might damage hardware if they try to access the water, and people needing water for domestic uses might find there is no water provided in months when it is not needed for watering crops. These problems can be overcome when designing water supply systems for multiple uses. For example, steps can be built to provide access for bathing or washing clothes, and access points can be provided to give livestock safe access to water. Sufficient water can be supplied that there is always some available for domestic uses, even at times when the crops do not need water. Other livelihood options can also be considered; for example, using water for fisheries, as well as rearing livestock, growing crops and domestic uses. MUS can benefit women; for example, by reducing the time they have to spend gathering water and by providing water close to their home with which they can grow produce to feed their families and sell on.\n\nGutu and Prowse (2017) offer some estimates from Ethiopia on farmers’ willingness to pay for a multiple-use water supply system. They find that willingness to pay is based on gender, the prevalence of waterborne disease, the time to collect water, contact with extension services, access to credit, level of income and location. Respondents would pay 3.43 per cent of average income to participate. Consideration of how gendered norms influence women’s access to extension, credit and local markets could extend the benefits of such schemes.\n"}
{"id": "49292146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49292146", "title": "Neuro biomechanics", "text": "Neuro biomechanics\n\nNeuro Biomechanics is based upon the research of bioengineering researchers, neuro-surgery, orthopedic surgery and biomechanists. Neuro Biomechanics are utilized by neurosurgeons, orthopedic surgeons and primarily by integrated physical medicine practitioners. Practitioners are focused on aiding people in the restoration of biomechanics of the skeletal system in order to measurably improve nervous system function, health, function, quality of life, reduce pain and the progression of degenerative joint and disc disease.\n\nNeuro: of or having to do with the nervous system. Nervous System: An organ system that coordinates the activities of muscles, monitors organs, constructs and processes data received from the senses and initiates actions. The human nervous system coordinates the functions of itself and all organ systems including but not limited to the cardiovascular system, respiratory system, skin, digestive system, immune system, hormonal, metabolic, musculoskeletal, endocrine system, blood and reproductive system. Optimal function of the organism as a whole depends upon the proper function of the nervous system.\n\nBiomechanics: (biology, physics) The branch of biophysics that deals with the mechanics of the human or animal body; especially concerned with muscles and the skeleton. The study of biomechanical influences upon nervous system function and load bearing joints.\n\nResearch:\nPanjabi MM, Journal of Biomechanics, 1974. A note on defining body parts configurations\n\nGracovetsky S. Spine 1986; The Optimum Spine\n\nYoganandan, Spine 1996\n\nHarrison. Spine 2004 Modeling of the Sagittal Cervical Spine as a Method to Discriminate Hypolordosis: Results of Elliptical and Circular Modeling in 72 Asymptomatic Subjects, 52 Acute Neck Pain Subjects, and 70 Chronic Neck Pain Subjects; Spine 2004\n\nPanjabi et al. Spine 1997 Whiplash produces and S-Shape curve...\n\nHarrision DE, JMPT 2003, Increasing the Cervical Lordosis with CBP Seated Combined Extension-Compression and Transverse Load Cervical Traction with Cervical Manipulation: Non-randomized Clinical Control Trial\n\nHarrison. Journal of Spinal Disorders 1998: Elliptical Modeling of the Sagittal Lumbar Lordosis and Segmental Rotation Angles as a Method to Discriminate Between Normal and Low Back Pain Subjects.\n\nGleb DE. Spine 1995: An Analysis of Sagittal Spinal Alignment in 100 Asymptomatic Middle and Older Aged Volunteers.\n\nJanik TJ, Journal Orthop Res, 1998, Can the sagittal lumbar curvature be closely approximated by an ellipse? \n\nHarrision. Spine 2001: Methods for Cervical Mensuration analyzed\n\nVoutsinas SA, Clinical Orthorpedics 1986\n\nBernhardt M. Spien 1989: Segmental Analysis of the Sagittal Plane Alignment of the Normal Thoracic and Lumbar Spines and Thoracolumbar Junction.\n\nHarrision DE, Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation 2002, A new 3-point bending traction method for restoring cervical lordosis and cervical manipulation: a nonrandomized clinical controlled trial\n\nHelliwell PS, Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, 1994 The straight cervical spine: does it indicate muscle spasm?\n\nBanks, R. Journal of Crash Prevention and Injury Control 2000: Alignment of the lumbar vertebrae in a driving posture\n\nTroyanovich SJ, JMPT 1998 Structural rehabilitation of the spine and posture:\n\nSheng-Yun L. PLoS One 2014: Comparison of Modic Changes in the Lumbar and Cervical Spine, in 3167 Patients wit hand without Spinal Pain.\n\nHarrison DE. Journal of Spinal Disorders & Techniques: 2002, Can the Thoracic Kyphosis Be Modeled With a Simple Geometric Shape?: The Results of Circular and Elliptical Modeling in 80 Asymptomatic Patients\n\nTreatment:\n\nNon-Surgical\n\nSurgical\n"}
{"id": "10913250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10913250", "title": "Norwegian Board of Health Supervision", "text": "Norwegian Board of Health Supervision\n\nThe Norwegian Board of Health Supervision (, short name \"Helsetilsynet\") is a national government institution under the Norwegian Ministry of Health and Care Services. \n\nThe Norwegian Board of Health Supervision is an independent supervision authority, with responsibility for general supervision of child protection, health and social services in the country. The Norwegian Board of Health Supervision directs the supervision authorities at the county level: the Offices of the County Governors. \n\nIn Norway there are many acts relating to health and social services that:\n\nSupervision is carried out for all statutory services, including services that are provided by publicly owned hospitals, municipalities, private organizations, and health care personnel who run their own practice.\n\nHowever, the supervision authorities are independent of political direction, and to a large extent decide themselves about priorities for which services to supervise and which areas supervision shall include. Priorities are decided, among other things, on the basis of information about risk and vulnerability.\n\nThe supervision authorities contribute to ensuring that: \n\nGeneral supervision is supervision with an overall perspective, and involves collecting, organizing and interpreting information about health and social services from the perspective of supervision. This information forms the basis for evaluating supply and quality of services.\n\nSystem audits are used for supervision of health and social care institutions (municipalities, nursing homes, hospitals etc.), based on internationally accepted methodology. The institutions are investigated by reviewing documents, carrying out interviews, inspecting premises, and carrying out random checks. Conditions that are in breach of laws or regulations (nonconformities) are documented in supervision reports. The supervision authorities follow up nonconformities with the owners and management until the conditions meet the statutory requirements. Each year, the Norwegian Board of Health Supervision designates between two and four areas for countrywide supervision.\n\nThe Offices of the County Governors information about possible deficiencies in services from many sources (patients, relatives, employers, the police, the mass media). About 2 000 cases are investigated each year to determine whether there has been a breach of laws or regulations. If a breach has occurred, the Norwegian Board of Health Supervision can give an administrative reaction against the institution, in the form of instructions to correct the conditions, or an administrative reaction against health care personnel with authorization, in the form of a warning, revocation of the right to requisition medicinal products, or withdrawal of authorization.\n\nThe Patients’ Rights Act gives the population many rights regarding health services. The Act covers the following:\n\nThe Social Services Act covers the duty of the municipalities to provide services for the population, such as:\n\nEach year, the supervision authorities deal with 6000 to 8000 complaints about these services and rights.\n\nThe supervision authorities work actively to ensure that agencies that provide health and social services use available sources of information in their work with developing management systems and with improving the quality of services. These sources include: supervision reports, decisions made in individual cases, reports about adverse events, and publications of the Norwegian Board of Health Supervision.\n\nThe findings and experience gained from supervision, other sources of information and supervision methodology are available to the public. Most of this information is available on the web site www.helsetilsynet.no. \n\nThe supervision authorities are the Norwegian Board of Health Supervision (the central office) and the Offices of the County Governor in the counties. \n\nThe Norwegian Board of Health Supervision has about 85 employees, lawyers, doctors, other types of health care personnel, child welfare and social care personnel and social scientists. \n\nThe Director General MD of the board is Jan Fredrik Andresen. He was appointed to the role in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "921327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=921327", "title": "Nursing school", "text": "Nursing school\n\nA nursing school is a type of educational institution, or part thereof, providing education and training to become a fully qualified nurse. The nature of nursing education and nursing qualifications varies considerably across the world. Since the mid 20th century nursing education in many countries has undergone many enhancements.\n\nFlorence Nightingale was one of the pioneers in establishing the idea of nursing schools from her base at St Thomas' Hospital, London in 1860 when she opened the 'Nightingale Training School for Nurses', now part of King's College London.\n\nHer intention was to train nurses to a qualified and specialized level, with the key aim of learning to develop observation skills and sensitivity to patient needs, then allow them to work in hospital posts across the United Kingdom and abroad. Her influence flourished and nursing is now a course taught at a number of British universities.\n\nApart from the nursing school of King's College London, the direct descendant of Nightingale's school, the University of Manchester was one of the first English institutions to offer the course at degree level. A new building for the Manchester Medical School was opened in the early 1970s and degree courses in nursing were established about the same time. Nursing education at the university expanded greatly in 1996 when a new School of Nursing and Midwifery was created by transferring the Manchester College of Midwifery and Nursing into the university's Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Nursing.\n\nEntry level courses, sought by most universities, are often five Standard Grades/GCSEs, including English, maths and a science (preferably biology), and two Highers/A-Levels. Mature students, over the age of twenty-one, have the option of entering upon completion of a college access course, and experience in jobs such as being a health/nursing assistant are also worthy for consideration into the course.\n\nCurrently, nursing is a three-year course in the UK, with students choosing the branch they want to study from day One e.g. adult, child, mental health, learning disability, or combinations of two (called dual-field). The course consists of a balance between course work in classes and practical placements in a health care setting. The first year is foundation, where students learn anatomy and physiology and basic health care. Newly qualified nurses then have to register with the Nursing and Midwifery Council in order to apply for jobs and legally practice.\n\nThe history of nursing education had a long and varied role in the United States. Before the late 1800s little formal education was available to train nursing students. Education was primarily based on an apprenticeship with a senior nurse who taught bedside care within a hospital or clinic setting. Over time this model changed dramatically. A short chronology of Schools of Nursing in the United States is:\n\nPre-requisites often include math, English, and other basic level courses. Basic courses in biology, anatomy and physiology are required. Depending on the nursing school, credits can be taken elsewhere, and transferred in, although limitations on time span between taking pre-requisites and applying to nursing programs exist, usually around 5 years, although some schools set no parameters.\n\nCore coursework includes anatomy, physiology, pathology, and pharmacology. Additionally, a strong emphasis is placed on procedural education such as insertion of intravenous and urinary catheters, sterile dressing changes, proper administration of medications, physical examinations, caring bedside manner, and other vital skills. After the first semester basic skills are obtained, students rotate through Obstetrics, Mental Health, Medical, Surgical, Oncology, Critical Care and Pediatric Units to get a holistic view of nursing and what it encompasses. Many nursing students and nursing schools use medical and healthcare educational software as a study or training aid.\n\nMany schools offer an accelerated bachelor's degree in nursing program. A variation of the Second Degree BSN is the Accelerated BSN. In addition to giving credit for having completed liberal arts requirements, an Accelerated BSN program allows students to complete their undergraduate nursing program's course requirements more quickly than students enrolled in a traditional BSN program. Accelerated BSN programs usually take 12 months to complete, though some programs may run for 16 to 24 months.\n\nThe traditional BSN programs may take much longer time. For example, in California, where nursing is a relatively high-paid and in high demand profession, the completion of BSN (including pre-requisites, major courses in the program, and General Education courses of college) may take 5 to 6 years. A 3.0 GPA is often an entrance requirement for many programs. Some more prestigious schools require much higher GPA score to be competitive. Many programs now also require TEAS-V test scores to evaluate potential students for entry. Also, there are other options of Associate Degree for RN and LPN programs (which in term of nursing training is much shorter and the scope of practice is different than RN). Lastly, the Master level is for experienced RNs to reach a higher education and may expand their scope of practice.\n\nIn the United States, students graduate from nursing education programs qualified to take one of the NCLEX (National Council Licensure Examination) exams, the NCLEX-PN for Licensed Practical Nurses (LPNs) or the NCLEX-RN for Registered Nurses RNs.\n\n\"See articles on individual degrees for variations on the exact name.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19662020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19662020", "title": "Pakistan Health Research Council", "text": "Pakistan Health Research Council\n\nPakistan Health Research Council (PHRC), formerly known as the Pakistan Medical Research Council (PMRC) is an autonomous research agency of Government of Pakistan under the Ministry of National Health Services, Regulation and Coordination in the field of medical and health sciences . It was established in 1962.\n\nThe Council is administered by a Board of Governors whose members include:-\n\n\nThe current Executive Director of the Council is Dr. Muhammad Ali Shahzada.\n\n"}
{"id": "5011671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5011671", "title": "Sankara Eye Foundation", "text": "Sankara Eye Foundation\n\nSankara Eye Foundation (SEF,) USA, is a US-based non-profit organization that works toward eliminating curable blindness in India. SEF's mission is to realize the goal of \"Vision 20/20 by the year 2020,\" - perform 1 million free eye surgeries annually by the year 2010.\nSEF is a 501(c)(3) registered non-profit organization.\n\nFounded in 1998 by Murali Krishnamurthy, K. Sridharan, and Sridharan's neighbor Ahmad Khushnood with the help of their first donor, Harihara Moorthy. SEF has risen to great heights from its humble beginnings. At the urging of their uncle Mr. P. Balasubramaniam of India, brothers Murali and Sridharan became motivated to help Sankara Eye Hospital run by Dr.R.V. Ramani, whose mission headquarters is in Coimbatore, India.\n\nSEF initiates and drives community eye care activities in India by working with Sankara Eye Care Institutions (SECI), India, which runs the \"Gift of Vision\" rural outreach program through Sankara Eye Hospitals in Coimbatore, Krishnankovil, Bangalore, Shimoga, Guntur, Anand, Pammal and Silvassa. Each hospital is set up to become fully self-sustaining within 5 years of service. The Gift of Vision program is based on an \"80/20\" model, i.e., four free eye surgeries are performed for each paid surgery. Thousands of rural poor have received free eye surgeries.\n\nSEF has its headquarters in Milpitas, CA. It has 100+ energetic volunteer leaders all around the United States.\n\nThe majority of SEF's funds is raised through its own events, booths at other events, donations including Founding Memberships, and advertising. Through these fund-raising efforts, SEF has played a pivotal role in increasing the number of free surgeries for the rural poor more than eightfold since 1998. The projected annual rate is 100,000 free eye surgeries in 2009.\n\nFunds collected under specific programs are sent in its entirety to India. In addition, SEF provides extensive feedback to its donors on how the money is used. SEF has been rated 4-star by Charity Navigator.\n\nCurrent Focus:\n\nFunds are being raised to:\n1) Increase the number of free eye surgeries performed annually at the existing Sankara Eye Hospitals, \n2) Establish a brand new hospital in Punjab (see news item below) \n3) Establish a second brand new hospital in Uttar-Pradesh.\n\nNews:\n\n1) SEF is \"Best of USA Large Non-Profits 2009\" winner: (Greatnonprofits.org)\n2) \"Set up More Eye Hospitals: Punjab CM\" (Sankara Eye Hospital- Punjab)\n\nAnnual Events:\n\n1) SEF Banquet: (Banquet to raise funds for SEH Punjab, Nov.14, 2009, San Ramon, CA)\n2) SEF USA Events: (Events, 2018)\n3) SEF iWalk: (August 2009 iWalk results)\n\nPartner Organizations:\n\nSEF has been supported by various organizations including the Association of Kannada Kootas of America (AKKA), Kannada Koota of Northern California (KKNC), Bay Area Tamil Manram (BATA), Telugu Association of North America (TANA), Asian American Hotel Owners Association (AAHOA), Charotar Leua Patidar Samaj Bay Area (CLiPS), Uttar Pradesh Mandal of America (UPMA) and The Rotary Club of Cupertino (Cupertino Rotary). Save Eye\n\n"}
{"id": "35685725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35685725", "title": "Thomas Geminus", "text": "Thomas Geminus\n\nThomas Geminus (1510 Lille - May 1562), was a pseudonym for the Flemish refugee Thomas Lambrit/Thomas Lambert, an engraver and printer, active from the 1540s in London, and noted for his 1545 Latin work, \"Compendiosa totius anatomie delineatio, aere exarata\" (\"A complete delineation of the entire anatomy engraved on copper\") printed by John Herford. Geminus started work in England by working with Thomas Raynalde and producing \"\"The byrth of Mankinde\" aka \"The Woman's booke\" in 1545. \n\n\"The byrth of Mankinde\", was the best English language reference work on midwifery in the 1500s. Its text was translated from Eucharius Rösslin's \"Der schwangern Frauwen und Hebammen Rosengarten\". Its first English edition was a 1540 translation by Richard Jonas. The second, by Thomas Raynalde, appeared in 1545 and saw many editions in the next 100 years. It discussed fertility, pregnancy, birth, and infant care, with the best anatomical descriptions then available. Its illustrations were again after Vesalius via Geminus’s \"Compendiosa\".\n\nThe \"Compendiosa totius anatomie\"\" consisted of 41 unnumbered engraved sheets and was dedicated to Edward VI. One of the sheets was a fold-out engraving of the external anatomy of Adam and Eve; in addition there were 3 engravings of the skeleton, 16 of the muscles, 5 of the arteries and veins, 4 of the nerves, 6 of the organs, 4 of the brain, and one of the eye and its parts, all after woodcuts by Vesalius. The Latin edition of 1545 had been distributed in Italy, France, Spain, Germany, and other countries. Geminus wrote in the later English version that it had been produced for the benefit of \"unlatined Surgeons\". He had employed Nicholas Udall, the playwright, to translate some of the work, while the text was taken from an early translation of Henri de Mondeville's \"Surgery\". The book was a great success, printing three editions in England - one in Latin (1545) and two in English translation (1553 and 1559). \n\nIn his engraved copies, Geminus removed all the detail he regarded as superfluous, notably the background landscapes which had informed Vesalius's images. The copperplate engravings were the first ever to be done in England, and enjoyed a large following in France. Jacques Grévin, the French poet who also happened to be a physician and writer on matters medical, had print editions done from Geminus's plates in 1564, 1565 and a French translation in 1569. Watermarks suggest that the plates for the 1564 Paris edition were printed in London and then transported to Paris.\n"}
{"id": "44848466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44848466", "title": "Translational Research (journal)", "text": "Translational Research (journal)\n\nTranslational Research: The Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine is a monthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering translational research. It was established in 1915 as The Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine obtaining its current title in 2006. Jeffrey Laurence (Weill Cornell Medical College) has been editor-in-chief since 2006. He was preceded by Dale Hammerschmidt. It is the official journal of the Central Society for Clinical and Translational Research. It is published by Mosby.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 5.03, ranking it second out of 30 journals in the category \"Medical Laboratory Technology\", 17th out of 153 journals in the category \"Medicine, General & Internal\" and 17th out of 123 journals in the category \"Medicine, Research & Experimental\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48928874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48928874", "title": "Truffle butter", "text": "Truffle butter\n\nTruffle butter is a spread made with butter, truffles and other ingredients such as mushrooms, and synthetic truffle flavorings such as 2,4-dithiapentane.\n"}
{"id": "15364796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15364796", "title": "VistA Web", "text": "VistA Web\n\nVistAWeb is a portal accessible through CPRS (Computerized Patient Recordkeeping System), the graphical user interface for\nthe \"Veterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture\" (VistA), the electronic health record used throughout the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical system (known as the Veterans Health Administration (VHA)).\n\nThis portal has been implemented throughout the VA system, allowing healthcare providers at remote VA facilities to view records contained within the VistA electronic health record system at the patient's primary facility.\n\nAs originally created, the VA health systems has 21 regional data systems (VISN), each with some differences in data collection and storage. The usage of VistA throughout the VA has helped to standardize records, but there has until recently not been an easy way for accessing records from a different VISN service area.\n\nIf a patient travels or is injured or sick and visits a VA facility far from their home, VistAWeb will allow the physician or other healthcare provider access to the records at that patient's home institution.\n\nVeterans Health Information Systems and Technology Architecture (VistA) VistAWeb is an intranet web application used to review remote patient information found in VistA, the Federal Health Information Exchange (FHIE) system, and the Health Data Repository (HDR) databases. To a large extent, VistAWeb mirrors the reports behavior of the Computerized Patient Record System (CPRS) and Remote Data View (RDV). However, by permitting a more robust and timely retrieval of remote-site patient data, VistAWeb is also an enhancement to CPRS/RDV.\n\nThere are three ways to access VistAWeb. VistAWeb can be made available by adding it to the CPRS Tools Menu, and it can be selected as the default method of retrieving data from the Remote Data Available button in CPRS. These two methods are referred to as CPRS-spawned versions of VistAWeb. They are compliant with the Health Level 7 (HL7) Clinical Context Object Workgroup (CCOW) standards and therefore maintain context with the patient selected in CPRS. As a third option, VistAWeb can be accessed in a standalone mode from its website at https://vistaweb.med.va.gov/.\n\nThe standalone version of VistAWeb is connected to neither CPRS nor the clinical context management application. Standalone VistAWeb serves an important function for users who have been granted special access to multiple sites, such as for National Programs, Veterans Administration (VA) researchers, and others.\n\nVistAWeb was also made available broadly, though temporarily, to assist clinical staff with the retrieval of patient information from the sites affected by damage caused by hurricane Katrina.\n\nVistAWeb was also expanded for to access patient records from the DoD AHLTA patient record system in 2009. This relied on mapping data from AHLTA via a bidirectional data exchange system to VistA. Due to errors in the bidirectional exchange system, erroneous data was transmitted to the VA, causing this remote viewer function from DoD sites to be closed.\n\nThe VistAWeb package is distributed in the public domain as a module of the VistA software package under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). It is therefore available from the VA FTP site, from the VA software distribution office, and in bundled packages. Its capabilities, therefore, can be achieved by a healthcare institution that installs the VistA electronic health record.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25724587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25724587", "title": "WHO Expert Committee on Leprosy", "text": "WHO Expert Committee on Leprosy\n\nWHO Expert Committee on Leprosy is constituted by World Health Organization to study the worldwide progress of Leprosy.\n\n"}
