{"id": "22758838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22758838", "title": "Abdullah Abdullah", "text": "Abdullah Abdullah\n\nAbdullah Abdullah (Dari/Pashto: , born September 5, his father is Pashtun, Clan Noorzai, mother - Tajik 1960) is an Afghan politician, serving as Chief Executive of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan since September 2014. From October 2001 to April 2005, he served as Minister of Foreign Affairs. Prior to that he was a senior member of the Northern Alliance working as an adviser to Ahmad Shah Massoud. He also worked as a medical doctor during the late 1990s.\n\nAbdullah ran against President Hamid Karzai in the 2009 Afghan presidential election, coming in second place with 30.5% of the total votes. In 2010, he created the Coalition for Change and Hope (now the National Coalition of Afghanistan), which is one of the leading democratic opposition movements in Afghanistan. In 2011, the coalition was transformed into the National Coalition of Afghanistan. He ran again in the 2014 presidential election and went to the second round with 45% the total vote. His closest rival, Ashraf Ghani, had secured 35% of the total vote. Due to signs of fraud, the results of the second round were heavily contested and led to a deadlock. Despite the controversy regarding the results of the second round of elections, the final certified result by the Independent election commission of Afghanistan shows that Ashraf Ghani received 55.3% of the votes while Abdullah Abdullah secured 44.7% of the vote. After months of talks and US mediation, the two candidates established a national unity government in which Abdullah serves as the Chief Executive of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.\n\nAbdullah was born in the second district of Kabul in Kabul, Afghanistan. His early years were split between living in Panjshir Province, and Kabul, where his father was serving as an administrator in the land survey, and subsequently the audit section of the Prime Minister's office. He is the son of a Pashtun father from the Kandahar area, Clan Noorzai, and a Tajik mother from the north. He has seven sisters and two brothers.\n\nUntil he became a government minister, Abdullah had only a first name; demands from Western newspaper editors for a family name led him to adopt the full name \"Abdullah Abdullah\". Dr Abdullah is married, and has three daughters and a son.\n\nAbdullah graduated from Naderia High School in 1976. Then he went on to study ophthalmology at Kabul's University Department of Medicine where he received an MBBS in 1983. From '84 to '85 he served as a resident ophthalmologist at N'oor Institute in Kabul. During the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and communist Democratic Republic of Afghanistan government from 1985 to 1986 he worked in the veterinary hospital for Animals in Peshawar.\n\nIn September 1985, Abdullah became the head of the Health Department for the Panjshir Resistance Front, coordinating treatments and health care for the resistance fighters and the civilian population. He became a close associate and adviser to mujahideen commander Ahmad Shah Massoud in the Soviet–Afghan War.\n\nAfter the fall of the communist government in 1992, the Peshawar Accord established the Islamic State of Afghanistan with a provisional government led by Burhanuddin Rabbani. Abdullah was appointed chief of staff and spokesperson of the Ministry of Defense.\n\nOn September 27, 1996, the Taliban seized power in Kabul and 90% of the country with military training support by Pakistan and established the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. \nFollowing the capture of Kabul by the Taliban, the Northern Alliance was created under the leadership of Ahmad Shah Massoud, The NA was supported by Russia, Iran and India. Dr. Abdullah became the United Front's Minister of Foreign Affairs. Islamic State of Afghanistan elements of the United Front, including the Defense Minister Ahmad Shah Massoud and the Foreign Minister Abdullah Abdullah, remained Afghanistan's internationally recognized government. The Taliban government was recognized by only three countries - Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nIn early 2001 Abdullah traveled with Ahmad Shah Massoud to Brussels where Massoud addressed the European Parliament asking the international community to provide humanitarian help to the people of Afghanistan. Dr. Abdullah translated when Massoud stated that the Taliban and al-Qaeda had introduced \"a very wrong perception of Islam\" and that without the support of Pakistan and Bin Laden, the Taliban would not be able to sustain their military campaign for up to a year.\n\nIn October 2001 the Taliban regime was overthrown by Operation Enduring Freedom including American and United Front forces. As a result of the International Conference on Afghanistan in Bonn in 2001, Abdullah was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Interim Administration in December 2001.\n\nFollowing the Afghan presidential election, 2004, Abdullah was one of the few people who kept their position from the Transitional Government and was re-appointed as Minister of Foreign Affairs for another year. In 2005 he resigned his position.\n\nOn May 6, 2009, Abdullah registered as an Independent candidate for the 2009 Afghan presidential election, running against incumbent president Hamid Karzai. Abdullah selected as his running mates Humayun Shah Asefi as his First Vice President and Dr. Cheragh Ali Cheragh (a surgeon from Kabul who is a practicing Shi'i Muslim) as Second Vice President. Afghanistan has an executive structure featuring two vice presidents, a First VP and a Second VP, to help ensure a stable government by attempting to provide ethnic and religious balance to senior government leadership positions. Unofficial and non-certified electoral results were announced during the day on September 16, 2009, showing that Abdullah was in second position with 27.8% of the total votes cast. President Karzai did not achieve the 50.01% vote majority required to avoid a runoff election. A large number of fraudulent ballots, mostly belonging to Karzai's camp, were disallowed by the Independent Afghan Electoral Commission. Karzai came under intense international political and diplomatic pressure from international leaders because of allegations of large-scale fraud. Hamid Karzai eventually agreed to participate in a designated head-to-head runoff election (held between the contenders with the two largest numbers of total votes in the first election) which was scheduled nationwide for November 7, 2009.\n\nOn November 1, 2009, Abdullah announced that he had decided to withdraw from the runoff election, citing his lack of faith in the President Karzai government's ability to hold a \"fair and transparent\" second election process. Subsequently, Hamid Karzai was declared the winner by the Afghan Electoral Commission (essentially winning by default).\n\nAfter the 2009 Afghan Presidential Elections, Abdullah created the Coalition for Change and Hope (CCH). The NCA presented the leading democratic opposition movement against the government of Hamid Karzai.\n\nIn the September 18, 2010 parliamentary election, the Coalition for Change and Hope won more than 90 seats out of 249 seats, becoming the main opposition party. As a result, it is assumed that the new Parliament will introduce some checks and balances on the Presidential power.\n\nRegarding the Taliban insurgency and Karzai's strategy of negotiations Dr. Abdullah stated:\nIn December 2011, the National Coalition of Afghanistan, supported by dozens of Afghan political parties and led by Abdullah, was formed to challenge the government of President Hamid Karzai. Major figures associated with the coalition include Yunus Qanuni (the former head of the Afghan Parliament), Homayoon Shah-asefi (a former presidential candidate and leader of the monarchist party with ties to the family of former king Mohammed Zahir, Noorolhagh Oloumi (a senior political figure in the former Afghan communist government), Ahmad Wali Massoud (a younger brother of Ahmad Shah Massoud) and several current Members of Parliament.\n\nAbdullah has been the Secretary General of the Massoud Foundation since June 2006. The Massoud Foundation is an independent, non-aligned, non-profitable and non-political organization established by people who have been affected by the life of Massoud. It provides humanitarian assistance to Afghans especially in the fields of health care and education. It also runs programs in the fields of culture, construction, agriculture and welfare.\n\nOn 1 October 2013, Abdullah officially announced his nomination for the presidential election held on 5 April 2014. On 13 April, BBC News reported that the counting indicated that Abdullah had thus far received 44.65% of the vote, with Ashraf Ghani following behind with 33.6%. Abdullah and Ghani were then bound to compete in a run-off election in June 2014. The results of that election remained in dispute through until September 2014, with Abdullah claiming the government and the national electoral institutions manipulated the results. Pressure from the United States on the two candidates to resolve their differences, and to negotiate a power-sharing deal were initially agreed to, but Abdullah later remained defiant. A UN-led audit failed to sway Abdullah as he insisted the audit team could not explain a million extra votes counted in the run-off. Ghani supporters insisted they wanted to do a deal with Abdullah, and said they were leaving the door open to negotiations.\n\nOn September 19, the Independent Election Commission announced Ghani the winner. Five hours later, Abdullah and Ghani signed a power-sharing agreement, with Ghani being named president and Abdullah taking on an important position in the government; the deal was signed in front of the presidential palace, with incumbent president Hamid Karzai in attendance. Part of the deal stipulated that the Independent Election Commission would not release the exact vote totals of the second round of voting.\n\n"}
{"id": "12789583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12789583", "title": "Amy Fisher", "text": "Amy Fisher\n\nAmy Elizabeth Fisher (born August 21, 1974) is an American woman who became known as \"the Long Island Lolita\" by the media in 1992, when, at the age of 17, she shot and severely wounded Mary Jo Buttafuoco, the wife of her illicit lover, Joey Buttafuoco. Initially charged with first-degree attempted murder, she eventually plead guilty to first-degree aggravated assault and served seven years in prison. Paroled in 1999, Fisher became a writer and a pornographic actress.\n\nFisher was born in Merrick, New York, on Long Island, to Elliot and Roseann Fisher; her father was Jewish while her mother's family, Fisher said, was \"a mixture of a lot of different things, including English.\" As a 16-year-old student at Kennedy High School in Bellmore, New York, Fisher began an allegedly sexual relationship with 35-year-old Joey Buttafuoco, who denied her claim, after damaging the car her parents had given her for her 16th birthday and appealing to Buttafuoco, owner of the body shop to which she took it, to make the repairs without her family knowing of the damage.\n\nFisher gradually fell in love with Joey Buttafuoco and became increasingly jealous of his wife. Eventually the then 17-year-old Fisher shared with Buttafuoco her idea of murdering her. According to Fisher, Buttafuoco helped her plan the shooting and told her about his wife's habits and when she was usually home.\n\nWith the aid of Peter Guagenti, Fisher obtained a .25 caliber pistol and then went out to steal a set of license plates off a neighborhood car. On May 19, 1992, Guagenti helped Fisher put the license plates on his Pontiac Firebird and then drove her to the Buttafuoco home in Massapequa, New York. Fisher later explained to the police that she had expected Guagenti to carry out the shooting, but he refused. When Mary Jo Buttafuoco answered the door, Fisher told her that Joey Buttafuoco was having an affair with Fisher's (imaginary) younger sister, providing a T-shirt advertising Buttafuoco's auto body shop for her \"proof.\" The conversation lasted about 15 minutes, but Buttafuoco became increasingly angry with Fisher's claims. She finally told her to leave and then turned her back to return into the house. Fisher then produced the gun, struck Buttafuoco in the head with it, and then aimed at her temple and fired. Buttafuoco fell to the ground, severely wounded. Fisher dropped the shirt and the gun and ran towards the car, but Guagenti told her to take the evidence with her, so she ran back to retrieve both items and then they both fled the scene. Neighbors called 911 and came to Buttafuoco's aid. She was operated on all night, and although unable to remove the bullet, the doctors were able to save her life.\n\nWhen interviewed by police, Joey Buttafuoco told them that Fisher could be the shooter. Police Detective Martin Alger obtained a photo of Fisher, and when Mary Jo Buttafuoco regained consciousness the next day, she was able to recognize Fisher from the photo. Fisher was arrested and charged with attempted murder, and on September 23, 1992, she pleaded guilty to first-degree assault.\n\nIn September 1992, the tabloid television show \"Hard Copy\" broadcast a snapped videotaped conversation between Fisher and Paul Makely, the owner of a gym in Massapequa. In the tape, recorded hours before she agreed to the plea in court, Fisher could be seen talking about her future, saying that she wanted to get married to Makely so he could visit her in prison. Fisher explained that her lawyer believed requiring people to be married for such visits was unconstitutional, and that she intended to challenge the law on this matter. Fisher could be seen on the tape saying: \"That will keep my name in the press. I want my name in the press. Why? Because I can make a lot of money. I figure if I'm going through all this pain and suffering, I'm getting a Ferrari.\" Prior to the Paul Makely Tape, Peter de Rosa, 29, secretly recorded Fisher in an act of prostitution with him in March 1992, Fisher was 17 at the time.\n\nOn December 2, 1992, Fisher was sentenced to 5 to 15 years in prison. She served seven years and was granted parole in May 1999 after Supreme Court Judge Ira Wexner vacated her guilty plea and shortened her sentence.\n\nJoey Buttafuoco denied having an affair with Fisher. In October 1992, the Nassau County District Attorney stated that Buttafuoco would not be prosecuted. However, in February 1993, the case against him was reopened due to rape charges made by Fisher. She testified against him in court and based on this testimony and hotel receipts (dated before Fisher's 17th birthday) with Buttafuoco's signature on them, Buttafuoco was charged with statutory rape. Buttafuoco pleaded guilty in October 1993. He served six months in prison.\n\nAfter her release from prison, Fisher became a columnist for the \"Long Island Press.\" She dictated a book about her experiences, \"If I Knew Then...,\" to Russell Wolliver, whose transcription of her dictations was published in 2004. In 2003, Fisher married Louis Bellera. The couple had three children before divorcing in 2015.\n\nIn 2006, Fisher reunited with Mary Jo Buttafuoco in sessions televised for \"Entertainment Tonight\" and its spinoff, \"The Insider.\" Fisher said she wanted to heal and move on with her life. However, two years later, she said she felt \"no sympathy for Mary Jo\", without giving an explanation. Fisher and Joey Buttafuoco eventually reunited for the first time at the 2006 Lingerie Bowl for the coin toss.\n\nIn May 2007, Fisher and Joey Buttafuoco met for dinner in Port Jefferson, Long Island, in what TV producer David Krieff said was an attempt to develop a reality-television show. In June and July 2011 Fisher appeared as a cast member in the fifth season of the reality-television series \"Celebrity Rehab with Dr. Drew\", which aired on VH1.\n\nIn October 2007, the \"New York Post\" published allegations that Fisher's husband, Lou Bellera, had sold a sex tape of the couple to Red Light District Video of Los Angeles. Red Light District Video published a press release stating that it intended to release a sex video of the couple. On October 31, nude pictures of Fisher from the video were posted at various internet sites, and on November 1, 2007, a teaser clip was released by Red Light District Video that showed a nude Fisher showering and sunbathing. Of note were a tattoo surrounding her navel and a breast augmentation. On November 6, 2007, Fisher sued Red Light District and its owner David Joseph, claiming copyright infringement and other damages. But by November 8, 2007, amyfisher.com, a website of whose ownership Fisher had previously fought to win, had begun pointing directly to the Red Light District website.\n\nIn early January 2008, Fisher announced that she had settled with Red Light and agreed to do a related promotional appearance. The same announcement indicated that she and Bellera had reconciled. The promotional appearance took place at Retox in New York City on January 4, 2008. Clips of the video were played on \"The Howard Stern Show.\" On March 6, 2008, Fisher was a guest on the \"Stern\" show, and one topic of discussion was meant to be her video. But after the first phone call, which was from Mary Jo Buttafuoco's daughter Jessica, Fisher left the show six minutes into her interview.\n\nOn January 12, 2009, Fisher released a pay-per-view adult film titled \"Amy Fisher: Totally Nude & Exposed.\" Fisher signed a deal with Lee Entertainment to become a stripper doing club shows at least once a month. Fisher claimed she planned to strip till her fans told her, \"Dear, please put your clothes back on. You're too old.\" In September 2010, DreamZone Entertainment released the adult film \"Deep Inside Amy Fisher\", calling it the first of eight such films Fisher would produce and in which she would star. The company had announced the movie in July 2010 under the working title \"The Making of Amy Fisher: Porn Star\". In June 2011, Fisher said she was no longer making adult films.\n\n\n\n\nAccording to Alan Ball, Fisher's story was an inspiration to him in his writing the script for the 1999 film \"American Beauty.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28878125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28878125", "title": "Aït Atta", "text": "Aït Atta\n\nThe Ait Atta (Tamazight: ⴰⵢⵜ ⵄⵟⵟⴰ, Ayt Ɛṭṭa) are a large Berber tribal confederation of South eastern Morocco, estimated to number about 130,000 as of 1960. They are divided into \"five fifths\" (\"khams khmas\"), all said to descend from the forty sons of their common ancestor Dadda Atta: these \"fifths\" are the Ayt Wallal, Ayt Wahlim, Ayt Isful, Ayt Yazza and Ayt Unbgi. They speak Central Atlas Tamazight. (\"Aït\" has the meaning of \"people of\" in the Tamazight language).\n\nThe Ait Atta originated as a political entity in the Jbel Saghro region in the 16th century with the founding of their traditional capital Iɣerm Amazdar. They subsequently expanded first northwards, becoming rivals of the Ait Yafelman, then southwards, taking control of oases in Tafilalt and the Draa River. By the 19th century their raids went as far as Touat (in modern-day Algeria, then belonging to the Moroccan Empire). They resisted the French entry into Morocco until 1933.\n\nAt each tribal level, the head was traditionally elected according to the principles of rotation and complementarity: each lineage took turns to occupy the position, but when it was a particular lineage's turn to hold the office, only members of other lineages could choose the candidate. In ordinary circumstances, power traditionally rested mainly with local councils of family heads, the \"ajmuɛ\", who decided cases according to customary law, \"izerf\". In the oases they conquered, the Ait Atta originally dominated a stratified society, where the \"haratin\" who worked the land were often forbidden from owning it, and needed a protection agreement with an Ait Atta patron; this stratification has considerably receded since Moroccan independence with the establishment of legal equality.\n"}
{"id": "8092345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8092345", "title": "Batin people", "text": "Batin people\n\nThe Batin are a sub-group of Malay people that inhabits the interior parts of Jambi province\n\nThere are approximately 72,000 Batin living in the interior of south-central Sumatra. They speak a dialect of the Jambi variant of Malay, but the accent is similar to Minangkabau language.\n\nThe Batin are predominantly Muslim, but have a matrilineal kinship system, which is similar to Minangkabau than to Jambi Malays.\n\n"}
{"id": "3395546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3395546", "title": "Battle of Hyderabad", "text": "Battle of Hyderabad\n\nThe Battle of Dubbo, sometime called as The Battle of Hyderabad was fought on 24 March 1843 between the forces of British East India Company and the Talpur Emirs of Sindh near Hyderabad, Sindh, Pakistan. A small British force, led by Captain James Outram, were attacked by the Talpurs and forced to make a fort of the British residence, which they successfully defended until they finally escaped to a waiting river steamer. After the British victory at Meeanee (also spelt Miani), Charles Napier continued his advance to the Indus River and attacked the Sindh capital of Hyderabad. Hyderabad was defended by 20,000 troops and baloch tribes under the command of His Highness Mir Sher Muhammad Khan Talpur \"Sher-i-Sindh\" and Hosh Mohammad sheedi. Charles Napier with a force of only 3,000 men but with artillery support stormed the city. During the battle Hosh Mohammad sheedi was killed and his forces routed; Talpurs resistance collapsed and Sindh came under British rule.\n\nThe British East India company became involved in the region of Sindh in Pakistan (at that time India), under the authority of Lord Ellenborough. In 1809, The Amirs of Sindh signed a treaty of \"friendship\" with the British, who established a local representative in the city of Hyderabad. With this arrival of British influence within the region, the Amirs of the Sindh lessened their internal struggles and turned instead to face this foreign presence. In 1838, the British representative had the Amirs sign a political residency treaty, allowing a British residency in the city of Hyderabad, which paved the way for further British involvement in the area. This same treaty also stipulated that the British would assist in negotiating the differences held between the rulers of the Sindh and those of the Punjab. Soon after, this would be taken a step further in the signing of a treaty pushed by the British that if needed British troops would be stationed permanently in the Sindh region for ‘the protection of the Amirs’. The Amirs however would have to pay for a British resident in Hyderabad, who would negotiate all relations between the British and the Amirs.\n\nThe British maintained various policies among the different Amirs, so as to please each individual and divide them by dealing with them separately. Captain James Outram was initially in charge of these dealings, and he made significant progress with the Amirs, who began confiding in him. As a result, Outram was able to attain power over the Amirs’ foreign policy as well as to station his troops in the province. Tensions began to rise when the British, who were involved in the politics in Afghanistan at the time, started interfering in the internal affairs of the Amirs as well as asking them for land which the British desired. The British were supporting Shah Shujah Durrani to take the throne in Afghanistan. The Amirs, however, resented this proposal, which added to their discontentment with the British occupations. The Amirs refused to aid Shah Shujah in Afghanistan and, siding more with the Shah of Persia, angered the British.\n\nThese relations took a turn for the worse when allegations were made of the Amirs communicating with the Shah of Persia, a rival of Shah Shujah and the British. It was after this incident that the British made it clear to the Amirs of the Sindh that any further cooperation with any people other than the British would lead to their destruction and their loss of rule in the Sindh. The distrust between the British and the Amirs of the Sindh continued to worsen, as both sides grew more and more suspicious of each other. Both sides continued on, feigning normality while both were aware of the other’s mistrust. As a result of their distrust, the British began to keep a close eye on Noor Mohammed Khan, one of the most prominent Amirs, at his residence in Hyderabad.\n\nIn 1841, the British appointed Charles Napier for service in India at the age of 59. The following year Napier arrived in Bombay on 26 August. Upon his arrival he was told of the situation that existed between the British and the Amirs, and that the Amirs were making trouble for the British. On 10 September 1842 Napier arrived in the Sindh. Under Napier, British control saw some charity on their occupation of Sindh and the territory of the Amirs. There was a belief that the British were, in fact, improving life for many in the area, as they saw the Amirs as overly wealthy rulers over a poor people. Napier was also very much of a mind to expand and tighten British control. Previously Outram had been in charge of negotiations between the British and the Amirs and had been very lenient towards the Amirs, which they appreciated greatly. Napier, on the other hand, not only longed for campaign, but was also very authoritarian with regard to the British rule in the area, and wanted to see full control by the British. Napier himself was charged by Ellenborough to look into the matter of the Amirs’ duplicity, to find evidence of their suspicious behaviour, and to compile it into a report which he would submit to Ellenborough. However, due to the fact that Napier was fresh to the Sindh and knew none of the language which would allow him to understand the pieces of alleged evidence against the Amirs, he was left with a difficult task.\n\nNapier’s 200-page report was submitted to Ellenborough, who received the it on November 3. The report was fairly inaccurate in its information about the Amirs, and Ellenborough sent his reply the day after as well as draft of a new treaty to be made with the Amirs. The speed of the reply, as well as the fact that it was accompanied by a drafted treaty, would indicate that Ellenborough had made his decision and the draft even before receiving Napier’s report. Ellenborough’s reply urged Napier to find convicting evidence of the actions of the Amirs - of which he had fairly little. His most incriminating piece of evidence was a letter supposedly written by the Amir, but which might easily have been a forgery, of which Napier was aware. As a result, Napier wrote to Ellenborough again, telling him of the small pieces of evidence that he had and asked for Ellenborough’s help in the situation. However, Ellenborough replied saying that he agreed with the verdict made by Napier - though he had not concretely stated one.\n\nIn February 1843, Amir Sodbar resided at Hyderabad Fort. While Sodbar was cooperative with the British, Napier was wary of him, and felt Sodbar was too much of a liability for the British, though the Amir was unaware of these feelings. As a result, when Napier asked Sodbar to send away Talpurs troops from the Fort, Amir Sodbar complied. Napier then took control of the fort himself, raising the British flag and stationing troops there. At first Napier was hesitant to hold Sodbar prisoner. However, after some of Sodbar’s men resisted the British, against Sodbar’s will, Napier decided to hold the Amir as a prisoner in Hyderabad Fort. Ellenborough gave orders for all treasure and articles of wealth to be seized from the Amir’s residence in Hyderabad, except that which the women chose to retain as their own jewelry or possessions. Collection agents were appointed to mediate the confiscation of the wealth. Some of the women made good use of this opportunity to take large amounts of wealth with them, while others, fearful of the British appointees, gave up much of their possessions. Around this time, Napier heard word of one of the Amirs, Sher Mohammad, mustering troops to resist the British forces. Napier was under the impression that Sher Mohammad would offer little resistance as he had very little funds or weapons, and was therefore surprised to hear that he had almost 30,000 troops ready to be brought against the British.\n\nUpon hearing of Sher Mohammad’s foreboding army, Napier immediately sent for reinforcements to be sent from Ferozepur and Sukkur. Around the same time, Talpur soldiers began to attack British supply routes along the Indus as well as those from Karachi to other British holdings. It was Napier’s intent to hold off battle as long as he could so as to get the most reinforcements that he could manage. He was sent a message from Sher Mohammad, promising the safety of Napier and his men if he would give up the fort and the confiscated wealth. In reply, Napier fired cannons from the fort as a sign that he would not surrender.\n\nOn 20 March, Sir Charles Napier went out to reconnotire Sher Mohammad’s position near Tando Ali Jam, finding the Amir’s army to be strong and holding excellent territory for defense. The next day, Napier received much needed reinforcements who arrived by ship, coming down the Indus from Sukkur.\n\nOn 24 March 1843 British troops, led by Sir Charles Napier, set out from Hyderabad to meet Sher Mohammad. After marching for some time, the British forces came upon the Amir’s army. While waiting for the rest of the British army, the Scinde Horse, one of Napier’s cavalry regiments, began to position themselves in a line opposite the Talpurs troops, who began to fire on the regiment. Napier himself had to do much of the positioning of the troops, as he lacked experienced commanders within his regiments. As each regiment made its way to the battle, and into position, the fighting grew fierce between both sides. The Talpur troops were well entrenched in their position and, due to the terrain, Napier was unable to get an idea of just how far the Talpur line was and how well it was supported. Soon the British had brought up artillery as well, which opened fire on the Talpur troops in their trenches. As the British approached the left side of Talpur forces, they found themselves faced with heavy attack from the trees, where a large number of troops had positioned themselves.\n\nAfter almost an hour of fire between both sides, Napier began to see an opportunity to break through a weak spot in the Amir’s lines. The Scinde Horse and 3rd Bombay Light Cavalry made a move to attack the left wing of the British troops and crashed into the Talpur before they could do significant damage. Meanwhile, on the right wing British soldiers charged the Talpur lines, piling over their trenches where the tightly packed Talpur's found difficulty in using their swords against the British. Seeing the desperation of the Talpur plight Amir Sher Mohammad left the battle at the suggestion of his commander, Hosh Mohammad Kambrani (Also called Hosh Muhammad Shidi), with hopes that he might obtain another chance at victory over the British. Hosh Muhammad, on the other hand, stayed behind with the troops, fighting the British to the death.\nThe British troops, seeing the centre of the Talpur line giving way, charged through the middle, dividing the Amir’s line. About this time, Napier was almost killed when a magazine exploded near by, killing some British soldiers near him, but sparing his life. One of Napier’s commanders, after breaking through the Talpurs left wing then left the field, perhaps aiding later in cutting off the Talpurs retreat. The Amir’s men, routed and disorganized, began to flee, and Napier with the Bengal Cavalry pressed on after them, cutting them off from escaping across the Indus. This strategic move on the part of the British stopped the Talpurs from regrouping with others and posing a threat to the British. With the Talpurs dispersed, Napier returned to his men who celebrated their victor with three cheers. This battle would be one of the last major efforts by Sher Mohammad to resist against the British, which ended on 14 June when British troops surprised the Amir and captured three of his cannons. Sher Mohammad himself escaped to Afghanistan.\n\nFollowing the British victory, and consequent annexation of the Sindh, troubles quickly arose. Captain James Outram, who had been sent back to England following his posting in the Sindh, began to plead the case of the Amirs in England. Coupled with the new victory, stark criticism arose in England towards both Ellenborough and Napier, who wrote, pleading their own case and arguing over the details of their dealings with the Amirs. The authorities in England were not pleased with the annexation of the Sindh, and had in mind to restore the territory to the Amirs. However, thinking that the process of returning the Sindh to its original owners would be difficult and that the forced resignation of Ellenborough and Napier would cause further criticism from England, the ownerships of the Sindh would remain with the British. The government in England did write to Napier and Ellenbourough, condemning the annexation and their actions. The actual province of Sindh was not as prosperous as Napier had hoped after capture, and for many years the British gained very little from its possession.\nThe Hyderabad war memorial details 39 EIC casualties suffered during the battle, naming:\nAnd summarising the casualties thus;\n\n"}
{"id": "21830383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21830383", "title": "C. Ashley Royal", "text": "C. Ashley Royal\n\nCharles Ashley Royal, known professionally as C. Ashley Royal, (born 1949) is a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Middle District of Georgia.\n\nBorn in Augusta, Georgia, Royal received an Artium Baccalaureus degree from the University of Georgia in 1971, a Juris Doctor from the University of Georgia School of Law in 1974, and a Master of Science degree from the University of Georgia in 1976. He was an assistant district attorney in the District Attorney's Office, Augusta Judicial Circuit, Georgia from 1974 to 1975. He was in private practice in Georgia in 1976, and was a public defender in Glynn County, Georgia, from 1976 to 1977, returning to private practice from 1977 to 2001.\n\nOn October 9, 2001, Royal was nominated by President George W. Bush to a seat on the United States District Court for the Middle District of Georgia vacated by Duross Fitzpatrick. Royal was confirmed by the United States Senate on December 20, 2001, and received his commission on December 21, 2001. He served as chief judge from 2009 to 2014. He assumed senior status on September 1, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "35249555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35249555", "title": "Chug language", "text": "Chug language\n\nChug (also called Chugpa or Duhumbi) is a Kho-Bwa language of West Kameng district, Arunachal Pradesh in India. It is closely related to Lish.\n\nChug is spoken only in Chug village (population 483 in 1971), located a few miles from Dirang (Blench & Post 2011:3).\n\nChug is spoken in Duhumbi village. Despite speaking languages closely related to Mey (Sherdukpen), the people identify as Monpa, not Mey.\n\nAccording to Lieberherr & Bodt (2017), Chug is spoken by 600 people in 3 main villages.\n\n"}
{"id": "33140918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33140918", "title": "Cloudburst (2011 film)", "text": "Cloudburst (2011 film)\n\nCloudburst is a 2011 Canadian-American comedy-drama film written and directed by Thom Fitzgerald and starring Olympia Dukakis and Brenda Fricker. It premiered at the Atlantic Film Festival in Halifax, Nova Scotia on September 16, 2011. The film is an adaptation of Fitzgerald's 2010 play of the same name.\n\nStella (Dukakis) and Dotty (Fricker) are a lesbian couple from Maine who embark on a Thelma and Louise-style road trip to Nova Scotia to get married after Dotty is moved into a nursing home by her granddaughter. Along the way they pick up Prentice (Ryan Doucette), a hitchhiker travelling home to Nova Scotia to visit his dying mother, and the three bond deeply as they travel.\n\n\"Cloudburst\" debuted as a stage play on April 8, 2010 at Plutonium Playhouse in Halifax, Nova Scotia. The play starred Carroll Godsman, Deborah Allen, Ryan Doucette, Marlane O'Brien, Michael McPhee and Amy Reitsma. The successful engagement ran for five weeks and closed on May 8, 2010. The production was nominated for several Merritt Awards, Nova Scotia's professional theatre awards, including nominations for Outstanding Production, Outstanding New Play (Fitzgerald) Outstanding Lead Actress (Allen), Outstanding Supporting Actor (Doucette), and Outstanding Set Design (Fitzgerald). Fitzgerald won the Merritt Award for Outstanding New Play.\n\nFitzgerald adapted his own stage play for the screen. The film version was produced by Doug Pettigrew and Fitzgerald, and executive produced by Sidney Kimmel, Vicki McCarty, William Jarblum, Trudy Pettigrew, Dana Warren and Shandi Mitchell. Fitzgerald had originally planned for the role of Dotty to be played by Joan Orenstein, but as she died while he was writing it, he cast Fricker instead. In press for the film, Fricker praised the screenplay, \"I was so moved by it. The love story was so beautiful I couldn't say no to it.\" Three members of the original stage cast reprised their roles: Ryan Doucette, Marlane O'Brien, and Michael McPhee.\n\nThe film debuted to an enthusiastic standing ovation on September 16, 2011 at the Atlantic Film Festival, where it won an Atlantic Canada Award for Best Screenplay and the People's Choice Audience Award for Best Film of the Festival. Its second festival appearance was October 20, 2011 at Cinéfest Sudbury International Film Festival, where it also won the Audience Choice Award for Best Film, and on October 23, 2011 the film was the opening night selection of the Edmonton International Film Festival where it won the Audience Award for Best Canadian Film. \"Cloudburst\" was very well received at film festivals from coast to coast in Canada, winning awards at festivals in Halifax, Montreal, Kingston, Edmonton, Victoria, and others.\n\n\"Cloudburst\" made its U.S. debut at the Palm Springs International Film Festival where it was named a Best of the Fest. The film made its Australian debut at the Breath of Fresh Air Tasmania Film Festival. It made its European debut as Opening Night Gala of the Dublin International Film Festival. It was also selected as Opening Night Gala of the British Film Institute London Lesbian and Gay Film Festival and as the closing-night film of Frameline 36.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31954572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31954572", "title": "Coco Levy Fund scam", "text": "Coco Levy Fund scam\n\nThe Coco Levy Fund Scam was a controversy in the 1970s and 80's in the Philippines involving the former President Ferdinand Marcos and his cronies. It is alleged that Marcos, Danding Cojuangco, Juan Ponce Enrile, and others conspired to tax coconut farmers, promising them the development of the coconut industry and a share of the investments, but on the contrary were used for personal profit particularly in the purchase of United Coconut Planters Bank (UCPB) and majority stake in San Miguel Corporation (SMC), to name a few.\n\nThe issue is still ongoing up to this day, with coconut farmers fighting for justice against the forced taxation, and a share of the Coco Levy Funds' investments. The Coco Levy Fund is estimated to have ballooned anywhere in the range of P100-150 billion in assets.\n\nThe recent Supreme Court decision awarding P85 million in coconut levy funds is the latest turn in the 40-year struggle to bring to poor coconut farmers the benefits of the Marcos-era levies gouged from them.\n\nThe Philippine coconut industry is responsible for 25% of the volume of the agricultural sector, and it is reportedly present in 68 of the 79 provinces of the country. Next to sugar, coconut products is also the leading agricultural export of the Philippines, with 37 products and by-products that were exported to 114 countries. The major exports are crude and refined oil, copra meal, desiccated coconut, activated carbon, and oleo-chemicals. About one-third of the Philippine population depends mainly on coconut production for its livelihood.\n\nThe legal beginnings of the levy could be found in the Republic Act 6260, the Coconut Investment Act, of 19 June 1971. The act calls for the creation of a Coconut Investment Fund and a Coconut Investment Company (CIC). The objective of the CIC was to: (a) To fully tap the potential of the coconut planters in order to maximize their production and give them greater responsibility in directing and developing the coconut industry; (b) to accelerate the growth of the coconut industry and other related coconut products from the raw material stage to the semi-finished and finally, the finished product stage; (c) to improve, develop and expand the marketing system; and (d) to ensure stable and better incomes for coconut farmers.\n\nOn 30 June 1973, President Marcos created the Philippine Coconut Authority through P.D. 232. The PCA's mandate was \"to promote accelerated growth and development of the coconut and other palm oils industry so that the benefits of such growth shall accrue to the greatest number, and to provide continued leadership and support in the integrated development of the industry.\" The said decree also consolidated the responsibilities and activities of the Coconut Coordinating Council (CCC), the Philippine Coconut Administration (PHILCOA), and the Philippine Coconut Research Institute (PHILCORIN), under one office.\n\nThe Coco Levy Case (Sandiganbayan Civil Case No. 33) is actually subdivided into a total of eight cases involving different parties and properties. Arguably the most important case is Case No. 33-F, which involves 51% of the shares of mega-conglomerate San Miguel Corporation. This majority stake at San Miguel has been further subdivided into three separate litigations, each of which reaching the Supreme Court in highly contentious proceedings.\nThe first case involved 4% of San Miguel shares, which, in the case of \"San Miguel Corporation vs. Sandiganbayan\", was awarded by the Supreme Court to the government. The second case, \"Republic of the Philippines vs. Sandiganbayan and Eduardo Cojuangco Jr.\", involved a 20% block that the Supreme Court, voting 7–4, awarded to Eduardo “Danding” Cojuangco. The most recent High Court pronouncement came early this year, \"Philippine Coconut Producers Federation, Inc. (COCOFED) vs. Republic of the Philippines\", where the Court, voting 11–0, declared that the remaining 27% of San Miguel is owned by the government. (Note: The 27% had been diluted to 24% due the government’s failure to subscribe to the increased authorized capital stock of San Miguel)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4356744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4356744", "title": "Dave Johnson (announcer)", "text": "Dave Johnson (announcer)\n\nDave Johnson is an American announcer and sportscaster, best known for his work in horse racing with ABC and NBC Sports and at various race tracks in New York and New Jersey. His signature line — \"And \"down\" the stretch they come!\" — is instantly recognizable throughout the sport, and often imitated by comedians, notably David Letterman.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1977, Johnson was the public address announcer for the tracks of the New York Racing Association. In 1977 he moved to the new Meadowlands Racetrack in New Jersey, calling both Thoroughbred and harness racing. He maintained his Meadowlands schedule into the early 21st century. Though he's no longer the regular voice at the Big M, he continues to do special appearances in his role as senior track announcer.\n\nFor ABC, Johnson called the Kentucky Derby from 1978 to 1980 and 1982 to 2000, and the Preakness Stakes and Belmont Stakes from 1982 to 2000.\n\nEven though Johnson's Triple Crown TV spot went to Tom Durkin when the rights shifted from ABC to NBC, he has continued to call the three spring classics for radio, on Premiere Radio Networks and Westwood One. Johnson has also worked on horse racing telecasts for ESPN.\n\nIn 2007, Johnson missed calling the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs for the first time since 1977, when the rights shifted from Westwood One to ESPN Radio. He was replaced on the broadcast by Churchill's public-address announcer, Luke Kruytbosch.\n\nJohnson has also done commercials, both on camera and voice-over, for Mobil Oil and various New York-area businesses. In 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010, Johnson made voice appearances on the \"Late Show with David Letterman,\" on the day prior to the running of the Kentucky Derby, for a sound bite of his signature phrase \"...and \"down\" the stretch they come!\"\n\nJohnson portrayed himself as the track announcer at Belmont Park in the film \"Ruffian,\" about the famous match race in 1975 in which the filly Ruffian broke down as she raced Foolish Pleasure.\n\n"}
{"id": "3017879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3017879", "title": "Demographics of Siberia", "text": "Demographics of Siberia\n\nGeographically, Siberia includes the Russian Urals, Siberian, and Far Eastern Federal Districts.\n\nSiberia has population density of only three persons per square kilometer. The oblasts with the highest population densities are Chelyabinsk Oblast and Kemerovo Oblast, with 41 and 30 persons per square km, respectively. Koryak Okrug has population density of less than 0.1 per square kilometer.\n\n\nExcluding territories of north-central Kazakhstan, Siberia has a total population of ca. 38.7 million (2005). The North Kazakhstan oblast has another 1.1 million inhabitants (2002).\nAbout 70% of Siberia's people live in cities. Novosibirsk is the largest city in Siberia, with a population of about 1.5 million, followed by Yekaterinburg (1.3 million, Urals), Omsk (1.1 million), Chelyabinsk (1.07 million, in the Urals), Krasnoyarsk (0.91 million), Barnaul (0.60 million), Irkutsk (0.59 million), Kemerovo (0.52 million), Tyumen (0.51 million), Tomsk (0.48 million), Nizhny Tagil (0.39 million, Urals), Kurgan (0.36 million), Ulan Ude (0.36 million), Chita (0.32 million).\n\nThe above count, however, by including the entire Urals Federal District, includes cities not usually considered part of Siberia, i.e. Yekaterinburg, Chelyabinsk, and Nizhny Tagil.\n\nThe vast majority of the Siberian population (over 95%) is Slavic and other Indo-European ethnicities, mainly Russians, Ukrainians, and Germans. Most non-Slavic groups are Turkic. Smaller linguistic groups are\nMongols (ca. 600,000 speakers)\nUralic (Samoyedic, Ugric; roughly 100,000 speakers), Manchu-Tungus (ca. 40,000 speakers), Chukotko-Kamchatkan (ca. 25,000 speakers), Eskimo–Aleut (some 2,000 speakers), the Yukaghir languages (highly endangered), and languages isolates Ket (but see below) and Nivkh.\n\nMongolian, Turkic and Manchu-Tungus languages are sometimes taken together under the term Altaic. At one time Uralic and Altaic were believed to form the Ural–Altaic group, though this theory has now been largely discarded. The proposed Uralo-Siberian family combines the Uralic family with the Yukaghir languages, Chukotko-Kamchatkan, and Eskimo–Aleut. These are more umbrella terms than accepted linguistic relationships. Ket has recently been linked with the Na-Dene languages into a Dené–Yeniseian group; while not universally accepted a broad consensus in favor of the proposal has emerged.\n\n"}
{"id": "20867787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20867787", "title": "Economic history of the world", "text": "Economic history of the world\n\nThe economic history of the world is a record of the economic activities (i.e. the production, distribution and consumption of goods and services) of all humans, spanning both recorded history and evidenced prehistory.\n\nThroughout the Paleolithic Era, which was between 500,000–10,000 BC, the primary socio-economic unit was the band (small kin group). Communication between bands occurred for the purposes of trading ideas, stories, tools, foods, animal skins, mates, and other commodities. Economic resources were constrained by typical ecosystem factors: density and replacement rates of edible flora and fauna, competition from other consumers (organisms) and climate. Throughout the Upper Paleolithic, humans both dispersed and adapted to a greater variety of environments, and also developed their technologies and behaviors to increase productivity in existing environments taking the global population to between 1 and 15 million.\n\nIt has been estimated that throughout prehistory, the world average GDP per capita was about $158 per annum (adjusted to 2013 dollars), and did not rise much until the Industrial Revolution.\n\nThis period began with the end of the last glacial period over 10,000 years ago involving the gradual domestication of plants and animals and the formation of settled communities at various times and places.\n\nWithin each tribe the activity of individuals was differentiated to specific activities, and the characteristic of some of these activities were limited by the resources naturally present and available from within each tribe's territory, creating specializations of skill. By the \"... division of labour and evolution of new crafts ...\" (Cameron p. 25) \"tribal units became naturally isolated through time from the over-all developments in skill and technique present within their neighbouring environment. To utilize artifacts made by tribes specializing in areas of production not present to other tribes, exchange and trade became necessary.\"\n\nThe first object or physical thing specifically used in a way similar enough to the modern definition of money, i.e. in exchange, was (probably) cattle (according to R.Davies).\nTrading in red ochre is attested in Swaziland, shell jewellery in the form of strung beads also dates back to this period, and had the basic attributes needed of commodity money. To organize production and to distribute goods and services among their populations, before market economies existed, people relied on tradition, top-down command, or community cooperation.\n\nThe city states of Sumer developed a trade and market economy based originally on the commodity money of the shekel which was a certain weight measure of barley, while the Babylonians and their city state neighbors later developed the earliest system of prices using a metric of various commodities that was fixed in a legal code. The early law codes from Sumer could be considered the first (written) financial law, and had many attributes still in use in the current price system today; such as codified quantities of money for business deals (interest rates), fines for 'wrongdoing', inheritance rules, laws concerning how private property is to be taxed or divided, etc. For a summary of the laws, see Babylonian law.\n\nTemples are history's first documented creditors at interest, beginning in Sumer in the third millennium. By charging interest and ground rent on their own assets and property, temples helped legitimize the idea of interest‑bearing debt and profit seeking in general. Later, while the temples no longer included the handicraft workshops which characterized third‑millennium Mesopotamia, in their embassy functions they legitimized profit‑seeking trade, as well as by being a major beneficiary.\n\nIndia and China, the two largest economies respectively, accounted for more than half the size of the world economy. Despite the high GDP, these nations being major population centers, did not have significantly higher GDP per capita.\n\nThe two major changes in commercial activity due to expedition known by historical recounting, are those led by Alexander the Great, which facilitated multi-national trade, and the conquest to empire of Caesar (a Roman) of France and Britain.\n\nDuring the time of the trade of the Occident with Rome, Egypt was the wealthiest of all places within the Roman Empire. The merchants of Rome acquired produce from Persia through Egypt, by way of the port of Berenice, and subsequently the Nile.\n\nAccording to Herodotus, and most modern scholars, the Lydians were the first people to introduce the use of gold and silver coin. It is thought that these first stamped coins were minted around 650–600 BC. A stater coin was made in the stater (trite) denomination. To complement the stater, fractions were made: the trite (third), the hekte (sixth), and so forth in lower denominations.\n\nThe first economist (at least from within opinion generated by the evidence of extant writings) is considered to be Hesiod, by the fact of his having written on the fundamental subject of the scarcity of resources, in \"Works and Days\".\n\nThe Arthashastra, an Indian work that includes sections on political economy, was composed between the 2nd and 3rd centuries BCE, and is often credited to the Indian thinker Chanakya.\n\nGreek and Roman thinkers made various economic observations, especially Aristotle and Xenophon. Many other Greek writings show understanding of sophisticated economic concepts. For instance, a form of Gresham’s Law is presented in Aristophanes’ Frogs.\n\nBryson of Heraclea was a neo-platonic who is cited as having heavily influenced early Muslim economic scholarship.\n\nIn the Middle Ages the world economy slowly expanded with the increase of population and trade. The silk road was used for trading between Europe, Central Asia and China. During the early period of the Middle Ages, Europe was an economic backwater, however, by the later Medieval period rich trading cities in Italy emerged, creating the first modern accounting and finance systems.\n\nThe first banknotes were used in Tang dynasty China in the ninth century (with expanded use during the Song dynasty).\n\nThe Early modern era was a time of mercantilism, nationalism, and international trade. The waning of Feudalism saw new national economic frameworks begin to be strengthened. After the voyages of Christopher Columbus et al. opened up new opportunities for trade with the New World and Asia, newly-powerful monarchies wanted a more powerful military state to boost their status. Mercantilism was a political movement and an economic theory that advocated the use of the state's military power to ensure that local markets and supply sources were protected.\n\nThe first banknote in Europe was issued by Stockholms Banco in 1661.\n\nEconomic history as it relates to economic growth in the modern sense first occurred during the Industrial Revolution in Europe, due to high amounts of energy conversion taking place.\n\nEconomic growth spread to all regions of the world during the twentieth century, when world GDP per capita quintupled. The highest growth occurred in the 1960s during post-war reconstruction.\nSome increase in the volume of international trade is due to the reclassification of within-country trade to international trade – because of increasing number of countries and resulting changes in national boundaries. The effect is small.\n\nIn particular, shipping containers revolutionized trade in the second half of the century, by making it cheaper to transport goods, especially internationally.\n\nThe world economy was predicted to shrink by between 0.5% and 1.0% in 2009, the first global contraction in 60 years. In its forecast the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said that developed countries will suffer \"deep recession\".\n\n"}
{"id": "45230011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45230011", "title": "Ferguson Syllabus", "text": "Ferguson Syllabus\n\nIn the wake of civil unrest and protests in Ferguson, Missouri, Professor Marcia Chatelain of Georgetown University created the #FergusonSyllabus Twitter campaign. Ferguson syllabus provides a space for educators to discuss integrating the events happening in Ferguson into classrooms.\n\nOn August 9, 2014 an unarmed and noncompliant black teenager, Michael Brown, was fatally shot by white police officer Darren Wilson in Ferguson, Missouri. The disputed details of Brown’s death sparked protests and civil unrest in Ferguson, across the United States, and internationally. The dispute arose from dueling narratives of why and how the altercation occurred. Officer Wilson and eyewitnesses argued different accounts of what happened. This confusion, along with aggressive policing following Brown’s death, led to heated debate and examination of the relationship between policing practices and communities of color. The protests and civil unrest continued on November 24, 2014 after a St. Louis grand jury found Darren Wilson not guilty of criminal charges. After the verdict was announced protests flared in Ferguson and in nearly every major U.S. city. On November 29, 2014, Darren Wilson resigned from the Ferguson Police Department with no severance or benefits. Although over $500,000 was raised by Wilson’s supporters via crowdfunding. \n\nOn March 4, 2015 The United States Department of Justice announced the findings of the its two civil rights investigations into the Ferguson Police Department. The Justice Department found that the Ferguson Police Department “engaged in a pattern or practice of conduct that violates the First, Fourth, and 14th Amendments of the Constitution.” In Ferguson—a city with a population of 21,000–16,000 people have outstanding arrest warrants, meaning that they are currently actively wanted by the police. In other words, if you were to take four people at random, the Ferguson police would consider three of them fugitives. The Justice Department also stated, “That the evidence examined in its independent, federal investigation into the fatal shooting of Michael Brown does not support federal civil rights charges against Ferguson Police Officer Darren Wilson.” \n\nFerguson syllabus is a crowdsourced syllabus about race, African American history, civil rights, and policing. Ferguson syllabus was created as a way to integrate conversations of what happened in Ferguson into classrooms. Dr. Marcia Chatelain, graduate from University of Missouri-Columbia and assistant professor of history at Georgetown University, created the hashtag #fergusonsyllabus so that educators could have a platform to discuss the national crisis in Ferguson, Missouri. Chatelain describes it as, “What emerged was a small call for community across the sometimes impersonal and expansive digital world.” \n\nChatelain contacted her colleagues in and across her discipline to use Twitter as a mechanism to recommend texts, collaborate on conversation starters, and inspire dialogue about some aspect of the Ferguson events. Chatelain argues, “The academy has never owned movements, and youth outside of colleges longed for intelligent questions, honest reflection, and inspiration moving forward.\" Collegiate professors, high school teachers, early education specialists, guidance counselors and middle-school instructors wanted ideas on how to hold purposeful dialogues around this issue. #FergusonSyllabus has now become a virtual movement used to frame how struggle has shaped American history, infused works of art and literature, and given voice to those most hurt by the failures of leadership, capitalism, and democracy.\n\nFreedom Ferguson Library is a campaign asking people who benefited from learning from the Ferguson syllabus to consider donating an item to an under-resourced school, prison literacy program, or community center. Professor Marcia Chatelain has asked that people write (or make a nameplate) with a message including the words, Ferguson Freedom Library. The expression Freedom Library comes from the Freedom Summer Project of 1964. Civil rights activists created Freedom Schools to educate children and adults. \n\nInspired by the #FergusonSyllabus, actors and playwrights crowdsourced a list from the Ferguson Moment Facebook group, asking specifically for plays that provide opportunities for conversation around this particular historical moment: the shooting of Michael Brown and the response to that shooting by citizens, law enforcement and the justice system, in Ferguson and in other places like it around the nation. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37781958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37781958", "title": "Feudalism in the Holy Roman Empire", "text": "Feudalism in the Holy Roman Empire\n\nFeudalism in the Holy Roman Empire was a politico-economic system of relationships between liege lords and enfeoffed vassals (or feudatories) that formed the basis of the social structure within the Holy Roman Empire during the High Middle Ages. In German the system is variously referred to \"Lehnswesen\", \"Feudalwesen\" or \"Benefizialwesen\".\n\nFeudalism in Europe emerged in the Early Middle Ages, based on Roman clientship and the Germanic social hierarchy of lords and retainers. It obliged the feudatory to render personal services to the lord. These included e. g. holding his stirrup, joining him on festive occasions and service as a cupbearer at the banquet table. Both pledged mutual loyalty: the lord to \"shelter and protect\", the vassal to \"help and advise\". Furthermore, feudal lord and vassal were bound to mutually respect one another, i.e. the lord could not, by law, beat his vassal, humiliate or lay hands on his wife or daughter.\n\nThe highest liege lord was the sovereign, the king or duke, who granted fiefs to his princes. In turn, they could award fiefs to other nobles, who wanted to be enfeoffed by them and who were often subordinate to the liege lord in the aristocratic hierarchy.\n\nA fief (also fee, feu, feud, tenure or fiefdom, , , \"feodum\" or \"beneficium\") was understood to be a thing (land, property), which its owner, the liege lord (\"Lehnsherr\"), had transferred to the hereditary ownership of the beneficiary on the basis of mutual loyalty, with the proviso that it would return to the lord under certain circumstances.\n\nEnfeoffment gave the vassal extensive, hereditary usufruct of the fief, founded and maintained on a relationship of mutual loyalty between the lord and the beneficiary. The Latin word \"beneficum\" implied, not only the actual estate or property, the fief - in Latin usually called the \"feodum\" - but also the associated legal relationship.\n\nThe owner was the so-called liege lord or feudal lord (German: Lehnsherr \"Lehnsgeber\"; Latin: \"dominus feudi\", \"senior\"), who was usually the territorial lord or reigning monarch. The beneficiary was his vassal, liegeman or feudatory (German: Vasall, \"Lehnsmann\", \"Knecht\", \"Lehenempfänger\" or \"Lehensträger\"; Latin: \"vassus\" or \"vasallus\"). Both parties swore an oath of fealty (Lehnseid) to one another. The rights conferred on the vassal were so similar to actual possession that it was described as beneficial ownership (\"dominium utile\"), whereas the rights of the lord were referred to as direct ownership (\"dominium directum\").\n\nThe fief (German: \"Lehen\" or Lehnsgut) usually comprised an estate or a complex of estates, but also specified rights of use and rights of taxation or duties.\n\nLinguistically the term \"Lehen\" is connected with the word \"leihen\", to lend or loan, and meant something like \"loaned property\" (c.f. the modern German \"Darlehen\", a loan), whilst the word \"feudum\", which some etymologists suggest comes from the Latin \"fides\" (loyalty), is more likely to be derived from the Old High German \"feo\", which meant \"Vieh\" i.e. \"cattle\", but later generally meant \"goods\" or \"property\".\n\nThe opposite of a fief was the freehold, allod or \"allodium\", which roughly corresponds to the present freehold estate.\n\nAn institution during the transition from feudal states to what is now the free ownership of property, was the \"allodifizierte Lehen\" (\"allodified fief\"), a fief in which the feudal lord gave up direct ownership - usually in return for the payment of compensation or an allodified rent (\"Allodifikationsrenten\") - but the vassal's ownership of the fief with an agreed agnatic succession - resembling a family entailed estate (\"Familienfideikommiß\") - remained in place.\n\nThere were numerous different types of feudal arrangement depending on regional tradition and the nature of feudal lordship (secular or ecclesiastical/monastic). The best-known of these were:\n\n\nThe king gave estates or appointments (\"Ämter\") to upper or crown vassals (\"Kronvasallen\"), who, in turn, passed them on to lower vassals (\"Untervasallen\"). The lower vassals would then hire the land to be cultivated by unfree farmers. There were no feudal relationships between farmers and the lower vassals.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages another structure developed in Germany, the so-called \"Heerschildordnung\", a medieval feudal hierarchy:\n\n\nInitially, only those of knightly birth were entitled to be enfeoffed, i.e. free knights who could bear arms and were in full possession of their title. Later, unfree ministeriales also rose to the knighthood. Vassalage consisted mainly of military campaigns (military service) and court duty (the presence of vassals at the court in order to offer advice). From court service, the state and imperial diets emerged. The fief was only given to the vassal to utilize; later, the vassal also became a sub-owner, but the feudal lord always retained the rights to this office. Eventually, the heritability of fiefs evolved later, but the landowner nevertheless remain the liege lord.\n\nIn Late Antiquity, out of the Roman system of patronage (or clientage) and the clan (\"Sippe\") relationships of the Migration Period (\"Völkerwanderungszeit\") (Germanic kingdoms on Roman soil), relations between rulers and their subjects developed into a prevailing consensus that was commonplace and accepted.\n\nIn Roman culture, it was common for a patron (a wealthy Roman citizen) to automatically retain his freed slaves in a dependent relationship, known as patronage. In some cases, populations of conquered areas would become clients of the general who conquered the area. This required the client to accompany his patron to war and protect him if the latter so wished, to accompany him to court as a vocal supporter and, if the patron held public office, to act as his assistant and to accompany him on representational events in public.\n\nIn return, the patron had to ensure the legal and practical support of his client in all aspects of life. A Roman citizen, a non-Roman and even entire tribes in the Roman Empire could have a patron-client relationship.\n\nIn Late Antiquity, this form of relationship was increasingly adopted in rural areas, because the Roman nomenklatura increasingly saw their vast estates (\"Latifundia\") as their refuge and also as economically important pillars, over which they sometimes even had their own jurisdiction and fortified prisons.\nClients at that time were usually bound to their patrons through the allocation of land.\n\nDuring the latter years of the period of clan society with Germanic kingdoms on Roman soil, it was common for all the land to belong to the king. Only he could distribute land to his subjects. These subjects were usually family members, warriors who had performed outstanding feats, and noblemen. This land did not become the property of the subject, but was handed over to him only \"in persona\". On the death of king or vassal, the land was de facto returned to the new king. Over time, a practice developed that the person enfeoffed with the land, together with his family, became the beneficiaries of the fief and remained permanently bound to it. Upon the death of one party, a new act of homage (\"Lehnseid\"), a formal legal ceremony, had to take place. These transitions were fluid and there were exceptions to the practice of enfeoffment.\n\nThe vassal often enfeoffed the estate, usually divided into smaller parcels of land, to other lesser vassals, who in turn had to swear fealty to him. In return for the lease of land, the king could demand loyalty and allegiance from the vassal and his sub-vassals. This means that, in the event of war, they had to provide soldiers and assistance, or if money ran short or a ransom was needed, they were expected to support the king.\n\nThe Roman patron-client relationship and the early clan-based feudal relationship in the Germanic kingdoms merged during the early Middle Ages into the feudal law, or \"Lehnsrecht\", a legal and social set of relationships, which effectively formed a pyramid with the king at the top.\n\nThe enforcement of \"Lehnsrecht\" is associated with the reduced circulation of money in the Late Antiquity and Early Medieval periods. Money could not bind a vassal to a king, only land. Unlike money, this was plentiful.\n\nEven kings (see Richard the Lionheart - compulsory allegiance) and at least in the early Middle Ages, the clergy (see Ottonian-Salian imperial church system) could be vassals of a king or another king.\n\nUnder the feudal system, various legal institutions came together during the Carolingian period that had previously existed independently. These institutions were:\n\nIt was from the combination of these institutions, especially as more and more lords achieved high social position, that the feudal system emerged.\nThe \"handgang\", which together with the oath of loyalty (\"Treueid\"), became referred to as \"homagium\" (Latin), \"homage\" (French), or \"mannschaft\" (German), became the decisive legal device until well into the 12th century. Not until the spread of the system of legal deeds was the \"handgang\" dropped from the oath of allegiance, which was better recorded in writing.\n\nCommendations were still carried out at all levels. In lower classes they were based on the manorial system (\"Grundherrschaft\"), at the high levels on feudalism (\"Lehnswesen\").\n\nThe award of fiefs often replaced the remuneration for work. This was necessary because the monetary system necessary to make regular payments was still far too underdeveloped during the early Middle Ages.\n\nAs the services of the vassal specifically included military service, under the Frankish monarchy the feudal system was for centuries the basis of the army as well as the social organization of the Holy Roman Empire. \n\nIt was not only the king who acquired vassals in this way. He was soon imitated by secular and ecclesiastical magnates. Gradually, the principle of the heritability of fiefs was established along with the admissibility of passing them on as \"Afterlehen\" to sub-vassals. The latter were also declared as heritable in 1037 by Conrad II in the \"constitutio de feudis\". So it came to pass that as early as the 12th century, all duchies and counties were awarded as fiefs.\n\nWithin each of these ecclesiastical and secular territories, however, there was a variety of types of feudalism. Not until the 13th century, did the importance of the feudal system decline, because instead of vassals (\"Vassallen\"), liegemen (\"Dienstmannen\") - well-educated men (c.f. the development of the university system) - were appointed. The kings encouraged this development, for political reasons, and so strengthened territorial lordship (\"Landesherrschaft\"), which replaced the feudal system empire-wide. This strengthening of territorial rulers had an impact that could not be reversed, so that the power of the various principalities did not reduce, unlike the situation in France and England.\n\nIn England, feudal ties were abolished as early as the Revolution of 1649, and then by an express decree by Charles II in 1660. In France they were abolished by the decisions of the National Assembly on 4 and 5 August 1789. In Germany, the dissolution of feudal associations (\"Lehnsverband\") was a long process. Legally, it was abolished \"inter alia\" by the Confederation of the Rhine acts, in the Final Recess of the Reichsdeputation and the Frankfurt Constitution of 1849. One of the last fiefs was awarded in 1835, when the ailing Count Friedrich Wilhelm von Schlitz, known as Görtz, was enfeoffed with the spring at Salzschlirf and began to excavate it again. Those fiefs still in existence in the 20th century were abolished in 1947 by an Allied Control Council edict.\n\nIn general, the vassal (\"Lehnsmann\") was granted land or free houses (\"Freihäuser\") in return for his services. He could also provide services at the lord's residence and be accommodated there. Most of these so-called \"servi non cassati\" were given a fief as soon as one became available.\n\nOfficial positions (\"Ämter\") and sovereign rights over a particular territory (feudal regalia) could be awarded as a fief. It was in this way that the House of Thurn and Taxis received its Postlehen or postal service rights. In addition, there were numerous enfeoffments of church rights, church fiefs (\"Stifte\" or \"feudal ecclesiastica\") and enfeoffments of foundations associated with an altar (\"feudum altaragli\"). Also, cash payments from the royal treasury or profits from certain duties could be awarded as a fief.\n\nFeoffment (\"constitutio feudi, infeudatio\") involved the vassal being formally seized of his fief through a commendation ceremony. In Frankish times, commendation centered around the so-called handclasping ceremony (\"Handgang\"): the vassal clasped his hands together and placed them in the hands of his lord, who then clasped his hands around those of his vassal. He thereby symbolically received the protection of his new superior. From the end of the 9th century, this act was expanded to include an oath of allegiance, which was usually sworn on a religious relic. The oath served to affirm the binding of the liegeman to his liege, but emphasized that the vassal had not lost his status as a free knight, because only the free could be bound by oath.\n\nIn the 11th century, the commendation ceremony required the liegeman to pay homage (\"homagium\" or \"Mannschaft\"), which involved the handclasping ceremony as well as a declaration of intent. The liege lord could also make a declaration, but he would often forego this. This was followed by the loyalty oath and sometimes a kiss. Since, in the Middle Ages, a binding legal act could be constituted by a symbolic action, an object was symbolically handed over in a process known as livery of seizin and could be a staff or a banner (called a \"Fahnenlehn\"). The emperor could also symbolically hand over his sceptre (in the so-called \"Zepterlehen\"). As literacy rose, a charter of feoffment was also made out as part of the act that, over time, listed the feoffed estate and benefits that the vassal was to receive in ever increasing detail.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, an entry fee was demanded for feoffment, which was often based on the fief's annual income.\n\nThe fief (benefice) that the vassal received could be owned by the lord or have been granted in fee by another. Sometimes the vassal even sold or gifted over his possessions to the lord (\"Lehnsauftragung\") and then received it back as a fief (\"oblatio feudi\"). This was usually done in the hope that the liege lord could defend his estate better in the event of a dispute in the field or at court. The lord purchased or accepted the gift because he might have the intention or hope, for example, of merging unrelated fiefdoms into a whole and thus extending his sphere of influence, for example, in terms of jurisdiction, or the appointment of clergy.\n\nFrom the 11th century, the obligations of vassals were usually described as \"auxilium et consilium\" (help and advice). \"Auxilium\" usually implied assistance in terms of military service that the vassal had to render. This could be unlimited, i.e. the vassal had to assist his lord in every conflict, or it could be limited in time, space and in the number of troops to be raised. With the advent of the mercenaries, the reliance on vassals became less important and their service increasingly took the form of administration and court duties. \"Consilium\" meant primarily the obligation to appear at imperial assemblies or \"Hoftage\". Vassals whose feudal lord was not the king took part in the councils of their liege lords. They also had to administer justice over their subjects in the name of their master.\n\nThe vassal could even be required to pay money; though perhaps not to the extent of England, where military service became a requirement for war funds and the English king used the money to pay for his mercenaries. Monetary payments were also required in other cases, such as to pay a ransom for a captive lord, for the accolade of his eldest son, for the dowry of his eldest daughter, or for a journey to the Holy Land.\n\nThe feudal lord could also demand recompense (\"Lehnserneuerung\" or \"renovatio investiturae\") from his vassals if they lost their fief or upon changes of lord - changes of ruler at any level, local lord, prince or king (known as \"Herrenfall, Hauptfall, Thronfall\") - as well as changes of vassal (known as \"Lehnsfall, Vasallenfall\" or \"Mannfall, Nebenfall\"). The latter had to submit a written application (\"Lehnsmutung\") within a year and a day (actually 1 year, 6 weeks, 3 days) and ask for the renewal of his investiture, but this term could be extended by a decree from the lord (\"Lehnsindult\").\n\nDepending on local law, the vassal might be liable, apart from the fee, for the renewal of the enfeoffment (called the \"Schreibschilling\" or \"Lehnstaxe\"), to pay a special tax (the \"Laudemium, Lehnsgeld, Lehnsware\" or \"Handlohn\"). Finally, in the event of a felony by the vassal, the lord could confiscate the fief under the so-called \"Privationsklage\" action or step in to prevent the deterioration of the estate, if necessary, by legal means. He could also assert his claim to ownership at any time against any unauthorized third parties.\n\nThe duties of the lords were less precisely defined, however, they were largely discharged on the handover of the fief. The vassal always had a claim to loyalty from his lord (\"Lehnsprotektion\") and a breach of that by the lord meant the loss of his sovereignty over his vassal. The vassal had the \"right of use\" of the fief (the object of enfeoffment or \"Lehnsobjekt\"). The lord also had to represent his vassals in court.\n\nOriginally, a lord-vassal tie (\"Lehnsbindung\") was a lifelong, faithful relationship that could end only on death. It was also inconceivable that someone could be the vassal of more than one lord. In fact, multiple vassalage soon emerged and loosened the duty of loyalty for the liegeman (\"Lehnsmann\") considerably. Also, the opportunity to inherit a fief diminished the ability of the lord to intervene and loosened the personal loyalty of liegemen. Over time, the importance of fiefdoms increased more and more, whilst the duty of loyalty faded increasingly into the background. In the end, a fief was simply an estate for which the heir had to perform a certain ceremony.\n\nIn summary, the feudal system was based on two main components - the personal and the material elements.\n\nPersonal element:\nThe lord and vassal committed themselves to mutual loyalty. The visible expression of this commitment was the act of the vassal placing his hands in those of his lord (\"handgang\" - comparable with today's handshake, except that the \"handgang\" symbolized a hierarchical relation).\n\nMaterial element:\nBased on the pledge of loyalty between them, the lord made land available to the vassal. The vassal was obliged, in return, to render various services and taxes.\n\nAn echo of the old feudal system in Europe is found in family names such as Lehner, Lechner, Lehmann, Lehle, Horrigan and Lenherr as well as in numerous house and even place names, that even today have the term \"Lehen\" in the names (see a list at Lehen (disambiguation)).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11874765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11874765", "title": "Goodwill tour", "text": "Goodwill tour\n\nA goodwill tour is a tour by someone or something famous to a series of places, with the purpose of expressing benevolent interest or concern for a group of people or a region, improving or maintaining a relationship between parties, and exhibiting the item or person to places visited.\n\nGoodwill tours are meant to be friendly; however, in some cases, they may be intimidating to the people or the government at the place visited. At the same time, a visit by a goodwill tour might be used as a way of “reminding” the place and government visited of a friendship previously established or assumed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50759152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50759152", "title": "Goyim riders", "text": "Goyim riders\n\nGoyim riders refers to members of the Goyim Motorcycle Association (Hungarian: Gój Motoros Egyesület), an anti-Gypsy and antisemitic Hungarian ultra-nationalist political movement.\n\nThe name is rooted in the Biblical Hebrew word goy meaning \"a people or \"a nation.\" A term that shifted in Yiddish and modern Hebrew to refer to a non-Jew, sometimes pejoratively. A \"a series of philological essays in the premier weekly of the Hungarian liberal literati, Élet és Irodalom (Life and Literature)\" by \"distinguished linguists,\" discussed the reversal in usage by the Goyim riders which turned the out-group definition into an in-group definition.\n\nThe group was informally established by 2000, and organized as a non-profit civic association in 2006.\n\nThe group is prosperous, as the ability to afford an expensive, often imported, motorcycle is beyond the means of most working-class Hungarians, and includes prominent figures in business and sports.\n\nThe group's emblem shows an armed Magyar warrior shooting arrows as he rides a powerful motorcycle, the figure of the warrior superimposed on a map of the pre-World War I Kingdom of Hungary, including the lands lost when Hungary lost that war.\n\nThe riders organize group rides through towns where Gypsys are accused of committing crimes, rides that are non-violent but perceived as veiled threats.\n\nIn 2013 a controversy arose concerning plans by to hold a ride on Holocaust Memorial Day under the banner of \"Step on the gas!\". This less than subtle attempt at provocation was soon condemned by the Fidesz party as well as the Goyim riders, the latter were originally believed to have been the driving force behind the initiative which was described as \"tasteless\".\n"}
{"id": "1612074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1612074", "title": "Harmonious Society", "text": "Harmonious Society\n\nThe Harmonious Society () has been a socioeconomic vision in China.\n\nThe concept of social harmony dates back to ancient China, to the time of Confucius. As a result, the philosophy has also been characterized as a form of New Confucianism. In modern times, it developed into a key feature of General Secretary Hu Jintao's signature ideology of the Scientific Development Concept developed in the mid-2000s, being re-introduced by the Hu–Wen Administration during the 2005 National People's Congress.\n\nThe philosophy is recognized as a response to the increasing social injustice and inequality emerging in mainland Chinese society as a result of unchecked economic growth, which has led to social conflict. The governing philosophy was therefore shifted around economic growth to overall societal balance and harmony. Along with a moderately prosperous society, it was set to be one of the national goals for the ruling vanguard Communist Party.\n\nThe promotion of the \"Harmonious Society\" demonstrated that Hu Jintao's ruling philosophy had departed from that of his predecessors. Near the end of his tenure in 2011, Hu appeared to extend the ideology to an international dimension, with a focus on the international peace and cooperation, which is said to lead to a \"harmonious world\" whereas the administration of Hu's successor, Xi Jinping, has used the philosophy more sparingly, likely in favor of emphasizing his vision of the Chinese Dream.\n\nThe concept of harmony in Chinese culture comes from music. During the Eastern Zhou Dynasty, discussion of music flourished under Confucius and the school of thoughts he created, Confucianism. Confucianism played a key part in the formulation of the earliest form of Chinese music, Qin. Qin music illustrates the concept of harmony through its techniques such as the level of pressure and the speed of tempo, which symbolize Yin and Yang and the different temperature in the four seasons. The moderate unison of sounds maintains the perfect order and managing these opposing elements into a moderate piece of musical work is considered the best sound. Furthermore, one of the most influential works by Ru Jia (otherwise known as Book of Music), reads, \"When the early rulers formed the li [rituals] and yue [music] their purpose was not to satisfy the mouth, stomach, ear and eye, but rather to teach the people to moderate their likes and hates, and bring them back to the correct direction in life.\" Music, under Confucian concepts, has the power to transform people to become more civilized and the goal of music is to create balance within individuals, nature and society. Leading people \"back to the correct direction in life\" not only signifies the guiding role of music, but also emphasizes on the power of the rulers, \"The correct 'mood' was set by the chief of state, the emperor, the son of Heaven.\" The power of the rulers reflects a fundamental theme in Chinese civilization. The State, or the ruling government, has the special role of taking care of the people; however, what distinguishes the Chinese ruling government from other ruling governments is the respectful attitude of the citizens, who regard the government as part of their family. In fact, the ruling government is \"the head of the family, the patriarch.\" Therefore, the Chinese look to the government for guidance as if they are listening to their father who, according to Chinese tradition, enjoys high reverence from the rest of the family. Furthermore, \"still another tradition that supports state control of music is the Chinese expectation of a verbal 'message.'\" A \"verbal message\" is the underlying meaning behind people's words. In order to get to the \"verbal message,\" one needs to read into words and ask oneself what the desired or expected response would be. The Chinese tradition of reading into words makes it easier for the government, or \"the father,\" who possesses more attention and respect, to pass down its wishes through songs.\n\nThe \"Socialist Harmonious Society\" concept represents a new direction of Chinese communist leadership that signified the transition between Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao. Although on the surface, \"socialist harmonious society\" seems benign, many scholars believe that General Secretary Hu has a vision for a deeper reform of the political system in China. In addition, the idea of scientific development stresses on scientific discovery and technological advance, engines for sustainable growth in the long run. Sustainable growth is a concept in macroeconomics that signifies GDP at potential (i.e. all that is produced is being consumed and there is no cyclical unemployment) for years to come.\n\nIn addition, the Socialist Harmonious Society concept was a response to the problem of social inequality/ wealth gap, which if not dealt with immediately, could lead to social unrest and even turmoil. A key reason contributing to a widening wealth gap was social injustice, which features collusion between entrepreneurs and officials. Through collusion, entrepreneurs were able to buy land from farmers and then sell it at high prices. Furthermore, with the protection of local officials, private coal mine owners ignored safety regulations to cut production costs. As a result, thousands of miners are killed in accidents. Since the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, the leadership has been extremely sensitive about maintaining stability. General Secretary Hu's focus on stability and openness is the central model addressed in the book \"The J Curve: A New Way to Understand Why Nations Rise and Fall\" by Ian Bremmer. According to Bremmer, the Chinese government is trying carefully to avoid instability by jumping from a controlled social environment on one end to complete openness on the other. The \"J Curve\" model is applicable to the political development of most nations and presents a choice between stability and openness. The concept of \"Socialist Harmonious Society\" is said to include both elements of the model. Hence, Hu's \"socialist harmonious society\" has an underlying message of establishing political reform as well as safeguarding social justice and equality.\n\nHu Jintao visited the US in early 2011, two years before he stepped down as the General Secretary of the Communist Party (the paramount leader). One of the key messages of his visit was the idea of peace and cooperation: \"China and the United States have major influence in international affairs and shoulder important responsibilities in upholding world peace and promoting common development.\" In addition to attending state dinners, President Hu visited the US China Business Council, a Chinese-owned auto parts plant in Ohio, and Walter Payton College Preparatory High School in Chicago/Confucius Institute of Chicago. When asked about the differences between the US and China at Walter Payton Prep, Hu Jintao responded, \"China and the US have different histories, culture, social systems and levels of development, but their peoples are peace-loving and in pursuit of growth. I hope that the friendship between our two nations will last forever.\" With few agendas at hand before his retirement, Hu Jintao brought to America a concept of harmony that is based on peace, cooperation and \"soft power\" exchanges. Soft power is a concept developed by Joseph Nye to describe the ability to attract and cooperate rather than using coercion, force or money as a means of persuasion. The means of persuasion by using force or money, on the other hand, is called hard power. Nye, as a past Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs in the Clinton Administration, stresses on the combination of soft power and hard power, which he calls smart power. Nye believes that the using of smart power in today's dynamic international relations will be highly effective. Now looking back at President Hu's visit to US and linking it with the multidimensional rise of Chinese influence on the international stage, one can discover the subtle similarity between Chinese and American foreign policies.\n\nIn addition to the utilization of smart power, the Chinese leader also understands the concept of \"Shadow of the Future\": At the high school, Hu Jintao told the students, \"The young are the future of a nation and the hopes of the world. The prospects of China-US relations are in the hands of the young people of the two countries.\" \"Shadow of the Future\" is a concept in Joseph Nye's book, \"Understanding Global Conflict and Cooperation: An Introduction to Theory and History.\" The key to Shadow of the Future is to lengthen the period of peace and cooperation and to reduce fear of power conflicts. One of the paramount reasons that contributes to the Peloponnesian War, according to Thucydides, is \"the growth of Athenian power and the fear which this caused in Sparta.\" Hu's perspective claims to try to reduce the deadly psychological feeling in the nature of humans as well as nations.\n\nOn the other hand, the American foreign policy goes beyond the message of peace, understanding and cooperation. As the world's superpower, the United States has a tough stance on the rise of China. The appropriateness of such a tough stance, nevertheless, is debatable given the political environment at the time of American elections. During Hu's visit, President Barack Obama assured China that the US is reasserting its influence in East Asia and in the Pacific Ocean. Indeed, the US has increased its military and political presence in the Pacific through its military deployment in Australia and its diplomatic/military pressure on the sovereignty disputes in the South China Sea in early 2012.\n\nThe administration of Hu's successor, Xi Jinping, has used the phrase more sparingly. It was mentioned only once in the resolutions passed by the 3rd Plenary Session of the 18th Central Committee.\n\nWhile initially the public's reaction to the idea was positive, over the years \"Harmonious Society\" has emerged as a euphemism for \"stability at all costs,\" and has garnered its share of critics. The government often uses \"Harmonious Society\" to justify the suppression of dissent and the tight control on information in China. Some social commentators have pointed out the irony that in building a \"harmonious society\" the country has become less just, less equal, and less fair. Meanwhile, some of Hu's critics say that application of the \"Socialist Harmonious Society\" concept has resulted in anything but itself. China scholar Cheng Li said that Hu's failure in implementing the Socialist Harmonious Society program has been his \"gravest pitfall\" during his tenure. Critics cite the increased wealth gap, higher internal security budgets, and unprecedented corruption in state-owned industries as evidence that Socialist Harmonious Society has failed in practice.\n\nThe term \"River crab\" () has been adopted as internet slang in Mainland China in reference to Internet censorship. The word \"river crab\" sounds similar to the word \"harmonious\" in Mandarin Chinese. In addition, the word \"harmonious\" can itself also be the placeholder verb for \"to censor\", most often referring to posts on a forum that have been deleted because of its unacceptable content, or the censorship of stories reporting sensitive issues in the press. Something that has been censored in this manner is often referred to as having been \"harmonized\" (被和谐了).\n\n"}
{"id": "34924089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34924089", "title": "Herri Urrats", "text": "Herri Urrats\n\nHerri Urrats (Basque for 'a people's step') is an annual festival held the second Sunday of May to reach out to the \"ikastolak\" ('Basque language schools') in the Northern Basque Country, France. In the Southern Basque Country (Spain), Basque is taught in all public schools, but in the French Basque Country, students wishing to be taught in Basque must attend an \"ikastola school\".\n\nThe first festival was held in 1984 in the town of Saint-Pée-sur-Nivelle (\"Senpere\" in Basque). The small town has come to be renowned for its regular Herri Urrats celebration, which remains one of the largest of its kind. Herri Urrats consists basically of a walk around the Saint-Pée lake. The circuit laid out around an artificial lake is dotted with food stands and entertainment all along. Walkers sometimes march in support of an organization. \n\nIts first edition was attended by five thousand people, but in later years the attendance has risen as high as seventy thousand. In 2011, the money collected was used to fund the Kanbo Xalbador Ikastola. The funds collected provide financial support to the Basque schools across the three traditional provinces of Iparralde (French Basque Country): Lapurdi, Lower Navarre and Zuberoa. Contributions of participants and popular subscription have helped build twenty-five ikastolas, three primary schools, and one secondary school. The festival also celebrates Basque culture and language.\n\nHerri Urrats is celebrated in many major cities the world over, including Buenos Aires, Argentina, Paris and London.\n\n"}
{"id": "15994088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15994088", "title": "Hya language", "text": "Hya language\n\nHya is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in northern Cameroon and neighboring regions of Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "31907619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31907619", "title": "Igdalen people", "text": "Igdalen people\n\nThe Igdalen (var.: Igdalan, Agdal) are a Berber people inhabiting northwestern Niger and parts of Mali and Algeria. They speak Tagdal, a mixed Tuareg–Songhay language. The Igdalen are closely related to Idaksahak people of eastern Mali and the Sawaq of Ingal in Niger, with whom they share a very similar language. Culturally, the Igdalen are often considered a Tuareg faction. In the past they have formed a sub-confederation with the Kel Fadey, Kel Ferwan and others in the Kel Ayr Tuareg confederation or \"Drum Group\".\n\nThere are an estimated 27,000 Igdalen, and are centered on Tanout and Tchin Tabaraden in northern Niger, although seasonal transhumance with livestock take them well north and south. Igdalen are Muslim, and have previously been a Marabout (religious) and herding caste within Tuareg society.\n\nThe Igdalen do not form a single political or tribal group, but factions are through recent history attached to at least two aristocratic Tuareg tribes. These include the Kel Ferwan \"Immuzurag\" and \"Ikherkheren\". In the Ingal area, the Igdalen are divided into two additional tribes, the \"Kel Tofey\" and the \"Kel Amdit\".\n\nThe Igdalen are believed to have been among the first Berber people to move into the area, before large Tuareg groups migrated from the 11th to the 16th centuries CE. It is believed that Igdalen came to the Niger river valley from Morocco by the 11th century, moving up towards the Aïr Mountains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17255075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17255075", "title": "Italian settlers in Libya", "text": "Italian settlers in Libya\n\nItalian settlers in Libya (, also called Italian Libyans) typically refers to Italians, and their descendants, who resided or were born in Italian Libya, in the colonial period preceding independent Libya.\n\nItalian heritage in Libya can be dated back to Ancient Rome, when the Romans controlled and colonized Libya for a period of more than five centuries prior to the fall of the Roman Empire and its takeover by Arab and Turkish civilizations. But predominantly Italian heritage in Libya refers to modern-day Italians.\n\nIn 1911, the Kingdom of Italy waged war on the Ottoman Empire and captured Libya as a colony. Italian settlers were encouraged to come to Libya and did so from 1911 until the outbreak of World War II.\n\nIn less than thirty years (1911–1940), the Italians in Libya built a significant amount of public works (roads, railways, buildings, ports, etc.) and the Libyan economy flourished. They even created the Tripoli Grand Prix, an international motor racing event first held in 1925 on a racing circuit outside Tripoli (it lasted until 1940).\n\nItalian farmers cultivated lands that had returned to native desert for many centuries, and improved Italian Libya's agriculture to international standards (even with the creation of new farm villages).\n\nCatholicism experienced a huge growth in those years, with many new churches built for the growing Italian community: in the late 1920s the two catholic Cathedrals of Tripoli and Benghazi were built. The one in Benghazi was considered the biggest in north Africa.\n\nThe governor Italo Balbo is attributed with the creation of modern Libya in 1934, when he convinced Italian leader Benito Mussolini to unite the Italian colonies of Tripolitania, Cirenaica and the Fezzan into one single country named \"Libia\" in Italian.\n\nLibya was considered the new \"America\" for the Italian emigrants in the 1930s, substituting the United States.\n\nThe Italians in Libya numbered 108,419 (12.37% of the total population) at the time of the 1939 census. They were concentrated in the coast around the city of Tripoli (they constituted 37% of the city's population) and Benghazi (31%).\n\nIn 1938, Governor Balbo brought 20,000 Italian farmers to colonize Libya, and 26 new villages were founded for them, mainly in Cyrenaica.\n\nOn January 9, 1939, the colony of Libya was incorporated into metropolitan Italy and thereafter considered an integral part of the Italian state. Libya, as the Fourth Shore, was to be part of the Imperial Italy, desired by the Italian irredentists.\n\nBy 1939 the Libyan Italians had built 400 km of new railroads and 4,000 km of new roads (the largest and most important was the one from Tripoli to Tobruk, on the coast) in Libya.\n\n...\"Once pacification had been accomplished, Fascist Italy endeavored to convert Libya into an Italian province to be referred to popularly as Italy's Fourth Shore. In 1934 Tripolitania and Cyrenaica were divided into four provinces--Tripoli, Misrata, Benghazi, and Darnah--which were formally linked as a single colony known as Italian Libya, thus officially resurrecting the name that Diocletian had applied nearly 1,500 years earlier. Fezzan, designated as South Tripolitania, remained a military territory. A governor general, called the first consul after 1937, was in overall direction of the colony, assisted by the General Consultative Council, on which Arabs were represented. Traditional tribal councils, formerly sanctioned by the Italian administration, were abolished, and all local officials were thereafter appointed by the governor general. Administrative posts at all levels were held by Italians. \nAn accord with Britain and Egypt obtained the transfer of a corner of the Anglo-Egyptian Sudan, known as the Sarra Triangle, to Italian control in 1934. The next year, a French-Italian agreement was negotiated that relocated the 1,000-kilometer border between Libya and Chad southward about 100 kilometers across the Aouzou Strip, but this territorial concession to Italy was never ratified by the French legislature. \nIn 1939 Libya was incorporated into metropolitan Italy. During the 1930s, impressive strides were made in improving the country's economic and transportation infrastructure. Italy invested capital and technology in public works projects, extension and modernization of cities, highway and railroad construction, expanded port facilities, and irrigation, but these measures were introduced to benefit the Italian-controlled modern sector of the economy. Italian development policy after World War I had called for capital-intensive \"economic colonization\" intended to promote the maximum exploitation of the resources available. \nOne of the initial Italian objectives in Libya, however, had been the relief of overpopulation and unemployment in Italy through emigration to the undeveloped colony. With security established, systematic \"demographic colonization\" was encouraged by Mussolini's government. A project initiated by Libya's governor, Italo Balbo, brought the first 20,000 settlers — the \"ventimilli\" — to Libya in a single convoy in October 1938. More settlers followed in 1939, and by 1940 there were approximately 110,000 Italians in Libya, constituting about 12 percent of the total population. Plans envisioned an Italian colony of 500,000 settlers by the 1960s. \nLibya's best land was allocated to the settlers to be brought under productive cultivation, primarily in olive groves. Settlement was directed by a state corporation, the Libyan Colonization Society, which undertook land reclamation and the building of model villages and offered a grubstake and credit facilities to the settlers it had sponsored. The Italians made modern medical care available for the first time in Libya, improved sanitary conditions in the towns, and undertook to replenish the herds and flocks that had been depleted during the war. But, although Mussolini liked to refer to the Libyans as \"Muslim Italians,\" little more was accomplished that directly improved the living standards of the Arab population.\"\nIn 1940 World War II broke out between Italy and Great Britain. The defeat of the Axis forces in the North African Campaigns of World War II meant Italy lost Libya to British and French control. After these Western Desert Campaign defeats in 1941, Italy was forced to abandon its colonial intentions and projects.\n\nFrom 1943 to 1951, Tripolitania and Cyrenaica were under British administration, while the French controlled Fezzan. Under the terms of the 1947 peace treaty with the Allies, Italy relinquished all claims to Libya. On November 21, 1949, the UN General Assembly passed a resolution stating that Libya should become independent before January 1, 1952. On December 24, 1951, Libya declared its independence as the United Kingdom of Libya, a constitutional and hereditary monarchy. The Italian population virtually disappeared after the Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi ordered the expulsion of remaining Italians (about 20,000) in 1970. Only a few hundred of them have been allowed to return to Libya in the 2000s.\n\nOn 30 August 2008, Gaddafi and Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi signed a historic cooperation treaty in Benghazi. Under its terms, Italy would pay $5 billion to Libya as compensation for its former military occupation.In exchange, Libya would take measures to combat illegal immigration coming from its shores and boost investments in Italian companies. The treaty was ratified by Italy on 6 February 2009, and by Libya on 2 March, during a visit to Tripoli by Berlusconi. Co-operation ended in February 2011 as a result of the Libyan Civil War which overthrew Gaddafi. At the signing ceremony of the document, Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi recognized historic atrocities and repression committed by the state of Italy against the Libyan people during colonial rule, stating: \"In this historic document, Italy apologizes for its killing, destruction and repression of the Libyan people during the period of colonial rule.\" and went on to say that this was a \"complete and moral acknowledgement of the damage inflicted on Libya by Italy during the colonial era\".\n\nOnly a few hundred Italians have been allowed to return to Libya in the 2000s (decade). In 2006 the Italian embassy in Tripoli calculated that there were approximately 1,000 original Libyan Italians in Libya, mostly elderly people living in Tripoli and Benghazi. After the National Transitional Council (NTC) has been responsible for the transition of the administration of the governing of Libya in 2011, some Italo-Libyan refugees in Italy who were expelled by Gaddafi returned to Libya.\n\nThere are also many descendants (probably 10,000, according to estimates of Italian historian Vidali) of Italian settlers who married Arabs and/or Berbers, and Libyans of mixed Italian and Arab/Berber blood may be considered Arabs or Berbers in the Libyan census.\n\nAt present, the Libyan Italians are organized in the \"Associazione Italiani Rimpatriati dalla Libia\". They are involved in a struggle to have their confiscated properties returned.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23786113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23786113", "title": "Kadu Makrani", "text": "Kadu Makrani\n\nQadir Bukhsh Rind Baloch (known as Kadu Makrani) was a nineteenth-century insurgent in Kathiawar, Gujarat and raised in Makran, Balochistan. He had opposed British Imperialist rule and rule by the elite class of Gujarat in favor of the rights of the poor.\n\nQadir Bukhsh Rind Baloch was martyred and buried in Karachi, Sindh in 1887, with his final resting place in Mewah Shah Graveyard (Lyari). Descendants of Makrani still live in Junagadh, Veraval, Jamnagar (Gujarat) and Lyari (Karachi). Today, many people visit Kadu Makrani's final resting place to pay respect and remember him and his fight against Imperialism.\n\nKadu Makrani migrated with his tribe from his birthplace to Kathiawar, Gujarat during the mid-nineteenth century. Makrani and his tribe fought for territories and resources, receiving tribute from the Nawabs of Kathiawar in return. The ascension of Makrani's tribe troubled Imperialists, who sought to disarm and disable his tribe; a false reason was given when Makrani and his tribe rejected Government social workers entering their homes on the pretense of registration and census. Given the option of armistice or dissension, the tribe rebelled. Makrani's small army with civilian support overcame British Imperialist forces, with many fatalities. British Imperialist forces ultimately failed to counter Makrani's army, although announced a bounty of Rs1,000/- and a 20-acre (81,000 m2) land reward for his head.\n\nIn late 1887, Makrani’s companions suggested returning to Makran to ease British pressure in Kathiawar. Accepting the advice, the tribe moved onto Ahmedabad and then to Sindh. A camel herder agreed to transport him to Makran, yet sought to betray him in return for the bounty reward; Makrani slewed him and fled. Makrani was later captured unconscious after being brought down by a falling stone, and after a short mock trial was sentenced to death.\n\nKadu Makrani was executed in the Karachi central jail in 1887. He was buried in Mewah Shah Graveyard.\n\nIn 1960, Sadhana Chitra Film Company (India) made a Gujarati film titled \"Kadu Makrani\" to pay tribute to Makrani, directed by Manhar Rangildas Raskapur starring Arvind Ganpatram Pandya in the lead role of Makrani.\n"}
{"id": "25499399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25499399", "title": "Kele people (Nigeria)", "text": "Kele people (Nigeria)\n\nThe Ukelle people make up roughly half of the population of the Yala Local Government Area in Cross River State, Nigeria. Ukelle people also live in Nigeria's states of Ebonyi (Effiom, Ntezi and Okpoto - who are also called Effiom or Uffiom) and the state of Benue (Utonkon - who are called Uffia people). The language of the Ukelle people is Kukelle.\n\nThe major groups among the Ukelle are: Wanihem (including Wanibolor), Wanikade (including Uzenyi), Wanokom (including Otikili) and Uzekwe (including Okom), all in North Ukelle, and Uzilagar (Ijiraga), Uzikatom, Uzokom (Ujokom) and Otiligom (Ntrigom) in South Ukelle. For those in Cross River State of Nigeria as well as Effiom (Uffiom) and Uffia in Ebonyi and Benue States of Nigeria.\n\nKukelle, the language of Ukelle people is grouped by some authorities as belonging to the Benue–Congo sub group of African Languages. However, E. Alagoa in \"Groundwork of Nigerian History\" further defined Ukelle people as those who speak one of the Cross River languages.\n\nThe Lutheran Church of Nigeria, through its Literature Centre in Wanikade, translated the New Testament of the Bible into Kukelle in 1979.\n\nThe history of Ukelle is still sketchy. Some argue that their ancestors moved downwards from Benue state, others contend that the ancestors may have moved from the Igbo country. Ukelle people share sociocultural similarities with the neighbouring Igede people of Benue state and Yala people of Cross River state. Major ceremonies such as marriage, burials and dances bear striking resemblances. Ukelle people refer to Yala people as Ollah, Igede people as Ollah-ewoh and the Idoma people of Benue state as Ollah-akpoto.\n\nThe Ukelle region is bounded in the north by the Igede people of Benue state, in the south by the Izzi people of Ebonyi State and in the east by the Yala and Yatche people of Cross River State. Much of Ukelle land in Cross River State is agrarian. However, development and urbanisation are coming into Ukelle. The provision of electricity in north Ukelle and the construction of bridges into the hinterlands of Ukelle are signs of urbanisation. Yam (various species), cassava, rice and domesticated animals are the primary agricultural products of the Ukelle people.\n\nIn the Ukelle region, the day-to-day Government authority at the local level resides in the village assembly (called \"ojilla\"). The village assembly is made up of the king or one or more chiefs, the elders and the youths. In earlier times, a typical Ukelle community had a village square, with the \"ojilla\" at its center. Until any settlement of Ukelle people makes an \"ojilla\", they are considered an appendage of the nearest Cross River Statet community with an \"ojilla\". In fact, the term \"ojilla\" is used interchangeably to refer to the village, its square or the village assembly.\n\nThe burial of an Ukelle man or woman is the responsibility of the deceased family and of the village.\n\nA group of villages make up a clan (called an \"essam\"). For example, in Wanikade, there are three essam: Ogumogum, Otuka and Opuolom respectively. Disputes within each village are adjudicated by the assembly, while disputes between villages within a clan are settled by the assembly of the clan. Disputes between villages in more than one essam as well as matters such as capital punishment, economic use of trees, the forest, rivers etc. are resolved at the general assembly called \n"}
{"id": "32376174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32376174", "title": "Languages of South Sudan", "text": "Languages of South Sudan\n\nSouth Sudan is a multilingual country, with over 60 indigenous languages spoken. The official language of the country is English which was introduced in the region during the colonial era (\"see Anglo-Egyptian Sudan\").\n\nThe indigenous languages with the most speakers are Dinka, Nuer, Bari, Zande.\n\nBoth English and Juba Arabic, an Arabic pidgin used by several thousand people especially in the capital city of Juba, serve as lingua francas.\n\nPrior to independence the 2005 interim constitution of the Southern Sudan Autonomous Region declared in Part 1, Chapter 1, No. 6 (2) that “English and Arabic shall be the official working languages at the level of the governments of Southern Sudan and the States as well as languages of instruction for higher education“.\n\nThe government of the new independed state later deleted Arabic as an official language and chose English as the sole official language. Part One, 6(2) of the transitional constitution of the Republic of South Sudan of 2011 states that \"English shall be the official working language in the Republic of South Sudan\".\n\nThere are over 60 indigenous languages spoken in South Sudan. Most of the indigenous languages are classified under the Nilo-Saharan language family; collectively, they represent two of the first order divisions of Nilo-Saharan (Eastern Sudanic and Central Sudanic). The remainder belong to the Ubangi languages of the Niger–Congo language family, and they are spoken in the southwest.\n\nThe most recent available population statistics for many South Sudan indigenous languages go back to the 1980s. Since then, the war of independence led to many civilian deaths and massive displacement of refugees to Sudan and beyond. Due to the drafting of colonial borders in Africa by European powers during the 19th and 20th centuries, some indigenous languages of South Sudan are spoken in neighboring countries, in some cases more so than in South Sudan. Zande, for example is estimated to have twice as many speakers in the neighboring Democratic Republic of the Congo, while the Banda group of languages may have more speakers in the Central African Republic than in South Sudan.\n\nIn South Sudan, the languages with the most speakers are Nuer with 740,000 speakers in 1982, and Dinka sociolinguistic language or dialect continuum with perhaps 1.4 million in 1986; these two groups of languages are also closely related to one another. Bari had 420,000 in 2000, and Zande had 350,000 in 1982. Of the Ubangi languages, available figures indicate that Zande is the only one with a substantial number of speakers in South Sudan.\n\nThe interim constitution of 2005 declared in Part 1, Chapter 1, No. 6 (1) that: “All indigenous languages of Southern Sudan are national languages and shall be respected, developed and promoted.\n\nThe new transitional constitution of the Republic of South Sudan of 2011 declares in Part 1, Chapter 1, No. 6 (1) that: “All indigenous languages of South Sudan are national languages and shall be respected, developed and promoted.“ In Part 1, Chapter 1, No. 6 (2) it is defined that: “English shall be the official working language in the Republic of South Sudan, as well as the language of instruction at all levels of education.“\n\nSince 1950, three South Sudanese indigenous languages have become extinct, no longer having even ceremonial use - Togoyo, Mittu, and Homa. Of the 68 living languages recognized by ethnologue, 17 are categorized as \"in danger.\" Boguru is used only ceremonially. Aja and Mangayat have only elderly speakers who rarely have the opportunity to use the languages.\n\nWest Central Banda, Indri, and Njalgulgule are used commonly among the elderly, but no members of the child-bearing generation speak them actively. An additional 9 languages are not being transferred to children, and although Bonga and Lokoya are spoken by all generations within their population, they are rapidly losing users.\n\nDuring the Rejaf Conference held in April 1928 during the Anglo-Egyptian condominium it was decided that schooling in the South would be in the English language. Although after independence the Sudan government tried to replace English with Arabic, part of the peace agreement in 1972 ensured that English continued as the medium of education in most schools in southern Sudan. English is widely spoken by those who have had the opportunity of going to school, either within South Sudan or in the diaspora.\n\nSouth Sudan's ambassador to Kenya said on 2 August 2011 that Swahili will be introduced in South Sudan with the goal of supplanting Arabic as a \"lingua franca\", in keeping with the country's intention of orientation toward the East African Community rather than Sudan and the Arab League. Nevertheless, South Sudan submitted an application to join the Arab League as a member state on 25 March 2014, which is still pending. In an interview with the newspaper Asharq Al-Awsat, the Foreign Minister of South Sudan Deng Alor Kuol said: South Sudan is the closest African country to the Arab world, and we speak a special kind of Arabic known as Juba Arabic. Sudan supports South Sudan’s request to join the Arab League.\n\nA group of South Sudanese refugees who were raised in Cuba during the Sudanese wars, numbering about 600, also speak fluent Spanish. They have been named the \"Cubanos\", and most had settled in Juba by the time of the country's independence.\n\nIn the state of Western Bahr el Ghazal, in its border region with the neighboring country of Sudan, there is an indeterminate number of Baggara Arabs (traditionally nomadic people) that resides either seasonally or permanently. Their language is Chadian Arabic and their traditional territories are in the southern portions of the Sudanese regions of Kurdufan and Darfur. In the capital, Juba, there are several thousand people who use an Arabic pidgin, Juba Arabic. Since South Sudan was part of Sudan for a century, some South Sudanese are conversant in either Sudanese Arabic or Modern Standard Arabic. Juba Arabic is a lingua franca in South Sudan.\n\n"}
{"id": "35469672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35469672", "title": "Li'o language", "text": "Li'o language\n\nLi'o, Kéo, or Ende-Li'o, is a Malayo-Polynesian dialect cluster spoken on Flores in Indonesia.\n\nKéo has 23 consonant phonemes.\n\n\nKéo has 6 vowel phonemes.\n\n\n\n\nPersonal pronouns replace proper nouns or other nouns, and form a closed word class. They are highly dependent on context, and are used to indicate if one is referring to the speaker, listener, etc. (Baird, 2002, pp. 108).\n\nThere are five subclasses of nouns; 1) common nouns, 2) kin terms, 3) place names, 4) personal names and 5) personal pronouns (Baird, 2002, pp. 101–102). Thus, unlike English, where pronouns are an independent part of the language, personal pronouns are included under the noun class in Kéo (Baird, 2002, pp. 97). Furthermore, all five of these subclasses, including personal pronouns, may be used as nominal predicates (Baird, 2002, pp. 101).\n\nIn Kéo, there is no change in the personal pronoun, even if they are independent pronouns, subjects, objects, possessors, etc. (Baird, 2002, pp. 108). However, first, second, third, (and singular and plural forms) have differences, and the first person plural pronoun has an inclusive and exclusive form. Apart from the first and second person singular pronoun, pronouns may be followed by numbers to quantify the pronoun. Gender is also not differentiated in Kéo pronouns (Baird, 2002, pp. 109).\n\nOverview of Standard Personal Pronouns (Baird, 2002, pp. 110): \n\nThe standard forms of 1st person singular pronouns are \"nga'o;\" which is 1st singular, \"kita;\" 1st person plural inclusive, and \"kami;\" 1st person plural exclusive. This can be used to express I, me, my, etc. (Baird, 2002, pp. 110). For example:\n\nThe standard forms of 2nd person singular pronouns are \"kau;\" which is 2nd perseon singular and \"miu;\" 2nd person plural. This can be used to express you, your, etc. (Baird, 2002, pp. 110). For example:\n\n(Baird, 2002, pp. 119).\n\nThe standard forms of 3rd person singular pronouns are \"’imu;\" which is 3rd person singular and \"’imu ko'o;\" 3rd person plural. This can be used as he, her, etc. (Baird, 2002, pp. 110). For example:\n\n(Baird, 2002, pp. 116).\n\n(Baird, 2002, pp. 119).\n\nA sentence can also be made to be less ambiguous by using \"’imu\" possessively. (Baird, 2002, pp. 328). In other words, using a pronoun in this way can make the meaning of a sentence clearer to the listener:\n\n1) \"Nambu wado Australia Peter ongga dhoa kumi,\"\n\nWhen go home Australia Peter shave lose beard\n\nWhen Peter went home to Australia he shaved off a beard.\n\n2) \"Nambu wado Australia Peter ongga dhoa kumi ’imu.\"\n\nWhen go home Australia Peter shave lose beard 3sg\n\nWhen Peter returned home to Australia he shaved off his beard.\n\nAs seen in the examples (Baird, 2002, pp. 328) above, 2) clarifies the meaning of 1) with the addition of \"’imu,\" as it shows the beard is Peter’s beard.\n\nBelow is an example of both a 1st singular pronoun and a 3rd singular pronoun being used in the same sentence:\n\n(Baird, 2002, pp. 110).\n\nThere are also alternate forms of personal pronouns, which are used for different reasons. There are three main reasons as to why alternate pronouns are used. Firstly, alternate pronouns may be used to indicate politeness, or to avoid social taboo. Secondly, they may be used based on dialect variations. Lastly, certain pronouns are used to identify the exact number of people there are in the situation being described or talked about (Baird, 2002, pp. 111). Baird (2002) highlighted four alternate forms of personal pronouns used in Kéo; \"ja'o, miu, kita,\" and \"sira\" (Baird, 2002, pp. 111–114).\n\nThe first alternate form, \"ja'o,\" is an alternate form of the first person singular pronoun, \"nga'o\" (standard form). Initially\",\" each dialect group used either one exclusively, and was a way to identify which Kéo -speaking area one was from. However, the use of the standard and alternate form of the pronoun no longer has this ability to establish one’s dialect group (Baird, 2002, pp. 111). This will be further discussed below in \"Regional Varieties.\"\n\nThe second alternate form is \"miu.\" It is often used in reference to more than one person, but can also be used to address one person as an honorific. (Baird, 2002, pp. 112). For example:\n\n(Baird, 2002, pp. 112).\n\nThe third alternate form is \"kita\" (Baird, 2002, pp. 113). As mentioned above, first person plural pronouns have an exclusive and inclusive form in Kéo (Baird, 2002, pp. 110). However, the alternate and inclusive form, \"kita,\" frequently replaces \"kami\" (the exclusive form). Using the inclusive form (\"kita\") instead of the exclusive form (\"kami\") helps the speaker to seem more generous and selfless, as they are including the listener in their speech. Especially when discussing property and personal possessions, the speaker can sound less arrogant by using the inclusive term instead of the exclusive term. (Baird, 2002, pp. 113). For example:\n\n(Baird, 2002, pp. 113).\n\nAnother example which shows the importance of inclusivity in Kéo is where Kéo is often referred to as “our language” (\"sara kita)\" instead of just “Kéo”. (Baird, 2002, pp. 9).\n\nThe last alternate form of personal pronouns highlighted by Baird (2002) is \"sira.\" This pronoun may be used instead of 2nd and 3rd person pronouns. The main reason \"sira\" is used would be as an honorific. It is often used to greet people, and to refer to in-laws or others as a sign of respect. Thus, one would use \"sira\" instead of \"’imu-ko’o\" (Baird, 2002, pp. 114). Kin terms, which is what identifies the relationship between speakers (Baird, 2002, pp. 105), are also preferred when addressing in-laws, to establish a close relationship. Thus, \"sira\" would be used more often than more polite pronouns such as \"miu\" (Baird, 2002, pp. 113–114).\n\nPronouns help to differentiate dialects. In the past, the difference in the first person singular pronoun \"ja’o\" and \"nga’o\" helped to establish this difference. However, in present times intermarriages between different dialect groups have dissolved these boundaries. Instead, which first person singular pronoun is used is up to personal preference (Baird, 2002, pp. 28). Apart from personal preference, many Kéo speakers have the tendency to follow the form that their mother uses, (Baird, 2002, pp. 111) while some adopt the form that their in-laws use after marriage (Baird, 2002, pp. 112).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34005186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34005186", "title": "List of Malla Kings of Nepal", "text": "List of Malla Kings of Nepal\n\nThe Malla Dynasty was the ruling Thakuri dynasty of Kathmandu Valley in Nepal, from the 12th to the 18th century. At that time only the Kathmandu Valley and surrounding region was known as Nepal or Nepal Mandala and the citizens were known as \"Nepa:mi\" (in Newari). In the late 15th century, the Kathmandu Valley was divided into three kingdoms of Bhaktapur (Bhadgaon), Kathmandu (Kantipur) and Patan (Lalitpur). The Malla dynasty came to an end in 1769 when Prithvi Narayan Shah of Gorkha invaded the valley, thus inaugurating the Shah dynasty of Nepal.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37033560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37033560", "title": "Lock On (street art)", "text": "Lock On (street art)\n\nLock On is a genre of street art, where artists create installations by attaching sculptures to public furniture using lengths of chain and old bike locks. \nThe installations themselves are referred to as \"a Lock On\" (\"singular\") or \"Lock Ons\" (\"plural\").\n\nA Lock On is art in a public space, typically attached to a fence or street lamp with some sort of padlock, without permission. The Lock On style is a \"non-destructive\" form of underground art.\n\n\nLock On street sculptures can be made from various materials like wood, plastic, clay, concrete, iron, styrofoam or polystyrene. Typically a part of the concept is to re-use found materials. \nIn some cases the materials are released in the same neighborhood where it was originally collected, now upcycled into sculptures, following the thought of improving cityscape by the use of materials that used to impair the very same area.\n\nThe locks used when mounting street sculptures are, in some cases, dismounted from broken bikes, found nearby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37002779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37002779", "title": "Lope language", "text": "Lope language\n\nAwu (Chinese: 阿务), also known as Lope (autonym: \"\"), is a Loloish language of China. Awu is spoken in Luxi, Mile, Luoping, and Shizong counties (\"Ethnologue\"). It is closely related to Nisu (Lama 2012).\n\nNorthern Awu is a distinct language. \"Ethnologue\" lists Northern Awu and Southern Awu as dialects.\n\nYYFC (1983) documents Awu 阿乌 (autonym: lo²¹³pʰɯ²¹) as spoken in Jieyupo, Shemu Village, Dongshan Township (东山公社舍木大队捷雨坡村), Mile County, Yunnan.\n"}
{"id": "52807358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52807358", "title": "Love for the Elderly", "text": "Love for the Elderly\n\nLove for the Elderly is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization with volunteers from 56 countries that \"strives to bring love and kindness to our elders.\"\n\nWhen founder Jacob Cramer's grandfather died following a drawn-out battle with lung cancer in 2010, Cramer was profoundly affected, as their relationship had been very strong. Motivated by his grief to do something to make a difference in his grandfather's honor, Cramer, 13, began handwriting simple letters of kindness to send to seniors in nursing homes, which would eventually become his Letters of Love program, which has collected and distributed over 25,000 handwritten letters to lonely seniors. Over the past three years, Love for the Elderly has grown internationally, with the sole mission of eponymously providing \"love for the elderly.\"\n\nCramer's nonprofit has garnered significant media coverage, particularly in recent years, like The Chive, and the Cleveland Jewish News. Projecting Love for the Elderly into the international spotlight even further, the organization was featured on the cover of American Profile in 2016. Directly after this, their inclusion in GLAMOUR Magazine's 31 days of kindness alongside other notable nonprofits like Oxfam and One.org was critically received by the public. They were covered by Rede Record – the 5th largest TV network in the world – for their humanitarian work in Brazil.\n\nIn 2016, founder Jacob Cramer spoke on national daytime talk show HARRY on behalf of his global organization's initiatives.\n\nIn 2015, Love for the Elderly joined the 4 largest kindness-centered nonprofits in the USA, becoming one of the 5 USA-based members of the World Kindness Movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1022789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022789", "title": "Mahafzah", "text": "Mahafzah\n\nMahafzah, Mahafzeh or Mahaftha is a Jordanian tribe who reside in such places as Kufr Jayiz, Waqqas and Ghor al-Safi (al-Karak). It originated in the Karak area, where it participated in the battles of Hittin and `Ayn Jalut and were among those who aided in resisting the Tatar encroachments on Muslim lands, and in particular Jordan and Palestine. The Mahafzah were relied upon to help aid a wing of the Muslim armies. Several members of the Mahaftha tribe left the small town of Kufr Jayiz in search of education and a better life. Today some Mahaftha tribe members reside in Irbid, Amman, Karak, England, Saudi Arabia, UAE and the United States of America, the census of mahfzah members around 3000, Mahafzah tribe has common council in Kufr Jayiz called Mazafah, they meet there in social occasions.\n"}
{"id": "31837835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31837835", "title": "Metropolitan planning organizations of New Jersey", "text": "Metropolitan planning organizations of New Jersey\n\nThere are three metropolitan planning organizations (MPO) in New Jersey. The organizations are the main decision-making forums for selecting projects for the Statewide Transportation Improvement Program (STIP) in deliberations involving the New Jersey Department of Transportation (NJDOT), the New Jersey Transit Corporation (NJT), county and municipal transportation planners and engineers, other transportation implementing agencies, the public and elected officials at the state, county, and municipal levels.\n\nThe state’s three MPO are:\n\n\nProjects that are identified as potential candidates for inclusion in the regional \ntransportation improvement programs of each of the three MPOs are subject to \nintensive screening to verify project scope, status, schedule, and cost. The resulting “pool”\nof projects is analyzed independently by NJDOT, NJ TRANSIT, and the MPOs to assign \neach project a priority based on the extent to which it would advance identified regional and \nstatewide objectives, such as objectives set forth in the state and regional long-range \ntransportation plans, the New Jersey Capital Investment Strategy, air quality objectives, and \nthe broad social and economic goals of the State Development and Redevelopment Plan.\nNJDOT develops and circulates revenue projections for planning purposes to each of the \nMPOs, based on the best current assessment of available state, federal, and other funds. \nNJDOT, NJ TRANSIT and each of the three MPOs after intensive discussions and forums\nnegotiate a list of deliverable transportation projects that best fit the composite statewide and \nregional priorities within a financially constrained program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5466492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5466492", "title": "Mitaka incident", "text": "Mitaka incident\n\nThe was an incident that took place in Tokyo, Japan on July 15, 1949, when an unmanned 63 series train with its operating handle tied down drove into Mitaka Station on the Chūō Line, killing six people and injuring 20. The incident remains a mystery, as do the Shimoyama and Matsukawa incidents which occurred around the same time, but it is commonly said to have been a plot by the National Railway Workers' Union. The government indicted ten people on a charge of train sabotage resulting in death of the victims, as well as the train's conductor, Keisuke Takeuchi, who was not in the train when it derailed.\n\nOn the day of the derailment, all four of the police officers at Mitaka Station abandoned their posts; this was never explained. Two of the alleged conspirators were indicted for perjury. Takeuchi's lawyer refused to allow a co-worker to present evidence affirming that he and Takeuchi were in a public bath together when the train left the station (an apparently airtight proof that at least one other person was involved), claiming it was \"irrelevant to the case\".\n\nIn a court ruling in 1955, the judge found there was no evidence of a conspiracy, but rather that Takeuchi had planned and executed the entire incident himself. Takeuchi was sentenced to death; the other defendants were declared innocent of all charges. All appeals of the verdict were rejected. All the acquitted defendants were members of the Japan Communist Party, but Takeuchi was not. Takeuchi died in jail in 1967 of a brain tumour. Until his death, he continued to proclaim his innocence.\n\nThe Shimoyama incident, which came to light on July 5, 1949, the Matsukawa derailment, which occurred on August 17, 1949, and the Mitaka incident together make up the three great mysteries of Japanese National Railways.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48386863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48386863", "title": "Ngoya language", "text": "Ngoya language\n\nNgoya, also known as Pala (Kibala, Ipala), is a newly recognized language of Angola that since ca. 2010 has been used for national radio broadcasts. It had previously been considered a dialect of Kimbundu without any linguistic evidence, and appears to be transitional between Kimbundu and Umbundu. \n\nNyoya is spoken in Cuanza Sul between Songo to the north and Umbundu to the south. \n\nThe name \"Ngoya\" is an Umbundu word meaning \"savage\". The endonym is \"Pala\", which with the noun-class-7 prefix is \"Íipàlà\". It is frequently rendered as \"Kibala\", which is the Kimbundu form.\n"}
{"id": "1371119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371119", "title": "Paramedicalization", "text": "Paramedicalization\n\nParamedicalization refers to the trend of people setting more and more value on alternative medicine and different beliefs about wealth and health, which are not authorized by medical science. The process runs concurrently with medicalization. \n\nThe concept of paramedicalization was first presented in 1995 by Finnish sociologists in the Finnish Journal of social medicine\n"}
{"id": "7094718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7094718", "title": "Pochteca", "text": "Pochteca\n\nPochteca (singular pochtecatl) were professional, long-distance traveling merchants in the Aztec Empire. They were a small, but important class as they not only facilitated commerce, but also communicated vital information across the empire and beyond its borders. The trade or commerce was referred to as pochtecayotl. The \"pochteca\" also traveled outside the empire to trade with neighboring lands throughout Mesoamerica. Because of their extensive travel and knowledge of the empire, \"pochteca\" were often employed as spies. The subject of Book 9 of the \"Florentine Codex\" (1576), compiled by Bernardino de Sahagún, is the \"pochteca\". \n\n\"Pochteca\" occupied a high status in Aztec society, below the noble class. The pochteca were responsible for providing the materials that the noble class used to display their wealth. These materials were often obtained from foreign sources. The \"pochteca\" also acted as agents for the nobility by selling the surplus tribute that had been bestowed on the noble and warrior elite and also sourcing rare goods or luxury items. The \"pochteca\" traded the excess tribute (food, garments, feathers and slaves) in the marketplace or carried it to other areas to exchange for trade goods.\n\nDue to the success of the \"pochteca\", many of these merchants became as wealthy as the noble class, but were obligated to hide this wealth from the public. Trading expeditions often left their districts late in the evening, and their wealth was only revealed within their private guildhalls. Although politically and economically powerful, the \"pochteca\" strove to avoid undue attention. The merchants followed their own laws in their own \"calpulli\", venerating their god, Yacatecuhtli, \"The Lord Who Guides\", an aspect of Quetzalcoatl. Eventually the merchants were elevated to the rank of the warriors of the military orders. \n\nThe \"pochteca\" were organized into powerful guilds, each based in one of the urban centers of the Valley of México:\n\n\nThe markets were part of a complex interlocking system. In the Valley there were four levels of market:\n\nSome of the cities were famous for specialized markets:\n\nThe highest official of the \"pochteca\" in Tenochtitlán was the \"Pochtecatlailotlac\", the Merchant-Arbiter who also sat as one of the judges in the \"Tlacxitlan\", the highest court of law. \n\nEach of these cities included a merchant district and a market, the \"tianquiztli\", though the greatest market was the tianquizco in Tlatelolco, the fifth \"campan\" of Tenochtitlán. Tlatelolco included seven calpulli inhabited by the pochteca: \"Pochtlan, Ahhuachtlan, Atlauhco, Acxotlan, Tepetitlan, Itztolco\" and \"Tzommolco\". Each of the \"pochteca calpulli\" were governed by the \"Pochtecatlatoque\" – the Merchant Speakers or Leaders. Those of the \"Pochtlan\" and \"Acxotlan\" districts had special titles:\n\nEach of the \"Pochtecatlatoque\" were aided by the \"pochtecatlatoque\". The pochtecatlatoque were the elder of the pochteca, and were no longer travelers, but rather acted as administrators, overseeing young pochteca and administering the marketplace. \n\nThe volume of trade passing through the great \"tianquizco\" of \"Tlatelolco\" was unsurpassed in Mesoamerica. Some sources have estimated that up to 60,000 people daily passed through this market hub. The Spanish conquerors commented on the impressive nature of the local markets in the 15th century. The Mexica (Aztec) market of Tlatelolco was the largest in all the Americas and said to be superior to those in Europe. It served not merely to distribute goods but as the great clearing house of the Empire. Such was the organisation required to manage this massive entrepreneurial center that the Aztec state founded special institutions and officials to oversee it.\n\nThe professional merchants were classified into the following roles:\n\nThe \"pochteca\" were divided into the following types:\n\nWithin these groups there were also:\n\nThe \"Tlanecuilo\" or \"Tlanecuiloani\", the regional traders and pedlars were not part of the \"pochteca\" guilds but were an important part of market commerce. They traded in foodstuffs and utilitarian goods rather than the luxuries carried by the \"pochteca\" and frequently specialised in specific items, such as:\n\n"}
{"id": "36984904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36984904", "title": "Post-90s", "text": "Post-90s\n\nThe Post-90s generation () is a generation in China, especially in urban areas, generally considered to be born between 1990 and 1999 though sometimes considered to start with those born in fall 1989 (as they would graduate with those born in 1990). They are the second generation of Chinese people to grow up as only children and in the post-Tiananmen era and the first generation to be born after the protests. They are also China's last 20th century born cohort.\n\nThey are alleged to have traits that are similar to the Post-80s generation, such as the Little Emperor Syndrome and a knack for information technology and capitalism, but in a much more highly developed way. On the other hand, the post-1990s generation is also characterized as being more realistic than the post 1980s.\n\nPost-90s is also alleged to have less of a sense of hierarchy in the workplace and more of a sense of individuality compared to older generations.\n\nPost-90s have distinct cultural characteristics and are stereotyped as \"lazy, promiscuous, confused, selfish, brain damaged and overall hopeless\".\n\nUnlike the post-80s, who witnessed a glimpse of pre-affluent China in the late 1980s and 1990s, all but the oldest Post-90s have only known a booming urban China for most or all of their memory.\n\n"}
{"id": "25397822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25397822", "title": "Psuko Shel Yom", "text": "Psuko Shel Yom\n\nPsuko shel Yom (, \"Psuqo shel yom\", lit. \"[The] Verse Of The Day\") was an Israeli daily midnight minutes-long program-segment aired on the public Channel 1, reciting selected daily biblical, Midrash or Aggadah verses. \n\n\"Psuko shel Yom\" was aired on a daily basis just as the Israeli public channel retired for the night and closed its broadcast. The channel was for many years the only one in Israel, and therefore the program aired just in time before people fell asleep, and it became an Israeli culture-cult segment.\n\n\"Psuko shel Yom\" is aired at midnight and has been broadcasting the same platform-content for over thirty years. The TV screen displays the verses with biblical fonts while the reciter (not shown), Mordechai Freidman, reads the selected passage, and while the \"Yad\" (Torah Pointer) moves through with the verses of the page, at pace with the reciter. A short musical segment, in \"biblical\" style music, is always played at the beginning and the end of the program. It also became a cultural-cult sound track associated with \"Psuko shel Yom\". At the conclusion of the program, in later stages, it was followed by a channel slide featuring Jerusalem at night and IBA announcer Malachi Ezekiah saying \"The broadcast of Israeli Television has finished for today. Good night from Jerusalem.\" and was followed by the national anthem. \n\nThe program has been broadcast every night since November 1969, when the television service's hours of broadcasting grew. It was first initiated by Benyamin Zvieli, who was then the manager of the Jewish heritage department in the Israel Broadcasting Authority. He was the reciter, and the secretary of the department, Leah, was responsible for moving the \"Yad\". After his retirement, he was replaced by Mordechai Freidman as the reciter, who is still the daily reciter as of 2010. \n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, spinoff shows were created based on \"Psuko shel Yom\": \"Psuko shel Makom\" (a place's passage), and \"Agada Shel Makom\" (a place's Aggadah [lit. legend]), which showed sites in Israel and the related verses and legends.\n\nIn 2016, a new series was commissioned as part of a campaign initiated by Channel 1 to reinstate old programming for two months. This new series consisted of thirty episodes and were about the history of broadcasting in Israel.\n\n\"Psuko Shel Yom\" became part of the Israeli Folklore and is mentioned in Israeli media outlets, in many broad related issues, ranging from serious news matters to comedy style issues. \n\nIn many people's views, the regular broadcasting of the midnight segment individualizes the broadcasting of the Hebrew public channel 1, and provides a unique Jewish spiciness. It reminds people of the term \"Daf Yomi\" (\"[the] daily page\", a daily regimen undertaken to study the Babylonian Talmud), and grants a drop of Judaism to the broad Israeli public, especially the secular one, becoming part of the Jewish heritage. \n\nThe midnight short segment has also taken a hit from critics. The broadcasting in a midnight hour is claimed by the critics to be somewhat associated with weariness and sleeping. Also, the regular displayed platform-content that is unchanged, was criticized to be repeatedly old fashioned, and the old-fashioned biblical text with non common Modern Hebrew words - all became a platform for self-humor on daily basis and on comedy writings.\n\n"}
{"id": "52896654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52896654", "title": "Race in Ghana", "text": "Race in Ghana\n\nRace in Ghana is marked by an underlying racial hierarchy valuing whiteness over blackness. This may be seen through certain social phenomena from within Ghana and other postcolonial regions in the world. The process of racialization has been reinforced by the postcolonial policies and ongoing Western influence, both culturally and economically.\n\nThe racial political structure of Ghana is based on the conception that Ghana as a country is free of racism due to their status as being the first African colony to gain full independence on March 6, 1957. As such, the country is seen as the central hub for Pan-Africanism and African nationalism on the continent. Due to this reputation, Ghana is revered as the pioneer that championed over the European Colonization of Africa (Scramble for Africa) and til this day, Ghana still serves as a role model of independence in Africa. As the nation progressed, the racial lines that once marginalized groups within Ghana began to break down and a new identity of blackness had emerged in response to years of European domination. Since then many Ghanaian and Africans alike have shown great unity during times of Ghana's celebration of its independence.\n\nYet despite these tremendous initiatives, certain critics and researchers alike have made arguments to suggest that despite the liberation of Ghana, the presence of European hegemony still exist in their everyday lives. As suggested by Jemima Pierre, the racial connotations of Ghana implicate that there are societal norms and economic practices that perpetuate white supremacy. According to her argument, it is suggested that the cultural implication of whiteness has caused many Ghanaians to become more inherently invested in promoting positive traits and institutions that are seen as more modern and sophisticated. This perspective has brought a great deal of controversy and debate among academics in the African studies community. Due to this debate, many Ghanaians and critics have come forward with the counter argument that Ghana as a whole is a hallmark of black pride, but Pierre's argument countered these claims given the evidence of how European hegemony has and is still influencing many of the social aspects in the state of Ghana.\n\nThe perspective which Pierre argued stems from the colonial past that Ghana endured during its history. As a European colony, Ghana was subjected to numerous levels of changes that resulted into the societal change. After its independence, Ghana was able to take control of its development and political economy. The first Ghanaian President, Kwame Nkrumah, developed policies and national symbols to reinforce the new found African pride that had swept the African continent. But there were many challenges that proved to be dangerous and detrimental to the Ghanaian state. These obstacles were the continued European influence, political instability, and the Cold War. These problems greatly contributed to the struggle of racial identity in Ghana given the constant interference by the Europeans and other Western powers. Another attribute that contributes to racial identity in Ghana are the number of immigrants of non-African descent that migrated to Ghana during the '60s to the mid-'90s. The migrations occurred due to the new hopes of economic investment, and because of the influx of immigrants, Ghana's demographic make-up has shifted during the last sixty years. As a result, Ghana's racial identity is becoming more globalized with the exception that the majority of Ghanaians are of African origin. Given the overall population with black Ghanaians being the majority, there is still considerably outside influences that dictate how the Ghanaian government operates on the bases of accommodating outside investors, foreign government officials, and business men/women (particularly White/Europeans) for their services and visits which are sometimes accompanied with special treatment and benefits.\n\nIn order to clearly understand the concept of the Ghost of Anglo European Hegemony, it needs to be broken down. Hegemony is the normalized dominance of one group over another. When Jemima Pierre references this she is stating how the Anglo Europeans left lasting impressions on the Ghanaian people and land. The ghost is the lingering effects of what was done when the Europeans were inhabitants of Ghana along with the Ghanaian people. Some of these effects include division of the people by way of economic power/position and the disruption to local politics pre-European influence. Once the Europeans pulled out of the land they had already destroyed the civility that once existed. The leaders from indirect rule were left in place. These leaders were there to continue to implement the policies and laws that Europeans had enacted. These laws, unbeknownst to them at the time, were racist and were created to keep the division wide.\n\nIn Ghana, the ghosts of colonialism, white supremacy, and imperialism still linger in their society, whiteness is seen as superior and the goal, creating a Trope of Whiteness. There's an initial distrust of white people, but also a need to become white and assimilate into white culture. In the book, \"The Predicament of Blackness: Postcolonial Ghana and the Politics of Race\", Jemima Pierre speaks to a group of Ghanaian college students about how they view white people and white influence. Many of the college students had an almost God-like view of white people, calling them \"demigods\" or \"mini-gods\", the University students also pointed out that they treat white people better than their fellow Ghanaians despite an initial distrust for white people, and this is because the students see white people as more successful, more advanced, more educated, and are leading in almost all industries. . This Trope of Whiteness is one of the many lasting impacts of colonialism in Ghana, and because of white supremacy and internalized racism it is almost ingrained in the minds of many Ghanaians that white people are better and/or smarter. The idea that \"whiteness is the ownership of the Earth\" , goes hand in hand with the Trope of Whiteness in Ghana, Ghanaians are exposed to Eurocentric beauty standards and even the white washing of religion is ingrained in the minds of many Ghanaians.\n\nKwame Dompi, a professor at a university in the United States, made an assertion about the whitewashed view of Jesus in Ghana. \"If you think of God as the good of all good, then you will think of Whites the same way.\". In many Ghanaian churches, Jesus has \"long blond hair and a blond beard\" and the significance of having a white Jesus goes back to the dialogue about white people being \"mini-gods\" or \"demigods\". It can also lead to many Ghanaians' belief in an exaggerated white goodness, that because Jesus is white then all whites must be good because Jesus is good, and it pushes along the message that darkness and blackness is bad, therefore they are bad, and this can often lead to many Ghanaians performing whiteness to seem and be more successful, attractive, and good. This is especially true for poor Ghanaians, who do see whiteness as wealth and power. In her book, Pierre tells the story of a young Ghanaian girl who shyly waves at a white family, just hoping to catch their attention, and it is pointed out to Pierre that if the family was non-White they would not get the same reception from her.\n\nThe Trope of Whiteness in Ghana is confusing and often times problematic, because of where the trope comes from. The admiration of whiteness did not happen overnight, but because of centuries of colonialism, imperialism, and white/European influence on pop culture and religion have become so ingrained in the minds of Ghanaians that they, and many other African decedents have a hard time letting go of it, or want to become a part of it\n\nThe word \"obruni\" means \"foreigner\". Its modern use shows how omnipresent the racial hierarchy is in Ghanaian culture.\n\nOriginally used to identify White Europeans, the term is now used to refer to foreign Whites as well as foreign Asians, diaspora Blacks and Ghanaians returning from abroad. It's common use to describe seemingly rich and culturally different Ghanaians and other Blacks signals a clear association made between Whiteness as racialized identity and Whiteness as a particular class status, cultural standing, education level and outlook. By unconsciously reinforcing the link between whiteness and wealth, it normalizes social characteristics held by the white people.\n\nIn the same way, obruni is also sometimes used as an indicator for goodness or attractiveness. This use of the word links directly whiteness to goodness. Thus, It construct and affirms a racial hierarchy dominated by the white people that permeates society. It contributes indirectly to the legitimation of the latter's social domination in Ghana.\n\nSkin lightening in Ghana or skin whitening has become increasingly popular, with many citizens of Ghana having a desire for lighter skin colour. The products that they use that can cause permanent damage to their skin as well as to their health. This is all because of the internalized racism that the Ghanaian citizens have encountered. Skin bleaching crosses class lines, which makes it a problem that affects the entire country. In 2005 the Ghana Health Service launched an anti-bleaching campaign to inform its citizens of the potential damage that skin bleaching causes. The region that has the most problem with skin bleaching is the Ashanti region. This is due to cultural adaptation to skin bleaching. The queen mother is favoured when she is lighter, this is because she holds a place a power and she needs to look brighter. The problem with skin bleaching is due to the internalized racism in Ghana where whiteness is favoured.\n\nRace, when it comes to the interaction with the African-Diaspora, is “within mutual processes of discourse, practices, and (mis)recognitions that are informed both by African diasporic racial consciousness and identity and by Ghanaian racialized consciousness and agency.” There are some differences in views on the aspect of slavery and its role in history between the people of the Diaspora and Ghanaian people. The Ghanaian people believe that the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade did not affect them as much as it effected the people of the Diaspora. This does not mean that they view slavery as a less significant part of African history, to them it is a part that did not affect them as much. Descendants of the Diaspora feel the complete opposite. During a conversation with Lynette, Kofi, stated that Lynette was the lucky one. \"I was surprised- shocked, even- that one of my friends would have such a view of the African diasporic experience.\" To people of the diaspora the Trans-Atlantic slave trade is seen as barbaric, inhumane and heinous. Despite the difference of perspective regarding the slave trade, Ghanaians believe in solidarity with all people of African descent. As a result of their solidarity the first president of Ghana created the All-African People's Revolutionary Party.\n\nThe All-African People's Revolutionary Party (A-APRP) was established to combat the forces oppressing Africans worldwide in a struggle for equality while uniting them through a revolutionary Pan-Africanism movement. A-APRP was requested by the first president of Ghana Kwame Nkrumah. Kwame Toure was a U.S. civil rights and Black Power movement activist formerly known as Stokely Carmichael. With Toure as leader the party grew so fast that it spread throughout the African Continent and the African Diaspora. In Ghana, the party focused on African unity as define by Pan-Africanism, while maintaining a balance between work and study. This also stressed that members raise their political consciousness\n\nDescendants of the diaspora are often viewed as tourists travelling for pleasure. However, when these people do journey to Africa, specifically Ghana, more often than not it is with the intent of discovering their history first hand. \"Black diaspora visitors journey to Africa for cultural and spiritual renewal...\". This voyage is an attempt to fill a void that was caused by the Trans-Atlantic slave trade and the displacement of those people and their ancestors. They feel connected to the land and the people. The voyages also serve to gain first hand knowledge and experience between the descendants of the Diaspora and Ghanaian people. The voyages are beneficial to both groups. Some Ghanaian people feel connected to the descendants of the diaspora as well, this is seen in the greetings among other things. They often refer to each other as brother, sister, or cousin to show the mutual feeling of connection.\n\nHeritage tourism is a form of political socioeconomic gain and a huge part of Tourism in Ghana. It is described as when a person travels to experience a place that includes cultural, historic and natural resources with its artifacts and activities that authentically represent the stories and people of the past and present. The process of racialization via heritage tourism are perpetuated at a local and state level via the state institutions and organizations that operate the PANAFEST/ Emancipation Day. The influences of heritage tourism on the process of racialization are strictly economic. The Ghanaian governments exploit the Trans-Atlantic slave trade and its history as a basis for economic prosperity. Ghanaians Freddie Blay, the minister of tourism, focused on developmental and emancipation goals for Africa but emphasized that these goals would only be conceptual under the fold of Africa’s contemporary economic situation and Ghana’s history of slavery. Blay stated: “Emancipation day should be a universal event because Africa endured a trauma unprecedented in the annals of history …we carry the marks and scars of slavery and its later [result] of discrimination ...slavery affected economic growth and social growth ...we salute the survival of the African - both on the continent and in the diaspora… What we need is the unity of resolve and a purpose. Therefore, challenge this generation of Africans, whether on the homeland or in the diaspora, to rise up to the challenge and prove the resilience of the African spirit and the resourcefulness of the African mind” (Pierre, 125) It is explained that the emancipation and African spirit both symbolized the self determination and future economic development. The state depicts heritage tourism through the global perspective of slavery in benefit of economic development.\n"}
{"id": "21910192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21910192", "title": "Richard R. Lavigne", "text": "Richard R. Lavigne\n\nRichard Roger Lavigne (born 1941) is a former priest of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Springfield in Massachusetts. Lavigne has been at the center of the priest abuse scandal in the Diocese of Springfield in Massachusetts with about 40 claims of sexual abuse of minors placed against him.\n\nHe was removed from ministry by Bishop John Marshall in 1991. He pleaded guilty to two counts of child sexual abuse on June 26, 1992 and was the only suspect named in the unsolved 1972 murder of 13-year-old Danny Croteau of Springfield, Massachusetts. In 1994, DNA tests failed to link Lavigne to the Croteau murder and the Hampden County District Attorney William Bennett did not bring any charges against Lavigne in that case. Lavigne was removed from the ranks of the clergy by the Vatican on 20 November 2003. Lavigne has registered as a sex offender and currently resides in Chicopee, Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40979482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40979482", "title": "See Art Orlando", "text": "See Art Orlando\n\nSee Art Orlando (SAO) is a non-profit that raises money to install public art in the City of Orlando. In 2013 SAO installed eight sculptures in downtown Orlando. Most of the sculptures are at Lake Eola Park. All of the sculptures are commissioned and installed using private donations.\n\nThe seven sculptures of the eight that have been installed are:\n"}
{"id": "29797075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29797075", "title": "Sihanaka", "text": "Sihanaka\n\nThe Sihanaka are a Malagasy ethnic group concentrated around Lake Alaotra and the town of Ambatondrazaka in central northeastern Madagascar. Their name means the \"people of the swamps\" in reference to the marshlands around Lake Alaotra that they inhabit. While rice has long been the principal crop of the region, by the 17th century, the Sihanaka had also become wealthy traders in slaves and other goods, capitalizing on their position on the main trade route between the capital of the neighboring Kingdom of Imerina at Antananarivo and the eastern port of Toamasina. At the turn of the 19th century they came under the control of the Boina Kingdom before submitting to Imerina, which went on to rule over the majority of Madagascar. Today the Sihanaka practice intensive agriculture and rice yields are higher in this region than elsewhere, placing strain on the many unique plant and animal species that depend on the Lake Alaotra ecosystem for survival.\n\nThe Sihanaka have a generally egalitarian social structure, with the eldest male at the head of the family. Traditional beliefs predominate, although Christianity has also had an influence. Social life here, as elsewhere in Madagascar, is guided by the principles of respect for the ancestors and the \"fady\" (taboos) established by them. Traditional social practices include complex funeral and divorce rites and a strong and continuing prohibition on working in paddy fields on Tuesdays.\n\nThe Sihanaka are concentrated around the historically swampy land surrounding Lake Alaotra and the town of Ambatondrazaka in central northeastern Madagascar. Their name means the \"people of the swamps\", partly in reference to the marshlands around Lake Alaotra that they inhabit. More specifically, the word for swamp is a compound composed of \"sia\" (to wander or lose one's way) and \"hanaka\" (spilling or scattering), and some ethnologists have proposed that the name evokes the earliest period in Sihanaka identity when the group's ancestors were migrating in search of the better home they eventually found at Alaotra.\n\nOral history offers several stories regarding the origins of the Sihanaka. Betsimisaraka traders may have been the first to reach the area traveling inland on the Maningory River. Another view posits that the presence of ancient earthen defensive trenches suggests the ancestors of the Merina may have passed by Lake Alaotra on their migration from the southeastern coast to the central highlands, leaving behind settlers whose descendants formed the first Sihanaka communities. Alternatively, a large group calling itself Sihanaka may have migrated from Imerina into the Alaotra area, which may have already been settled by individuals of various other ethnic groups, in order to maintain independence from the rule of the Merina king.\n\nAt least as far back as the mid-1600s, the Sihanaka were established as a technologically sophisticated and prosperous people who provided slaves to slave traders supplying the plantations of the Mascarene Islands. To protect themselves and their wealth, Sihanaka villages were often fortified by earthen walls (\"tamboho\") of the type also prevalent in the neighboring Kingdom of Imerina. Around 1700, the Sihanaka were a major trading partner of the Betsimisaraka, to whom they traded rice and zebu. The Betsimisaraka, desirous of greater access to Sihanaka wealth, successfully negotiated for French assistance to bring the Sihanaka under their control. French militiamen launched several attacks against Sihanaka communities. This incursion was foiled through a combination of firepower - the Sihanaka having obtained numerous firearms through trade with the Sakalava to the west - and the prevalence of malaria and other tropical diseases that decimated the French soldiers.\n\nIn the 18th century, the Sihanaka were vassals of the Boina Kingdom. They mounted at least one major attack against the Boina in an attempt to regain independence, but were unsuccessful. The high number of slaves possessed by the Sihanaka led to a spate of slave revolts in 1768 that they requested European assistance to quell. Around 1800 the territory was conquered by the armies of the Kingdom of Imerina under the leadership of King Andrianampoinimerina. This led to a massive inflow of Merina colonists who settled among the Sihanaka and introduced a variety of cultural, economic and political practices that were assimilated into the local culture to the extent that by the mid-19th century \"it resembled a Merina province\". The Sihanaka resented this imposition and held the Merina sovereigns in low regard.\n\nThe 1895 capture of the Merina royal capitol, the Rova of Antananarivo, by the French sparked the Menalamba rebellion against foreigners, Christianity and Merina domination. In the chaotic 1895–97 period, bands of Sakalava, Marofotsy and other bandits engaged in raids to loot cattle and other goods. The Sihanaka were especially hard hit owing to their reputation as a relatively wealthy trading people. Many Sihanaka villagers resorted to sleeping in the forests and fields to avoid falling victim to nighttime pillage and arson; entire Sihanaka villages were burned.\n\nFollowing French colonization of the island in 1897, the colonial administration imposed a heavy burden of \"corvée\" (statute labor) on the Sihanaka in the 1910s, requisitioning them for minimal to no pay to build the railroad linking the coastal port of Toamasina to the capital city.\n\nToday, the Sihanaka heavily cultivate the land around Laka Alaotra and have increasingly drained the swamps to make way for farming using heavy machinery. This loss of habitat has posed a threat to species living in the area, including the critically endangered Lac Alaotra bamboo lemur, the only lemur species on the island to have evolved to live in and eat the papyrus reeds bordering the lake.\n\nIn 2013, the Sihanaka were estimated to number around 200,000. Families are hierarchical, with parents exercising authoritarian control over their children. Sihanaka men and women have significant autonomy in deciding when to marry and whether to divorce. Marriages are disallowed between siblings, cousins, and direct ascendents. To reinforce this forbidden physical intimacy, Sihanaka have historically used a formal term of address when speaking to these particular family members. Mothers are traditionally subject to several fady, such as not being allowed to look at dead infants, eat veal, or eat a particular type of banana once their child had learned to say the word for it. Parents were traditionally responsible for educating their own children, and while today those who can afford a formal education will study at school, parents and the broader community remain collectively engaged in educating children into social and cultural norms and practices. Male children are circumcised by their families no later than the age of seven.\n\nAmong the Sihanaka, communities are led by their eldest members, termed \"Tangalamena\" or \"Zokiolona\". Social relations are guided by the principle of \"fihavanana\" (solidarity, goodwill). Although the Sihanaka never developed a centralized kingdom like their western neighbor, the Kingdom of Imerina, the Sihanaka were historically united around their traditional religious beliefs.\n\nThe traditional beliefs of the Sihanaka, as elsewhere in Madagascar, revolve around respect for a creator god (\"Zanahary\"), the ancestors, and \"fady\" (ancestral interdictions). Aspects of ancestor worship among the Sihanaka include \"joro\" (collective prayers said to invoke the blessings of God or the ancestors), burial in family tombs, the \"famadihana\" reburial ceremony, and the sanctification of particular stones (\"tsangambato\"), land (\"tany masina\"), and shrines (\"doany\", \"tony\" and \"jiro\"). Another major element of this tradition is the role of \"ambalavelona\", believed to be the spirits of the ancestors themselves. Each ancestral practice or tradition has a particular spirit associated with it, and the Sihanaka show respect for these spirits by maintaining ancestral customs and traditions and adhering to \"fady\".\n\nThe Sihanaka share the belief common throughout the island that the spirits of ancestors can possess the living, placing them in a trance state called a \"tromba\". The Sihanaka traditionally believe that looking at a cuckoo roller (an indigenous bird) will induce the tromba. Communities look to \"ombiasy\" (wise men) for spiritual guidance, to commune with the ancestors, and to determine which days are auspicious for undertaking particular tasks or endeavors. By the 1600s, a uniform religious belief system had grown around a group of \"sampy\" (idols) believed to channel the protective spiritual power of 11 deities. The origin of these amulets is said to have been in the western territories under Sakalava control.\n\nThe Christian conversion of the Merina royal court in 1869 spurred the arrival of Merina missionaries in Sihanaka country and the conversion of a significant portion of the population. Following the French capture of the Merina capital in 1895, Christianity was largely abandoned in Sihanaka and traditional religious beliefs regained preeminence; at least one major historic church in the area was burned. French Catholic missionaries arrived in the area around 1900 and gradually began converting members of local communities. This was soon followed by a renewed effort on the part of Protestant missionaries, leading to further conversions. Today, traditional beliefs remain strong among the Sihanaka, although a growing number practice orthodox Christianity or a syncretic form that incorporates aspects of traditional respect for ancestors and their norms.\n\nEuropean visitors in 1667 reported the Sihanaka lived in fortified villages, which they very effectively defended with bows and arrows. They were the only ethnic group encountered by the European party that had built a bridge. Homes were made of plant material; the Sihanaka believed building homes in brick or clay would invite the displeasure of the ancestors. Gendered roles factored into house construction and maintenance: men applied carpentry to build the frame of the house and roof, as well as the windows and doors and their frames, while women wove \"zozoro\" reed mats that would serve as walls, flooring and roofing.\n\nThe principal food eaten in Sihanaka has long been rice, which they cultivate heavily. The rice based diet was supplemented by a wide range of game and other meats, including lemurs, wild boars, snakes, owls, rats, cats and crocodile, the latter having at one time been protected by a fady that was eventually abandoned. Use of tobacco or marijuana and consumption of pork were commonly forbidden in Sihanaka families. Many believed that transporting swine across Lake Alaotra would bring storms. Their traditional dress consisted of clothing woven of raffia fibers.\n\nThe traditional martial art of \"moraingy\", particularly common among Sakalava communities, was historically common among the Sihanaka.\n\nSihanaka culture traditionally adhered to a wide variety of \"fady\", some of which are still respected to varying degrees by more traditional families to the present day. Many of their fady in the early 1900s were documented by historian Van Gennep. The most absolute fady and the only one that was seemingly practiced by all Sihanaka was a prohibition against working in a paddy field on Tuesdays; sub-groups among the Sihanaka also practiced other taboos associated with particular days of the week, such as not leaving the house or not cleaning floor mats on certain days. A fady was placed on consumption of any new or foreign products, including Western medicines. Another common fady was a taboo against watching the rising or setting of the sun, staring at anything red, or falling asleep at sunset.\n\nFady have served to protect certain wildlife in the Sihanaka homeland. The aye-aye is the subject of numerous fady and folk tales among the Sihanaka. It was traditionally believed that a person who fell asleep in the forest might be brought a pillow by an aye-aye. If the pillow was for one's head, he or she would become rich, but if it was for the feet, that person would be subject to evil sorcery. Similarly, the indri is considered sacred and may not be hunted, killed or eaten.\n\nThe Sihanaka traditionally believed that death was always associated with a contagion that could be passed to family members of the deceased. This belief is reflected in traditional funeral rites. A second door to the family home was used uniquely for carrying out the body of the deceased. Before the body was removed, the widow of the deceased would dress in a fine red \"lamba\" and put on all her jewelery, then watch the procession from her seat at the main entryway to her house. The villagers carried the body to a house where the village women would gather, and the female family members would weep while the other women would play drums and recite prayers. The men would stay in a separate house (called the \"tranolahy\", or \"men's house\") where they would prepare a feast of cooked meat and rum, which they would periodically deliver to the women mourners. Occasionally a selected man would circle the house and sing a funeral chant, with the women inside interjecting in call-and-response. After the feast, a community leader would dip his finger in melted fat and touch those who had assisted in the funeral, to protect them against illness and from being followed by malevolent spirits.\n\nFamily members of the deceased would then reunite in the family home where they would drink more rum and carry out a ritual of purification (\"faly ranom-bohangy\"). Lemon or lime leaves and two other herbs were soaked in a bowl of water, and a family member whose parents were still living would be chosen to sprinkle it on the deceased's possessions, enabling them to be redistributed and reused. The door by which the corpse had been removed was then locked for eight days, during which time the family was required to fast. After completion of this fasting period, the family underwent a purification ritual (\"afana\") and the second door was unlocked. Another feast was observed to formally end the period of community purification. The home of the deceased was then allowed to fall into ruin.\n\nThe villagers would afterward return to the house of the widow, pull off her lamba and jewelery, uncomb her hair (a sign of mourning), dress her in an old lamba, require her to eat only using a broken spoon and plate they provided, and cover her in a rotting mat which she was forbidden to remove until nightfall. She was required to maintain this mourning state for at least eight months, during which time she was forbidden to wash or speak to others during daylight hours. After this period she could abandon the mourning ritual and was considered \"divorced\" (i.e. free to remarry and visit her own parents and family members, previously forbidden); however, if the parents of her deceased husband were still living, only they could declare her divorced, and she was indefinitely required to remain unmarried and forbidden from visiting family if this status was not granted by them. This practice of declaring divorce, without the mourning ritual, was also applied in the event of separation from a living spouse.\nThe Sihanaka speak a dialect of the Malagasy language, which is a branch of the Malayo-Polynesian language group derived from the Barito languages, spoken in southern Borneo.\n\nBy the mid-1600s, the Sihanaka had already established themselves as one of the island's most important trading groups. Their location on the main trade route between the coast and the Merina capital of Antananarivo enabled them to become important trading partners beginning in the 18th century; slave trading was a major source of income until outlawed under Radama I in the 1810s. The Sihanaka women also produced pottery, which was baked using wood collected by men in the surrounding forests.\n\nSince the end of slave trading, the Sihanaka largely derived their livelihoods from rice farming. Their region is among the most productive on the island. Wealth is unequally distributed, with the wealthy owning the majority of the fertile land, which is either rented to the poor or worked by them for low wages.\n\nMembers of this community also herd zebu and catch fish in Lake Alaotra. The work of fishing was traditionally subdivided by gender: men were only allowed to fish for eels, while women were tasked to use nets to catch small fish, and children were the only ones allowed to fish using poles. Men and children would traditionally leave their catch on the shore for women to pick up and take back to the village.\n\nThe Sihanaka are one of the few Malagasy groups who historically branded their cattle. This was done by clipping the ear of the cow and was a religious act conducted once annually on a dedicated day of feasting. Cattle generally belonged to the community as a whole and were used principally to assist with farming.\n\n"}
{"id": "74234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74234", "title": "South Sea Company", "text": "South Sea Company\n\nThe South Sea Company (officially The Governor and Company of the merchants of Great Britain, trading to the South Seas and other parts of America, and for the encouragement of fishing) was a British joint-stock company founded in 1711, created as a public-private partnership to consolidate and reduce the cost of national debt. The company was also granted a monopoly to trade with South America and nearby islands, hence its name (the modern use of the term \"South Seas\" to refer to the entire South Pacific was unknown in England at the time). When the company was created, Britain was involved in the War of the Spanish Succession and Spain controlled South America. There was no realistic prospect that trade would take place, and the company never realised any significant profit from its monopoly. Company stock rose greatly in value as it expanded its operations dealing in government debt, peaking in 1720 before collapsing to little above its original flotation price; the economic bubble became known as the South Sea Bubble.\n\nThe Bubble Act 1720 (6 Geo I, c 18), which forbade the creation of joint-stock companies without royal charter, was promoted by the South Sea company itself before its collapse.\n\nIn Great Britain, a considerable number of people were ruined by the share collapse, and the national economy greatly reduced as a result. The founders of the scheme engaged in insider trading, using their advance knowledge of when national debt was to be consolidated to make large profits from purchasing debt in advance. Huge bribes were given to politicians to support the Acts of Parliament necessary for the scheme. Company money was used to deal in its own shares, and selected individuals purchasing shares were given loans backed by those same shares to spend on purchasing more shares. The expectation of profits from trade with South America was used to encourage the public to purchase shares, but the bubble prices reached far beyond the profits of the slave trade.\n\nA parliamentary enquiry was held after the crash to discover its causes. A number of politicians were disgraced, and people found to have profited unlawfully from the company had assets confiscated proportionate to their gains (most had already been rich men and remained comfortably rich). The company was restructured and continued to operate for more than a century after the Bubble. The headquarters were in Threadneedle Street at the centre of the financial district in London. At the time of these events the Bank of England also was a private company dealing in national debt, and the crash of its rival consolidated its position as banker to the British government.\n\nIn August 1710 Robert Harley was appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer in a government of commission. The government at this time had become reliant on the Bank of England. This was a privately owned company, chartered 16 years previously, which had obtained a monopoly as the lender to Westminster, in return for arranging and managing loans to the government. The government had become dissatisfied with the service it was receiving and Harley was actively seeking new ways to improve the national finances.\n\nA new Parliament met in November 1710 with a resolve to attend to national finances, which were suffering significantly from two simultaneous wars: the war with France, which ended in 1713, and the Great Northern War, which was not to end until 1721. Harley came prepared, with detailed accounts of the situation of the national debt, which was customarily a piecemeal affair, with different government departments arranging their own loans as the need arose. He released the information steadily, continually adding new reports of debts incurred and scandalous expenditure, until in January 1711 the House of Commons agreed to appoint a committee to investigate the entire debt. The committee included Harley himself; the two Auditors of the Imprests, whose task was to investigate government spending; Harley's brother Edward; and Paul Foley, his brother-in-law. Also included were the Secretary of the Treasury, William Lowndes, who had had significant responsibility for reminting the entire debased British coinage in 1696; and John Aislabie who represented the October Club, a group of around 200 MPs who had agreed to vote together.\n\nHarley's first concern was to find £300,000 for the next quarter's pay for the British army operating in Europe under Marlborough. This was provided by a private consortium of , George Caswall and Hoare's Bank. The Bank of England had been operating a state lottery on behalf of the government, but this had not been particularly successful in 1710, and another had already begun in 1711. This too was performing poorly, so Harley granted authority to sell tickets to John Blunt, a director of the Hollow Sword Blade Company, which despite its name was an unofficial bank. With sales commencing on 3 March 1711, tickets had completely sold out by the 7th. This was the first truly successful English state lottery.\n\nThe success was shortly followed by another, larger, lottery, \"The Two Million Adventure\" or \"The Classis\", with tickets costing £100, a top prize of £20,000 and every ticket winning a prize of at least £10. Although prizes were advertised by their total amount, they were paid in the form of a fixed annuity over a period of years, so that the government effectively held the prize money as a loan until it was paid out to the winners. Marketing was handled by members of the Sword Blade syndicate, Gibbon selling £200,000 of tickets and earning £4,500 commission, and Blunt selling £993,000. Charles Blunt (a relative) was made Paymaster of the lottery with expenses of £5,000.\n\nThe national debt investigation had concluded that a total of £9,000,000 was owed, without any allocated income to pay it off. Edward Harley and John Blunt together had devised a scheme to consolidate this debt in much the same way that the Bank of England had consolidated previous debts, although the Bank still held the monopoly on operating as a bank. All holders of the debt would be required to surrender it to a new company, the South Sea Company, which in return would issue shares to the same amount. The government would pay the company £568,279 10s 0d (6% interest plus expenses) annually, which would be distributed as a dividend to shareholders. The company was also given a monopoly to trade with South America, a potentially lucrative enterprise, but one controlled by Spain, with whom Britain was at war.\n\nAt that time, when continental America was being explored and colonized, Europeans applied the term \"South Seas\" only to South America and surrounding waters. The concession both held out the potential for future profits and encouraged a desire for an end to the war, necessary if any profits were to be made. The original suggestion for the South Sea scheme came from William Paterson, one of the founders of the Bank of England and the financially disastrous Darien Scheme.\n\nHarley was rewarded for the scheme by being created Earl of Oxford on 23 May 1711, and was promoted to Lord High Treasurer. With a more secure position, he began secret peace negotiations with France. Commercially, since the lotteries were discredited, some of the debt intended to be consolidated under the scheme was available in the open market before the scheme was announced, at a discounted rate of £55 per £100 nominal value. This allowed anyone with advance knowledge to buy debt cheap and sell at an immediate profit, and made it possible for Harley to bring further financial supporters into the scheme, such as James Bateman and Theodore Janssen.\n\nDaniel Defoe commented:\n\nUnless the Spaniards are to be divested of common sense, infatuate, and given up, abandoning their own commerce, throwing away the only valuable stake they have left in the world, and in short, bent on their own ruin, we cannot suggest that they will ever, on any consideration, or for any equivalent, part with so valuable, indeed so inestimable a jewel, as the exclusive trade to their own plantations.\n\nThe originators of the scheme knew that there was no money to invest in a trading venture, and no realistic expectation that there would ever be a trade to exploit, but the potential for great wealth was widely publicised at every opportunity, so as to encourage interest in the scheme. The objective for the founders was to create a company which they could use to become wealthy, and which offered future scope for further government deals.\n\nThe Charter for the company was drawn up by Blunt, based on that of the Bank of England. Blunt was paid £3,846 for his services in setting up the company. Directors would be elected every three years and shareholders would meet twice a year. The company employed a Cashier, Secretary and Accountant. The Governor was intended to be an honorary position, and the position was later customarily held by the ruling monarch. The charter allowed the full court of directors to nominate a smaller committee to act on any matter on its behalf. Directors of the Bank of England and of the East India Company were disbarred from being a director of the South Sea Company. Any ship of more than 500 tons owned by the company was to have a Church of England clergyman on board.\n\nThe exchange of government debt for stock was to occur in five separate lots. The first two of these, totaling £2.75 million from about 200 large investors, had already been arranged before the company's charter was issued on 10 September 1711. The government itself exchanged £0.75 million of its own debt held by different departments (at this time, individual office holders were responsible for money in their charge, and were at liberty to invest it to their own advantage before it was required). Harley exchanged £8,000 of debt and was appointed Governor of the new company. Blunt, Caswall and Sawbridge together provided £65,000, Janssen £25,000 of his own plus £250,000 from a foreign consortium, Decker £49,000, Sir Ambrose Crawley £36,791. The company had a Sub-Governor, Bateman; a Deputy Governor, Ongley; and 30 ordinary directors. In total, nine of the directors were politicians, five were members of the Sword Blade consortium, and seven more were financial magnates who had been attracted to the scheme.\n\nThe company created a coat of arms with the motto \"A Gadibus usque ad Auroram\" (\"from Cadiz to the dawn\") and rented a large house in the City as its headquarters. Seven sub-committees were created to handle its everyday business, the most important being the \"Committee for the affairs of the company\". The Sword Blade company was retained as their banker and on the strength of its new government connections issued notes in its own right, notwithstanding the Bank of England monopoly. The task of the Company Secretary was to oversee trading activities; the Accountant, Grigsby, was responsible for registering and issuing stock; and the Cashier, Robert Knight, acted as Blunt's personal assistant at a salary of £200 per year.\n\nThe Treaty of Utrecht of 1713 granted Britain an \"Asiento\" lasting 30 years to supply the Spanish colonies with 4,800 slaves per year. Britain was permitted to open offices in Buenos Aires, Caracas, Cartagena, Havana, Panama, Portobello and Vera Cruz to arrange the Atlantic slave trade. One ship of no more than 500 tons could be sent to one of these places each year (the \"Navío de Permiso\") with general trade goods. One quarter of the profits were to be reserved for the King of Spain. There was provision for two extra sailings at the start of the contract. The Asiento was granted in the name of Queen Anne and then contracted to the company.\n\nBy July the company had arranged contracts with the Royal African Company to supply the necessary African slaves to Jamaica. Ten pounds was paid for a slave aged over 16, £8 for one under 16 but over 10. Two-thirds were to be male, and 90% adult. The company trans-shipped 1,230 slaves from Jamaica to America in the first year, plus any that might have been added (against standing instructions) by the ship's captains on their own behalf. On arrival of the first cargoes, the local authorities refused to accept the Asiento, which had still not been officially confirmed there by the Spanish authorities. The slaves were eventually sold at a loss in the West Indies.\n\nIn 1714 the government announced that a quarter of profits would be reserved for the Queen and a further 7.5% for a financial advisor, Manasseh Gilligan. Some Company board members refused to accept the contract on these terms, and the government was obliged to reverse its decision.\n\nDespite these setbacks, the company continued, having raised £200,000 to finance the operations. In 1714 2,680 slaves were carried, and for 1716–17, 13,000 more, but the trade continued to be unprofitable. An import duty of 33 pieces of eight was charged on each slave (although for this purpose some slaves might be counted only as a fraction of a slave, depending on quality). One of the extra trade ships was sent to Cartagena in 1714 carrying woollen goods, despite warnings that there was no market for them there, and they remained unsold for two years.\n\nThe company was heavily dependent on the goodwill of government; when the government changed, so too did the company board. In 1714 one of the directors who had been sponsored by Harley, Arthur Moore, had attempted to send 60 tons of private goods on board the company ship. He was dismissed as a director, but the result was the beginning of Harley's fall from favour with the company. On 27 July 1714, Harley was replaced as Lord High Treasurer as a result of a disagreement that had broken out within the Tory faction in parliament. Queen Anne died on 1 August 1714; and at the election of directors in 1715 the Prince of Wales (the future King George II) was elected as Governor of the Company. The new King George I and the Prince of Wales both had significant holdings in the company, as did some prominent Whig politicians, including James Craggs the Elder, the Earl of Halifax and Sir Joseph Jekyll. James Craggs, as Postmaster General, was responsible for intercepting mail on behalf of the government to obtain political and financial information. All Tory politicians were removed from the board and replaced with businessmen. The Whigs Horatio Townshend, brother in law of Robert Walpole, and the Duke of Argyll were elected directors.\n\nThe new government led to a revival of the company's share value, which had fallen below its issue price. The previous government had failed to make the interest payments to the company for the last two years, owing more than £1 million. The new administration insisted the debt be written off, but allowed the company to issue new shares to stockholders to the value of the missed payments. At around £10 million, this now represented half the share capital issued in the entire country. In 1714 the company had 2,000 to 3,000 shareholders, more than either of its rivals.\n\nBy the time of the next directors' elections in 1718 politics had changed again, with a schism within the Whigs between Walpole's faction supporting the Prince of Wales and James Stanhope's supporting the King. Argyll and Townshend were dismissed as directors, as were surviving Tories Sir Richard Hoare and George Pitt, and King George I became governor. Four MPs remained directors, as did six people holding government financial offices. The Sword Blade Company remained bankers to the South Sea, and indeed had flourished despite the company's dubious legal position. Blunt and Sawbridge remained South Sea directors, and they had been joined by Gibbon and Child. Caswall had retired as a South Sea director to concentrate on the Sword Blade business. In November 1718 Sub-Governor Bateman and Deputy Governor Shepheard both died. Leaving aside the honorary position of Governor, this left the company suddenly without its two most senior and experienced directors. They were replaced by Sir John Fellowes as Sub-Governor and Charles Joye as Deputy.\n\nIn 1718 war broke out with Spain once again, in the War of the Quadruple Alliance. The company's assets in South America were seized, which the company claimed cost it £300,000. Any prospect of profit from trade, for which the company had purchased ships and had been planning its next ventures, disappeared.\n\nEvents in France now came to influence the future of the company. A Scottish economist and financier, John Law, exiled after killing a man in a duel, had travelled around Europe before settling in France. There he founded a bank, which in December 1718 became the Banque Royale, national bank of France, while Law himself was granted sweeping powers to control the economy of France, which operated largely by royal decree. Law's remarkable success was known in financial circles throughout Europe, and now came to inspire Blunt and his associates to make greater efforts to grow their own concerns.\n\nIn February 1719 Craggs explained to the House of Commons a new scheme for improving the national debt by converting the annuities issued after the 1710 lottery into South Sea stock. By Act of Parliament, the company was granted the right to issue £1,150 of new stock for every £100 per annum of annuity which was surrendered. The government would pay 5% per annum on the stock created, which would halve their annual bill. The conversion was voluntary, amounting to £2.5 million new stock if all converted. The company was to make an additional new loan to the government pro-rata up to £750,000, again at 5%.\n\nThe South Sea company presented the offer to the public in July 1719. In March there was an abortive attempt to restore the Old Pretender, James Edward Stuart, to the throne of Britain, with a small landing of troops in Scotland. They were defeated at the Battle of Glen Shiel on 10 June. The Sword Blade company spread a rumour that the Pretender had been captured, and the general euphoria encouraged the South Sea share price to rise from £100, where it had been in the spring, to £114. Annuitants were still paid out at the same money value of shares, the company keeping the profit from the rise in value before issuing. About two-thirds of the in-force annuities were exchanged.\n\nThe 1719 scheme was a distinct success from the government's perspective, and they sought to repeat it. Negotiations took place between Aislabie and Craggs for the government and Blunt, Cashier Knight and his assistant and Caswell. Janssen, the Sub Governor and Deputy Governor were also consulted but negotiations remained secret from most of the company. News from France was of fortunes being made investing in Law's bank, whose shares had risen sharply. Money was moving around Europe, and other flotations threatened to soak up available capital (two insurance schemes in December 1719 each sought to raise £3 million).\n\nPlans were made for a new scheme to take over most of the unconsolidated national debt of Britain (£30,981,712) in exchange for company shares. Annuities were valued as a lump sum necessary to produce the annual income over the original term at an assumed interest of 5%, which favoured those with shorter terms still to run. The government agreed to pay the same amount to the company for all the fixed term repayable debt as it had been paying before, but after seven years the 5% interest rate would fall to 4% on both the new annuity debt and also that taken over previously. After the first year, the company was to give the government £3 million in four quarterly installments. New stock would be created at a face value equal to the debt, but the share price was still rising and sales of the remaining stock, i.e. the excess of the total market value of the stock over the amount of the debt, would be used to raise the government fee plus a profit for the company. The more the price rose in advance of conversion, the more the company would make. Before the scheme, payments were costing the government £1.5 million per year.\n\nIn summary, the total government debt in 1719 was £50 million:\n\n\nThe purpose of this conversion was similar to the old one: debt holders and annuitants might receive less return in total, but an illiquid investment was transformed into shares which could be readily traded. Shares backed by national debt were considered a safe investment and a convenient way to hold and move money: far easier and safer than metal coins. The only alternative safe asset, land, was much harder to sell and it was legally much more complex to transfer ownership.\n\nThe government received a cash payment and lower overall interest on the debt. Importantly, it also gained control over when the debt had to be repaid, which was not before seven years but then at its discretion. This avoided the risk that debt might become repayable at some future point just when the government needed to borrow more, and could be forced into paying higher interest rates. The payment to the government was to be used to buy in any debt not subscribed to the scheme, which although it helped the government also helped the company by removing possibly competing securities from the market, including large holdings by the Bank of England.\n\nCompany stock was now trading at £123, so the issue amounted to an injection of £5 million of new money into a booming economy just as interest rates were falling. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for Britain at this point was estimated as £64.4 million.\n\nOn 21 January the plan was presented to the board of the South Sea Company, and on 22 January Chancellor of the Exchequer John Aislabie presented it to Parliament. The House was stunned into silence, but on recovering proposed that the Bank of England should be invited to make a better offer. In response, the South Sea increased its cash payment to £3.5 million, while the Bank proposed to undertake the conversion with a payment of £5.5 million and a fixed conversion price of £170 per £100 face value Bank stock. On 1 February, the company negotiators led by Blunt raised their offer to £4 million plus a proportion of £3.5 million depending on how much of the debt was converted. They also agreed that the interest rate would reduce after four years instead of seven, and agreed to sell on behalf of the government £1 million of Exchequer bills (formerly handled by the Bank). The House accepted the South Sea offer. Bank stock fell sharply.\n\nPerhaps the first sign of difficulty came when the South Sea Company announced that its Christmas 1719 dividend would be deferred for 12 months. The company now embarked on a show of gratitude to its friends. Select individuals were sold a parcel of company stock at the current price. The transactions were recorded by Knight in the names of intermediaries, but no payments were received and no stock issued – indeed the company had none to issue until the conversion of debt began. The individual received an option to sell his stock back to the company at any future date at whatever market price might then apply. Shares went to the Craggs: the Elder and the Younger; Lord Gower; Lord Lansdowne; and four other MPs. Lord Sunderland would gain £500 for every pound that stock rose; George I's mistress, their children and Countess Platen £120 per pound rise, Aislabie £200 per pound, Lord Stanhope £600 per pound. Others invested money, including the Treasurer to the Navy, Hampden, who invested £25,000 of government money on his own behalf.\n\nThe proposal was accepted in a slightly altered form in April 1720. Crucial in this conversion was the proportion of holders of irredeemable annuities who could be tempted to convert their securities at a high price for the new shares. (Holders of redeemable debt had effectively no other choice but to subscribe.) The South Sea Company could set the conversion price but could not diverge much from the market price of its shares. The company ultimately acquired 85% of the redeemables and 80% of the irredeemables.\n\nThe company then set to talking up its stock with \"the most extravagant rumours\" of the value of its potential trade in the New World; this was followed by a wave of \"speculating frenzy\". The share price had risen from the time the scheme was proposed: from £128 in January 1720, to £175 in February, £330 in March and, following the scheme's acceptance, £550 at the end of May.\n\nWhat may have supported the company's high multiples (its P/E ratio) was a fund of credit (known to the market) of £70 million available for commercial expansion which had been made available through substantial support, apparently, by Parliament and the King.\n\nShares in the company were \"sold\" to politicians at the current market price; however, rather than paying for the shares, these recipients simply held on to what shares they had been offered, with the option of selling them back to the company when and as they chose, receiving as \"profit\" the increase in market price. This method, while winning over the heads of government, the King's mistress, et al., also had the advantage of binding their interests to the interests of the Company: in order to secure their own profits, they had to help drive up the stock. Meanwhile, by publicising the names of their elite stockholders, the Company managed to clothe itself in an aura of legitimacy, which attracted and kept other buyers.\n\nThe South Sea Company was by no means the only company seeking to raise money from investors in 1720. A large number of other joint-stock companies had been created making extravagant (sometimes fraudulent) claims about foreign or other ventures or bizarre schemes. Others represented potentially sound, although novel, schemes, such as for founding insurance companies. These were nicknamed \"Bubbles\". Some of the companies had no legal basis, while others, such as the Hollow Sword Blade company acting as the South Sea's banker, used existing chartered companies for purposes entirely different from their creation. The York Buildings Company was set up to provide water to London, but was purchased by Case Billingsley who used it to purchase confiscated Jacobite estates in Scotland, which then formed the assets of an insurance company.\n\nOn 22 February 1720 John Hungerford raised the question of bubble companies in the House of Commons, and persuaded the House to set up a committee, which he chaired, to investigate. He identified a number of companies which between them sought to raise £40 million in capital. The committee investigated the companies, establishing a principle that companies should not be operating outside the objects specified in their charters. A potential embarrassment for the South Sea was avoided when the question of the Hollow Sword Blade Company arose. Difficulty was avoided by flooding the committee with MPs who were supporters of the South Sea, and voting down the proposal to investigate the Hollow Sword by 75 to 25. (At this time, committees of the House were either 'Open' or 'secret'. A secret committee was one with a fixed set of members who could vote on its proceedings. By contrast, any MP could join in with an 'open' committee and vote on its proceedings.) Stanhope, who was a member of the committee, received £50,000 of the 'resaleable' South Sea stock from Sawbridge, a director of the Hollow Sword, at about this time. Hungerford had previously been expelled from the Commons for accepting a bribe.\n\nAmongst the bubble companies investigated were two supported by Lords Onslow and Chetwynd respectively, for insuring shipping. These were criticised heavily, and the questionable dealings of the Attorney-General and Solicitor-General in trying to obtain charters for the companies led to both being replaced. However, the schemes had the support of Walpole and Craggs, so that the larger part of the Bubble Act (which finally resulted in June 1720 from the committee's investigations) was devoted to creating charters for the Royal Exchange Assurance Corporation and the London Assurance Corporation. The companies were required to pay £300,000 for the privilege. The Act required that a joint stock company could only be incorporated by Act of Parliament or Royal charter. The prohibition on unauthorised joint stock ventures was not repealed until 1825.\n\nThe passing of the Act gave a boost to the South Sea Company, its shares leaping to £890 in early June. This peak encouraged people to start to sell; to counterbalance this the company's directors ordered their agents to buy, which succeeded in propping the price up at around £750.\n\nThe price of the stock went up over the course of a single year from about £100 to almost £1000 per share. Its success caused a country-wide frenzy—herd behavior—as all types of people, from peasants to lords, developed a feverish interest in investing: in South Seas primarily, but in stocks generally. Among the many companies to go public in 1720 is—famously—one that advertised itself as \"a company for carrying out an undertaking of great advantage, but nobody to know what it is\".\n\nThe price finally reached £1,000 in early August, and the level of selling was such that the price started to fall, dropping back to £100 per share before the year was out. This triggered bankruptcies amongst those who had bought on credit, and increased selling, even short selling (i.e., selling borrowed shares in the hope of buying them back at a profit if the price fell).\n\nAlso, in August 1720, the first of the installment payments of the first and second money subscriptions on new issues of South Sea stock were due. Earlier in the year John Blunt had come up with an idea to prop up the share price: the company would lend people money to buy its shares. As a result, many shareholders could not pay for their shares except by selling them.\n\nFurthermore, a scramble for liquidity appeared internationally as \"bubbles\" were also ending in Amsterdam and Paris. The collapse coincided with the fall of the Mississippi Company of John Law in France. As a result, the price of South Sea shares began to decline.\n\nBy the end of September the stock had fallen to £150. Company failures now extended to banks and goldsmiths as they could not collect loans made on the stock, and thousands of individuals were ruined, including many members of the aristocracy. With investors outraged, Parliament was recalled in December and an investigation began. Reporting in 1721, it revealed widespread fraud amongst the company directors and corruption in the Cabinet. Among those implicated were John Aislabie (the Chancellor of the Exchequer), James Craggs the Elder (the Postmaster General), James Craggs the Younger (the Southern Secretary), and even Lord Stanhope and Lord Sunderland (the heads of the Ministry). Craggs the Elder and Craggs the Younger both died in disgrace; the remainder were impeached for their corruption. The Commons found Aislabie guilty of the \"most notorious, dangerous and infamous corruption\", and he was imprisoned.\n\nThe newly appointed First Lord of the Treasury Robert Walpole successfully restored public confidence in the financial system. However, public opinion, as shaped by the many prominent men who lost money, demanded revenge. Walpole supervised the process which removed all 33 of the company directors and stripped them of, on average, 82% of their wealth. The money went to the victims and the stock of the South Sea Company was divided between the Bank of England and the East India Company. Walpole made sure that King George and his mistresses were protected, and by the margin of three votes he managed to save several key government officials from impeachment. In the process Walpole won plaudits as the savior of the financial system while establishing himself as the dominant figure in British politics; historians credit him for rescuing the Whig government, and indeed the Hanoverian Dynasty, from total disgrace.\n\nJoseph Spence wrote that Lord Radnor reported to him \"When Sir Isaac Newton was asked about the continuance of the rising of South Sea stock... He answered 'that he could not calculate the madness of people'.\" He is also quoted as stating, \"I can calculate the movement of the stars, but not the madness of men\". Newton himself owned nearly £22,000 in South Sea stock in 1722, but it is not known how much he lost, if anything.\n\nThe South Sea Company was created in 1711 to reduce the size of public debts, but was granted the commercial privilege of exclusive rights of trade to the Spanish Indies, based on the treaty of commerce signed by Britain and the Archduke Charles, candidate to the Spanish throne during the War of the Spanish Succession. After Philip V became the King of Spain, Britain obtained at the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht the rights to the slave trade to the Spanish Indies (or Asiento) for 30 years. Those rights were previously held by the Compagnie de Guinée et de l'Assiente du Royaume de la France.\n\nThe South Sea Company board opposed taking on the slave trade that had showed little profitability when chartered companies had engaged in it, but it was the only legal type of commerce with the Spanish Colonies as they were a closed market. To increase the profitability, the Asiento contract included the right to send one yearly 500 ton ship to the fairs at Portobello and Veracruz loaded with duty-free merchandises, called the \"Navío de Permiso\".\nThe Crown of England and the King of Spain were each entitled to 25% of the profits, according to the terms of the contract, that was a copy of the French Asiento contract, but Queen Anne soon renounced her share. The King of Spain did not receive any payments due to him, and this was one of the sources of contention between the Spanish Crown and the South Sea Company.\n\nAs was the case for previous holders of the Asiento, the Portuguese and the French, the profit was not in the slave trade but in the illegal contraband goods smuggled in the slave ships and in the annual ship. Those goods were sold at the Spanish colonies at a handsome price as they were in high demand and constituted unfair competition with taxed goods, proving an important drain on the Spanish Crown trade income.\nThe relationship between the South Sea Company and the Government of Spain was always bad, and worsened with time. The Company complained of searches and seizures of goods, lack of profitability, and confiscation of properties during the wars between Britain and Spain of 1718–1723 and 1727–1729, during which the operations of the Company were suspended. The Government of Spain complained of the illegal trade, failure of the company to present its accounts as stipulated by the contract, and non-payment of the King's share of the profits.\nThese claims were a major cause of deteriorating relations between the two countries in 1738; and although the Prime Minister Walpole opposed war, there was strong support for it from the King, the House of Commons, and a faction in his own Cabinet. Walpole was able to negotiate a treaty with the King of Spain at the Convention of Pardo in January 1739 that stipulated that Spain would pay British merchants £95,000 in compensation for captures and seized goods, while the South Sea Company would pay the Spanish Crown £68,000 in due proceeds from the Asiento. The South Sea Company refused to pay those proceeds and the King of Spain retained payment of the compensation until payment from the South Sea Company could be secured. The break up of relations between the South Sea Company and the Spanish Government was a prelude to the \"Guerra del Asiento\", as the first Royal Navy fleets departed in July 1739 for the Caribbean, prior to the declaration of war, which lasted from October 1739 until 1748. This war is known as the War of Jenkins' Ear.\n\nUnder the Treaty of Tordesillas, Spain was the only European power that could not establish factories in Africa to purchase slaves. The slaves for the Spanish America were provided by companies that were granted exclusive rights to their trade. This monopoly contract was called the slave Asiento. Between 1701 and 1713 the Asiento contract was granted to France. In 1711 Britain had created the South Sea Company to reduce debt and to trade with the Spanish America, but that commerce was illegal without a permit from Spain, and the only existing permit was the Asiento for the slave trade, so at the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713 Britain obtained the transfer of the Asiento contract from French to British hands for the next 30 years.\nThe board of directors was reluctant to take on the slave trade that was not an object of the company and had shown little profitability when carried out by chartered companies, but they finally agreed on 26 March 1714. The Asiento set a sale quota of 4800 units of slaves per year. An adult male slave counted as one unit; females and children counted as fractions of a unit. Initially the slaves were provided by the Royal African Company.\n\nThe South Sea Company established slave reception factories at Cartagena, Colombia, Veracruz, Mexico, Panama, Portobello, La Guaira, Buenos Aires, La Havana and Santiago de Cuba, and slave deposits at Jamaica and Barbados. Despite problems with speculation, the South Sea Company was relatively successful at slave trading and meeting its quota (it was unusual for other, similarly chartered companies to fulfill their quotas). According to records compiled by David Eltis and others, during the course of 96 voyages in 25 years, the South Sea Company purchased 34,000 slaves, of whom 30,000 survived the voyage across the Atlantic. (Thus about 11% of the slaves died on the voyage: a relatively low mortality rate for the Middle Crossing.) The company persisted with the slave trade through two wars with Spain and the calamitous 1720 commercial bubble. The company's trade in human slavery peaked during the 1725 trading year, five years after the bubble burst. Between 1715 and 1739, slave trading constituted the main legal commercial activity of the South Sea Company.\n\nThe slave Asiento contract of 1713 granted a permit to send one vessel of 500 tons per year, loaded with duty-free merchandise to be sold at the fairs of New Spain, Cartagena, and Portobello. This was an unprecedented concession that broke two centuries of strict exclusion of foreign merchants from the Spanish Empire.\n\nThe first ship to head for the Americas, the \"Royal Prince\", was scheduled for 1714 but was delayed until August 1716. In consideration of the three annual ships missed since the date of the Asiento, the permitted tonnage of the next ten ships was raised to 650. Actually only seven annual ships sailed during the Asiento, the last one being the Royal Caroline in 1732. The company's failure to produce accounts for all the annual ships but the first one, and lack of payment of the proceeds to the Spanish Crown from the profits for all the annual ships, resulted in no more permits being granted to the Company's ships after the Royal Caroline trip of 1732–1734.\n\nIn contrast to the legitimate trade in slaves, the regular trade of the annual ships generated healthy returns, in some case profits were over 100%. Accounts for the voyage of the \"Royal Prince\" were not presented until 1733, following continuous demands by Spanish officials. They reported that profits of £43,607. Since the King of Spain was entitled to 25% of the profits, after deducting interest on a loan he claimed £8,678. The South Sea Company never paid the amount due for the first annual ship to the Spanish Crown, nor did it pay any amount for any of the other six trips.\n\nThe Greenland Company had been established by Act of Parliament in 1693 with the object of catching whales in the Arctic. The products of their \"whale-fishery\" were to be free of Customs and other duties. Partly due to maritime disruption caused by wars with France, the Greenland Company failed financially within a few years. In 1722 Henry Elking published a proposal, directed at the governors of the South Sea Company, that they should resume the \"Greenland Trade\" and send ships to catch whales in the Arctic. He made very detailed suggestions about how the ships should be crewed and equipped.\n\nThe British Parliament confirmed that a British Arctic \"whale-fishery\" would continue to benefit from freedom from Customs duties, and in 1724 the South Sea Company decided to commence whaling. They had 12 whale-ships built on the River Thames and these went to the Greenland seas in 1725. Further ships were built in later years, but the venture was not successful. There were hardly any experienced whalemen remaining in Britain, and the Company had to engage Dutch and Danish whalemen for the key posts aboard their ships: for instance all commanding officers and harpooners were hired from the North Frisian island of Föhr. Other costs were badly controlled and the catches remained disappointingly few, even though the Company was sending up to 25 ships to Davis Strait and the Greenland seas in some years. By 1732 the Company had accumulated a net loss of £177,782 from their eight years of Arctic whaling.\n\nThe South Sea Company directors appealed to the British government for further support. Parliament had passed an Act in 1732 that extended the duty-free concessions for a further nine years. In 1733 an Act was passed that also granted a government subsidy to British Arctic whalers, the first in a long series of such Acts that continued and modified the whaling subsidies throughout the 18th century. This, and the subsequent Acts, required the whalers to meet conditions regarding the crewing and equipping of the whale-ships that closely resembled the conditions suggested by Elking in 1722.\nIn spite of the extended duty-free concessions, and the prospect of real subsidies as well, the Court and Directors of the South Sea Company decided that they could not expect to make profits from Arctic whaling. They sent out no more whale-ships after the loss-making 1732 season.\n\nThe company continued its trade (when not interrupted by war) until the end of the Seven Years' War (1756–1763). However, its main function was always managing government debt, rather than trading with the Spanish colonies. The South Sea Company continued its management of the part of the National Debt until it was disestablished in 1853, at which point the debt was reconsolidated. The debt was not paid off by World War I, at which point it was consolidated again, under terms that allowed the government to avoid paying down the principal.\n\nThe armorials of the South Sea Company, according to a grant of arms dated 31 October 1711, were: \"Azure, a globe whereon are represented the Straits of Magellan and Cape Horn all proper and in sinister chief point two herrings haurient in saltire argent crowned or, in a canton the united arms of Great Britain\". Crest: \"A ship of three masts in full sail\". Supporters, dexter: \"The emblematic figure of Britannia, with the shield, lance etc all proper\"; sinister: \"A fisherman completely clothed, with cap boots fishing net etc and in his hand a string of fish, all proper\".\n\nThe South Sea Company had a governor (generally an honorary position); a subgovernor; a deputy governor and 30 directors (reduced in 1753 to 21).\n\nDavid Liss' historical-mystery novel \"A Conspiracy of Paper\", set in 1720 London, is focused on the South Sea Company at the top of its power, its fierce rivalry with the Bank of England and the events leading up to the collapse of the \"bubble\".<br>\n\nCharles Dickens novels are littered with stock-market speculations, villains, swindlers and fictional speculators. Little Dorrit (1857) The financial house of Mr Merdle; Martin Chuzzlewit (1844) 'Anglo-Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Life Company, modeled loosely on the South Sea Bubble,- is in essence a classic Ponzi scheme; Nicholas Nickleby (1839) Ralph Nickleby's great Joint Stock Company, United Metropolitan Improved Hot Muffin and Crumpet Baking and Punctual Delivery Company; David Copperfield (1850) the false accounting by the sycophant Uriah Heep, clerk to lawyer Mr Wickfield;\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48190825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48190825", "title": "Spectrum Management and Telecommunications", "text": "Spectrum Management and Telecommunications\n\nSpectrum Management and Telecommunications program is the Department of Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada that is responsible for setting radio and telecommunications standards and certifying that radio apparatus and equipment meet these standards.\n\nInnovation, Science and Economic Development Canada, together with representatives of the radiocommunication industry, developed the Radiocommunication Regulations.\n\nCanada's Radiocommunication Act and Radiocommunication Regulations require that manufacturers, importers, distributors and sellers must test and label radio apparatus, interference-causing equipment or radio-sensitive equipment.\n\nMore specifically, equipment must be classified as Category I or II and meet all the technical standards that are required for that type of equipment. Category I equipment must obtain a Technical Acceptance Certificate (TAC) from Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada.\n\nIndividuals and corporations that do not comply with the Regulations may face charges, fines or prison.\n\nCategory I equipment includes transmitters, cellular phones and wireless computer links.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28921727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28921727", "title": "Taushiro language", "text": "Taushiro language\n\nTaushiro, also known as Pinche or Pinchi, is a nearly extinct possible language isolate of the Peruvian Amazon near Ecuador. In 2000 SIL counted one speaker in an ethnic population of 20. Documentation was done in the mid-1970s by Neftalí Alicea. The last living speaker of Taushiro, Amadeo García García, was profiled in the \"New York Times\" in 2017.\n\nThe first glossary of Taushiro contained 200 words and were collected by Daniel Velie in 1971.\n\nFollowing Tovar (1961), Loukotka (1968), and Tovar (1984), Kaufman (1994) notes that while Taushiro has been linked to the Zaparoan languages, it shares greater lexical correspondences with Kandoshi and especially with Omurano. In 2007 he classified Taushiro and Omurano (but not Kandoshi) as Saparo–Yawan languages.\n\nIn June 2015, Amadeo García García was residing in \"Intuto on the Tigre River in the northeastern Peruvian region of Loreto.\" Zachary O’Hagan did targeted field work with him on topics such as ethnohistory, genealogy, sociocultural practices, lexicon, and grammar.\n\nAs of December 2017 government linguists from Peru’s Ministry of Culture, working with Amadeo, have created a database of 1,500 Taushiro words, 27 stories, and three songs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857229", "title": "Three Treasures (traditional Chinese medicine)", "text": "Three Treasures (traditional Chinese medicine)\n\nThe Three Treasures or Three Jewels () are theoretical cornerstones in traditional Chinese medicine and practices such as Neidan, Qigong, and T'ai chi. They are also known as Jing Qi Shen (; \"essence, qi, and spirit\"). Despeux summarizes.\n\"Jing\", \"qi\", and \"shen\" are three of the main notions shared by Taoism and Chinese culture alike. They are often referred to as the Three Treasures (\"sanbao\" 三寶), an expression that immediately reveals their importance and the close connection among them. The ideas and practices associated with each term, and with the three terms as a whole, are complex and vary considerably in different contexts and historical periods. (2008:562) \n\nThis Chinese name \"sanbao\" originally referred to the Taoist \"Three Treasures\" (from \"Tao Te Ching\" 67, tr. Waley 1958:225, \"pity\", \"frugality\", and \"refusal to be 'foremost of all things under heaven'\") and subsequently translated the Buddhist Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha). (This is incorrect, The Three Jewels in Buddhism is a completely different philosophy. The Buddha is the teacher, the Dharma is the teaching, and the Sangha is the community. \"Rest in the Three Jewels,\" as a means to enlightenment. They are not bodily qualities as the Three Jewels of Taosim are.)\n\nIn long-established Chinese traditions, the \"Three Treasures\" are the essential energies sustaining human life:\nThis \"jing-qi-shen\" ordering is more commonly used than the variants \"qi-jing-shen\" and \"shen-qi-jing\".\n\nIn \"Neidan\" \"internal alchemy\" practice (Despeux 2008:563), transmuting the Three Treasures is expressed through the phrases \"lianjing huaqi\" 鍊精化氣 \"refining essence into breath\", \"lianqi huashen\" 鍊氣化神 \"refining breath into spirit\", and \"lianshen huanxu\" 鍊神還虛 \"refining spirit and reverting to Emptiness\". Both \"Neidan\" and Neo-Confucianism (Despeux 2008:564-5) distinguish the three between \"xiantian\" 先天 \"prior to heaven\" and \"houtian\" 後天 \"posterior to heaven\", referring to \"Yuanjing\" 元精 \"Original Essence\", \"Yuanqi\" 元氣 \"Original Breath\", and \"yuanshen\" 元神 \"Original Spirit\".\n\nThe (2nd century BCE) \"Huainanzi\" refers to \"qi\" and \"shen\" with \"xing\" \"form; shape; body\".\nThe bodily form [\"xing\"] is the residence of life; the \"qi\" fills this life while \"shen\" controls it. If either of them loses their proper position, they will all come to harm. (1, tr. Englehart 2000:99) \n\nThe Taoist text \"Gaoshang yuhuang xinyin jing\" (高上玉皇心印經, \"Mind-Seal Scripture of the Exalted Jade Sovereign\", or \"Xinyin jing\" \"Mind-Seal Scripture\") is a valuable early source about the Three Treasures (tr. Olson 1993). Probably dating from the Southern Song dynasty (1127-1279), this anonymous text presents a simple and concise discussion of internal alchemy (\"neidan\" 內丹). In particular, it emphasizes the so-called Three Treasures (\"sanbao\" 三寶), namely, vital essence (\"jing\" 精), subtle breath (\"qi\" 氣), and spirit (\"shen\" 神). (Komjathy 2004:29) \nFrederic H. Balfour's (1880:380-381) brief essay about the \"Xinyin jing\" (\"The Imprint of the Heart\") contains the earliest known Western reference to the Three Treasures: \"There are three degrees of Supreme Elixir – the Spirit, the Breath, and the Essential Vigour\".\n\nThe (late 16th century) \"Journey to the West\" novel provides a more recent example when an enlightened Taoist patriarch instructs Sun Wukong \"Monkey\" with a poem that begins:\n\nKnow well this secret formula wondrous and true:\nSpare and nurse the vital forces, this and nothing else.\nAll power resides in the semen [jing], the breath [qi], and the spirit [shen];\nGuard these with care, securely, lest there be a leak.\nLest there be a leak!\nKeep within the body! (tr. Yu 1977:88)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "532998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=532998", "title": "Warmiak", "text": "Warmiak\n\nThe Warmiak are a Polish ethnic group from Warmia who are mostly Roman Catholics and who speak their own dialect of Polish, called \"gwara warmińska\" (see: Dialects of the Polish language).\n\nBetween the 14th and 17th centuries, settlers from northern Mazovia moved to former territories of Old Prussians, following conquests by the Teutonic Order, and the erection of the Monastic state of the Teutonic Knights.\n\nThe bishopric of Warmia became in 1466 an autonomous part of Royal Prussia, and remained part of Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth until 1772 (see: Partitions of Poland). While Mazurs in the neighboring Ducal Prussia became Protestants when that Duchy adopted Lutheranism in the 16th century, most Warmiaks, populating the areas around Olsztyn, remained Catholics. \n\nDuring World War II, the Warmiaks were persecuted by the Nazi Germany government, which wanted to erase all aspects of Polish culture and Polish language in Warmia. After the war, due to their Polish roots, they were not victims of Expulsion of Germans after World War II, but in the course of the time, large numbers of Warmiaks decided to leave their native land and settle in more prosperous West Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "12989685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12989685", "title": "Wesley Grapp", "text": "Wesley Grapp\n\nWesley Grapp served as head of the Los Angeles Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) office. He was the agent who carried out Hoover's orders to give FBI information to University of California senior regent Edwin W. Pauley. Pauley allegedly had a history of political connections with the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), forerunner of today's CIA, as well as a close association with Will Jenkinson, who was later to serve as director of the Central Intelligence Agency, (1953–1961).\n\nGrapp left the FBI in 1972 and headed security for Flying Tigers Airlines. He is retired.\n\n"}
{"id": "10319712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10319712", "title": "Witeck Communications", "text": "Witeck Communications\n\nOn January 1, 2012, Witeck-Combs Communications, Inc. officially was renamed Witeck Communications, Inc. with the departure of Wesley Combs who accepted a senior management role with Accenture, and subsequently with the Boston Consulting Group. Bob Witeck remains the sole principal of the more than two-decade old independent, consulting practice based in Washington, D.C.\n\nWiteck Communications, Inc. is a Washington, D.C.-based communications firm that provides strategic public relations and marketing communications services for corporate and non-profit clients. Witeck Communications specializes in the Gay and Lesbian Consumer Market; health, disability and social issues; and reaching the Washington, D.C. market. The company frequently represents Fortune 500 companies that serve the multi-billion-dollar gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender market.\n\nFor years Bob Witeck and Wesley Combs volunteered and worked for LGBT civil rights causes and AIDS benefits. They observed that these organizations often lacked the professional expertise, skills and business savvy to grow and prosper. They saw a disconnect between the gay community and the professional world and decided to co-found Witeck-Combs Communications, Inc. as a bridge to connect these two worlds. They believed that GLBT market visibility also was key to meaningful political and social change.\n\nIn 1993, Bob Witeck and Wesley Combs founded Witeck-Combs Communications and immediately began work on two projects that would shape their business. The first was to shape and promote National Coming Out Day as an educational project of the Human Rights Campaign. Witeck-Combs Communications helped openly gay (and lesbian) actors Amanda Bearse and Dan Butler to communicate honestly to celebrate and promote National Coming Out Day by serving as the first celebrity spokespersons for the Human Rights Campaign Fund (since renamed the Human Rights Campaign (www.hrc.org). In all of the posters, publicity and public appearances, Dan and Amanda helped popularize the expression, \"I'm not a straight person, but I play one on TV.\"\n\nThe second client project that shaped Witeck-Combs Communications' reputation was their strategy in 1994 to withstand backlash and a possible LGBT consumer boycott of American Airlines and to help foster an airline employee education program that was sensitive to people living with HIV/AIDS and LGBT people. In June 1993, many LGBT Americans traveled to the March on Washington. The controversy erupted when a member of an American Airlines' flight crew recommended that the pillows and blankets used by group of GLBT passengers be thrown away because of fears they were contaminated with HIV, the virus which causes AIDS3. \n\nThis incident was compounded by a separate episode in 1993, when a passenger living with AIDS was removed insensitively from an American Airlines flight because the flight crew deemed the passenger much too ill to travel. Witeck-Combs Communications was hired to stem the tide of frustration and critical news coverage from the Gay Community. Witeck-Combs began by advising on employee training programs to ensure that each employee would be appropriately sensitive to LGBT customers and those living with HIV and AIDS, and to distinguish health issues from sexual orientation. In addition, Witeck-Combs Communications went farther to counsel American Airlines on its communications strategy combined with its policies and practices to ensure they are respectful of people living HIV/AIDS as well as American's LGBT passengers and employees. American Airlines was among the first airlines to include sexual orientation and transgender identity nondiscrimination protections into its workplace policies. American Airlines was the first airline to implement equal partnership benefits for same-sex partners as are provided to married spouses. Witeck-Combs Communications continues to work with American Airlines to reach out to the gay market and to enhance American's longstanding reputation for inclusion, fairness and acceptance on all levels.\n\nWiteck-Combs Communications has teamed with both Harris Interactive and Marketresearch.com to understand the minds, preferences, demographics and purchasing power of the LGBT individuals through authentic and original market research. Such research has shown that:\n\n\nIn 2003, American Demographics Magazine picked Witeck and Combs as two of twenty-five people in America over the past 25 years who have done the most to shape the trends, knowledge and demographics of all Americans for their work on LGBT marketing and media relations.\n\nAfter thirteen years of growing LGBT market expertise, the two principals were approached in 2006 by Kaplan Publishing to share their unique lessons and experience, and to co-author the first business book on LGBT marketing entitled, \"Business Inside Out: Capturing Millions of Brand Loyal Gay Consumers.\" Their friend and mentor, Allan Gilmour, former Chief Financial Officer for Ford Motor Company and an openly gay former business executive, wrote the books' foreword.\n\n"}
{"id": "28186932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28186932", "title": "Woodstock Reunion 1979", "text": "Woodstock Reunion 1979\n\nWoodstock Reunion 1979 was a concert on Saturday at Parr Meadows racetrack in the hamlet of Yaphank in the town of Brookhaven, Suffolk County, Long Island, New York. It had an audience of about 18,000 - 40,000 (reports vary) and was organized for the 10th anniversary of the original Woodstock Festival, by concert promoter Richard Nader. It was one of several Woodstock reunion events that year.\n\nPerformers included Paul Butterfield and Rick Danko, Canned Heat, Richie Havens, Jorma Kaukonen, Country Joe McDonald, John Sebastian, Michael Shrieve, Stephen Stills, Leslie West, and Johnny Winter.\n\nThis reunion concert faced organizational difficulties, much like the original Woodstock, though on a far smaller scale. On Friday the 7th, the day before the show, over 1000 young people showed up and camped out at the site; prompting complaints from neighbours. The next day there was a delay in opening the venue gates, due to security concerns by the concert-promoter; which almost resulted in a revocation of the permit and cancellation of the show by local officials.\n\nRecordings of the concert were broadcast on the \"King Biscuit Flower Hour\". A bootleg CD titled Live at Parr Meadows also exists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56065234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56065234", "title": "World Inequality Report", "text": "World Inequality Report\n\nWorld Inequality Report is a report by the World Inequality Lab at the Paris School of Economics that provides estimates of global income and wealth inequality based on the most recent findings compiled by the World Wealth and Income Database (WID). WID, also referred to as WID.world, is an open source database, that is part of an international collaborative effort of over a hundred researchers in five continents. The World Inequality Report includes discussions on potential future academic research as well as content useful for public debates and policy related to economic inequality. The first report, entitled World Inequality Report 2018, which was released on December 14, 2017 at the Paris School of Economics during the first WID.world Conference, was compiled by Facundo Alvaredo, Lucas Chancel, Thomas Piketty, Emmanuel Saez, and Gabriel Zucman based on WID data. The 300-page report cautions that since 1980, around the globe, there has been an increase in the gap between rich and poor. In Europe, the increase in inequality increased more moderately while in North America and Asia, the increase was rapid. In the Middle East, Africa, and Brazil, income inequality did not increase but remained at very high levels.\n\nIn an interview with \"Quartz\", Piketty predicted that if the \"world follows the trajectory of the US\" inequality would get much worse.\n\nThe report by the World Inequality Lab at the Paris School of Economics, is \"based on the latest evidence collected for the World Wealth and Income Database, a massive project maintained by more than 100 researchers in more than 70 countries.\"\n\nResearchers worked on an international collaborative effort to extend the existing database, the World Top Incomes Database (WTID) to the World Wealth and Income Database (WID) which provides data on both distribution of income and wealth, \"as well as the distribution of different forms of capital assets, in the analyzed countries\". The WTID \"generally focused on the concentration of wealth among the top decile in a given population.\" The WID is an \"information hub\" informing academic research and the general public on income and wealth inequality using \"novel and varied data\"\n\nBy 2015, the WID provided data series on the distribution of income and wealth in thirty-three countries mainly from the Americas and Europe. At that time there the intention was to \"include data series for an additional forty countries.\" The first WID in 2013, which was placed in an open source repository in September 2013, was compiled by Facundo Alvaredo, Anthony B. Atkinson, Thomas Piketty, Emmanuel Saez, and Gabriel Zucman.\n\nFrom 2016 to 2017, through a 2015 Centers for Equitable Growth (CEG), Piketty, Saez, and Zucman studied Distributional National Accounts (DINA) for the United States. \"DINA are defined as distributional statistics of pre-tax and post-tax income and wealth consistent with National Income and Product Accounts, and the Flow of Funds of the United States.\"\n\nIn 2018 Facundo Alvaredo, Lucas Chancel, Thomas Piketty, Emmanuel Saez, and Gabriel Zucmanon compiled the first report, the \"World Inequality Report 2018\" which was released on December 14, 2017 at the Paris School of Economics during the first WID.world Conference.\n\nThe five part 300-page report discusses \"the WID.world project and the measurement of economic inequality in Part I, trends in global income inequality in Part II, public versus private capital dynamics in Part III, trends in global wealth inequality in Part IV , tackling Economic Inequality in Part V. Methodological \"details on how estimations were constructed are available at the report's website\". According to the \"New York Times\", \"Policy, it turns out, matters. More aggressive redistribution through taxes and transfers has spared Europe from the acute disparities that Americans have grown used to. Unequal access to education is helping reproduce inequality in the United States down the generations.\" The \"Times\" article also noted that, \"China's strategy based on low-skill manufacturing for export, and underpinned by aggressive investment in infrastructure, has proven more effective at raising living standards for the bottom half of the population than India's more inward-looking strategy, which has limited the benefits of globalization to the well-educated elite.\" Tetlow of the \"Financial Times\" described inequality as the \"defining characteristic of the age\" as The rich get richer and the poor get poorer. The \"India Times\" article drew attention to the way in which \"[d]eregulation and opening-up reforms in India since 1980s have led to substantial increase in inequality so much that top 0.1% of earners has continued to capture more growth than all those in the bottom 50% combined.\" The WIR reported that, \"Income inequality in India has reached historically high levels. In 2014, the share of national income accruing to India's top 1% of earners was 22%, while the share of the top 10% was around 56%.\"\n\n\"Quartz\" cited the report, \"[S]ince 1980 the top 0.1% have captured as much income growth as the entire bottom half of world's (adult) population. And for the group of people in between the bottom 50% and top 1%—mostly the lower- and middle-income groups in North America and Europe—income growth has been either sluggish or flat.\" The WIR 2018 shows that, \"The gap between rich and poor has increased in nearly every region in the world over the past few decades.\" Since \"1980, income inequality has increased rapidly in North America and Asia, increased more moderately in Europe, and stabilized at very high levels in the Middle East, Africa, and Brazil.\"\n\nThe conference held on December 14 and December 15, was sponsored by the Paris School of Economics, the Institute for New Economic Thinking, the Washington Center for Equitable Growth (CEG), the Ford Foundation, and the European Research Council. The release of the first issue of the World Inequality Report #wir2018 on Thursday 14th (9.30 am – 1 pm). The executive committee of the conference included Alvaredo, Chancel, Piketty, Saez, Zucman, the WID.world and the World Inequality Lab Executive Committee. The program included the release of the report that would \"provide global estimates of income and wealth inequality drawing on the latest evidence gathered in WID.world\" [and ] \"discuss implications for future research and the global policy debate on rising inequality\". There was a session honoring Tony Atkinson and presentations of \"research papers on income and wealth inequality\" and \"on the DINA-Distributional National Accounts agenda\".\n\nWithin days of its December 14, 2017 publication online, the report was featured in articles in the \"New York Times\", \"The Guardian\", \"Quartz\",\"Financial Times\", the \"India Times\", and Associated Press via ABC News.\n\nIn the interview with \"Quartz\", Piketty warned of the impediments to getting \"a comprehensive picture of wealth\", such as tax havens. Piketty observed that \"there are financial and political forces that have a vested interest in keeping this information secret,\" noting the \"paradox of today's globalized economy\" where \"we are supposed to be in the era of big data and transparency, and we see that we still don't have access to all the data sources we would need.\"\n"}
