{"id": "38419239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38419239", "title": "17th century in philosophy", "text": "17th century in philosophy\n\nThis is a timeline of philosophy in the 17th century (17th-century philosophy).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37597397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37597397", "title": "Almagest (journal)", "text": "Almagest (journal)\n\nAlmagest is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes contributions evaluating scientific developments. \"Almagest\" addresses the philosophical assumptions behind scientific ideas and developments and the reciprocal influence between historical context and these phenomena. The journal is abstracted in the Philosophy Research Index, STEP - Science and Technology in the European Periphery and LibTOC.\n"}
{"id": "1910482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1910482", "title": "Amy Gutmann", "text": "Amy Gutmann\n\nAmy Gutmann (born November 19, 1949) is the eighth president of the University of Pennsylvania, an award-winning political theorist, the author of 16 books, and a university professor. She is the current Christopher H. Browne Distinguished Professor of Political Science in Penn's School of Arts and Sciences and a professor of communication in the Annenberg School for Communication, with secondary faculty appointments in philosophy in the School of Arts and Sciences and the Graduate School of Education. In November 2016, the school announced that her contract had been extended to 2022 which will make her the longest-serving president in the history of the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nGutmann's professional biography also includes more than two decades at Princeton including as that university's provost and Laurance S. Rockefeller University Professor of Politics. While there, she founded Princeton's ethics center, the University Center for Human Values. Her published works span the fields of politics, ethics, education, and philosophy. She has held board positions and advisory roles in numerous public and private organizations ranging from the Association of American Universities and the National Constitution Center to the Vanguard Group, and the White House. \n\nShe was born in Brooklyn, New York, the only child of Kurt and Beatrice Gutmann. She was raised in Monroe, New York, a small town outside New York City.\n\nHer father was the youngest of five children in an Orthodox Jewish family in Feuchtwangen, Germany. He was living near Nuremberg, Germany, when Adolf Hitler ascended to power. He fled Nazi Germany in 1934 as a college student. After being denied asylum in the US, he brought his entire family, including four siblings, to join him in Bombay, India, where he founded a metal fabricating factory. Kurt Gutmann was still living in India in 1948 when he came to New York City for vacation. While there he attended a benefit at a Manhattan hotel, Essex House, where he met Beatrice, Amy's future mother, and the two were married weeks later.\nGutmann told Adam Bryant of \"The New York Times\" in June 2011:\n\nGutmann graduated from Monroe-Woodbury High School in Monroe, New York. She then entered Radcliffe College of Harvard University in 1967 on a scholarship as a math major with sophomore standing. She received an A.B. \"magna cum laude\" from Radcliffe College in 1971, followed by a M.Sc. in political science from the London School of Economics in 1972, and a Ph.D. in political science from Harvard University in 1976. She is the first in her family to graduate from college.\n\nGutmann taught at Princeton University from 1976 to 2004. In 1990, she became the first Laurance S. Rockefeller University Professor at Princeton and the founding director of its University Center for Human Values, among the first and best-endowed university-wide multi-disciplinary ethics centers in the world. As provost at Princeton University from 2001 to 2004, she oversaw Princeton's plan to expand the undergraduate student body by 10% and spearheaded the recruitment from Harvard of star professor K. Anthony Appiah (co-author with Gutmann of \"Color Conscious: The Political Morality of Race\").\n\nIn her 2004 inaugural address Gutmann launched the Penn Compact, her vision for making Penn both a global leader in teaching, research, and professional practice; and a dynamic agent of social, economic, and civic progress.\n\nIn 2017 she renewed and updated her vision with the Penn Compact 2022, recommitting the university to these ideals and outlining the next steps: First, to increase inclusion at the University with increases in faculty and student diversity. Second, to integrate knowledge across academic disciplines with a strong emphasis on innovation: Penn was named #4 in Reuters' Top 100 World Innovative Universities in 2017, up from #8 in 2016. A third priority through the Compact is to have an impact locally, nationally, and globally to bring the benefits of Penn's research, teaching, and service to individuals and communities at home and around the world, most recently illustrated by one of Penn's biomedical research and clinical breakthroughs, approved by the FDA to treat cancer using a patient's own immune system. The \"Wall Street Journal\" also noted that \"'Today the university [Penn] lays claim to having incubated the world's biggest cancer breakthrough.\"\n\nAs president, Gutmann has overseen Penn's largest fundraising campaign ever, Making History. Launched in 2007, the Making History Campaign raised a record $4.3 billion, exceeding its goal by more than $800 million. It achieved its $3.5 billion target 16 months ahead of its December 31, 2012 conclusion. It was an unusually broad-based campaign, attracting gifts from nearly 327,000 donors. Gutmann is the only Penn president to lead two fundraising campaigns: the second, Power of Penn, was launched in March 2018 with a goal of $4.1 billion and priorities including a \"Penn First Plus\" initiative, targeted to support first-generation, low-income students. \n\nGutmann has been a leading national advocate for financial aid based on need to promote socioeconomic diversity in higher education. Gutmann made Penn one of the handful of universities in the country that substitute grants for loans for any undergraduate student with financial need. In September 2009, for the first time in Penn's history, all undergraduates eligible for financial aid received grants rather than loans in their aid packages. Students from typical families with income less than $40,000 paid no tuition, fees, room or board. Students from typical families with incomes less than $90,000 paid no tuition and fees. In 2017, one out of eight incoming Penn students were the first in their families to attend college, up from one out of 20 in 2004. She and her husband Michael Doyle have also funded an endowed undergraduate scholarship and an undergraduate research fund at Penn. In 2017, they committed an additional more than $1 million for scholarships, supporting multiple students and matching funds for other donors. \n\nIn 2014, Gutmann announced Penn Compact 2020 initiatives to create up to 50 new endowed professorships utilizing matching donor funds, and to raise an additional $240 million for undergraduate financial aid on top of the $360 million raised for undergraduate aid during the recently completed Making History campaign. Additionally, Gutmann announced unique and unprecedented awards for undergraduate students \"with the most promising plans to improve local, national, or global conditions in the year after their graduation\".\n\nIn March 2015, Gutmann announced the selection of five students (four projects) as winners of Penn's inaugural President's Engagement Prize. The largest of their kind in higher education, the President's Engagement Prizes provide up to $150,000 annually for graduating seniors to design and implement impactful local, national, and global engagement projects. In its coverage of the first awards, \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" stated, \"Penn grads win chance to change the world.\" In October 2015, she announced Penn's President's Innovation Prize, a corollary to the Engagement Prize that is focused on commercial ventures; the first winners were announced in April 2016. Shadrack Frimpong, a 2017 alumnus, used his President's Engagement Prize to start a school for girls, many of whom did not have access to education. Frimpong returned to Penn in 2018 to complete a degree in non-profit leadership and management at Penn to continue his work.\n\nSince arriving at Penn, Gutmann has also spearheaded a major campus development plan, Penn Connects, that includes that Penn purchased from the U.S. Postal Service along the Schuylkill River, which opened as Penn Park in September 2011. Penn Connects is designed to boost the economic, educational and social capacity of Philadelphia and to create seamless gateways between West Philadelphia and Center City across the Schuylkill River.\n\nPenn began an expansion east of the Schuylkill River with the purchase of the DuPont Marshall Laboratory in September 2010. Gutmann said that the Marshall Lab property has \"infinite possibilities\" as a place to nurture startups and \"technology transfer\", where faculty with \"great discoveries can attract venture capital\" and bring ideas to market.\n\nIn Fall 2016, Penn opened its Pennovation Center, the anchor of a 23-acre site that the university has dubbed Pennovation Works, on a Grays Ferry site along the south bank of the Schuylkill which was once home to the DuPont Co.'s Marshall Labs (where workers discovered the substance that led to the development of Teflon). The $35 million project is about 1 1/2 miles from the center of Penn's West Philadelphia campus. A large, red-letter sign reads \"Pennovation\" over the three-story, 58,000-square foot facility. Pennovation includes an addition that resembles a crystal formation, representing the \"crystallization of ideas\", and architecture critic Inga Saffron says that its unique design \"announces the future\", rather than harkening back to the past. Johnson & Johnson announced in July 2018 that Pennovation Works would house J&J's first U.S.-based JPOD, a networking hub that seeks to connect J&J researchers and the local life sciences community. With the announcement, J&J joined the ranks of global telecom giant Qualcomm and chocolate maker Hershey’s, which also selected Pennovation Works to open Philadelphia operations. \n\nOn December 8, 2014, the \"Daily Pennsylvanian\" reported that student protesters concerned about the death of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri, disrupted a holiday party for students at Gutmann's home. As a gesture of support for the students' cause, Gutmann joined them in lying on the ground to symbolize the four-and-a-half hours that Brown's body was left lying on the street in Ferguson after his death. Members of the Penn police force publicly responded to the show of support, with the head of the police union writing a public letter criticizing the move and the chief of police department responding with a letter defending Gutmann's actions.\n\nOn May 8, 2012, Penn announced that Gutmann's contract had been renewed through 2019. In announcing the extension, David L. Cohen, chair of Penn's Board of Trustees, stated that Penn's \"Trustees feel very strongly that Amy Gutmann is simply the best university president in the country. Under her superb leadership, Penn is a stronger and more vibrant institution than at any time in its storied history.\" In November 2016 Cohen, still Board Chairman, announced that Gutmann's contract would be extended until 2022, making her the longest-serving president ever at Penn.\n\nIn 2013 Gutmann was the highest paid female university president in the United States, making more than two million dollars in total compensation.\n\nThrough her writings, Gutmann has consistently sought to bridge theory and policy to advance the core values of a civil democratic society: liberty, opportunity and mutual respect. Her first major contribution to political philosophy was her book \"Democratic Education\" (1987; revised 1999). The book addresses the central questions in the political theory of education: How should a democratic society make decisions about education? What should children be taught? How should citizens be educated? It was reviewed in \"Ethics\" as \"the finest contribution to the literature on democratic education of the last seventy years\" and fostered a revival of interest in the relationship between democracy and education.\n\nThe book also takes on some contemporary scholarly debates: What is the appropriate response of democratic education to the challenge of multiculturalism? Should schools try to cultivate patriotic or cosmopolitan sentiments among students?\n\nGutmann's second major contribution to political philosophy is a theory of deliberative democracy that she developed in collaboration with Harvard political scientist Dennis Thompson. \"Democracy and Disagreement\" (1996) calls for more reasoned and respectful argument in everyday politics. Deliberation can inform decision making through reasoned argument and develop society's collective capacity to pursue justice while finding mutually acceptable terms of social cooperation—even when disagreements persist.\n\n\"Democracy and Disagreement\" has been praised as an effective remedy for polarized politics and criticized as impractical, as evidenced in a collection of pro and con essays published in \"Deliberative Politics\", edited by Stephen Macedo. Defenders argue that more and better political deliberation can help all citizens. In her work Gutmann has applied the ideas of deliberative democracy to the U.S. electoral process, President Obama's Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues, the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, and healthcare organization in the United Kingdom.\n\nGutmann's third major contribution to political philosophy is her analysis of group identity and its intersection with justice. In \"Identity in Democracy\" (2003), Gutmann argues that identity groups as such are neither friends nor enemies of democratic justice. She analyzes the legitimate but also problematic parts played by group identity in democratic politics and draws distinctions among the various types of identity group politics. She further developed this perspective in her nationally recognized 2018 Penn Commencement speech, \"Think Uniquely, Stand United,\" in which she said that \". . . what makes us unique and what unites us are not starkly opposed. Uniqueness and unity are the twin pillars of a strong pluralism. We thrive when we combine unity of shared values with our unique perspectives on life. It has never been more important that we think uniquely while we stand united.\" \n\nIn May 2012, Gutmann published her 16th book, \"The Spirit of Compromise: Why Governing Demands It and Campaigning Undermines It\" (Princeton University Press), with co-author Dennis Thompson of Harvard. The authors posit that the difficulty of compromise is built into the democratic process itself, but so is the need for it. A better understanding and appreciation of compromise might be especially useful in this time of political polarization. Paul Starr of \"The New Republic\" said \"The Spirit\":\n\nProvide[s] grist for thinking through the difficulties of compromise in [domestic policy], from tragic choices at desperate moments of history to the routine nastiness in American public life today... Until recently, who would have thought it necessary to offer Americans advice in the ways of compromise? We used to enjoy a reputation for being a practical-minded people, our politicians being regarded as an all-too-flexible species. But something has changed, and according to Gutmann and Thompson, the change has to do with the relation of campaigning and governing... Gutmann and Thompson end their book with recommendations to strengthen the spirit and practice of compromise.\"\n\nJudy Woodruff of the PBS Newshour called the book \"a clear-eyed examination of the forces that bring warring political leaders together or keep them apart. I wish every policymaker would read it\".\n\nGutmann's 17th book, co-authored with Jonathan Moreno, \"Everybody Wants to Go to Heaven, but Nobody Wants to Die\", will be published in 2019 by W.W. Norton.\n\nGutmann serves on the board of directors of The Vanguard Group Corporation. From 2005 to 2009, Gutmann served on the National Security Higher Education Advisory Board, a committee that advises the FBI on national security issues relating to academia.\n\nIn 2009, Barack Obama appointed Gutmann chair of the new Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues, and reappointed her in early 2012. With a notably diverse membership—including experts from philosophy, medicine, nursing, law, religion, and engineering—the Bioethics Commission has issued seven reports on a wide range of challenging issues including protections for adult and pediatric participants in medical research, and the ethics of genomics and neuroscience. The commission has championed an open and deliberative approach—its nationwide meetings all are open to the public and streamed live on the internet—and all its recommendations to the president have been unanimous. Gutmann is also a member of the Asia Society's Task Force on U.S. policy toward India and the Global University Leaders Forum (GULF), which convenes at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.\n\nGutmann is also among the leaders of a select group of presidents of research universities throughout the world that advise the United Nations Secretary-General on a range of global issues, including academic freedom, mass migration, international development, and the social responsibilities of universities, called the Global Colloquium of University Presidents.\n\nShe also serves on the board of trustees of the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, a museum dedicated to the U.S. Constitution, and on the board of the Berggruen Institute, based in Los Angeles. In addition, she is a member of the American Talent Initiative, which works to collaboratively increase access to higher education for highly talented, low-income students, and a member of the Knight Commission on Trust, Media and Democracy.\n\nIn 2011, Gutmann was appointed to the Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences, established by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn 2014, the Association of American Universities elected Gutmann as chair of its board of directors for a one-year term. As AAU chair, Gutmann served as a spokesperson for the association, particularly on issues of special concern to research universities. \n\nGutmann is married to Michael Doyle, professor of law and international affairs at Columbia University. They have one daughter, Abigail Doyle, the A. Barton Hepburn Professor of Chemistry at Princeton University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "314182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314182", "title": "Apollonius of Rhodes", "text": "Apollonius of Rhodes\n\nApollonius of Rhodes ( \"Apollṓnios Rhódios\"; ; fl. first half of 3rd century BCE), was an ancient Greek author, best known for the \"Argonautica\", an epic poem about Jason and the Argonauts and their quest for the Golden Fleece. The poem is one of the few extant examples of the epic genre and it was both innovative and influential, providing Ptolemaic Egypt with a \"cultural mnemonic\" or national \"archive of images\", and offering the Latin poets Virgil and Gaius Valerius Flaccus a model for their own epics. His other poems, which survive only in small fragments, concerned the beginnings or foundations of cities, such as Alexandria and Cnidusplaces of interest to the Ptolemies, whom he served as a scholar and librarian at the Library of Alexandria. A literary dispute with Callimachus, another Alexandrian librarian/poet, is a topic much discussed by modern scholars since it is thought to give some insight into their poetry, although there is very little evidence that there ever was such a dispute between the two men. In fact almost nothing at all is known about Apollonius and even his connection with Rhodes is a matter for speculation. Once considered a mere imitator of Homer, and therefore a failure as a poet, his reputation has been enhanced by recent studies, with an emphasis on the special characteristics of Hellenistic poets as scholarly heirs of a long literary tradition writing at a unique time in history.\n\nThe most reliable information we have about ancient poets is largely drawn from their own works. Unfortunately, Apollonius of Rhodes reveals nothing about himself. Most of the biographical material comes from four sources: two are texts entitled \"Life of Apollonius\" found in the scholia on his work (\"Vitae\" A and B); a third is an entry in the 10th-century encyclopaedia the \"Suda\"; and fourthly a 2nd-century BCE papyrus, P.Oxy. 1241, which provides names of several heads of the Library of Alexandria. Other scraps can be gleaned from miscellaneous texts. The reports from all the above sources however are scanty and often self-contradictory.\n\n\n\nAncient biographies often represent famous poets as going into exile to escape their ungrateful fellow citizens. Thus for example Homer was said to have left Cyme because the government there would not support him at public expense (\"Vit. Herod.\" 13-14), Aeschylus left Athens for Sicily because Athenians valued him less than some other poets (\"Vit. Aesch.\"), while Euripides fled to Macedonia because of humiliation by comic poets (\"Vit. Eur.\"). Similarly \"Vitae\" A and B tell us that Apollonius moved to Rhodes because his work was not well received in Alexandria. According to B, he redrafted the \"Argonautica\" in such fine style at Rhodes that he was able to return to Alexandria in triumph, where he was rewarded with a post in the library and finally a place in the cemetery next to Callimachus. These stories were probably invented to account for the existence of a second edition of \"Argonautica\", indicated by variant readings in ancient manuscripts.\n\nUntil recently modern scholarship has made much of a feud between Callimachus and Apollonius. The evidence partly rests on an elegiac epigram in the Palatine Anthology, attributed to \"Apollonius the grammarian\". It blames Callimachus for some unstated offense and mocks both him and his most famous poem, the \"Aetia\" (\"Causes\"):\nAncient sources describe Callimachus's poem \"Ibis\" — which does not survive — as a polemic and some of them identified Apollonius as the target. These references conjure up images of a sensational literary feud between the two figures. Such a feud is consistent with what we know of Callimachus's taste for scholarly controversy and it might even explain why Apollonius departed for Rhodes. Thus there arises \"a romantic vision of scholarly warfare in which Apollonius was finally driven out of Alexandria by a triumphant Callimachus\". However, both of the \"Lives\" of Apollonius stress the friendship between the poets, the second \"Life\" even saying they were buried together; moreover Callimachus's poem \"Ibis\" is known to have been deliberately obscure and some modern scholars believe the target was never meant to be identified. There is still not a consensus about the feud, but most scholars of Hellenistic literature now believe it has been enormously sensationalised, if it happened at all.\n\nApollonius was among the foremost Homeric scholars in the Alexandrian period. He wrote the period's first scholarly monograph on Homer, critical of the editions of the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" published by Zenodotus, his predecessor as head of the Library of Alexandria. \"Argonautica\" seems to have been written partly as an experimental means of communicating his own researches into Homer's poetry. It has even been called \"a kind of poetic dictionary of Homer\", without at all detracting from its merits as poetry. He has been credited with scholarly prose works on Archilochus and on problems in Hesiod. He is also considered to be one of the period's most important authors on geography, though approaching the subject differently from Eratosthenes, his successor at the library and a radical critic of Homer's geography. It was a time when the accumulation of scientific knowledge was enabling advances in geographical studies, as represented by the activities of Timosthenes, a Ptolemaic admiral and a prolific author. Apollonius set out to integrate new understandings of the physical world with the mythical geography of tradition and his \"Argonautica\" was, in that sense, a didactic epic on geography, again without detracting from its merits as poetry.\n\nThe \"Argonautica\" differs in some respects from traditional or Homeric Greek epic, though Apollonius certainly used Homer as a model. The \"Argonautica\" is shorter than Homer's epics, with four books totalling fewer than 6000 lines, while the \"Iliad\" runs to more than 16,000. Apollonius may have been influenced here by Callimachus's brevity, or by Aristotle’s demand for \"poems on a smaller scale than the old epics, and answering in length to the group of tragedies presented at a single sitting\" (the \"Poetics\").\n\nApollonius' epic also differs from the more traditional epic in its weaker, more human protagonist Jason and in its many digression into local custom, aetiology, and other popular subjects of Hellenistic poetry. Apollonius also chooses the less shocking versions of some myths, having Medea, for example, merely watch the murder of Apsyrtus instead of murdering him herself. The gods are relatively distant and inactive throughout much of the epic, following the Hellenistic trend to allegorise and rationalise religion. Heterosexual loves such as Jason's are more emphasized than homosexual loves such as that of Heracles and Hylas, another trend in Hellenistic literature. Many critics regard the love of Medea and Jason in the third book as the best written and most memorable episode.\n\nOpinions on the poem have changed over time. Some critics in antiquity considered it mediocre. Recent criticism has seen a renaissance of interest in the poem and an awareness of its qualities: numerous scholarly studies are published regularly, its influence on later poets like Virgil is now well recognised, and any account of the history of epic poetry now routinely includes substantial attention to Apollonius.\n\nA handful of fragments are all that survive of his other work, mostly \"ktiseis\" () or 'foundation-poems', apparently dealing with the mythical origins of cities, a theme that Apollonius also touches on in \"Argonautica\" (as for example in the foundation of Cius, 1.1321-23). The fragments have been given considerable attention recently, with speculation about their authenticity, about the subject matter and treatment of the original poems, their geo-political significance for Ptolemaic Egypt, and how they relate to \"Argonautika\".\n\n\nApollonius's poetic skills and technique have only recently come to be appreciated, with critical recognition of his successful fusing of poetry and scholarship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6813645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6813645", "title": "Augustin Bonnetty", "text": "Augustin Bonnetty\n\nAugustin Bonnetty (born Entrevaux (dept. of Basses-Alpes), 9 May 1798, died at Paris, 26 March 1879) was a French thinker and writer who founded and edited the from 1830 until his death.\n\nIn 1815, Bonnetty entered Digne seminary and studied for the priesthood. After completing his philosophical and theological studies, as he was too young to be ordained, he went to Marseilles as a private tutor. He soon felt that his mission was to use science and philosophy in the defense of the Church and to remain a layman.\n\nIn 1825, he went to Paris, and five years later founded the \"Annales de philosophie chrétienne\" (first number 31 July 1830) which he edited until his death. His main objective was to show the agreement of science and religion, and to point out how the various sciences contributed to the demonstration of Christianity.\n\nIn 1838, he also took up the direction of the \"Université catholique\" founded two years earlier by Gerbet, Salinis, Scorbiac, and Montalembert. Having become the sole owner of this review in 1846, he suspended its publication, in 1855, in order to devote himself exclusively to the \"Annales\". Among the main features of the \"Annales\" was the attempt to show the universality of a primitive revelation which is recognizable even in the myths and fables of all nations.\n\nFélicité de Lamennais' \"Essai sur l'indifférence en matière de religion\" (1817) impressed Bonnetty so much that he devoted his whole life to justifying and developing its tenet that Christianity is the one universal belief whose basic principles were never lacking in any age or civilization.\n\nBonnetty's presiding concern was with the philosophy of history.\n\nBonnetty consistently stressed the necessity of giving an \"honourable place\" to the humane sciences in the curriculum of ecclesiastical studies. For apologetic purposes, he also advised the study of modern anti-Christian or anti-Catholic writers such as Benjamin Constant or Claude-Henri de Rouvroy, comte de Saint-Simon.\n"}
{"id": "20648200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20648200", "title": "Black Power", "text": "Black Power\n\nBlack Power is a political slogan and a name for various associated ideologies aimed at achieving self-determination for people of African descent. It is used primarily, but not exclusively, by African Americans in the United States. The Black Power movement was prominent in the late 1960s and early 1970s, emphasizing racial pride and the creation of black political and cultural institutions to nurture and promote black collective interests and advance black values.\n\n\"Black Power\" expresses a range of political goals, from defense against racial oppression, to the establishment of social institutions and a self-sufficient economy, including black-owned bookstores, cooperatives, farms, and media. However, the movement was criticized for alienating itself from the mainstream civil rights movement, for its apparent support of racial segregation, and for constituting black superiority over other races.\n\nThe earliest known usage of the term \"Black Power\" is found in Richard Wright's 1954 book \"Black Power\". New York politician Adam Clayton Powell Jr. used the term on May 29, 1966 during an address at Howard University: \"To demand these God-given rights is to seek black power.\"\n\nThe first popular use of the term \"Black Power\" as a political and racial slogan was by Stokely Carmichael (later known as Kwame Ture) and Willie Ricks (later known as Mukasa Dada), both organizers and spokespersons for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). On June 16, 1966, in a speech in Greenwood, Mississippi, after the shooting of James Meredith during the March Against Fear, Stokely Carmichael said:\n\nThis is the twenty-seventh time I have been arrested and I ain't going to jail no more! The only way we gonna stop them white men from whuppin' us is to take over. What we gonna start sayin' now is Black Power!\n\nStokely Carmichael saw the concept of \"Black Power\" as a means of solidarity between individuals within the movement. It was a replacement of the \"Freedom Now!\" slogan of Carmichael's contemporary, the non-violent leader Martin Luther King. With his use of the term, Carmichael felt this movement was not just a movement for racial desegregation, but rather a movement to help end how American racism had weakened blacks. He said, Black Power' means black people coming together to form a political force and either electing representatives or forcing their representatives to speak their needs.\"\n\nBlack Power adherents believed in black autonomy, with a variety of tendencies such as black nationalism, black self-determination, and black separatism. Such positions caused friction with leaders of the mainstream Civil Rights Movement, and thus the two movements have sometimes been viewed as inherently antagonistic. Civil Rights leaders often proposed passive, non-violent tactics while the Black Power movement felt that, in the words of Stokely Carmichael and Charles V. Hamilton, \"a 'non-violent' approach to civil rights is an approach black people cannot afford and a luxury white people do not deserve.\" \"However, many groups and individuals—including Rosa Parks, Robert F. Williams, Maya Angelou, Gloria Richardson, and Fay Bellamy Powell—participated in both civil rights and black power activism. A growing number of scholars conceive of the civil rights and black power movements as one interconnected Black Freedom Movement.\n\nNumerous Black Power advocates were in favor of black self determination due to the belief that black people must lead and run their own organizations. Stokely Carmichael is such an advocate and states that, \"only black people can convey the revolutionary idea—and it is a revolutionary idea—that black people are able to do things themselves.\" However, this is not to say that Black Power advocates promoted racial segregation. Stokely Carmichael and Charles V. Hamilton write that \"there is a definite, much-needed role that whites can play.\" They felt that whites could serve the movement by educating other white people.\n\nNot all Black Power advocates were in favor of black separatism. While Stokely Carmichael and SNCC were in favor of separatism for a time in the late 1960s, organizations such as the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense were not. Though the Panthers considered themselves to be at war with the prevailing white supremacist power structure, they were not at war with all whites, but rather with those (mostly white) individuals empowered by the injustices of the structure and responsible for its reproduction.\n\nBobby Seale, Chairman and Co-Founder of the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense, was outspoken about this issue. His stance was that the oppression of black people was more a result of economic exploitation than anything innately racist. In his book \"Seize the Time\", he states that \"In our view it is a class struggle between the massive proletarian working class and the small, minority ruling class. Working-class people of all colors must unite against the exploitative, oppressive ruling class. So let me emphasize again—we believe our fight is a class struggle and not a race struggle.\"\n\nInternationalist offshoots of black power include African Internationalism, pan-Africanism, black nationalism, and black supremacy.\n\nThe term \"Black Power\" was used in a different sense in the 1850s by black leader Frederick Douglass as an alternative name for the \"Slave Power\"—that is the disproportionate political power at the national level held by slave owners in the South. Douglass predicted: \"The days of Black Power are numbered. Its course, indeed is onward. But with the swiftness of an arrow, it rushes to the tomb. While crushing its millions, it is also crushing itself. The sword of Retribution, suspended by a single hair, hangs over it. That sword must fall. Liberty must triumph.\"\n\nIn Apartheid Era South Africa, Nelson Mandela's African National Congress used the call-and-response chant \"Amandla! (Power!)\", \"Ngawethu! (The power is ours!)\" from the late 1950s onward.\n\nThe modern American concept emerged from the Civil Rights Movement in the early 1960s. Beginning in 1959, Robert F. Willams, president of the Monroe, North Carolina chapter of the NAACP, openly questioned the ideology of nonviolence and its domination of the movement's strategy. Williams was supported by prominent leaders such as Ella Baker and James Forman, and opposed by others, such as Roy Wilkins (the national NAACP chairman) and Martin Luther King Jr. In 1961, Maya Angelou, Leroi Jones, and Mae Mallory led a riotous (and widely covered) demonstration at the United Nations in order to protest against the assassination of Patrice Lumumba. Malcolm X, national representative of the Nation of Islam, also launched an extended critique of nonviolence and integrationism at this time. After seeing the increasing militancy of blacks in the wake of the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing, and wearying of Elijah Muhammad's domination of the Nation of Islam, Malcolm left that organization and engaged with the mainstream of the Civil Rights Movement. Malcolm was now open to voluntary racial integration as a long-term goal, but he still supported armed self-defense, self-reliance, and black nationalism; he became a simultaneous spokesman for the militant wing of the Civil Rights Movement and the non-separatist wing of the Black Power movement.\n\nAn early manifestation of Black Power in popular culture was the performances given by Nina Simone at Carnegie Hall in March 1964, and the album \"In Concert\" which resulted from them. Nina Simone mocked liberal nonviolence (\"Go Limp\"), and took a vengeful position toward white racists (\"Mississippi Goddamn\" and her adaptation of \"Pirate Jenny\"). Historian Ruth Feldstein writes that, \"Contrary to the neat historical trajectories which suggest that black power came late in the decade and only after the 'successes' of earlier efforts, Simone's album makes clear that black power perspectives were already taking shape and circulating widely...in the early 1960s.\" \n\nBy 1966, most of SNCC's field staff, among them Stokely Carmichael (later Kwame Ture), were becoming critical of the nonviolent approach to confronting racism and inequality—articulated and promoted by Martin Luther King, Jr., Roy Wilkins, and other moderates—and they rejected desegregation as a primary objective. King was critical of the black power movement, stating in an August 1967 speech to the SCLC: \"Let us be dissatisfied until that day when nobody will shout 'White Power!' — when nobody will shout 'Black Power!' — but everybody will talk about God's power and human power.\" In his 1967 book, \"\", King stated:\n\nSNCC's base of support was generally younger and more working-class than that of the other \"Big Five\" civil rights organizations and became increasingly more militant and outspoken over time. As a result, as the Civil Rights Movement progressed, increasingly radical, more militant voices came to the fore to aggressively challenge white hegemony. Increasing numbers of black youth, particularly, rejected their elders' moderate path of cooperation, racial integration and assimilation. They rejected the notion of appealing to the public's conscience and religious creeds and took the tack articulated by another black activist more than a century before, abolitionist Frederick Douglass, who wrote:\n\nThose who profess to favor freedom, and yet depreciate agitation, are men who want crops without plowing up the ground. They want rain without thunder and lightning. They want the ocean without the awful roar of its many waters. ... Power concedes nothing without demand. It never did and it never will.\n\nMost early 1960s civil rights leaders did not believe in physically violent retaliation. However, much of the African-American rank-and-file, especially those leaders with strong working-class ties, tended to compliment nonviolent action with armed self-defense. For instance, prominent nonviolent activist Fred Shuttlesworth of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (and a leader of the 1963 Birmingham campaign), had worked closely with an armed defense group that was led by Colonel Stone Johnson. As Alabama historian Frye Gaillard writes,\n\nDuring the March Against Fear, there was a division between those aligned with Martin Luther King, Jr. and those aligned with Carmichael, marked by their respective slogans, \"Freedom Now\" and \"Black Power.\"\n\nWhile King never endorsed the slogan, and in fact opposed the Black Power movement, his rhetoric sometimes came close to it. In his 1967 book \"Where Do We Go From Here?\", King wrote that \"power is not the white man's birthright; it will not be legislated for us and delivered in neat government packages.\"\n\nThe \"Crisis and Commitment Statement\" was a full-page ad taken out in the New York Times on October 14, 1966. The ad was written and signed onto by Civil Rights leaders, condemning the \"extreme\" measures used by groups such as the Black Power movement, while reaffirming the basic tenets of the Civil Rights movement. The statement was signed by Dorothy Height, A. Philip Randolph, Bayard Rustin, Roy Wilkins, Whitney Young, and Hobson R. Reynolds.\n\nAlthough the concept remained imprecise and contested and the people who used the slogan ranged from business people who used it to push black capitalism to revolutionaries who sought an end to capitalism, the idea of Black Power exerted a significant influence. It helped organize scores of community self-help groups and institutions that did not depend on Whites, encouraged colleges and universities to start black studies programs, mobilized black voters, and improved racial pride and self-esteem.\n\nOne of the most spectacular and unexpected demonstrations for Black Power occurred at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City. At the conclusion of the 200m race, at the medal ceremony, United States gold medalist Tommie Smith and bronze medalist John Carlos wore Olympic Project for Human Rights badges and showed the raised fist (see 1968 Olympics Black Power salute) as the anthem played. Accompanying them was silver medalist Peter Norman, a white Australian sprinter, who also wore an OPHR badge to show his support for the two African Americans.\n\nThough the Black Power movement did not remedy the political problems faced by African Americans in the 1960s and 1970s, the movement did contribute to the development of black politics both directly and indirectly. As a contemporary of and successor to the Civil Rights Movement, the Black Power movement created, what sociologist Herbert H. Haines refers to as a \"positive radical flank effect\" on political affairs of the 1960s. Though the nature of the relationship between the Civil Rights Movement and the Black Power movement is contested, Haines' study of the relationship between black radicals and the mainstream civil rights movement indicates that Black Power generated a \"crisis in American institutions which made the legislative agenda of 'polite, realistic, and businesslike' mainstream organizations\" more appealing to politicians. In this way, it can be argued that the more strident and oppositional messages of the Black Power movement indirectly enhanced the bargaining position of more moderate activists.\nBlack Power activists approached politics with vitality, variety, wit, and creativity that shaped the way future generations approached dealing with America's societal problems (McCartney 188). These activists capitalized on the nation's recent awareness of the political nature of oppression, a primary focus of the Civil Rights Movement, developing numerous political action caucuses and grass roots community associations to remedy the situation \n\nThe National Black Political Convention, held March 10–12, 1972, was a significant milestone in black politics of the Black Power era. Held in Gary, Indiana, a majorly black city, the convention included a diverse group of black activists, although it completely excluded whites. The convention was criticized for its racial exclusivity by Roy Wilkins of the NAACP, a group that supported . The delegates created a National Black Political Agenda with stated goals including the election of a proportionate number of black representatives to Congress, community control of schools, national health insurance, etc. Though the convention did not result in any direct policy, the convention advanced goals of the Black Power movement and left participants buoyed by a spirit of possibility and themes of unity and self-determination. A concluding note to the convention, addressing its supposed idealism, read: \"At every critical moment of our struggle in America we have had to press relentlessly against the limits of the 'realistic' to create new realities for the life of our people. This is our challenge at Gary and beyond, for a new Black politics demands new vision, new hope and new definitions of the possible. Our time has come. These things are necessary. All things are possible.\" Though such political activism may not have resulted in direct policy, they provided political models for later movements, advanced a pro-black political agenda, and brought sensitive issues to the forefront of American politics. In its confrontational and often oppositional nature, the Black Power movement started a debate within the black community and America as a nation over issues of racial progress, citizenship, and democracy, namely \"the nature of American society and the place of the African American in it.\" The continued intensity of debate over these same social and political issues is a tribute to the impact of the Black Power movement in arousing the political awareness and passions of citizens.\n\nThough the aims of the Black Power movement were racially specific, much of the movement's impact has been its influence on the development and strategies of later political and social movements. By igniting and sustaining debate on the nature of American society, the Black Power movement created what other multiracial and minority groups interpreted to be a viable template for the overall restructuring of society. By opening up discussion on issues of democracy and equality, the Black Power movement paved the way for a diverse plurality of social justice movements, including black feminism, environmental movements, affirmative action, and gay and lesbian rights. Central to these movements were the issues of identity politics and structural inequality, features emerging from the Black Power movement. Because the Black Power movement emphasized and explored a black identity, movement activists were forced to confront issues of gender and class as well. Many activists in the Black Power movement became active in related movements. This is seen in the case of the \"second wave\" of women's rights activism, a movement supported and orchestrated to a certain degree by women working from within the coalition ranks of the Black Power movement. The boundaries between social movements became increasingly unclear at the end of the 1960s and into the 1970s; where the Black Power movement ends and where these other social movements begin is often unclear. \"It is pertinent to note that as the movement expanded the variables of gender, class, and only compounded issues of strategy and methodology in black protest thought.\"\n\nDue to the negative and militant reputation of such auxiliaries as that of the Black Panther Party, many people felt that this movement of \"insurrection\" would soon serve to cause discord and disharmony through the entire U.S. Even Stokely Carmichael stated, \"When you talk of Black Power, you talk of building a movement that will smash everything Western civilization has created.\"\nThough Black Power at the most basic level refers to a political movement, the psychological and cultural messages of the Black Power movement, though less tangible, have had perhaps a longer-lasting impact on American society than concrete political changes. Indeed, \"fixation on the 'political' hinders appreciation of the movement's cultural manifestations and unnecessarily obscures black culture's role in promoting the psychological well being of the Afro-American people,\" states William L. Van Deburg, author of A New Day in Babylon, \"movement leaders never were as successful in winning power for the people as they were in convincing people that they had sufficient power within themselves to escape 'the prison of self-deprecation'\" Primarily, the liberation and empowerment experienced by African Americans occurred in the psychological realm. The movement uplifted the black community as a whole by cultivating feelings of racial solidarity and positive self-identity, often in opposition to the world of white Americans, a world that had physically and psychologically oppressed Blacks for generations. Stokely Carmichael stated that \"the goal of black self-determination and black self-identity—Black Power—is recognition of the virtues in themselves as black people.\" Through the movement, blacks came to understand themselves and their culture by exploring and debating the question, \"who are we?\" in order to establish a unified and viable identity. And \"if black people are to know themselves as a vibrant, valiant people, they must know their roots.\"\n\nThroughout the Civil Rights Movement and black history, there has been tension between those wishing to minimize and maximize racial difference. W.E.B. Du Bois and Martin Luther King Jr. often attempted to deemphasize race in their quest for equality, while those advocating for separatism and colonization emphasized an extreme and irreconcilable difference between races. The Black Power movement largely achieved an equilibrium of \"balanced and humane ethnocentrism.\"\nThe impact of the Black Power movement in generating discussion about ethnic identity and black consciousness supported the appearance and expansion of academic fields of American studies, Black Studies, and African studies, and the founding of several museums devoted to African-American history and culture in this period. In these ways the Black Power movement led to greater respect for and attention accorded to African Americans' history and culture.\n\nBlack Power got a foothold in Britain when Carmichael came to London in July 1967 to attend the Dialectics of Liberation Congress. As well as his address at the Congress, he also made a speech at Speakers' Corner. At that time, there was no Black Power organization in Britain, although there was Michael X's Racial Adjustment Action Society (RAAS).However, this was more influenced by the Malcolm X's visit to Britain in 1964. Michael X also adopted Islam at this stage, whereas Black Power was not organized around any religious institution. \n\nThe \"Black Power Manifesto\" was launched on 10 November 1967, published by the Universal Coloured People's Association. Obi Egbuna, the spokesperson for the group, claimed they had recruited 778 members in London during the previous seven weeks. In 1968 Egbuna published \"Black Power or Death\". He was also active with CLR James, Calvin Hernton and others in the Antiuniversity of London, set up following the Dialectics of Liberation Congress.\n\nBlack people in Britain who identified themselves as the British Black Power Movement (BBMP) formed in the 1960s. They worked with the U.S. Black Panther Party in 1967–68, and 1968–72. The On March 2, 1970, roughly one hundred people protested outside the U.S. embassy in Grosvenor Square, London, in support of the U.S. Black Panther founder Bobby Seale, who was on trial for murder in New Haven, Connecticut. They chanted \"Free Bobby!\" and carried posters proclaiming \"Free, Free bobby Seale\" and \"You can kill a revolutionary but not a revolution.\" London police arrested sixteen of the protestors that day, three women and thirteen men with threatening and assaulting police officers, distributing a flier entitled \"the Definition of Black Power\", intending to incite a breach of the peace, and willful damage to a police raincoat. The raincoat charge was dropped by the judge, but the judge found five of the accused guilty of the remaining charges.\n\nA Black Power movement arose in Jamaica in the late 1960s. Though Jamaica had gained independence from the British Empire in 1962, and Prime Minister Hugh Shearer was black, many cabinet ministers (such as Edward Seaga) and business elites were white. Large segments of the black majority population were unemployed or did not earn a living wage. The Jamaica Labour Party government of Hugh Shearer banned Black Power literature such as \"The Autobiography of Malcolm X\" and the works of Eldridge Cleaver and Stokely Carmichael.\n\nGuyanese academic Walter Rodney was appointed as a lecturer at the University of the West Indies in January 1968, and became one of the main exponents of Black Power in Jamaica. When the Shearer government banned Rodney from re-entering the country, the Rodney Riots broke out. As a result of the Rodney affair, radical groups and publications such as \"Abeng\" began to emerge, and the opposition People's National Party gained support. In the 1972 election, the Jamaica Labour Party was defeated by the People's National Party, and Michael Manley, who had expressed support for Black Power, became Prime Minister.\n\nThe cultivation of pride in the African-American race was often summarized in the phrase \"Black is Beautiful.\" The phrase is rooted in its historical context, yet the relationship to it has changed in contemporary times. \"I don't think it's 'Black is beautiful' anymore. It's 'I am beautiful and I'm black.' It's not the symbolic thing, the afro, power sign… That phase is over and it succeeded. My children feel better about themselves and they know that they're black,\" stated a respondent in Bob Blauner's longitudinal oral history of U.S. race relations in 1986. The outward manifestations of an appreciation and celebration of blackness abound: black dolls, natural hair, black Santas, models and celebrities that were once rare and symbolic have become commonplace.\n\nThe \"Black is beautiful\" cultural movement aimed to dispel the notion that black people's natural features such as skin color, facial features and hair are inherently ugly. John Sweat Rock was the first to coin the phrase \"Black is Beautiful\", in the slavery era. The movement asked that men and women stop straightening their hair and attempting to lighten or bleach their skin. The prevailing idea in American culture was that black features are less attractive or desirable than white features. \n\nThe Black Power movement produced artistic and cultural products that both embodied and generated pride in \"blackness\" and further defined an African-American identity that remains contemporary. Black Power is often seen as a cultural revolution as much as a political revolution, with the goal of celebrating and emphasizing the distinctive group culture of African Americans to an American society that had previously been dominated by white artistic and cultural expressions. Black power utilized all available forms of folk, literary, and dramatic expression based in a common ancestral past to promote a message of self-actualization and cultural self-definition. The emphasis on a distinctive black culture during the Black Power movement publicized and legitimized a culture gap between Blacks and Whites that had previously been ignored and denigrated. More generally, in recognizing the legitimacy of another culture and challenging the idea of white cultural superiority, the Black Power movement paved the way for the celebration of multiculturalism in America today.\n\nThe cultural concept of \"soul\" was fundamental to the image of African-American culture embodied by the Black Power movement. Soul, a type of \"in-group cultural cachet,\" was closely tied to black America's need for individual and group self-identification. A central expression of the \"soulfulness\" of the Black Power generation was a cultivation of aloofness and detachment, the creation of an \"aura or emotional invulnerability,\" a persona that challenged their position of relative powerlessness in greater society. The nonverbal expressions of this attitude, including everything from posture to handshakes, were developed as a counterpoint to the rigid, \"up-tight\" mannerisms of white people. Though the iconic symbol of black power, the arms raised with biceps flexed and clenched fists, is temporally specific, variants of the multitude of handshakes, or \"giving and getting skin,\" in the 1960s and 1970s as a mark of communal solidarity continue to exist as a part of black culture. Clothing style also became an expression of Black Power in the 1960s and 1970s. Though many of the popular trends of the movement remained confined to the decade, the movement redefined standards of beauty that were historically influenced by Whites and instead celebrated a natural \"blackness.\" As Stokely Carmichael said in 1966, \"We have to stop being ashamed of being black. A broad nose, thick lip and nappy hair is us and we are going to call that beautiful whether they like it or not.\" \"Natural\" hair styles, such as the Afro, became a socially acceptable tribute to group unity and a highly visible celebration of black heritage. Though the same social messages may no longer consciously influence individual hair or clothing styles in today's society, the Black Power movement was influential in diversifying standards of beauty and aesthetic choices. The Black Power movement raised the idea of a black aesthetic that revealed the worth and beauty of all black people.\n\nIn developing a powerful identity from the most elemental aspects of African-American folk life, the Black Power movement generated attention to the concept of \"soul food,\" a fresh, authentic, and natural style of cooking that originated in Africa. The flavor and solid nourishment of the food was credited with sustaining African Americans through centuries of oppression in America and became an important aid in nurturing contemporary racial pride. Black Power advocates used the concept of \"soul food\" to further distinguish between white and black culture; though the basic elements of soul food were not specific to African-American food, Blacks believed in the distinctive quality, if not superiority, of foods prepared by Blacks. No longer racially specific, traditional \"soul foods\" such as yams, collard greens, and deep-fried chicken continue to hold a place in contemporary culinary life.\n\nThe Black Arts Movement or BAM, founded in Harlem by writer and activist Amiri Baraka (born Everett LeRoy Jones), can be seen as the artistic branch of the Black Power movement. This movement inspired black people to establish ownership of publishing houses, magazines, journals and art institutions. Other well-known writers who were involved with this movement included Nikki Giovanni; Don L. Lee, later known as Haki Madhubuti; Sonia Sanchez; Maya Angelou; Dudley Randall; Sterling Plumpp; Larry Neal; Ted Joans; Ahmos Zu-Bolton; and Etheridge Knight. Several black-owned publishing houses and publications sprang from the BAM, including Madhubuti's Third World Press, Broadside Press, Zu-Bolton's Energy Black South Press, and the periodicals \"Callaloo\" and \"Yardbird Reader\". Although not strictly involved with the Movement, other notable African-American writers such as novelists Ishmael Reed and Toni Morrison and poet Gwendolyn Brooks can be considered to share some of its artistic and thematic concerns.\n\nBAM sought \"to link, in a highly conscious manner, art and politics in order to assist in the liberation of black people\", and produced an increase in the quantity and visibility of African-American artistic production. Though many elements of the Black Arts movement are separate from the Black Power movement, many goals, themes, and activists overlapped. Literature, drama, and music of Blacks \"served as an oppositional and defensive mechanism through which creative artists could confirm their identity while articulating their own unique impressions of social reality.\" In addition to acting as highly visible and unifying representations of \"blackness,\" the artistic products of the Black Power movement also utilized themes of black empowerment and liberation. For instance, black recording artists not only transmitted messages of racial unity through their music, they also became significant role models for a younger generation of African Americans. Updated protest songs not only bemoaned oppression and societal wrongs, but utilized adversity as a reference point and tool to lead others to activism. Some Black Power era artists conducted brief mini-courses in the techniques of empowerment. In the tradition of cultural nationalists, these artists taught that in order to alter social conditions, Blacks first had to change the way they viewed themselves; they had to break free of white norms and strive to be more natural, a common theme of African-American art and music. Musicians such as the Temptations sang lyrics such as \"I have one single desire, just like you / So move over, son, 'cause I'm comin' through\" in their song \"Message From a Black Man,\" they expressed the revolutionary sentiments of the Black Power movement.\n\nIshmael Reed, who is considered neither a movement apologist nor advocate, said: \"I wasn't invited to participate because I was considered an integrationist\" but he went on to explain the positive aspects of the Black Arts Movement and the Black Power movement:\n\nI think what Black Arts did was inspire a whole lot of Black people to write. Moreover, there would be no multiculturalism movement without Black Arts. Latinos, Asian Americans, and others all say they began writing as a result of the example of the 1960s. Blacks gave the example that you don't have to assimilate. You could do your own thing, get into your own background, your own history, your own tradition and your own culture. I think the challenge is for cultural sovereignty and Black Arts struck a blow for that.\n\nBy breaking into a field typically reserved for white Americans, artists of the Black Power era expanded opportunities for current African Americans. \"Today's writers and performers,\" writes William L. Van Deburg, \"recognize that they owe a great deal to Black Power's explosion of cultural orthodoxy.\"\n\nBayard Rustin, an elder statesman of the Civil Rights Movement, was a harsh critic of Black Power in its earliest days. Writing in 1966, shortly after the March Against Fear, Rustin said that Black Power \"not only lacks any real value for the civil rights movement, but [...] its propagation is positively harmful. It diverts the movement from a meaningful debate over strategy and tactics, it isolates the Negro community, and it encourages the growth of anti-Negro forces.\" He particularly criticized the Congress of Racial Equality (CORE) and SNCC for their turn toward Black Power, arguing that these two organizations once \"awakened the country, but now they emerge isolated and demoralized, shouting a slogan that may afford a momentary satisfaction but that is calculated to destroy them and their movement.\"\n\nThe Black Power slogan was also criticized by Martin Luther King Jr., who stated that the black power movement \"connotates black supremacy and an anti-white feeling that does not or should not prevail.\" The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) also disapproved of Black Power, particularly Roy Wilkins, then the NAACP's executive director, who stated that Black Power was \"a reverse Hitler, a reverse Ku Klux Klan...the father of hate and mother of violence.\" The Black Power slogan was also met with opposition from the leadership of SCLC and the Urban League. \n\nPoliticians in high office also spoke out against Black Power: in 1966, President Lyndon Johnson criticized extremeists on both sides of the racial divide, stating \"we are not interested in Black Power, and we're not interested in white power, but we are interested in American democratic power with a small 'd'\" At a NAACP rally the next day, Vice President Hubert Humphrey argued \"Racism is racism and we must reject calls for racism whether they come from a throat that is white or one that is black.\"\n\nKwame Ture, formerly known as Stokely Carmichael, and Charles V. Hamilton, both activists with the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and authors of the book, \"\" highlight that some observers and critics of the Black Power movement conflated \"Black Power\" with \"Black Supremacy.\" They countered that Black Power advocates were not proposing a mirror-image of white supremacy and domination, instead they were working towards \"an effective share in the total power of society.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47026277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47026277", "title": "Book of the 24 Philosophers", "text": "Book of the 24 Philosophers\n\nThe Book of the 24 Philosophers (in Latin \"Liber XXIV philosophorum\") is a philosophical and theological medieval text of uncertain authorship.\n\nThe book consists of twenty-four “sentences”, “aphorisms” or “definitions” of “God”, attributed to as many philosophers attending a fictional gathering, each an attempt to answer their only remaining question, “what is God?” (\"quid Deus?\"). The first textual witness is from a 12th-century French manuscript currently at Laon. The definitions were often accompanied by a scholastic commentary in either of two redactions, the “shorter” and the “longer” commentary. Both definitions and commentary echo and weave numerous late ancient and medieval views on the First Cause and the nature of divinity.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the \"Liber\" was variously attributed to Hermes Trismegistos, Aristotle or simply quoted anonymously by theologians and philosophers. Contemporary scholarship is still inconclusive about the origin and authorship of the text. French scholar Françoise Hudry has argued for the attribution to Marius Victorinus (fl. 4th century). According to others, the text would belong to a lost work by Aristotle, the \"De philosophia\", known to medieval Europe through the Arab translators of the Toledo School.\n\nThere are notably German, French and Italian studies of the text available, with no English translation yet in print, although online editions exist.\n\nThe influence of this work on medieval scholarship and literature has revealed traces of its ideas among the works of Jean de Meung, Dante, Meister Eckhart, Nicholas of Cusa, Giordano Bruno, Martin LutherRobert Fludd, Pascal, Leibniz.\n\nThe second definition in particular gained wide currency from early on in the High Middle Ages: “God is an infinite sphere whose centre is everywhere and whose circumference is nowhere” (\"Deus est sphaera infinita cuius centrum est ubique, circumferentia nusquam\").\n\n"}
{"id": "29759762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29759762", "title": "Dialectical naturalism", "text": "Dialectical naturalism\n\nDialectical naturalism is a term coined by American philosopher Murray Bookchin to describe the philosophical underpinnings of the political program of social ecology. Dialectical naturalism explores the complex interrelationship between social problems, and the direct consequences they have on the ecological impact of human society. Bookchin offered dialectical naturalism as a contrast to what he saw as the \"empyrean, basically antinaturalistic dialectical idealism\" of Hegel, and \"the wooden, often scientistic dialectical materialism of orthodox Marxists\".\n\nThe roots of dialectical naturalism are found in Hegel's own writings on dialectical methodology, which lent itself to an organic, even ecological interpretation. Bookchin interpreted the dialectical method's strength as its unity of \"developmental causality\" with ontology. \"Dialectic,\" he notes, \"is simultaneously a way of reasoning and an account of the objective world, with a developmental ontology.\"\n\nHowever, in contrast with its forebears in Hegel and Marx, dialectical naturalism \"does not terminate in a Hegelian Absolute at the end of a cosmic development path, but rather advances the vision of an ever increasing wholeness, fullness and richness of differentiation and subjectivity\". Thus, in the dialectical naturalist framework, there is no \"end of history\", only the advancement of a continued march of human social and individual self-understanding.\n\nAs a philosophy, dialectical naturalism stresses the incorporation and advancement of scientific understanding as an integral part of the development of an ecological human understanding. Bookchin rejected \"the revival of 'pre-scientific' archaisms\", and stressed the importance of incorporating a broad scientific understanding from the literature of multiple disciplines. As such, the project of social ecology is a holistic one, dealing with communities and ecosystems in their totalities not just as the sum of their parts, but as the fullness of the interdependence of the many diverse and special parts make, as the saying goes, the whole become more than the sum of its parts. The dialectical unfolding of evolution, both biological and cultural, leads to greater complexity and thus greater subjectivity. Humans, the product of nature made self-aware, cannot be conceived as the pinnacle of a food chain, but only one result of the biological process. A process, which is so fundamentally dependent on diversity among organic lifeforms and biospheres, requiring a \"prudent rescaling of man's hubris\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4982237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4982237", "title": "Dolores LaChapelle", "text": "Dolores LaChapelle\n\nDolores LaChapelle (née Greenwell) (July 4, 1926 – January 21, 2007) was an American mountaineer, skier, T'ai chi teacher, independent scholar, and leader in the Deep ecology movement.\n\nBorn in Denver, Colorado on July 4, 1926, she attended Catholic girls schools and graduated from Denver University in 1947 and then spent three years teaching skiing in Aspen, Colorado.\n\nIn 1950, she made the first ski ascent of Mount Columbia, the second highest peak in the Canadian Rockies, and also of Snow Dome, the hydrographic apex of the continent. After marrying Edward LaChapelle, she spent a year with him in Davos, Switzerland from 1950 to 1951, and then they moved to Alta, Utah. In 1952, their son Randy was born in Denver, Colorado (Randy changed his name to David LaChapelle in his adult years). As a family they would rotate three times a year to their homes and workstations in Alta, Utah, where they spent winters and Randy/David was homeschooled; the Olympic Mountains Blue Glacier Washington, where they spent summers; and Kirkland, Washington. Dolores and Ed moved to Silverton, Colorado in 1973 initially because it was here that Ed carried out avalanche research. Later they would separate though they maintained their friendship and professional literary companionship. Ed set up life in Alaska. Dolores, however, enjoyed the San Juan Mountains in southwestern Colorado, the rest of her life. She operated \"Way of the Mountain center\" from her home publishing, writing, teaching, skiing, sharing ceremony and music.\n\nDolores was first and foremost a philosopher and researcher. The extent of her research spanned a complex set of topics, which she tracked in a vast library of books and articles. She noted and cross-referenced every text in such a tight web of interrelated material that she would eventually include in her collection, over a dozen thick and hand-typed, three-ring binder compendiums linking it all together. This rare body of research includes hundreds of biographical files chronicling a rich lifetime of mountain climbs, as she climbed all 14K (above 14,000 feet) mountains of Colorado Rockies by age 20, letter correspondence with authors and poets such as Gary Snyder and Art Goodtimes and her overlapping years married to pioneering avalanche and snow scientist Ed LaChapelle. This body of wisdom was stored in Silverton awaiting the opportunity for better archiving and accessibility until July 2011 when the collection's steward, Ananda Foley, (equivalent of Dolores' daughter-in-law) arranged a proper home for this unique collection with Aspen Center for Environmental Studies. Ananda has organized the biographical materials and stories of the LaChapelle lives. A posting of this project can be found at the LaChapelle Legacy website. She looks forward to hearing from persons interested in participating in this biographical project (info current as of July 2012).\n\nIn 2004 Dolores LaChapelle received the \"Ski History Maker\" award from the University of Utah as one of the ten women who figured most prominently in the history of skiing. Of all the women in her field to receive this award, she was the \"only back-country skier in the bunch\", according to her close friend Peter.\n\nLaChapelle died on January 21, 2007 after an enjoyable evening of Copper River salmon supper with David Grimes who said they enjoying singing \"Goodnight Irene, Goodnight\" before she turned in for bed. Just before closing her door, she said to him \"what a great song that is, isn't it?\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42663729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42663729", "title": "Early phenomenology", "text": "Early phenomenology\n\nEarly phenomenology refers to the early phase of the phenomenological movement, from the 1890s until the Second World War. The figures associated with the early phenomenology are Edmund Husserl and his followers and students, particularly the members of the Göttingen and Munich Circles, as well as a number of other students of Carl Stumpf and Theodor Lipps, and excludes the later existential phenomenology inspired by Martin Heidegger. Early phenomenology can be divided into two theoretical camps: realist phenomenology, and transcendental or constitutive phenomenology.\n\nAlongside Husserl, the other editors of the \"Jahrbuch für Philosophie und phänomenologische Forschung\", Moritz Geiger, Alexander Pfänder, Adolf Reinach, and Max Scheler, are typically identified as the fathers of early phenomenology.\n\nThe end of the early phenomenology is marked by a series of historical events, including the death of Husserl in 1938, the increased influence of Heidegger, and the outbreak of the Second World War which saw the scattering and death of a number of the early phenomenologists. The end of the early phase of the phenomenological movement led by Husserl is foreshadowed by the differences between Husserl and Heidegger concerning the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" article on 'Phenomenology'.\n\nWhile Husserl's \"Logical Investigations\" are considered the foundational text in phenomenology, it must be noted that it is not the first. Theodor Lipps' student Alexander Pfänder published his \"Phänomenologie des Wollens: eine psychologische analyse\" in 1900, based on his dissertation of 1899, which was a work in phenomenology conceived as descriptive psychology. During the 1890s, Husserl's phenomenology was in its developmental stages. The origins of Husserl's phenomenology can be traced back to his unpublished essay \"Intentional Objects\", which dates as far back as 1894.\n\nShortly before his appointment as professor at the University of Göttingen in 1901, Husserl published the first edition of his \"Logical Investigations\". In Volume I of this work, the \"Prolegomena to Pure Logic\", Husserl presents his now famous polemic against logical psychologism - the attempt to reduce the laws of logic to psychological laws. The term 'phenomenology' only appears once in the first edition of Volume I, in a footnote to section 57. Volume II introduces Husserl's phenomenology, which he characterizes as both a science of essences and as a descriptive psychology that aims to serve as a groundwork for a radical critique of knowledge. In outlining the phenomenological project of the \"Logical Investigations\", Husserl writes:\nIt is also in the opening pages of Volume II where Husserl gives his famous battle-cry, \"back to the things themselves.\"\nThe \"Logical Investigations\" gained widespread attention in Europe, and students began to come to Göttingen specifically to study with Husserl. Of particular importance was the reception of the \"Logical Investigations\" by the Psychological association at the University of Munich. In his book, Husserl had been critical of the psychologist Theodor Lipps. A number of Lipps' students agreed with the criticisms made by Husserl, and were drawn to his phenomenology. Starting with Johannes Daubert, many of Lipps' students left Munich and headed to Göttingen in order to study with Husserl. This event is often referred to as the Munich invasion of Göttingen, and is considered to be the starting point of the phenomenological movement proper. In the summer of 1907, former Munich student Theodor Conrad established a student group in Göttingen to mirror the one he had been a part of in Munich, with the expressed purpose of studying phenomenology. At the time there had been a number of students working with Husserl in Göttingen, known as his \"Urschüler\", and with them Conrad formed the Göttingen Circle. In 1909, Adolf Reinach took up a position as Privatdozent in Göttingen, followed shortly thereafter by Max Scheler in 1910, who had lost his teaching position in Munich. Around this same time, Alexandre Koyre, Jean Hering, Edith Stein, and Roman Ingarden joined the young group of phenomenologists.\n\nWhile phenomenology as it was presented in the \"Logical Investigations\" was flourishing in both Göttingen and Munich, Husserl was moving toward a conception of phenomenology as a form of transcendental idealism. In 1905, Husserl traveled to Seefeld for his summer vacation, and was visited by Pfänder and Daubert. In the manuscripts from this time, we find the emergence of the phenomenological reduction and Husserl's first moves toward transcendental idealism. Shortly after the vacation, Daubert penned a manuscript divided into two parts: one on transcendental philosophy, and the other on phenomenology. Upon his return to Göttingen, Husserl began a serious re-reading of Kant, and in 1907, made his new conception of phenomenology public in a series of five lectures titled, \"The Idea of Phenomenology\". The turn away from the descriptive psychology and realist phenomenology outlined in the \"Logical Investigations\" was completed with the publication of \"Ideas Pertaining to a Pure Phenomenology and to a Phenomenological Philosophy\" in the inaugural edition the \"Jahrbuch\".\n\nMany of Husserl's students, particularly those that he shared with Reinach, resisted the turn to idealism. The phenomenologists who had remained with Lipps in Munich championed realist phenomenology in opposition to Husserl.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38466074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38466074", "title": "Ethnic penalty", "text": "Ethnic penalty\n\nEthnic penalty in sociology is defined as the economic and non-economic disadvantages that ethnic minorities experience in the labour market compared to other ethnic groups. As an area of study among behavioral economists, psychologists, and sociologists, it ranges beyond discrimination to take non-cognitive factors into consideration for explaining unwarranted differences between individuals of similar abilities but differing ethnicities.\n\nThe concept of the ethnic penalty was first discussed by Oxford sociologist Anthony Heath and refined with greater specificity by another Oxford sociologist, Reza Hasmath and, recently, by another sociologist, Elyakim Kislev. Heath originally looked at the ethnic penalty by making comparisons between two groups in Britain, whites and blacks, noting that unemployment of black African men was twice as high as unemployment of white men. Using 2001 UK census data, Johnston et al. suggests that all ethno-religious groups in the UK experienced ethnic penalties in the labour market, with the exception of White British ethno-religious groups. Carmichael and Woods additionally show that \"the penalties paid vary considerably between the minority groups\" studied, in the case of black, Indian, Pakistani, and Bangladeshi workers in the United Kingdom. Simpson, Purdam, Tajar, et al. also found that this differs between UK-born members of an ethnic minority and those of the same ethnicity born abroad – UK-born males are more likely to be unemployed than males from overseas, while UK-born women \"tend to do better in the labour market than their overseas-born counterparts\". Beyond this, Simpson et al. confirmed that this disadvantage is not tied to \"concentration of ethnic minorities in deprived areas\"; those of an \"ethnic minority were still twice as likely to be unemployed than their White counterparts... even in areas that are predominantly White\". Furthermore, ethnic minorities experience economic disadvantages even in some areas where their level of educational attainments outperform or are on par with that of the majority population, as is the case in Beijing. Here, the education levels of ethnic minorities largely match those of the Han population, yet Hans dominate the demographics of high-wage, high-education and skills-intensive employment sectors. Recent research into the process of minority job acquisition and retention in China finds that \"minorities perceive they are at a disadvantage in the job search process,\" even if Han-minority wage differentials show little evidence of disadvantages for ethnic minorities. Recent research has explored the possibility of a \"double penalty\" which considers the interaction effects of ethnicity and gender.\n\nReza Hasmath concludes that exclusionary discrimination is not the only potential explanation for ethnic penalties. Conditions such an individual's social network, a firm's working culture, and a community's social trust should be strongly factored. Silberman and Fournier, in their investigation of ethnic penalty in France, also highlight that an employer may not necessarily wish themselves to discriminate, but that they may be pressured by \"a given company’s employees or a customer wishing to have nothing to do with an individual with this or that characteristic\".\n\nElyakim Kislev's work divides the ethnic penalty into four components: individual characteristics, country characteristics, the social environment in host country, and the policy environment in host country. Kislev shows that the main reasons for immigrants’ disadvantage in terms of labor force participation and household income are both origin and host country characteristics, while the effects of ethnic origins, social exclusion, and policies are weaker. However, ethnic origins and social exclusion actually play a central role in determining unemployment of immigrants.\n"}
{"id": "55209556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55209556", "title": "Fatima Babiker Mahmoud", "text": "Fatima Babiker Mahmoud\n\nFatima Babiker Mahmoud () is a Sudanese-born socialist feminist.\n\nShe graduated from the University of Khartoum and earned her doctorate at the University of Hull. Her doctoral thesis was the basis of her most-frequently cited work, \"The Sudanese Bourgeoisie:Vanguard of Development?\" in which she traced the historical development of the modern Sudanese bourgeoisie and concluded that it had no progressive role to play in the development of Sudan.\n\nThe Pan-African Women's Liberation Organisation (PAWLO) was established at the time of the 7th Pan-African Conference in Kampala, Uganda in April 1994, and Dr Mahmoud became its founding President. Addressing the first meeting of PAWLO, she said: \n\n\"African women share a common history, a common conceptual framework in understanding our reality in order to change it, and common enemies and friends within and outside Africa. We have similar challenges to face and a better future to look forward to. There is now a serious need for a new Pan African Women's organisation, embracing African women on the continent and in the diaspora, to address these commonalities.\"\n\nDr. Mahmoud has previously served as a member of the Editorial Advisory Board for the \"Journal of Gender Studies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7499898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7499898", "title": "Foundation for Biomedical Research", "text": "Foundation for Biomedical Research\n\nThe Foundation for Biomedical Research (FBR) is an American non profit organization, 501(c)(3), located in Washington, DC. Established in 1981, the organization is dedicated to informing the news media, teachers, and other groups about the need for lab animals in medical and scientific research. The organization, together with its partner, the National Association for Biomedical Research (NABR), argues that promoting animal research leads to improved health for both humans and animals.\n\nIts founding president is Frankie Trull.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the total number of animals used in that country in 2005 was almost 1.2 million, excluding rats and mice. Some animal rights supporters believe that alternatives exist for animal models in research; however the vast majority of scientists believe there are no adequate alternatives which truly replace the roles which research animals play. In fact, recent research shows that 98% of the current drug pipeline relies on either dogs or non-human primates.\n\nAccording to the Foundation for Biomedical Research, animal research has been responsible for every medical breakthrough over the past century, although this position has been disputed by some animal rights activists and organizations. It cites animal research as leading to advances in antibiotics, blood transfusions, dialysis, organ transplantation, vaccinations, chemotherapy, bypass surgery, joint replacement, and methods for prevention, treatment, cure and control of disease, pain and suffering.\n\nNonhuman primates have been at the forefront of animal research controversy over the last several years even though they represent less than one percent of all animals models used. In August 2016, to counter criticism from animal rights' groups, a white paper coauthored by nine of the most premier scientific groups and titled \"The Critical Role of Nonhuman Primates in Medical Research\" was released. Because of their incredible similarity to humans, primates such as rhesus macaques and chimpanzees, up until the National Institutes of Health ended public funding for chimpanzee research, have greatly contributed to many areas of medicine. Some specific advances, according to the white paper, are: the development of the MMR vaccine, the treatment of leprosy, HIV medication, a vaccine for hepatitis B, and improvements in cancer treatment. One of the most recent advancements has been the development of a highly effective vaccine against the Zika virus, which should soon be protecting both the people and primates that are most at risk of infection.\n\nDogs have been used in research for decades and have been invaluable for treating many human and canine illnesses. Dogs contract many of the diseases humans do, from heart disease to cancer and they are also exposed to the same environment as humans. Canine research has led to many significant breakthroughs such as hip replacements, development of cancer treatments, and research in stem cells, diabetes, and Alzheimer's disease. Treatments for heartworms, parasites, and vaccinations against parvovirus, rabies, and canine distemper have also come from canine models.\n\nCats, like dogs, have also proven to be extremely helpful for developing treatments for both human and feline diseases. Cats have been a mainstay in research studies of neurological, cardiovascular, and respiratory diseases and the immune system. In particular, they have been valuable models for understanding the function of the neuron, the chemical transmission of nerve impulses, and the functional organization of the brain. Neuroscientists studying cats have provided a map of the circuitry of the vertebral cortex revealing the major pathways that send signals from the eye to the brain. Cats have also been invaluable for the treatment of leukemia and both feline and human breast cancer. Feline leukemia used to be one of the most common killers of cats and about 85% died within three years of their diagnosis. However, with their help, scientists have developed a vaccine for feline leukemia and now more beloved pets get to spend more time with their families.\n\nIn the U.S., the numbers of rats and mice used in animal research is estimated at 20 million a year, or 95% of the total number of lab animals. Other rodents commonly used are guinea pigs, hamsters, and gerbils. Mice are the most commonly used vertebrate species because of their size, low cost, ease of handling, and fast reproduction rate. Mice also have genomes that are very similar to the human genome. This similarity allows researchers to recreate human diseases, such as breast cancer, in mice in order to understand how genes affect the development of disease. The Foundation advocates the highest quality of animal care and treatment, stating that the use of animals in research is a privilege, and that animals deserve our respect and the best possible care.\n\nThe Foundation for Biomedical Research conducts educational programs for the news media, teachers, students and parents, pet owners and other groups.\n\nFBR publishes a subscriber-based daily news service called Total E-clips featuring biomedical research news, medical breakthroughs, political and legislative and activism news.\n\nSince 1981, the FBR has monitored and analyzed the activities of animal rights organizations relating to researchers and institutions.\n\n"}
{"id": "23590376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23590376", "title": "Franciszek Krupiński", "text": "Franciszek Krupiński\n\nFranciszek Salezy Krupiński (January 22, 1836, Łukowie near Siedlce–August 16, 1898, Warsaw) was a Polish philosopher.\n\nKrupiński was an early representative of Polish Positivism. He preached \"organic work\" and (though himself a Catholic priest) fought against Catholic and Romantic philosophy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "311796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311796", "title": "Freedom From Religion Foundation", "text": "Freedom From Religion Foundation\n\nThe Freedom From Religion Foundation (FFRF) is an American non-profit organization based in Madison, Wisconsin, with members from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. The largest national organization advocating for non-theists, FFRF promotes the separation of church and state and educates the public on matters relating to atheism, agnosticism, and nontheism. The FFRF publishes a newspaper, \"Freethought Today\" 10 times a year. Since 2006, as the Freethought Radio Network, FFRF has produced the \"Freethought Radio\" show.\n\nThe FFRF was co-founded by Anne Nicol Gaylor and her daughter, Annie Laurie Gaylor, in 1976 and was incorporated nationally on April 15, 1978. The organization is supported by over 23,500 members and operates from an 1855-era building in Madison, Wisconsin, that once served as a church rectory. According to the 2011 IRS tax Form-990, FFRF spent just over $200,000 on legal fees and services and just under $1 million on education, outreach, publishing, broadcasting, and events. The allotment for legal fees is primarily used in cases supporting the separation of church and state that involve governmental entities. FFRF also has a paid staff of twenty two, including five full-time staff attorneys and two legal fellows.\n\nAnnie Laurie Gaylor, co-president of the FFRF, is the author of \"Women Without Superstition: No Gods - No Masters\" and the nonfiction book on clergy pedophilia scandals \"Betrayal of Trust: Clergy Abuse of Children\" (out of print) and editor of the anthology \"Woe to the Women\". She edited the FFRF newspaper \"Freethought Today\" until July 2008. Her husband, Dan Barker, author of \"Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist\", \"Godless: How an Evangelical Preacher Became One of America's Leading Atheists\", \"The Good Atheist: Living a Purpose-Filled Life Without God\", \"Life Driven Purpose\", \"God: The Most Unpleasant Character in all Fiction\" and \"Just Pretend: A Freethought Book for Children\", is a musician and songwriter, a former Pentecostal Christian minister, and co-president of FFRF.\n\nIn March 2011, FFRF, along with the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science, began The Clergy Project, a confidential on-line community that supports clergy as they leave their faith. In 2012, it gave its first Freedom From Religion Foundation and Clergy Project \"Hardship Grant\" to Jerry DeWitt, a former pastor who left the ministry to join the atheist movement.\n\nIn June 2013 FFRF announced that, along with the Secular Student Alliance, it would work on educating students on their religious rights and would assist with rectifying violations and what they have termed \"religious infringement into public education\".\n\nIn 2015, FFRF announced Nonbelief Relief, a new charitable arm. Nonbelief Relief is a humanitarian agency for atheists, agnostics, freethinkers and their supporters \"to improve this world, our only world\". Nonbelief Relief seeks to remediate conditions of human suffering and injustice on a global scale, whether the result of natural disasters, human actions or adherence to religious dogma.\n\nIn June 2004, the FFRF challenged the constitutionality of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. The Foundation's complaint alleged that \"the use of money appropriated by Congress under Article I, section 8, to fund conferences that various executive branch agencies hold to promote President Bush's 'Faith-Based and Community Initiatives'\" conflicted with the First Amendment. The suit held that \"the defendant officials violated the Establishment Clause by organizing national and regional conferences at which faith-based organizations allegedly \"are singled out as being particularly worthy of federal funding because of their religious orientation, and the belief in God is extolled as distinguishing the claimed effectiveness of faith-based social services\". The FFRF also alleged that \"the defendant officials 'engage in myriad activities, such as making public appearances and giving speeches, throughout the United States, intended to promote and advocate for funding for faith-based organizations.\" The FFRF further asserted, \"Congressional appropriations [are] used to support the activities of the defendants.\"\nIn 2007 the Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that taxpayers do not have the right to challenge the constitutionality of expenditures made by the executive branch.\n\nIn May 2007, the FFRF, on behalf of Indiana taxpayers, challenged the creation of a chaplaincy pilot program for the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration (FSSA). The FSSA hired Pastor Michael L. Latham, a Baptist minister, in 2006, at a salary of $60,000 a year. In September 2007, in response to the FFRF's suit, Indiana ended the program.\n\nIn April 2003, the FFRF, on behalf of Montana residents, sued the Montana Office of Rural Health and its executive director David M. Young along with the Montana State University-Bozeman and the Montana Faith-Health Cooperative. It was alleged that Young favored faith-based nursing parish programs for state funding. In October 2004, the Federal District Court for the District of Montana held that the state's \"direct and preferential funding of inherently and pervasively religious parish nursing programs was undertaken for the impermissible purpose, and has the impermissible effect, of favoring and advancing the integration of religion into the provision of secular health care services.\" According to the court, the state funding of faith-based healthcare violated the First Amendment.\n\nIn April 2006, the FFRF sued to challenge the pervasive integration of \"spirituality\" into health care by the Department of Veteran Affairs. Specifically stating that the practice of asking patients about their religion in spiritual assessments, the use of chaplains to treat patients, and drug and alcohol treatment programs that incorporate religion violated the separation of state and church. The case was later dismissed after the Hein decision because of lack of standing.\n\nIn 2001, the FFRF, on behalf of anonymous plaintiffs, sued the Rhea County School District. The plaintiffs alleged that weekly bible classes were being held for all students in the elementary schools. In June 2004, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed a district judgment holding that it was unconstitutional for the school district to \"teach the Bible as literal truth\" to students, including first graders.\n\nIn March 2005, the FFRF filed suit against the University of Minnesota because of its involvement with the Minnesota Faith Health Consortium, a partnership with Luther Seminary, which is affiliated with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America, and Fairview Health Services, stating that state taxpayer funds are helping to fund a faith-based organization. In September 2005 the University agreed to end the partnership and to cease teaching \"courses on the intersection of faith and health\", with the FFRF agreeing to drop its lawsuit.\n\nIn April 2005, the FFRF filed a lawsuit against the U.S. Department of Education because of its distribution of funds to the Alaska Christian College, a Bible college run by the Evangelical Covenant Church of Alaska. The foundation stated that in the students' first year at the college, they take only religious-based courses, and finish that year with a Certificate of Biblical Studies. The college, the foundation says, \"does not offer traditional college courses, such as math or English\". In October 2005 the FFRF and the U.S. Department of Education settled the lawsuit, with the Department of Education agreeing not to distribute $435,000 of federal funds to the College.\n\nIn October 2000, the FFRF brought suit, as taxpayers in the state of Wisconsin, against Faith Works located in Milwaukee. Their case stated that a faith-based addiction-treatment program should not be used as a court ordered treatment program using taxpayer funds. In January 2002 the ruling was decided in the FFRF's favor; that receiving hundreds of thousands of dollars in public money is in violation of the Establishment Clause. The judge wrote \"Because I find that the Department of Workforce Development's grant to Faith Works constitutes unrestricted, direct funding of an organization that engages in religious indoctrination, I conclude that this funding stream violates the establishment clause.\" On Appeal, in April 2003, The Seventh Circuit later ruled against the FFRF on the narrower issue of whether prisoners joining specific faith-based programs on their own free will are coerced by government endorsement of religion.\n\nThe FFRF brought a suit against the awarding of a federal grant to MentorKids USA, a group providing mentors to children of prisoners, alleging that only Christian mentors were hired and that they were to give monthly reports on the children's religious activities. In January 2005, the court vacated HHS's funding of this group citing \"federal funds have been used by the MentorKids program to advance religion in violation of the Establishment Clause\".\n\nIn May 2006 the FFRF filed suit against the Federal Bureau of Prisons alleging that its decision to fund not only multi-faith-based but also single-faith-based programs violated constitutional standards for separation of state and church. The parties later agreed to a dismissal of that claim, but additional counts within the lawsuit, alleging separate violations, continued.\n\nIn 1995 the FFRF sued the state of Wisconsin for designating Good Friday as a state legal holiday. In 1996 the federal district court ruled that Wisconsin's Good Friday holiday was indeed a First Amendment violation because the \"promotion of Christianity is the primary purpose of the law.\"\n\nIn December 2007 the FFRF, on behalf of a group of concerned Green Bay residents and invoking the First Amendment rights of all of the city's residents, sued the city because of the placement of a nativity scene at Green Bay's city hall. Before the case was heard, the city removed the nativity scene. The judge then dismissed the suit, citing lack of jurisdiction. Since the nativity scene already was removed and a moratorium imposed on future such displays, there remained no basis for continued dispute. He went on to say, \"\"the plaintiffs have already won\". ...the Plaintiffs have won a concrete victory that changes the circumstances on the ground.\"\n\nIn 2011 in response to the city of Warren, Michigan's refusal to remove a nativity display in the civic center, the FFRF sought to place a winter solstice display. The mayor refused the request and the FFRF brought suit. The suit was dismissed by Judge Zatkoff of the U.S. District Court; the dismissal was upheld by the U.S. 6th Circuit Court in 2013.\n\nIn September 2011, the FFRF, along with the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), sued the Giles County, Virginia school district on behalf of anonymous plaintiffs. A display of the Ten Commandments had been placed beside a copy of the U.S. Constitution at Giles County public schools. Prior to the suit, in January and June 2011, the FFRF and the ACLU had sent letters to the school board requesting removal of the display. The school superintendent ordered that the displays of the Ten Commandments be removed. The Giles County school board met in June 2011 and voted to overturn the superintendent's decision to remove the display. After the suit was filed, the school board in 2012 agreed to remove the display and to pay attorneys' fees.\n\nIn May 2012, the FFRF, acting on a complaint from a resident, asked the city of Woonsocket, Rhode Island, to remove a Latin cross from a World War I and II memorial on public land. The city refused to do so. The FFRF states that it is currently looking for a plaintiff in the area to represent for a suit, which the FFRF have yet to do, citing the difficulty with another case that occurred with another plaintiff in the state, Jessica Ahlquist, in the case Ahlquist v. Cranston.\n\nOn July 24, 2012, after receiving a letter from the FFRF, the Steubenville, Ohio, city council decided to remove the image of the Christ the King Chapel at the Franciscan University of Steubenville from its town logo.\n\nIn August 2012 the FFRF, on behalf of a resident, threatened a lawsuit challenging a Latin cross that had been displayed on top of the water tower of Whiteville, Tennessee. After the FFRF wrote three initial letters, but before the lawsuit was filed, the town removed one arm of the cross. The removal cost the town $4,000, and as part of the settlement the town paid $20,000 in the FFRF's attorneys fees. The town also agreed never to replace the missing arm and not to place other crosses on public property.\n\nIn August 2012 the FFRF, on behalf of a Montana resident, sued the United States Forest Service. A special use permit for the placement of a statue of Jesus on federal land was granted in 1954 at the request of the Knights of Columbus. The Forest Service continued to grant renewals of the permit until 2010. When the Service declined to renew, the Knights declined to remove the statue citing \"tradition\" and the \"historical\" value of the statue. After on-line protests the statue was allowed to stay and the permit granted. The FFRF filed suit in February 2012. In June 2013, a federal judge found in favor of the defendants, allowing the statue to remain. In August 2013, the FFRF filed an appeal of the decision.\n\nIn 2012 the FFRF wrote several letters to Prudhommes Restaurant, in Columbia, Pennsylvania, explaining that offering a 10% discount to Sunday patrons who present a church bulletin is a violation of state and federal law, specifically the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The individual who brought the matter to the FFRF's attention has filed a discrimination complaint with the Pennsylvania Human Relations. The FFRF is only involved in an advisory capacity.\n\nIn October 2008, the FFRF filed suit against the U.S. government over the statute establishing the National Day of Prayer (NDoP). In 2010, Federal judge Barbara Brandriff Crabb ruled it unconstitutional as it is \"an inherently religious exercise that serves no secular function\". This ruling was appealed by the U.S. government. In April 2011, the U.S. Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals dismissed the FFRF's challenge to the NDoP, holding that the FFRF did not have standing to challenge the NDoP statute or proclamations and that only the President was injured enough to challenge the NDoP statute.\n\nThe FFRF, in January 2013, after receiving a complaint from a resident, asked the city council of Rapid City, South Dakota, to eliminate its practice of beginning each city council meeting with a Christian prayer. After the FFRF sent a second letter in February 2013, the mayor stated at that time that prayers would continue.\n\nThe FFRF filed suit against the IRS over the parish exemption that allows \"ministers of the gospel\" to claim part of their salary as an income-tax-free housing allowance. This was originally filed in 2009, in California, then subsequently dropped and re-filed in 2011, in Wisconsin, because of standing. In August 2012, a federal judge stated that the suit could go forward. In August 2013, the Justice Department argued that leaders of an atheist group may qualify for the parish exemption. Gaylor states \"this is not what we are after,\" going on to say that the government should not give religious groups any special treatment.\n\nOn November 21, 2013, a federal judge ruled in the FFRF's favor. In January 2014, the Department of Justice filed an appeal in federal court. In November 2014, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit issued its decision, concluding that the federal tax code provision that treats church-provided housing allowances to ministers as income tax-free must stand.\n\nIn November 2012, The FFRF filed a lawsuit against the IRS for not enforcing its own electioneering laws. The FFRF cited in its suit the placement of full page ads by the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association; the diocese requiring priests to read a statement urging Catholics to vote; and the institution of \"Pulpit Freedom Sunday\". The group claimed that not enforcing the federal tax codes that prohibit tax-exempt religious organizations from electioneering is a violation of the First Amendment of the Constitution. The group stated that the increasing involvement of religious institutions in politics was \"blatantly and deliberately flaunting the electioneering restrictions\".\nThe IRS had filed a motion to dismiss in federal court, but in August 2013 it was decided that the lawsuit could proceed stating that the FFRF \"has standing to seek an order requiring the IRS to treat religious organizations no more favorably than it treats the Foundation\".\n\nIn December 2012 the FFRF filed suit against the IRS for not requiring the yearly filing of a 990 Form for religious institutions, which is required for all other non-profit organizations. This action is pending.\n\nIn December 2013, the FFRF was permitted to hang a banner at the capital after a nativity scene was placed by a private group.\n\nOn December 23, 2009, William J. Kelly, conservative activist and candidate for Illinois Comptroller, attempted to remove a FFRF sign at a holiday display. The case was dismissed on several grounds, including that the lawsuit ran afoul of the First Amendment prohibition against content-based discrimination and that the plaintiff's rights had not been violated.\n\nA plaque with the same text as the Wisconsin State Capitol sign was displayed for the 2008 Christmas season at the state capitol in Olympia, Washington, next to a nativity scene. The sign was stolen and then later found and returned to the state capitol. The addition of the sign incited a large number of individuals and groups to request other additions, such as a Festivus pole, a request by the Westboro Baptist Church for a sign stating \"Santa Claus will take you to hell\" (among other things), a sign paying homage to the Flying Spaghetti Monster, and many others.\n\nThe FFRF maintains a sign in the Wisconsin State Capitol during the Christmas season, which reads:\nIn 2013, a natural nativity featuring Charles Darwin, Albert Einstein and Mark Twain as the three wise men, the Statue of Liberty and an astronaut as angels and an African American girl baby doll to represent that \"humankind was birthed in Africa\" was added.\n\nIn 2013, the FFRF was allowed to place a sign in the rotunda, after complaints from its members, as a response to the crèches and other religious symbols that are already in place at the statehouse.\n\nOn July 14, 2017, a statue of Clarence Darrow was unveiled in Dayton, Tennessee on the Rhea County Courthouse lawn, funded by a $150,000 donation from the FFRF. The courthouse was the site of the historic 1925 Scopes Monkey Trial wherein Darrow unsuccessfully defended a teacher, John T. Scopes, who was found guilty of teaching evolution in a public school in violation of what was then a Tennessee state law. The statue was placed just a few feet away from a statue of William Jennings Bryan, Darrow's creationist opponent in the trial, which had been erected in 2005 by nearby Bryan College.\n\nIn 2011 the FFRF was contacted by a local Austin citizen regarding the placement of a nativity scene on Henderson County courthouse property. A letter of complaint was sent. After it was decided that the nativity scene would remain, the FFRF petitioned to have its own banner placed on the site, but county officials declined to discuss its placement. The FFRF banner was placed without permission on the courthouse property, but was soon removed. In April 2012 the request to place the banner was denied.\nFreethought Radio, called the \"only weekly Freethought radio broadcast anywhere\", is an hour-long show broadcast live on WXXM-FM Saturdays at 11 a.m. CDT. It had also been broadcast on Air America before that service ceased operation in March, 2010. The show is hosted by the co-presidents of FFRF, Dan Barker and Annie Laurie Gaylor. Regular features include \"Theocracy Alert\" and \"Freethinkers Almanac\". The latter highlights historic freethinkers, many of whom are also songwriters. The show's intro and outro make use of John Lennon's \"Imagine\", which has an antireligious theme. A podcast archive is available at the FFRF website.\n\nFFRF has held conventions since 1977, one year after the group formed and one year prior to its official incorporation. The 2016 convention was the 39th annual convention. Previous conventions included speakers such as Christopher Hitchens, awards are presented to recognize contributions to the advancement of the freethought community, \"NonPrayer Breakfasts\" with \"moments of bedlam,\" and piano music by FFRF Co-President Dan Barker.\n\nCharity Navigator gives FFRF a four star rating and reports in 2013 FFRF had revenues of $3,878,938 USD, with a net surplus (after expenses) of $1,715,563 and net assets of $11,519,770. Officer compensation for the \"co-presidents\" husband and wife Dan Barker and Annie Laurie Gaylor was $88,700 and $86,500 ($175,200 combined) or approximately 10% of the net surplus.\n\nThe \"Emperor Has No Clothes Award\" has been awarded by the Foundation since 1999 in recognition of \"plain speaking\" on the shortcomings of religion by public figures.\n\n"}
{"id": "881176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=881176", "title": "Fruit of the poisonous tree", "text": "Fruit of the poisonous tree\n\nFruit of the poisonous tree is a legal metaphor in the United States used to describe evidence that is obtained illegally. The logic of the terminology is that if the source (the \"tree\") of the evidence or evidence itself is tainted, then anything gained (the \"fruit\") from it is tainted as well.\n\nThe doctrine underlying the name was first described in \"Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States\", 251 U.S. 385 (1920). The term's first use was by Justice Felix Frankfurter in \"Nardone v. United States\" (1939).\n\nSuch evidence is not generally admissible in court. For example, if a police officer conducted an unconstitutional (Fourth Amendment) search of a home and obtained a key to a train station locker, and evidence of a crime came from the locker, that evidence would most likely be excluded under the fruit of the poisonous tree legal doctrine. The testimony of a witness who is discovered through illegal means would not necessarily be excluded, however, , which allows certain evidence or testimony to be admitted in court if the link between the illegal police conduct and the resulting evidence or testimony is sufficiently attenuated. It is believed that a witness who freely and voluntarily testifies is enough of an independent intervening factor to sufficiently \"attenuate\" the connection between the government's illegal discovery of the witness and the witness's voluntary testimony itself. (\"United States v. Ceccolini\", 435 U.S. 268 (1978))\n\nThe \"fruit of the poisonous tree\" doctrine is an extension of the exclusionary rule, which, subject to some exceptions, prevents evidence obtained in violation of the Fourth Amendment from being admitted in a criminal trial. Like the exclusionary rule, the fruit of the poisonous tree doctrine is intended to deter police from using illegal means to obtain evidence.\n\nThe doctrine is subject to four main exceptions. The tainted evidence is admissible if:\n\nThis doctrine was also used by the European Court of Human Rights in \"Gäfgen v. Germany\". In certain cases continental European countries have similar laws (e.g. in cases of torture), while the doctrine itself is generally not known. Illegally obtained evidence is used by the courts to ensure that the judgment is factually correct, however the person obtaining the illegal evidence typically faces independent consequences.\n\n"}
{"id": "51304586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51304586", "title": "Félicien Challaye", "text": "Félicien Challaye\n\nFélicien Challaye (1875-1967) was a French philosopher and human rights activist.\n\nFélicien Challaye was born on November 1, 1875 in Lyon, France. He earned the agrégation in Philosophy in 1897.\n\nChallaye was a high school teacher of philosophy in Paris from 1903 to 1937. He served as Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza's secretary on his 1905 trip to the Congo. Three years later, in 1908, he founded a human rights organization for the indigenous people of the Congo. He subsequently served as the vice president of the Human Rights League.\n\nChallaye served in World War I, and he was wounded in combat in 1915. After the war, he became a staunch pacifist. By 1931, he suggested he preferred peace to war, even if France had to be invaded by Germany.\n\nChallaye was the author of many books on philosophy. He also published children's books under the pseudonym of Robert Fougère.\n\nChallaye died on April 26, 1967 in Paris, France. The \"rue Félicien Challaye\" in Tunis, Tunisia was named in his honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "566052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=566052", "title": "Gotthard Günther", "text": "Gotthard Günther\n\nGotthard Günther (15 June 1900 – 29 November 1984), was a German (Prussian) philosopher.\n\nGünther was born in Arnsdorf, Hirschberg im Riesengebirge, Prussian Silesia (modern day Jelenia Góra, Poland). From 1921 to 1933, Günther studied sinology and philosophy at the universities of Heidelberg and Berlin, and wrote his doctor's thesis on Hegel in 1933 under the guidance of Eduard Spranger. From 1935 to 1937, he worked at the institute of Arnold Gehlen at the University of Leipzig, publishing “\"Christliche Metaphysik und das Schicksal des modernen Bewusstseins\"” (“Christian metaphysics and the fate of modern consciousness”, together with Helmut Schelsky in 1937). He was a member of the Leipzig School.\n\nIn the same year, following his wife, the Jewish psychologist Dr. Marie Günther-Hendel, he emigrated from Germany first to Italy, afterwards to Stellenbosch University in South Africa and, in 1940, to the United States. There he completed his system of place-valued logics and morphogrammatics. His great study “\"Die philosophische Idee einer nicht-Aristotelischen Logik\"” (“The philosophical concept of a non-Aristotelian logic”) went to print in 1957 (Hamburg, Meiner). As a research professor, he joined the department of electrical engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1960, working together with Warren Sturgis McCulloch, Heinz von Foerster, Humberto Maturana and others. In 1962, he published \"Cybernetic ontology and transjunctional operations\". Later he lectured at the University of Hamburg until he died in that city, in 1984.\n\nAccording to Isaac Asimov, who considered Gunther \"a good friend,\" Gunther \"felt that civilization was a product of the Old World and could not flourish indigenously in the New.\" Asimov noted that Gunther thus \"maintained [that] when Old World civilization was transplanted to the New World, a distortion was introduced and one of the ways in which this distortion was evidenced was by the peculiar American invention of science fiction, which was not to be confused with earlier European ventures in the field (i.e., Jules Vernes).\"\n\nGünther's work was based upon Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Martin Heidegger and Oswald Spengler. He developed a trans-Aristotelian logical approach (omitting the \"tertium non datur\"). Günther's transclassical logic was the attempt to combine improved results of modern dialectic with formal logic. His focus on the philosophical problem of the \"Du\" (\"You\"/\"Thou\") was trailblazing. He also contributed to the fields of cybernetics and to both natural and social sciences, especially to sociology.\n\nHis œuvre (body of work), in German and English, is quite substantial. An overview can be gathered from his three volumes, helping make dialectics operationable (see below). He was of influence in the areas of philosophy, cybernetics, mathematics, and sociology. As of 2004, the Gotthard Günther Research Center (“Gotthard-Günther-Forschungsstelle”) is working at the University of Klagenfurt in Austria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6705555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6705555", "title": "Hans-Georg Backhaus", "text": "Hans-Georg Backhaus\n\nHans-Georg Backhaus (born 1929) is a German Marxian economist and philosopher. He is considered one of the most important theorists on the field of Marx's theory of value. He began a long-term cooperation with Helmut Reichelt already from his years of university studies.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2611765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2611765", "title": "Henry Corbin", "text": "Henry Corbin\n\nHenry Corbin (14 April 1903 – 7 October 1978) was a philosopher, theologian, Iranologist and professor of Islamic Studies at the École pratique des hautes études in Paris, France.\n\nCorbin was born in Paris in April 1903. Although he was Protestant by birth, he was educated in the Catholic tradition and at the age of 19 received a certificate in Scholastic philosophy from the Catholic Institute of Paris. Three years later he took his \"licence de philosophie\" under the Thomist Étienne Gilson. In 1928 he encountered Louis Massignon, director of Islamic studies at the Sorbonne, and it was he who introduced Corbin to the writings of Suhrawardi, the 12th century Persian mystic and philosopher whose work was to profoundly affect the course of Corbin's life. Years later Corbin said \"through my meeting with Suhrawardi, my spiritual destiny for the passage through this world was sealed. Platonism, expressed in terms of the Zoroastrian angelology of ancient Persia, illuminated the path that I was seeking.\"\n\nCorbin is responsible for redirecting the study of Islamic philosophy as a whole. In his \"Histoire de la philosophie islamique\" (1964), he disproved in his research the common view that philosophy among the Muslims came to an end after Ibn Rushd.\n\nThe philosophical life and career of Corbin can be divided into three phases. The first is the 1920s and 1930s, when he was involved in learning and teaching western philosophy. The second is the years between 1939 and 1946, in which he studied Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi and the School of Illumination in Istanbul. The last begins at 1946 and lasts until his death, in which he studied and reintroduced eastern and Islamic philosophy.\n\nIn 1933 he married Stella Leenhardt. In 1939 they traveled to Istanbul, and in 1945 to Tehran. They returned to Paris one year later in July 1946. In 1949, Corbin first attended the annual Eranos Conferences in Ascona, Switzerland. In 1954 he succeeded Louis Massignon in the Chair of Islam and the Religions of Arabia. From the 1950s on he spent autumn in Tehran, winter in Paris and spring in Ascona.\n\nThe three major works upon which his reputation largely rests in the English speaking world were first published in French in the 1950s: \"Avicenna and the Visionary Recital\", \"Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn 'Arabi\"' and \"Spiritual Body & Celestial Earth\". His later major work on Central Asian and Iranian Sufism appears in English with an Introduction by Zia Inayat Khan as \"The Man of Light in Iranian Sufism\". His magnum opus is the four volume \"En Islam Iranien: Aspects spirituels et philosophiques\". It has been translated intoFarsi twice by Dr Enshollah Rahmati and Reza Kuhkan from French (the 4th volume being still untranslated ). , He died on 7 October 1978.\n\nThere are several main themes which together form the core of the spirituality that Corbin defends. The Imagination is the primary means to engage with Creation. Prayer is the \"supreme act of the creative imagination\". He considered himself a Protestant Christian but he abandoned a Christocentric view of history. The grand sweep of his theology of the Holy Spirit embraces Judaism, Christianity and Islam. He defended the central role assigned in theology for the individual as the finite image of the Unique Divine.\n\nHis mysticism is no world-denying asceticism but regards all of Creation as a theophany of the divine. This vision has much in common with what has become known as Creation Spirituality, and the figure of the Angel Holy Spirit is similar to what is sometimes called the Cosmic Christ.\n\nCorbin's work has been criticized by a number of writers. His scholarly objectivity has been questioned on the basis of both a Shi'ite bias, and his theological agenda; he has been accused of being both ahistorically naive and dangerously politically reactionary; and he has been charged with being both an Iranian nationalist and an elitist in both his politics and his spirituality. Forceful rejoinders to the more damning of these critiques by Lory and Subtelny have been particularly lucid.\n\nCorbin's ideas continue to have an impact through the work of colleagues, students and many others influenced by his work. Though this list is far from complete, these include the following prolific Western scholars of Sufism and Islamic thought: Seyyed Hossein Nasr, William Chittick, Christian Jambet, Ali Amir-Moezzi, Hermann Landolt, Pierre Lory, James Cowan, James Morris, and Todd Lawson. In England his influence has been felt in the work of Kathleen Raine, Phillip Sherrard and other members of the Temenos Academy. Corbin was an important source for the archetypal psychology of James Hillman and others who have developed the psychology of Carl Jung. The American literary critic Harold Bloom claims Corbin as a significant influence on his own conception of Gnosticism, and the American poet Charles Olson was a student of Corbin's \"Avicenna and the Visionary Recital\". Corbin's friends and colleagues in France have established L'Association des Amis de Henry et Stella Corbin for the dissemination of his work through meetings and colloquia, and the publication of his posthumous writings.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19395622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19395622", "title": "Herman Tønnessen", "text": "Herman Tønnessen\n\nHerman Tønnessen (24 July 1918 – 2001) was a Norwegian–Canadian philosopher and writer. Having studied with Arne Næss, in the years following the end of World War II he was affiliated with the Norwegian Institute for Social Research. \n\nIn 1957 he became a professor of philosophy at the University of California, USA, a position he held until 1961, when he relocated to the University of Alberta, Canada. \n\nHis primary influences were the pessimistic ideals of German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer and Norwegian biosophist Peter Wessel Zapffe. \n\nIn his essay \"Happiness Is for the Pigs: Philosophy versus Psychotherapy\" (1966), he formulated his attempt to \"out-Zapffe Zapffe\", in rejecting the former's metaphysical theory that life is meaningless, and as a response to Zapffe's claim stated that \"life is not even meaningless\". This idea is further elaborated in the book \"I Choose Truth\" (\"Jeg velger sannheten\" (1983)), a dialogue between Tønnessen and Zapffe in which they discuss the existential condition of humankind.\n\n"}
{"id": "49812838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49812838", "title": "Hikmat Al Muta'alyah", "text": "Hikmat Al Muta'alyah\n\nHikmat al-muta‘aliya fi-l-asfar al-‘aqliyya al-arba‘a (Arabic:الحکمه المتعالیه فی الاسفار العقلیه الاربعه), known as \"Asfar\", is an extended compendium of Islamic philosophy written by the 17th century Islamic scholar, Mulla Sadra. The title means, \"Transcendent Philosophy on the Four Intellectual Journeys\". The book was first published in print in 1865 in Tehran in four volumes, where it was accompanied by a commentary on three of the volumes by Hadi Sabzavari (17971893). To date, no notable, critical English translation of the book has been made. \n\nMulla Sadrā (Ṣadr ad-Dīn Muḥammad Shīrāzī (); Molla Sadra; Mollasadra; or Sadr-ol-Mote'allehin; ()) (c. 1571 CE1640 CE), was an Iranian Shia Islamic philosopher, theologian and \"‘Ālim\" (scholar). He was a prominent figure in the Iranian cultural renaissance of the 17th century. Oliver Leaman of the University of Kentucky calls Mulla Sadra \"the most important and influential philosopher of the last four hundred years in the Muslim world\". Mulla Sadra's writing style is analytic and critical.\n\nThe complete title of the book is \"Al Hikmat Al Motaaliyyah fi Al Asfar Al Aghliyyah al Arbeah\" which means, \"Transcendent Philosophy on the Four Intellectual Journeys\". Mulla Sadra's transcendent theosophy drew from Kalam wisdom, Ishraqi philosophy and peripatetic philosophy. In Arabic, the word \"asfar\" means \"journey\". Mulla Sadra indicated four journeys of man. The book is sometimes referred to as \"Asfar\". It is also sometimes referred to as \"Hekmate Motaalyyah\". However, the book is not to be confused with \"Al Masa'el Al Qodsiyah\".\n\n\"Asfar\" is representative of the greater part of Mulla Sadra's philosophical scholarship. In its nine volumes, \"Asfar\" examines the philosophical opinions of the different schools of Islamic philosophy. In fact, the compendium acts as a history of Islamic philosophies.\n\nMulla Sadra's work considers the nature of reality. It strives to connect essentialism and existentialism. Mulla Sadra's existentialism concerns cosmology as it pertains to Allah. His work synthesizes Avicennism, Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi's Illuminationist philosophy, Ibn Arabi's Sufi metaphysics, and the theology of the Ash'ari school and Twelvers.\n\nIn the first volume of \"Asfar\", Mulla Sadra focuses solely on an analysis of the concept of \"wujud\" (\"being\") and quiddity (essence). The first volume has four \"journeys\". The first journey is concerned with the ontology or the doctrine of being. The second journey is concerned with substance and accidents. The third journey deals with God and his attributes and the fourth journey is about the soul of man and a discussion of man, his destiny, death and resurrection.\n\nIn the tenth section of the third journey of \"Asfar\", Mulla Sadra expresses his opinion on the creation of world. He clarifies the meaning of the word \"universe\" and its place in time. Mulla Sadra says previous philosophers' premises and conclusions about the concept of eternity are correct. However, he says, the eternity of the world is not derived from them. \n\nMulla Sadra advocates a pantheistic doctrine of existence. He also says that God must have a pure existence. Mulla Sadra points out the differences in his conclusions on this topic compared to those of Avicenna.\n\nMirza Mahdi Ashtiyyani has made glossaries for \"Asfar\". In 1958, Allameh Muhammad Hosein Tabatabae'i and Allameh Muzaffar edited the book in a new version presented in nine volumes. In 1974, Javad Mosleh translated \"Asfar\" into Persian. In 1989, Ayatullah Abdullah Javadi-Amoli published a commentary in Persian entitled \"Raheeq-e Makhtum\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28094851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28094851", "title": "Hubert Beckers", "text": "Hubert Beckers\n\nHubert Beckers (4 November 1806 – 10 March 1889) was a German philosopher known chiefly as an expositor of the philosophy of Schelling.\n\nHe was born at Munich, and studied at the university there. In 1832 he was appointed professor of philosophy at the Lyceum at Dillingen, and in 1847 professor of philosophy at the University of Munich. In 1853 he became a member of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "3563367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3563367", "title": "Hypergamy", "text": "Hypergamy\n\nHypergamy (colloquially referred to as \"marrying up\" or \"gold-digging\") is a term used in social science for the act or practice of a person marrying a spouse of higher caste or social status than themselves.\n\nThe antonym \"hypogamy\" refers to the inverse: marrying a person of lower social class or status (colloquially \"marrying down\").\n\nBoth terms were coined in India in the 19th century while translating classical Hindu law books, which used the Sanskrit terms \"anuloma\" and \"pratiloma\", respectively, for the two concepts.\n\nForms of hypergamy have been practiced throughout history, including in India, imperial China, ancient Greece, the Ottoman Empire, and feudal Europe. \n\nToday most people marry their approximate social equals, and in much of the world hypergamy is in slow decline; for example, it is becoming less common for women to marry older men, although hypergamy does not require the man to be older, only of higher status. However, even in relatively gender-equal societies it is generally accepted that young women will often partner with powerful older men; while the general rule is that older men have had more time to gather wealth and status than younger men and they are on average wealthier and of higher status.\n\nStudies of heterosexual mate selection in dozens of countries around the world have found men and women report prioritizing different traits when it comes to choosing a mate, with men tending to prefer women who are young and attractive and women tending to prefer men who are rich, well-educated, ambitious, and attractive. Evolutionary psychologists contend this is an inherent sex difference arising out of sexual selection, with men driven to seek women who will give birth to healthy babies and women driven to seek men who will be able to provide the necessary resources for the family's survival. Social learning theorists, however, say women value men with high earning capacity because women's own ability to earn is constrained by their disadvantaged status in a male-dominated society. They argue that as societies shift towards becoming more gender-equal, women's mate selection preferences will shift as well. Some research supports that theory, including a 2012 analysis of a survey of 8,953 people in 37 countries, which found that the more gender-equal a country, the likelier male and female respondents were to report seeking the same qualities as each other rather than different ones. However, Townsend (1989) surveyed medical students regarding their perception of how the availability of marriage partners changed as their educational careers advanced. Eighty-five percent of the women indicated that \"As my status increases, my pool of acceptable partners decreases.\" In contrast, 90 percent of men felt that \"As my status increases, my pool of acceptable partners increases.\"\n\nGilles Saint-Paul (2008) argued that, based on mathematical models, human female hypergamy occurs because women have greater lost mating opportunity costs from monogamous mating (given their slower reproductive rate and limited window of fertility), and thus must be compensated for this cost of marriage. Marriage reduces the overall genetic quality of her offspring by precluding the possibility of impregnation by a genetically higher quality male, albeit without his parental investment. However, this reduction may be compensated by greater levels of parental investment by her genetically lower quality husband.\n\nAn empirical study examined the mate preferences of subscribers to a computer dating service in Israel that had a highly skewed sex ratio (646 men for 1,000 women). Despite this skewed sex ratio, they found that \"On education and socioeconomic status, women on average express greater hypergamic selectivity; they prefer mates who are superior to them in these traits... while men express a desire for an analogue of hypergamy based on physical attractiveness; they desire a mate who ranks higher on the physical attractiveness scale than they themselves do.\"\n\nOne study did not find a statistical difference in the number of women or men \"marrying-up\" in a sample of 1,109 first-time married couples in the United States.\n\nAnother study has shown that in the UK, hypergamy has decreased significantly since the 1950s.\n\nFor citizens of rural India, hypergamy is an opportunity to modernize. Marriages in rural India are increasingly examples of hypergamy. Farmers and other rural workers want their daughters to have access to city life, for with metropolitan connections comes internet access, better job opportunities, and upper-class social circles. A connection in an urban area creates a broader social horizon for the bride's family, and young children in the family can be sent to live with the couple in the city for better schooling. Hypergamy comes with a cost though; the dowry, which often costs as much or more than an entire house. The high price that has to be borne by parents to arrange a suitable marriage for a daughter has led to increasing rates of abortion of female fetuses.\n\nThe concept of marrying up in India is prevalent due to caste-based class stratification. The women from the higher castes were not allowed to marry men from lower castes. This concept, cited in the Vedas as the Anuloma, was justified as the mechanism to keep the Hindu ideological equivalent of the gene pool from degrading. The opposite of the Anuloma, called the Pratiloma, was not allowed in the ancient Indian society. However, the Vedas cite an example where one such exception was allowed: when the daughter of Sage Shukracharya, Devayani was allowed to marry a Kshatriya king (lower caste compared to Brahmanas in the Indian caste system) named Yayati.\n"}
{"id": "270799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270799", "title": "Instrumentalism", "text": "Instrumentalism\n\nInstrumentalism is an interpretation within the philosophy of science that holds that a successful scientific theory reveals nothing known either true or false about nature's unobservable objects, properties or processes. According to instrumentalists scientific theory is merely a tool whereby humans \"predict\" observations in a particular domain of nature by formulating laws, which state or summarize regularities, while theories themselves do not reveal supposedly hidden aspects of nature that somehow \"explain\" these laws. Initially a novel perspective introduced by Pierre Duhem in 1906, instrumentalism is largely the prevailing theory that underpins the practice of physicists today.\n\nRejecting scientific realism's ambitions to uncover metaphysical truth about nature, instrumentalism is usually categorized as an \"antirealism\", although its mere lack of commitment to scientific theory's realism can be termed \"nonrealism\". Instrumentalism merely bypasses debate concerning whether, for example, a \"particle\" spoken about in particle physics is a discrete entity enjoying individual existence, or is an \"excitation mode\" of a region of a field, or is something else altogether. Instrumentalism holds that theoretical terms need only be useful to predict the phenomena, the observed outcomes.\n\nInstrumentalism is a variety of scientific anti-realism.\n\nNewton's theory of motion, whereby any object instantly interacts with all other objects across the universe, motivated the founder of British empiricism, John Locke, to speculate that matter is capable of thought. The next leading British empiricist, George Berkeley, argued that an object's putative primary qualities as recognized by scientists, such as shape, extension, and impenetrability, are inconceivable without the putative secondary qualities of color, hardness, warmth, and so on. He also posed the question how or why an object could be properly conceived to exist independently of any perception of it. Berkeley did not object to everyday talk about the reality of objects, but instead took issue with philosophers' talk, who spoke as if they knew something beyond sensory impressions that ordinary folk did not.\n\nFor Berkeley, a scientific theory does not state causes or explanations, but simply identifies perceived types of objects and traces their typical regularities. Berkeley thus anticipated the basis of what Auguste Comte in the 1830s called \"positivism\", although Comtean positivism added other principles concerning the scope, method, and uses of science that Berkeley would have disavowed. Berkeley also noted the usefulness of a scientific theory having terms that merely serve to aid calculations without their having to refer to anything in particular, so long as they proved useful in practice. Berkeley thus predated the insight that Logical Positivists-who originated in the late 1920s, but who, by the 1950s, had softened into Logical Empiricists-would be compelled to accept: theoretical terms in science do not always translate into observational terms.\n\nThe last great British empiricist, David Hume, posed a number of challenges to Bacon's inductivism, which had been the prevailing, or at least the professed view concerning the attainment of scientific knowledge. Regarding himself as having placed his own theory of knowledge on par with Newton's theory of motion, Hume supposed that he had championed inductivism over scientific realism. Upon reading Hume's work, Immanuel Kant was \"awakened from dogmatic slumber\", and thus sought to neutralise any threat to science posed by Humean empiricism. Kant would develop the first stark philosophy of physics.\n\nTo save Newton's law of universal gravitation, Immanuel Kant reasoned that the mind is the precondition of experience and so, as the bridge from the noumena, which are how the world's things exist in themselves, to the phenomena, which are humans' recognized experiences. And so mind itself contains the structure that determines \"space\", \"time\", and \"substance\", how mind's own categorization of noumena renders space Euclidean, time constant, and objects' motions exhibiting the very determinism predicted by Newtonian. Kant apparently presumed that the human mind, rather than a phenomenon itself that had evolved, had been predetermined and set forth upon the creation of humankind. In any event, the mind also was the veil of appearance that scientific methods could never lift. And yet the mind could ponder itself and discover such truths. Kant's metaphysics, then, transcendental idealism, secured science from doubt, and yet discarded hope of scientific realism. Meanwhile, it was a watershed for idealist metaphysics, and launched German idealism, most influentially Hegel's absolute idealism or objective idealism, or at least interpretations, often misinterpretations, and political misuses, of it.\n\nAccording the mind virtually no power to know anything beyond direct sensory experience, Ernst Mach's early version of logical positivism (empirio-criticism) verged on idealism. It was alleged to even be a surreptitious solipsism, whereby all that exists is one's own mind. Mach's positivism also strongly asserted the ultimate unity of the empirical sciences. Mach's positivism asserted phenomenalism as to new basis of scientific theory, all scientific terms to refer to either actual or potential sensations, thus eliminating hypotheses while permitting such seemingly disparate scientific theories as physical and psychological to share terms and forms. Phenomenalism was insuperably difficult to implement, yet heavily influenced a new generation of philosophers of science, who emerged in the 1920s while terming themselves \"logical positivists\" while pursuing a program termed \"verificationism\". Logical positivists aimed not to instruct or restrict scientists, but to enlighten and structure philosophical discourse to render \"scientific philosophy\" that would verify philosophical statements as well as scientific theories, and align all human knowledge into a \"scientific worldview\", freeing humankind from so many of its problems due to confused or unclear language.\n\nThe verificationists expected a strict gap between \"theory\" versus \"observation\", mirrored by a theory's \"theoretical terms\" versus \"observable terms\". Believing a theory's posited unobservables to always correspond to observations, the verificationists viewed a scientific theory's theoretical terms, such as \"electron\", as metaphorical or elliptical at observations, such as \"white streak in cloud chamber\". They believed that scientific terms lacked meanings unto themselves, but acquired meanings from the logical structure that was the entire theory that in turn matched \"patterns of experience\". So by translating theoretical terms into observational terms and then decoding the theory's mathematical/logical structure, one could check whether the statement indeed matched patterns of experience, and thereby verify the scientific theory false or true. Such verification would be possible, as never before in science, since translation of theoretical terms into observational terms would make the scientific theory purely empirical, none metaphysical. Yet the logical positivists ran into insuperable difficulties. Moritz Schlick debated with Otto Neurath over foundationalism—the traditional view traced to Descartes as founder of modern Western philosophy—whereupon only nonfoundationalism was found tenable. Science, then, could not find a secure foundation of indubitable truth.\n\nAnd since science aims to reveal not private but public truths, verificationists switched from phenomenalism to physicalism, whereby scientific theory refers to objects observable in space and at least in principle already recognizable by physicists. Finding strict empiricism untenable, verificationism underwent \"liberalization of empiricism\". Rudolf Carnap even suggested that empiricism's basis was pragmatic. Recognizing that verification—proving a theory false or true—was unattainable, they discarded that demand and focused on \"confirmation theory\". Carnap sought simply to quantify a universal law's \"degree of confirmation\"—its probable truth—but, despite his great mathematical and logical skill, discovered equations never operable to yield over \"zero\" degree of confirmation. Carl Hempel found the paradox of confirmation. By the 1950s, the verificationists had established philosophy of science as subdiscipline within academia's philosophy departments. By 1962, verificationists had asked and endeavored to answer seemingly all the great questions about scientific theory. Their discoveries showed that the idealized \"scientific worldview\" was naively mistaken. By then the leader of the legendary venture, Hempel raised the white flag that signaled verificationism's demise. Suddenly striking Western society, then, was Kuhn's landmark thesis, introduced by none other than Carnap, verificationism's greatest firebrand. Instrumentalism exhibited by \"scientists\" often does not even discern unobservable from observable entities.\n\nFrom the 1930s until Thomas Kuhn's 1962 \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\", there were roughly two prevailing views about the nature of science. The popular view was scientific realism, which usually involved a belief that science was progressively unveiling a truer view, and building a better understanding, of nature. The professional approach was logical empiricism, wherein a scientific theory was held to be a logical structure whose terms all ultimately refer to some form of observation, while an objective process neutrally arbiters theory choice, compelling scientists to decide which scientific theory was superior. Physicists knew better, but, busy developing the Standard Model, were so steeped in developing quantum field theory, that their talk, largely metaphorical, perhaps even metaphysical, was unintelligible to the public, while the steep mathematics warded off philosophers of physics. By the 1980s, physicists regarded not \"particles\", but \"fields\" as the more fundamental, and no longer even hoped to discover what entities and processes might be truly fundamental to nature, perhaps not even the field. Kuhn had not claimed to have developed a novel thesis, but instead hoped to synthesize more usefully recent developments in the philosophy of science.\n\nIn 1906, Duhem had introduced the problem of the underdetermination of theory by data, since any dataset could be consistent with several different explanations, how the success of any prediction does not, by affirming the consequent, a deductive fallacy, logically confirm the truth of the theory in question. In the 1930s, Ludwik Fleck had explained the role of perspectivism (logology) in science whereby scientists are trained in \"thought collectives\" to adopt particular \"thought styles\" setting expectations for a proper scientific question, scientific experiment, and scientific data. Scientists manipulate experimental conditions to obtain results that cohere with their own expectations—what the scientists presuppose is realistic—and as a result might be tempted to invoke the experimenter's regress in order to reject unexpected results. They would then redo these experiments under what were supposedly better and more conducive conditions. By the 1960s, physicists recognized two, differing roles of physical theory, \"formalism\" and \"interpretation\". Formalism involved mathematical equations and axioms that, upon input of physical data, yielded certain predictions. Interpretation sought to explain \"why\" they succeeded. \n\nWidely read, Kuhn's 1962 thesis seemed to shatter logical empiricism, whose paradigmatic science was physics and which championed instrumentalism. Yet scientific realists, who were far more tenacious, responded by attacking Kuhn's thesis, perennially depicted thereafter as either illuminated or infamous. Kuhn later indicated that his thesis had been so widely misunderstood that he himself was not a \"Kuhnian\". With logical empiricism's demise, Karl Popper's falsificationism was in the ascendancy, and Popper was knighted in 1965. Yet in 1961, the molecular biology research program had made its first major empirical breakthrough in cracking the \"genetic code\". By the 1970s, molecular genetics' research tools could also be used for genetic engineering. In 1975, philosopher of science Hilary Putnam famously resurrected scientific realism with his \"no miracles\" argument, whereby the best scientific theories' predictive successes would appear miraculous if those theories were not at least \"approximately\" true about reality as it exists in and of itself beyond human perception. Antirealist arguments were formulated in response.\n\nBy rejecting all variants of positivism via its focus on sensations rather than realism, Karl Popper asserted his commitment to scientific realism, merely via the necessary uncertainty of his own falsificationism. Popper alleged that instrumentalism reduces basic science to what is merely applied science.\n\nBas van Fraassen's (1980) project of constructive empiricism focuses on belief in the domain of the observable, so for this reason it is described as a form of instrumentalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34849879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34849879", "title": "Islandora", "text": "Islandora\n\nIslandora is an open-source digital repository system based on Fedora Commons, Drupal and a host of additional applications. It is open source software (released under the GNU General Public License) and was originally developed at the University of Prince Edward Island by the Robertson Library.\n\nIslandora may be used to create large, searchable collections of digital assets of any type and is domain-agnostic in terms of the type of content it can steward. It has a highly modular architecture with a number of key features.\n\n\nThe current release of Islandora is 7.x-1.8 for Drupal 7. There is extensive documentation for the Islandora project, including a YouTube video channel. There are approximately 2 major releases of Islandora each year. Islandora source code is available for download from the Github organization and as a virtual machine image. Annual Islandora events include the Red Island Repository Institute and Islandora Camp.\n\nAs of 2013, 60 recorded implementations were noted, with 14 institutional partners.\n\nThe original development team was 3 people, which as of 2013 had grown to dozens, including an \"Agile software development\" workflow.\n\n\nThe following Bibliography contains references to material that mentions or discusses Islandora.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47159802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47159802", "title": "Ivan Sarailiev", "text": "Ivan Sarailiev\n\nIvan Sarailiev (Sofia, June 1, 1887 – Sofia, May 23, 1969) was a Bulgarian philosopher related to the school of pragmatism.; he finished his major book \"Pragmatism\" in 1938 quoting from Charles Sanders Peirce’s \"Collected Papers\". Sarailiev was the first pragmatist in Eastern Europe and also a \"very early pragmatist\". He also introduced the idea of \"implied reader\" in his reception theory as early as in \"Savremennata nauka y religiata\" (1931) (\"Contemporary Science and Religion\").\n\nAfter graduating from high-school in Sofia in 1905, Sarailiev won a scholarship in the Sorbonne, Paris, and in 1909 he continued his studies in the Oxford University. He attended the lectures of Henri Bergson and Charles Sanders Peirce among others.\nAfter a short stay in Germany (1916-1918), Sarailiev started teaching Philosophy in the Sofia University \"St. Kliment Ohridski\". His lectures placed accent on Immanuel Kant, George Berkeley, Henri Bergson and Thomas Carlyle.\n\nSarailiev traveled through the United Kindgdom (1924-1925) and the United States (1931-1933). The communists taking of power in Bulgaria brought Sarailiev's travels to an end and isolated him from international scholarly community and he was also banned from publishing\"\n\nOther important books of his include: \"Rodovi idei\" (1919), \"Za volyata\" (1924) (\"Essay on Will\") and \"Socrat\" (1947) (\"Socrates\"). He also translated \"Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge\" by George Berkeley in 1914.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26531173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26531173", "title": "Jowo (statue)", "text": "Jowo (statue)\n\nJowo Shakyamuni or Jowo Rinpoche (Wylie \"jo bo rin po che\") is, with Jowo Mikyö Dorje, the most sacred statue in Tibet. Jowo Rinpoche is housed in the Jokhang temple and Jowo Mikyö Dorje in the Ramoche temple in Lhasa.\n\nThe Jowo Rinpoche statue has a long history and is said to have been personally blessed by the Buddha. It came to be owned by the king of Magadha, who gave it to a Tang emperor of China. One of the emperor's clansman's daughter, Wenchen Kongjo took it to Lhasa via Lhagang in a wooden cart when she married King Songtsen Gampo. During Mangsong Mangtsen's reign (649-676), because of a threat that the Tang Chinese might invade, Princess Wencheng is said to have hidden the statue of Jowo Rinpoche in a secret chamber in the Jokhang. Princess Jincheng, sometime after 710 CE, had it placed in the central chapel of the Jokhang. It was replaced at Ramoche by a statue of Jowo Mikyo Dorje, a small bronze statue of the Buddha when he was eight years old, crafted by Vishvakarman, and brought to Lhasa by the Nepalese queen, Bhrikuti. Jowo Mikyo Dorje was badly damaged by the Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution.\n\nThe Ramoche temple was gutted and partially destroyed in the 1960s and the bronze statue disappeared. In 1983 the lower part of it was said to have been found in a Lhasa rubbish heap, and the upper half in Beijing. They have now been joined and the statue is housed in the Ramoche Temple, which was partially restored in 1986, and still showed severe damage in 1993.\n\nThe restoration of the Jowo was possible thanks to Ribur Rinpoche (1923–2006), a revered Lama who was jailed by the Chinese Army in 1959 for 20 years in Lhasa and was released in 1979 in connection with the liberalization politics of Deng Xiaoping. Ribur Rinpoche was granted a position at the Office of Religious Affairs of Tibet and began attempts to bring back spiritual sacred treasures that had been taken to China. In 1983, with the help of the 10th Panchen Lama, he succeeded in finding the upper part of Jowo Mikyö Dorje and returned it to Tibet. The Panchen Lama explained to the Chinese government how sacred the value of Jowos was for Tibetans and that their response to the quest of Ribur Rinpoche would help to prove the sincerity of the new Chinese religious policies.\n\nvon Schroeder, Ulrich. 2001. \"Buddhist Sculptures in Tibet\". Vol. One: \"India & Nepal\"; Vol. Two: \"Tibet & China\". (Volume One: 655 pages with 766 illustrations; Volume Two: 675 pages with 987 illustrations). Hong Kong: Visual Dharma Publications, Ltd. ; Jo bo Rin po che («jowo rinpoche»): pp. 154, 158, 406, 407, 520, 672, 679, 686, 696, 711, 718, 726, 737, 792, 914, 918, 926–929, 1238; Fig. XII–11; Pl. 215A–C.\n"}
{"id": "24408871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24408871", "title": "Krzysztof Pomian", "text": "Krzysztof Pomian\n\nKrzysztof Pomian (born 1934), is a Polish philosopher, historian and essayist. He is a professor of history at the Uniwersytet Mikołaja Kopernika (Nicolaus Copernicus University) in Toruń and, since 2001, academic director of the Museum of Europe in Brussels.\n\nPomian's specialization lies in the socio-cultural history of France, Italy, and Poland. He teaches as the dean of studies at the École des hautes études en sciences sociales and is an editor of the magazine \"Le Débat\". Since 1968, he has also been a visiting professor at the Université catholique de Louvain (Belgium), where he lectures on the history of European societies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12799942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12799942", "title": "Learned intermediary", "text": "Learned intermediary\n\nLearned intermediary is a defense doctrine used in the legal system of the United States. This doctrine states that a manufacturer of a product has fulfilled his duty of care when he provides all of the necessary information to a \"learned intermediary\" who then interacts with the consumer of a product. This doctrine is primarily used by pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers in defense of tort suits. \n\nIn a clear majority of states, the courts have accepted this as a liability shield for pharmaceutical companies. \n\nThis doctrine was adopted by the Supreme Court of Canada in \"Hollis v Dow Corning Corp.\", 129 DLR 609 (1995).\n\nThe use of the term \"learned intermediary\" was first used in the Eighth Circuit decision of \"Sterling Drug v. Cornish\" (370 F.2d 82, 85), in 1966, and has now become the prevailing doctrine in the majority of jurisdictions in the United States.\n\nRecently, this doctrine has been called into question due to the increased use of direct to consumer advertising, whereby drug manufacturers market pharmaceutical products to individuals rather than to doctors. For example, in \"Rimbert v. Eli Lilly & Co.\", 577 F. Supp. 2d 1174, 1218-19 (D. N.M. 2008), the District Court of New Mexico reasoned that the \"dramatically increased marketing directed to consumers . . . would persuade the Supreme Court of New Mexico that the justification for the learned-intermediary doctrine is quickly becoming, if not already the case, outdated.\" However, other recent cases have declined to adopt this so-called \"direct-to-consumer advertising\" exception to the learned intermediary doctrine. \"See DiBartolo v. Abbott Labs.\", 2012 WL 6681704 (S.D.N.Y. Dec.21, 2012), \"Centocor Inc. v. Hamilton\", 372 S.W.3d 140, 161 (Tex. 2012), \"Calisi v. Abbott Labs.\", 2013 WL 5462274 (D. Mass. Feb. 25, 2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "2318732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2318732", "title": "Najm al-Din Razi", "text": "Najm al-Din Razi\n\nAbū Bakr 'Abdollāh b. Moḥammad b. Šahāvar b. Anūšervān al-Rāzī () commonly known by the \"laqab\", or sobriquet, of Najm al-Dīn Dāya, meaning \"wetnurse\" (573 AH/1177 – 654 AH/1256) was a 13th-century Persian Sufi from Khwarezmia. Hamid Algar, translator of the Persian \"Merṣād\" to English, states the application of \"wetnurse\" to the author of the \"Merṣād\" derives from the idea of the initiate on the Path being a newborn infant who needs suckling to survive. Dāya followed the Sufi order, Kubrawiyya, established by one of his greatest influences, Najm al-Dīn Kubrā. Dāya traveled to Kārazm and soon became a \"morīd\" (pupil, one who follows the shaykh master and learns from him, undergoing spiritual training) of Najm al-Dīn Kubrā. Kubrā then appointed Shaikh Majd al-Dīn Bagdādī as the spiritual trainer who also became Dāya's biggest influence. Dāya constantly refers to al-Dīn Bagdādī as \"our shaikh.\"\n\nWhen his master, Najm al-Dīn Kubrā, was murdered in 618/1221, Dāya fled to Hamadan, then to Ardabil, and then to Anatolia where he finally settled with a fellow contemporary master Rumi.\n\nThere he put the teachings of his master Najmeddin Kubra into a writing in Persian called by the Arabic title \"Mirṣād al-ʻibād min al-mabdaʼ ilāʼl-maʻād\" (ِِArabic: مرصاد العباد من المبدأ الی المعاد) which is shortly known as Merṣād al-ʻebād, and has gained prominence as a major reference text on Sufism and Islamic theology. The critical edition of Merṣād al-ʻebād by Mohammad-Amin Riahi was published in 1973 in Tehran and since then has been continued to be in print. This is a closely annotated scholarly edition, along with a comprehensive introduction on the life and works of Najmeddin Razi, which has been the major reference for later studies on Najmeddin Razi and Sufism. Merṣād al-ʻebād was translated by Hamid Algar into English as \"The Path of God's Bondsmen: From Origin to Return.\"\n\nDāya was born in Rey, then one of the major centers of urban life and culture in pre-Mongol Iran, in 1117. At the age of 26, Rāzī travelled through Syria, Egypt, Ḥejāz, Iraq, and Azerbaijan. He finally settled in Kārazm and soon become a morīd to Najm al-Dīn Kubrā, a mystical Sufi and founder of the Kubrawiyya Order. Rāzī was then tutored by Shaikh Majd al-Dīn Baḡdādī, who Rāzī often refers to as \"our shaikh.\" Rāzī then flees Kārazm due to Kubrā’s prophecy of a Mongol invasion. Finally, Rāzī fled Rey as well, willingly abandoning his family to the Mongol invasion. Traveling via Hamadān, Erbīl, and Diyarbekir, he reached Kayseri in central Anatolia in Ramadān 618/October 1221. Thanks to Seljuq patronage, Anatolia was a center for the cultivation of Persian literature.\n\nAt Malatya, Razi met Shaikh Sehab al-Din Abu Hafs ‘Omar al-Sohravardi, nephew of the founder of the Sohravardi order. In October 1221 he reached Kayseri. He completed the \"Merad\" at Sivas in August 1223.\n\nThe term \"Merṣād\" refers to the path from Qur'anic verse 89:14; \"Verily thy Lord watches over the path\". The divine vigilance implied here is generally taken as referring to God's omniscience of men's deeds, but it is plain that Dāya takes it in a slightly different sense, that of a protective and guarding vigilance. The second part of the title, \"men al-mabda' elā' l-ma'ād\" (\"from origin to return\") is to be found in the titles of many works that purport to treat in comprehensive fashion both cosmogony and eschatology and all that lies between.\n\nThe comprehensiveness promised in this title of the work is amply fulfilled in its text. It deals, in a systematic manner, with the origins of the various realms and orders of creation, prophethood and the different dimensions of religion, the ritual practices, mores, and institutions of Sufism, the destinations that await different classes of men in the hereafter, and the fashion in which different professions and trades may come to yield spiritual benefit and heavenly reward.\n\nA particular virtue of the book is its clear demonstration of the Qur'anic origins of Sufism. The numerous quotations from the Qur'an are not to be regarded as mere ornament, nor even as scriptural proofs adduced in support of various statements. Rather, they bear witness to the fact that for Dāya, as for other Sufis, the Qur'an constitutes a well-structured, seamless, and coherent universe. The Qur'anic verses encountered throughout the book are the loom on which it is woven, a particular sense for each verse being implied by the context in which it occurs.\n\nAnother prominent feature of the book is the frequency with which it draws parallels between the inner and the outer worlds, particularly with references to processes of growth and development i.e. seed, tree, branch, fruit; the emergence of the hen from the egg. Dāya says in his commentary of the Qur'an, \"Verily all that God created in the world of form has its like in the world of meaning; all that He created in the world of meaning- this being the hereafter- has its true essence in the world of reality, which is the uttermost unseen. Know too that of all that God created in all the worlds, a specimen and sample is present in man.\" It follows, then, that inner and unseen processes may be accurately described in terms of their outer counterparts.\nThe literary importance of the \"Merṣād\" is considerable: it ranks among the masterpieces of Persian literature, and certain sections – particularly the narrative of the creation and appointment of Adam – bear comparison with the best prose written in Persian. Dāya's choice of illustrative verses- both those of his own composition and those of his predecessors -is judicious, and makes of his work an incidental anthology of Sufi poetry, particularly quatrains.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "703002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=703002", "title": "Neuroethics", "text": "Neuroethics\n\nNeuroethics refers to two related fields of study: what the philosopher Adina Roskies has called the ethics of neuroscience, and the neuroscience of ethics. The ethics of neuroscience comprises the bulk of work in neuroethics. It concerns the ethical, legal and social impact of neuroscience, including the ways in which neurotechnology can be used to predict or alter human behavior and \"the implications of our mechanistic understanding of brain function for society... integrating neuroscientific knowledge with ethical and social thought\".\n\nSome neuroethics problems are not fundamentally different from those encountered in bioethics. Others are unique to neuroethics because the brain, as the organ of the mind, has implications for broader philosophical problems, such as the nature of free will, moral responsibility, self-deception, and personal identity. Examples of neuroethics topics are given later in this article (\"Key issues in neuroethics\").\n\nThe origin of the term \"neuroethics\" has occupied some writers. Rees and Rose (as cited in \"References\" on page 9) claim \"neuroethics\" is a neologism that emerged only at the beginning of the 21st century, largely through the oral and written communications of ethicists and philosophers. According to Racine (2010), the term was coined by the Harvard physician Anneliese A. Pontius in 1973 in a paper entitled \"Neuro-ethics of 'walking' in the newborn\" for the \"Perceptual and Motor Skills\". The author reproposed the term in 1993 in her paper for \"Psychological Report\", often wrongly mentioned as the first title containing the word \"neuroethics\". Before 1993, the American neurologist Ronald Cranford has used the term (see Cranford 1989). Illes (2003) records uses, from the scientific literature, from 1989 and 1991. Writer William Safire is widely credited with giving the word its current meaning in 2002, defining it as \"the examination of what is right and wrong, good and bad about the treatment of, perfection of, or unwelcome invasion of and worrisome manipulation of the human brain\".\n\nNeuroethics encompasses the myriad ways in which developments in basic and clinical neuroscience intersect with social and ethical issues. The field is so young that any attempt to define its scope and limits now will undoubtedly be proved wrong in the future, as neuroscience develops and its implications continue to be revealed. At present, however, we can discern two general categories of neuroethical issue: those emerging from what we can do and those emerging from what we know.\n\nIn the first category are the ethical problems raised by advances in functional neuroimaging, psychopharmacology, brain implants and brain-machine interfaces. In the second category are the ethical problems raised by our growing understanding of the neural bases of behavior, personality, consciousness, and states of spiritual transcendence.\n\nPrimitive societies for the most part lacked a system of neuroethics to guide them in facing the problems of mental illness and violence as civilization advanced. Trepanation led through a tortuous course to \"psychosurgery\". Basic neuroscience research and psychosurgery advanced in the first half of the 20th century in tandem, but neuroscience ethics was left behind science and technology. Medical ethics in modern societies even in democratic governments, not to mention in authoritarian ones, has not kept pace with the advances of technology despite the announced social \"progress\"; and ethics continues to lag behind science in dealing with the problem of mental illness in association with human violence. Unprovoked \"pathological\" aggression persists, reminding us daily that civilization is a step away from relapsing into barbarism. Neuroscience ethics (neuroethics) must keep up with advances in neuroscience research and remain separate from state-imposed mandates to face this challenge.\n\nA recent writer on the history of psychosurgery as it relates to neuroethics concludes: \"The lessons of history sagaciously reveal wherever the government has sought to alter medical ethics and enforce bureaucratic bioethics, the results have frequently vilified medical care and research. In the 20th century in both the communist USSR and Nazi Germany, medicine regressed after these authoritarian systems corrupted the ethics of the medical profession and forced it to descend to unprecedented barbarism. The Soviet psychiatrists and Nazi doctor's dark descent into barbarism was a product of physicians willingly cooperating with the totalitarian state, purportedly in the name of the \"collective good\", at the expense of their individual patients.\" This must be kept in mind when establishing new guidelines in neuroscience research and bioethics.\n\nThere is no doubt that people were thinking and writing about the ethical implications of neuroscience for many years before the field adopted the label \"neuroethics\", and some of this work remains of great relevance and value. However, the early 21st century saw a tremendous surge in interest concerning the ethics of neuroscience, as evidenced by numerous meetings, publications and organizations dedicated to this topic.\n\nIn 2002, there were several meetings that drew together neuroscientists and ethicists to discuss neuroethics: the American Association for the Advancement of Science with the journal \"Neuron\", the University of Pennsylvania, the Royal Society, Stanford University, and the Dana Foundation. This last meeting was the largest, and resulted in a book, \"Neuroethics: Mapping the Field\", edited by Steven J. Marcus and published by Dana Press. That same year, the \"Economist\" ran a cover story entitled \"Open Your Mind: The Ethics of Brain Science\", \"Nature\" published the article \"Emerging ethical issues in neuroscience\". Further articles appeared on neuroethics in \"Nature Neuroscience\", \"Neuron\", and \"Brain and Cognition\".\n\nThereafter, the number of neuroethics meetings, symposia and publications continued to grow. The over 38 000 members of the Society for Neuroscience recognized the importance of neuroethics by inaugurating an annual \"special lecture\" on the topic, first given by Donald Kennedy, editor-in-chief of Science Magazine. Several overlapping networks of scientists and scholars began to coalesce around neuroethics-related projects and themes. For example, the American Society for Bioethics and Humanities established a Neuroethics Affinity Group, students at the London School of Economics established the Neuroscience and Society Network linking scholars from several different institutions, and a group of scientists and funders from around the world began discussing ways to support international collaboration in neuroethics through what came to be called the International Neuroethics Network. Stanford began publishing the monthly Stanford Neuroethics Newsletter, Penn developed the informational website neuroethics.upenn.edu, and the Neuroethics and Law Blog was launched.\n\nSeveral relevant books were published during this time as well: Sandra Ackerman's \"Hard Science, Hard Choices: Facts, Ethics and Policies Guiding Brain Science Today\" (Dana Press), Michael Gazzaniga's \"The Ethical Brain\" (Dana Press), Judy Illes' edited volume, \"Neuroethics: Defining the Issues in Theory, Practice and Policy\" (both Oxford University Press), Dai Rees and Steven Rose's edited volume \"The New Brain Sciences: Perils and Prospects\" (Cambridge University Press) and Steven Rose's \"The Future of the Brain\" (Oxford University Press).\n\n2006 marked the founding of the International Neuroethics Society (INS) (originally the Neuroethics Society), an international group of scholars, scientists, clinicians, and other professionals who share an interest in the social, legal, ethical and policy implications of advances in neuroscience. The mission of the International Neuroethics Society \"is to promote the development and responsible application of neuroscience through interdisciplinary and international research, education, outreach and public engagement for the benefit of people of all nations, ethnicities, and cultures\". The first President of the INS was Steven Hyman (2006–2014), succeeded by Barbara Sahakian (2014–2016). Judy Illes is the current President, who like Hyman and Sahakian, was also a pioneer in the field of neuroethics and a founder member of the INS.\n\nOver the next several years many centers for neurotics were established. A 2014 review of the field lists 31 centers and programs around the world; some of the longest running include the Neuroethics Research Unit at the Institut de recherches cliniques de Montreal (IRCM), the National Core for Neuroethics at the University of British Columbia in 2007, the Center for Neurotechnology Studies of the Potomac Institute for Policy Studies, the Wellcome Centre for Neuroethics at the University of Oxford; and the Center for Neuroscience & Society at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nThe books, articles and websites mentioned above are by no means a complete list of good neuroethics information sources. For example, readings and websites that focus on specific aspects of neuroethics, such as brain imaging or enhancement, are not included. Nor are more recent sources, such as Walter Glannon's book \"Bioethics and the Brain\" (Oxford University Press) and his reader, entitled Defining Right and Wrong in Brain Science (Dana Press). We should also here mention a book that was in many ways ahead of its time, Robert Blank's Brain Policy (published in 1999 by Georgetown University Press). The scholarly literature on neuroethics has grown so quickly that one cannot easily list all of the worthwhile articles, and several journals are now soliciting neuroethics submissions for publication, including the \"American Journal of Bioethics – Neuroscience\", \"BioSocieties\", the \"Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience\", and \"Neuroethics\". The web now has many sites, blogs and portals offering information about neuroethics. A list can be found at the end of this entry.\n\nNeuroethics encompasses a wide range of issues, which can only be sampled here. Some have close ties to traditional biomedical ethics, in that different versions of these issues can arise in connection with organ systems other than the brain. For example, how should incidental findings be handled when a presumed healthy research subject is scanned for neuroscience research and the scan reveals an abnormality? How safe are the drugs used to enhance normal brain function? These are neuroethical issues with clear precedents in traditional bioethics. They are important issues, and luckily we can call upon society's experience with the relevant precedents to help determine the best courses of action in the present cases. In contrast, many neuroethical issues are at least partly novel, and this accounts for some of the intellectual fascination of neuroethics. These relatively newer issues force us to think about the relation between mind and brain and its ethical implications.\n\nThe ethics of neurocognitive enhancement, that is the use of drugs and other brain interventions to make normal people \"better than well\", is an example of a neuroethical issue with both familiar and novel aspects. On the one hand, we can be informed by previous bioethical work on physical enhancements such as doping for strength in sports and the use of human growth hormone for normal boys of short stature. On the other hand, there are also some arguably novel ethical issues that arise in connection with brain enhancement, because these enhancements affect how people think and feel, thus raising the relatively new issues of \"cognitive liberty\". The growing role of psychopharmacology in everyday life raises a number of ethical issues, for example the influence of drug marketing on our conceptions of mental health and normalcy, and the increasingly malleable sense of personal identity that results from what Peter D. Kramer called \"cosmetic psychopharmacology\".\n\nNonpharmacologic methods of altering brain function are currently enjoying a period of rapid development, with a resurgence of psychosurgery for the treatment of medication refractory mental illnesses and promising new therapies for neurological and psychiatric illnesses based on deep brain stimulation as well as relatively noninvasive transcranial stimulation methods. Research on brain-machine interfaces is primarily in a preclinical phase but promises to enable thought-based control of computers and robots by paralyzed patients. As the tragic history of frontal lobotomy reminds us, permanent alteration of the brain cannot be undertaken lightly. Although nonpharmacologic brain interventions are exclusively aimed at therapeutic goals, the US military sponsors research in this general area (and more specifically in the use of transcranial direct current stimulation) that is presumably aimed at enhancing the capabilities of soldiers.\n\nIn addition to the important issues of safety and incidental findings, mentioned above, some arise from the unprecedented and rapidly developing ability to correlate brain activation with psychological states and traits. One of the most widely discussed new applications of imaging is based on correlations between brain activity and intentional deception. Intentional deception can be thought of in the context of a lie detector. This means that scientists use brain imaging to look at certain parts of the brain during moments when a person is being deceptive. A number of different research groups have identified fMRI correlates of intentional deception in laboratory tasks, and despite the skepticism of many experts, the technique has already been commercialized. A more feasible application of brain imaging is \"neuromarketing\", whereby people's conscious or unconscious reaction to certain products can purportedly be measured.\n\nResearchers are also finding brain imaging correlates of myriad psychological traits, including personality, intelligence, mental health vulnerabilities, attitudes toward particular ethnic groups, and predilection for violent crime. Unconscious racial attitudes may be manifest in brain activation. These capabilities of brain imaging, actual and potential, raise a number of ethical issues. The most obvious concern involves privacy. For example, employers, marketers, and the government all have a strong interest in knowing the abilities, personality, truthfulness and other mental contents of certain people. This raises the question of whether, when, and how to ensure the privacy of our own minds.\n\nAnother ethical problem is that brain scans are often viewed as more accurate and objective than in fact they are. Many layers of signal processing, statistical analysis and interpretation separate imaged brain activity from the psychological traits and states inferred from it. There is a danger that the public (including judges and juries, employers, insurers, etc.) will ignore these complexities and treat brain images as a kind of indisputable truth.\n\nA related misconception is called neuro-realism: In its simplest form, this line of thought says that something is real because it can be measured with electronic equipment. A person who claims to have pain, or low libido, or unpleasant emotions is \"really\" sick if these symptoms are supported by a brain scan, and healthy or normal if correlates cannot be found in a brain scan. The case of phantom limbs demonstrate the inadequacy of this approach.\n\nWhile complete memory erasure is still an element of science-fiction, certain neurological drugs have been proven to dampen the strength and emotional association of a memory. Propranolol, an FDA-approved drug, has been suggested to effectively dull the painful effects of traumatic memories if taken within 6 hours after the event occurs. This has begun the discussion of ethical implications, assuming the technology for memory erasure will only improve.\nOriginally, propranolol was reserved for hypertension patients. However, doctors are permitted to use the drug for off-label purposes—leading to the question of whether they actually \"should\". There are numerous reasons for skepticism; for one, it may prevent us from coming to terms with traumatic experiences, it may tamper with our identities and lead us to an artificial sense of happiness, demean the genuineness of human life, and/or encourage some to forget memories they are morally obligated to keep. Whether or not it is ethical to fully or partially erase the memory of a patient, it is certainly becoming a more relevant topic as this technology improves in our society.\n\nMost of the issues concerning uses of stem cells in the brain are the same as any of the bioethical or purely ethical questions you will find regarding the use and research of stem cells. The field of stem cell research is a very new field which poses many ethical questions concerning the allocation of stem cells as well as their possible uses. Since most stem cell research is still in its preliminary phase most of the neuroethical issues surrounding stem cells are the same as stem cell ethics in general.\n\nMore specifically the way that stem cell research has been involved in neuroscience is through the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases and brain tumors. In these cases scientists are using neural stem cells to regenerate tissue and to be used as carriers for gene therapy. In general, neuroethics revolves around a cost benefit approach to find techniques and technologies that are most beneficial to patients. There has been progress in certain fields that have been shown to be beneficial when using stem cells to treat certain neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease.\n\nA study done in 2011 showed that induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) can be used to aid in Parkinson's research and treatment. The cells can be used to study the progression of Parkinson's as well as used in regenerative treatment. Animal studies have shown that the use of iPSCs can improve motor skills and dopamine release of test subjects with Parkinson's. This study shows a positive outcome in the use of stem cells for neurological purposes.\n\nIn another study done in 2011 used stem cells to treat cerebral palsy. This study, however, was not as successful as the Parkinson's treatment. In this case stem cells were used to treat animal models who had been injured in a way that mimicked CP. This brings up a neuroethical issue of animal models used in science. Since most of their \"diseases\" are inflicted and do not occur naturally, they can not always be reliable examples of how a person with the actual disease would respond to treatment. The stem cells used did survive implantation, but did not show significant nerve regeneration. However, studies are ongoing in this area.\n\nAs discussed, stem cells are used to treat degenerative diseases. One form of a degenerative disease that can occur in the brain as well as throughout the body is an autoimmune disease. Autoimmune diseases cause the body to \"attack\" its own cells and therefore destroys those cells as well as whatever functional purpose those cells have or contribute to. One form of an autoimmune disease that affects the central nervous system is multiple sclerosis. In this disease the body attacks the glial cells that form myelin coats around the axons on neurons. This causes the nervous system to essentially \"short circuit\" and pass information very slowly. Stem cells therapy has been used to try to cure some of the damage caused by the body in MS. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation has been used to try and cure MS patients by essentially \"reprogramming\" their immune system. The main risk encountered with this form of treatment is the possibility of rejection of the stem cells. If the hematopoetic stem cells can be harvested from the individual, risk of rejection is much lower. But, there can be the risk of those cells being programmed to induce MS. However, if the tissue is donated from another individual there is high risk of rejection leading to possibly fatal toxicity in the recipient's body. Considering that there are fairly good treatments for MS, the use of stem cells in this case may have a higher cost than the benefits they produce. However, as research continues perhaps stem cells will truly become a viable treatment for MS as well as other autoimmune diseases.\n\nThese are just some examples of neurological diseases in which stem cell treatment has been researched. In general, the future looks promising for stem cell application in the field of neurology. However, possible complications lie in the overall ethics of stem cell use, possible recipient rejection, as well as over-proliferation of the cells causing possible brain tumors. Ongoing research will further contribute in the decision of whether stem cells should be used in the brain and whether their benefits truly outweigh their costs.\n\nThe primary ethical dilemma that is brought up in stem cell research is concerning the source of embryonic stem cells (hESCs). As the name states, hESCs come from embryos. To be more specific, they come from the inner cell mass of a blastophere, which is the beginning stage of an embryo. However, that mass of cells could have the potential to give rise to human life, and there in lies the problem. Often, this argument leads back to a similar moral debate held around abortion. The question is: when does a mass of cells gain personhood and autonomy? Some individuals believe that an embryo is in fact a person at the moment of conception and that using an embryo for anything other than creating a baby would essentially be killing a baby. On the other end of the spectrum, people argue that the small ball of cells at that point only has the potential to become a fetus, and that potentiality, even in natural conception, is far from guaranteed. According to a study done by developmental biologists, between 75–80% of embryos created through intercourse are naturally lost before they can become fetuses. This debate is not one that has a right or wrong answer, nor can it be clearly settled. Much of the ethical dilemma surrounding hESCs relies on individual beliefs about life and the potential for scientific advancement versus creating new human life.\n\nPatients in coma, vegetative, or minimally conscious state pose ethical challenges. The patients are unable to respond, therefore the assessment of their needs can only be approached by adopting a third person perspective. They are unable to communicate their pain levels, quality of life, or end of life preferences. Neuroscience and brain imaging have allowed us to explore the brain activity of these patients more thoroughly. Recent findings from studies using functional magnetic resonance imaging have changed the way we view vegetative patients. The images have shown that aspects emotional processing, language comprehension and even conscious awareness might be retained in patients whose behavior suggests a vegetative state. If this is the case, it is unethical to allow a third party to dictate the life and future of the patient. For example, defining death is an issue that comes with patients with severe traumatic brain injuries. The decision to withdraw life-sustaining care from these patients can be based on uncertain assessments about the individual's conscious awareness. Case reports have shown that these patients in a persistent vegetative state can recover unexpectedly. This raises the ethical question about the premature termination of care by physicians. The hope is that one day, neuroimaging technologies can help us to define these different states of consciousness and enable us to communicate with patients in vegetative states in a way that was never before possible. The clinical translation of these advanced technologies is of vital importance for the medical management of these challenging patients. In this situation, neuroscience has both revealed ethical issues and possible solutions.\n\nCosmetic neuro-pharmacology, the use of drugs to improve cognition in normal healthy individuals, is highly controversial. Some case reports with the antidepressant Prozac indicated that patients seemed \"better than well\", and authors hypothesized that this effect might be observed in individuals not afflicted with psychiatric disorders. Following these case reports much controversy arose over the veracity and ethics of the cosmetic use of these antidepressants. Opponents of cosmetic pharmacology believe that such drug usage is unethical and that the concept of cosmetic pharmacology is a manifestation of naive consumerism. Proponents, such as philosopher Arthur Caplan, state that it is an individual's (rather than government's, or physician's) right to determine whether to use a drug for cosmetic purposes. Anjan Chatterjee, a neurologist at the University of Pennsylvania, has argued that western medicine stands on the brink of a neuro-enhancement revolution in which people will be able to improve their memory and attention through pharmacological means. Jacob Appel, a Brown University bioethicist, has raised concerns about the possibility of employers mandating such enhancement for their workers. The ethical concerns regarding pharmacological enhancement are not limited to Europe and North America, indeed, there is increasing attention given to cultural and regulatory contexts for this phenomenon, around the globe.\n\nThe politics of neuromarketing is this idea of using advertisements to convince the mind of a voter to vote for a certain party. This has already been happening within the elections throughout the years. In the 2006 reelection of Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, he was double digits off in the voting in comparison to his Democratic opponent. However, Schwarzenegger's theme in this campaign was whether or not the voters would want to continue Schwarzenegger's reforms or go back to the days of the recalled governor, Gray Davis. In normal marketing, voters would use \"detail, numbers, facts and figures to prove we were better off under the new governor\". However, with neuromarketing, voters followed powerful advertisement visuals and used these visuals to convince themselves that Schwarzenegger was the better candidate. Now, with political neuromarketing, there exists a lot of controversy. The ethics behind political neuromarketing are debatable. Some argue that political neuromarketing will cause voters to make rash decisions while others argue that these messages are beneficial because they depict what the politicians can do. However, control over political decisions could make voters not see the reality of things. Voters may not look into the details of the reforms, personality, and morality each person brings to their political campaign and may be swayed by how powerful the advertisements seem to be. However, there are also people that may disagree with this idea. Darryl Howard, \"a consultant to two Republican winners on November 2, says he crafted neuromarketing-based messages for TV, direct mail and speeches for Senate, Congressional and Gubernatorial clients in 2010\". He says that these advertisements that were presented, show honesty and continues to say how he and other politicians decide which advertisements are the most effective.\n\nNeuroscience has led to a deeper understanding of the chemical imbalances present in a disordered brain. In turn, this has resulted in the creation of new treatments and medications to treat these disorders. When these new treatments are first being tested, the experiments prompt ethical questions. First, because the treatment is affecting the brain, the side effects can be unique and sometimes severe. A special kind of side effect that many subjects have claimed to experience in neurological treatment tests is changes in \"personal identity\". Although this is a difficult ethical dilemma because there are no clear and undisputed definitions of personality, self, and identity, neurological treatments can result in patients losing parts of \"themselves\" such as memories or moods. Yet another ethical dispute in neurological treatment research is the choice of patients. From a perspective of justice, priority should be given to those who are most seriously impaired and who will benefit most from the intervention. However, in a test group, scientists must select patients to secure a favorable risk-benefit ratio. Setting priority becomes more difficult when a patient's chance to benefit and the seriousness of their impairment do not go together. For example, many times an older patient will be excluded despite the seriousness of their disorder simply because they are not as strong or as likely to benefit from the treatment. The main ethical issue at the heart of neurological treatment research on human subjects is promoting high-quality scientific research in the interest of future patients, while at the same time respecting and guarding the rights and interests of the research subjects. This is particularly difficult in the field of neurology because damage to the brain is often permanent and will change a patient's way of life forever.\n\nNeuroethics also encompasses the ethical issues raised by neuroscience as it affects our understanding of the world and of ourselves in the world. For example, if everything we do is physically caused by our brains, which are in turn a product of our genes and our life experiences, how can we be held responsible for our actions? A crime in the United States requires a \"guilty act\" and a \"guilty mind\". As neuropsychiatry evaluations have become more commonly used in the criminal justice system and neuroimaging technologies have given us a more direct way of viewing brain injuries, scholars have cautioned that this could lead to the inability to hold anyone criminally responsible for their actions. In this way, neuroimaging evidence could suggest that there is no free will and each action a person makes is simply the product of past actions and biological impulses that are out of our control. The question of whether and how personal autonomy is compatible with neuroscience ethics and the responsibility of neuroscientists to society and the state is a central one for neuroethics. However, there is some controversy over whether autonomy entails the concept of 'free will' or is a 'moral-political' principle separate from metaphysical quandaries.\nIn late 2013 U.S. President Barack Obama made recommendations to the Presidential Commission for the Study of Bioethical Issues as part of his $100 million Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative. This Spring discussion resumed in a recent interview and article sponsored by Agence France-Presse (AFP): \"It is absolutely critical... to integrate ethics from the get-go into neuroscience research,\" and not \"for the first time after something has gone wrong\", said Amy Gutmann, Bioethics Commission Chair.\" But no consensus has been reached. Miguel Faria, a Professor of Neurosurgery and an Associate Editor in Chief of Surgical Neurology International, who was not involved in the Commission's work said, \"any ethics approach must be based upon respect for the individual, as doctors pledge according to the Hippocratic Oath which includes vows to be humble, respect privacy and doing no harm; and pursuing a path based on population-based ethics is just as dangerous as having no medical ethics at all\". Why the danger of population-based bioethics? Faria asserts, \"it is centered on utilitarianism, monetary considerations, and the fiscal and political interests of the state, rather than committed to placing the interest of the individual patient or experimental subject above all other considerations\". For her part, Gutmann believes the next step is \"to examine more deeply the ethical implications of neuroscience research and its effects on society\".\n\nMain Editor: Neil Levy, CAPPE, Melbourne; University of Oxford\n\nNeuroethics is an international peer-reviewed journal dedicated to academic articles on the ethical, legal, political, social and philosophical issues provoked by research in the contemporary sciences of the mind, especially, but not only, neuroscience, psychiatry and psychology. The journal publishes high-quality reflections on questions raised by the sciences of the mind, and on the ways in which the sciences of the mind illuminate longstanding debates in ethics.\n\nMain Editor: Paul Root Wolpe, Emory University\n\nAJOB Neuroscience, the official journal of the International Neuroethics Society, is devoted to covering critical topics in the emerging field of neuroethics. The journal is a new avenue in bioethics and strives to present a forum in which to: foster international discourse on topics in neuroethics, provide a platform for debating current issues in neuroethics, and enable the incubation of new emerging priorities in neuroethics. AJOB-Neuroscience launched in 2007 as a section of the \"American Journal of Bioethics\" and became an independent journal in 2010, publishing four issues a year.\n\n\n\nIssues in Neuroscience\n\n"}
{"id": "40041779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40041779", "title": "Nuclear ethics", "text": "Nuclear ethics\n\nNuclear ethics is a cross-disciplinary field of academic and policy-relevant study in which the problems associated with nuclear warfare, nuclear deterrence, nuclear arms control, nuclear disarmament, or nuclear energy are examined through one or more ethical or moral theories or frameworks. In contemporary security studies, the problems of nuclear warfare, deterrence, proliferation, and so forth are often understood strictly in political, strategic, or military terms. In the study of international organizations and law, however, these problems are also understood in legal terms. Nuclear ethics assumes that the very real possibilities of human extinction, mass human destruction, or mass environmental damage which could result from nuclear warfare are deep ethical or moral problems. Specifically, it assumes that the outcomes of human extinction, mass human destruction, or environmental damage count as moral evils. Another area of inquiry concerns future generations and the burden that nuclear waste and pollution imposes on them. Some scholars have concluded that it is therefore morally wrong to act in ways that produce these outcomes, which means it is morally wrong to engage in nuclear warfare.\n\nNuclear ethics is interested in examining policies of nuclear deterrence, nuclear arms control and disarmament, and nuclear energy insofar as they are linked to the cause or prevention of nuclear warfare. Ethical justifications of nuclear deterrence, for example, emphasize its role in preventing great power nuclear war since the end of World War II. Indeed, some scholars claim that nuclear deterrence seems to be the morally rational response to a nuclear-armed world. Moral condemnation of nuclear deterrence, in contrast, emphasizes the seemingly inevitable violations of human and democratic rights which arise.\n\nThe application of nuclear technology, both as a source of energy and as an instrument of war, has been controversial.\n\nEven before the first nuclear weapons had been developed, scientists involved with the Manhattan Project were divided over the use of the weapon. The role of the two atomic bombings of the country in Japan's surrender and the U.S.'s ethical justification for them has been the subject of scholarly and popular debate for decades. The question of whether nations should have nuclear weapons, or test them, has been continually and nearly universally controversial.\n\nThe public became concerned about nuclear weapons testing from about 1954, following extensive nuclear testing in the Pacific. In 1961, at the height of the Cold War, about 50,000 women brought together by Women Strike for Peace marched in 60 cities in the United States to demonstrate against nuclear weapons. In 1963, many countries ratified the Partial Test Ban Treaty which prohibited atmospheric nuclear testing.\n\nSome local opposition to nuclear power emerged in the early 1960s, and in the late 1960s some members of the scientific community began to express their concerns. In the early 1970s, there were large protests about a proposed nuclear power plant in Wyhl, Germany. The project was cancelled in 1975 and anti-nuclear success at Wyhl inspired opposition to nuclear power in other parts of Europe and North America. Nuclear power became an issue of major public protest in the 1970s.\n\nBetween 1949 and 1989, over 4,000 uranium mines in the Four Corner region of the American Southwest produced more than 225,000,000 tons of uranium ore. This activity affected a large number of Native American nations, including the Laguna, Navajo, Zuni, Southern Ute, Ute Mountain, Hopi, Acoma and other Pueblo cultures. Many of these peoples worked in the mines, mills and processing plants in New Mexico, Arizona, Utah and Colorado. These workers were not only poorly paid, they were seldom informed of dangers nor were they given appropriate protective gear. The government, mine owners, scientific, and health communities were all well aware of the hazards of working with radioactive materials at this time. Due to the Cold War demand for increasingly destructive and powerful nuclear weapons, these laborers were both exposed to and brought home large amounts of radiation in the form of dust on their clothing and skin. Epidemiologic studies of the families of these workers have shown increased incidents of radiation-induced cancers, miscarriages, cleft palates and other birth defects. The extent of these genetic effects on indigenous populations and the extent of DNA damage remains to be resolved. Uranium mining on the Navajo reservation continues to be a disputed issue as former Navajo mine workers and their families continue to suffer from health problems.\n\n\nOver 500 atmospheric nuclear weapons tests were conducted at various sites around the world from 1945 to 1980. Radioactive fallout from nuclear weapons testing was first drawn to public attention in 1954 when the Castle Bravo hydrogen bomb test at the Pacific Proving Grounds contaminated the crew and catch of the Japanese fishing boat \"Lucky Dragon\". One of the fishermen died in Japan seven months later, and the fear of contaminated tuna led to a temporary boycotting of the popular staple in Japan. The incident caused widespread concern around the world, especially regarding the effects of nuclear fallout and atmospheric nuclear testing, and \"provided a decisive impetus for the emergence of the anti-nuclear weapons movement in many countries\".\n\nAs public awareness and concern mounted over the possible health hazards associated with exposure to the nuclear fallout, various studies were done to assess the extent of the hazard. A Centers for Disease Control and Prevention/ National Cancer Institute study claims that fallout from atmospheric nuclear tests would lead to perhaps 11,000 excess deaths amongst people alive during atmospheric testing in the United States from all forms of cancer, including leukemia, from 1951 to well into the 21st century.\nAs of March 2009, the U.S. is the only nation that compensates nuclear test victims. Since the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990, more than $1.38 billion in compensation has been approved. The money is going to people who took part in the tests, notably at the Nevada Test Site, and to others exposed to the radiation.\n\nNuclear labor issues exist within the nuclear power industry and the nuclear weapons production sector that impact upon the lives and health of laborers, itinerant workers and their families. This subculture of frequently undocumented workers (e.g., Radium Girls, the Fukushima 50, Liquidators, and Nuclear Samurai) do the dirty, difficult, and potentially dangerous work shunned by regular employees. When they exceed their allowable radiation exposure limit at a specific facility, they often migrate to a different nuclear facility. The industry implicitly accepts this conduct as it can not operate without these practices.\n\nExistent labor laws protecting worker’s health rights are not properly enforced. Records are required to be kept, but frequently they are not. Some personnel were not properly trained resulting intheir own exposure to toxic amounts of radiation. At several facilities there are ongoing failures to perform required radiological screenings or to implement corrective actions.\n\nMany questions regarding these nuclear worker conditions go unanswered, and with the exception of a few whistleblowers, the vast majority of laborers - unseen, underpaid, overworked and exploited, have few incentives to share their stories. The median annual wage for hazardous radioactive materials removal workers, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics is $37,590 in the U.S - $18 per hour. A 15-country collaborative cohort study of cancer risks due to exposure to low-dose ionizing radiation, involving 407,391 nuclear industry workers showed significant increase in cancer mortality. The study evaluated 31 types of cancers, primary and secondary.\n\nNuclear power may be a potential target for terrorists, and also increases the chances of nuclear weapons proliferation. Circumventing these problems involves cutting back on civil liberties, such as freedom of speech and assembly. So, Brian Martin says that \"nuclear power is not a suitable power source for a free society\".\n\nThe Advisory Committee on Human Radiation Experiments (ACHRE) was formed on January 15, 1994 by President Bill Clinton. Hazel O\"Leary, the Secretary of Energy at the U.S. Department of Energy called for a policy of \"new openness\", initiating the release of over 1.6 million pages of classified documents. These records revealed that since the 1940s, the Atomic Energy Commission was conducting widespread testing on human beings without their consent. Children, pregnant women, as well as male prisoners were injected with or orally consumed radioactive materials.\n"}
{"id": "9345847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9345847", "title": "Quranic hermeneutics", "text": "Quranic hermeneutics\n\nQur'anic hermeneutics is the study of theories of the interpretation and understanding of the Qur'an, the sacred text of Islam. Since the early centuries of Islam, scholars have sought to mine the wealth of its meanings by developing a variety of different systems of hermeneutics.\n\nHermeneutics in Islam leans on a lengthy tradition of \"tafsir\", the exegesis of usually the Qur'an. Peter Heath posed in 1989 that \"the modern study of Islamic hermeneutics is in its infancy\"; in response, Jean Jacques Waardenburg proposed five questions and issues that a study of a possible hermeneutics of Islam would have to deal with:\n\nA specific issue discussed is the relationship between Islam and human rights. ʻAbd Allāh Aḥmad Naʻīm sees the problem as one of the transformation of interpretations of the Qur'an to a globalized world and the mutual social and political influences between that globalized world and the Muslim community. He differentiates between the 'traditionalists' who advocate \"strict conformity to Shari'a as an essential prerequisite for accepting the proposed change [toward a more anthropological view of Islam]\" and those who do bypass the question of that conformity. A hermeneutic approach to Islam and human rights, he claims, must acknowledge the idea of historical change.\n\nThe growing influence of women in the Muslim world and their increasing access to higher levels of education, combined with the Western interest in the position of women in the Muslim world has a profound influence on Islamic hermeneutics, which must deal with transnationalism and its effect on gender roles. 'New' schools of Islamic thinking (emblematized by such philosophers as Mohammed Arkoun) have challenged \"monodimensional hermeneutics.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3308139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3308139", "title": "Richard Gregg (social philosopher)", "text": "Richard Gregg (social philosopher)\n\nRichard Bartlett Gregg (1885–1974) was an American social philosopher said to be \"the first American to develop a substantial theory of nonviolent resistance\" and an influence on the thinking of Martin Luther King, Jr, \npacifist and socialist reformer Jessie Wallace Hughan. Gregg's ideas also influenced the Peace Pledge Union in 1930s Britain, although by 1937 most of the PPU had moved away from Gregg's ideas. \nAfter graduating from Harvard, Gregg sailed to India on January 1, 1925 to learn about Indian culture and to seek out Gandhi. His publications include \"Gandhiji's Satyagraha or non-violent resistance\", published in 1930, and \"The Power of Non-Violence\", from 1934. His revision, \"The Power of Non-Violence\" (1960) included a foreword by King. The book was republished in several other editions, including a Swedish translation in 1936 (as \"Den nya maktfaktorn: motstånd utan våld\"). Gregg's 1939 pamphlet \"Pacifist Program in time of war: threatened war, or fascism\" was a program detailing how American pacifists could use non-violence to oppose war and fascism in\nthe United States. In the 1940s Gregg became interested in ecology and organic farming, and spent several years living on a farm owned by Scott and Helen Nearing.\n\"A Preparation for Science\" ( Gujarat Vidyapith,1928 )- This book was mainly intended for preparing primary school teachers in rural India who can teach science to the rural children using locally available materials. He had envisioned that science education is an absolute must for the Indian children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3506043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3506043", "title": "Robert S. Hartman", "text": "Robert S. Hartman\n\nRobert Schirokauer Hartman (January 27, 1910 – September 20, 1973) was a logician and philosopher. His primary field of study was scientific axiology (the science of value) and he is known as its original theorist. His axiology is the basis of the Hartman Value Inventory (also known as the \"Hartman Value Profile (HVP)\". which is used in psychology to measure the character of an individual.\n\nRobert S. Hartman was born in Berlin, Germany on January 27, 1910. He studied at the German College of Political Science, and also at the University of Paris, the London School of Economics, and at the University of Berlin, from which he received an LL.B. degree.\n\nHe started working as instructor in administrative law and the philosophy of law at the University of Berlin, and he also served as Assistant Judge of the District court, Berlin-Charlottenburg. In 1932 he left Germany for Britain and \"started working for Walt Disney Productions as a copyright representative in Britain and later opened offices for Disney in Denmark, Norway, Finland and Sweden where he met and married his wife. The Hartmans moved to Mexico City where he represented Disney Productions in Central America and the Antilles.\"\n\nIn 1941 he migrated to the United States, became a citizen. He did his doctoral work in philosophy at Northwestern University in 1946. He taught at the University of Berlin and at Lake Forest Academy near Chicago. He was a professor of philosophy at the College of Wooster (1945 - 1948) and at Ohio State University (1948 -1956) and was a visiting professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (1955–6) and at Yale University in 1966. Hartman was a Research Fellow and Exchange Professor at the National University of Mexico in 1956–7, and from 1957 until his death he was a research professor of philosophy there. From 1968 until his death Hartman also held an appointment as professor of philosophy at the University of Tennessee. In the late 1950s he was among the first members of the Society for General Systems Research.\n\nFrom 1950-1957 he was Chairman of the Commission on Peace, International Council of Community Churches. He served as Executive Director of the Council of Profit-Sharing Industries, and wrote its first manual. He was a founder of the Deutsche Institute fur Social-Wirtschaftliche Betriebsgestaltung (industrial organization). He was a founding sponsor of the American Association for Humanistic Psychology. He has been credited with being the founding spirit behind the prevailing business-retirement plan in the United States today, the 401K Plan. He was the first President of the American Society for Value Inquiry, founded in 1971 by James Wilbur.\n\nHe served as consultant for the practical application of Value Theory with AT&T, General Foods, General Electric, and IBM.\n\nHartman was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1973.\n\nHartman died in Cuernavaca, Mexico on September 20, 1973. He had one child, a son, Jan. Jan Hartman was an Emmy-winning screenwriter, author, and playwright. He died of heart failure in October 2006. For the previous 10 years, Jan lived in Hertfordshire, England, with his wife, Stacey McNutt, a book editor.\n\nAn Institute has been set up in honor of Robert S. Hartman to explore the implications of his work in formal axiology and value science.\n\nHe was the subject of doctoral dissertations, including that of a former Chairman of the Philosophy Department at the University of Tennessee, Professor John Davis, as well as of Marvin Charles Katz, whose thesis was later published as a book entitled \"Trends Towards Synthesis\".\n\nHe has published papers on the phenomenology of group measurement, on universal constants in Physics (in his role as a philosopher of science), on the logic of description and valuation, on the contribution of St. Anselm, and on the Concept of Self in Søren Kierkegaard.\n\nThe reference book \"Who Knows What\" listed Hartman as one of the two living authorities on value theory (the other was Charles W. Morris (1903-1979)). Among Hartman's publications are the report on Value Theory for the Institut International de Philosophis 1949-1955, published by UNESCO; his magnum opus \"The Structure of Value\" (1967 Southern Illinois University Press); and at the time of his death in 1973 he was working on a manuscript entitled \"The Measurement of Value\".\n\nAnother critical work is his Knowledge of Good (Robert S. HARTMAN, Arthur ELLIS and Rem B. EDWARDS, 2002 Rodopi Press) a thorough study of all the philosophical discussions of goodness and what gaps exist in a complete philosophy of value. Hartman shows how his Formal Value Theory fills these gaps.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7158411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7158411", "title": "Seventh Letter", "text": "Seventh Letter\n\nThe Seventh Letter of Plato is an epistle that tradition has ascribed to Plato. It is by far the longest of the epistles of Plato and gives an autobiographical account of his activities in Sicily as part of the intrigues between Dion and Dionysius of Syracuse for the tyranny of Syracuse. It also contains an extended philosophical interlude concerning the possibility of writing true philosophical works and the theory of forms. Assuming that the letter is authentic, it was written after Dion was assassinated by Calippus in 353 BC and before the latter was in turn overthrown a year later.\n\nOf all the letters attributed to Plato, the \"Seventh Letter\" is widely considered the only one that might be authentic. R. Ledger defends its authenticity on the basis of computer analysis. Anthony Kenny is likewise inclined to accept it as genuine. The main objections to its authenticity involve its statement that there are forms or ideas of artificial things, whereas Aristotle attributes to Plato the idea that there are forms or ideas only of natural things, as well as the fact that the letter's purported historical setting seems unlikely: the letter implies that Dion's followers wrote to Plato asking him for practical political advice while at the same time insinuating that he had not been loyal to Dion, that Calippus permitted the letter to get to Plato, and that Plato replied by recounting in detail recent history to people who were immediately involved in those events and included in his advice a long digression on the theory of forms. These problems lead R. G. Bury to conclude that the letter was an open letter intended to defend Plato in the eyes of his fellow Athenians rather than to be sent to Dion's followers in Sicily; there probably never was any letter from them to Plato, he says.\n\nNevertheless, the \"Seventh Letter\" has recently been argued to be spurious by prominent scholars such as Malcolm Schofield, Myles Burnyeat, George Boas, Terence Irwin, and Julia Annas. According to Annas, the \"Seventh Letter\" is \"such an unconvincing production that its acceptance by many scholars is best seen as indicating the strength of their desire to find, behind the detachment of the dialogues, something, no matter what, to which Plato is straightforwardly committed.\"\n\nThe \"Seventh Letter\" touches upon a variety of themes, not always in an organized fashion. This article follows Bury in dividing its summary into the following sections.\n\nPlato opens by assuring Dion's followers that he shares Dion's political goals. He then says how he came to hold his opinions concerning politics by recounting his early life and political disillusionment following the Thirty Tyrants and the trial of Socrates.\n\nPlato tells of his first visit to Syracuse, where he befriended Dion during the reign of Dionysius the Elder. Dionysius the Elder died after Plato had returned home and Dion urged him to educate the younger Dionysius, who had ascended to the tyranny, with the aim of transforming him into a philosopher king.\n\nPlato explains that he agreed to Dion's proposal lest he seem to be a bad friend and to care nothing for philosophy's reputation, but the visit turned out to be a failure. Dion fell from Dionysius' good graces due to courtiers' slanders; Plato himself fell under suspicion of seeking to overthrow Dionysius. He continued to attempt to give the tyrant good counsel, however.\n\nPlato leaves off the historical narrative, but before giving his advice to Dion's friends and followers he notes that one should not attempt to advise those who will not heed good advice. One should not tell those who do not wish to be virtuous how best to satisfy their vicious desires, nor should one compel those who are not willing to listen.\n\nPlato advises Dion's followers in the same way that he and Dion had advised Dionysius the Younger. They had attempted to remind him of his father's unhappiness, counseling him to lead a moderate personal life and make friends with good men. This advice would have required him to renounce the company of those courtiers who benefited from his immoderation, so these conspired to slander Dion such that he was exiled again. Dion returned to admonish Dionysius \"by deed\" (333b; i.e., at the head of an army), but the Syracuseans themselves believed slanders that Dion was attempting to set himself up as a tyrant and supported Dion's murder. Because those who assassinated Dion were Athenians, Plato defends Athens, saying that Dion's best friend (himself) was also Athenian.\n\nPlato admonishes the addressees with the same advice that he and Dion had given Dionysius the Younger, viz. to abolish the despotism in Sicily and establish a constitutional government in each city with just laws. He claims that Dionysius lives an ignoble life because he did not heed this advice, while Dion died a noble death because he followed it. Dion would have ruled by law. Plato counsels his followers to avoid partisan strife, live moderately, and seek no reprisals in their hour of victory. Since the ideal political order of rule by a philosopher king is now impossible, he says, let the second-best of rule by law come about.\n\nPlato resumes his historical narrative where he had left off. War compelled Plato to leave Sicily during his second visit there. Before permitting him to leave, however, Dionysius had extracted a promise that he would return when hostilities ceased and Plato had agreed on the condition that Dion be recalled from exile. Dion was not recalled and Plato was reluctant to return, but was persuaded by Dion and by Archytas of Tarentum of the prudence of doing so, especially as Dionysius himself was rumored to be interested in philosophy again.\n\nUpon his arrival, Plato decided to test whether Dionysius' attachment to philosophy was genuine by informing him of the various unexciting preparatory studies he would need to undertake.\n\nDionysius claimed to already be an expert on philosophy and therefore turned out to be a bad pupil, Plato claims. Plato claims that Dionysius was an impostor, for he had written a metaphysical treatise that he claimed was superior to Plato's lectures. Plato can claim that Dionysius was an impostor because the truth about metaphysics cannot be expressed in writing and all those who know the truth know this; hence, if Dionysius thought he had expressed the truth about metaphysics in writing, he did not know the truth.\n\nPlato's explanation of why the deepest truths cannot be expressed in written form is famously abstruse. Before one attains the \"thing which is cognizable and true\" (\"gnōston te kai alēthes\"), one must have apprehended the \"name,\" \"account\" (\"logos\"), \"image,\" and \"knowledge\" (\"epistēmē\"). Name and account are approached through verbal description, while sense perception perceives the image. One attains knowledge only from the combination of verbal description and sense perception, and one must have knowledge before one can attain the object of knowledge (which Plato calls simply \"the Fifth,\" name, account, image, and knowledge being \"the Four\"). The Fifth, moreover, differs from what is sensible and verbal expressions of it. Name and account provide the \"quality\" of a thing (\"to poion\"), but not its \"essence\" or \"being\" (\"to on\"). They are, moreover, akin to sense perceptions in that they are ever shifting and relative, not fixed. As a result, the student who attempts to understand the Fifth through name, account, image, and knowledge is confused; he seeks the essence, but always finds the quality intruding. Only certain kinds of student can scrutinize the Four, and even then the vision of the Fifth comes by a sudden flash.\n\nSince this is how philosophy is conducted, no serious person would ever attempt to teach serious philosophic doctrines in a book or to the public at large. Dionysius' motivation for having written a philosophic text must have been a desire for glory. Indeed, he had received only one lecture on metaphysics from Plato.\n\nDionysius abused Plato in several ways during his third visit to Syracuse. He had promised to send Dion the revenues of his property in Sicily, but reneged. Plato in response threatened to leave and was assuaged only when Dionysius proposed a compromise; Plato agreed to remain only until Dion had replied. Before that could happen, however, Dionysius sold Dion's property on the cheap, appointed himself the warden of half of the proceeds on behalf of Dion's son, and would let Plato take only the other half to Dion in exile. Moreover, the sailing season had already ended and so Plato was forced to remain in Syracuse anyway.\n\nIn the meantime, Dionysius' attempts to cut the pay of the mercenaries who supported his rule provoked a mutiny that was blamed on Heracleides, the leader of the democratic party in Syracuse. Theodotes persuaded Dionysius in Plato's presence to permit Heracleides to leave the city in peace, but Dionysius used this merely to flush him out of hiding. When Dionysius claimed never to have made any promise to let him go, Plato spoke up and affirmed that he had.\n\nAs a result, Dionysius found a pretext for expelling Plato from the palace (where he had been housed) and lodging him in the soldiers' quarters. He then claimed that Theodotes' visits to him there were a sign that he was conspiring with his enemies. Plato pleaded with Archytas, who persuaded Tarentum to send a vessel for him.\n\nAfter leaving Sicily for the third and final time, Plato traveled to Olympia, where he met Dion preparing for war. Dion asked Plato for his support, but he refused, claiming that he had been a guest in Dionysius' house and that he did not relish the problems that would be caused by a civil war. Dion invaded anyway and was successful. Plato eulogizes Dion, claiming that he sought power only for the common good. Dion fell, he says, because he underestimated the viciousness of the men he was opposing.\n\nPlato explains why he went into such detail about his third visit, despite having already given his advice as to how Dion's followers should proceed. He desired, he says, to defend himself against slanders that had circulated about his motives and actions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55181032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55181032", "title": "Shozan Jack Haubner", "text": "Shozan Jack Haubner\n\nShozan Jack Haubner is the pen name of a Zen monk who has written two books and a number of essays for \"The Sun\", \"\", \"\", \"Lion's Roar\" and the \"New York Times\", and the Best Buddhist Writing series. He won the Pushcart Prize in 2012.\n\nShozan was born and raised in a Catholic family. He studied philosophy and worked as a screenwriter, poet and a stand-up comedian in Los Angeles, United States before becoming a Buddhist Zen priest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22446934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22446934", "title": "Sungyang Academy", "text": "Sungyang Academy\n\nSungyang Hall is a fourteenth-century Confucian academy located on the side of Mt. Janam in Kaesong, North Korea. The hall was constructed in the late fourteenth century for the home of the famously loyal statesman and Confucian scholar Jong Mong-ju, whose 1392 assassination by the agents of the later Taejo of Joseon marked the end of the Koryo dynasty. In 1573, the building was transformed into a Confucian academy.\n\nThe building is listed as National Treasures #128 in North Korea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25785410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25785410", "title": "Taha Abdurrahman", "text": "Taha Abdurrahman\n\nTaha Abderrahmane, or Abdurrahman in a more transliterated form （born 1944） is a Moroccan philosopher, and one of the leading philosophers and thinkers in the Arab-Islamic world. His work centers on logic, philosophy of language and philosophy of morality. He believes in multiple modernities and seeks to establish an ethical and humanitarian modernity based on the values and principles of Islam and the Arab tradition.\n\nHe was born in 1944 and raised in El Jadida (province of El Jadida) there he went to basic school, after that he moved to Casablanca where he continued his high school, and then he joined the Mohammed V University (Rabat, Morocco) where he obtained his licentiate in philosophy. He completed his studies at the university of Sorbonne where he received his second licentiate and obtained his \"doctoral third level\" in the year of 1972 on the subject: \"Language and philosophy: a study of the linguistic structures of ontology\", and in 1985 he earned his Ph.D in the philosophy on the subject \"study of argumentation and its methods\" (in French: \"Essai sur les logiques des raisonnements argumentatifs et naturels\", literally \"Essay on the logic of reasoning argumentatives and naturals\").\n\nIn addition to Arabic, French and English, he also speaks German, Latin and Ancient greek - in order to read philosophy authors in their original language.\n\nAbdurrahman served as a Professor of Philosophy of language and logic at Mohammed V University from 1970 until his retirement in 2005. He is a member of the 'International Society for the Study of Argumentation' which he represents in Morocco, representative of 'Gesellschaft für Interkulturelle Philosophie / Society of Intercultural Philosophy', and director of 'Wisdom Circle for Thinkers and Researchers'.\n\nHe was awarded the Prize of Morocco twice, and in 2006 the ISESCO Prize in Islamic thought and philosophy.\n\nHis philosophical practice is characterized by a combination of \"logical analysis\" and \"linguistic derivation\" proceeding a mystical experience, in a framework to provide the concepts related to the Islamic heritage and based on the most important achievements of modern Western thought on the level of \"theories of speech\" and \"argumentative logic\" and \" philosophy of ethics, which makes his philosophizing predominantly appearing in a \"moral\" and \"deliberative\" style.\n\n\nArabic Wikipedia\n\nWisdom Forum for Thinkers and Researchers\n\nMohammed Hashas, \"Islamic Philosophy III: The Question of Ethics: Taha Abderrahmane's Praxeology and Trusteeship Paradigm,\" Resetdoc, 23 Sept. 2014, http://www.resetdoc.org/story/00000022452 \n\nMohammed Hashas, “Taha Abderrahmane’s Trusteeship Paradigm: Spiritual Modernity and the Islamic Contribution to the Formation of a Renewed Universal Civilization of Ethos,” Oriente Moderno 95 (2015), pp. 67-105.\n\nMohammed Hashas, L’etica islamica nel paradigma di responsabilità di Taha Abderrahmane, traduzione a cura di Sabrina Lei (Roma: Tawasul Europe, Centro per la ricerca ed il dialogo, 2018), 53 p. \n\n"}
{"id": "51354078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51354078", "title": "Tamara Horowitz", "text": "Tamara Horowitz\n\nTamara Horowitz (November 7, 1950 – January 30, 2000) was an American philosopher who worked on epistemology, feminist philosophy and the philosophy of science. She spent much of her career at the University of Pittsburgh, and was appointed chair of the philosophy department there in September 1999, but died a few months later.\n\nHorowitz was born on November 7, 1950, in Brooklyn, New York, the daughter of a poet/collagist mother and a director/writer father. At age 15, and despite activism against the Vietnam War, she was offered a scholarship to study mathematics at the University of Chicago. She studied for a BA at the institution, where she was taught by Elizabeth Anscombe, graduating in 1971. She went on to study for a doctorate in philosophy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), becoming the first woman to receive a philosophy doctorate from the institution when she graduated in 1976, as well as the first woman to receive a doctorate from MIT's Department of Linguistics and Philosophy. During her mid-twenties, she spent a period of two years not looking in mirrors; though initially this was done as part of a questioning of attachment to appearance, it led her to believe that sense of self can be distorted through a focus on physical appearance.\n\nAfter her doctorate, Horowitz went to the University of Pittsburgh (Pitt) from 1977–8 as an Andrew Mellon postdoctoral fellow, before teaching variously at Vassar College (instructor/assistant professor of philosophy 1974–78), New York University (assistant professor of philosophy, 1978–83) and Purchase State College, State University of New York (visiting assistant professor of philosophy, 1983-4). She returned to Pittsburgh in 1985 as a visiting assistant professor; that same year, she published \"A Priori Truth\" in \"The Journal of Philosophy\", an article which was included in volume VIII of the \"Philosopher's Annual\" as one of the year's best philosophy papers. She became an assistant professor on the faculty at Pitt the following year. She coedited (with Gerald J. Massey) a collection of 21 papers arising from a conference at Pitt on the philosophy of science; this was published with Rowman & Littlefield as \"Thought Experiments in Science and Philosophy\" in 1991. She was promoted to associate professor in philosophy and associate professor in women's studies in 1993, as well as being named the associate director of the university's Center for the Philosophy of Science.\n\nSome years later, Horowitz was appointed chair of the Pitt philosophy department, and took up the role on September 1, 1999. However, she was diagnosed with a brain tumor later that month. She died January 30, 2000, at her home in Shadyside, Pittsburgh. She was married to the philosopher Joseph Camp, and had two stepsons, John and David Camp.\n\nA lecture in memory of Horowitz by Alexander Nehamas—\"The place of beauty and the role of value in the world of art\"—was published in \"Critical Quarterly\" in 2000. Colin MacCabe described Horowitz in an editorial for the issue as someone who\n\nhad no time whatsoever for the pompous or the pretentious; her concern was always with argument and debate, with the elaboration of human knowledge. ... [She was] a logician of the first rank who was also committed to a project of social emancipation.\n\nHe explained how Horowitz situated her work in the tradition of logical positivism, and intended to return to work on the socialist legacy of the Vienna Circle once her work on belief paradoxes, upon which she had focucsed later in her life, was complete. A book of Horowitz's work, \"The Epistemology of A Priori Knowledge\", was published in 2006. It was edited by Joseph Camp.\n\nMuch of Horowitz's work was concerned with either the epistemology of \"a priori\" knowledge or with feminist philosophy. Her works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "11567388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11567388", "title": "The Anti-Oedipus Papers", "text": "The Anti-Oedipus Papers\n\nThe Anti-Œdipus Papers is a collection of journal entries and notes written between 1969 and 1973 by the French philosopher and psychotherapist Félix Guattari. These notes, addressed to Gilles Deleuze by Guattari in preparation for \"Anti-Oedipus\" (1972), serve to substantiate their claims, finally bringing out the factory behind the theatre. They reveal Guattari as an inventive, highly analytical, mathematically-minded “conceptor,” arguably one of the most prolific and enigmatic figures in philosophy and sociopolitical theory today. Though as a whole, the papers serve to expand upon, and propose their own, psychoanalytic theory, they are supplemented by journal entries explaining the relationships between Guattari and many of his companions including Deleuze, Jacques Lacan, and Jean Oury.\n"}
{"id": "2271781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2271781", "title": "The End of Ideology", "text": "The End of Ideology\n\nThe End of Ideology: On the Exhaustion of Political Ideas in the Fifties is a collection of essays published in 1960 by Daniel Bell, who described himself as a \"socialist in economics, a liberal in politics, and a conservative in culture\". He suggests that the older, grand-humanistic ideologies derived from the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries had been exhausted, and that new, more parochial ideologies would soon arise. He argues that political ideology has become irrelevant among \"sensible\" people, and that the polity of the future would be driven by piecemeal technological adjustments of the extant system.\n\nThere is a 1930s literature derived from debates about the continued relevance of the Marxist scheme of class-generated ideologies, even in the less reductionist version set forth in most of Karl Mannheim's \"Ideology and Utopia,\" although his essay on \"Utopia\" does envision a loss of both utopian and ideological vision. Fascism rather than communism originally posed the question, insofar as the simplification of Fascism as \"ideology\" of the capitalist class lost credibility. One current of thought took up the theme of \"mass society\" and contended that the modes of control and resistance both had little to do with the ideology concept. (Emil Lederer, \"The State of Mass Society\" Although much of this was conjoined with conservative arguments about the \"revolt of the masses,\" there was also a current that looked to pragmatic problem solving where Fascism (and increasingly Communism) could be resisted or contained. Mannheim's \"planning\" writings ambiguously fostered this trend. Daniel Bell belonged to the next generation, when ideas about the institutionalisation of intelligence in ordinary democratic political processes became more sophisticated, as in the work of \"pluralist\" political theorists like David Truman, Robert Dahl and Daniel Bell. Technocratic notions at home on the Right played little part.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30006567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30006567", "title": "The Silent World of Doctor and Patient", "text": "The Silent World of Doctor and Patient\n\nThe Silent World of Doctor and Patient is an influential book on medical ethics written by Jay Katz and published by The Free Press in 1984.\n"}
{"id": "28460239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28460239", "title": "Tim Lewens", "text": "Tim Lewens\n\nTim Lewens (born 29 June 1974) is a professor in the history and philosophy of biology, medicine, and bioethics at the Department of History and Philosophy of Science at the University of Cambridge. Lewens is a Fellow of Clare College, where he serves as Director of Studies in Philosophy and he is a member of the academic staff and lecturer in the Department of History and Philosophy of Science (HPS).\n\nLewens completed his PhD thesis at the Department of HPS, Cambridge University in 2001. He became a lecturer in History and Philosophy of Science at Cambridge soon after completing his doctoral thesis. He now serves as a governor at Exeter School where he was formerly a pupil. He was member of the Nuffield Council on Bioethics from 2009 to 2015 and a member of the Council’s Working Party on \"human bodies in medicine and research\" (report published autumn 2011).\n\nLewens has written and lectured extensively on evolution and his book on this subject, \"Organisms and Artifacts: Design in Nature and Elsewhere\" (2004) received wide critical acclaim, as did his 2007 monograph on Charles Darwin.\n\nIn 2008, Lewens was one of eleven recipients of the University of Cambridge's Pilkington Prize for the quality of his teaching.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5545123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5545123", "title": "Trikona", "text": "Trikona\n\nTrikona is a Sanskrit word which signifies a triangle and is one of the widely used mythical geometric symbol. It is used to assist in meditation, and in different yantras. Different positions of trikona (triangle) are believed to impart different types of properties and attributes to the symbol. Such properties and attributes include the following:\n\nIt is also used to describe astrological houses located in a triangular relationship to one another in Vedic astrology: the first house, the fifth house and ninth house, which are all 120 degrees from one another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21391751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21391751", "title": "Turing test", "text": "Turing test\n\nThe Turing test, developed by Alan Turing in 1950, is a test of a machine's ability to exhibit intelligent behavior equivalent to, or indistinguishable from, that of a human. Turing proposed that a human evaluator would judge natural language conversations between a human and a machine designed to generate human-like responses. The evaluator would be aware that one of the two partners in conversation is a machine, and all participants would be separated from one another. The conversation would be limited to a text-only channel such as a computer keyboard and screen so the result would not depend on the machine's ability to render words as speech. If the evaluator cannot reliably tell the machine from the human, the machine is said to have passed the test. The test results do not depend on the machine's ability to give correct answers to questions, only how closely its answers resemble those a human would give.\n\nThe test was introduced by Turing in his 1950 paper, \"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\", while working at the University of Manchester (Turing, 1950; p. 460). It opens with the words: \"I propose to consider the question, 'Can machines think? Because \"thinking\" is difficult to define, Turing chooses to \"replace the question by another, which is closely related to it and is expressed in relatively unambiguous words.\" Turing's new question is: \"Are there imaginable digital computers which would do well in the \"imitation game\"?\" This question, Turing believed, is one that can actually be answered. In the remainder of the paper, he argued against all the major objections to the proposition that \"machines can think\".\n\nSince Turing first introduced his test, it has proven to be both highly influential and widely criticised, and it has become an important concept in the philosophy of artificial intelligence.\n\nThe question of whether it is possible for machines to think has a long history, which is firmly entrenched in the distinction between dualist and materialist views of the mind. René Descartes prefigures aspects of the Turing test in his 1637 Discourse on the Method when he writes: \nHere Descartes notes that automata are capable of responding to human interactions but argues that such automata cannot respond appropriately to things said in their presence in the way that any human can. Descartes therefore prefigures the Turing test by defining the insufficiency of appropriate linguistic response as that which separates the human from the automaton. Descartes fails to consider the possibility that future automata might be able to overcome such insufficiency, and so does not propose the Turing test as such, even if he prefigures its conceptual framework and criterion.\n\nDenis Diderot formulates in his \"Pensées philosophiques\" a Turing-test criterion:\n\n\"If they find a parrot who could answer to everything, I would claim it to be an intelligent being without hesitation.\"\n\nThis does not mean he agrees with this, but that it was already a common argument of materialists at that time.\n\nAccording to dualism, the mind is non-physical (or, at the very least, has non-physical properties) and, therefore, cannot be explained in purely physical terms. According to materialism, the mind can be explained physically, which leaves open the possibility of minds that are produced artificially.\n\nIn 1936, philosopher Alfred Ayer considered the standard philosophical question of other minds: how do we know that other people have the same conscious experiences that we do? In his book, \"Language, Truth and Logic\", Ayer suggested a protocol to distinguish between a conscious man and an unconscious machine: \"The only ground I can have for asserting that an object which appears to be conscious is not really a conscious being, but only a dummy or a machine, is that it fails to satisfy one of the empirical tests by which the presence or absence of consciousness is determined.\" (This suggestion is very similar to the Turing test, but is concerned with consciousness rather than intelligence. Moreover, it is not certain that Ayer's popular philosophical classic was familiar to Turing.) In other words, a thing is not conscious if it fails the consciousness test.\n\nResearchers in the United Kingdom had been exploring \"machine intelligence\" for up to ten years prior to the founding of the field of artificial intelligence (AI) research in 1956. It was a common topic among the members of the Ratio Club, who were an informal group of British cybernetics and electronics researchers that included Alan Turing, after whom the test is named.\n\nTuring, in particular, had been tackling the notion of machine intelligence since at least 1941 and one of the earliest-known mentions of \"computer intelligence\" was made by him in 1947. In Turing's report, \"Intelligent Machinery\", he investigated \"the question of whether or not it is possible for machinery to show intelligent behaviour\" and, as part of that investigation, proposed what may be considered the forerunner to his later tests:\nIt is not difficult to devise a paper machine which will play a not very bad game of chess. Now get three men as subjects for the experiment. A, B and C. A and C are to be rather poor chess players, B is the operator who works the paper machine. ... Two rooms are used with some arrangement for communicating moves, and a game is played between C and either A or the paper machine. C may find it quite difficult to tell which he is playing.\n\n\"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\" (1950) was the first published paper by Turing to focus exclusively on machine intelligence. Turing begins the 1950 paper with the claim, \"I propose to consider the question 'Can machines think? As he highlights, the traditional approach to such a question is to start with definitions, defining both the terms \"machine\" and \"intelligence\". Turing chooses not to do so; instead he replaces the question with a new one, \"which is closely related to it and is expressed in relatively unambiguous words.\" In essence he proposes to change the question from \"Can machines think?\" to \"Can machines do what we (as thinking entities) can do?\" The advantage of the new question, Turing argues, is that it draws \"a fairly sharp line between the physical and intellectual capacities of a man.\"\n\nTo demonstrate this approach Turing proposes a test inspired by a party game, known as the \"imitation game\", in which a man and a woman go into separate rooms and guests try to tell them apart by writing a series of questions and reading the typewritten answers sent back. In this game both the man and the woman aim to convince the guests that they are the other. (Huma Shah argues that this two-human version of the game was presented by Turing only to introduce the reader to the machine-human question-answer test.) Turing described his new version of the game as follows:\n\nWe now ask the question, \"What will happen when a machine takes the part of A in this game?\" Will the interrogator decide wrongly as often when the game is played like this as he does when the game is played between a man and a woman? These questions replace our original, \"Can machines think?\"\n\nLater in the paper Turing suggests an \"equivalent\" alternative formulation involving a judge conversing only with a computer and a man. While neither of these formulations precisely matches the version of the Turing test that is more generally known today, he proposed a third in 1952. In this version, which Turing discussed in a BBC radio broadcast, a jury asks questions of a computer and the role of the computer is to make a significant proportion of the jury believe that it is really a man.\n\nTuring's paper considered nine putative objections, which include all the major arguments against artificial intelligence that have been raised in the years since the paper was published (see \"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\").\n\nIn 1966, Joseph Weizenbaum created a program which appeared to pass the Turing test. The program, known as ELIZA, worked by examining a user's typed comments for keywords. If a keyword is found, a rule that transforms the user's comments is applied, and the resulting sentence is returned. If a keyword is not found, ELIZA responds either with a generic riposte or by repeating one of the earlier comments. In addition, Weizenbaum developed ELIZA to replicate the behaviour of a Rogerian psychotherapist, allowing ELIZA to be \"free to assume the pose of knowing almost nothing of the real world.\" With these techniques, Weizenbaum's program was able to fool some people into believing that they were talking to a real person, with some subjects being \"very hard to convince that ELIZA [...] is \"not\" human.\" Thus, ELIZA is claimed by some to be one of the programs (perhaps the first) able to pass the Turing test, even though this view is highly contentious (see below).\n\nKenneth Colby created PARRY in 1972, a program described as \"ELIZA with attitude\". It attempted to model the behaviour of a paranoid schizophrenic, using a similar (if more advanced) approach to that employed by Weizenbaum. To validate the work, PARRY was tested in the early 1970s using a variation of the Turing test. A group of experienced psychiatrists analysed a combination of real patients and computers running PARRY through teleprinters. Another group of 33 psychiatrists were shown transcripts of the conversations. The two groups were then asked to identify which of the \"patients\" were human and which were computer programs. The psychiatrists were able to make the correct identification only 48 percent of the time – a figure consistent with random guessing.\n\nIn the 21st century, versions of these programs (now known as \"chatterbots\") continue to fool people. \"CyberLover\", a malware program, preys on Internet users by convincing them to \"reveal information about their identities or to lead them to visit a web site that will deliver malicious content to their computers\". The program has emerged as a \"Valentine-risk\" flirting with people \"seeking relationships online in order to collect their personal data\".\n\nJohn Searle's 1980 paper \"Minds, Brains, and Programs\" proposed the \"Chinese room\" thought experiment and argued that the Turing test could not be used to determine if a machine can think. Searle noted that software (such as ELIZA) could pass the Turing test simply by manipulating symbols of which they had no understanding. Without understanding, they could not be described as \"thinking\" in the same sense people do. Therefore, Searle concludes, the Turing test cannot prove that a machine can think. Much like the Turing test itself, Searle's argument has been both widely criticised and highly endorsed.\n\nArguments such as Searle's and others working on the philosophy of mind sparked off a more intense debate about the nature of intelligence, the possibility of intelligent machines and the value of the Turing test that continued through the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe Loebner Prize provides an annual platform for practical Turing tests with the first competition held in November 1991. It is underwritten by Hugh Loebner. The Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies in Massachusetts, United States, organised the prizes up to and including the 2003 contest. As Loebner described it, one reason the competition was created is to advance the state of AI research, at least in part, because no one had taken steps to implement the Turing test despite 40 years of discussing it.\n\nThe first Loebner Prize competition in 1991 led to a renewed discussion of the viability of the Turing test and the value of pursuing it, in both the popular press and academia. The first contest was won by a mindless program with no identifiable intelligence that managed to fool naïve interrogators into making the wrong identification. This highlighted several of the shortcomings of the Turing test (discussed below): The winner won, at least in part, because it was able to \"imitate human typing errors\"; the unsophisticated interrogators were easily fooled; and some researchers in AI have been led to feel that the test is merely a distraction from more fruitful research.\n\nThe silver (text only) and gold (audio and visual) prizes have never been won. However, the competition has awarded the bronze medal every year for the computer system that, in the judges' opinions, demonstrates the \"most human\" conversational behaviour among that year's entries. Artificial Linguistic Internet Computer Entity (A.L.I.C.E.) has won the bronze award on three occasions in recent times (2000, 2001, 2004). Learning AI Jabberwacky won in 2005 and 2006.\n\nThe Loebner Prize tests conversational intelligence; winners are typically chatterbot programs, or Artificial Conversational Entities (ACE)s. Early Loebner Prize rules restricted conversations: Each entry and hidden-human conversed on a single topic, thus the interrogators were restricted to one line of questioning per entity interaction. The restricted conversation rule was lifted for the 1995 Loebner Prize. Interaction duration between judge and entity has varied in Loebner Prizes. In Loebner 2003, at the University of Surrey, each interrogator was allowed five minutes to interact with an entity, machine or hidden-human. Between 2004 and 2007, the interaction time allowed in Loebner Prizes was more than twenty minutes.\n\nSaul Traiger argues that there are at least three primary versions of the Turing test, two of which are offered in \"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\" and one that he describes as the \"Standard Interpretation\". While there is some debate regarding whether the \"Standard Interpretation\" is that described by Turing or, instead, based on a misreading of his paper, these three versions are not regarded as equivalent, and their strengths and weaknesses are distinct.\n\nHuma Shah points out that Turing himself was concerned with whether a machine could think and was providing a simple method to examine this: through human-machine question-answer sessions. Shah argues there is one imitation game which Turing described could be practicalised in two different ways: a) one-to-one interrogator-machine test, and b) simultaneous comparison of a machine with a human, both questioned in parallel by an interrogator. Since the Turing test is a test of indistinguishability in performance capacity, the verbal version generalises naturally to all of human performance capacity, verbal as well as nonverbal (robotic).\n\nTuring's original article describes a simple party game involving three players. Player A is a man, player B is a woman and player C (who plays the role of the interrogator) is of either sex. In the imitation game, player C is unable to see either player A or player B, and can communicate with them only through written notes. By asking questions of player A and player B, player C tries to determine which of the two is the man and which is the woman. Player A's role is to trick the interrogator into making the wrong decision, while player B attempts to assist the interrogator in making the right one.\n\nTuring then asks:\n\nWhat will happen when a machine takes the part of A in this game? Will the interrogator decide wrongly as often when the game is played like this as he does when the game is played between a man and a woman? These questions replace our original, \"Can machines think?\"\n\nThe second version appeared later in Turing's 1950 paper. Similar to the original imitation game test, the role of player A is performed by a computer. However, the role of player B is performed by a man rather than a woman.\n\nLet us fix our attention on one particular digital computer \"C.\" Is it true that by modifying this computer to have an adequate storage, suitably increasing its speed of action, and providing it with an appropriate programme, \"C\" can be made to play satisfactorily the part of A in the imitation game, the part of B being taken by a man?\n\nIn this version, both player A (the computer) and player B are trying to trick the interrogator into making an incorrect decision.\n\nCommon understanding has it that the purpose of the Turing test is not specifically to determine whether a computer is able to fool an interrogator into believing that it is a human, but rather whether a computer could \"imitate\" a human. While there is some dispute whether this interpretation was intended by Turing, Sterrett believes that it was and thus conflates the second version with this one, while others, such as Traiger, do not – this has nevertheless led to what can be viewed as the \"standard interpretation.\" In this version, player A is a computer and player B a person of either sex. The role of the interrogator is not to determine which is male and which is female, but which is a computer and which is a human. The fundamental issue with the standard interpretation is that the interrogator cannot differentiate which responder is human, and which is machine. There are issues about duration, but the standard interpretation generally considers this limitation as something that should be reasonable.\n\nControversy has arisen over which of the alternative formulations of the test Turing intended. Sterrett argues that two distinct tests can be extracted from his 1950 paper and that, \"pace\" Turing's remark, they are not equivalent. The test that employs the party game and compares frequencies of success is referred to as the \"Original Imitation Game Test\", whereas the test consisting of a human judge conversing with a human and a machine is referred to as the \"Standard Turing Test\", noting that Sterrett equates this with the \"standard interpretation\" rather than the second version of the imitation game. Sterrett agrees that the standard Turing test (STT) has the problems that its critics cite but feels that, in contrast, the original imitation game test (OIG test) so defined is immune to many of them, due to a crucial difference: Unlike the STT, it does not make similarity to human performance the criterion, even though it employs human performance in setting a criterion for machine intelligence. A man can fail the OIG test, but it is argued that it is a virtue of a test of intelligence that failure indicates a lack of resourcefulness: The OIG test requires the resourcefulness associated with intelligence and not merely \"simulation of human conversational behaviour\". The general structure of the OIG test could even be used with non-verbal versions of imitation games.\n\nStill other writers have interpreted Turing as proposing that the imitation game itself is the test, without specifying how to take into account Turing's statement that the test that he proposed using the party version of the imitation game is based upon a criterion of comparative frequency of success in that imitation game, rather than a capacity to succeed at one round of the game.\n\nSaygin has suggested that maybe the original game is a way of proposing a less biased experimental design as it hides the participation of the computer. The imitation game also includes a \"social hack\" not found in the standard interpretation, as in the game both computer and male human are required to play as pretending to be someone they are not.\n\nA crucial piece of any laboratory test is that there should be a control. Turing never makes clear whether the interrogator in his tests is aware that one of the participants is a computer. However, if there were a machine that did have the potential to pass a Turing test, it would be safe to assume a double blind control would be necessary.\n\nTo return to the original imitation game, he states only that player A is to be replaced with a machine, not that player C is to be made aware of this replacement. When Colby, FD Hilf, S Weber and AD Kramer tested PARRY, they did so by assuming that the interrogators did not need to know that one or more of those being interviewed was a computer during the interrogation. As Ayse Saygin, Peter Swirski, and others have highlighted, this makes a big difference to the implementation and outcome of the test. An experimental study looking at Gricean maxim violations using transcripts of Loebner's one-to-one (interrogator-hidden interlocutor) Prize for AI contests between 1994–1999, Ayse Saygin found significant differences between the responses of participants who knew and did not know about computers being involved.\n\nThe power and appeal of the Turing test derives from its simplicity. The philosophy of mind, psychology, and modern neuroscience have been unable to provide definitions of \"intelligence\" and \"thinking\" that are sufficiently precise and general to be applied to machines. Without such definitions, the central questions of the philosophy of artificial intelligence cannot be answered. The Turing test, even if imperfect, at least provides something that can actually be measured. As such, it is a pragmatic attempt to answer a difficult philosophical question.\n\nThe format of the test allows the interrogator to give the machine a wide variety of intellectual tasks. Turing wrote that \"the question and answer method seems to be suitable for introducing almost any one of the fields of human endeavour that we wish to include.\" John Haugeland adds that \"understanding the words is not enough; you have to understand the \"topic\" as well.\"\n\nTo pass a well-designed Turing test, the machine must use natural language, reason, have knowledge and learn. The test can be extended to include video input, as well as a \"hatch\" through which objects can be passed: this would force the machine to demonstrate the skill of vision and robotics as well. Together, these represent almost all of the major problems that artificial intelligence research would like to solve.\n\nThe Feigenbaum test is designed to take advantage of the broad range of topics available to a Turing test. It is a limited form of Turing's question-answer game which compares the machine against the abilities of experts in specific fields such as literature or chemistry. IBM's Watson machine achieved success in a man versus machine television quiz show of human knowledge, \"Jeopardy!\"\n\nAs a Cambridge honours graduate in mathematics, Turing might have been expected to propose a test of computer intelligence requiring expert knowledge in some highly technical field, and thus anticipating a more recent approach to the subject. Instead, as already noted, the test which he described in his seminal 1950 paper requires the computer to be able to compete successfully in a common party game, and this by performing as well as the typical man in answering a series of questions so as to pretend convincingly to be the woman contestant.\n\nGiven the status of human sexual dimorphism as one of the most ancient of subjects, it is thus implicit in the above scenario that the questions to be answered will involve neither specialised factual knowledge nor information processing technique. The challenge for the computer, rather, will be to demonstrate empathy for the role of the female, and to demonstrate as well a characteristic aesthetic sensibility—both of which qualities are on display in this snippet of dialogue which Turing has imagined:\n\nWhen Turing does introduce some specialised knowledge into one of his imagined dialogues, the subject is not maths or electronics, but poetry:\n\nTuring thus once again demonstrates his interest in empathy and aesthetic sensitivity as components of an artificial intelligence; and in light of an increasing awareness of the threat from an AI run amuck, it has been suggested that this focus perhaps represents a critical intuition on Turing's part, i.e., that emotional and aesthetic intelligence will play a key role in the creation of a \"friendly AI\". It is further noted, however, that whatever inspiration Turing might be able to lend in this direction depends upon the preservation of his original vision, which is to say, further, that the promulgation of a \"standard interpretation\" of the Turing test—i.e., one which focuses on a discursive intelligence only—must be regarded with some caution.\n\nTuring did not explicitly state that the Turing test could be used as a measure of intelligence, or any other human quality. He wanted to provide a clear and understandable alternative to the word \"think\", which he could then use to reply to criticisms of the possibility of \"thinking machines\" and to suggest ways that research might move forward.\n\nNevertheless, the Turing test has been proposed as a measure of a machine's \"ability to think\" or its \"intelligence\". This proposal has received criticism from both philosophers and computer scientists. It assumes that an interrogator can determine if a machine is \"thinking\" by comparing its behaviour with human behaviour. Every element of this assumption has been questioned: the reliability of the interrogator's judgement, the value of comparing only behaviour and the value of comparing the machine with a human. Because of these and other considerations, some AI researchers have questioned the relevance of the test to their field.\n\nThe Turing test does not directly test whether the computer behaves intelligently. It tests only whether the computer behaves like a human being. Since human behaviour and intelligent behaviour are not exactly the same thing, the test can fail to accurately measure intelligence in two ways:\n\n\n\nThe Turing test is concerned strictly with how the subject \"acts\" – the external behaviour of the machine. In this regard, it takes a behaviourist or functionalist approach to the study of the mind. The example of ELIZA suggests that a machine passing the test may be able to simulate human conversational behaviour by following a simple (but large) list of mechanical rules, without thinking or having a mind at all.\n\nJohn Searle has argued that external behaviour cannot be used to determine if a machine is \"actually\" thinking or merely \"simulating thinking.\" His Chinese room argument is intended to show that, even if the Turing test is a good operational definition of intelligence, it may not indicate that the machine has a mind, consciousness, or intentionality. (Intentionality is a philosophical term for the power of thoughts to be \"about\" something.)\n\nTuring anticipated this line of criticism in his original paper, writing: \n\nIn practice, the test's results can easily be dominated not by the computer's intelligence, but by the attitudes, skill, or naïveté of the questioner.\n\nTuring does not specify the precise skills and knowledge required by the interrogator in his description of the test, but he did use the term \"average interrogator\": \"[the] average interrogator would not have more than 70 per cent chance of making the right identification after five minutes of questioning\".\n\nChatterbot programs such as ELIZA have repeatedly fooled unsuspecting people into believing that they are communicating with human beings. In these cases, the \"interrogators\" are not even aware of the possibility that they are interacting with computers. To successfully appear human, there is no need for the machine to have any intelligence whatsoever and only a superficial resemblance to human behaviour is required.\n\nEarly Loebner Prize competitions used \"unsophisticated\" interrogators who were easily fooled by the machines. Since 2004, the Loebner Prize organisers have deployed philosophers, computer scientists, and journalists among the interrogators. Nonetheless, some of these experts have been deceived by the machines.\n\nMichael Shermer points out that human beings consistently choose to consider non-human objects as human whenever they are allowed the chance, a mistake called the anthropomorphic fallacy: They talk to their cars, ascribe desire and intentions to natural forces (e.g., \"nature abhors a vacuum\"), and worship the sun as a human-like being with intelligence. If the Turing test is applied to religious objects, Shermer argues, then, that inanimate statues, rocks, and places have consistently passed the test throughout history. This human tendency towards anthropomorphism effectively lowers the bar for the Turing test, unless interrogators are specifically trained to avoid it.\n\nOne interesting feature of the Turing test is the frequency of the confederate effect, when the confederate (tested) humans are misidentified by the interrogators as machines. It has been suggested that what interrogators expect as human responses is not necessarily typical of humans. As a result, some individuals can be categorised as machines. This can therefore work in favour of a competing machine. The humans are instructed to \"act themselves\", but sometimes their answers are more like what the interrogator expects a machine to say. This raises the question of how to ensure that the humans are motivated to \"act human\".\n\nA critical aspect of the Turing test is that a machine must give itself away as being a machine by its utterances. An interrogator must then make the \"right identification\" by correctly identifying the machine as being just that. If however a machine remains silent during a conversation, i.e. takes the fifth, then it is not possible for an interrogator to accurately identify the machine other than by means of a calculated guess.\nEven taking into account a parallel/hidden human as part of the test may not help the situation as humans can often be misidentified as being a machine.\n\nMainstream AI researchers argue that trying to pass the Turing test is merely a distraction from more fruitful research. Indeed, the Turing test is not an active focus of much academic or commercial effort—as Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig write: \"AI researchers have devoted little attention to passing the Turing test.\" There are several reasons.\n\nFirst, there are easier ways to test their programs. Most current research in AI-related fields is aimed at modest and specific goals, such as automated scheduling, object recognition, or logistics. To test the intelligence of the programs that solve these problems, AI researchers simply give them the task directly. Russell and Norvig suggest an analogy with the history of flight: Planes are tested by how well they fly, not by comparing them to birds. \"Aeronautical engineering texts,\" they write, \"do not define the goal of their field as 'making machines that fly so exactly like pigeons that they can fool other pigeons.\n\nSecond, creating lifelike simulations of human beings is a difficult problem on its own that does not need to be solved to achieve the basic goals of AI research. Believable human characters may be interesting in a work of art, a game, or a sophisticated user interface, but they are not part of the science of creating intelligent machines, that is, machines that solve problems using intelligence.\n\nTuring wanted to provide a clear and understandable example to aid in the discussion of the philosophy of artificial intelligence. John McCarthy observes that the philosophy of AI is \"unlikely to have any more effect on the practice of AI research than philosophy of science generally has on the practice of science.\"\n\nRobert French (1990) makes the case that an interrogator can distinguish human and non-human interlocutors by posing questions that reveal the low-level (i.e., unconscious) processes of human cognition, as studied by cognitive science. Such questions reveal the precise details of the human embodiment of thought and can unmask a computer unless it experiences the world as humans do.\n\nNumerous other versions of the Turing test, including those expounded above, have been raised through the years.\n\nA modification of the Turing test wherein the objective of one or more of the roles have been reversed between machines and humans is termed a reverse Turing test. An example is implied in the work of psychoanalyst Wilfred Bion, who was particularly fascinated by the \"storm\" that resulted from the encounter of one mind by another. In his 2000 book, among several other original points with regard to the Turing test, literary scholar Peter Swirski discussed in detail the idea of what he termed the Swirski test—essentially the reverse Turing test. He pointed out that it overcomes most if not all standard objections levelled at the standard version.\n\nCarrying this idea forward, R. D. Hinshelwood described the mind as a \"mind recognizing apparatus\". The challenge would be for the computer to be able to determine if it were interacting with a human or another computer. This is an extension of the original question that Turing attempted to answer but would, perhaps, offer a high enough standard to define a machine that could \"think\" in a way that we typically define as characteristically human.\n\nCAPTCHA is a form of reverse Turing test. Before being allowed to perform some action on a website, the user is presented with alphanumerical characters in a distorted graphic image and asked to type them out. This is intended to prevent automated systems from being used to abuse the site. The rationale is that software sufficiently sophisticated to read and reproduce the distorted image accurately does not exist (or is not available to the average user), so any system able to do so is likely to be a human.\n\nSoftware that could reverse CAPTCHA with some accuracy by analysing patterns in the generating engine started being developed soon after the creation of CAPTCHA.\nIn 2013, researchers at Vicarious announced that they had developed a system to solve CAPTCHA challenges from Google, Yahoo!, and PayPal up to 90% of the time.\nIn 2014, Google engineers demonstrated a system that could defeat CAPTCHA challenges with 99.8% accuracy.\nIn 2015, Shuman Ghosemajumder, former click fraud czar of Google, stated that there were cybercriminal sites that would defeat CAPTCHA challenges for a fee, to enable various forms of fraud.\n\nAnother variation is described as the subject matter expert Turing test, where a machine's response cannot be distinguished from an expert in a given field. This is also known as a \"Feigenbaum test\" and was proposed by Edward Feigenbaum in a 2003 paper.\n\nThe \"Total Turing test\" variation of the Turing test, proposed by cognitive scientist Stevan Harnad, adds two further requirements to the traditional Turing test. The interrogator can also test the perceptual abilities of the subject (requiring computer vision) and the subject's ability to manipulate objects (requiring robotics).\n\nA letter published in \"Communications of the ACM\" describes the concept of generating a synthetic patient population and proposes a variation of Turing test to assess the difference between synthetic and real patients. The letter states: \"In the EHR context, though a human physician can readily distinguish between synthetically generated and real live human patients, could a machine be given the intelligence to make such a determination on its own?\" and further the letter states: \"Before synthetic patient identities become a public health problem, the legitimate EHR market might benefit from applying Turing Test-like techniques to ensure greater data reliability and diagnostic value. Any new techniques must thus consider patients' heterogeneity and are likely to have greater complexity than the Allen eighth-grade-science-test is able to grade.\"\n\nThe minimum intelligent signal test was proposed by Chris McKinstry as \"the maximum abstraction of the Turing test\", in which only binary responses (true/false or yes/no) are permitted, to focus only on the capacity for thought. It eliminates text chat problems like anthropomorphism bias, and does not require emulation of unintelligent human behaviour, allowing for systems that exceed human intelligence. The questions must each stand on their own, however, making it more like an IQ test than an interrogation. It is typically used to gather statistical data against which the performance of artificial intelligence programs may be measured.\n\nThe organisers of the Hutter Prize believe that compressing natural language text is a hard AI problem, equivalent to passing the Turing test.\n\nThe data compression test has some advantages over most versions and variations of a Turing test, including:\n\n\nThe main disadvantages of using data compression as a test are:\n\nA related approach to Hutter's prize which appeared much earlier in the late 1990s is the inclusion of compression problems in an extended Turing test. or by tests which are completely derived from Kolmogorov complexity.\nOther related tests in this line are presented by Hernandez-Orallo and Dowe.\n\nAlgorithmic IQ, or AIQ for short, is an attempt to convert the theoretical Universal Intelligence Measure from Legg and Hutter (based on Solomonoff's inductive inference) into a working practical test of machine intelligence.\n\nTwo major advantages of some of these tests are their applicability to nonhuman intelligences and their absence of a requirement for human testers.\n\nThe Turing test inspired the Ebert test proposed in 2011 by film critic Roger Ebert which is a test whether a computer-based synthesised voice has sufficient skill in terms of intonations, inflections, timing and so forth, to make people laugh.\n\nTuring predicted that machines would eventually be able to pass the test; in fact, he estimated that by the year 2000, machines with around 100 MB of storage would be able to fool 30% of human judges in a five-minute test, and that people would no longer consider the phrase \"thinking machine\" contradictory. (In practice, from 2009–2012, the Loebner Prize chatterbot contestants only managed to fool a judge once, and that was only due to the human contestant pretending to be a chatbot.) He further predicted that machine learning would be an important part of building powerful machines, a claim considered plausible by contemporary researchers in artificial intelligence.\n\nIn a 2008 paper submitted to 19th Midwest Artificial Intelligence and Cognitive Science Conference, Dr. Shane T. Mueller predicted a modified Turing test called a \"Cognitive Decathlon\" could be accomplished within five years.\n\nBy extrapolating an exponential growth of technology over several decades, futurist Ray Kurzweil predicted that Turing test-capable computers would be manufactured in the near future. In 1990, he set the year around 2020. By 2005, he had revised his estimate to 2029.\n\nThe Long Bet Project Bet Nr. 1 is a wager of $20,000 between Mitch Kapor (pessimist) and Ray Kurzweil (optimist) about whether a computer will pass a lengthy Turing test by the year 2029. During the Long Now Turing Test, each of three Turing test judges will conduct online interviews of each of the four Turing test candidates (i.e., the computer and the three Turing test human foils) for two hours each for a total of eight hours of interviews. The bet specifies the conditions in some detail.\n\n1990 marked the fortieth anniversary of the first publication of Turing's \"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\" paper, and, saw renewed interest in the test. Two significant events occurred in that year: The first was the Turing Colloquium, which was held at the University of Sussex in April, and brought together academics and researchers from a wide variety of disciplines to discuss the Turing test in terms of its past, present, and future; the second was the formation of the annual Loebner Prize competition.\n\nBlay Whitby lists four major turning points in the history of the Turing test – the publication of \"Computing Machinery and Intelligence\" in 1950, the announcement of Joseph Weizenbaum's ELIZA in 1966, Kenneth Colby's creation of PARRY, which was first described in 1972, and the Turing Colloquium in 1990.\n\nIn November 2005, the University of Surrey hosted an inaugural one-day meeting of artificial conversational entity developers,\nattended by winners of practical Turing tests in the Loebner Prize: Robby Garner, Richard Wallace and Rollo Carpenter. Invited speakers included David Hamill, Hugh Loebner (sponsor of the Loebner Prize) and Huma Shah.\n\nIn parallel to the 2008 Loebner Prize held at the University of Reading,\nthe Society for the Study of Artificial Intelligence and the Simulation of Behaviour (AISB), hosted a one-day symposium to discuss the Turing test, organised by John Barnden, Mark Bishop, Huma Shah and Kevin Warwick.\nThe speakers included the Royal Institution's Director Baroness Susan Greenfield, Selmer Bringsjord, Turing's biographer Andrew Hodges, and consciousness scientist Owen Holland. No agreement emerged for a canonical Turing test, though Bringsjord expressed that a sizeable prize would result in the Turing test being passed sooner.\n\nThroughout 2012, a number of major events took place to celebrate Turing's life and scientific impact. The Turing100 group supported these events and also, organised a special Turing test event in Bletchley Park on 23 June 2012 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Turing's birth.\n\n"}
{"id": "32375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32375", "title": "Voltaire", "text": "Voltaire\n\nFrançois-Marie Arouet (; 21 November 169430 May 1778), known by his \"nom de plume\" Voltaire (; ), was a French Enlightenment writer, historian and philosopher famous for his wit, his criticism of Christianity, especially the Catholic Church, and his advocacy of freedom of religion, freedom of speech, and separation of church and state.\n\nVoltaire was a versatile and prolific writer, producing works in almost every literary form, including plays, poems, novels, essays and historical and scientific works. He wrote more than 20,000 letters and more than 2,000 books and pamphlets. He was an outspoken advocate of civil liberties, despite the risk this placed him in under the strict censorship laws of the time. As a satirical polemicist, he frequently made use of his works to criticize intolerance, religious dogma and the French institutions of his day.\n\nFrançois-Marie Arouet was born in Paris, the youngest of the five children of François Arouet (19 August 16491 January 1722), a lawyer who was a minor treasury official, and his wife, Marie Marguerite Daumard (c. 166013 July 1701), whose family was on the lowest rank of the French nobility. Some speculation surrounds Voltaire's date of birth, because he claimed he was born on 20 February 1694 as the illegitimate son of a nobleman, Guérin de Rochebrune or Roquebrune. Two of his older brothers—Armand-François and Robert—died in infancy, and his surviving brother Armand and sister Marguerite-Catherine were nine and seven years older, respectively. Nicknamed \"Zozo\" by his family, Voltaire was baptized on 22 November 1694, with , and Marie Daumard, the wife of his mother's cousin, standing as godparents. He was educated by the Jesuits at the Collège Louis-le-Grand (1704–1711), where he was taught Latin, theology, and rhetoric; later in life he became fluent in Italian, Spanish, and English.\n\nBy the time he left school, Voltaire had decided he wanted to be a writer, against the wishes of his father, who wanted him to become a lawyer. Voltaire, pretending to work in Paris as an assistant to a notary, spent much of his time writing poetry. When his father found out, he sent Voltaire to study law, this time in Caen, Normandy. But the young man continued to write, producing essays and historical studies. Voltaire's wit made him popular among some of the aristocratic families with whom he mixed. In 1713, his father obtained a job for him as a secretary to the new French ambassador in the Netherlands, the , the brother of Voltaire's godfather. At The Hague, Voltaire fell in love with a French Protestant refugee named Catherine Olympe Dunoyer (known as 'Pimpette'). Their affair, considered scandalous, was discovered by de Châteauneuf and Voltaire was forced to return to France by the end of the year.\nMost of Voltaire's early life revolved around Paris. From early on, Voltaire had trouble with the authorities for critiques of the government. As a result, he was twice sentenced to prison and once to temporary exile to England. One satirical verse, in which Voltaire accused the Régent of incest with his daughter, resulted in an eleven-month imprisonment in the Bastille. The \"Comédie-Française\" had agreed in January 1717 to stage his debut play, \"Œdipe\", and it opened in mid-November 1718, seven months after his release. Its immediate critical and financial success established his reputation. Both the Régent and King George I of Great Britain presented Voltaire with medals as a mark of their appreciation.\n\nHe mainly argued for religious tolerance and freedom of thought. He campaigned to eradicate priestly and aristo-monarchical authority, and supported a constitutional monarchy that protects people's rights.\n\nThe author adopted the name Voltaire in 1718, following his incarceration at the Bastille. Its origin is unclear. It is an anagram of \"AROVET LI\", the Latinized spelling of his surname, Arouet, and the initial letters of \"le jeune\" (\"the young\"). According to a family tradition among the descendants of his sister, he was known as \"le petit volontaire\" (\"determined little thing\") as a child, and he resurrected a variant of the name in his adult life. The name also reverses the syllables of Airvault, his family's home town in the Poitou region.\n\nRichard Holmes supports the anagrammatic derivation of the name, but adds that a writer such as Voltaire would have intended it to also convey connotations of speed and daring. These come from associations with words such as \"voltige\" (acrobatics on a trapeze or horse), \"volte-face\" (a spinning about to face one's enemies), and \"volatile\" (originally, any winged creature). \"Arouet\" was not a noble name fit for his growing reputation, especially given that name's resonance with \"à rouer\" (\"to be beaten up\") and \"roué\" (a \"débauché\").\n\nIn a letter to Jean-Baptiste Rousseau in March 1719, Voltaire concludes by asking that, if Rousseau wishes to send him a return letter, he do so by addressing it to Monsieur de Voltaire. A postscript explains: \"J'ai été si malheureux sous le nom d'Arouet que j'en ai pris un autre surtout pour n'être plus confondu avec le poète Roi\", (I was so unhappy under the name of Arouet that I have taken another, primarily so as to cease to be confused with the poet Roi.) This probably refers to Adenes le Roi, and the 'oi' diphthong was then pronounced like modern 'ouai', so the similarity to 'Arouet' is clear, and thus, it could well have been part of his rationale. Voltaire is known also to have used at least 178 separate pen names during his lifetime.\n\nVoltaire's next play, \"Artémire\", set in ancient Macedonia, opened on 15 February 1720. It was a flop and only fragments of the text survive. He instead turned to an epic poem about Henry IV of France that he had begun in early 1717. Denied a licence to publish, in August 1722 Voltaire headed north to find a publisher outside France. On the journey, he was accompanied by his mistress, Marie-Marguerite de Rupelmonde, a young widow.\n\nAt Brussels, Voltaire and Rousseau met up for a few days, before Voltaire and his mistress continued northwards. A publisher was eventually secured in The Hague. In the Netherlands, Voltaire was struck and impressed by the openness and tolerance of Dutch society. On his return to France, he secured a second publisher in Rouen, who agreed to publish \"La Henriade\" clandestinely. After Voltaire's recovery from a month-long smallpox infection in November 1723, the first copies were smuggled into Paris and distributed. While the poem was an instant success, Voltaire's new play, \"Mariamne\", was a failure when it first opened in March 1724. Heavily reworked, it opened at the \"Comédie-Française\" in April 1725 to a much-improved reception. It was among the entertainments provided at the wedding of Louis XV and Marie Leszczyńska in September 1725.\n\nIn early 1726, a young French nobleman, the chevalier de Rohan-Chabot, taunted Voltaire about his change of name, and Voltaire retorted that his name would be honored while de Rohan would dishonor his. Infuriated, de Rohan arranged for Voltaire to be beaten up by thugs a few days later. Seeking compensation, redress, or revenge, Voltaire challenged de Rohan to a duel, but the aristocratic de Rohan family arranged for Voltaire to be arrested and imprisoned in the Bastille on 17 April 1726 without a trial or an opportunity to defend himself. Fearing an indefinite prison sentence, Voltaire suggested that he be exiled to England as an alternative punishment, which the French authorities accepted. On 2 May, he was escorted from the Bastille to Calais, where he was to embark for Britain.\nIn England, Voltaire lived largely in Wandsworth, with acquaintances including Everard Fawkener. From December 1727 to June 1728 he lodged at Maiden Lane, Covent Garden, now commemorated by a plaque, to be nearer to his British publisher. Voltaire circulated throughout English high society, meeting Alexander Pope, John Gay, Jonathan Swift, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, Sarah, Duchess of Marlborough, and many other members of the nobility and royalty. Voltaire's exile in Great Britain greatly influenced his thinking. He was intrigued by Britain's constitutional monarchy in contrast to French absolutism, and by the country's greater support of the freedoms of speech and religion. He was influenced by the writers of the age, and developed an interest in earlier English literature, especially the works of Shakespeare, still relatively unknown in continental Europe. Despite pointing out his deviations from neoclassical standards, Voltaire saw Shakespeare as an example that French writers might emulate, since French drama, despite being more polished, lacked on-stage action. Later, however, as Shakespeare's influence began growing in France, Voltaire tried to set a contrary example with his own plays, decrying what he considered Shakespeare's barbarities. Voltaire may have been present at the funeral of Isaac Newton, and met Newton's niece, Catherine Conduitt. In 1727, he published two essays in English, \"Upon the Civil Wars of France, Extracted from Curious Manuscripts\" and \"Upon Epic Poetry of the European Nations, from Homer Down to Milton\".\n\nAfter two and a half years in exile, Voltaire returned to France, and after a few months living in Dieppe, the authorities permitted him to return to Paris. At a dinner, French mathematician Charles Marie de La Condamine proposed buying up the lottery that was organized by the French government to pay off its debts, and Voltaire joined the consortium, earning perhaps a million livres. He invested the money cleverly and on this basis managed to convince the Court of Finances that he was of good conduct and so was able to take control of a capital inheritance from his father that had hitherto been tied up in trust. He was now indisputably rich.\n\nFurther success followed, in 1732, with his play \"Zaïre\", which when published in 1733 carried a dedication to Fawkener that praised English liberty and commerce. At this time he published his views on British attitudes toward government, literature, religion and science in a collection of essays in letter form entitled \"Letters Concerning the English Nation\" (London, 1733). In 1734, they were published in French as \"Lettres philosophiques\" in Rouen. Because the publisher released the book without the approval of the royal censor and Voltaire regarded the British constitutional monarchy as more developed and more respectful of human rights (particularly religious tolerance) than its French counterpart, the French publication of \"Letters\" caused a huge scandal; the book was publicly burnt and banned, and Voltaire was forced again to flee Paris.\n\nIn 1733, Voltaire met Émilie du Châtelet, a married mother of three who was 12 years his junior and with whom he was to have an affair for 16 years. To avoid arrest after the publication of \"Letters\", Voltaire took refuge at her husband's château at Cirey-sur-Blaise, on the borders of Champagne and Lorraine. Voltaire paid for the building's renovation, and Émilie's husband, the Marquis du Châtelet, sometimes stayed at the château with his wife and her lover. The relationship had a significant intellectual element. Voltaire and the Marquise du Châtelet collected around 21,000 books, an enormous number for the time. Together, they studied these books and performed experiments in the natural sciences at Cirey, which included an attempt to determine the nature of fire.\n\nHaving learned from his previous brushes with the authorities, Voltaire began his habit of keeping out of personal harm's way and denying any awkward responsibility. He continued to write plays, such as \"Mérope\" (or \"La Mérope française\") and began his long research into science and history. Again, a main source of inspiration for Voltaire were the years of his British exile, during which he had been strongly influenced by the works of Sir Isaac Newton. Voltaire strongly believed in Newton's theories; he performed experiments in optics at Cirey, and was one of the sources for the famous story of Newton and the apple falling from the tree, which he had learned from Newton's niece in London and first mentioned in his \"Letters\".\nIn the fall of 1735, Voltaire was visited by Francesco Algarotti, who was preparing a book about Newton in Italian. Partly inspired by the visit, the Marquise translated Newton's Latin \"Principia\" into French in full, and it remained the definitive French translation into the 21st century. Both she and Voltaire were also curious about the philosophies of Gottfried Leibniz, a contemporary and rival of Newton. While Voltaire remained a firm Newtonian, the Marquise adopted certain aspects of Leibniz's arguments against Newton. Voltaire's own book \"Elements of Newton's Philosophy\" made Newton accessible and understandable to a far greater public, and the Marquise wrote a celebratory review in the \"Journal des savants\". Voltaire's work was instrumental in bringing about general acceptance of Newton's optical and gravitational theories in France.\n\nVoltaire and the Marquise also studied history, particularly those persons who had contributed to civilization. Voltaire's second essay in English had been \"Essay upon the Civil Wars in France\". It was followed by \"La Henriade\", an epic poem on the French King Henri IV, glorifying his attempt to end the Catholic-Protestant massacres with the Edict of Nantes, and by a historical novel on King Charles XII of Sweden. These, along with his \"Letters on the English\" mark the beginning of Voltaire's open criticism of intolerance and established religions. Voltaire and the Marquise also explored philosophy, particularly metaphysics, the branch of philosophy that deals with being and with what lies beyond the material realm, such as whether or not there is a God and whether people have souls. Voltaire and the Marquise analyzed the Bible and concluded that much of its content was dubious. Voltaire's critical views on religion are reflected in his belief in separation of church and state and religious freedom, ideas that he had formed after his stay in England.\n\nIn August 1736, Frederick the Great, then Crown Prince of Prussia and a great admirer of Voltaire, initiated a correspondence with him. That December, Voltaire moved to Holland for two months and became acquainted with the scientists Herman Boerhaave and 's Gravesande. From mid-1739 to mid-1740 Voltaire lived largely in Brussels, at first with the Marquise, who was unsuccessfully attempting to pursue a 60-year-old family legal case regarding the ownership of two estates in Limburg. In July 1740, he traveled to the Hague on behalf of Frederick in an attempt to dissuade a dubious publisher, van Duren, from printing without permission Frederick's \"Anti-Machiavel\". In September Voltaire and Frederick (now King) met for the first time in Moyland Castle near Cleves and in November Voltaire was Frederick's guest in Berlin for two weeks; in September 1742 they met in Aix-la-Chapelle. Voltaire was sent to Frederick's court in 1743 by the French government as an envoy and spy to gauge Frederick's military intentions in the War of the Austrian Succession.\n\nThough deeply committed to the Marquise, Voltaire by 1744 found life at the château confining. On a visit to Paris that year, he found a new love—his niece. At first, his attraction to Marie Louise Mignot was clearly sexual, as evidenced by his letters to her (only discovered in 1957). Much later, they lived together, perhaps platonically, and remained together until Voltaire's death. Meanwhile, the Marquise also took a lover, the Marquis de Saint-Lambert.\n\nAfter the death of the Marquise in childbirth in September 1749, Voltaire briefly returned to Paris and in mid-1750 moved to Prussia at the invitation of Frederick the Great. The Prussian king (with the permission of Louis XV) made him a chamberlain in his household, appointed him to the Order of Merit, and gave him a salary of 20,000 French livres a year. He had rooms at Sanssouci and Charlottenburg Palace. Life went well for Voltaire at first, and in 1751 he completed \"Micromégas\", a piece of science fiction involving ambassadors from another planet witnessing the follies of humankind. However, his relationship with Frederick the Great began to deteriorate after he was accused of theft and forgery by a Jewish financier, Abraham Hirschel, who had invested in Saxon government bonds on behalf of Voltaire at a time when Frederick was involved in sensitive diplomatic negotiations with Saxony.\n\nHe encountered other difficulties: an argument with Maupertuis, the president of the Berlin Academy of Science and a former rival for Émilie's affections, provoked Voltaire's \"Diatribe du docteur Akakia\" (\"Diatribe of Doctor Akakia\"), which satirized some of Maupertuis's theories and his abuse of power in his persecutions of a mutual acquaintance, Johann Samuel König. This greatly angered Frederick, who ordered all copies of the document burned. On 1 January 1752, Voltaire offered to resign as chamberlain and return his insignia of the Order of Merit; at first, Frederick refused until eventually permitting Voltaire to leave in March. On a slow journey back to France, Voltaire stayed at Leipzig and Gotha for a month each, and Kassel for two weeks, arriving at Frankfurt on 31 May. The following morning, he was detained at the inn where he was staying by Frederick's agents, who held him in the city for over three weeks while they, Voltaire and Frederick argued by letter over the return of a satirical book of poetry Frederick had lent to Voltaire. Marie Louise joined him on 9 June. She and her uncle only left Frankfurt in July after she had defended herself from the unwanted advances of one of Frederick's agents and Voltaire's luggage had been ransacked and valuable items taken.\n\nVoltaire's attempts to vilify Frederick for his agents' actions at Frankfurt were largely unsuccessful. Voltaire responded by composing \"Mémoires pour Servir à la Vie de M. de Voltaire\", a work published after his death that paints a largely negative picture of his time spent with Frederick. However, the correspondence between them continued, and though they never met in person again, after the Seven Years' War they largely reconciled.\n\nVoltaire's slow progress toward Paris continued through Mainz, Mannheim, Strasbourg, and Colmar, but in January 1754 Louis XV banned him from Paris, so instead he turned for Geneva, near which he bought a large estate (\"Les Délices\") in early 1755. Though he was received openly at first, the law in Geneva, which banned theatrical performances, and the publication of \"The Maid of Orleans\" against his will soured his relationship with Calvinist Genevans. In late 1758, he bought an even larger estate at Ferney, on the French side of the Franco-Swiss border.\n\nEarly in 1759, Voltaire completed and published \"Candide, ou l'Optimisme\" (\"Candide, or Optimism\"). This satire on Leibniz's philosophy of optimistic determinism remains the work for which Voltaire is perhaps best known. He would stay in Ferney for most of the remaining 20 years of his life, frequently entertaining distinguished guests, such as James Boswell, Adam Smith, Giacomo Casanova, and Edward Gibbon. In 1764, he published one of his best-known philosophical works, the \"Dictionnaire philosophique\", a series of articles mainly on Christian history and dogmas, a few of which were originally written in Berlin.\n\nFrom 1762, he began to champion unjustly persecuted people, the case of Huguenot merchant Jean Calas being the most celebrated. Calas had been tortured to death in 1763, supposedly because he had murdered his eldest son for wanting to convert to Catholicism. His possessions were confiscated and his two daughters were taken from his widow and were forced into Catholic convents. Voltaire, seeing this as a clear case of religious persecution, managed to overturn the conviction in 1765.\n\nVoltaire was initiated into Freemasonry a little over a month before his death. On 4 April 1778, Voltaire attended \"la Loge des Neuf Sœurs\" in Paris, and became an Entered Apprentice Freemason. According to some sources, \"Benjamin Franklin ... urged Voltaire to become a freemason; and Voltaire agreed, perhaps only to please Franklin.\" However, Benjamin Franklin was merely a visitor at the time Voltaire was initiated, the two only met a month before Voltaire's death, and their interactions with each other were brief.\nIn February 1778, Voltaire returned for the first time in over 25 years to Paris, among other reasons to see the opening of his latest tragedy, \"Irene\". The five-day journey was too much for the 83-year-old, and he believed he was about to die on 28 February, writing \"I die adoring God, loving my friends, not hating my enemies, and detesting superstition.\" However, he recovered, and in March saw a performance of \"Irene\", where he was treated by the audience as a returning hero.\n\nHe soon became ill again and died on 30 May 1778. The accounts of his deathbed have been numerous and varying, and it has not been possible to establish the details of what precisely occurred. His enemies related that he repented and accepted the last rites given by a Catholic priest, or that he died under great torment, while his adherents told how he was defiant to his last breath. According to one story of his last words, his response to a priest at his deathbed urging him to renounce Satan was \"Now is not the time for making new enemies.\" However, this appears to have originated from a joke first published in a Massachusetts newspaper in 1856, and was only attributed to Voltaire in the 1970s.\n\nBecause of his well-known criticism of the Church, which he had refused to retract before his death, Voltaire was denied a Christian burial in Paris, but friends and relations managed to bury his body secretly at the Abbey of Scellières in Champagne, where Marie Louise's brother was \"abbé\". His heart and brain were embalmed separately.\nRegarding Voltaire as a forerunner of the French Revolution, the National Assembly of France had his remains brought back to Paris, and enshrined in the Panthéon on 11 July 1791. It is estimated that a million people attended the procession, which stretched throughout Paris. There was an elaborate ceremony, complete with an orchestra, and the music included a piece that André Grétry had composed especially for the event, which included a part for the \"tuba curva\" (an instrument that originated in Roman times as the cornu but had recently been revived under a new name).\n\nVoltaire had an enormous influence on the development of historiography through his demonstration of fresh new ways to look at the past. Guillaume de Syon argues:\nVoltaire's best-known histories are \"History of Charles XII\" (1731), \"The Age of Louis XIV\" (1751), and his \"Essay on the Customs and the Spirit of the Nations\" (1756). He broke from the tradition of narrating diplomatic and military events, and emphasized customs, social history and achievements in the arts and sciences. The \"Essay on Customs\" traced the progress of world civilization in a universal context, thereby rejecting both nationalism and the traditional Christian frame of reference. Influenced by Bossuet's \"Discourse on the Universal History\" (1682), he was the first scholar to make a serious attempt to write the history of the world, eliminating theological frameworks, and emphasizing economics, culture and political history. He treated Europe as a whole, rather than a collection of nations. He was the first to emphasize the debt of medieval culture to Middle Eastern civilization, but otherwise was weak on the Middle Ages. Although he repeatedly warned against political bias on the part of the historian, he did not miss many opportunities to expose the intolerance and frauds of the church over the ages. Voltaire advised scholars that anything contradicting the normal course of nature was not to be believed. Although he found evil in the historical record, he fervently believed reason and educating the illiterate masses would lead to progress.\n\nVoltaire explains his view of historiography in his article on \"History\" in Diderot's \"Encyclopédie\": \"One demands of modern historians more details, better ascertained facts, precise dates, more attention to customs, laws, mores, commerce, finance, agriculture, population.\" Voltaire's histories imposed the values of the Enlightenment on the past, but at the same time he helped free historiography from antiquarianism, Eurocentrism, religious intolerance and a concentration on great men, diplomacy, and warfare. Yale professor Peter Gay says Voltaire wrote \"very good history\", citing his \"scrupulous concern for truths\", \"careful sifting of evidence\", \"intelligent selection of what is important\", \"keen sense of drama\", and \"grasp of the fact that a whole civilization is a unit of study\".\n\nFrom an early age, Voltaire displayed a talent for writing verse and his first published work was poetry. He wrote two book-long epic poems, including the first ever written in French, the \"Henriade\", and later, \"The Maid of Orleans\", besides many other smaller pieces.\n\nThe \"Henriade\" was written in imitation of Virgil, using the alexandrine couplet reformed and rendered monotonous for modern readers but it was a huge success in the 18th and early 19th century, with sixty-five editions and translations into several languages. The epic poem transformed French King Henry IV into a national hero for his attempts at instituting tolerance with his Edict of Nantes. \"La Pucelle\", on the other hand, is a burlesque on the legend of Joan of Arc. Voltaire's minor poems are generally considered superior to either of these two works.\n\nMany of Voltaire's prose works and romances, usually composed as pamphlets, were written as polemics. \"Candide\" attacks the passivity inspired by Leibniz's philosophy of optimism through the character Pangloss's frequent refrain that circumstances are the \"best of all possible worlds\". \"L'Homme aux quarante ecus\" (\"The Man of Forty Pieces of Silver\"), addresses social and political ways of the time; \"Zadig\" and others, the received forms of moral and metaphysical orthodoxy; and some were written to deride the Bible. In these works, Voltaire's ironic style, free of exaggeration, is apparent, particularly the restraint and simplicity of the verbal treatment. \"Candide\" in particular is the best example of his style. Voltaire also has—in common with Jonathan Swift—the distinction of paving the way for science fiction's philosophical irony, particularly in his \"Micromégas\" and the vignette \"Plato's Dream\" (1756).\nIn general, his criticism and miscellaneous writing show a similar style to Voltaire's other works. Almost all of his more substantive works, whether in verse or prose, are preceded by prefaces of one sort or another, which are models of his caustic yet conversational tone. In a vast variety of nondescript pamphlets and writings, he displays his skills at journalism. In pure literary criticism his principal work is the \"Commentaire sur Corneille\", although he wrote many more similar works—sometimes (as in his \"Life and Notices of Molière\") independently and sometimes as part of his \"Siècles\".\n\nVoltaire's works, especially his private letters, frequently contain the word \"l'infâme\" and the expression \"écrasez l'infâme\", or \"crush the infamous\". The phrase refers to abuses of the people by royalty and the clergy that Voltaire saw around him, and the superstition and intolerance that the clergy bred within the people. He had felt these effects in his own exiles, the burnings of his books and those of many others, and in the hideous sufferings of Jean Calas and François-Jean de la Barre. He stated in one of his most famous quotes that \"Superstition sets the whole world in flames; philosophy quenches them.\"\n\nThe most oft-cited Voltaire quotation is apocryphal. He is incorrectly credited with writing, \"I disapprove of what you say, but I will defend to the death your right to say it.\" These were not his words, but rather those of Evelyn Beatrice Hall, written under the pseudonym S. G. Tallentyre in her 1906 biographical book \"The Friends of Voltaire\". Hall intended to summarize in her own words Voltaire's attitude towards Claude Adrien Helvétius and his controversial book \"De l'esprit\", but her first-person expression was mistaken for an actual quotation from Voltaire. Her interpretation does capture the spirit of Voltaire's attitude towards Helvetius; it had been said Hall's summary was inspired by a quotation found in a 1770 Voltaire letter to an Abbot le Riche, in which he was reported to have said, \"I detest what you write, but I would give my life to make it possible for you to continue to write.\" Nevertheless, scholars believe there must have again been misinterpretation, as the letter does not seem to contain any such quote.\n\nVoltaire's first major philosophical work in his battle against \"l'infâme\" was the \"Traité sur la tolérance\" (\"Treatise on Tolerance\"), exposing the Calas affair, along with the tolerance exercised by other faiths and in other eras (for example, by the Jews, the Romans, the Greeks and the Chinese). Then, in his \"Dictionnaire philosophique\", containing such articles as \"Abraham\", \"Genesis\", \"Church Council\", he wrote about what he perceived as the human origins of dogmas and beliefs, as well as inhuman behavior of religious and political institutions in shedding blood over the quarrels of competing sects. Amongst other targets, Voltaire criticized France's colonial policy in North America, dismissing the vast territory of New France as \"a few acres of snow\" (\"quelques arpents de neige\").\n\nVoltaire also engaged in an enormous amount of private correspondence during his life, totalling over 20,000 letters. Theodore Besterman's collected edition of these letters, completed only in 1964, fills 102 volumes. One historian called the letters \"a feast not only of wit and eloquence but of warm friendship, humane feeling, and incisive thought.\"\n\nIn Voltaire's correspondence with Catherine the Great he derided democracy. He wrote, \"Almost nothing great has ever been done in the world except by the genius and firmness of a single man combating the prejudices of the multitude.\"\n\nLike other key Enlightenment thinkers, Voltaire was a deist, expressing the idea: \"What is faith? Is it to believe that which is evident? No. It is perfectly evident to my mind that there exists a necessary, eternal, supreme, and intelligent being. This is no matter of faith, but of reason.\" Voltaire held mixed views of the Abrahamic religions but had a favourable view of Hinduism.\n\nIn a 1763 essay, Voltaire supported the toleration of other religions and ethnicities: \"It does not require great art, or magnificently trained eloquence, to prove that Christians should tolerate each other. I, however, am going further: I say that we should regard all men as our brothers. What? The Turk my brother? The Chinaman my brother? The Jew? The Siam? Yes, without doubt; are we not all children of the same father and creatures of the same God?\"\n\nIn one of his many denunciations of priests of every religious sect, Voltaire describes them as those who \"rise from an incestuous bed, manufacture a hundred versions of God, then eat and drink God, then piss and shit God.\"\n\nIn a letter to Frederick II, King of Prussia, dated 5 January 1767, he wrote about Christianity: \nIn \"La bible enfin expliquée\", he expressed the following attitude to lay reading of the Bible: It is characteristic of fanatics who read the holy scriptures to tell themselves: God killed, so I must kill; Abraham lied, Jacob deceived, Rachel stole: so I must steal, deceive, lie. But, wretch, you are neither Rachel, nor Jacob, nor Abraham, nor God; you are just a mad fool, and the popes who forbade the reading of the Bible were extremely wise.\n\nVoltaire's opinion of the Christian Bible was mixed. Although influenced by Socinian works such as the Bibliotheca Fratrum Polonorum, Voltaire's skeptical attitude to the Bible separated him from Unitarian theologians like Fausto Sozzini or even Biblical-political writers like John Locke. His statements on religion also brought down on him the fury of the Jesuits and in particular Claude-Adrien Nonnotte. This did not hinder his religious practice, though it did win for him a bad reputation in certain religious circles. The deeply Christian Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart wrote to his father the year of Voltaire's death, saying, \"The arch-scoundrel Voltaire has finally kicked the bucket ...\" Voltaire was later deemed to influence Edward Gibbon in claiming that Christianity was a contributor to the fall of the Roman Empire in his book \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\":As Christianity advances, disasters befall the [Roman] empire—arts, science, literature, decay—barbarism and all its revolting concomitants are made to seem the consequences of its decisive triumph—and the unwary reader is conducted, with matchless dexterity, to the desired conclusion—the abominable Manicheism of \"Candide\", and, in fact, of all the productions of Voltaire's historic school—viz., \"that instead of being a merciful, ameliorating, and benignant visitation, the religion of Christians would rather seem to be a scourge sent on man by the author of all evil.\"\n\nHowever, Voltaire also acknowledged the self-sacrifice of Christians. He wrote: \"Perhaps there is nothing greater on earth than the sacrifice of youth and beauty, often of high birth, made by the gentle sex in order to work in hospitals for the relief of human misery, the sight of which is so revolting to our delicacy. Peoples separated from the Roman religion have imitated but imperfectly so generous a charity.\" Yet, according to Daniel-Rops, Voltaire's \"hatred of religion increased with the passage of years. The attack, launched at first against clericalism and theocracy, ended in a furious assault upon Holy Scripture, the dogmas of the Church, and even upon the person of Jesus Christ Himself, who [he] depicted now as a degenerate\". Voltaire's reasoning may be summed up in his well-known saying, \"\".\n\nAccording to Orthodox rabbi Joseph Telushkin, the most significant Enlightenment hostility against Judaism was found in Voltaire; thirty of the 118 articles in his \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" dealt with Jews and described them in consistently negative ways. For example, in Voltaire's \"A Philosophical Dictionary\", he wrote of Jews: \"In short, we find in them only an ignorant and barbarous people, who have long united the most sordid avarice with the most detestable superstition and the most invincible hatred for every people by whom they are tolerated and enriched.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Peter Gay, a contemporary authority on the Enlightenment, also points to Voltaire's remarks (for instance, that the Jews were more tolerant than the Christians) in the \"Traité sur la tolérance\" and surmises that \"Voltaire struck at the Jews to strike at Christianity\". Whatever anti-semitism Voltaire may have felt, Gay suggests, derived from negative personal experience. Bertram Schwarzbach's far more detailed studies of Voltaire's dealings with Jewish people throughout his life concluded that he was anti-biblical, not anti-semitic. His remarks on the Jews and their \"superstitions\" were essentially no different from his remarks on Christians.\n\nTelushkin states that Voltaire did not limit his attack to aspects of Judaism that Christianity used as a foundation, repeatedly making it clear that he despised Jews. Arthur Hertzberg claims that Gay's second suggestion is also untenable, as Voltaire himself denied its validity when he remarked that he had \"forgotten about much larger bankruptcies through Christians\".\n\nSome authors link Voltaire's anti-Judaism to his polygenism. According to Joxe Azurmendi this anti-Judaism has a relative importance in Voltaire's philosophy of history. However, Voltaire's anti-Judaism influences later authors like Ernest Renan.\n\nAccording to the historian Will Durant, Voltaire had initially condemned the persecution of Jews on several occasions including in his work \"Henriade\". As stated by Durant, Voltaire had praised the simplicity, sobriety, regularity, and industry of Jews. However, subsequently, Voltaire had become strongly anti-Semitic after some regrettable personal financial transactions and quarrels with Jewish financiers. In his \"Essai sur les moeurs\" Voltaire had denounced the ancient Hebrews using strong language; a Catholic priest had protested against this censure. The anti-Semitic passages in Voltaire's \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" were criticized by Issac Pinto in 1762. Subsequently, Voltaire agreed with the criticism of his anti-Semitic views and stated that he had been \"wrong to attribute to a whole nation the vices of some individuals\"; he also promised to revise the objectionable passages for forthcoming editions of the \"Dictionnaire philosophique\", but failed to do so.\n\nVoltaire's views about Islam remained negative as he considered the Qur'an to be ignorant of the laws of physics. In a 1740 letter to Frederick II of Prussia, Voltaire ascribes to Muhammad a brutality that \"is assuredly nothing any man can excuse\" and suggests that his following stemmed from superstition. Referring to the prophet, Voltaire continued in his letter, \"But that a camel-merchant should stir up insurrection in his village; that in league with some miserable followers he persuades them that he talks with the angel Gabriel; that he boasts of having been carried to heaven, where he received in part this unintelligible book, each page of which makes common sense shudder; that, to pay homage to this book, he delivers his country to iron and flame; that he cuts the throats of fathers and kidnaps daughters; that he gives to the defeated the choice of his religion or death: this is assuredly nothing any man can excuse, at least if he was not born a Turk, or if superstition has not extinguished all natural light in him.\"\n\nIn 1748, after having read Henri de Boulainvilliers and George Sale, he wrote again about Mohammed and Islam in an article, \"De l'Alcoran et de Mahomet\" (On the Quran and on Mohammed). In the article, Voltaire maintained that Mohammed was a \"sublime charlatan\" Drawing also on complementary information in the \"Oriental Library\" of Herbelot, Voltaire, according to René Pomeau, had a judgement of the Qur'an where he found the book in spite of \"the contradictions, the absurdities, the anachronisms\", \"rhapsody, without connection, without order, and without art\". Thus he \"henceforward conceded\" that \"if his book was bad for our times and for us, it was very good for his contemporaries, and his religion even more so. It must be admitted that he removed almost all of Asia from idolatry\" and that \"it was difficult for such a simple and wise religion, taught by a man who was constantly victorious, could hardly fail to subjugate a portion of the earth.\" He considered that \"its civil laws are good; its dogma is admirable which it has in common with ours\" but that \"his means are shocking; deception and murder\".\n\nIn his \"Essay on the Manners and Spirit of Nations\" (published 1756), Voltaire deals with the history of Europe before Charlemagne to the dawn of the age of Louis XIV, and that of the colonies and the East. As a historian he devoted several chapters to Islam, Voltaire highlighted the Arabian, Turkish courts, and conducts. Here he called Mohammed a \"poet\", and stated that he was not an illiterate. As a \"legislator\", he \"changed the face of part of Europe [and] one half of Asia.\" In chapter VI, Voltaire finds similarities between Arabs and ancient Hebrews, that they both kept running to battle in the name of God, and sharing a passion for the spoils of war. Voltaire continues that, \"It is to be believed that Mohammed, like all enthusiasts, violently struck by his ideas, first presented them in good faith, strengthened them with fantasy, fooled himself in fooling others, and supported through necessary deceptions a doctrine which he considered good.\" He thus compares \"the genius of the Arab people\" with \"the genius of the ancient Romans\".\n\nThe tragedy \"Fanaticism, or Mahomet the Prophet\" () was written in 1736 by Voltaire. The play is a study of religious fanaticism and self-serving manipulation. The character Muhammad orders the murder of his critics. Voltaire described the play as \"written in opposition to the founder of a false and barbarous sect.\"\n\nVoltaire described Muhammad as an \"impostor\", a \"false prophet\", a \"fanatic\" and a \"hypocrite\". Defending the play, Voltaire said that he \"tried to show in it into what horrible excesses fanaticism, led by an impostor, can plunge weak minds\". When Voltaire wrote in 1742 to César de Missy, he described Mohammed as deceitful.\n\nIn his play, Mohammed was \"whatever trickery can invent that is most atrocious and whatever fanaticism can accomplish that is most horrifying. Mahomet here is nothing other than Tartuffe with armies at his command.\" After later having judged that he had made Mohammed in his play \"somewhat nastier than he really was\", Voltaire claims that Muhammad stole the idea of an angel weighing both men and women from Zoroastrians, who are often referred to as \"Magi\". Voltaire continues about Islam, saying:\nIn a 1745 letter recommending the play to Pope Benedict XIV, Voltaire described Muhammad as \"the founder of a false and barbarous sect\" and \"a false prophet\". Voltaire wrote: \"Your holiness will pardon the liberty taken by one of the lowest of the faithful, though a zealous admirer of virtue, of submitting to the head of the true religion this performance, written in opposition to the founder of a false and barbarous sect. To whom could I with more propriety inscribe a satire on the cruelty and errors of a false prophet, than to the vicar and representative of a God of truth and mercy?\" His view was modified slightly for \"Essai sur les Moeurs et l'Esprit des Nations\", although they remained negative. In 1751, Voltaire performed his play \"Mohamet\" once again, with great success.\n\nCommenting on the sacred texts of the Hindus, the Vedas, Voltaire observed: The Veda was the most precious gift for which the West had ever been indebted to the East.\n\nHe regarded Hindus as \"a peaceful and innocent people, equally incapable of hurting others or of defending themselves.\" Voltaire was himself a supporter of animal rights and was a vegetarian. He used the antiquity of Hinduism to land what he saw as a devastating blow to the Bible's claims and acknowledged that the Hindus' treatment of animals showed a shaming alternative to the immorality of European imperialists.\n\nVoltaire rejected the biblical Adam and Eve story and was a polygenist who speculated that each race had entirely separate origins. According to William Cohen, like most other polygenists, Voltaire believed that because of their different origins blacks did not entirely share the natural humanity of whites. According to David Allen Harvey, Voltaire often invoked racial differences as a means to attack religious orthodoxy, and the Biblical account of creation.\n\nHis most famous remark on slavery is found in \"Candide\", where the hero is horrified to learn \"at what price we eat sugar in Europe\" after coming across a slave in French Guiana who has been mutilated for escaping, who opines that, if all human beings have common origins as the Bible taught, it makes them cousins, concluding that \"no one could treat their relatives more horribly\". Elsewhere, he wrote caustically about \"whites and Christians [who] proceed to purchase negroes cheaply, in order to sell them dear in America\". Voltaire has been accused of supporting the slave trade as per a letter attributed to him, although it has been suggested that this letter is a forgery \"since no satisfying source attests to the letter's existence.\"\n\nIn his \"Philosophical Dictionary\", Voltaire endorses Montesquieu's criticism of the slave trade: \"Montesquieu was almost always in error with the learned, because he was not learned, but he was almost always right against the fanatics and the promoters of slavery.\"\n\nZeev Sternhell argues that despite his shortcomings, Voltaire was a forerunner of liberal pluralism in his approach to history and non-European cultures. Voltaire wrote, \"We have slandered the Chinese because their metaphysics is not the same as ours ... This great misunderstanding about Chinese rituals has come about because we have judged their usages by ours, for we carry the prejudices of our contentious spirit to the end of the world.\" In speaking of Persia, he condemned Europe's \"ignorant audacity\" and \"ignorant credulity\". When writing about India, he declares, \"It is time for us to give up the shameful habit of slandering all sects and insulting all nations!\" In \"Essai sur les mœurs et l'esprit des nations\", he defended the integrity of the Native Americans and wrote favorably of the Inca Empire.\n\nAccording to Victor Hugo: \"To name Voltaire is to characterize the entire eighteenth century.\" Goethe regarded Voltaire to be the greatest literary figure in modern times, and possibly of all times. According to Diderot, Voltaire's influence on posterity would extend far into the future. Napoleon commented that till he was sixteen he \"would have fought for Rousseau against the friends of Voltaire, today it is the opposite...The more I read Voltaire the more I love him. He is a man always reasonable, never a charlatan, never a fanatic.\" Frederick the Great commented on his good fortune for having lived in the age of Voltaire, and corresponded with him throughout his reign until Voltaire's death. In England, Voltaire's views influenced Godwin, Paine, Mary Wollstonecraft, Bentham, Byron and Shelley. Macaulay made note of the fear that Voltaire's very name incited in tyrants and fanatics.\n\nIn Russia, Catherine the Great had been reading Voltaire for sixteen years prior to becoming Empress in 1762. In October 1763, she began a correspondence with the philosopher that continued till his death. The content of these letters has been described as being akin to a student writing to a teacher. Upon Voltaire's death, the Empress purchased his library, which was then transported and placed in The Hermitage. Alexander Herzen remarked that \"The writings of the egoist Voltaire did more for liberation than those of the loving Rousseau did for brotherhood.\" In his famous letter to N. V. Gogol, Vissarion Belinsky wrote that Voltaire \"stamped out the fires of fanaticism and ignorance in Europe by ridicule.\"\n\nIn his native Paris, Voltaire was viewed as the defender of Jean Calas and Pierre Sirven. Although he failed in securing the annulment of la Barre's execution for \"blasphemies\" against Christianity, despite a protracted campaign, the criminal code that sanctioned the execution was revised during Voltaire's lifetime. In 1764, Voltaire successfully intervened and secured the release of Claude Chamont for the crime of attending Protestant services. When Comte de Lally was executed for treason in 1766, Voltaire wrote a 300-page document absolving de Lally. Subsequently, in 1778, the judgment against de Lally was expunged just before Voltaire's death. The Genevan Protestant minister Pomaret once said to Voltaire, \"You seem to attack Christianity, and yet you do the work of a Christian.\" Frederick the Great noted the significance of a philosopher capable of influencing judges to change their unjust decisions, commenting that this alone is sufficient to ensure the prominence of Voltaire as a humanitarian.\n\nUnder the French Third Republic, anarchists and socialists often invoked Voltaire's writings in their struggles against militarism, nationalism, and the Catholic Church. The section condemning the futility and imbecility of war in the \"Dictionnaire philosophique\" was a frequent favorite, as were his arguments that nations can only grow at the expense of others. Following the liberation of France from the Vichy regime in 1944, Voltaire's 250th birthday was celebrated in both France and the Soviet Union, honoring him as \"one of the most feared opponents\" of the Nazi collaborators and someone \"whose name symbolizes freedom of thought, and hatred of prejudice, superstition, and injustice.\"\n\nJorge Luis Borges stated that \"not to admire Voltaire is one of the many forms of stupidity\" and included his short fiction such as \"Micromégas\" in \"The Library of Babel\" and \"A Personal Library.\" Gustave Flaubert believed that France had erred gravely by not following the path forged by Voltaire instead of Rousseau. Most architects of modern America were adherents of Voltaire's views. According to Will Durant:\n\nVoltaire's junior contemporary Jean-Jacques Rousseau commented on how Voltaire's book \"Letters on the English\" played a great role in his intellectual development. Having written some literary works and also some music, in December 1745 Rousseau wrote a letter introducing himself to Voltaire, who was by then the most prominent literary figure in France, to which Voltaire replied with a polite response. Subsequently, when Rousseau sent Voltaire a copy of his book \"Discourse on Inequality\", Voltaire replied, noting his disagreement with the views expressed in the book:\nSubsequently, commenting on Rousseau's romantic novel \"Julie, or the New Heloise\", Voltaire stated: \nVoltaire speculated that the first half of \"Julie\" had been written in a brothel and the second half in a lunatic asylum. In his \"Lettres sur La Nouvelle Heloise\", written under a pseudonym, Voltaire offered criticism highlighting grammatical mistakes in the book: \nIn reviewing Rousseau's book \"Emile\" after its publication, Voltaire dismissed it as \"a hodgepodge of a silly wet nurse in four volumes, with forty pages against Christianity, among the boldest ever known.\" He expressed admiration for the section in this book titled \"Profession of Faith of the Savoyard Vicar\", calling it \"fifty good pages...it is regrettable that they should have been written by...such a knave.\" He went on to predict that \"Emile\" would be forgotten after a month.\n\nIn 1764, Rousseau published \"Lettres de la montagne\", containing nine letters on religion and politics. In the fifth letter he wondered why Voltaire had not been able to imbue the Genevan councilors, who frequently met him, \"with that spirit of tolerance which he preaches without cease, and of which he sometimes has need\". The letter continued with an imaginary speech delivered by Voltaire, imitating his literary style, in which he accepts authorship for the book \"Sermon of the Fifty\"—a book whose authorship Voltaire had repeatedly denied because it contained many heresies.\n\nIn 1772, when a priest sent Rousseau a pamphlet denouncing Voltaire, Rousseau responded with a defense of Voltaire: \nIn 1778, when Voltaire was given unprecedented honors at the Théâtre-Français, an acquaintance of Rousseau ridiculed the event. This was met by a sharp retort from Rousseau: \nOn 2 July 1778, Rousseau died one month after Voltaire's death. In October 1794, Rousseau's remains were moved to the Panthéon, where they were placed near the remains of Voltaire.\n\nLouis XVI, while incarcerated in the Temple, had remarked that Rousseau and Voltaire had \"destroyed France\", by which he meant his dynasty.\n\nVoltaire perceived the French bourgeoisie to be too small and ineffective, the aristocracy to be parasitic and corrupt, the commoners as ignorant and superstitious, and the Church as a static and oppressive force useful only on occasion as a counterbalance to the rapacity of kings, although all too often, even more rapacious itself. Voltaire distrusted democracy, which he saw as propagating the idiocy of the masses. Voltaire long thought only an enlightened monarch could bring about change, given the social structures of the time and the extremely high rates of illiteracy, and that it was in the king's rational interest to improve the education and welfare of his subjects. But his disappointments and disillusions with Frederick the Great changed his philosophy somewhat, and soon gave birth to one of his most enduring works, his novella \"Candide, ou l'Optimisme\" (\"Candide, or Optimism,\" 1759), which ends with a new conclusion: \"It is up to us to cultivate our garden.\" His most polemical and ferocious attacks on intolerance and religious persecutions indeed began to appear a few years later. \"Candide\" was also burned and Voltaire jokingly claimed the actual author was a certain 'Demad' in a letter, where he reaffirmed the main polemical stances of the text.\n\nHe is remembered and honored in France as a courageous polemicist who indefatigably fought for civil rights (as the right to a fair trial and freedom of religion) and who denounced the hypocrisies and injustices of the \"Ancien Régime\". The \"Ancien Régime\" involved an unfair balance of power and taxes between the three Estates: clergy and nobles on one side, the commoners and middle class, who were burdened with most of the taxes, on the other. He particularly had admiration for the ethics and government as exemplified by the Chinese philosopher Confucius.\n\nVoltaire is also known for many memorable aphorisms, such as \"Si Dieu n'existait pas, il faudrait l'inventer\" (\"If God did not exist, it would be necessary to invent him\"), contained in a verse epistle from 1768, addressed to the anonymous author of a controversial work on \"The Three Impostors\". But far from being the cynical remark it is often taken for, it was meant as a retort to atheistic opponents such as d'Holbach, Grimm, and others. He has had his detractors among his later colleagues. The Scottish Victorian writer Thomas Carlyle argued that \"Voltaire read history, not with the eye of devout seer or even critic, but through a pair of mere anti-catholic spectacles.\"\n\nThe town of Ferney, where Voltaire lived out the last 20 years of his life, was officially named Ferney-Voltaire in honor of its most famous resident in 1878. His \"château\" is a museum. Voltaire's library is preserved intact in the National Library of Russia at Saint Petersburg, Russia. In the Zurich of 1916, the theatre and performance group who would become the early avant-garde movement Dada named their theater The Cabaret Voltaire. A late-20th-century industrial music group then named themselves after the theater. Astronomers have bestowed his name to the Voltaire crater on Deimos and the asteroid 5676 Voltaire.\n\nVoltaire was also known to have been an advocate for coffee, as he was reported to have drunk it 50–72 times per day. It has been suggested that high amounts of caffeine acted as a mental stimulant to his creativity. His great-grand-niece was the mother of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, a Catholic philosopher and Jesuit priest. His book \"Candide\" was listed as one of The 100 Most Influential Books Ever Written, by Martin Seymour-Smith.\n\nIn the 1950s, the bibliographer and translator Theodore Besterman started to collect, transcribe and publish all of Voltaire's writings. He founded the Voltaire Institute and Museum in Geneva where he began publishing collected volumes of Voltaire's correspondence. On his death in 1976, he left his collection to the University of Oxford, where the Voltaire Foundation became established as a department. The Foundation has continued to publish the \"Complete Works of Voltaire\", a complete chronological series which is expected to reach completion in 2018, reaching around 200 volumes, fifty years after the series began. It also publishes the series \"Oxford University Studies in the Enlightenment\", begun by Bestermann as \"Studies on Voltaire and the Eighteenth Century\", which has reached more than 500 volumes.\n\n\nHistory\n\n\nVoltaire wrote between fifty and sixty plays, including a few unfinished ones. Among them are:\n\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n\nIn French\n\nPrimary sources\n\n"}
{"id": "15353235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15353235", "title": "Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind", "text": "Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind\n\nZen Mind, Beginner's Mind is a book of teachings by the late Shunryu Suzuki, a compilation of talks given to his satellite Zen center in Los Altos, California. Published in 1970 by Weatherhill, the book is not academic, but contains frank and direct transcriptions of Suzuki's talks recorded by his student Marian Derby. Trudy Dixon and Richard Baker (Baker was Suzuki's successor) edited the talks by choosing those most relevant, arranging them into chapters. According to some, it has become a spiritual classic, helping readers to steer clear from the trappings of intellectualism. Bodhin Kjolhede, Abbot of the Rochester Zen Center, writes that, together with Philip Kapleau's \"The Three Pillars of Zen\" (1965), it is one of the two most influential books on Zen in the west.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225424", "title": "Zugzwang", "text": "Zugzwang\n\nZugzwang (German for \"compulsion to move\", ) is a situation found in chess and other games wherein one player is put at a disadvantage because they must make a move when they would prefer to pass and not move. The fact that the player is compelled to move means that their position will become significantly weaker. A player is said to be \"in zugzwang\" when any possible move will worsen their position.\n\nThe term is also used in combinatorial game theory, where it means that it directly changes the outcome of the game from a win to a loss, but the term is used less precisely in games such as chess. Putting the opponent in zugzwang is a common way to help the superior side win a game, and in some cases, it is necessary in order to make the win possible.\n\nThe term \"zugzwang\" was used in German chess literature in 1858 or earlier, and the first known use of the term in English was by World Champion Emanuel Lasker in 1905. The concept of zugzwang was known to players many centuries before the term was coined, appearing in an endgame study published in 1604 by Alessandro Salvio, one of the first writers on the game, and in shatranj studies dating back to the early 9th century, over 1000 years before the first known use of the term.\n\nPositions with zugzwang occur fairly often in chess endgames, especially in king and pawn endgames. According to John Nunn, positions of reciprocal zugzwang are surprisingly important in the analysis of endgames.\nThe word comes from German \"Zug\" 'move' + \"Zwang\" 'compulsion', so that \"Zugzwang\" means 'being forced to make a move'. Originally the term was used interchangeably with the term \"zugpflicht\" 'obligation to make a move' as a general game rule. Games like chess and checkers have \"zugzwang\" (or \"zugpflicht\"): a player \"must\" always make a move on his turn even if this is to their disadvantage. Tabletop war games or role playing games do not: a player can simply decide to \"wait\" or \"do nothing\" on their turn. Over time, the term became especially associated with chess.\n\nAccording to chess historian Edward Winter, the term had been in use in German chess circles in the 19th century.Pages 353–358 of the September 1858 Deutsche Schachzeitung had an unsigned article \"Zugzwang, Zugwahl und Privilegien\". F. Amelung employed the terms Zugzwang, Tempozwang and Tempozugzwang on pages 257–259 of the September 1896 issue of the same magazine. When a perceived example of zugzwang occurred in the third game of the 1896–97 world championship match between Steinitz and Lasker, after 34...Rg8, the Deutsche Schachzeitung (December 1896, page 368) reported that \"White has died of zugzwang\".\n\nThe earliest known use of the term \"zugzwang\" in English was on page 166 of the February 1905 issue of \"Lasker's Chess Magazine\". The term did not become common in English-language chess sources until the 1930s, after the publication of the English translation of Nimzowitsch's \"My System\" in 1929.\n\nThe concept of zugzwang, if not the term, must have been known to players for many centuries. Zugzwang is required to win the elementary (and common) king and rook versus king endgame, and the king and rook (or differently-named pieces with the same powers) have been chess pieces since the earliest versions of the game.\nOther than basic checkmates, the earliest published use of zugzwang may be in this study by Zairab Katai, which was published sometime between 813 and 833, discussing shatranj. After\nputs Black in zugzwang, since 3...Kc4 4.Kg3 Kd4 5.Re1 and White wins.\n\nThe concept of zugzwang is also seen in the 1585 endgame study by Giulio Cesare Polerio, published in 1604 by Alessandro Salvio, one of the earliest writers on the game. The only way for White to win is 1.Ra1 Kxa1 2.Kc2, placing Black in zugzwang. The only legal move is 2...g5, whereupon White promotes a pawn first and then checkmates with 3.hxg5 h4 4.g6 h3 5.g7 h2 6.g8=Q h1=Q 7.Qg7#\n\nJoseph Bertin refers to zugzwang in \"The Noble Game of Chess\" (1735), wherein he documents 19 rules about chess play. His 18th rule is: \"To play well the latter end of a game, you must calculate who has the move, on which the game always depends.\"\n\nFrançois-André Danican Philidor wrote in 1777 of the position illustrated that after White plays 36.Kc3, Black \"is obliged to move his rook from his king, which gives you an opportunity of taking his rook by a double check [sic], or making him mate\". Lasker explicitly cited a mirror image of this position (White: king on f3, queen on h4; Black: king on g1, rook on g2) as an example of zugzwang in \"Lasker's Manual of Chess\". The British master George Walker analyzed a similar position in the same endgame, giving a maneuver that resulted in the superior side reaching the initial position, but now with the inferior side on move and in zugzwang. Walker wrote of the superior side's decisive move: \"throwing the move upon Black, in the initial position, and thereby winning\".\n\nPaul Morphy is credited with composing the position illustrated \"while still a young boy\". After 1.Ra6, Black is in zugzwang and must allow mate on the next move with 1...bxa6 2.b7# or 1...B (moves) 2.Rxa7#.\nThere are three types of chess positions:\nThe great majority of positions are of the first type. In chess literature, most writers call positions of the second type \"zugzwang\", and the third type \"reciprocal zugzwang\" or \"mutual zugzwang\". Some writers call the second type a \"squeeze\" and the third type \"zugzwang\".\n\nNormally in chess, having tempo is desirable because the player who is to move has the advantage of being able to choose a move that improves their situation. Zugzwang typically occurs when \"the player to move cannot do anything without making an important concession\".\nZugzwang most often occurs in the endgame when the number of pieces, and so the number of possible moves, is reduced, and the exact move chosen is often critical. The first diagram shows the simplest possible example of zugzwang. If it is White's move, they must either stalemate Black with 1.Kc6 or abandon the pawn, allowing 1...Kxc7 with a draw. If it is Black's move, the only legal move is 1...Kb7, which allows White to win with 2.Kd7 followed by queening the pawn on the next move.\n\nThe second diagram is another simple example. Black, on move, must allow White to play Kc5 or Ke5, when White wins one or more pawns and can advance his own pawn toward promotion. White, on move, must retreat his king, when Black is out of danger. The squares d4 and d6 are \"corresponding squares\". Whenever the white king is on d4 with White to move, the black king must be on d6 to prevent the advance of the white king.\n\nIn many cases, the player having the move can put the other player in zugzwang by using \"triangulation\". This often occurs in king and pawn endgames. Pieces other than the king can also triangulate to achieve zugzwang, such as in the Philidor position. Zugzwang is a mainstay of chess compositions and occurs frequently in endgame studies.\n\nSome zugzwang positions occurred in the second game of the 1971 candidates match between Bobby Fischer and Mark Taimanov. In the position in the diagram, Black is in zugzwang because he would rather not move, but he must: a king move would lose the knight, while a knight move would allow the passed pawn to advance. The game continued:\nand Black is again in zugzwang. The game ended shortly (because the pawn will slip through and promote):\n\nIn the position on the right, White has just gotten his king to a6, where it attacks the black pawn on b6, tying down the black king to defend it. White now needs to get his bishop to f7 or e8 to attack the pawn on g6. Play continued:\nNow the bishop is able to make a tempo move. It is able to move while still attacking the pawn on g6, and preventing the black king from moving to c6.\nand Black is in zugzwang. Knights are unable to lose a tempo, so moving the knight would allow the bishop to capture the pawns. The black king must give way.\nand White has a won position. Either one of White's pawns will promote or the white king will attack and win the black kingside pawns and a kingside pawn will promote. Black resigned seven moves later. Andy Soltis says that this is \"perhaps Fischer's most famous endgame\".\n\nThis position from a 1988 game between Vitaly Tseshkovsky and Glenn Flear at Wijk aan Zee shows an instance of \"zugzwang\" where the obligation to move makes the defense more difficult, but it does not mean the loss of the game. A draw by agreement was reached eleven moves later.\n\nA special case of zugzwang is \"reciprocal zugzwang\" or \"mutual zugzwang\", which is a position such that whoever is to move is in zugzwang. Studying positions of reciprocal zugzwang is in the analysis of endgames. A position of mutual zugzwang is closely related to a game with a Conway value of zero in game theory.\n\nIn a position with reciprocal zugzwang, only the player to move is actually in zugzwang. However, the player who is not in zugzwang must play carefully because one inaccurate move can cause him to be put in zugzwang. That is in contrast to regular zugzwang, because the superior side usually has a waiting move to put the opponent in zugzwang.\n\nThe diagram on the right shows a position of reciprocal zugzwang. If Black is to move, 1... Kd7 is forced, which loses because White will move 2. Kb7, promote the pawn, and win. If White is to move the result is a draw as White must either stalemate Black with 1. Kc6 or allow Black to the pawn. Since each side would be in zugzwang if it were his move, it is a reciprocal zugzwang.\n\nAn extreme type of reciprocal zugzwang, called \"trébuchet\", is shown in the diagram. It is also called a \"full-point mutual zugzwang\" because it will result in a loss for the player in zugzwang, resulting a full point for his opponent. Whoever is to move in this position must abandon his own pawn, thus allowing his opponent to capture it and proceed to promote the remaining pawn, resulting in an easily winnable position.\nCorresponding squares are squares of mutual zugzwang. When there is only one pair of corresponding squares, they are called \"mined squares\". A player will fall into zugzwang if they move their king onto the square and his opponent is able to move onto the corresponding square. In the diagram on the right, if either king moves onto the square marked with the dot of the same color, it falls into zugzwang if the other king moves into the mined square near them.\n\nZugzwang usually works in favor of the stronger side, but sometimes it aids the defense. In this position based on a game between Zoltán Varga and Peter Acs, it saves the game for the defense:\nReciprocal zugzwang.\nReciprocal zugzwang again.\nReciprocal zugzwang again.\nThis position is a draw and the players agreed to a draw a few moves later.\n\nAlex Angos notes that, \"As the number of pieces on the board increases, the probability for \"zugzwang\" to occur decreases.\" As such, zugzwang is very rarely seen in the middlegame.\n\nThe game Fritz Sämisch versus Aron Nimzowitsch, Copenhagen 1923, is often called the \"Immortal Zugzwang Game\". According to Nimzowitsch, writing in the \"Wiener Schachzeitung\" in 1925, this term originated in \"Danish chess circles\". Some consider the final position to be an extremely rare instance of zugzwang occurring in the middlegame. It ended with White resigning in the position in the diagram.\n\nWhite has a few pawn moves which do not lose material, but eventually he will have to move one of his pieces. If he plays 1.Rc1 or Rd1, then 1...Re2 traps White's queen; 1.Kh2 fails to 1...R5f3, also trapping the queen, since White cannot play 2.Bxf3 because the bishop is pinned to the king; 1.g4 runs into 1...R5f3 2.Bxf3? Rh2 mate. Angos analyzes 1.a3 a5 2.axb4 axb4 3.h4 Kh8 (waiting) 4.b3 Kg8 and White has run out of waiting moves and must lose material. Best in this line is 5.Nc3!? bxc3 6.bxc3, which just leaves Black with a serious positional advantage and an extra pawn. Other moves lose material in more obvious ways.\n\nHowever, since Black would win even without the zugzwang, it is debatable whether the position is true zugzwang. Even if White could pass his move he would still lose, albeit more slowly, after 1...R5f3 2.Bxf3 Rxf3, trapping the queen and thus winning queen and bishop for two rooks. Wolfgang Heidenfeld thus considers it a misnomer to call this a true zugzwang position. See also Immortal Zugzwang Game: Objections to the sobriquet.\n\nThis game between Wilhelm Steinitz versus Emanuel Lasker in the 1896–97 World Chess Championship, is an early example of zugzwang in the middlegame. After Lasker's 34...Re8–g8!, Steinitz had no moves, and resigned. White's bishop cannot move because that would allow the crushing ...Rg2+. The queen cannot move without abandoning either its defense of the bishop on g5 or of the g2 square, where it is preventing ...Qg2#. White's move 35.f6 loses the bishop: 35...Rxg5 36. f7 Rg2+, forcing mate. The move 35.Kg1 allows 35...Qh1+ 36.Kf2 Qg2+ followed by capturing the bishop. The rook cannot leave the first , as that would allow 35...Qh1#. Rook moves along the first rank other than 35.Rg1 allow 35...Qxf5, when 36.Bxh4 is impossible because of 36...Rg2+; for example, 35.Rd1 Qxf5 36.d5 Bd7, winning. That leaves only 35.Rg1, when Black wins with 35...Rxg5! 36.Qxg5 (36.Rxg5? Qh1#) Qd6+ 37.Rg3 hxg3+ 38.Qxg3 Be8 39.h4 Qxg3+ 40.Kxg3 b5! 41.axb5 a4! and Black queens first. Colin Crouch calls the final position, \"An even more perfect middlegame zugzwang than ... Sämisch–Nimzowitsch ... in the final position Black has no direct threats, and no clear plan to improve the already excellent positioning of his pieces, and yet any move by White loses instantly\".\nSoltis writes that his \"candidate for the ideal zugzwang game\" is the following game , Podgaets–Dvoretsky, USSR 1974: 1. d4 c5 2. d5 e5 3. e4 d6 4. Nc3 Be7 5. Nf3 Bg4 6. h3 Bxf3 7. Qxf3 Bg5! 8. Bb5+ Kf8! Black exchanges off his , but does not allow White to do the same. 9. Bxg5 Qxg5 10. h4 Qe7 11. Be2 h5 12. a4 g6 13. g3 Kg7 14. 0-0 Nh6 15. Nd1 Nd7 16. Ne3 Rhf8 17. a5 f5 18. exf5 e4! 19. Qg2 Nxf5 20. Nxf5+ Rxf5 21. a6 b6 22. g4? hxg4 23. Bxg4 Rf4 24. Rae1 Ne5! 25. Rxe4 Rxe4 26. Qxe4 Qxh4 27. Bf3 Rf8!! 28. Bh1 28.Qxh4? Nxf3+ and 29...Nxh4 leaves Black a piece ahead. 28... Ng4 29. Qg2 (first diagram) Rf3!! 30. c4 Kh6!! (second diagram) Now all of White's piece moves allow checkmate or ...Rxf2 with a crushing attack (e.g. 31.Qxf3 Qh2#; 31.Rb1 Rxf2 32.Qxg4 Qh2#). That leaves only moves of White's b-pawn, which Black can ignore, e.g. 31.b3 Kg7 32.b4 Kh6 33.bxc5 bxc5 and White has run out of moves. 0–1\n\nIn this 1959 game between future World Champion Bobby Fischer and Héctor Rossetto, 33.Bb3! puts Black in zugzwang. If Black moves the king, White plays Rb8, winning a piece (...Rxc7 Rxf8); if Black moves the rook, 33...Ra8 or Re8, then 34.c8=Q+ and the black rook will be lost after 35.Qxa8, 35.Qxe8 or 35.Rxe7+ (depending on Black's move); if Black moves the knight, Be6 will win Black's rook. That leaves only pawn moves, and they quickly run out. The game concluded:\n\nJonathan Rowson coined the term \"Zugzwang Lite\" to describe a situation, sometimes arising in symmetrical opening variations, where White's \"extra move\" is a burden. He cites as an example of this phenomenon in Hodgson versus Arkell at Newcastle 2001. The position at left arose after 1. c4 c5 2. g3 g6 3. Bg2 Bg7 4. Nc3 Nc6 5. a3 a6 6. Rb1 Rb8 7. b4 cxb4 8. axb4 b5 9. cxb5 axb5 (see diagram). Here Rowson remarks, Both sides want to push their d-pawn and play Bf4/...Bf5, but White has to go first so Black gets to play ...d5 before White can play d4. This doesn't matter much, but it already points to the challenge that White faces here; his most natural continuations allow Black to play the moves he wants to. I would therefore say that White is in 'Zugzwang Lite' and that he remains in this state for several moves. The game continued 10. Nf3 d5 11. d4 Nf6 12. Bf4 Rb6 13. 0-0 Bf5 14. Rb3 0-0 15. Ne5 Ne4 16. h3 h5!? 17. Kh2. The position is still almost symmetrical, and White can find nothing useful to do with his extra move. Rowson whimsically suggests 17.h4!?, forcing Black to be the one to break the symmetry. 17... Re8! Rowson notes that this is a useful waiting move, covering e7, which needs protection in some lines, and possibly supporting an eventual ...e5 (as Black in fact played on his 22nd move). White cannot copy it, since after 18.Re1? Nxf2 Black would win a pawn. After 18. Be3?! Nxe5! 19. dxe5 Rc6! Black seized the initiative and went on to win in 14 more moves.\nAnother instance of \"Zugzwang Lite\" occurred in Lajos Portisch versus Mikhail Tal, Candidates Match 1965, again from the Symmetrical Variation of the English Opening, after 1. Nf3 c5 2. c4 Nc6 3. Nc3 Nf6 4. g3 g6 5. Bg2 Bg7 6. 0-0 0-0 7. d3 a6 8. a3 Rb8 9. Rb1 b5 10. cxb5 axb5 11. b4 cxb4 12. axb4 d6 13. Bd2 Bd7 (see diagram). Soltis wrote, \"It's ridiculous to think Black's position is better. But Mikhail Tal said it is easier to play. By moving second he gets to see White's move and then decide whether to match it.\" 14. Qc1 Here, Soltis wrote that Black could maintain equality by keeping the symmetry: 14...Qc8 15.Bh6 Bh3. Instead, he plays to prove that White's queen is misplaced by breaking the symmetry. 14... Rc8! 15. Bh6 Nd4! Threatening 15...Nxe2+. 16. Nxd4 Bxh6 17. Qxh6 Rxc3 18. Qd2 Qc7 19. Rfc1 Rc8 Although the pawn structure is still symmetrical, Black's control of the gives him the advantage. Black ultimately reached an endgame two pawns up, but White managed to hold a draw in 83 moves. See First-move advantage in chess#Symmetrical openings for more details.\n\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
