{"id": "15001678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15001678", "title": "2007–08 Kenyan crisis", "text": "2007–08 Kenyan crisis\n\nThe 2007–08 Kenyan crisis was a political, economic, and humanitarian crisis that erupted in Kenya after former President Mwai Kibaki was declared the winner of the presidential election held on December 27, 2007. Supporters of Kibaki's opponent, Raila Odinga of the Orange Democratic Movement, alleged electoral manipulation. This was widely confirmed by international observers, as being perpetrated by both parties in the election.\n\nIn part due to the ethnic and geographic diversity of Kenyan politics, no singular narrative can explain the reaction of opposition supporters to the announcement of Kibaki's swearing-in, which was done on December 30, 2007 in the evening. In addition to staging several non-violent protests, opposition supporters went on a violent rampage killing Kikuyus. Raila Odinga encouraged supporters to engage in mass protests which he announced on local television and radio stations, most noticeably in Mombasa, Eldoret, Kericho, Kisumu, Nakuru and parts of Nairobi. Police shot hundreds of violent demonstrators, including a few in front of TV news cameras, causing more violence.\n\nTargeted ethnic violence (as opposed to violent protests) escalated and at first was directed mainly against Kikuyu people—the community of which Kibaki is a member—living outside their traditional settlement areas, especially in the Rift Valley Province. The violence started with the murder of over 50 unarmed Kikuyu women and children, some as young as a month old, by locking them in a church and burning them alive in Kiambaa village near Eldoret, on New Year's Day. Tensions in the Rift Valley have caused violence in several previous Kenyan elections, most notably in the 1992 Kenyan Elections. This prompted the Kikuyu to start defending themselves which forced the Luos and Kalenjins to stop the killings of the Kikuyus.\n\nIn Mombasa, the Kenyan coastal residents took to the streets to protest the electoral manipulations and support their preferred candidate, Odinga. Tensions rose as the landless indigenous Coastal communities felt this was a time to avenge the grabbing of their land by mainly up–country Kikuyu. Looters also struck a number of stores in Mombasa. The slums of Nairobi saw some of the worst violence, some of it ethnically motivated, some expression of outrage at extreme poverty, and some the actions of criminal gangs. The violence continued sporadically for several months, particularly in the Rift Valley.\n\nFormer UN Secretary General Kofi Annan arrived in the country about a month after the election and successfully brought the two sides to the negotiating table. On February 28, 2008, Kibaki and Odinga signed a power-sharing agreement called the National Accord and Reconciliation Act 2008, which established the office of the Prime Minister and created a coalition government. The power-sharing Cabinet, headed by Odinga as Prime Minister, was eventually named on April 13, after lengthy negotiations over its composition; it was sworn in on April 17.\n\nThe post-election demonstration and violence stemmed from a mixture of motives. Some included:\n\nReports by international observers about manipulations and admissions by members of the Electoral Commission of Kenya that their staff provided them with incorrect figures have further fuelled this anger. The violence has been directed mainly against Kikuyus, belonging to the same ethnic group as Kibaki.\n\nThe violence against Kikuyus occurred all over the country but was higher in areas like the Nairobi slums, Nyanza Province, the Rift Valley, and the Coast, where opposition against Kibaki is particularly strong. The ethnically diverse Nairobi slums have also seen violence by Kikuyu-dominated groups—amongst them the infamous Mungiki—against neighbours hailing from western parts of Kenya.\n\nA BBC reporter saw 40 bodies with gunshot wounds in a mortuary in Kisumu, which was the opposition's main base. A witness also told them that armed police shot protesters at a rally. There were running battles in the Nairobi slums. The local KTN television station said that 124 people died nationwide in the first two days of unrest.\n\nOn December 31, 2007, police reported that 40 people were killed in Nairobi and 53 in Kisumu, a major support base for Odinga. Four bodies were discovered in Mathare, in Nairobi, seven people were killed in Nakuru, and four people found dead in a village near Kapsabet.\n\nEarly results tallied indicated that Odinga held a strong lead on December 28, the day after the election, and the ODM declared victory for Odinga on December 29; however, as more results were announced on the same day, the gap between the two candidates narrowed, and with almost 90% of the votes counted (180 out of 210 constituencies), Odinga's lead shrank to only 38,000 votes. At a press conference on the morning of December 30, Odinga accused the government of fraud, urged Kibaki to concede defeat, and called for a recount. He said that the ODM would not take the matter to the courts claiming that the courts were controlled by Kibaki. The Electoral Commission declared Kibaki the winner on December 30, placing him ahead of Odinga by about 232,000 votes. According to Odinga, as many as 300,000 votes for Kibaki were falsely included in his total. The Chairman of the Electoral Commission, Samuel Kivuitu, said that while irregularities affecting the entire exercise did occur, they were a matter for the courts, not the Electoral Commission. Supporters of Kibaki, meanwhile, said that discrepancies had actually worked in Odinga's favor, arguing that discrepancies between polling station tallies and Electoral Commission results meant that Odinga had gained 53,000 votes while Kibaki had lost 106,000. Following the Commission's declaration of his victory, Kibaki was promptly sworn in for his second term late in the evening on the same day, calling for the \"verdict of the people\" to be respected and for \"healing and reconciliation\" to begin.\n\nKivuitu said that there were some problems in the vote counting, noting that in one constituency the reported turnout rate was 115%. According to the European Union's head observer in the election, Alexander Graf Lambsdorff, the election was \"flawed\" and the Electoral Commission failed to establish \"the credibility of the tallying process to the satisfaction of all parties and candidates\"; he said that in some places EU observers were not allowed to see vote tallies until the Electoral Commission announced them: \"the whole point...is to verify that the results are the same\". The United Kingdom's Foreign Secretary, David Miliband, said that his country had \"real concerns\" about the election. While the United States initially congratulated Kibaki and called for the results to be respected, it also expressed concern, and on January 2, 2008 a spokesman for the U.S. State Department declined to confirm U.S. recognition of Kibaki's victory.In a telex from then US Embassy in Nairobi to the State Department in Washington DC [released in July 2012], US Ambassador Michael Ranneberger set out five scenarios as to who really won the election. He wrote, ‘In all cases the margin of victory for either side is slim and ultimately unknowable’. The telex also noted that there was ‘evidence of rigging on both sides’and Kivuitu said on January 2, that he had been pressured by PNU and ODM-K (Kibaki's and Kalonzo Musyoka's parties) into announcing the results without delay, and he claimed that he did not personally know who really won.\n\nWithin minutes of the Commission's declaration of Kibaki as victor, tribe-based rioting and violence, primarily directed against Kikuyus, broke out across Kenya, and the government suspended live television coverage for some days. Odinga alleged that \"a clique of people around Kibaki\" sought to rig the election, but said that democracy \"is unstoppable like the flow of the Nile\". The ODM announced its intention to hold a ceremony on December 31, in which Odinga would be declared the \"people's president\", but police said that this could incite violence and that Odinga could be arrested if the ceremony occurred. Odinga then delayed this, but called for a million-strong rally on January 3, 2008 and for his supporters to wear black armbands as a show of mourning.\n\nOdinga said that the ODM would not negotiate with Kibaki unless he resigned, because to do so would, according to Odinga, mean acknowledging Kibaki's legitimacy; he also said that, unless stopped, the \"ruling clique\" could rig the next election in five years as well, and that he was not afraid of being arrested, having been jailed many times in the past. For his part, Kibaki emphasized the importance of peace, stability, and tolerance in his 2008 New Year's message, speaking of the election as a concluded event and warning that law-breakers would be punished.\n\nOdinga said that the million-strong rally in his support planned for January 3 would take place in spite of a government ban, and he accused the government of being directly responsible for \"genocide\". Electoral Commission Chairman Kivuitu said on January 1, that he had been pressured by the PNU and ODM-Kenya to announce results immediately, despite the urgings of Western ambassadors to delay the results so that concerns about irregularities could be addressed.\n\nOn January 3, opposition supporters attempted to gather for the planned rally in Uhuru Park, but police fought them off with tear gas and water cannons. Another attempt to hold the rally was planned for January 4. Also on January 3, Kibaki said that he was willing to engage in dialogue \"once the country is calm\", and he described the continuing violence as \"senseless\", while Attorney General Amos Wako called for a recount, an investigation into the election, and the formation of a national unity government, saying that the situation was \"quickly degenerating into a catastrophe of unimaginable proportions\". Finance Minister Amos Kimunya said that if the ODM did not allege fraud, that would make it easier for the two sides to talk; Kimunya also said that the government wanted to mediate through Kenyan elders and did not want international mediation involving the African Union. KANU's Uhuru Kenyatta said that it might be possible for the two sides to work together, but that the ODM's position that Kibaki should resign before any talks took place was unacceptable, because then there would be \"no government\".\n\nOn January 4, ODM Secretary-General Anyang Nyongo called for a new presidential election to be held, without the involvement of the Electoral Commission. Government spokesman Alfred Mutua said that this would be possible only if it was decided by the courts.\n\nAfter meeting U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Jendayi Frazer, Kibaki said on January 5, that he was willing to form a national unity government, but Odinga, who also met with Frazer, rejected this, saying that Kibaki \"should not come to the negotiating table as the president\" and calling for the creation of a transitional government leading to a new election in three to six months. However, after Odinga met with Frazer for a second time shortly afterward, Odinga's spokesman said that the ODM would not demand that Kibaki resign or admit defeat if he accepted an international mediator. At about the same time, while violence continued, it was reported to be decreasing in Nairobi.\n\nOn January 6, Odinga called for rallies to be held on January 8, despite the government's insistence that the rallies would be illegal. Odinga's spokesman said that while the ODM ruled out a government of national unity, it could discuss \"a coalition government with genuine power sharing\" (which it said would leave less power for Kibaki than would be the case in a national unity government) or establishing an interim government to hold a new election. Odinga subsequently cancelled the rallies planned for January 8, saying that the mediation process, facilitated by Ghanaian President and African Union Chairman John Kufuor, was about to begin, with Kibaki having officially invited Kufuor, and that negotiations needed to take place in a peaceful atmosphere. Odinga said that he anticipated direct talks involving both himself and Kibaki, with Kufuor's participation. Foreign Minister Raphael Tuju said that by calling off the rallies, Odinga opened the way for negotiation and reconciliation.\n\nThere exist doubts that Kibaki really invited Kufuor (as opposed to him having come as a result of international concern for the worsening situation in Kenya). PNU members of parliament, newly appointed cabinet ministers and even the government spokesman, Dr Alfred Mutua, are known to have said Kufuor \"was coming to take tea\", and not to \"negotiate with the warring factions regarding the elections\"; this was captured both on TV and print media. In addition, the PNU side was actively downplaying the seriousness of the post-election crisis, saying that this was a local problem that would be dealt with locally. It even urged the displaced people at various police stations and camps to 'return home' and generally tried to dissuade international attention to the crisis. It is also worth noting that there were conflicting reports from Ghanaian weblogs about President Kufuor's visit. Some weblogs said he was not going to travel to Kenya, since the government did not view him as a welcome visitor, others saying he was required by his official responsibility as AU chairman to try to resolve the crisis in Kenya. Just before Kufuor's travel to Kenya, Moses Wetang'ula, the new Minister for Foreign Affairs travelled to Ghana to 'brief Mr. Kufuor' on the situation in Kenya, ahead of his trip to Kenya. These actions were perceived to be an indication of bad faith on the part of Kibaki and his team, and they preempted their bias against the talks between President Kibaki (and his PNU side) and Raila (and his ODM side). There were also indications that PNU did not want the discussion to be mediated by an outsider.\n\nOdinga refused to accept Kibaki's offer to hold talks unless they took place as part of international mediation, saying that without having Kufuor present to mediate the talks would be a \"sideshow\" and a \"public relations gimmick\", and he claimed that Kibaki was using the offer of talks between himself and Odinga to divert attention from Kufuor. Meanwhile, Frazer said on January 7, that there had been rigging in the election, but she said that both sides could have engaged in rigging. She also previously said that Kenyans had \"been cheated by their political leadership and their institutions\".\n\nKibaki appointed 17 ministers as part of a new Cabinet on January 8, saying that the rest of the Cabinet would be appointed later. The Cabinet included the ODM-K's Kalonzo Musyoka as Vice-President and Minister of Home Affairs and KANU's Uhuru Kenyatta as Minister of Local Government. Announcing these appointments, Kibaki said: \"I have considered the importance of keeping the country united, peaceful and prosperous and a strong broad-based leadership.\" The ODM's Nyongo said that this Cabinet, in which the ODM was not included, was illegitimate because Kibaki did not win the election. Renewed outbreaks of violence were reported following Kibaki's announcement. With almost half of the Cabinet yet to be named, it was suggested that Kibaki intended to leave the remaining ministries open so that they would be available for the ODM following the negotiations; however, it was also noted that the most important ministries were already filled. Musalia Mudavadi, a leading figure in the ODM, denounced Kibaki's announcement as being intended only to sabotage mediation with Kufuor. The \"Daily Nation\" said that Kibaki's move would \"be seen as a sign of bad faith\" and that it could \"poison the atmosphere\". U.S. State Department spokesman Sean McCormack said that it appeared Kibaki was setting up a \"fait accompli\", that the U.S. was \"disappointed\" by the move, and that it had \"expressed its displeasure\".\n\nOn January 9, Kufuor met separately with Kibaki and Odinga. Government statements on that day emphasized Kibaki's commitment to dialogue and said that he had \"already initiated a process of dialogue with other Kenyan leaders\". Kibaki also gave a speech in which he said that the vote was concluded, that it was impossible to change the outcome, and that any complaints should be handled through the courts. The two sides agreed to \"an immediate cessation of violence as well as any acts which may be detrimental to finding a peaceful solution to the ongoing crisis\", but the talks otherwise failed when, according to Nyongo, Kibaki refused to sign an agreement (which was already signed by ODM representatives) presented to him by Kufuor that would have provided for an interim coalition government and an inquiry into the Electoral Commission; the government, however, blamed Odinga for the failure of the talks, saying that he was not responsive to Kibaki's offer of dialogue. Kufuor left Kenya on January 10, saying that both parties had agreed to continue talks together with former United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan and \"a panel of eminent African personalities\"; Annan's office subsequently said that he would lead future talks but that he was not likely to go to Kenya before January 15. Kibaki's new Cabinet ministers were sworn in on January 10.\n\nOn January 11, the ODM called for mass rallies to be held in about 30 places in the following week; the police said that the rallies were banned. Nyongo also called for international sanctions against Kibaki's government. On January 12, the EU said that there could not be \"business as usual in Kenya\" without a compromise and a solution to the dispute, and Frazer also said that the US could not conduct \"business as usual in Kenya\" under the circumstances, saying that Kibaki and Odinga should meet in person, \"without preconditions\", and that both sides \"should acknowledge serious irregularities in the vote tallying which made it impossible to determine with certainty the final result\". In addition, she called for the lifting of the bans on live television coverage and rallies.\n\nRoads and Public Works Minister John Michuki said on January 14, that Annan was not coming at the government's invitation and reiterated the claim that Kibaki won the election. EU Development Commissioner Louis Michel said on the same day that EU aid to Kenya could be reduced as a result of the election. Parliament opened on January 15, and Annan was expected to arrive on the same day. ODM Members of Parliament said that they intended to sit on the government side in Parliament, asserting their claim to have won the election. They took the opposition side, however, with Odinga taking the Leader of the Opposition's seat. Although the ODM wanted an open ballot instead of a secret one in the election for the Speaker of Parliament, the government side opposed this and the vote was conducted through secret ballot. In the first round of voting, the ODM's candidate for Speaker, Kenneth Marende, received 104 votes and the government's candidate, Francis ole Kaparo, received 99 votes; in the second round Marende received 104 votes and Kaparo received 102. Although a two-thirds majority was required in the first two rounds, subsequently only a simple majority was required, and Marende was elected in the third round with 105 votes against 101 for Kaparo. Meanwhile, it was announced that Annan's visit would be delayed for a few days because he had fallen ill with the flu. In Nairobi threats and killings were carried out against the Asian and white Kenyan minorities by the banned ethnic sect Mungiki, which prompted a temporary exodus of the minority groups, until their protection was guaranteed by the government, prompting further economic hardship in the country.\n\nThe ODM's planned protests, intended to last for three days, began on January 16. Police met the protests with force and prevented them from reaching Uhuru Park in Nairobi; protests also took place in other parts of the country, including Kisumu and Eldoret. At least two people were reported killed in Kisumu as police used live ammunition against the protesters, along with tear gas. Odinga, in an interview with BBC's \"HARDtalk\", responded to Justice Minister Martha Karua's earlier claim that the ODM had planned \"ethnic cleansing\" by saying that her accusation was \"outrageous\" and that the violence perpetrated by his supporters was a reaction to the actions of the police, who he said had been ordered to shoot \"members of certain ethnic communities\". The protests continued on January 17, with police continuing to use force against them. Government spokesman Alfred Mutua said that the government would not be swayed by the threats of development partners to withdraw aid. A train was looted in Kibera by residents due to shortages caused by the crisis. Odinga alleged that police killed seven people in Nairobi, while the police spokesman, Eric Kiraithe, said that the police were acting lawfully and were showing restraint because the protesters were being \"used by politicians\". The ODM said that after the last day of protest on January 18, it would focus on boycotting companies controlled by Kibaki's allies. By January 18, at least 22 people were reported to have been killed in the three-day protests, with the last day seeing the most deaths. The protests were considered to be substantially diminished in strength compared to those in late December. On January 19, despite the ODM's earlier announcement that it would cease protests, it said that protests would resume on January 24.\n\nFurther violence in Nairobi and the Rift Valley followed the protests. On January 21, Minister of State for Internal Security George Saitoti warned against further protests, saying that they would only be \"an opportunity for criminals to loot and commit other crimes\" and that \"illegal acts will be dealt with accordingly\". The government also said in reference to the opposition's planned boycott that it was illegal to \"sabotage\" businesses. The businesses targeted for the boycott included Equity Bank, Brookside Dairies, CityHoppa, and Kenya Bus; it was speculated that the boycott would not have a substantial impact and that many Kenyans would find it too impractical to observe. Foreign Minister Moses Wetangula, in reaction to criticism from the United Kingdom, summoned the UK's High Commissioner to complain, and he said that \"our elections don't need a stamp of authority from the House of Commons\". Annan arrived in Kenya on January 22.\n\nOn January 23, the ODM held a memorial service in Nairobi for victims of the violence, at which Odinga said that tribes should not fight because \"this is a war between the people of Kenya and a very small bloodthirsty clique clinging to power\". Meanwhile, police fired tear gas at some of his supporters outside; some tear gas affected the mourning service, dispersing it. The state-owned telecommunications building was attacked and set on fire. On the same day, Kibaki and Odinga met separately with Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, and according to Museveni's press secretary an agreement was reached in principle to establish a judicial commission that would investigate the accusations of vote rigging; however, the two sides disagreed as to whether the government alone should appoint the members of the commission. Museveni was also said to have proposed a power-sharing deal, which was rejected by the government on the grounds that it was unwilling to share power with the ODM due to the latter's alleged responsibility for the killing of innocent people. Annan also met with Odinga, and the latter agreed to cancel the protests that were to have been held the next day.\n\nKibaki and Odinga met for the first time since the crisis began on January 24, together with Annan. Annan called the meeting \"very encouraging\", saying that it represented \"the first steps towards a peaceful solution of the problem\". Kibaki and Odinga both said after the meeting that they were working towards a solution and urged the people to be peaceful. On January 25, Odinga said in an interview that a power-sharing deal was out of the question, and that the only possibilities acceptable to him were that Kibaki resign or that a new election be held. Responding to a claim by Human Rights Watch that ODM leaders were orchestrating violence, he said that the people were reacting spontaneously. As violence continued in the Rift Valley, Annan asked both sides to designate negotiators by January 29.\n\nMeanwhile, serious violence broke out in Nakuru on January 24–25, apparently as a reaction to Kibaki describing himself as the \"duly elected president\" after meeting in person with Odinga. Kikuyus were attacked and a number of buildings were set on fire, along with Nakuru's only fire engine; at least 12 deaths were reported. Another town, Total Station, was half-destroyed in violence between Kikuyus and Kalenjin, with at least two deaths reported, and as many as 50,000 people fled from violence near Molo. By January 27, at least 55 people had been killed in Nakuru, along with at least five in Kaptembwa and Sewage, two slums near Nakuru, while at least nine deaths were reported in Naivasha, where Kikuyus set Luo homes on fire. By January 28, at least 64 people had been killed in Nakuru and at least 22 in Naivasha; 19 of the deaths in Naivasha occurred when Kikuyus set fire to a place where Luos had fled for safety. ODM chairperson Henry Kosgei accused the government of facilitating the killing in Nakuru by imposing a curfew, which he said was used \"to keep some groups indoors to be killed\", on January 28.\n\nMugabe Were, an ODM Member of Parliament, was shot and killed early on January 29, 2008. Renewed protests and violence followed his death. Addressing the National Assembly before beginning talks, Annan called for an end to the \"downward spiral into chaos that is threatening this beautiful country.\" The talks then began, although they were delayed by 90 minutes due to disputed seating arrangements. Annan said that resolution of short-term issues might occur in four weeks, although he thought deeper talks might continue for a year.\n\nAnother ODM MP, David Kimutai Too, was shot and killed by a policeman in Eldoret on January 31, 2008. Police said the killing was related to a love triangle involving him, the officer who shot him, and a female officer, but the ODM called it an assassination, accusing the government of seeking to reduce the number of ODM Members of Parliament, and protests and violence broke out. The talks were postponed until the next day due to the killing.\n\nUN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon arrived in Kenya for a visit to assist the talks on February \n1. During the same day, Annan announced that the two rival leaders had agreed on an agenda for peace talks, which included both short-term and long-term goals. The talks would last a month and would include the topics of ending the violence, the humanitarian situation, resolving the political crisis, and land and historical injustices. Annan said that he believed the first three of these four points could be resolved within seven to 15 days, and he said that an agreement had been reached on 18 measures to end the violence, including the demobilization of gangs and ceasing speeches and text messages that incite hatred and violence. Violence nevertheless continued; on the next day at least 20 people were reported to have been killed since the agreement. On February 3, Odinga called for African Union peacekeepers to be sent to Kenya.\n\nSouth Africa's Cyril Ramaphosa was unanimously chosen by Annan's team as chief mediator to lead long-term talks, but the government had concerns about Ramaphosa's involvement, saying that he and Odinga had business links. Ramaphosa consequently withdrew from the talks and Annan accepted his withdrawal on February 4. Odinga said on the same day that the ODM would withdraw from the talks if a deal was not reached, and he said that his party wanted a new presidential election to be held within three months, with a new electoral commission and the same voter register. The alternative possibility of a transitional coalition government, in which a new position of Prime Minister would be created for Odinga and Kibaki's power would be reduced, was something Odinga said he could consider, although it was not the option he preferred.\n\nOpposing plans for a meeting of foreign ministers from the countries of the East African Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) in Kenya, Nyongo said that the ODM would hold protests if the meeting went ahead, believing that the meeting would be a means to legitimize Kibaki's government. Annan was critical of this threat, saying that \"provocative statements outside negotiations\" were supposed to be avoided. The government subsequently said that the meeting would not officially be considered an IGAD meeting, and the ODM called off the protests on February 6.\n\nOn February 7, the two sides remained deeply divided in talks, although they agreed that there should not be a recount of votes. Annan said that he was \"totally opposed to a re-election in this climate\", referring to the persistent violence. Meanwhile, the United Nations Security Council called for peaceful resolution of the dispute through negotiations, the United States imposed a travel ban on ten unnamed Kenyans (a move that was praised by Kibaki's government), and a policeman, Edward Kirui, was arrested for allegedly shooting two protesters to death in Kisumu on January 16.\n\nProgress in the talks was reported on February 8, with Annan saying that both sides had agreed on the need for a political settlement and that he hoped talks on point three (the resolution of the political crisis) could be concluded early in the next week. The ODM's William Ruto said that although there was progress, a solution had still not been reached, and he denied that a national unity government had been agreed upon; Mutula Kilonzo, a negotiator for the government, reported \"excellent\" progress. Saitoti, the Internal Security Minister, announced the end of the ban on rallies on the same day due to improved security, but said that rallies must be held only for peaceful purposes.\n\nDespite the reported progress and his earlier adoption of a more conciliatory tone, Odinga returned to a hard-line stance on February 9, repeating his earlier demand that Kibaki should either resign or a new election should be held, and he said that he would not compromise on that point. Speaking before the National Assembly on February 12, Annan said that both sides in the talks had agreed to set up \"an independent review committee that will be mandated to investigate all aspects of the 2007 presidential election\". He also said that both sides in the National Assembly would have to work together to pass legislation needed to resolve the crisis. On the same day, as talks approached a potential agreement, talks were moved to a secret location, with Annan requesting a \"complete news blackout\" and asking participants in the talks to not disclose what was under discussion. Ruto said that the ODM had proposed forming a government in which the two sides would share power for two years before a new election. Although Annan suggested that the two sides had agreed to a two-year power-sharing transitional government, the government objected, with the Justice Minister, Martha Karua, saying that this suggestion had misrepresented and undermined the government's position. On February 13, the mediators said in a statement that Annan had only expressed his own perspective and that he had not meant to suggest that the two sides had formally agreed on the proposal.\n\nAs talks adjourned on February 14, scheduled to resume the following week, government negotiator Kilonzo said that an agreement had been reached to restart the process of writing a new constitution after it had stalled following the failure of the 2005 constitutional referendum. On February 15, Annan said that the two sides had agreed to a range of reforms, including the improvement of electoral laws and human rights, as well as a review of the constitution, although they had yet to agree upon the composition of a power-sharing government. It was reported that the government side wanted Kibaki to retain strong executive powers, while the opposition wanted Odinga to have extensive powers in a new position of Prime Minister. According to Annan, they were about to take \"the last difficult and frightening step\" to conclude a deal, and he said that he intended to remain in Kenya until a new government was in place, by which time he thought the process would be \"irreversible\". The commission charged with reviewing the election was to be established by March 15, with a report to follow within three to six months.\n\nU.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice arrived in Kenya to support the talks on February 18. Meanwhile, Foreign Minister Wetangula said that help was welcome but he stressed that ultimately the problem had to be solved by Kenyans and that no one should make the \"mistake of putting a gun to anybody's head and saying 'either/or'\" in an attempt to force a solution. Rice met with Kibaki, Odinga, and Annan, and she emphasized the importance of reaching a settlement, saying that one should have already been in place; however, she also said that the U.S. was not trying to \"dictate a solution to Kenyans\".\n\nOn February 19, Kibaki said that, while he was willing to share power in the government, an agreement should be made in the context of the existing constitution. Nyongo then called for the National Assembly to be summoned within a week \"to enact the necessary changes in the constitution to implement these mediation proposals\", warning that the ODM would otherwise resume protests. On February 21, Mutula Kilonzo said that the government side had accepted \"the creation of the post of a non-executive prime minister with substantial responsibilities\", but the opposition wanted the prime minister to be a head of government with executive powers. Nyongo said that he thought an agreement would be reached by the next day.\n\nOn February 21, East African Community Secretary-General Juma Mwapachu said that the crisis was having a negative effect on the regional economy. Speaking in Nairobi on February 22, newly elected Chairman of the African Union Commission Jean Ping said it was hoped that an agreement would be reached by the next week.\n\nAn impasse was reached on February 25, 2008. While both parties agreed to the creation of the post of prime minister, they disagreed about the powers the newly created post should have, over government posts and over a possible election in case the coalition should split. Annan declared the talks suspended on February 26, saying that they had \"not broken down\" but that the leaders needed to \"become directly engaged in these talks\". Mutula Kilonzo said that media reports of supposed deals had caused problems and complained of unfair pressure. The ODM's Mudavadi expressed frustration at the situation.\n\nJakaya Kikwete, the President of Tanzania and Chairman of the African Union, arrived in Kenya on February 27, to assist in the talks. On the same day, Odinga said that the ODM had decided not to resume protests as planned on February 28, expressing continued commitment to the talks.\n\nOn February 28, Kibaki and Odinga signed the agreement meant to end the crisis at a ceremony in Nairobi; Annan said that the agreement was to be known as the National Accord and Reconciliation Act. The two leaders agreed to form a coalition government, with Odinga set to receive the new position of Prime Minister, in which capacity he is to \"coordinate and supervise government affairs\"; it remained unclear whether, as Prime Minister, he could still be overruled by Kibaki. According to the agreement, the Prime Minister must be an elected member of the National Assembly as well as the parliamentary leader of the party or coalition holding a majority of seats in the National Assembly. The agreement also provides for two Deputy Prime Ministers, one for each of the two parties, while the allotment of Cabinet portfolios is to reflect the relative strength of the respective parties in the National Assembly. The Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Ministers can only be removed from their positions if they lose a no-confidence vote in the National Assembly. Kibaki said that he would reconvene the National Assembly on March 6, so that it could make the constitutional changes needed in order to implement the agreement.\n\nAnnan left Kenya on March 2, leaving Oluyemi Adeniji, a former Nigerian Foreign Minister, to lead talks on remaining issues, such as land, political reforms, and the uneven distribution of wealth between various ethnic groups. On 3, March 13, people were killed in an attack near Mount Elgon that was attributed by police to the Sabaot Land Defence Force. Kibaki and Odinga met again on March 4, as part of the follow-up negotiations. Odinga said that this meeting was \"very productive\". On March 6, rights groups including Reporters Without Borders stated that the Kenyan media played a positive role during the violence despite being inexperienced with such situations.\n\nSpeaking in the National Assembly when it convened on March 6, Kibaki urged it to quickly pass the legislation required to implement the power-sharing agreement; he said that the people were watching and that they wanted to see \"pragmatic solutions, not ideological posturing\". He named four bills that the National Assembly needed to pass: the National Accord and Reconciliation Bill, a bill amending the constitution, a bill establishing the truth, justice and reconciliation commission, and a bill dealing with ethnic issues.\n\nOn March 9–10, the army attacked the Sabaot Land Defence Force near Mount Elgon; this attack included aerial bombardment. 30,000 people were reported to have fled from the army's attack, although this number was disputed and the army said that it was \"not intimidating or harassing residents\".\n\nOn March 10, Francis Muthaura, the head of the public service, stirred controversy by saying that Kibaki would remain both head of state and head of government and that Odinga would only rank third in the government, after Kibaki and Vice-President Musyoka. Government negotiator Kilonzo and Foreign Minister Wetangula backed this interpretation of the agreement, with the latter saying that \"we are not setting up a government within a government\". The ODM, however, angrily rejected Muthaura's interpretation. William Ruto said that \"Kenyans should treat Mr Muthaura's statement with the contempt it deserves\" and that it was \"uncalled for, unnecessary and contemptuous of the agreement\". ODM spokesman Salim Lome said that it was unacceptable to have Odinga ranking third, as \"a minor hanger-on\", and that the ODM would never have agreed to such an arrangement.\n\nOn March 11, a parliamentary committee made a request for the bills implementing the agreement to be fast-tracked, which would provide for them to be considered within five days, rather than two weeks. The National Assembly passed two bills implementing the agreement on March 18. The first of these was the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, which passed unanimously with 200 votes in favor; this constitutionally established the posts of Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. The amendment was followed by a law providing for those posts in a new government and detailing the terms of the power-sharing arrangement. Kibaki signed the bills into law a few hours later. He said that he was \"now confident a permanent solution to the crisis will be achieved\" and called for the drafting of a new constitution; meanwhile, Odinga called for a \"national ethnic conference where we will have representatives from all the 42 tribes in the country come together to discuss openly how we want to lead this country\".\n\nAs part of consultations on the composition of the new Cabinet, the ODM proposed a Cabinet with 34 members (twice the number in the partial Cabinet named by Kibaki in January), while the government proposed a Cabinet with 44 members. On April 1, a protest of about 100 people was held in Nairobi against these proposals on the grounds that it was unaffordable to have so many ministers and that having them would not serve a constructive purpose; the protesters demanded that the Cabinet be limited to no more than 24 members. This protest was broken up by police with tear gas. In a statement on April 2, Annan expressed concerns about the length of time that it was taking to name a new Cabinet. He urged Kibaki and Odinga to put the national interest first, conclude consultations, and name a Cabinet with an equal division of power in line with the agreement.\n\nOn April 3, the two sides announced that they had reached an agreement on the size and composition of the Cabinet. According to a statement from Kibaki's office, the new Cabinet would have 40 ministers, would be announced on April 6, and would be sworn in on April 12. This Cabinet would be the largest in Kenya's history, and the announcement of its size was greeted with substantial dissatisfaction among the people, with many believing a 40-member Cabinet to be wasteful, unnecessary, and intended merely to provide additional jobs with which to reward politicians. The government argued that the large size of the Cabinet was needed in order for it to be properly inclusive. Alfred Mutua, the government spokesman, said that \"there is no price that is too high for our country to ensure peace, harmony and reconciliation, healing and stability that will spur and grow the economy and create even more wealth\", and he suggested that the cost would not be as great as anticipated because \"most of the new ministries are subdivided from formerly existing ministries and therefore the budget and members of staff for those new ministries already exist.\"\n\nOn April 5, the day before the Cabinet was to be announced, the ODM said that the announcement had been delayed because there was still disagreement on the allotment of ministerial portfolios. The disagreement reportedly hinged on the particularly important portfolios of finance, local government, energy, and internal security. According to the government, the finance, defence, foreign affairs, and justice portfolios were to go to Kibaki's party, the PNU, while the ODM was to receive the roads, public works, tourism, and agriculture portfolios. Mutua said that Odinga had not submitted his list of proposed ministers to Kibaki, and he said that Kibaki had invited Odinga for talks on the morning of April 6. Kibaki and Odinga accordingly met, and afterwards they said in a joint statement that they had made \"substantial progress\" and that they expected an agreement to be reached in further talks on April 7. However, on April 8, the talks were suspended due to the continued disagreement; according to Nyongo, they were suspended \"until [the PNU] fully recognises the 50/50 power-sharing arrangement and the principle of portfolio balance\". Odinga said that he had received a letter from the PNU, which asserted that \"the constitution grants the president exclusive executive powers to run his country on his own and ... his powers supersede the provisions of the accord\". Meanwhile, a protest in Kibera was broken up by police with tear gas; this was the largest protest to occur since the agreement was signed.\n\nIt was reported on April 12, that Kibaki and Odinga had reached an agreement on the Cabinet and that it would be announced on the next day. Accordingly, the Cabinet, with 40 ministers and 50 assistant ministers, was named on April 13,; there were 20 ministers each for PNU and the ODM. The PNU was considered to have kept most of the main portfolios despite the dispute that led to the delay, and some in the ODM complained that because of this there was not a true balance in portfolios. The PNU took portfolios such as foreign affairs, finance, internal security, defence, and energy, while the ODM took portfolios such as local government, agriculture, immigration, roads, and public works. Odinga was named Prime Minister, Uhuru Kenyatta was named as the PNU's Deputy Prime Minister (as well as Minister of Trade), and Musalia Mudavadi was named as the ODM's Deputy Prime Minister (as well as Minister of Local Government). Kibaki challenged politicians to put politics aside and \"get to work\".\n\nOdinga and the Cabinet were sworn in on April 17, 2008 at State House. Annan travelled to Kenya again for the occasion; he called on Kenyans to support the new Cabinet and, noting that there was \"still a long way to go\", said that the next task would be to \"mould the cabinet as a cohesive, effective and productive thing that will help steer this nation right\".\n\nIn the absence of an opposition due to the formation of the coalition government, more than 70 backbencher MPs supported the creation of a coalition opposition, feeling that it was important to have an opposition for the sake of democratic governance. However, on May 22, 2008, the Cabinet decided to oppose the creation of such an opposition, saying that it would be unconstitutional and would violate the spirit of the coalition. On the same day, the Cabinet decided to fast-track the commission of inqu your trash ry that is intended to investigate the causes of the violence. A proposed bill that would allow the backbenchers to create an official opposition (the National Assembly (Parliamentary Opposition) Bill 2008) was published in August 2008 and was passed a few months later.\n\nIn addition to the two vacancies in Parliament created by the killing of ODM MPs Mugabe Were and David Too, results were never announced in two parliamentary constituencies due to violence, and another vacancy was produced by the election of Kenneth Marende as Speaker of Parliament. The five by-elections to fill these seats were to be held on June 11, 2008. During the campaigning for the by-elections, which concluded on June 9, the politics of ethnicity was again evident, causing anxiety among some observers; increased tension was also evident between the PNU and the ODM. The ODM alleged that some PNU ministers were guilty of \"openly bribing voters, intimidating ODM supporters and misusing state resources\", and ODM minister William Ole Ntimama said that his party \"watched with dismay as our coalition partners sink to new lows without any regard for the consequences which may flow\". The issue of a possible amnesty for those arrested in connection with the violence also proved to be controversial. Vice-President Musyoka downplayed the tension, saying that campaigning had \"not interfered in any way with the smooth operations of the coalition\".\n\nOn June 10, 2008, two ministers—Minister of Roads Kipkalya Kones and Assistant Minister of Home Affairs Lorna Laboso—were killed in a plane crash, leaving another two seats vacant.\n\nBy January 28, the death toll from the violence was at around 1,300. Up to 600,000 people have been displaced. The largest single loss of life was when a church providing shelter from the violence to 200 people was set on fire by rioters, killing 35 people. The people who were sheltering were members of President Kibaki's tribe, the Kikuyu.\n\nFormer Olympic athlete Lucas Sang died under unknown circumstances in a riot at Eldoret on January 1. Politician G. G. Njuguna Ngengi was hacked to death in Kuresoi, near Molo, on January 2. Marathon runner Wesley Ngetich Kimutai died after he was shot with an arrow on January 19, in the Trans Mara District, becoming the second international athlete to lose his life. On January 20, Donald Odanga, former basketball international was fatally wounded by a stray police bullet. On January 29, opposition MP Mugabe Were was shot to death on his driveway, and on January 31, another opposition MP, David Kimutai Too, was shot by a policeman in disputed circumstances.\n\nOn January 13, Human Rights Watch accused the police of having a \"shoot to kill\" policy, using live ammunition against protesters and looters. According to the police, they have shot looters but not protesters. On January 18, police spokesman Eric Kiraithe said that 510 people had been killed in the violence and that 82 of them were killed by police. According to Kiraithe, the police were acting lawfully and were showing restraint because the protesters were being \"used by politicians.\"\n\nLater in January, Human Rights Watch accused \"ODM politicians and local leaders\" of organizing, instigating and facilitating violence against Kikuyus. The BBC reported on March 5, that government officials had met with members of the Mungiki militia, which is banned, at State House to arrange for the militia to protect Kiyukus. The government denied this.\n\nThe violence in Kenya has had serious economic ramifications throughout East Africa, particularly for the landlocked countries of the Great Lakes region (Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, and eastern parts of the Democratic Republic of Congo). These countries depend upon Kenyan infrastructure links (particularly the port at Mombasa) for important imports as well as export routes. Significant shortages of gasoline were reported in Uganda as well as Zanzibar following the elections. The East African Community, despite having election observers in Kenya, did not issue a statement.\n\nA government spokesman claimed that Odinga's supporters were \"engaging in ethnic cleansing\". Odinga countered that Kibaki's camp was \"guilty, directly, of genocide\" as he called for international mediation.\n\nThe UN had warned that a repeat of the problems could occur after the next election unless Kenya strengthens its institutions and the perpetrators of the 2007 violence are punished. A BBC report in 2009 found that rival groups in Rift Valley Province, such as the Kalenjin and Kikuyu, were purchasing firearms such as AK-47 and G3 rifles, in readiness for anticipated violence at the 2013 poll. There is, however, concerted efforts from the civil society to help avert such an eventuality. There is even a campaign dubbed The Wazi Campaign, that aims to prevent the recurrence of the violence through the use of animated cartoon PSAs that preach peace. Despite these concerns, Kenya had a peaceful election in 2013 with a record 85.91% voter turnout.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32168561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32168561", "title": "2011 Northern Ireland riots", "text": "2011 Northern Ireland riots\n\nThe 2011 Northern Ireland riots were a series of riots between 20 June 2011 and 16 July 2011, starting originally in Belfast, before spreading to other parts of Northern Ireland. They were initiated by the Ulster Volunteer Force.\n\nThe sectarian violence began around 21:00 BST on the night of Monday 20 June, when a large number of loyalists made their way from the unionist Mount and Castlereagh Street areas to the nationalist Short Strand enclave. This provoked a response from the nationalists. The Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) Assistant Chief Constable Alistair Finlay said that around 500–600 people were involved in the rioting. According to the PSNI, the riots are said to have been initially instigated by the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF).\n\nThe clashes saw various dangerous objects such as petrol bombs, bricks, bottles, fireworks and smoke bombs thrown by both sides in what police described as \"high-level, life-threatening, organised, serious and sustained\" attack by people \"hell-bent on disorder\". At one point six shots were fired from the nationalist Short Strand area followed by about five shots from the loyalist Pitt Park. Two shots hit a police Land Rover in what the PSNI claimed was attempted murder of their officers. One officer suffered eye injuries when a laser pen was being used to blind officers.\n\nThe riots in Short Strand was described by politicians as the worst violence in the area in a decade.\n\nOn the Tuesday night, during further clashes between unionists and nationalists, about 700 people were involved. A photographer was shot in the leg by a gunman firing from the nationalist area, which police blamed on dissident republicans.\n\nBy Wednesday 22 June, discussions were held between community representatives, politicians, and loyalist and nationalist figures. The end result was for both sides to police their own communities to avoid further violence. Later that night the area was largely peaceful despite unionist and nationalist groups – held back by community marshals – being involved for several hours in a stand-off at the Mountpottinger Road end of the Short Strand until around 01:30 on Thursday morning. Nationalist marshals intervened to stop nationalist youths attacking police Land Rovers.\n\nA 20-year-old woman was arrested on suspicion of possessing an offensive weapon and assaulting police, which was followed on the Wednesday by the arrest of a 22-year-old man from West Belfast in relation to the rioting.\n\nA riot broke out on 1 July 2011 in Castlereagh Street and Mountpottinger Road, where the police used water cannons again to stop rioting continuing into the night.\n\nOn 9 July, loyalist rioters attacked the PSNI in Ballyclare after the PSNI removed Union and paramilitary flags from outside a Catholic church.\n\nExpected riots broke out on 11 July and nationalist rioters attacked the PSNI in the Oldpark and Broadway areas of Belfast. The Royal Victoria Hospital's new £9 million extension was damaged. It is believed shots were fired.\n\nMore expected rioting broke out the following day in nationalist areas of north and south Belfast following the annual Orange Order Twelfth of July parades. Trouble also broke out in Derry, where police claimed people as young as ten were involved. The PSNI were criticised for their handling of the riots. \n\nOn 15 July, police in Portadown came under attack with a riot involving around 100 people. Immigrants were forced to flee Northern Ireland when their home came under attack by loyalists in a Catholic area. The next day, in Corcraine, Portadown, there was further unrest and rioting.\n\n"}
{"id": "55636025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55636025", "title": "Akademi Kernewek", "text": "Akademi Kernewek\n\nAkademi Kernewek (Cornish language academy) is the official academic body responsible for the linguistic development of the Cornish language It is responsible for setting standards for the language, developing dictionaries in the Standard Written Form, advising on street and place names, developing terminology and carrying out research. The academy consists of a management board and four panels.\n"}
{"id": "49275955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49275955", "title": "America can't do a damn thing against us", "text": "America can't do a damn thing against us\n\nAmerica can't do a damn thing against us () is a slogan originally used by the former Supreme Leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini during the Iran hostage crisis, for the first time to assure the Iranians that the United States would not be able to restore the ousted Shah of Iran back to the Persian throne. The statement then became an official slogan for the Iranian Revolution which resulted in the establishment of an Islamic Republic under Khomeini's rule.\n\nResponding to Iran's request for extradition of the Shah of Iran Muhammad Reza Pahlavi, the President of the United States, Jimmy Carter, provided for the Shah's travel plans to Panama with the deliberate intention of eliminating the possibility of the extradition in exchange for hostages who were held by the revolutionary Iran for 444 days (November 4, 1979, to January 20, 1981) after a group of Iranian revolutionary students affiliated with Muslim Student Followers of the Imam's Line broke into and entered the Embassy of the United States of America in Tehran, and took its diplomatic staff hostage, in contravention of international law, in response to the US providing political asylum for the Shah. A week after the incident, the sheets and finances of Iran were confiscated by US. Yet, in spite of what were deemed by Iran to be international threats, there was still the possibility of holding trials for alleged American spies, and the reaction of Ayatollah Khomeini against the threat of Carter published regularly by international media, was the slogan \"America can't do a damn thing against us.\"\n\nThe slogan appeared on many walls and banners such as a billboard along the Iran-Iraq border, a banner which was hung in front of the U.S captured RQ-170 drone and a banner above which Ali Khamenei was speaking at an event commemorating the 25th anniversary Khamenei.\n\nThe slogan was also used by Khamenei, Khomeini's successor, while speaking to teachers on Teacher's Day in Iran, and on other several occasions. It was also used by some other Iranian officials.\n\n"}
{"id": "32976532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32976532", "title": "Baugrygr", "text": "Baugrygr\n\nBaugrygr or Ringkvinna was the term for an unmarried woman who had inherited the position of head of the family, usually from her father or brother, with all the tasks and rights associated with the position. The position existed in Scandinavia during the Viking era and into the middle ages.\n\nRingkvinna is primarily mentioned in the Icelandic Grágás and the Norwegian Frostating laws and Gulating laws, in which it is phrased in much the same way. Unmarried women in general, referred to as \"maer\" and \"mey\", were secure in their rights of independence: at the age of 20, a woman reached the right of legal majority and had the right to decide about her own place of residence and stand by herself in all juridical senses before the law.These same rights applied to widows. The one exception to her independence was the right to choose a marriage partner, which was a matter for the whole family.\n\nIn the absence of male relatives, an unmarried woman with no son could inherit the position as head of the family from a deceased father or brother. Women with such status were referred to as ringkvinna. She exercised all the rights afforded to the head of a family clan until she married at which time her rights were transferred to her husband. The right to inherit in itself applied to both the paternal aunt, paternal niece and paternal granddaughter of the deceased, who were all named as \"odalkvinna\", but the right to inherit the position of head of the family was a right which could only be inherited by the daughter or the sister of a dead man.\n\nThe ringkvinna had the specific support of the law to perform all the tasks normally performed by a head of the family, such as, the right to demand and receive fines for the slaughter of a family member. If she married, however, these rights were passed on to her spouse. These rights were preserved also after Christianization although they seem to have disappeared in the late 13th century, at which time they are no longer mentioned in any law texts.\n\n"}
{"id": "3239951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3239951", "title": "Black Front", "text": "Black Front\n\nThe Combat League of Revolutionary National Socialists (German: \"Kampfgemeinschaft Revolutionärer Nationalsozialisten\", KGRNS), more commonly known as the Black Front (), was a political group formed by Otto Strasser after his expulsion from the Nazi Party (NSDAP) in 1930.\n\nStrasser believed the original anti-capitalist nature of the NSDAP had been betrayed by Adolf Hitler. The Black Front was composed of former radical members of the NSDAP, who intended to cause a split in the main party. Strasser's organisation published a newspaper, \"The German Revolution\". The Black Front adopted the crossed hammer and sword symbol which is still used by several Strasserite groupings today.\n\nThe organisation was unable to oppose the NSDAP effectively and Hitler’s rise to power proved to be the final straw. Strasser spent the years of the Third Reich in exile, first in Czechoslovakia and later in Canada. The social fascist wing of the NSDAP itself was eradicated in 1934 during the Night of the Long Knives in which Gregor Strasser, Otto's elder brother, was killed.\n\n"}
{"id": "42533181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42533181", "title": "Borotba", "text": "Borotba\n\nThe Association “Struggle” (; ) is a left-wing organization operating in Odessa and Kharkiv, Kyiv, and Dnipropetrovsk in Ukraine.\n\nThe Draft Manifesto of the Organization declares:\n\nUnion “Borotba” stands for Revolutionary Marxism, and its most important task – to extend Left ideology implementing Marxist methodology in the political discourse of Ukraine.\n\nThe Manifest also states that the organization will support principles of anti-capitalism, internationalism, anti-fascism, political radicalism and gender equality.\n\nTaking the name of oppositional political party in Soviet Ukraine, from 1920 until 1925, which had merged with the Ukrainian Communist Party in 1920, Borotba has been described as part of the emerging heterogeneous New Left in Ukraine. Its leader is the Russian, Victor Shapinov, formerly active in Russian Communist Workers Party before moving to Ukraine in 2005. The association was established in May 2011 by former members of the \"Organization of Marxists\" (a Marxist-Leninist group formed in 2007), the Communist Party of Ukraine (KPU) and its youth wing the \"Leninist Communist Youth Union of Ukraine, the \"All-Ukrainian Union of Workers\", the \"Youth Association Che Guevara\" and the \"Youth against capitalism\" movement, with some individual leftist activists also joining. The founding congress was attended by delegates from across Ukraine. International guests from Sweden and Russia were also present.\n\nBorotba has cooperated with and received support from Germany's Die Linke and the Swedish Left Party's VIF aid organization. It also cooperates with the Left Front, a Russian opposition group.\n\nWhen the Euromaidan movement started in 2013, Borotba were critical of it from the outset. Some members of Borotba, including Dennis Levine, attempted to recruit protesters to the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions of Ukraine to fight against increased public transport costs in Kiev. According to Svetlana Tsiberganova, they were attacked by the far-right.\n\nBorotba's analysis of the authorities that replaced former President Viktor Yanukovych and the second Azarov government after the 2014 Ukrainian revolution on 22 February 2014 is that far-right nationalists received too much power and control over important ministries and agencies including defense, anti-corruption and national security, education, agriculture and the environment, as well as the office of the Prosecutor General of Ukraine. Borotba has condemned what they considered a \"Western-backed\" and \"fascist\" February 2014 coup in Kiev and called for a socialist revolution in Ukraine against the government of \"ultra-nationalists and Nazis\".\n\nBorotba's members took an active role in political events in Kharkiv in March 2014. On March 15, Borotba, the \"People’s Unity\" and other groups called a public meeting in Kharkiv. Borotba joined Anti-Maidan protesters in storming the regional administration building, which at that time was occupied by pro-Maidan activists, and their members are accused by other Ukrainian left organisations for taking part in the beating of pro-Maidan activists, including anarchists and the well-known Ukrainian author Serhiy Zhadan. Borotba justified their action by calling the occupants members of Right Sector. On April 15, and May 8, 2014, Borotba's office in Kharkiv was raided by police.\n\nIn Kharkiv, Borotba activists claim to have printed 100,000 leaflets and 10,000 posters persuading the voters to boycott the presidential election in May 2014, since they considered it unrepresentative, radical rightist, and illegitimate.\n\nOn May Day, Borotba members staged a rally in Kovalska Street in Odessa. Later in May, Borotba joined other Anti-Maidan parties (Yury Apukhtin's \"Southeast\" movement, the Progressive Socialist Party of Ukraine and the KPU) in rallying against the presidential elections. The leader of the Odessan regional organisation of Borotba, Aleksey Albu, fled to Russian-annexed Crimea, where he founded a \"Committee for the Liberation of Odessa\" on 24 May 2014 together with representatives of the Russian nationalist party Rodina and of the organization \"Slavic Unity\". On September 12, a Borotba activist was arrested in Odessa by the Internal Security Service (SBU), under the accusation of terrorism.\n\nOn March 3, 2014, several left and anarchist organizations in Ukraine, including the Autonomous Workers Union, the \"Direct Action\" Independent Student Union and the Left Opposition socialist organization, criticized Borotba for alleged cooperation with conservative pro-Russian groups in Ukraine and allegedly spreading \"overt lies and fact manipulations\". In a rebuttal, Borotba rejected the accusations as \"hypocritical\" and \"irrelevant\". Borotba states that it has regularly criticized Russian authorities and organized in solidarity with left-wing Russian organizations that met with repression from the Russian authorities.\n\nAfter the circulation of these allegations, the regional coordination office of the German federal Die Linke party distanced itself from Borotba and its founding member Serhei Kirichuk, who is currently living in German exile. Die Linke cancelled several events with Kirichuk, such as a panel discussion in Hamburg on the 2 July 2014 and in Kiel 3 July 2014. A book presentation which Kirichuk had helped to organise was also cancelled due to the author's ties to Russian neo-Nazi groups such as Russian National Unity and the anti-immigrant DPNI.\n\nKirichuk responded to many of the accusations levelled against the organisation, especially with regard to their support for separatists in the South and East of Ukraine, in an interview with Andrej Hunko of Die Linke.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "921751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=921751", "title": "CFS Carp", "text": "CFS Carp\n\nCanadian Forces Station Carp (also CFS Carp and commonly known as The Diefenbunker) is a former Canadian military facility located in the rural farming community of Carp, Ontario, approximately west of downtown Ottawa.\n\nCFS Carp was decommissioned in 1994. It was not until 1998 that it was reopened as a museum and designated a National Historic Site of Canada.\nCurrently, the facility operates as a museum and is open year-round for tours.\n\nIn 1958, at the height of the Cold War and the infancy of the intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) threat, Prime Minister John Diefenbaker authorized the creation of close to 50 Emergency Government Headquarters (nicknamed \"Diefenbunkers\" by opposition parties) across Canada. These shelters were part of what came to be known as the Continuity of Government plan, which was meant to protect various members of government in the event of a nuclear attack.\n\nThe original site, some east of Almonte () was abandoned when ground water proved impossible to remove. An abandoned gravel pit outside Carp was selected instead, construction began in 1959 and was completed by 1962.\n\nThe Carp shelter would be the largest of such facilities (over ) and the only one in the immediate Ottawa area. The underground 4-storey bunker required 32,000 tonnes of concrete and 5,000 tonnes of steel. The structure was capable of withstanding a nuclear blast up to 5 megatons from away. It had massive blast doors at the surface, as well as extensive air filters to prevent radiation infiltration. Although supposedly effective against surface nuclear detonations, the facility was later found to be vulnerable to conventional Bunker buster bombs developed after its construction, as these bombs had time delay fuses that would detonate after they had penetrated deeply enough underground.\n\nUnderground storage was built for food, fuel, fresh water, and other supplies. The bunker was built to accommodate 565 people for up to one month without receiving additional supplies from the outside. It included an emergency broadcast studio for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and a vault on the lowest level to hold the gold reserves of the Bank of Canada.\n\nThese facilities were administered by the Royal Canadian Corps of Signals (later the Communications and Electronics Branch). A decentralized transmitter site, the Richardson Detachment, with numerous transmitter antenna was located further to the west near Perth Ontario that was supported from a 2-storey underground facility of similar construction to the Carp facility but much smaller. Two radio receiving facilities, the CFS Carp Almonte Detachment and CFS Carp Dunrobin Detachment, with a complete receiving antenna arrays were built in the region but all buildings were above ground.\n\nCFS Carp was decommissioned in 1994 following the reduction in the ICBM threat.\n\nFrom 1959 to 1994, the site was owned and operated by the Government of Canada, Department of National Defence. After the local municipality took control of the facility in 1994, the community took a great interest in the bunker, requesting access to public tours of the facility. The local municipality took control of the facility and a group of local volunteers, recognizing the heritage and tourism value of the Carp Diefenbunker, undertook to open the facility as a cold war museum and conduct public tours. It was purchased by the Diefenbunker Development Group in 1998, and officially opened as a museum. The name of the facility was changed to the Diefenbunker, Canada's Cold War Museum shortly thereafter. It is currently open year-round for public tours.\n\nMany areas of the bunker, including the PM's Suite, the Emergency Government Situation Centre, the CBC Emergency Broadcasting Studio, the Military Federal Warning Centre, the External Affairs Ministerial Office, the Public Works Minister's Office and the Bank of Canada Vault, are being restored to their operational condition. The rest of the 358 rooms have been converted to exhibits of the Cold War era.\n\nUpon its opening in 1998, the museum was run completely by volunteers. However, the 5,000 visitors received that year was too much to be handled solely by volunteers.\n\nIn 1999, the museum's second year of operation, a curator was hired along with some students. The museum's visitation doubled to 10,000 people that year.\n\nThe museum continued to grow into the 2000s. Close to 15,000 visitors passed through the Diefenbunker in 2000. Additional part-time staff was hired throughout the year to keep up with museum maintenance and upkeep. As of 2008, the Diefenbunker averages approximately 25,000 visitors each year. Four full-time staff, nine part-time staff and numerous volunteers work to keep the museum running smoothly. In 2012, the museum had 45,280 visitors. This was one of the highest increases in attendance other than the opening year of the Bunker.\n\nThe mandate of Diefenbunker, Canada's Cold War museum is \"to increase throughout Canada and the world, interest in and a critical understanding of the Cold War, by preserving the Diefenbunker as a national historic site, and operating a Cold War Museum.\n\nThe Diefenbunker houses a collection of Cold War artefacts, an archive and a library, all of which are made available to researchers upon request, and to the general public through the exhibitions.\n\nThe Diefenbunker: Canada's Cold War museum is a not-for-profit, charitable museum. It is funded privately; the main source of revenue for the museum comes from admission sales (approximately 75% of total revenue). The Diefenbunker actively applies for private, municipal, provincial and federal grants. The museum also relies on the generous support of the community through donations and sponsorship.\n\nThe Diefenbunker offers additional services on top of public tours. The museum has space available to rent both for events and storage. The decommissioned bunker has been used as a movie set on several occasions, including for \"The Sum of All Fears\" and \"Rulers of Darkness\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13077411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13077411", "title": "Center for Jewish History", "text": "Center for Jewish History\n\nThe Center for Jewish History is a partnership of five Jewish history, scholarship, and art organizations in New York City: American Jewish Historical Society, American Sephardi Federation, Leo Baeck Institute New York, Yeshiva University Museum, and YIVO Institute for Jewish Research. Together, housed in one location, the partners have separate governing bodies and finances, but collocate resources. The partners' collections make up the biggest repository of Jewish history in the United States. The Center for Jewish History serves as a centralized place of scholarly research, events, exhibitions, and performances. Located within the Center are the Lillian Goldman Reading Room, Ackman & Ziff Family Genealogy Institute and a Collection Management & Conservation Wing. The Center for Jewish History is also an affiliate of the Smithsonian Institution.\n\nIn 2000, the Center was opened after six years of construction and planning with a goal of creating synergy among the five member organizations, each offering a different approach to Jewish history, scholarship and art. This was one of the first attempts at uniting differing views on Jewish culture and resulted in the largest repository documenting the Jewish experience outside of Israel leading some to refer to it as the Jewish Library of Congress. \n\nIn the late 1980s, Bruce Slovin, who was the chairman of YIVO, originated the concept of unified center where the partners could share resources. The idea was triggered when he realized that the then home of YIVO, a mansion located at 86th and Fifth Avenue, was not able to meet the needs of its collections or visitors, resulting in an environment that has hazardous to the collection (it was not temperature-controlled) as well as made archival study difficult. The location on Museum Mile was not seen as an advantageous adjacency. Slovin saw YIVO and the partner organizations as being more academic-focused.\n\nThe Leo Baeck Institute was previously located at 129 East 73rd Street, and the American Jewish Historical Society, which had previously been a New York City-based institution prior to the early 1960s, was then located near Brandeis University in Waltham, Massachusetts. The Yeshiva University Museum was located in the Washington Heights neighborhood uptown.\n\nWhen it opened its doors to the public in October 2000, the Center struggled with financial problems. In 2007, there were preliminary talks about a partnership with NYU's Skirball Department for Hebrew and Judaic Studies to the benefit of both organizations. In the end, the Center and Skirball decided not to move forward. In 2010, the Center for Jewish History was able to raise $30 million to retire its construction debt. The amount was raised and donated by the chairman and founder of the center, Bruce Slovin; co-chairmen William Ackman and Joseph Steinberg; the Fairholme Foundation; and 19 other donors. These efforts meant that the Center was debt-free. In 2012, the Center received a top rating of four stars from the Charity Navigator non-profit evaluation service.\n\nIn 2013, the Lillian Goldman Charitable Trust awarded the Center a $1.5 million grant to establish a reference services division.\n\nThe Center is located in Manhattan's Union Square neighborhood, and is a four-building campus built around a courtyard that has a central entrance on 16th Street. The Center is made up of four previously existing buildings and two new buildings. The buildings are the former location of the American Foundation for the Blind/Helen Keller Institute. The cost of the complex was $4.4 million.\n\nThe partners' collections include more than 100 million documents, 500,000 books, thousands of art objects, textiles, ritual objects, music, films, and photographs. most of which had been poorly housed in the member institutions and were at risk of damage or destruction. The Center is heavily involved with the preservation of records that define moments in Jewish immigration to New York City. A $670,000 grant awarded in 2007 helped with the cataloging of these materials.\n\n\nThe collections range from the early modern era in Europe and pre-colonial times in the Americas to present-day materials from across the globe. The Center provides access to a comprehensive collection of historic archival materials, including Franz Kafka, Theodor Herzl, Moses Mendelssohn, Sigmund Freud and Albert Einstein. In addition to historical documents like the 1478 record of the trial of Simon of Trent, the Center also includes holdings of artwork by Max Lieberman as well as Jewish ephemera like philosopher Moses Mendelssohn's eyeglasses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4599265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4599265", "title": "Community of Christ International Peace Award", "text": "Community of Christ International Peace Award\n\nThe Community of Christ International Peace Award was established to honor and bring attention to the work of peacemaking and peacemakers in the world. It has been bestowed on an individual each year since 1993 (except 1996 and 2015). \n\nThe award was instituted as part of the peace and justice ministries associated with the Independence Temple, which was dedicated in 1994, the year following the inaugural award. The Community of Christ International Peace Award includes a cash gift for the benefit of the recipient's project or endeavor. \n\nThe Community of Christ International Peace Award has been given annually (with the exception of 1996 and 2015) since 1993 at Community of Christ World Headquarters during significant events, including the annual Peace Colloquy, the biennial World Conference, and the International Youth Forum (held every four years). The cash value of the Community of Christ International Peace Award ranks among the top 20 international, non-governmental peace awards in the world (in a list topped by the Nobel Peace Prize) and among the top seven in the United States. As of 2006, the award includes $20,000 for the recipient to donate to a charity of his or her choice.\n\nRecipients represent diversity in terms of ethnicity, gender, and faith. The Community of Christ International Peace Award honor roll includes Craig Kielburger, Rev. James Lawson, Jean Vanier, Ela Gandhi, Swanee Hunt, John Paul Lederach, Jane Goodall, Marie Fortune, Juan M. Flavier, Marian Wright Edelman, M. Scott Peck and Lily Peck, and Jehan Sadat.\n\n2005 recipient Craig Kielburger, founder of Free the Children, stated in his acceptance address that: \"It is an honour to receive this commendation from an organization with such a long and acclaimed history as champions for international peace and justice. The Community of Christ has been a social-justice advocate since its early beginnings among the poor on the USA frontier in the 1830s. Your movement began with young people; Joseph Smith Jr. was only fourteen when he had his first vision, only twenty-four when he began your church. Today an international movement in over fifty nations, Community of Christ carries the torch forward through child advocacy, campaigns to support conscientious objection to war, and in their fight to bring recognition to the crisis in Darfur, Sudan.\" \n\nAccepting the award in 2004, Rev. James Lawson said: \"You can resolve the war in your own life. You can resolve the war in your community, your congregation. You can heal the war in our nation. We can make war a relic of a dead past that need never again threaten the well-being and the security of the human race.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18994400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18994400", "title": "Cool (aesthetic)", "text": "Cool (aesthetic)\n\nCoolness is an aesthetic of attitude, behavior, comportment, appearance and style which is generally admired. Because of the varied and changing connotations of cool, as well as its subjective nature, the word has no single meaning. It has associations of composure and self-control (cf. the OED definition) and often is used as an expression of admiration or approval. Although commonly regarded as slang, it is widely used among disparate social groups and has endured in usage for generations.\n\n There is no single concept of cool. One consistent aspect however, is that cool is widely seen as desirable. Although there is no single concept of cool, its definitions fall into a few broad categories.\n\nThe sum and substance of cool is a self-conscious aplomb in overall behavior, which entails a set of specific behavioral characteristics that is firmly anchored in symbology, a set of discernible bodily movements, postures, facial expressions and voice modulations that are acquired and take on strategic social value within the peer context.\n\nCool was once an attitude fostered by rebels and underdogs, such as slaves, prisoners, bikers and political dissidents, etc., for whom open rebellion invited punishment, so it hid defiance behind a wall of ironic detachment, distancing itself from the source of authority rather than directly confronting it.\n\nIn general, coolness is a positive trait based on the inference that a cultural object (e.g., a person or brand) is autonomous in an appropriate way. That is the person or brand is not constrained by the norms, expectation of beliefs of others.\n\nCool has been used to describe a general state of well-being, a transcendent, internal state of peace and serenity. It can also refer to an absence of conflict, a state of harmony and balance as in, \"The land is cool,\" or as in a \"cool [spiritual] heart.\" Such meanings, according to Thompson, are African in origin. Cool is related in this sense to both social control and transcendental balance.\n\nCool can similarly be used to describe composure and absence of excitement in a person—especially in times of stress—as expressed in the idiom \"to keep your cool\".\n\nIn a related way, the word can be used to express agreement or assent, as in the phrase \"\"I'm cool with that\".\"\n\nCool is also an attitude widely adopted by artists and intellectuals, who thereby aided its infiltration into popular culture. Sought by product marketing firms, idealized by teenagers, a shield against racial oppression or political persecution and source of constant cultural innovation, cool has become a global phenomenon that has spread to every corner of the earth. Concepts of cool have existed for centuries in several cultures.\n\nIn terms of fashion, the concept of \"cool\" has transformed from the 1960s to the 1990s by becoming integrated in the dominant fabric of culture. America’s mass-production of \"ready-to-wear\" fashion in the 1940s and ‘50s, established specific conventional outfits as markers of ones fixed social role in society. Subcultures such as the Hippies, felt repressed by the dominating conservative ideology of the 1940s and ‘50s towards conformity and rebelled. According to Dick Pountain’s definition of \"cool,\" Hippie's fashionable dress can be seen as \"cool\" because of its prominent deviation away from the standard uniformity of dress and mass-production of dress, created by the totalitarian system of fashion was seen as \"cool.\" They had various different styles that features bold colors such as the \"Trippy Hippie,\" the \"Fantasy Hippie,\" the \"Retro Hippie,\" the \"Ethnic Hippie,\" and the \"Craft Hippie.\" Additionally, according to the strain theory, Hippie’s hand production of their clothing makes them \"cool.\" By naturally hand-making their clothing they rebelled against consumerism in a passive manner because it allowed them to simply not participate in that lifestyle, which makes them \"cool.\" As a result of their disengagement, the scope of self-critique was limited because their mask filtered negative thoughts of worthlessness, fostering the opportunity for self-worth. \n\nStarting in the 1990s and continuing into the 21st century, the concept of dressing cool went out of the minority and into the mainstream culture, making dressing \"cool\" a dominant ideology. Cool entered the mainstream because those Hippie \"rebels\" of the late 1960s were now senior executives of business sectors and of the fashion industry. Since they grew up with \"cool\" and maintained the same values, they knew its rules and thus knew how to accurately market and produce such clothing. However, once \"cool\" became the dominant ideology in the 21st century its definition changed to not one of rebellion but of one attempting to hide their insecurities in a confident manner. \n\nThe \"fashion-grunge\" style of the 1990s and 21st century allowed people who felt financially insecure about their lifestyle to pretend to \"fit in\" by wearing a unique piece of clothing, but one that was polished beautiful. For example, unlike the Hippie style that clearly diverges from the norm, through Marc Jacobs' combined \"fashion-grunge\" style of \"a little preppie, a little grunge and a little couture,\" he produces not a bold statement one that is mysterious and awkward creating an ambiguous perception of what the wearer’s internal feelings are.\n\nWhile slang terms are usually short-lived coinages and figures of speech, \"cool\" is an especially ubiquitous slang word, most notably among young people. As well as being understood throughout the English-speaking world, the word has even entered the vocabulary of several languages other than English.\n\nIn this sense, cool is used as a general positive epithet or interjection, which can have a range of related adjectival meanings.\n\nOne of the essential characteristics of cool is its mutability—what is considered cool changes over time and varies among cultures and generations. \n\nAuthor Robert Farris Thompson, professor of art history at Yale University, suggests that Itutu, which he translates as 'mystic coolness,' is one of three pillars of a religious philosophy created in the 15th century by Yoruba and Igbo civilizations of West Africa. Cool, or Itutu, contained meanings of conciliation and gentleness of character, of generosity and grace, and the ability to defuse fights and disputes. It also was associated with physical beauty. In Yoruba culture, Itutu is connected to water, because to the Yoruba the concept of coolness retained its physical connotation of temperature. He cites a definition of cool from the Gola people of Liberia, who define it as the ability to be mentally calm or detached, in an other-worldly fashion, from one's circumstances, to be nonchalant in situations where emotionalism or eagerness would be natural and expected. Joseph M. Murphy writes that \"cool\" is also closely associated with the deity Òsun of the Yoruba religion. \n\nAlthough Thompson acknowledges similarities between African and European \"cool\" in shared notions of self-control and imperturbability, he finds the cultural value of cool in Africa which influenced the African diaspora to be different from that held by Europeans, who use the term primarily as the ability to remain calm under stress. According to Thompson, there is significant weight, meaning and spirituality attached to cool in traditional African cultures, something which, Thompson argues, is absent from the idea in a Western context.\n\nThe telling point is that the \"mask\" of coolness is worn not only in time of stress, but also of pleasure, in fields of expressive performance and the dance. Struck by the re-occurrence of this vital notion elsewhere in tropical Africa and in the Pan-American African Diaspora, I have come to term the attitude \"an aesthetic of the cool\" in the sense of a deeply and completely motivated, consciously artistic, interweaving of elements serious and pleasurable, of responsibility and play.\n\nRonald Perry writes that many words and expressions have passed from African-American Vernacular English into Standard English slang including the contemporary meaning of the word \"cool.\" The definition, as something fashionable, is said to have been popularized in jazz circles by tenor saxophonist Lester Young. This predominantly black jazz scene in the U.S. and among expatriate musicians in Paris helped popularize notions of cool in the U.S. in the 1940s, giving birth to \"Bohemian\", or beatnik, culture. Shortly thereafter, a style of jazz called cool jazz appeared on the music scene, emphasizing a restrained, laid-back solo style. Notions of cool as an expression of centeredness in a Taoist sense, equilibrium and self-possession, of an absence of conflict are commonly understood in both African and African-American contexts well. Expressions such as, \"Don't let it blow your cool,\" later, \"chill out\", and the use of \"chill\" as a characterization of inner contentment or restful repose all have their origins in African-American Vernacular English.\n\nMarlene Kim Connor connects cool and the post-war African-American experience in her book \"What is Cool?: Understanding Black Manhood in America\". Connor writes that cool is the silent and knowing rejection of racist oppression, a self-dignified expression of masculinity developed by black men denied mainstream expressions of manhood. She writes that mainstream perception of cool is narrow and distorted, with cool often perceived merely as style or arrogance, rather than a way to achieve respect.\n\nDesigner Christian Lacroix has said that \"...the history of cool in America is the history of African-American culture\".\n\nAmong black men in America, coolness, which may have its roots in slavery as an ironic submission and concealed subversion, at times is enacted in order to create a powerful appearance, a type of performance frequently maintained for the sake of a social audience.\n\n'Cool', though an amorphous quality—more mystique than material—is a pervasive element in urban black male culture. Majors and Billson address what they term \"cool pose\" in their study and argue that it helps black men counter stress caused by social oppression, rejection and racism. They also contend that it furnishes the black male with a sense of control, strength, confidence and stability and helps him deal with the closed doors and negative messages of the \"generalized other.\" They also believe that attaining black manhood is filled with pitfalls of discrimination, negative self-image, guilt, shame and fear.\n\n\"Cool pose\" may be a factor in discrimination in education contributing to the achievement gaps in test scores. In a 2004 study, researchers found that teachers perceived students with African-American culture-related movement styles, referred to as the \"cool pose,\" as lower in achievement, higher in aggression, and more likely to need special education services than students with standard movement styles, irrespective of race or other academic indicators. The issue of stereotyping and discrimination with respect to \"cool pose\" raises complex questions of assimilation and accommodation of different cultural values. Jason W. Osborne identifies \"cool pose\" as one of the factors in black underachievement. Robin D. G. Kelley criticizes calls for assimilation and sublimation of black culture, including \"cool pose.\" He argues that media and academics have unfairly demonized these aspects of black culture while, at the same time, through their sustained fascination with blacks as exotic others, appropriated aspects of \"cool pose\" into the broader popular culture.\n\nGeorge Elliott Clarke writes that Malcolm X, like Miles Davis, embodies essential elements of cool. As an icon, Malcolm X inspires a complex mixture of both fear and fascination in broader American culture, much like \"cool pose\" itself.\n\nIn Japan, synonyms of \"cool\" could be iki and sui. These are traditional commoners' aesthetic ideals that developed in Edo. Some tend to immediately connect the aesthetics of Japan to samurai, but this is historically inaccurate. In fact, samurais from the countryside have often been the target of ridicule by the commoner in the civilized Edo in many art forms including rakugo, a form of comical storytelling.\n\nSome argue that the ethic of the Samurai caste in Japan, warrior castes in India and East Asia all resemble cool. The samurai-themed works of film director Akira Kurosawa are among the most praised of the genre, influencing many filmmakers across the world with his techniques and storytelling. Notable works of his include \"The Seven Samurai\", \"Yojimbo\", and \"The Hidden Fortress\". The latter was one of the primary inspirations for George Lucas's \"Star Wars\", which also borrows a number of aspects from the samurai, for example the Jedi Knights of the series. Samurai have been presented as cool in many modern Japanese movies such as \"Samurai Fiction\", \"Kagemusha\", and \"Yojimbo\", which was appropriated in American movies such as \"Ghost Dog\" and \"The Last Samurai\"\n\nIn The Art of War, a Chinese military treatise written during the 6th century BC, general Sun Tzu, a member of the landless Chinese aristocracy, wrote in Chapter XII:\nProfiting by their panic, we shall exterminate them completely; this will cool the King's courage and cover us with glory, besides ensuring the success of our mission.\nAsian countries have developed a tradition on their own to explore types of modern 'cool' or 'ambiguous' aesthetics.\n\nIn a \"Time Asia\" article \"The Birth of Cool\" author Hannah Beech describes Asian cool as \"a revolution in taste led by style gurus who are redefining Chinese craftsmanship in everything from architecture and film to clothing and cuisine\" and as a modern aesthetic inspired both by a Ming-era minimalism and a strenuous attention to detail.\n\nPaul Waley, professor of Human Geography at the University of Leeds, considers Tokyo along with New York, London and Paris to be one of the world's \"capitals of cool\" and the \"Washington Post\" called Tokyo \"Japan's Empire of Cool\" and Japan \"the coolest nation on Earth\".\nAnalysts are marveling at the breadth of a recent explosion in cultural exports, and many argue that the international embrace of Japan's pop culture, film, food, style and arts is second only to that of the United States. Business leaders and government officials are now referring to Japan's \"gross national cool\" as a new engine for economic growth and societal buoyancy.\n\nThe term \"gross national cool\" was coined by Journalist Douglas McGray. In a June/July 2002 article in \"Foreign Policy\" magazine, he argued that as Japan's economic juggernaut took a wrong turn into a 10-year slump, and with military power made impossible by a pacifist constitution, the nation had quietly emerged as a cultural powerhouse: \"From pop music to consumer electronics, architecture to fashion, and food to art, Japan has far greater cultural influence now than it did in the 1980s, when it was an economic superpower.\" The notion of Asian 'cool' applied to Asian consumer electronics is borrowed from the cultural media theorist Eric McLuhan who described 'cool' or 'cold' media as stimulating participants to complete auditive or visual media content, in sharp contrast to 'hot' media that degrades the viewer to a merely passive or non-interactive receiver.\n\n\"Aristocratic cool\", known as sprezzatura, has existed in Europe for centuries, particularly when relating to frank amorality and love or illicit pleasures behind closed doors; Raphael's \"Portrait of Baldassare Castiglione\" and Leonardo da Vinci's \"Mona Lisa\" are classic examples of \"sprezzatura\". The \"sprezzatura\" of the Mona Lisa is seen in both her smile and the positioning of her hands. Both the smile and hands are intended to convey her grandeur, self-confidence and societal position. Sprezzatura means, literally, disdain and detachment. It is the art of refraining from the appearance of trying to present oneself in a particular way. In reality, of course, tremendous exertion went into pretending not to bother or care.\n\nEnglish poet and playwright William Shakespeare used cool in several of his works to describe composure and absence of emotion. In \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", written sometime in the late-16th century, he contrasts the shaping fantasies of lovers and madmen with \"cool reason,\" in \"Hamlet\" he wrote \"O gentle son, upon the heat and flame of thy distemper, sprinkle cool patience,\" and the antagonist Iago in \"Othello\" is musing about \"reason to cool our raging motions, our carnal stings, our unbitted lusts.\"\n\nThe cool \"Anatolian smile\" of Turkey is used to mask emotions. A similar \"mask\" of coolness is worn in both times of stress and pleasure in American and African communities.\n\nThe key themes of modern European cool were forged by avant-garde artists who achieved prominence in the aftermath of the First World War, most notably Dadaists, such as key Dada figures Arthur Cravan and Marcel Duchamp, and the left-wing milieu of the Weimar Republic. The program of such groups was often self-consciously revolutionary, a determination to scandalize the bourgeoisie by mocking their culture, sexuality and political moderation.\n\nBerthold Brecht, both a committed Communist and a philandering cynic, stands as the archetype of this inter-war cool. Brecht projected his cool attitude to life onto his most famous character Macheath or \"Mackie Messer\" (Mack the knife), in The Threepenny Opera. Mackie, the nonchalant, smooth-talking gangster, expert with the switchblade, personifies the bitter-sweet strain of cool; Puritanism and sentimentality are both anathema to the cool character.\n\nDuring the turbulent inter-war years, cool was a privilege reserved for bohemian milieus like Brecht's. Cool irony and hedonism remained the province of cabaret artistes, ostentatious gangsters and rich socialites, those decadents depicted in Evelyn Waugh's Brideshead Revisited and Christopher Isherwood's Goodbye to Berlin, tracing the outlines of a new cool. Peter Stearns, professor of history at George Mason University, suggests that in effect the seeds of a cool outlook had been sown among this inter-war generation.\n\nThe Second World War brought the populations of Britain, Germany and France into intimate contact with Americans and American culture. The war brought hundreds of thousands of GIs whose relaxed, easy-going manner was seen by young people of the time as the very embodiment of liberation; and with them came Lucky Strikes, nylons, swing and jazz—the American Cool.\n\nTo be cool or hip meant hanging out, pursuing sexual liaisons, displaying the appropriate attitude of narcissistic self-absorption, and expressing a desire to escape the mental straitjacket of all ideological causes. From the late 1940s onward, this popular culture influenced young people all over the world, to the great dismay of the paternalistic elites who still ruled the official culture. The French intelligentsia were outraged, while the British educated classes displayed a haughty indifference that smacked of an older aristocratic cool.\n\nThe new attitude found a special resonance behind the Iron Curtain, where it offered relief from the earnestness of socialist propaganda and socialist realism in art. In the Polish industrial city Łódź, jazz, \"the forbidden music\", served Polish youth of the 1950s much as it had served its African-American creators, both as personal diversion and subterranean resistance to what they saw as a stultifying official culture. Some clubs featured live jazz performances, and their smoky, sexually charged atmosphere carried a message for which the puritanical values and monumental art of Marxist officialdom were an ideal foil.\n\nArriving in Poland via France, America and England, Polish cool stimulated the film talents of a generation of artists, including Andrzej Wajda, Roman Polanski, and other graduates of the National Film School in Łódź, as well as the novelist Jerzy Kosinski, in whose clinical prose cool tends towards the sadistic.\n\nIn Prague, the capital of Bohemia, cool flourished in the faded Art Deco splendor of the Cafe Slavia. Significantly, following the crushing of the Prague Spring by Soviet tanks in 1968, part of the dissident underground called itself the \"Jazz Section\".\n\nAccording to this theory, coolness is a subjective, dynamic, socially-constructed trait, such that coolness is in the eye of the beholder. People perceive things (e.g., other people, products or brands) to be cool based on an inference of “autonomy”. That is, something is perceived to be cool when it follows its own motivations. However, this theory proposes that the level of autonomy that leads to coolness is constrained - inappropriate levels of autonomy, such that the autonomy is too high or opposes a legitimate norm, do not lead to perceptions of coolness. The level of autonomy considered appropriate is influenced by individual difference variables. For example, people who think of societal institutions and authority as unjust or repressive perceive coolness at higher levels of autonomy than those who are less critical of social norms and authority.\n\nAccording to this theory, \"coolness\" is a relative concept. In other words, \"cool\" exists only in comparison with things considered less \"cool\"; for example, in the book \"The Rebel Sell\", \"cool\" is created out of a need for status and distinction. This creates a situation analogous to an arms race, in which \"cool\" is perpetuated by a collective action problem in society.\n\nAccording to this theory, cool is a real, but unknowable property. \"Cool\", like \"Good\", is a property that exists, but can only be sought after. In the \"New Yorker\" article, \"The Coolhunt\", cool is given three characteristics:\n\nAccording to this theory, \"cool\" can be exploited as a manufactured and empty idea imposed on the culture at large through a top-down process by the \"Merchants of Cool\". The \"Merchants of Cool\" are sellers of popular culture who capitalize off of trends and subcultures, most often created by youths. Some modern examples of the \"Merchants of Cool\" are record company executives, sneaker and fashion company branders and merchandisers. Furthermore, \"cool has become the central ideology of consumer capitalism\", the selling of cool thus drives young people and adults attempting to \"fit in\" to the mainstream and adhere to trends to purchase products and/or brands that make them appear cool.\n\nThe concept of cool was used in this way to market menthol cigarettes to African Americans in the 1960s. In 2004 over 70% of African American smokers preferred menthol cigarettes, compared with 30% of white smokers. This unique social phenomenon was principally occasioned by the tobacco industry's manipulation of the burgeoning black, urban, segregated, consumer market in cities at that time. According to Fast Company some large companies have started 'outsourcing cool.' They are paying other \"smaller, more-limber, closer-to-the-ground outsider\" companies to help them keep up with customers' rapidly changing tastes and demands. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "57270824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57270824", "title": "Courts of Metropolitan Magistrates", "text": "Courts of Metropolitan Magistrates\n\nCourts of Metropolitan Magistrates is a type of magistrate courts those are situated in a division headquarter or metropolitan city, found in many countries (e.g., India, Bangladesh). The presiding officers of such Courts get appointed by the High Court.\n\nThe High court appoints Chief Metropolitan Magistrate for every metropolitan court. The High court may also appoint Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate for an area, with all or any of the powers of a Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, as may be directed by the High Court. Other than Chief Metropolitan Magistrate and Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, there are also Metropolitan Magistrates also known as Magistrate of the first class who work as subordinates of Chief Metropolitan Magistrate. Any two or more metropolitan magistrates may, subject to the rules made by the CMM, sit together as a bench. All metropolitan magistrates including the ACMMs and benches of general magistrates are subordinate to the CMM.\n"}
{"id": "4811473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4811473", "title": "Decossackization", "text": "Decossackization\n\nDecossackization (Russian: Расказачивание, \"Raskazachivaniye\") was the Bolshevik policy of systematic repressions against Cossacks of the Russian Empire, especially of the Don and the Kuban, between 1917 and 1933 aimed at the elimination of the Cossacks as a separate ethnic, political, and economic entity. This was the first example of Soviet leaders deciding to \"eliminate, exterminate, and deport the population of a whole territory,\" which they had taken to calling the \"Soviet Vendée\" Most authors characterize decossackization as genocide of the Cossacks, a process described by scholar Peter Holquist as part of a \"ruthless\" and \"radical attempt to eliminate undesirable social groups\" that showed the Soviet regime's \"dedication to social engineering\".\n\nCossacks were simultaneously both an ethnicity and special social estates in the Russian Empire from the 16th to the early 20th century. Because of their military tradition, Cossack forces played an important role in Russia's wars of the 17th–20th centuries such as the Crimean War, Napoleonic Wars, various Russo-Turkish Wars, and the First World War. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the tsarist regime employed Cossack detachments to perform police service and suppress the revolutionary movement, especially in 1905–07.\n\nFollowing the Communist Revolution, a conflict broke out between the new Communist regime in Russia and the Cossacks. In the Don territory, Ataman Kaledin declared that he would \"offer full support, in close alliance with the governments of the other Cossack hosts\" to Kerensky's forces. Establishing ties with the Ukrainian Central Rada and the Kuban, Terek, and Orenburg hosts, Kaledin sought to overthrow Soviet regime in Russia. On 15 November 1917 Generals Kornilov, Alekseev and Denikin began to organize the Volunteer Army in Novocherkassk. Imposing martial law, Kaledin moved in late November. On December 15, after a seven-day battle, they occupied Rostov. However, on February 25, Bolshevik troops occupied Rostov and Novocherkassk. The remnants of the White Cossacks, headed by Ataman Popov, fled into the Salsk steppes.\n\nAfter the German forces invaded and occupied Rostov on May 8, a government headed by Ataman Krasnov was formed in the Don province. In July 1918, the White Cossack forces of Ataman Krasnov launched their first invasion of Tsaritsyn. Soviet forces counterattacked and drove out the White Cossacks by September 7. On September 22, Krasnov's forces launched a second invasion of Tsaritsyn but by October 25, Krasnov's forces were thrown back beyond the Don by Soviet troops. On January 1, 1919, Krasnov launched a third invasion of Tsaritsyn. Soviet forces repelled the invasion and forced Krasnov's forces to withdraw from Tsaritsyn in mid-February 1919.\n\nThe policy was established by a secret resolution of the Bolshevik Party on January 24, 1919, which ordered local branches to \"carry out mass terror against wealthy Cossacks, exterminating all of them; carry out merciless mass terror against any and all Cossacks taking part in any way, directly or indirectly, in the struggle against Soviet power\". On 7 February the Southern Front issued its own instructions on how the resolution was to be applied: \"The main duty of stanitsa and khutor executive committees is to neutralize the Cossackry through the merciless extirpation of its elite. District and Stanitsa atamans are subject to unconditional elimination, [but] khutor atamans should be subject to execution only in those cases where it can be proved that they actively supported Krasnov's policies (having organized pacification, conducted mobilization, refused to offer refuge to revolutionary Cossacks or to Red Army men).\" \n\nIn mid-March 1919 alone, Cheka forces executed more than 8,000 Cossacks. In each \"stanitsa,\" summary judgements were passed by revolutionary courts within minutes, and whole lists of people were condemned to execution for \"counterrevolutionary behavior.\" \n\nThe Don region was required by the Soviets to make a grain contribution equal to the total annual production of the area. Almost all Cossacks joined the Green Army or other rebel forces. Together with Baron Wrangel's troops, they forced the Red Army out of the region in August 1920. After the retaking of the Crimea by Red Army, the Cossacks again became victims of the Red Terror. Special commissions in charge of decossackization condemned more than 6,000 people to death in October 1920 alone. The families and often the neighbors of suspected rebels were taken as hostages and sent to concentration camps. According to Martin Latsis who led the Ukrainian Cheka: \n\"Gathered together in a camp near Maikop, the hostages, women, children and old men survive in the most appalling conditions, in the cold and the mud of October... They are dying like flies. The women will do anything to escape death. The soldiers guarding the camp take advantage of this and treat them as prostitutes.\"\nIn November 1920 Feliks Dzerzhinsky, head of the Cheka, reported to Lenin:\nthe republic has to organize the internment in camps of about 100,000 prisoners from the Southern front and vast masses of people expelled from the rebellious [Cossack] settlements of the Terek, the Kuban, and the Don. Today 403 Cossack men and women aged between 14 and 17 arrived in Oryol for internment in concentration camp. They cannot be accepted as Oryol is already overloaded.\nThe Pyatigorsk Cheka organized a \"day of Red Terror\" to execute 300 people in one day. They ordered local Communist Party organizations to draw up execution lists. According to one of the chekists, \"this rather unsatisfactory method led to a great deal of private settling of old scores. ... In Kislovodsk, for lack of a better idea, it was decided to kill people who were in the hospital.\" Many Cossack towns were burned to the ground, and all survivors deported on the orders by Sergo Ordzhonikidze who was head of the Revolutionary Committee of the Northern Caucasus.\n\nUniversity of York Russian specialist Shane O'Rourke states that \"ten thousand Cossacks were slaughtered systematically in a few weeks in January 1919\" and that this \"was one of the main factors which led to the disappearance of the Cossacks as a nation\". The late Alexander Nikolaevich Yakovlev, head of the Presidential Committee for the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression, notes that \"hundreds of thousands of Cossacks were killed\". Historian Robert Gellately claims that \"the most reliable estimates indicate that between 300,000 and 500,000 were killed or deported in 1919–20\" out of a population of around three million.\n\nPeter Holquist states the overall number of executions is difficult to establish. In some regions hundreds were executed. In Khoper, the tribunal was very active, with a one-month total of 226 executions. The Tsymlianskaia tribunal oversaw the execution of over 700 people. The Kotel'nikovo tribunal executed 117 in early May and nearly 1,000 overall. Others were not quite as active. The Berezovskaia tribunal made a total of twenty arrests in a community of 13,500 people. Holquist also notes that some of White reports of Red atrocities in the Don were consciously scripted for agitation purposes. In one example, an insurgent leader reported that 140 were executed in Bokovskaia, but later provided a different account, according to which only eight people in Bokovskaia were sentenced to death, and the authorities did not manage to carry these sentences out. This same historian emphasises he is \"not seeking to downplay or dismiss very real executions by the Soviets\".\n\nResearch by Pavel Polian from Russian Academy of Sciences on the subject of forced migrations in Russia shows that more than 45,000 Cossacks were deported from the Terek province to Ukraine. Their land was distributed among pro-soviet Cossacks and Chechens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22674117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22674117", "title": "Democratic Freedom Caucus", "text": "Democratic Freedom Caucus\n\nThe Democratic Freedom Caucus (DFC) is a freedom-oriented political action organization within the Democratic Party of the United States that supports basic principles of the party, but does not necessarily share identical viewpoints across the political spectrum; that is, its members are more likely to support individual and personal freedoms and address the basic causes of economic problems instead of just treating the symptoms. Founded in 1996 by Hanno Beck, Mike O'Mara and former libertarian Andrew Spark, the caucus maintains a platform, a list of principles, a guide for activists and includes 40 state chairs and regional representatives.\n\nThe DFC's positions have some important differences from the Republican Liberty Caucus (RLC) and Libertarian Party (LP) because the DFC's economic views are in the tradition of John Locke, Thomas Jefferson, John Stuart Mill, Albert Jay Nock and various modern economists who point out how land and natural resources act very differently in the economy than labor and products of human effort.\n\nOne significant difference from the RLC and LP is the DFC's promotion of geolibertarian ideas within the Democratic Party because of their position in favor of tax reform that shifts taxes off of labor and production and over to spatial locations of land and the natural resources in land.\n\nUnlike other major libertarian organizations, the DFC favors strong environmental laws on the basis that the air and water are natural resources which no person produced and which everyone must use. The DFC also favors repeal of the Price–Anderson Act, which limits liability for nuclear power plant accidents.\n\nThe DFC also favors laws on workplace safety and believes it is fraudulent to misrepresent workplace hazards or mislead employees as to the dangers they may face.\n\nSimilarly, the DFC believes it fraudulent to misrepresent the safety or effectiveness of items or services being offered to the general public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32237236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32237236", "title": "Dubai Debates", "text": "Dubai Debates\n\nDubai Debates is an online video debating forum based in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. According to its website, Dubai Debates offers \"a platform for online opinion leaders, pundits, academics, journalists, politicians, activists and all interested users to exchange ideas through videos.\" In addition to video debating via its website, regular debates are also held in Dubai, bringing together opinion leaders for panel discussions.\n\nThe series was launched in early February 2011, in the midst of the Egyptian revolution. According to The National newspaper, the founder of Dubai Debates, Belabbes Benkredda, \"drew inspiration from how opinions were circulated on Twitter and Facebook during the Tunisian and Egyptian uprisings.\" Dubai Debates was conceived as a contribution to the global discourse in social media, adding a video element and putting a face to the people shaping that discourse. And\n\nA conflicting report in the New York Times states that Dubai Debates was conceived as a reaction to a Doha Debates panel on the motion \"Dubai is a bad idea\", held on 14 December 2009.\n\nThe first Dubai Debates panel discussion was held on 23 February 2011.\n\nA current debate topic is defined and announced through the Dubai Debates website, its YouTube channel, as well as on its Twitter and Facebook feeds. At the same time, a date is announced for a panel debate on the respective issue. Interested users are then requested to submit their video contributions to the topic, which are all featured on the website and on YouTube.\n\nThe panel sessions are split into thematic segments, each representing a specific question. All debates are video-filmed and made available after the event on DubaiDebates.com and YouTube. During the panel session, selected videos uploaded by outside contributors are shown. A Twitter hashtag is defined, allowing live discussions about the panel to be incorporated into the discussion. The number of segments was six for the first two editions of Dubai Debates, each between 6–9 minutes in length.\n\nThe inaugural Dubai Debates topic was \"Mark Zuckerberg - the New Hero of the Arab People?\". A panel session on the topic was held on 23 February at the Media One Hotel in Dubai. Participants included Mahmoud Salem, the award-winning Egyptian blogger widely known as Sandmonkey, as well as Daniel Gerlach of Zenith Magazine, Al Arabiya TV anchor Mahmoud Abu Obeid, and American University of Sharjah scholar Mohammed Ibahrine. The debate was filmed and widely viewed on the Internet since. The Goethe Institute was one of the first supporters of the debate.\n\nThe second Dubai Debates topic was announced through Twitter on 12 May 2011 as \"After the Arab Awakening: Opportunities and Challenges for a New Arab World\". A panel debate on 31 May was initially planned to be held in co-operation with the American University in Dubai (AUD), in the main auditorium. On 28 May, three days before the debate, the event was moved to the Kempinski Hotel Dubai and co-operation with AUD terminated without further comment.\n\nPanelists at Dubai Debates 2 have been described as \"star academics\" and included:\n\n\nThe debate was moderated by Matt J. Duffy, a media scholar from Zayed University.\n\nThe debate was composed of the following six segments:\n\nDubai Debates 2 was supported by the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, a think tank connected to German Chancellor Angela Merkel's CDU party, as well as CNN International. There was an audience of 200 guests.\n\nThe latest Dubai Debates 3 took place at Knowledge Village Conference Centre in Dubai on 16 November. The panel of speakers constituted Michael Peel, Middle East Correspondent for the Financial Times, Robin Mills, Expert on Middle East energy strategy and economics to Dubai Government and columnist for The National and formerly Shell’s expert on Iran, Kate Dorian Middle East editor covering energy developments throughout the Persian Gulf and North Africa for Platts. The moderator for Who’s got the power? The future of energy in the Arabian Gulf’ was Mishaal Al Gergawi a current affairs and commentator for Gulf News.\n\nThe topic attracted students from Abu Dhabi (home of Masdar) at the universities of Sorbonne and New York. Bjørn Lomborg Director, Copenhagen Consensus Center. Author of 'Cool It' and 'Skeptical Environmentalist' also took part via Skype and posed his questions to the panel.\n\nDubai Debates 3 was divided into the following six segments:\n\n\nThe next debate is due to take place on 18 December on After the Arab Awakening: Women, Civil Society and Leadership in the New Arab World at Knowledge Village.\n\nIn cooperation with Vital Voices Global Partnership, Konrad Adenauer Stiftung and CNN International, Dubai Debates held its fourth edition on the topic Women, Civil Society and Leadership in the New Arab World. The panel brought together Amira Yahyaoui, a Tunisian blogger, Dr. Ebtisam Al Kitbi, professor of political science at UAE University, and Mohamed Abu Obeid a Palestinian women’s rights advocate and a TV presenter on Al Arabiya on 18 December 2011, for the first debate in Arabic language simultaneously translated into English, at the Dubai Knowledge Village Auditorium. The panel was moderated by Gulf News columnist Mishaal Al Gergawi.\n\nThe debate consisted of five motions, after each the audience voted. The motions were\n\n\nVideo contributors via Skype included Ms Almas Jiwani, Head of the UN Committee on Women in Canada and Manal Sharif a Saudi Arabian Women's rights activist.\n"}
{"id": "49032513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49032513", "title": "Firearm Owners' Privacy Act", "text": "Firearm Owners' Privacy Act\n\nThe Firearm Owners' Privacy Act (often abbreviated FOPA) is a law passed by the Florida Legislature in 2011 in response to concerns raised by Floridians whose physicians asked them about gun ownership. The law bans doctors in the state from asking their patients about guns, and from entering information about guns into patients' medical records. However, doctors are allowed to do both of these things under the law provided they believe it is relevant to the medical care or safety of their patients or the safety of others. The law also prevents physicians from denying care to patients if they do not answer questions about guns. Soon after the law was signed by Governor Rick Scott on June 2, 2011, several physicians and physician organizations filed a lawsuit in federal court challenging it.\n\nOn June 29, 2012, United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida judge Marcia G. Cooke issued a permanent injunction against FOPA on the basis that it unduly burdened physicians' right to free speech. Governor Scott responded by filing an appeal of Cooke's ruling, which sent the case to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. In 2014, in Wollschlaeger v. Governor of Florida, a three-judge panel on the Eleventh Circuit reversed Cooke's injunction; the author of the ruling wrote that \"the practice of good medicine does not require interrogation about irrelevant, private matters.\" In July 2015, a majority of Eleventh Circuit judges voted to re-hear Wollschlaeger v. Governor of Florida; on June 21, 2016, the Circuit heard arguments in the case.\n\nOn February 16, 2017, the en banc Eleventh Circuit, issuing two majority opinions, ruled that three of the law's four provisions—the anti-harassment, record-keeping, and inquiry provisions—violate the First Amendment. The court further interpreted one provision of the law, barring physician discrimination against patients who own guns, not to regulate speech, upholding the provision on that basis.\n"}
{"id": "9495534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9495534", "title": "Four Policemen", "text": "Four Policemen\n\nThe term \"Four Policemen\" refers to a post-war council consisting of the Big Four that U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt proposed as a guarantor of world peace. The members of the Big Four, called the Four Powers during World War II, were the four major Allies of World War II: the United Kingdom, the United States, the Soviet Union and China. The United Nations envisioned by Roosevelt consisted of three branches: an executive branch comprising the Big Four, an enforcement branch composed of the same four great powers acting as the Four Policemen or Four Sheriffs, and an international assembly representing the member nations of the UN.\n\nAs a compromise with internationalist critics, the Big Four nations became the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, with significantly less power than envisioned in the Four Policemen proposal. When the United Nations was officially established in later 1945, France was in due course added as the fifth member of the council at that time due to the insistence of Churchill.\n\nDuring World War II, President Roosevelt initiated post-war plans for the creation of a new and more durable international organization that would replace the former League of Nations. Prior to the war, Roosevelt had initially been a supporter of the League of Nations, but he lost confidence in the League due to its ineffectiveness at preventing the outbreak of the second World War. Roosevelt wanted to create an international organization that secured global peace through the unified efforts of the world's great powers, rather than through the Wilsonian notions of international consensus and collaboration that guided the League of Nations. By 1935, he told his foreign policy adviser Sumner Welles: \"The League of Nations has become nothing more than a debating society, and a poor one at that!\"\n\nRoosevelt criticized the League of Nations for representing the interests of too many nations. The President said to the Soviet foreign minister Vyacheslav Molotov that \"he could not visualize another League of Nations with 100 different signatories; there were simply too many nations to satisfy, hence it was a failure and would be a failure\". Roosevelt's proposal in 1941 was to create a new international body led by a \"trusteeship\" of great powers that would oversee smaller countries. In September 1941, he wrote:\n\nThe State Department had begun drafting a postwar successor to the League of Nations under the auspices of Roosevelt while the United States was still formally a neutral power. Roosevelt was reluctant to publicly announce his plans for creating a postwar international body. He was aware of the risk that the American public might reject his proposals, and he did not want to repeat Woodrow Wilson's struggle to convince the Senate to approve American membership in the League of Nations. When the Atlantic Charter was issued in August 1941, Roosevelt had ensured that the charter omitted mentioning any American commitment towards the establishment of a new international body after the war. The attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941 led to a change in Roosevelt's position. He transformed his trusteeship proposal into an organization centered around the Four Policemen: the United States, China, the Soviet Union, and Britain.\n\nThe idea that great powers should \"police\" the world had been discussed by President Roosevelt as early as August 1941, during his first meeting with Winston Churchill. Roosevelt made his first references to the Four Policemen proposal in early 1942. He presented his postwar plans to Molotov, who had arrived in Washington on May 29 to discuss the possibility of launching a second front in Europe. Roosevelt told Molotov that the Big Four must unite after the war to police the world and disarm aggressor states. When Molotov asked about the role of other countries, Roosevelt answered by opining that too many \"policemen\" could lead to infighting, but he was open to the idea of allowing other allied countries to participate. A memorandum of the conference summarizes their conversation:\n\nRoosevelt and Molotov continued their discussion of the Four Policemen in a second meeting on June 1. Molotov informed the President that Stalin was willing to support Roosevelt's plans for maintaining postwar peace through the Four Policemen and enforced disarmament. Roosevelt also raised the issue of postwar decolonization. He suggested that former colonies should undergo a period of transition under the governance of an international trusteeship prior to their independence.\n\nChina was brought in as a member of the Big Four and a future member of the Four Policemen. Roosevelt was in favor of recognizing China as a great power because he was certain that the Chinese would side with the Americans against the Soviets. He said to British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden, \"In any serious conflict of policy with Russia, [China] would undoubtedly line up on our side.\" The President believed that a pro-American China would be useful for the United States should the Americans, Soviets, and Chinese agree to jointly occupy Japan and Korea after the war. When Molotov voiced concerns about the stability of China, Roosevelt responded by saying that the combined \"population of our nations and friends was well over a billion people.\"\n\nChurchill objected to Roosevelt's inclusion of China as one of the Big Four because he feared that the Americans were trying to undermine Britain's colonial holdings in Asia. In October 1942, Churchill told Eden that Republican China represented a \"faggot vote on the side of the United States in any attempt to liquidate the British overseas empire.\" Eden shared this view with Churchill and expressed skepticism that China, which was then in the midst of a civil war, could ever return to a stable nation. Roosevelt responded to Churchill's criticism by telling Eden that \"China might become a very useful power in the Far East to help police Japan\" and that he was fully supportive of offering more aid to China.\n\nRoosevelt's Four Policemen proposal received criticism from the liberal internationalists, who wanted power to be more evenly distributed among the member nations of the UN. Internationalists were concerned that the Four Policemen could lead to a new Quadruple Alliance.\n\nOn New Year's Day 1942, the representatives of Allied \"Big Four\", the United States, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union and China, signed a short document which later came to be known as the Declaration by United Nations and the next day the representatives of twenty-two other nations added their signatures.\nA new plan for the United Nations was drafted by the State Department in April 1944. It kept the emphasis on great power solidarity that was central to Roosevelt's Four Policemen proposal for the United Nations. The members of the Big Four would serve as permanent members of the United Nation's Security Council. Each of the four permanent members would be given a United Nations Security Council veto power, which would override any UN resolution that went against the interests of one of the Big Four. However, the State Department had compromised with the liberal internationalists. Membership eligibility was widened to include all nation states fighting against the Axis powers instead of a select few. The Dumbarton Oaks Conference convened in August 1944 to discuss plans for the postwar United Nations with delegations from the United States, United Kingdom, Soviet Union, and China. The Big Four were the only four sponsoring countries of the San Francisco Conference of 1945 and their heads of the delegations took turns as chairman of the plenary meetings. During this conference, the Big Four and their allies signed the United Nations Charter.\n\nIn the words of a former Undersecretary General of the UN, Sir Brian Urquhart:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43513617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43513617", "title": "Frank Lascelles (pageant master)", "text": "Frank Lascelles (pageant master)\n\nFrank William Thomas Charles Lascelles (30 July 1875 – 23 May 1934) was a British pageant master and artist, known as the \"man who staged the Empire.\"\n\nLascelles was born in the Oxfordshire village of Sibford Gower with the surname of Stevens, the son of Rev. Edward Thomas Stevens, the village priest. He was educated at the village school before attending Keble College, Oxford, where he became the most notable member of Oxford's dramatic society. After Oxford, he worked as an actor in London between 1904 and 1906 at Sir Herbert Beerbohm Tree's His Majesty's theatre. It was during this time that he changed his name from Stevens to Lascelles.\n\nLascelles staged his first pageant in 1907. The Oxford Historical was a success, despite initial reservations by the University authorities and a student riot. The following year he organised the celebrations for the Tercentenary of Canada at Quebec City. Lascelles enlisted the services of the Iroquois and was made an honorary chief under the name of Tehonikonraka, \"the man of infinite resource\". In 1909 he Master of Pageantry at the celebration of the opening of the Union Parliament of South Africa in Cape Town. The following year he organised the Pageant of London, performed by a cast of 15,000. In 1912 Lascelles was Master of the Pageant at the Coronation Durbar at Calcutta with the participation of over 300,000 Indians and British Army troops. In 1923 he was Master of the Harrow Pageant and the following year Master of the Bristol Pageant (Cradle of the Empire) and the Pageant of Empire at the British Empire Exhibition. Lascelles' imperial triumphs earned him the epithet \"the man who staged the empire\".\n\nHe was also a sculptor, and among his subjects were the Prince of Wales, the Duke of Connaught, Earl Grey and the Aga Khan. Several of his sculptures are displayed in prominent positions across the former Empire. He sculpted a memorial to his mother in the church at Sibford Gower, as well as painting a Roll of Honour. He also contributed prose and verse to periodicals. In 1932 the Earl of Darnley compiled \"Our Modern Orpheus\", a volume of essays paying tribute to Lascelles.\n\nLascelles had always been anxious to hide his humble origins, and built a new manor house for himself in Sibford Gower, modeled on a medieval design. He was well-connected, and regularly entertained guests such as Ivor Novello, who wrote the popular song \"Keep the Home Fires Burning\" while staying with Lascelles in Sibford.\n\nTowards the end of his life, ill health restricted Lascelles' finances and he died in poverty on 23 May 1934 in rented rooms in Brighton. He never married.\n"}
{"id": "48464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48464", "title": "Frederick Augustus I of Saxony", "text": "Frederick Augustus I of Saxony\n\nFrederick Augustus I (full name: \"Frederick Augustus Joseph Maria Anthony John Nepomuk Aloysius Xavier\"; ; ; 23 December 1750 – 5 May 1827) was a member of the House of Wettin who reigned as Elector of Saxony from 1763 to 1806 (as Frederick Augustus III) and as King of Saxony from 1806 to 1827. He also served as Duke of Warsaw from 1807 to 1813.\n\nSucceeding his father in 1763 as the elector Frederick Augustus III, he brought order and efficiency to his country's finances and administration. In foreign policy, he was neutralist but drifted towards Prussia, whose side he took in the Bavarian succession dispute (1778–79), when it prevented Bavaria's cession to Austria. For his cooperation he received substantial financial compensation from Prussia. In 1785, Frederick Augustus joined the Prussian-sponsored Fürstenbund (League of Princes), but remained neutral during the Austro-Prussian dispute in 1790. Offered the Polish crown in 1791, he declined as he feared that his \"risky\" politics may cause further damage to the Polish state, which was already weak and eventually stopped existing in 1795. The next year Saxony reluctantly joined the coalition against Revolutionary France but was defeated by 1796. Again entering the struggle on Prussia's side in 1806, after the decisive defeat at Jena in the same year, Frederick Augustus made peace with Napoleon, which secured the title of king of Saxony for him. A year later, Napoleon secured the Duchy of Warsaw for him. Frederick Augustus remained a loyal ally to France even after the disastrous Russian campaign (1812–13). Although he had started half-hearted negotiations with Austria, he broke them off after the French victory at Lützen (May 1813). In the Battle of Leipzig (October 1813), however, his troops went over to Prussia and he was taken as prisoner to Berlin. At the Congress of Vienna in 1815, Frederick Augustus lost three-fifths of his territory to Prussia. He spent the rest of his life attempting to rehabilitate his truncated state.\n\nThroughout his political career Frederick Augustus tried to rehabilitate and recreate the Polish state that was torn apart and stopped existing after the final partition of Poland in 1795, however he did not succeed - for this he would blame himself for the rest of his life. Nevertheless, his efforts for reestablishing an independent Polish nation did endear him to the Polish people.\n\nThe Augustusplatz in Leipzig is named after him.\n\nHe was the second (but eldest surviving) son of Frederick Christian, Elector of Saxony, and Maria Antonia Walpurgis of Bavaria, Princess of Bavaria. Because he was underage at the time of the death of his father in 1763, his mother served as Regent until 1768. His uncle Prince Franz Xavier functioned as his representative.\n\nIn 1765 Prince Franz Xavier ceded the Polish throne to Stanisław II Augustus on behalf of the underage Elector. Frederick Augustus was named successor to Stanislaw, however, when a Polish Constitution was ratified by the Polish Sejm. At the same time, the head of the Saxon Royal House was established as heir to the Polish throne (Article VII of the Polish Constitution). Frederick Augustus declined to accept the crown upon Stanislaw's death in 1798, because he feared becoming entangled in disputes with Austria, Prussia and Russia, who had begun to partition Poland in 1772. As a matter of fact, a full partition of Poland among the neighboring powers of Austria, Prussia, and Russia had already taken place by 1795.\n\nIn August 1791, Frederick Augustus arranged a meeting with Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II and King Friedrich Wilhelm II of Prussia at Pillnitz Castle that was intended partly to offer support for the French monarchy in the face of revolutionary agitation in France. The Declaration of Pillnitz warned of the possibility of military action against the French revolutionary government, a provocation that provided it with grounds to declare war on Austria in April 1792. Frederick Augustus himself did not sign the Declaration.\n\nSaxony wanted nothing to do with the defensive alliance against France formed between Austria and Prussia. Nonetheless, a proclamation of the Reichstag of the Holy Roman Empire issued in March 1793 obligated Frederick Augustus to take part. There was great concern in Saxony in April 1795 when Prussia suddenly concluded a separate peace with France in order to facilitate the partition of Poland. Saxony dropped out of the coalition against France in August 1796 after France had advanced east into the German lands and additional conditions for the Holy Roman Empire to conclude a separate peace were agreed to.\n\nBoth the peace agreement with France and Saxony's participation in the Congress of Rastatt in 1797 served to demonstrate Frederick Augustus' loyalty to the conventional constitutional principles of the Holy Roman Empire. The Congress of Rastatt was supposed to authorize the surrender of left bank areas of the Rhine to France in return for compensation for the rulers who were relinquishing their territories. Saxony refused to agree to territorial adjustments that were designed to benefit Bavaria, Prussia, Württemberg, and Baden at the Congress of Rastatt and in 1803 at the issuance of the Final Report of the Empire Delegation [the law of the Holy Roman Empire that laid out the new order of the Empire].\n\nFrederick Augustus also did not participate in the creation of the Confederation of the Rhine, which led to the final dissolution of the Holy Roman Empire. With respect to the Prussian idea of a north German empire, within which Saxony was supposed to be raised to a kingdom, he appeared reserved. However, when Napoleon advanced as far as Thuringia after September 1806 in response to the Berlin Ultimatum, which demanded the withdrawal of French troops from the left bank of the Rhine, Frederick Augustus joined with Prussia. At the twin battles of Jena and Auerstedt in 1806 the Prussian – Saxon troops suffered a crushing defeat at the hands of Napoleon. Separated from Prussia, whose state and army leadership withdrew headlong to the east, left without any information concerning Prussian intentions, and with Napoleon's troops about to occupy Saxony, Frederick Augustus had to conclude peace. On 11 December 1806 in Poznań a treaty was signed by authorized representatives of both sides. Saxony was forced to join the Confederation of the Rhine and had to surrender areas of Thuringia to the recently organized Kingdom of Westphalia. As compensation, Saxony was given the area around Cottbus and was raised to the status of a kingdom alongside the Confederation states of Bavaria and Württemberg.\n\nFrederick Augustus was proclaimed king of Saxony on 20 December 1806. After the Treaty of Tilsit, which Frederick William III of Prussia and Czar Alexander I of Russia concluded with Napoleon in July 1807, Frederick Augustus was also named duke of Warsaw. Although he had rejected the offer of the kingdom of Poland in 1795 by the Sejm, he could not refuse a Polish title a second time.\n\nThe Constitution of the Duchy of Warsaw, which Napoleon dictated to Saxony, joined the Duchy of Warsaw hereditarily to the Royal House of Saxony in Article V, which was linked to the Polish Constitution of 1791. Geopolitically the Duchy of Warsaw comprised the areas of the 2nd and 3rd Prussian partitions (1795), with the exception of Danzig (Gdańsk), which was made into the Free City of Danzig under joint French and Saxon \"protection\", and the district around Białystok, which was given to Russia. The area of Prussian control was made up of territory from the former Prussian provinces of New East Prussia, Southern Prussia, New Silesia, and West Prussia. In addition, the new state was given the area along the Noteć river and the \"Land of Chełmno\".\n\nAltogether, the Duchy had an initial area of around 104,000 km², with a population of approximately 2,600,000. The bulk of its inhabitants were Poles.\n\nIn 1809, Austria was successfully defeated by Polish–Saxon troops after it attempted to take possession of the Duchy and for its part had to cede to the Duchy of Warsaw Polish regions absorbed up to 1795, among them the old Polish royal city of Kraków. In July 1812 Frederick Augustus ratified a proclamation of the Polish Parliament that restored the Kingdom of Poland. Napoleon lodged a protest against this action.\n\nIn 1813 during the German Campaign of 1813, Saxony found itself in a more difficult situation than many other warring states. The country was still solidly in Napoleon's grip and at the same time had become the central arena of the war. In the autumn of 1813 at the start of the Battle of Leipzig (Battle of Nations) the local population of Saxony, which tallied about 2 million, saw almost a million soldiers brought to its territories. Napoleon openly threatened to consider Saxony as enemy territory and treat it accordingly should Frederick Augustus change sides. Frederick Augustus' room for maneuver was consequently greatly limited. He did not want to put the country's well-being into play frivolously. At the same time, he still remembered vividly the way in which Prussia had simply abandoned him in 1806.\n\nIn this difficult situation the King attempted to enter cautiously into an alliance with the Sixth Coalition in 1813 without risking a public break with Napoleon and a declaration of war. As the Prussian and Russian troops entered Saxony in the spring, the King first moved to the south in order to avoid a direct encounter and pursued an alliance with Austria secretly from Regensburg. The Saxon-Austrian Pact was concluded on 20 April and the King made the Prussian and Russian allies aware of it at the same time. Napoleon, from whom Frederick Augustus was not able to keep the diplomatic maneuvers concealed, summoned the King urgently to Saxony after he had defeated the Prussian-Russian troops at Lützen on 2 May. Frederick Augustus decided to comply with the ultimatum presented to him. With no prospect of concrete assistance from Austria, and in view of the defeat of the Prussian – Russian coalition, which now sent peace signals to France, he felt he had no choice.\n\nFrederick Augustus' decision brought the country scarcely any relief. Napoleon, angered at the near defection of the King and at the same time dependent upon the full mobilization of all available forces against the Coalition troops, harshly demanded the full resources of Saxony. In addition, the country suffered under the changing fortunes of war and associated movements and quartering. At the end of August the Allies failed again to defeat Napoleon at the Battle of Dresden. Meanwhile, Saxony became the principal arena of war and Dresden the midpoint of the French army movements. Not until 9 September in Teplice (in the present-day Czech Republic) did Austria conclude its alliance with Prussia and Russia. As Napoleon's troops in Saxony formed up for the retreat before the expanded coalition, the first defectors from the Saxon army to the allies came in September.\n\nFrederick Augustus was mistrustful of Prussia in view of the experiences of the spring and arguably disappointed as well by Austria's decision not to join the Coalition immediately, especially while the country was exposed as before to French domination. Thus he chose not to break with Napoleon. At the Battle of Leipzig [Battle of Nations] the Saxon as well as the Polish troops fought on the side of Napoleon. In view of the apparent defeat of the French, even larger Saxon troop formations went over to the Coalition during the battle, whereas the Polish troops were largely annihilated.\n\nAt the deliberations of the Congress of Vienna in 1814 and 1815, Frederick Augustus' position was doomed by his country's difficult geographic position, the changing fortunes of war, a lack of assistance from Austria, and his own hesitant attitude. The Prussian-Russian alliance had never had an honorable intention in bringing Saxony into the anti-Napoleon alliance in the first place. Even before Prussia declared war on France on 17 March 1813, it had agreed to an alliance with Russia to the detriment of Saxony and Poland at Kalisz on 22 February: the Duchy of Poland would predominantly come under Russian rule, whereas Prussia would be compensated for relinquished Polish territories with the annexation of Saxon territory. Prussia's appetite for the economically and culturally more developed territories of Saxony originated in the old dream of annexation that Frederick II had developed in his political testament of 1752 and had already tried to realize in the Seven Years' War. It did not originate from any necessity to overcome Napoleonic rule in central Europe.\n\nAfter the Battle of Leipzig the Prussian-Russian alliance showed no interest in an alliance with the Saxon king in the wider struggle against Napoleon irrespective of offers of support from Frederick Augustus. Rather, the King was taken into captivity to Friedrichsfelde near Berlin and placed under Russian-Prussian custody in the name of a \"General Government of High Allied Powers.\"\n\nThe forceful manner of Prussian minister Baron von Stein, not the government administered by Russian Prince Repnin until November 1814 or the subsequent Prussian occupying force that lasted to June 1815, were responsible for the low morale in Saxony at the end of the Napoleonic Wars. In contrast to the representatives of France, Frederick Augustus was denied participation at the Congress of Vienna as punishment for his supposed role as the quasi- deputy of his former ally Napoleon. Certainly nothing other than the intention of Prussia and Russia to carry out the annexation plans agreed to in Kalisz was responsible for this treatment of the Saxon king. That Saxony was not completely abandoned can be attributed to the fear of Austria and France of an overly-strengthened Prussia. Because the Saxon question threatened to break up the Congress, the allies finally agreed to divide Saxony (7 January 1815) with the mediation of the Czar.\n\nFrederick Augustus delayed his agreement to the division of his country after he was released from a Prussian prison in February 1815. Since the King had no choice, he finally gave in, and on 18 May consented to the peace treaty laid before him by Prussia and Russia. With the signing of the treaty on 21 May 1815, 57% of Saxon territory and 42% of the Saxon population was turned over to Prussia.\n\nPlaces and areas that had been connected to the Saxon landscape for hundreds of years became completely foreign, absorbed in part into artificially created administrative regions. Examples include Wittenberg, the old capital of the Saxon Elector State during the Holy Roman Empire, and seat of the National University made famous by Martin Luther and Melanchthon (which was already done away with in 1817 by means of a merger with the Prussian University of Halle), and Torgau, birthplace and place of residence of the Elector Frederick the Wise, which was incorporated into one of the new hybrids created by Prussia under the name Province of Saxony. Lower Lusatia, which like Upper Lusatia had preserved its constitutional autonomy under Saxon rule, was incorporated into the Province of Brandenburg and ceased to exist as a state. Upper Lusatia was arbitrarily divided: the area assigned to Prussia, including Görlitz, was added to the Province of Silesia; these areas also lost their constitutional autonomy.\n\nOn 22 May 1815 Frederick Augustus abdicated as ruler of the Duchy of Warsaw, whose territory was annexed mainly to Russia, but also partly to Prussia and Austria. In the area assigned to Russia, a Kingdom of Poland was created to join in a hereditary union with the Czars. The old royal city of Kraków no longer belonged to the new kingdom, and became a separate republic. The internal autonomy that it enjoyed at first was abolished in 1831 after the Polish Uprising.\n\nWhen Frederick returned home to Saxony in July 1815 he was greeted enthusiastically throughout the land. Numerous expressions of loyalty also reached the king from the ceded territories, where the populace regarded the new rulers coolly; shortly thereafter the notion of being \"mandatory-Prussian\" began to circulate. In Liège, where the majority of the regiments of the Saxon Army had been stationed since the beginning of 1815, there was a revolt at the end of April. At the behest of the Prussian king, Generalfeldmarschall Blücher was to discharge the soldiers who came from the annexed territories, but Frederick Augustus' men had not yet made their departure, and the Saxon soldiers rioted over it. Blücher had to flee the city and was able to put down the revolt only by calling up additional Prussian troops.\n\nPublic opinion in Saxony lay decisively on Frederick Augustus' side at the time of his return. There was a feeling that Prussian policies were too ruthless both against the country and the king. The avarice of special interests in Berlin came across all too clearly as the rewards of the War of Liberation were distributed.\n\nThe last twelve years of Frederick Augustus' government passed largely quietly. The conservative character of the king, which in foreign policy up to 1806 had manifested itself in unconditional loyalty to Saxon interests, hardened even more after the experience of Napoleonic hegemony. With respect to political reform the King achieved little. Until his death in 1827, which falls on the same date as Napoleon's death anniversary, little was altered in the constitutional regulation of the Saxon state. To be sure, the king failed to do so out of respect for the rights of the remaining Lusatian upper classes. Just as little came of the desire of many people to transform the existing political system to accommodate a genuine legislature. There was scarcely any lessening of admiration for the old king who had overseen the destiny of Saxony for more than half a century. During his lifetime he gained the name \"The Just\". Resentment over the delayed economic and social rebuilding of the country was to be felt by his brother, King Anton.\n\nFrederick Augustus was entombed in the Roman Catholic Cathedral of Dresden.\n\nIn Mannheim on 17 January 1769 (by proxy) and again in Dresden on 29 January 1769 (in person), Frederick Augustus married the Countess Palatine (\"Pfalzgräfin\") Amalie of Zweibrücken-Birkenfeld, sister of King Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria. During their marriage, Amalia gave birth to four children, but only one daughter survived to adulthood:\n\n\nHe had an illegitimate daughter, which was born out of a relationship of Friedrick Augustus with the daughter of a Jewish court financier in Dresden.\nWithout surviving male issue, Frederick Augustus was succeeded as King of Saxony by his younger brother Anton.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "644624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=644624", "title": "Goldwater–Nichols Act", "text": "Goldwater–Nichols Act\n\nThe Goldwater–Nichols Department of Defense Reorganization Act of October 4, 1986 , (signed by President Ronald Reagan), made the most sweeping changes to the United States Department of Defense since the department was established in the National Security Act of 1947 by reworking the command structure of the United States military. It increased the powers of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and implemented some of the suggestions from the Packard Commission, commissioned by President Reagan in 1985. Among other changes, Goldwater–Nichols streamlined the military chain of command, which now runs from the President through the Secretary of Defense directly to combatant commanders (CCDRs, all four-star generals or admirals), bypassing the service chiefs. The service chiefs were assigned to an advisory role to the President and the Secretary of Defense as well as given the responsibility for training and equipping personnel for the unified combatant commands.\n\nNamed after Senator Barry Goldwater (R-Arizona) and Representative William Flynt \"Bill\" Nichols (D-Alabama), the bill passed the House of Representatives, 383–27, and the Senate, 95–0. It was signed into law by President Reagan on October 1, 1986. Admiral William J. Crowe was the first Chairman to serve under this new legislation.\n\nThe Goldwater–Nichols Act was an attempt to fix problems caused by inter-service rivalry, which had emerged during the Vietnam War, contributed to the catastrophic failure of the Iranian hostage rescue mission in 1980, and which were still evident in the invasion of Grenada in 1983.\n\nSuch problems existed as well in World War II, during which two independent lines of command flowed from the President, one through the Secretary of the Navy to naval forces, and the other through the Secretary of War to land and air forces. In 1947, the military restructuring placed all military forces, including the newly independent Air Force, under a single civilian Secretary of Defense.\n\nHowever, the United States military was still organized along lines of command that reported to their respective service chiefs (Commandant of the Marine Corps, Chiefs of Staff of the Army and Air Force, and Chief of Naval Operations). These service chiefs in turn made up the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The Joint Chiefs of Staff elected a Chairman to communicate with the civilian government. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs in turn reported to the Secretary of Defense, the civilian head of the military. Both the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and the Secretary of Defense reported to the President of the United States, who holds the position of commander-in-chief (CINC) of all U.S. Armed Forces.\n\nThis system led to counter-productive inter-service rivalry. Peacetime activities (such as procurement and creation of doctrine, etc.) were tailored for each service in isolation. Additionally, wartime activities of each service were largely planned, executed, and evaluated independently. These practices resulted in division of effort and an inability to profit from economies of scale, and inhibited the development of modern warfare doctrine.\n\nThe formulation of the AirLand Battle doctrine in the late 1970s and early 1980s laid bare the difficulty of coordinating efforts among various service branches. AirLand Battle attempted to synthesize all of the capabilities of the service arms of the military into a single doctrine. The system envisioned ground, naval, air, and space based systems acting in concert to attack and defeat an opponent in depth. The structure of the armed forces effectively blocked realization of this ideal. The US invasion of Grenada in 1983 further exposed the problems with the military command structure. Although the United States forces easily prevailed, its leaders expressed major concerns over both the inability of the different service branches to coordinate and communicate with each other, and the consequences of a lack of coordination if faced with a more threatening foe.\n\nThe Goldwater–Nichols Act brought sweeping changes to the way the U.S. military forces were organized. The first successful test of Goldwater–Nichols was the 1989 United States Invasion of Panama (code-named Operation Just Cause), where it functioned exactly as planned, allowing the U.S. commander, Army General Maxwell Reid Thurman, to exercise full control over Marine Corps, Army, Air Force and Navy assets without having to negotiate with the individual services.\n\nUnder the Goldwater–Nichols Act, military advice was centralized in the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs as opposed to the service chiefs. The Chairman was designated as the principal military adviser to the President of the United States, National Security Council and Secretary of Defense. The Act also established the position of Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and simplified the chain of command. Additionally, the Act states that the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff cannot be representatives from the same service branch. It increased the ability of the Chairman to direct overall strategy, but provided greater command authority to \"unified\" and \"specified\" field commanders. According to the Act, the Chairman \"may not exercise military command over the Joint Chiefs of Staff or any of the armed forces\".\n\nSection 162(b) of the Act prescribes that \"unless otherwise directed by the President, the chain of command to a unified or specified combatant command runs—\n\n\nGoldwater–Nichols changed the way the services interact. The services themselves \"organize, train and equip\" forces for use by the combatant commanders (CCDRs), and the service chiefs no longer exercise any operational control over their forces. Rather than reporting to a service chief operationally, the service component forces support the commander responsible for a specific function (Special Operations, Strategic, and Transportation) or a geographic region of the globe (Northern, Central, European, Pacific, Southern, and Africa Commands). The combatant commanders then field a force capable of employing AirLand Battle doctrine (or its successors) using all assets available to the integrated unified action plan, including the military, interagency organizations of the US Government such as USAID and the Department of State, and intelligence agencies. The restructuring afforded a combination of effort, integrated planning, shared procurement, and a reduction or elimination of inter-service rivalry. It also provided unity of command, conforming with leading military science. Individual services changed from relatively autonomous war-fighting entities into organizational and training units, responsible for acquisition, modernization, force-development, and readiness as a component of the integrated force. Thus USCENTCOM (U.S. Central Command), for example, would be assigned air, ground, naval, Marine, and special operations assets to achieve its objectives, not the previously less efficient method of individual services planning, supporting, and fighting the same war. This was successfully demonstrated during Operation Desert Storm in 1991.\n\nAnother major effect of the Act is the way it has dramatically changed the personnel management of military officers. Many officers are assigned to Joint Duty positions (occasionally more than once), and are educated in Department of Defense Joint Professional Military Education (JPME) schools as part of their career development and progression. For example, in order to be competitive for promotion to General or Flag Officer (Admiral) (pay grade O-7 or above/NATO OF-6), Active Component colonels (pay grade O-6/NATO OF-5) (Army, Marine Corps, and Air Force) or Navy captains must have completed at least one Joint Duty assignment, as well as having completed (or currently be enrolled in) a JPME school that grants JPME Level II credit.\n\nShared procurement allowed the various branches to share technological advances such as stealth and smart weapons quickly, and provided other ancillary benefits (such as improved interoperability of radios and communications between units and members of different services). Joint implementation of new technology allowed for joint development of supporting doctrine. The Goldwater–Nichols Act could be seen as the initial step of the currently ongoing Revolution in Military Affairs (RMA) with its concept of Network Centric Warfare (NCW).\n\nOn October 24, 2002, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld ordered that the functional and regional commanders be referred to not as \"CINCs\" but as \"combatant commanders\" when applied to \"unified\" regional organizations (e.g., USCENTCOM), or \"commander\" when talking about \"specified\" units such as the U.S. Strategic Command (USSTRATCOM). Rumsfeld said the term \"CINC\" was inappropriate, notwithstanding its employment for many decades, because under the United States Constitution, the President is the Nation's only commander-in-chief. His decision was described as intending to clarify and strengthen the military's subordination to civilian government.\n\nOn November 10, 2015, Senator John McCain announced at a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee, the beginning of a new effort to \"reconsider, and possibly update\" Goldwater–Nichols.\n\nOn January 4, 2016, the Deputy Secretary of Defense issued a memorandum directing an internal review with the objective \"to make recommendations for updates or adjustments to organizational relationships and authorities\" based on 30 years of experience under Goldwater–Nichols.\n\nOn April 5, 2016, Defense Secretary Ash Carter outlined reforms in a speech at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53301230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53301230", "title": "Green Panthers", "text": "Green Panthers\n\nGreen Panthers is a United States cannabis rights advocacy organization founded in Washington, D.C., in 1990 by Terry Mitchell and Loey Glover. Green Panthers headquarters moved in 1993 to Cincinnati, Ohio. The Green Panthers flag is a white field with a green cannabis leaf. The Green Panthers published a newspaper \"Revolutionary Times\" (originally \"Revolutionary Toker\") in the 1990s.\n\nGreen Panthers organized \"Inhale to the Chief\", a pro-marijuana rally for the inauguration of Bill Clinton, in front of the White House in Washington, D.C., in January 1993.\n\nGreen Panthers coordinated national publicity and public relations for the San Marcos Seven Hemp City demonstration in June and July, 1993.\n"}
{"id": "44587896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44587896", "title": "Hacker Bible", "text": "Hacker Bible\n\nThe Hacker Bible is a publication of the German hacker organization Chaos Computer Club (CCC). It has been published in two editions to date, 1985 and 1988. Both were edited by Wau Holland and published on the Grüne Kraft press.\n\nThe Hacker Bible is a compendium of documents and stories from the hacker scene, for example the instruction guide to the acoustic coupler named “Data-loo”(Germ.:Datenklo). Furthermore, it offers manuals and other technical explanations. The first edition appeared in 1985 with the subtitle “Cable salad is good for you\" (\"Kabelsalat ist gesund”) and had sold 25,000 copies by mid-1988. The second edition in 1988 was given the additional name “The New Testament”. The comic images on the cover sleeve are a creation of German comic artists Mali Beinhorn and Werner Büsch from the comic workshop Büsch-Beinhorn. The production and distribution of the Hacker Bible was discontinued by 1990. Since 1999, the CCC has offered a scanned and full-text version online (in German) with further materials such as texts from Peter Glaser, a documentation on Karl Koch and works from Tron from the Chaos-CD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6148531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6148531", "title": "International incidents during the 2006 Lebanon War", "text": "International incidents during the 2006 Lebanon War\n\nDuring the 2006 Lebanon War, a number of international incidents occurred in Lebanon, largely involving United Nations personnel in Lebanon, who have come under a number of attacks. On 25 July 2006, four unarmed United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO) peacekeepers were killed during an Israeli air strike on a UN observation post in southern Lebanon. Israel motivated the attack as wrong identification of target as a militant enemy post.\n\nThe United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, or UNIFIL, was created by the United Nations, by Security Council Resolution 425 and 426 on 19 March 1978. UNIFIL objective was to confirm Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon, to restore international peace and security, and to help the Lebanese Government restore effective authority in the area. The first UNIFIL troops to arrive in the area on 23 March 1978 were reassigned from other UN peacekeeping operations in the area (namely UNEF and UNDOF).\n\nDuring the 1982 Lebanon War, U.N. positions were overrun, primarily by the South Lebanon Army forces under Major Saad Haddad. These were the indigenous Lebanese forces supported by the IDF. During the occupation, UNIFIL's function was mainly to provide humanitarian aid. In 1999, Israel undertook a full withdrawal, which concluded in 2000 and enabled UNIFIL to resume its military tasks. The UN Security Council has extended UNIFIL's mandate until August 31, 2006.\n\nUNIFIL's function was mainly the provision of food and aid to locals in Southern Lebanon. In 1999, Israel undertook a full withdrawal, which concluded in 2000 and enabled UNIFIL to resume its military tasks. At Lebanon' request, in January 2006 the UN extended UNIFIL's mandate to expire 31 July 2006.\n\nOn 25 July 2006 four unarmed United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO) peacekeepers from Austria, China, Finland and Canada were killed in an Israeli air strike at a UN observation post in southern Lebanon. According to the UN, the four had taken shelter in a bunker under the post, which was a three story building inside a patrol base in Khiyam. The area had been struck by artillery and aerial bombardment over a period of 6 hours. According to the IDF, Hezbollah artillery had been firing at Israeli positions from the area. According to a UN official who had seen the preliminary report, the post called an Israeli liaison officer ten times to call off the bombardment and an Israeli official promised to halt the bombing each time.\n\nA UNIFIL rescue team of Indian soldiers was immediately dispatched to the scene. They recovered the bodies of three observers from the rubble while there was still active hostilities. Danny Ayalon, Israel's ambassador to the United States, said that \"UNIFIL obviously got caught in the middle\" of a gunfight between Hezbollah guerillas and Israeli troops.\"We do not have yet confirmation what caused these deaths. It could be (Israel Defense Forces). It could be Hezbollah,\" he said.\n\nBy 8 August 2006, the bodies of observers were retrieved and identified. The four victims of the attack, from UNTSO Team Sierra, were:\n\nSecretary-General Kofi Annan initially stated that he was \"…shocked and deeply distressed by the apparently deliberate targeting by Israeli Defence Forces.\" \"This coordinated artillery and aerial attack on a long-established and clearly marked U.N. post at Khiyam occurred despite personal assurances given to me by Prime Minister Ehud Olmert that U.N. positions would be spared Israeli fire,\" he said in a statement. \"Furthermore, General Alain Pellegrini, the U.N. force commander in south Lebanon, had been in repeated contact with Israeli officers throughout the day, stressing the need to protect that particular U.N. position from attack.\"\n\nAyalon, Israeli ambassador to the United States called Annan's statement \"outrageous,\" while Israel's U.N. ambassador, Dan Gillerman, said he, too, was \"deeply distressed\" that Annan alleged that the strike was deliberate. \"I am surprised at these premature and erroneous assertions made by the secretary-general, who while demanding an investigation, has already issued its conclusions,\" Gillerman said in a statement. However, as at the time Annan had only circumstantial evidence for the bombing being deliberate, many pundits described Annan’s statement as indicative of the UN's anti-Israel bias.\n\nAn Israeli senior commander stated that Hezbollah forces fired rockets from as little as 30-40m from UNIFIL bases, seeking to avoid Israeli counter-fire, and had sought refuge in UNIFIL bases on occasion. UNIFIL maintained that Hezbollah fighters were not allowed into any of its bases. However, they reported more than 20 instances of rockets being fired from less than 500m from their positions, as well as a number of cases of small arms and mortar fire from within 100m. Additionally, UNIFIL reported several instances of their positions and vehicles being hit by Hezbollah mortars, small arms fire, or rockets.\n\nOn 26 July 2006, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert phoned Kofi Annan and expressed his deep regret over the death of the four UN observers. He promised that Israel would thoroughly investigate the incident and would share the findings with Annan, but said that he was taken aback by secretary general’s statement saying that the Israeli attack on the UN post was “apparently deliberate”. The Israeli ambassador to the UN, Dan Gillerman, ruled out major U.N. involvement in any potential international force in Lebanon, saying that more professional and better-trained troops were needed for such a volatile situation.\n\nAt a press conference the next day, Annan seemed to soften his stance and clarified that \"[t]he statement said 'apparently deliberate targeting,'\" stressing that the word \"apparent is important in this.\" He added that he spoke to Olmert and accepted his \"deep sorrow\" for the incident, which he said Olmert \"definitely believes\" was a mistake that would be investigated.\n\nCanada’s Prime Minister, Stephen Harper, said he does not believe Israel targeted the post, and pointed to the fact that Israel has been “co-operating with us in our evacuation efforts, in our efforts to move Canadian citizens out of Lebanon, and also trying to keep our own troops that are on the ground involved in the evacuation out of harm's way.” He also has exclaimed his concern with the UN in that the post “remained manned during what is now, more or less, a war.”\n\nHowever, Ireland’s Foreign Minister Dermot Ahern and its Defence Minister Willie O'Dea were angered because Irish peace keeping troops had been on duty in the observation post 24 hours before the strike. They also said that a senior Irish soldier working for the UN forces was in contact with the Israeli Defence Force's UNIFIL liaison office six times to warn them that their bombardment was endangering the lives of UN staff. Both Ministers called in the Israeli Ambassador to Ireland to express their anger and dissatisfaction.\n\nIreland has filed an official protest with Israel. China has also strongly condemned the action and demanded that Israel apologize for the attack. Austria's foreign minister, Ursula Plassnik, told her Israeli counterpart by telephone that the bombing was unacceptable and urged Israel to stop its attack on the area.\n\nIn an interview with Reuters, Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Mark Regev said that “Israel sincerely regrets the tragic death of the UN personnel in south Lebanon. We do not target UN personnel and, since the beginning of this conflict, we have made a consistent effort to ensure the safety of all members of (the UN peacekeeping force). This tragic event will be thoroughly investigated.”\n\nOn 27 July, the United Nations Security Council issued a statement calling on the Israeli government to conduct a comprehensive inquiry into the incident and stressed that “Israel and all concerned parties” must comply with their obligations under international humanitarian law on the protection of UN personnel.\n\nIsrael has launched an investigation into the bombing and has concluded that the incident was an error. The report says flawed military maps meant the post was wrongly targeted.\nIsrael's foreign ministry spokesman, Mark Regev, told that the report concludes the attack was an error. Israeli aircraft attacked the post in the belief it was a Hezbollah position.\n\nIn 2008, the Canadian Forces released a report on the inquiry of the attack. The report blamed the Israeli Defence Forces for the incident. It also stated that both the Israeli military and the UN refused to provide requested documents for the investigation.\n\nIn an email dated 18 July received by CTV and published 24 July, the deceased Canadian peacekeeper Major Paeta Hess-von Kruedener, stated: “What I can tell you is this: we have on a daily basis had numerous occasions where our position has come under direct or indirect fire from both artillery and aerial bombing. The closest artillery has landed within 2 meters of our position and the closest 1000 lb aerial bomb has landed 100 meters from our patrol base. This has not been deliberate targeting, but has rather been due to tactical necessity.”\n\nAccording to retired Canadian Major General Lewis MacKenzie, interviewed on CBC radio on 26 July, Hess-von Kruedener's phrase ‘due to tactical necessity’ was “veiled speech in the military. What he was telling us was Hezbollah fighters were all over his position and the IDF were targeting them.”\nHowever, Major Paeta Hess-von Kruedener's widow Cynthia stated on 29 July that she blamed the IDF for her husband’s death. She said “Why did they bomb the UN site? In my opinion, those are precision-guided missiles [so] then that it is intentional.…And that wasn’t the only day they were firing on that base. My information from him [her husband] is that week upon week they had been firing on there, bombing near it.” It has not yet been determined if the munitions were guided or not.\n\nThe UNIFIL press releases mention dozen of attacks and near misses on its presence during the present conflict.\n\n\n\nMeanwhile, the United Nations Security Council failed to agree on a statement responding to the Israeli attack after the United States refused to accept language condemning: \"any deliberate attack against U.N. personnel.\"'\n\nINTEGRATE taken from Targeting of civilian areas in the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict\n\nThe United Nations Interim Force In Lebanon (UNIFIL) was created by the United Nations, to confirm Israeli withdrawal from Lebanon, restore the international peace and security, and help the Lebanese Government restore its effective authority in the area. During the current (as in past conflicts; see Qana shelling) the peacekeeping force has come under attack from both sides, but mainly from Israeli forces. About 50 members of the unarmed UNTSO are being evacuated to lightly armed UNIFIL positions for security reasons.\n\nThe worst of these came on 25 July 2006, when four unarmed UNTSO peacekeepers from Austria, China, Finland and Canada were killed in an Israeli air strike on a UN observation post in southern Lebanon. According to the UN, the four had taken shelter in a bunker under the post. It had been shelled 14 times by Israeli artillery over a period of 6 hours, during which the post called an Israeli liaison officer ten times to call off the bombardement. Every time he promised to do so. Secretary General Kofi Annan said in a statement from Rome that he was \" ... shocked and deeply distressed by the apparently deliberate targeting by Israeli Defense Forces.\"\nThe site of the observation post was well known, and both sides in the conflict had the coordinates of the compound. However, as at the time Annan had no evidence for the bombing being deliberate, many pundits described Annan’s statement as indicative of the UN's anti-Israel bias. In press releases by UNIFIL on 26 July and 27 July it is noted that Hezbollah had been firing from close to 4 UNIFIL positions in Alma ash Shab, Tibnin Brashit and At Tiri. Ireland's Foreign Ministry said a senior Irish soldier working for the UN forces was in contact with the Israelis six times to warn them that their bombardment was endangering the lives of U.N. staff and on several occasions they were reassured that it will.\n\nAccording to an interview on CBC radio and multiple print sources, Retired Canadian Major General Lewis MacKenzie, referring to an email he had received a few days previously from the now deceased Canadian peacekeeper Major Paeta Hess-von Kruedener, stated that \"...what he was telling us was Hezbollah fighters were all over his position and the IDF were (sic) targeting them and that's a favorite trick by people who don't have representation in the UN. They use the UN as shields knowing that they can't be punished for it.\" \n\nIn the aftermath of the war, aircraft of the Israeli Air Force began fly over Lebanon. In September 2006, Major General Alain Pellegrini of France, commander of UNIFIL, warned that the flyovers violated the cease-fire, and that force might be used to stop the incursions. In October 2006, a number of incidents between the Israeli Air Force and UN peacekeepers took place:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53072519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53072519", "title": "Intersex rights in the United States", "text": "Intersex rights in the United States\n\nIntersex people in the United States have some of the same rights as other people, but with significant gaps, particularly in protection from non-consensual cosmetic medical interventions and violence, and protection from discrimination. Actions by intersex civil society organizations aim to eliminate harmful practices, promote social acceptance, and equality. In recent years, intersex activists have also secured some forms of legal recognition.\n\nEarly accounts of intersex people in North America include those of English immigrant Thomas(ine) Hall, in 17th-century colonial Virginia and 19th-century Connecticut intersex man Levi Suydam, pronounced male and so eligible to vote. Early common law, like canon law, held that hermaphrodites were to be treated as male or female depending on the prevailing sex.\n\nIn September 2017, an intersex and non-binary student, Scout Schultz was shot dead at the Georgia Institute of Technology. In November 2017, Betsy Driver became the first intersex person openly elected to public office in the United States. Driver was elected as a council person in the New Jersey city of Flemington. Driver is the second publicly intersex person elected to office, following Tony Briffa in Australia.\n\nSince the mid-twentieth century, U.S. physicians have considered intersex status in infants a \"psychosocial emergency\" and performed \"normalizing\" or \"reconstructive\" genital surgery without considering non-surgical alternatives (e.g., counseling). When deciding whether to assign the intersex infant \"male\" or \"female,\" the factors typically considered are potential for fertility and sexual penetration. These surgeries still continue in the U.S. today despite being medically unnecessary (that is, chiefly cosmetic) and potentially injurious to the patient's sexual pleasure.\n\nThe U.S. intersex movement developed in the 1990s and 2000s, through the establishment of the Intersex Society of North America (ISNA) and the AIS Support Group USA (now called AISDSD) in the 1990s, and Advocates for Informed Choice (now interACT), Bodies Like Ours, Intersex Initiative, and Organisation Intersex International, (now the Intersex Campaign for Equality) in the following decade.\n\nThe Intersex Society of North America (ISNA) was a non-profit advocacy group founded in 1993 by Cheryl Chase to end shame, secrecy, and unwanted genital surgeries. Amongst other activities, it published the journal \"Hermaphrodites with Attitude\".\n\nIntersex activism between the late 1990s and mid 2000s led from demonstrating outside a national pediatric conference, to speaking inside clinical conferences, and the first human rights investigation into medical \"normalization\", by the Human Rights Commission of the City and County of San Francisco. However, coercive intersex medical interventions persist.\n\nISNA closed in June 2008 after supporting the creation of a new clinical term for intersex conditions, Disorders of Sex Development (DSD), albeit ambivalently as a means of opening \"many more doors\" and engaging with clinicians, and also supporting the establishment of a new organization, the Accord Alliance, set up to promote comprehensive and integrated approaches to healthcare. New organizations such as Intersex Campaign for Equality and interACT were since established with civil and human rights goals.\n\ninterACT has worked with MTV on the program \"Faking It\", notable for providing the first intersex main character in a television show, and television's first intersex character played by an intersex actor. In 2017, interACT worked with model Hanne Gaby Odiele to tackle social taboos.\n\nIn October 1996, the American Academy of Pediatrics issued a press statement stating that:\n\nThe statement was issued in response to the first public demonstration by intersex people and allies, outside the annual conference of the Academy, in Boston on October 26, 1996. Morgan Holmes has written that the demonstration happened after activists Max Beck and Holmes were excluded from the conference. She states that the pair went to deliver an address, \"on long-term outcomes and to challenging their still-prevailing opinion that cosmetic surgery to \"fix\" intersexed genitals was the best course of action\", but were \"met, officially, with hostility and were escorted out of the conference by security guards\". The demonstration, by Beck and Holmes, with allies from Transexual Menace, is now marked as Intersex Awareness Day.\n\nA 2005 human rights investigation into the medical \"normalization\" of Intersex People, by the San Francisco Human Rights Commission is thought \"likely to be the first human rights report into the treatment of intersex people, certainly in the English language.\"\n\nIn 2005, Cheryl Chase, Alice Dreger and others called for the replacement of the word \"hermaphrodite\" with \"Disorders of Sex Development\" (DSD). Later the same year, a clinical \"Intersex Consensus Meeting\" of US and European pediatric endocrine societies adopted \"DSD\" as a replacement for both intersex and hermaphrodite in medical settings.\n\nThe new language of Disorders of Sex Development was always contentious as was seen as pathologizing. Scholars and activists, such as Georgiann Davis, and Morgan Holmes, Esther Morris Leidolf, and clinical psychologists like Tiger Devore regarded this shift as a retrenchment of medical authority over intersex bodies. In May 2016, interACT published a statement opposing pathologizing language to describe people born with intersex traits, recognizing \"increasing general understanding and acceptance of the term \"intersex\"\".\n\nResearch by the Lurie Children's Hospital, Chicago, and the AISDSD Support Group published in 2017 found that 80% of affected Support Group respondents \"strongly liked, liked or felt neutral about intersex\" as a term, while caregivers were less supportive. The hospital found that \"disorders of sex development\" terminology may negatively affect care, give offence, and result in lower attendance at medical clinics. The research results for \"disorders of sex development\" mirrored earlier results from a survey of a congenital adrenal hyperplasia support group, the CARES Foundation.\n\nIn 2013, Pidgeon Pagonis testified for interACT before the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights about the medical interventions they were subjected to as an intersex child, alongside Latin Americans Mauro Cabral, Natasha Jiménez and Paula Machado. In 2014, Anne Tamar-Mattis was published on medical interventions as torture in healthcare settings, in a book by the Center for Human Rights & Humanitarian Law at American University Washington College of Law.\n\nIn 2016, the United Nations Committee Against Torture asked the United States government to comment on reports of intersex medical interventions on infants and children, following submission of a report by interACT.\n\nIn June 2017, Joycelyn Elders, David Satcher, and Richard Carmona, three former Surgeons General of the United States published a paper at the Palm Center, citing a State Department statement and developments in Germany, Switzerland, Australia, Chile, Argentina, and Malta, and calling for a rethink of early genital surgeries on children with intersex traits. The statement reflected on the history of such interventions, their rationales and outcomes, stating:\n\nIn July 2017, Human Rights Watch and interACT published a report on medically unnecessary surgeries on intersex children, \"I Want to Be Like Nature Made Me\", based on interviews with intersex persons, families and physicians. The report states that:\n\nThe report found that intersex medical interventions persist as default advice from doctors to parents, despite some change in some regions of the U.S. and claims of improved surgical techniques, resulting in an uneven situation where care differs and a lack of standards of care, but paradigms for care are still based on socio-cultural factors including expectations of \"normality\" and evidence in support of surgeries remains lacking. \"Nearly every parent\" in the study reported pressure for their children to undergo surgery, and many reported misinformation. The report calls for a ban on \"surgical procedures that seek to alter the gonads, genitals, or internal sex organs of children with atypical sex characteristics too young to participate in the decision, when those procedures both carry a meaningful risk of harm and can be safely deferred.\"\n\nThe report was acknowledged as an important contribution to research by the American Academy of Pediatrics.\n\nIn a 2017 interview for Harper's Magazine, Laurence Baskin, chief of pediatric urology at University of California, San Francisco, told journalist Sarah Topol \"that he would recommend early surgery not just for 5-alpha but for 95 percent of known D.S.D. conditions ... Baskin classifies such operations as corrective surgeries, no different from fixing a cleft palate or clubfoot. \"We basically treat them because they have a congenital anomaly\".\"\n\nIn response to the 2017 Human Rights Watch report, Associated Press reported opposition to a ban by CARES Foundation, arguing that parents should be able to agree to surgeries to \"reduce the size of the clitoris\" without considering \"moral and philosophical agendas\". Kyle Knight of Human Rights Watch responded that there's no evidence of a health risk, and \"There are limits to what parents can do to their kids\". interACT states that they are \"unaware of any jurisdiction in the U.S. that enforces its own FGM laws in cases where the girl undergoing clitoral cutting has an intersex trait\".\n\nIn November 2016, passed a new policy position on patients with differences in sex development, recommending \"delay of any surgical interventions and gender-related medical interventions for DSD that are not deemed medically necessary\".\n\nAssociated Press reported in July 2017 that the American Medical Association Board of Trustees is considering a policy statement \"urging doctors to defer intersex surgery on infants and young children\" \"except when life-threatening circumstances require emergency intervention\".\n\nOn August 28, California became the first U.S. State to condemn nonconsensual surgeries on intersex children, in Resolution SCR-110.\n\nThe case of \"M.C. v. Aaronson\", advanced by interACT with the Southern Poverty Law Center was brought before the courts in 2013. The child in the case was born in December 2004 with ovotestes, initially determined as male, but subsequently assigned female and placed in the care of South Carolina Department of Social Services in February 2005. Physicians responsible for M.C. initially concluded that surgery was not urgent or necessary and M.C. had potential to identify as male or female, but, in April 2006, M.C. was subjected to feminizing medical interventions. He was adopted in December 2006. Aged 8 at the time the case was taken, he now identifies as male. The Southern Poverty Law Center states: \"In M.C.'s condition, there is no way to tell whether the child will ultimately identify as a boy or a girl. Instead, the doctors decided to assign M.C. female and change his body to fit their stereotype of how a girl should look.\" The defendant in the case, Dr Ian Aaronson, had written in 2001 that \"feminizing genitoplasty on an infant who might eventually identify herself as a boy would be catastrophic\".\n\nThe defendants sought to dismiss the case and seek a defense of qualified immunity, but these were denied by the District Court for the District of South Carolina. In January 2015, the Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed this decision and dismissed the complaint, stating that, \"it did not \"mean to diminish the severe harm that M.C. claims to have suffered\" but that a reasonable official in 2006 did not have fair warning from then-existing precedent that performing sex assignment surgery on sixteen-month-old M.C. violated a clearly established constitutional right.\" The Court did not rule on whether or not the surgery violated M.C.'s constitutional rights. State suits were subsequently filed.\n\nIn July 2017, it was reported that the case had been settled out of court by the Medical University of South Carolina for $440,000. The University denied negligence, but agreed to a \"compromise\" settlement to avoid \"costs of litigation.\"\n\nIn May 2016, the United States Department of Health and Human Services issued a statement explaining Section 1557 of the Affordable Care Act stating that the Act prohibits \"discrimination on the basis of intersex traits or atypical sex characteristics\" in publicly-funded healthcare, as part of a prohibition of discrimination \"on the basis of sex\".\n\nIntersex persons are also protected by the Americans with Disabilities Act.\n\nIn 2017, interACT submitted an amicus curiae in the matter of Gavin Grimm (G.G. v. Gloucester County School Board) regarding protections in education for issues of gender identity under Title IX. The submission stated that the Gloucester County School Board held a \"simplistic view of \"physiological\" sex [that] is demonstrably inaccurate as a matter of human biology. Moreover, it demeans many thousands of intersex youth by erasing their bodies and lives and placing them outside the recognition of the law\".\n\nOn Intersex Awareness Day (October 26) 2015, Lambda Legal filed a federal discrimination lawsuit against the United States Department of State for denying non-binary intersex navy veteran, Dana Zzyym, Associate Director of Intersex Campaign for Equality, a passport. On November 22, 2016, the District Court for the District of Colorado ruled in favor of Zzyym, stating that the State Department violated federal law. The ruling stated that the court found \"no evidence that the Department followed a rational decision-making process in deciding to implement its binary-only gender passport policy,\" and ordered the U.S. Passport Agency to reconsider its earlier decision.\n\nOn September 26, 2016, California resident Sara Kelly Keenan became described as the second person in the United States to legally change her gender to non-binary. Keenan, who uses she/her pronouns, identifies as intersex \"both as my medical reality and as my gender identification ... It never occurred to me that this was an option, because I thought the gender change laws were strictly for transgender people. I decided to try and use the same framework to have a third gender.\" In December 2016, Keenan received a birth certificate with an 'Intersex' sex marker from New York City, the first birth certificate issued using this term in the United States. Keenan had applied for a \"non-binary\" birth certificate but the City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene required a biological term.\n\nPress coverage in December 2016 also disclosed that Ohio issued a birth certificate with a sex marker of 'hermaphrodite' in 2012. Ohio issues birth certificates based on \"an historical record of the facts as they existed at the time of birth\" and the individual was able to demonstrate a diagnosis of true hermaphrodite. Birth certificates are also known to have no sex specified.\n\nRobert Sparrow has stated that the genetic elimination of intersex traits might be permissible, despite \"uncomfortable\" implications for \"other nonpathological human variations\" that do not affect physical health. In response, Georgiann Davis argues that such discrimination fails to recognize that many people with intersex traits led full and happy lives, and that the \"intersex community is only \"invisible\" to those who choose to ignore it\", while \"the medical profession, not the intersex trait itself, is a major source of the social and psychological harm that perpetuates intersex stigmatization and the \"hostile social environment\" that individuals with intersex traits encounter\". Jason Behrmann and Vardit Ravitsky state that: \"Parental choice against intersex may ... conceal biases against same-sex attractedness and gender nonconformity.\"\n\nNotable intersex rights organizations include interACT and Intersex Campaign for Equality. Former intersex rights organizations include the Intersex Society of North America.\n\nNotable advocates include Eden Atwood, Max Beck, Cheryl Chase, Cary Gabriel Costello, Georgiann Davis, Tiger Devore, Alice Dreger, Pidgeon Pagonis, Anne Tamar-Mattis, Hida Viloria, Sean Saifa Wall and Kimberly Zieselman.\n\nPersonal testimonies are detailed in the San Francisco Human Rights Commission report, and also in a 2015 issue of Narrative Inquiry in Bioethics, and a Lambda Literary Award winning book, \"Intersex (For Lack of a Better Word),\" by Thea Hillman. Movies include the short, award-winning film \"XXXY\" (2000). In 2017, Hatchette Book Group published a memoir, \"Born Both\", by Hida Viloria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3587702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3587702", "title": "Island Commander", "text": "Island Commander\n\nAn Island Commander is an official who is put in charge of an island, or an insular entity called after an island or an archipelago called Islands.\n\nThe United States have used the title for several of their overseas insular possessions, considered too small to have a higher official such as a (Lieutenant) Governor :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23553746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23553746", "title": "Jam Saqi case", "text": "Jam Saqi case\n\nThe Jam Saqi trial (or Jam Saqi case), was a political and judicial program in the history of Pakistan marked by a rise of widespread fear of expansion of communism and the socialism. There were series of federal investigations led by the FIA and federal prosecution trials conducted by the specialized military courts in which the leaders of the communist and socialist parties were accused of plotting to overthrow the military government in order to install a socialist system.\n\nDuring this period, thousands of Pakistani political workers and dissidents were accused of being communists, and hatching a plot against the martial law which was in effect since 1977. The first trial implicated in 1980 and all trials were conducted at the special sessions held at the Karachi Central Jail. Primarily, the leaders of the communist party were convicted whilst socialists were acquitted from the trial in the mid 1980s.\n\nThe historical judicial period that has come to be known as \"Jam Saqi case\" began well before the trial was launched in the 1980s. Many factors contributed to this inquiry, some of them extending back to the year 1950 with the first case, further amplified by Communism's emergence as a recognized political force. After the general elections held in 1977, the military imposed martial law throughout the land to ease the social unrest in the country. The Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Communist Party of Pakistan (CPP), and other leftist political parties condemned the act. Unofficially, the PPP government destroyed the ban on the CPP; as a result, the presence of communist literature in Pakistan became stronger.\n\nOn the other hand, the right-wing groups further consolidated in opposition to the socialist influence in the country. The extremism on both sides grew as did support for a statutory prohibition of such activities in the 1980s. The USSR's invasion of Afghanistan gave President Zia-ul-Haq an opportunity to legitimatize his regime in the country with the Western support.\n\nIn 1978, the FIA arrested communist leader, Jam Saqi, and raided two houses in Karachi. Saqi was booked for a trial set up by the military government in 1980 . In addition, the FIA director Azam Qazi ordered his agents to begin gathering information on the leftist groups uniting under a common platform; all were acquitted in the trial by the federal prosecutors. This marked the second case against the Communist Party of Pakistan; the first was the Rawalpindi Conspiracy case instituted in the 1950s.\n\nUnder this program, a few of the more notable people who were blacklisted or suffered some other persecution are listed here:\n\n\nPrimarily, the investigations and inquiry focused on the Communist Party's Secretary-General, Jam Saqi. Although, the inquiries were expanded to the left-wing parties of the country, whereas Benazir Bhutto repeatedly appeared in the military courts sessions led by Colonel Atiq Hussain. She was inquired from 27 March until 29 March 1983, after being cleared by Colonel Atiq. At one point, Benazir Bhutto, in the defense of Saqi, declared that \"she did not accept the military courts.\" She further testified that \"Jam Saqi is a patriotic citizen of the state\" and demanded his release. Other accuses were Karachi University's professor Jamal Naqvi, Amar Lal, journalists Sohail Sangi, Badar Abro, Kamal Warsi and Shabbir Shar. Jam Saqi was arrested on 10 December 1978 but was implicated in this case which was lodged about two years later. Naqvi, Abbasi, Warsi and Shar were arrested on 30 July 1980, while Sangi was arrested on 31 July 1980.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3497397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3497397", "title": "List of conservative parties by country", "text": "List of conservative parties by country\n\nMany countries have political parties that are deemed to represent conservative, center-right, right wing, or Tory views, and which may be referred to informally as conservative parties even if not explicitly named so. Those parties are listed below, many of which are members of the International Democrat Union.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55225571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55225571", "title": "List of things named for Henry Clay", "text": "List of things named for Henry Clay\n\nThe following is a list of things named for Henry Clay, as well as monuments and memorials in his honor.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17848671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17848671", "title": "Living Liberally", "text": "Living Liberally\n\nLiving Liberally is the general name for a multifaceted, grassroots progressive community-building movement started in New York City in 2003. The inception of Drinking Liberally and its parent organization, until 2008 known as Cosmopolity, united a growing progressive social network under one name. According to the website, Living Liberally's goal is \"providing easy entrance into progressive involvement, using social interaction to promote political action and facilitating collaboration among progressive organizations.\" Current Living Liberally projects include Drinking Liberally, Laughing Liberally, Screening Liberally, Reading Liberally, and Eating Liberally. The majority of Living Liberally projects are organized by volunteers rather than the national organizers. Living Liberally was founded by David Alpert, Katrina Baker, Matthew O'Neill, and Justin Krebs.\n\nIn April, 2007, the 200th chapter of Drinking Liberally was created in Pagosa Springs, Colorado.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6265304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6265304", "title": "Move (company)", "text": "Move (company)\n\nMove, Inc. is a real estate listing company based in Santa Clara, California. The company operates the Move Network of real estate websites, the largest of which is Realtor.com. Move has a longstanding partnership with the National Association of Realtors, the real estate industry's largest trade association, for operating Realtor.com.\n\nMove was established in Delaware under the name InfoTouch Corporation in 1993. The company is based in Santa Clara, California, and operates Move.com and Realtor.com. Move's portfolio of software businesses includes FiveStreet, ListHub, Market Snapshot, Reesio, and Top Producer. The company also operates Doorsteps.com (following its acquisition in 2013), MortgageMatch.com, Moving.com, Relocation.com, and SeniorHousingnet.com, among other online properties.\n\nRyan O'Hara serves as the chief executive officer (CEO) of Move and Realtor.com. Since August 2015, Nate Johnson has been Move's chief marketing officer, and Bryan Charap has served as chief financial officer. Suhail Ansari was named chief technology officer in November 2015. Chung Meng Cheong became chief product officer in April 2017.\n\nStuart Wolff founded the online real estate company Homestore Inc. in 1996. He established a partnership with the National Association of Realtors, and his company, RealSelect Inc., operated Realtor.com. Under the agreement, the National Association of Realtors had a small stake in RealSelect.\n\nThe company went public as Homestore.com, Inc. in 1999, and was traded on the NASDAQ stock exchange. In October 2000, Homestore agreed to purchase Move.com from Cendant Corp. for $761 million in stock, leaving Cendant with a 15 percent stake. In 2001, Homestore operated the websites HomeBuilder.com, HomeFair.com, Realtor.com, and SpringStreet.com, acquired HomeBid, and owned the software Top Producer as well as Wyldfyre technologies. In August, the company purchased iPlace Inc., for $150 million.\n\nDuring the rise of the dot-com bubble, Wolff was convicted of insider trading and falsifying revenue results, and several additional executives received prison sentences for inflating earnings. Homestore's 2000 and 2001 financial reports required refiling, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigated the company in 2002. Wolff's conviction was overturned on appeal in 2008, but he eventually plea bargained for a sentence of 3–5 years. Wolff resigned as CEO in January 2002, and was replaced by a new management team.\n\nHomestore.com, Inc. changed its name to Homestore, Inc. in 2002, then rebranded as Move, Inc. in 2006. The company's stock symbol was changed from \"HOMS\" to \"MOVE\", and the Move.com website was launched in May 2006.\n\nMove acquired the company Threewide, which operated the real estate listing service ListHub, for $13 million in September 2010. Move retained ListHub as its own separate brand. Move launched an online mortgage offering called MortgageMatch.com in December 2010, targeting first time home buyers and those looking to refinance, then acquired the social search platform SocialBios in 2011. In 2013, Move reported $227 million in revenue and $600,000 in profit. Move ended its three-year partnership with AOL real estate in December 2013, and its decade-long partnership with MSN Real Estate in July 2014.\n\nIn September 2014, News Corporation agreed to purchase Move for $950 million, marking the former company's largest acquisition to date. Move operated the third most-trafficked website network for U.S. listings at the time. Ownership of Move is shared 80/20 between News Corp and REA Group, respectively. The deal was endorsed by the National Association of Realtors, which licensed Move to operate the Realtor.com site. This agreement continued after the deal closed in November. In 2015, Move relocated its headquarters from San Jose to Santa Clara.\n\nMove acquired the document and transaction management provider Reesio, which specializes in residential real estate, in October 2015. The financial terms were not disclosed, and Reesio's four founders joined Move's team. In 2016, Zillow paid $130 million to Move and the National Association of Realtors to settle a lawsuit over trade secrets, following its employment of two individuals who had held executive roles at Move. Move sold its lead-generation company TigerLeads to Commissions Inc., a customer relationship management system provider, in December.\n\nMove acquired Opcity, the Austin, Texas-based real estate technology company, for $210 million in 2018. The company, which developed a platform that uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to match potential home buyers with agents, will continue to operate as an independent business.\n"}
{"id": "28105310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28105310", "title": "Naim Qassem", "text": "Naim Qassem\n\nNaim Qassem (; born 1953) is a Shia Lebanese cleric and politician, who is the second in command of Hezbollah with the title of deputy secretary-general.\n\nQassem was born into a Shiite family in Kfar Fila in 1953. He studied theology and his teacher was Ayatollah Mohammad Hussein Fadlallah. He also received a bachelor's degree in chemistry from Lebanese University.\n\nQassem is one of the founders of Lebanese Muslim students union that was established in the 1970s. He joined the Amal movement when it was headed by Imam Musa Sadr. Qassem was the head of the Islamic religious education association from 1974 to 1988. He also served as the advisor for al Mustafa schools. Then Qassem participated in foundation activities of Hezbollah and was appointed deputy secretary-general of Hezbollah in 1992.\n\nIn 2009, Mustafa Badr Al Din replaced Imad Mughniyah as the head of Hezbollah's military activities. However, Qassem did not support it, favoring Samir Shehade.\n\nQassem published a book, \"Hezbollah: The Story from Within\", in 2006. On 1 August 2011, Qassem attended a ceremony for the eighth edition of his book, where he made the statement that \"Billions of dollars have been offered to us to rebuild the deprived south Lebanon and in return to surrender our arms and stop the work of the resistance. But we told them we're not in need [of their money] and the resistance will go on regardless of \nthe consequences.\"\n"}
{"id": "52890483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52890483", "title": "Nedirbay Aytakov", "text": "Nedirbay Aytakov\n\nNedirbay Aytakov (1894 – October 28, 1938) was a Turkmenistani revolutionary and Soviet politician. He was born in Transcaspian Oblast. From May 21, 1925 to July 21, 1937, he served on the Central Executive Committee of the Soviet Union as a representative of the Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic. During the Great Purge, he was executed by firing squad. After the death of Joseph Stalin, he was rehabilitated.\n\n"}
{"id": "32040196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32040196", "title": "North Korea Intellectuals Solidarity", "text": "North Korea Intellectuals Solidarity\n\nNorth Korea Intellectuals Solidarity is a group of North Korean dissidents resident in South Korea.\n\nIt was founded by Kim Heung Kwang in October 2008.\n\nNKIS’s mission is to promote freedom, democratization, reform, and human rights for North Korea. Its activities include:\n\n\nThe organization has also been known to smuggle in USB drives containing political information about South Korean governmental activities along with DVDs and other South Korean media content.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14428725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14428725", "title": "One Australia", "text": "One Australia\n\nOne Australia was the immigration and ethnic affairs policy of the Liberal-National Opposition in Australia, released in 1988. The One Australia policy proclaimed a vision of \"one nation and one future\". It called for an end to multiculturalism and opposed a treaty with Aboriginal Australians.\n\nThe policy set the scene for the August 1988 suggestion by Leader of the Opposition John Howard that the rate of Asian immigration to Australia be reduced.\n\nHoward first flagged the concept of the \"One Australia\" policy on a trip to Perth in July 1988, having recently returned from a visit with Margaret Thatcher in Britain. \"One Australia\" was to be the name of the Liberal-National Coalition's immigration and ethnic affairs policy.\n\nDuring an interview on the John Laws radio programme on 1 August 1988, Howard detailed the policy, expressing his preference to bias immigration towards skilled applicants rather than family reunion. Later that afternoon, on the ABC PM programme, Howard discussed the policy in relation to Asian immigration to Australia:\nI do believe that if it is – in the eyes of some in the community – that it's too great, it would be in our immediate-term interest and supporting of social cohesion if it were slowed down a little, so the capacity of the community to absorb it was greater.\n\nHoward's Shadow Finance Minister, John Stone, elaborated, saying that \"Asian immigration has to be slowed. It's no use dancing around the bushes\". Ian Sinclair, National Party leader in the Coalition, also supported the policy, saying: \"What we are saying is that if there is any risk of an undue build-up of Asians as against others in the community, then you need to control it ... I certainly believe, that at the moment we need ... to reduce the number of Asians ... We don't want the divisions of South Africa, we don't want the divisions of London. We really don't want the colour divisions of the United States.\"\n\nThere were widespread objections to the policy from within the Liberal Party, including from Victorian Premier Jeff Kennett, New South Wales Premier Nick Greiner, former Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser, and former immigration ministers Ian Macphee and Michael MacKellar.\n\nThe Labor government sought to quickly exploit Howard's Asian remarks by introducing a parliamentary motion rejecting the use of race to select immigrants. Howard opposed this motion. In an unusual show of dissent, three Liberal MPs—Ian Macphee, Steele Hall and Philip Ruddock—defied their leader by crossing the floor and voting with the Labor government. Macphee lost preselection the following year.\n\nCriticising his own party's policy, Steele Hall said in a speech to Parliament:\nThe question has quickly descended from a discussion about the future migrant intake to one about the level of internal racial tolerance. The simple fact is that public opinion is easily led on racial issues. It is now time to unite the community on the race issue before it flares into an ugly reproach for us all.\n\nIn a speech to the \"Terra Australis to Australia\" conference in Canberra, August 1988, Prime Minister Bob Hawke responded to the Opposition's One Australia policy:\nIn the field of immigration and ethnic affairs, the \"One Australia\" ideology seems to connote a return to the dark days of narrow minded intolerance, fear of difference and pressure to assimilate. It is less about uniting Australians than dividing them.\n\n\"One Australia\" was officially launched by John Howard on 22 August 1988. The policy document, whose title was personally chosen by Howard, stated the Coalition's ideal to create \"One Australia and welcome all those who share our vision and are ready to contribute to it\", detailing a vision of \"one nation and one future\" which included the rejection of Aboriginal land rights. In September 1988, John Howard criticised multiculturalism, saying \"To me, multiculturalism suggests that we can't make up our minds who we are or what we believe in\", and the idea of an Aboriginal treaty, saying \"I abhor the notion of an Aboriginal treaty because it is repugnant to the ideals of One Australia\".\n\n\"One Australia\" became the centrepiece of Howard's general policy manifesto, \"Future Directions – It's Time for Plain Thinking\", which was released in December 1988.\n\nIn a January 1989 interview with Gerard Henderson, Howard elaborated on his reasons for opposing multiculturalism:\nThe objection I have to multiculturalism is that multiculturalism is in effect saying that it is impossible to have an Australian ethos, that it is impossible to have a common Australian culture. So we have to pretend that we are a federation of cultures and that we've got a bit from every part of the world. I think that is hopeless.\n\nIn the months following the release of the One Australia policy, there was a decline in investment in Australia by Asian businesses. Some political commentators later postulated that the dissent within the Liberal Party over immigration policy weakened Howard's leadership position, contributing to him being overthrown as Liberal Party leader by Andrew Peacock.\n\nWhen Howard was in Government from 1996-2007 he increased immigration and increased multiculturalism. from migration rate of 30,042 in 1992–93 to 158,630 in 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24324", "title": "Palestine Liberation Organization", "text": "Palestine Liberation Organization\n\nThe Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO; , ) is an organization founded in 1964 with the purpose of the \"liberation of Palestine\" through armed struggle, with much of its violence aimed at Israeli civilians. It is recognized as the \"sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people\" by over 100 states with which it holds diplomatic relations, and has enjoyed observer status at the United Nations since 1974. The PLO was considered by the United States and Israel to be a terrorist organization until the Madrid Conference in 1991. In 1993, the PLO recognized Israel's right to exist in peace, accepted UN Security Council resolutions 242 and 338, and rejected \"violence and terrorism\". In response, Israel officially recognized the PLO as the representative of the Palestinian people. However, the PLO has employed violence in the years since 1993, particularly during the 2000–2005 Second Intifada. On 29 October 2018, the Palestinian Central Council suspended the recognition of Israel and halted security and economic coordination in all its forms with it.\n\nAt its first summit meeting in Cairo in 1964, the Arab League initiated the creation of an organization representing the Palestinian people. The Palestinian National Council convened in Jerusalem on 28 May 1964. Concluding this meeting the PLO was founded on 2 June 1964. Its stated goal was the \"liberation of Palestine\" through armed struggle.\n\nThe ideology of the PLO was formulated in the founding year 1964 in the Palestinian National Covenant. The document is a combative anti-Zionist statement dedicated to the \"restoration of the Palestinian homeland\". It has no reference to religion. In 1968, the Charter was replaced by a comprehensively revised version.\n\nUntil 1993, the only promoted option was armed struggle. From the signing of the Oslo Accords, negotiation and diplomacy became the only official policy. In April 1996, a large number of articles, which were inconsistent with the Oslo Accords, were wholly or partially nullified.\n\nAt the core of the PLO's ideology is the belief that Zionists had unjustly expelled the Palestinians from Palestine and established a Jewish state in place under the pretext of having historic and Jewish ties with Palestine. The PLO demanded that Palestinian refugees be allowed to return to their homes. This is expressed in the National Covenant:\n\nArticle 2 of the Charter states that ″Palestine, with the boundaries it had during the British mandate, is an indivisible territorial unit″, meaning that there is no place for a Jewish state. This article was adapted in 1996 to meet the Oslo Accords.\n\nArticle 20 states: ″The Balfour Declaration, the Mandate for Palestine, and everything that has been based upon them, are deemed null and void. Claims of historical or religious ties of Jews with Palestine are incompatible with the facts of history and the true conception of what constitutes statehood. Judaism, being a religion, is not an independent nationality. Nor do Jews constitute a single nation with an identity of its own; they are citizens of the states to which they belong″. This article was nullified in 1996.\n\nArticle 3 reads: ″The Palestinian Arab people possess the legal right to their homeland and have the right to determine their destiny after achieving the liberation of their country in accordance with their wishes and entirely of their own accord and will″.\n\nThe PLO has always labelled the Palestinian people as Arabs. This was a natural consequence of the fact that the PLO was an offshoot of the Arab League. It also has a tactical element, as to keep the backing of Arab states. Over the years, the Arab identity remained the stated nature of the Palestinian State. It is a reference to the ″Arab State″ envisioned in the UN Partition Plan.\n\nThe PLO and its dominating faction Fatah are often contrasted to more religious orientated factions like Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad (PIJ). All, however, represent a predominant Muslim population. Practically the whole population of the Territories is Muslim, most of them Sunni. Only some 50,000 (ca 1%) of the 4.6 million Palestinians in the occupied Palestinian territories (OPT) are Palestinian Christian.\n\nThe National Charter has no reference to religion. Under President Arafat, the Fatah-dominated Palestinian Authority adopted the 2003 Amended Basic Law, which stipulates Islam as the sole official religion in Palestine and the principles of Islamic sharia as a principal source of legislation. The draft Constitution, which never materialized, contains the same provisions. At the time, the Palestine Legislative Council (PLC), the unicameral legislature of the Palestinian Authority, elected by the Palestinian residents of the Palestinian territories of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, did not include a single Hamas member. The draft Constitution was formulated by the ″Constitutional Committee″, appointed with the approval of the PLO.\n\nThe PLO incorporates a range of generally secular ideologies of different Palestinian movements \"committed to the struggle for Palestinian independence and liberation,\" hence the name of the organization. It formally is an umbrella organization that includes \"numerous organizations of the resistance movement, political parties, and popular organizations.\" From the beginning, the PLO was designed as a government in exile, with a parliament, the Palestine National Council (PNC), chosen by the Palestinian people, as the highest authority in the PLO, and an executive government (EC), elected by the PNC. In practice, however, the organization was rather a hierarchic one with a military-like character, needed for its function as liberation organization, the \"liberation of Palestine\".\n\nBeside a Palestinian National Charter, which describes the ideology of the PLO, a constitution, named \"Fundamental Law\", was adopted, which dictates the inner structure of the organization and the representation of the Palestinian people. A draft Constitution was written in 1963, to rule the PLO until free general elections among all the Palestinians in all the countries in which they resided could be held. The Constitution was revised in 1968.\n\nThe Palestinian National Council has 740 members and the Executive Committee or ExCo has 18 members. The Palestinian Central Council or CC or PCC, established by the PNC in 1973, is the second leading body of the PLO. The CC consists of 124 members from the PLO Executive Committee, PNC, PLC and other Palestinian organizations. The EC includes 15 representatives of the PLC. The CC functions as an intermediary body between the PNC and the EC. The CC makes policy decisions when PNC is not in session, acting as a link between the PNC and the PLO-EC. The CC is elected by the PNC and chaired by the PNC speaker.\n\nThe PNC serves as the parliament for all Palestinians inside and outside of the Occupied Palestinian Territory, including Jerusalem. The PLO is governed internally by its \"Fundamental Law\", which describes the powers and the relations between the organs of the PLO.\n\nAhmad Shukeiri was the first Chairman of the PLO Executive Committee from 1964 to 1967. In 1967, he was replaced by Yahia Hammuda. Yasser Arafat occupied the function from 1969 until his death in 2004. He was succeeded by Mahmoud Abbas (also known as Abu Mazen).\n\nAccording to an internal PLO document, the current PNC remains in function if elections are not possible. In absence of elections, most of the members of the PNC are appointed by the Executive Committee. The document further states that \"the PNC represents all sectors of the Palestinian community worldwide, including numerous organizations of the resistance movement, political parties, popular organizations and independent personalities and figures from all sectors of life, including intellectuals, religious leaders and businessmen\".\n\nAs of 2015, there have not been elections for many years, neither for the PNC, nor for the EC, the PCC or the President of the State of Palestine. The Executive Committee has formally 18 members, including its Chairman, but in past years many vacant seats in the Executive remained empty. Moreover, Hamas, the largest representative of the inhabitants of the Palestinian Territories alongside Fatah, is not represented in the PLO at all. The results of the last parliamentary elections for the PLC, held in the Territories in 2006, with Hamas as the big winner while not even a member of the PLO, \"underlined the clear lack of a popular mandate by the PLO leadership\", according to PASSIA. Individual elected members of the PLC representing Hamas, however, are automatically members of the PNC.\n\nThe representative status of the PLO has often been challenged in the past. It was for example doubted in 2011 by a group of Palestinian lawyers, jurists and legal scholars, due to lack of elections. They questioned the PLO's legitimacy to alter the status and role of the Organisation in respect of their status within the UN. They demanded immediate and direct elections to the Palestine National Council to ″activate representative PLO institutions in order to preserve, consolidate, and strengthen the effective legal representation of the Palestinian people as a whole″, before changing the status within the UN.\n\nThe 1993–1995 Oslo Accords deliberately detached the Palestinian population in the Occupied Palestinian Territories from the PLO and the Palestinians in exile by creating a Palestinian Authority (PA) for the Territories. A separate parliament and government were established. Mahmoud Abbas was one of the architects of the Oslo Accords.\n\nAlthough many in the PLO opposed the Oslo Agreements, the Executive Committee and the Central Council approved the Accords. It marked the beginning of the PLO's decline, as the PA came to replace the PLO as the prime Palestinian political institution. Political factions within the PLO that had opposed the Oslo process were marginalized. Only during the Hamas-led PA Government in 2006-2007, the PLO resurfaced. After Hamas had taken over Gaza in 2007, Abbas issued a decree suspending the PLC and some sections of the Palestinian Basic Law, and appointing Salam Fayyad as Prime Minister.\n\nThe PLO managed to overcome the separation by uniting the power in PLO and PA in one individual, Yasser Arafat. In 2002, Arafat held the functions Chairman of the PLO/Executive Committee and Chairman of Fatah, the dominating faction within the PLO, as well as President of the Palestinian National Authority. He also controlled the Palestinian National Security Forces.\n\nOn 4 February 1969, Fatah founder Arafat was elected Chairman of the PLO in Cairo. Since, Fatah has been the dominant factor within the PLO, which still continues in 2015.\n\nUnder pressure from the international community led by Israel and US, and from inside his own party Fatah, Arafat partially transferred some of his strongly centralized power in 2003, causing strong tensions within the Palestinian leadership. Arafat appointed Mahmoud Abbas as prime minister, but this resulted in disputes about the transfer of tasks and responsibilities. Abbas was strongly supported by the US and the international community, because he was supposed to be more willing to give far-reaching concessions to Israel. While Arafat had retained most of his power and a power struggle within Fatah continued, the leadership was criticised for corruption and nepotism.\n\nAfter Arafat's death, Abbas increasingly gained exclusive powers within both PLO and PA as well as in Fatah, until he had acquired the same power as was previously held by Arafat. Critics say that Abbas even got more powers than Arafat. Abbas is criticized for his autocratic rule and refusal to share powers and plans with other Palestinians. In the absence of a functioning parliament and Executive, he even began to issue his own laws. Senior representative of Abbas' Fatah faction and former Fatah minister of prisoner affairs Sufian Abu Zaida complained that Abbas appointed himself as the chief judge and prosecutor, making a mockery of the Palestinian judicial system. There appeared reports of widespread corruption and nepotism within the Palestinian Authority. Only Hamas-ruled Gaza has a more or less functioning parliament.\n\nWith a \"de facto\" defunct parliament and Executive, Mahmoud Abbas increasingly gained exclusive powers within both PLO and PA, as well as in Fatah. After the announcement in August 2015 of Abbas' resignation as Chairman of the Executive Committee and of nine other members as well, many Palestinians saw the move as just an attempt to replace some members in the Executive Committee, or to force a meeting of the PNC and remain in their jobs until the PNC decides whether to accept or to reject their resignations. Met with fierce criticism by many Palestinian factions, a session of the PNC, who had to approve the resignations, was postponed indefinitely.\n\nThe Palestine Liberation Organization is recognized by the Arab League as \"the \"sole and legitimate\" representative of the Palestinian people\", and by the United Nations as \"the representative of the Palestinian people\".\n\nThe PLO was designated a terrorist organization by the United States in 1987, but in 1988, a presidential waiver was issued, which permitted contact with the organization. Most of the rest of the world recognized the PLO as the legitimate representatives of the Palestinian people from the mid-1970s onwards (after the PLO's admission to the UN as an observer.)\n\nIsrael considered the PLO to be a terrorist organization until the Madrid Conference in 1991. In 1993, PLO chairman Yasser Arafat recognized the State of Israel in an official letter to its prime minister, Yitzhak Rabin. In response to Arafat's letter, Israel decided to revise its stance toward the PLO and to recognize the organization as the representative of the Palestinian people. This led to the signing of the Oslo Accords in 1993.\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly recognized the PLO as the \"representative of the Palestinian people\" in Resolution 3210 and Resolution 3236, and granted the PLO observer status on 22 November 1974 in Resolution 3237. On 12 January 1976 the UN Security Council voted 11–1 with 3 abstentions to allow the Palestinian Liberation Organization to participate in a Security Council debate without voting rights, a privilege usually restricted to UN member states. It was admitted as a full member of the Asia group on 2 April 1986.\n\nAfter the Palestinian Declaration of Independence the PLO's representation was renamed Palestine. On 7 July 1998, this status was extended to allow participation in General Assembly debates, though not in voting.\n\nWhen President Mahmoud Abbas submitted an application for UN state membership, in September 2011, Palestinian lawyers, jurists and legal scholars expressed their concern that the change of Palestine's status in the UN (since 1988 designated as \"Palestine\" in place of \"Palestine Liberation Organization\") could have negative implications on the legal position of the Palestinian people. They warned for the risk of fragmentation, where the State of Palestine would represent the people within the UN and the PLO represent the people outside the UN, the latter including the Palestinians in exile, where refugees constitute more than half of the Palestinian people. They were also afraid of the loss of representation of the refugees in the UN. In Resolution 67/19 November 2012, Palestine was at last awarded non-member observer State status, but the General Assembly maintained the status of the PLO.\n\nBy September 2012, with their application for full membership stalled due to the inability of Security Council members to 'make a unanimous recommendation', the PLO had decided to pursue an upgrade in status from \"observer entity\" to \"non-member observer state\". On 29 November 2012, Resolution 67/19 passed, upgrading Palestine to \"non-member observer State\" status in the United Nations. The new status equates Palestine's with that of the Holy See.\n\nThe \"Palestine Information Office\" was registered with the Justice Department of the United States as a foreign agent until 1968, when it was closed. It was reopened in 1989 as the \"Palestine Affairs Center.\" The PLO Mission office, in Washington D.C was opened in 1994, and represented the PLO in the United States. On 20 July 2010, the United States Department of State agreed to upgrade the status of the PLO Mission in the United States to \"General Delegation of the PLO\". Secretary of State Tillerson in 2017 determined that the PLO Mission broke US law prescribing the PLO Mission from attempting to get the International Criminal Court to prosecute Israelis for offences against Palestinians, under penalty of closure. On 10 September 2018, National security advisor John Bolton announced the closure of the PLO Mission; Nauert, a U.S. Department of State spokeswoman, cited as a reason Palestine's \"push to have the International Criminal Court investigate Israel for possible war crimes.\"\n\nInitially, as a guerrilla organization, the PLO performed actions against Israel in the 1970s and early 1980s, regarded as terroristic activities by Israel and regarded as a war of liberation by the PLO. In 1988, however, the PLO officially endorsed a two-state solution, contingent on terms such as making East Jerusalem capital of the Palestinian state and giving Palestinians the right of return to land occupied by Palestinians prior to 1948, as well as the right to continue armed struggle until the end of \"The Zionist Entity.\" In 1996, the PLO nullified the articles of the PLO's Charter, or parts of it, which called for the destruction of Israel and for armed resistance.\n\nFollowing the failure of the armies of Egypt and Syria to defeat Israel in the October 1973 Yom Kippur War, which broke the status quo existing since the June 1967 Six-Day War, the PLO began formulating a strategic alternative. Now, they intended to establish a \"national authority\" over every territory they would be able to reconquer. From 1 to 9 June 1974, the Palestine National Council held its 12th meeting in Cairo. On 8 June, the Ten Point Program was adopted. The Program stated:\n\nBy \"every part of Palestinian territory that is liberated\" was implicitly meant the West Bank and Gaza Strip, albeit presented as an interim goal. The final goal remained \"completing the liberation of all Palestinian territory\" and \"recover all their national rights and, first and foremost, their rights to return and to self-determination on the whole of the soil of their homeland\". Also UN Resolution 242 was still rejected.\n\nWhile clinging to armed struggle as the prime means, the PLO no longer excluded peaceful means.Therefore, the \"Ten Point Program\" was considered the first attempt by the PLO at peaceful resolution. In October 1974, the Arab League proclaimed the PLO \"the sole legitimate representative of the Palestinian people in any Palestinian territory that is liberated\", and also the UN recognized the PLO. From then, the diplomatic road was prepared. On the other hand, the Program was rejected by more radical factions and eventually caused a split in the movement.\n\nIn 1987, the First Intifada broke out in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The Intifada caught the PLO by surprise, and the leadership abroad could only indirectly influence the events. A new local leadership emerged, the Unified National Leadership of the Uprising (UNLU), comprising many leading Palestinian factions. After King Hussein of Jordan proclaimed the administrative and legal separation of the West Bank from Jordan in 1988, the Palestine National Council adopted the Palestinian Declaration of Independence in Algiers, proclaiming an independent State of Palestine. The declaration made reference to UN resolutions without explicitly mentioning Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338.\n\nA month later, Arafat declared in Geneva that the PLO would support a solution of the conflict based on these Resolutions. Effectively, the PLO recognized Israel's right to exist within pre-1967 borders, with the understanding that the Palestinians would be allowed to set up their own state in the West Bank and Gaza. The United States accepted this clarification by Arafat and began to allow diplomatic contacts with PLO officials. The Proclamation of Independence did not lead to statehood, although over 100 states recognised the State of Palestine.\n\nIn 1993, the PLO secretly negotiated the Oslo Accords with Israel. The accords were signed on 20 August 1993. There was a subsequent public ceremony in Washington D.C. on 13 September 1993 with Yasser Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin. The Accords granted Palestinians the right to self-government on the Gaza Strip and the city of Jericho in the West Bank through the creation of the Palestinian Authority. Yasser Arafat was appointed head of the Palestinian Authority and a timetable for elections was laid out. The headquarters of the PLO were moved to Ramallah on the West Bank.\n\nThe PLO has been sued in the United States by families of those killed or injured in attacks by Palestinians. One of those lawsuits was settled prior to going to trial, while another went to trial. The PLO was found liable and ordered to pay a judgment of $655.5 million US dollars; however, that verdict was overturned on appeal for a lack of US federal jurisdiction over actions committed overseas.\n\nThe PLO began their militancy campaign from its inception with an attack on Israel's National Water Carrier in January 1965. The group used guerrilla tactics to attack Israel from their bases in Jordan (including the West Bank), Lebanon, Egypt (Gaza Strip), and Syria.\n\nThe most notable of what were considered terrorist acts committed by member organizations of the PLO were:\n\nFrom 1967 to September 1970 the PLO, with passive support from Jordan, fought a war of attrition with Israel. During this time, the PLO launched artillery attacks on the moshavim and kibbutzim of Bet Shean Valley Regional Council, while fedayeen launched numerous attacks on Israeli forces. Israel raided the PLO camps in Jordan, including Karameh, withdrawing only under Jordanian military pressure.\n\nThis conflict culminated in Jordan's expulsion of the PLO to Lebanon in July 1971.\n\nThe PLO suffered a major reversal with the Jordanian assault on its armed groups, in the events known as Black September in 1970. The Palestinian groups were expelled from Jordan, and during the 1970s, the PLO was effectively an umbrella group of eight organizations headquartered in Damascus and Beirut, all devoted to armed struggle against Zionism or Israeli occupation, using methods which included direct clashing and guerrilla warfare against Israel. After Black September, the Cairo Agreement led the PLO to establish itself in Lebanon.\n\nIn the late 1960s, and especially after the expulsion of the Palestinian militants from Jordan in Black September events in 1970–1971, Lebanon had become the base for PLO operations. Palestinian militant organizations relocated their headquarters to South Lebanon, and relying on the support in Palestinian refugee camps, waged a campaign of attacks on the Galilee and on Israeli and Jewish targets worldwide. Increasing penetration of Palestinians into Lebanese politics and Israeli retaliations gradually deteriorated the situation.\n\nBy the mid-1970s, Arafat and his Fatah movement found themselves in a tenuous position. Arafat increasingly called for diplomacy, perhaps best symbolized by his Ten Points Program and his support for a UN Security Council resolution proposed in 1976 calling for a two-state settlement on the pre-1967 borders. But the Rejectionist Front denounced the calls for diplomacy, and a diplomatic solution was vetoed by the United States. In 1975, the increasing tensions between Palestinian militants and Christian militias exploded into the Lebanese Civil War, involving all factions. On 20 January 1976, the PLO took part in the Damour massacre in retaliation to the Karantina massacre. The PLO and Lebanese National Movement attacked the Christian town of Damour, killing 684 civilians and forcing the remainder of the towns population to flee. In 1976 Syria joined the war by invading Lebanon, which began the 29‑year Syrian occupation of Lebanon, and in 1978 Israel invaded South Lebanon, in response to the Coastal Road Massacre, executed by Palestinian militants based in Lebanon.\n\nThe population in the West Bank and Gaza Strip saw Arafat as their best hope for a resolution to the conflict. This was especially so in the aftermath of the Camp David Accords of 1978 between Israel and Egypt, which the Palestinians saw as a blow to their aspirations to self-determination. Abu Nidal, a sworn enemy of the PLO since 1974, assassinated the PLO's diplomatic envoy to the European Economic Community, which in the Venice Declaration of 1980 had called for the Palestinian right of self-determination to be recognized by Israel.\n\nOpposition to Arafat was fierce not only among radical Arab groups, but also among many on the Israeli right. This included Menachem Begin, who had stated on more than one occasion that even if the PLO accepted UN Security Council Resolution 242 and recognized Israel's right to exist, he would never negotiate with the organization. This contradicted the official United States position that it would negotiate with the PLO if the PLO accepted Resolution 242 and recognized Israel, which the PLO had thus far been unwilling to do. Other Arab voices had recently called for a diplomatic resolution to the hostilities in accord with the international consensus, including Egyptian leader Anwar Sadat on his visit to Washington, DC in August 1981, and Crown Prince Fahd of Saudi Arabia in his 7 August peace proposal; together with Arafat's diplomatic maneuver, these developments made Israel's argument that it had \"no partner for peace\" seem increasingly problematic. Thus, in the eyes of Israeli hard-liners, \"the Palestinians posed a greater challenge to Israel as a peacemaking organization than as a military one\".\n\nAfter the appointment of Ariel Sharon to the post of Minister of defence in 1981, the Israeli government policy of allowing political growth to occur in the occupied West Bank and Gaza strip changed. The Israeli government tried, unsuccessfully, to dictate terms of political growth by replacing local pro-PLO leaders with an Israeli civil administration.\n\nIn 1982, after an attack on a senior Israeli diplomat by Lebanon-based Palestinian militants in Lebanon, Israel invaded Lebanon in a much larger scale in coordination with the Lebanese Christian militias, reaching Beirut and eventually resulting in ousting of the PLO headquarters in June that year. Low-level Palestinian insurgency in Lebanon continued in parallel with the consolidation of Shia militant organizations, but became a secondary concern to Israeli military and other Lebanese factions. With ousting of the PLO, the Lebanese Civil War gradually turned into a prolonged conflict, shifting from mainly PLO-Christian conflict into involvement of all Lebanese factions – whether Sunni, Shia, Druze, and Christians.\n\nIn 1982, the PLO relocated to Tunis, Tunisia after it was driven out of Lebanon by Israel during the First Lebanon War. Following massive raids by Israeli forces in Beirut, it is estimated that 8,000 PLO fighters evacuated the city and dispersed.\n\nOn 1 October 1985, in Operation Wooden Leg, Israeli Air Force F-15s bombed the PLO's Tunis headquarters, killing more than 60 people.\n\nIt is suggested that the Tunis period (1982–1991) was a negative point in the PLO's history, leading up to the Oslo negotiations and formation of the Palestinian Authority (PA). The PLO in exile was distant from a concentrated number of Palestinians and became far less effective. There was a significant reduction in centres of research, political debates or journalistic endeavours that had encouraged an energised public presence of the PLO in Beirut. More and more Palestinians were abandoned, and many felt that this was the beginning of the end.\n\nThe Second or Al-Aqsa Intifada started concurrently with the breakdown of July 2000 Camp David talks between Palestinian Authority Chairman Yasser Arafat and Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak. The Intifada never ended officially, but violence hit relatively low levels during 2005. The death toll, including both military personnel and civilians, of the entire conflict in 2000–2004 is estimated to be 3,223 Palestinians and 950 Israelis, although this number is criticized for not differentiating between combatants and civilians. Members of the PLO have claimed responsibility for a number of attacks against Israelis during the Second Intifada.\n\nIn February 2015, in a civil case considered by a US federal court the Palestinian Authority and Palestine Liberation Organization were found liable for the death and injuries of US citizens in a number of terrorist attacks in Israel from 2001 to 2004. The damages are to be $655.5 million.\n\nAccording to a 1993 report by the British National Criminal Intelligence Service, the PLO was \"the richest of all terrorist organizations\", with $8–$10 billion in assets and an annual income of $1.5-$2 billion from \"donations, extortion, payoffs, illegal arms dealing, drug trafficking, money laundering, fraud, etc.\"\n\nPresent members include:\n\nFormer member groups of the PLO include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6579291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6579291", "title": "Peace of Tournai", "text": "Peace of Tournai\n\nThe Peace of Tournai (\"Vrede van Doornik\" in Dutch) was an agreement between the Burgundian Duke Philip II and the rebellious city of Ghent signed on 18 December 1385.\n\nThe treaty said that Ghent kept its privileges, that the rebels would be given amnesty and that, because it was the time of the Western Schism, Ghent would be free in recognizing the pope of its choice. However, Ghent was required to give up its treaty with England and recognize the King of France.\n\n"}
{"id": "696004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=696004", "title": "Rodney Hide", "text": "Rodney Hide\n\nRodney Philip Hide (born 16 December 1956) is a former New Zealand politician of the ACT Party. Hide was a Member of Parliament for ACT from 1996 until 2011, was ACT's leader between 2004 and 2011, and represented the from 2005 to 2011. In the Fifth National Government, Hide was Minister of Local Government, Associate Minister of Commerce and Minister of Regulatory Reform until 2011.\n\nHe stepped down as ACT leader in April 2011 after a leadership challenge from Don Brash and retired from Parliament at the general election later that year.\n\nRodney Philip Hide was born in Oxford in Canterbury. His father, Philip Hide, owned a small mixed-farm at Cust and also drove trucks. In 1960, due to sickness, Philip Hide sold the small farm and moved to Rangiora, continuing to drive trucks until his retirement. Rodney Hide attended Rangiora High School, before gaining a degree in zoology and botany from the University of Canterbury. After completing his degree, he travelled overseas, eventually finding himself in Scotland. He worked for some time on oil rigs in the North Sea. Hide eventually returned to New Zealand by way of Romania, Egypt, India, Bangladesh, and Malaysia. In Malaysia he re-met Jiuan Jiuan—with whom he had shared a house in Christchurch—and the two married in 1983. They were to separate in 2007.\n\nAfter returning to New Zealand, Hide gained a degree in resource management from Lincoln College, Canterbury. He then took up a teaching position at Lincoln, first in resource management and later in economics. He completed his master's degree in economics from Montana State University with a thesis on New Zealand's transferable fishing quotas.\n\nIn 1993, Alan Gibbs, an Auckland businessman, offered Hide a job as an economist. He accepted, and also began working at a radio station owned by Gibbs. Later, Hide also met Roger Douglas, a former Minister of Finance whose radical economic reforms had made a considerable impression on him.\n\nWhen Douglas established the Association of Consumers and Taxpayers (which later formed the ACT party), Hide had close involvement as the organisation's first chairman and president.\n\nHide first entered Parliament in 1996 as a list MP. He won the party parliamentary leadership role in a closely contested primary after the retirement of Richard Prebble in 2004. He then went on to win the Epsom electorate from sitting National Party MP Richard Worth in 2005 with the campaign message \"ACT is back\". He retained this seat in the .\n\nHide had a reputation for strong views, for his media profile, and for his confrontational style. In 2002, when Hide still sat on the back benches, one commentator described him the \"leader of the opposition\". Hide's supporters often described him as one of the most effective opposition MPs, and praised him for his motivation and commitment.\n\nHide held the seventh place on the ACT party list for the 1996 elections. ACT received enough votes for Hide to enter Parliament, making him one of the party's \"founding\" MPs. He gradually rose through the party's ranks, reaching second place in the ACT list for the 2002 elections.\n\nIn his maiden speech, Hide made a specific attack on \"perks\" enjoyed by MPs, and this \"perk-busting\" became a characteristic of his political career until he was himself exposed for taking advantage of such perks, in taking his girlfriend on a tax payer funded trip to London and Hawaii. Hide still however claims to have developed a substantial reputation for finding and exposing \"scandals\", whether they relate to MPs' perks or to other governmental matters. Hide's critics often claim that his \"scandals\" rely on sensationalism and exaggeration, and have as their only purpose the gaining of media attention; but his supporters believe that Hide's constant scrutiny \"keeps the government honest\" and ensures that the administration does not waste taxpayers' money.\n\nRoger Douglas himself has emerged as one of Hide's more prominent critics, referring to Hide's \"stunts\" as detracting from ACT's core economic message, shifting focus to populist issues of law and order and to provocative race relations policies. At a party conference, Douglas condemned MPs \"who run any fickle line capable of grabbing short-term votes and attention\", a comment allegedly directed at Hide or at his supporters. Hide acknowledges the criticism, but defends himself on the grounds that a focus on pure economic theory will not attract interest: \"the problem is that the so-called stunts are particularly well-reported and my work explaining free market ideas disappears without trace.\" The tension between Douglas and Hide increased when Hide made a bid for the vice-presidency of ACT in 2000: supporters of Douglas interpreted this action as a challenge to Douglas' organisational authority within the party. Both Douglas and Hide stood down from their roles as President and Vice-President, suggesting an uneasy truce between these two factions. In 2008 the two men worked closely together with Douglas holding third place on the party list following Hide and Heather Roy.\n\nMany people had known for some time that Hide saw himself as a potential parliamentary leader of the ACT party, and he himself showed no reluctance in saying so. At several points, rumours circulated that Hide planned to challenge party leader Richard Prebble for his position, although such a challenge never emerged. When Prebble eventually announced his retirement, his critics claimed that this had been brought about by secret campaigning by Hide. However, Prebble himself has denied this claim and it appears more likely that he stood down for personal reasons, as he publicly claimed.\n\nWhen Prebble announced his retirement, Hide quickly indicated that he would seek the caucus leadership. Prebble, however, appeared unenthusiastic about the prospect of Hide succeeding him, and in a speech praising each of the new leadership contenders, pointedly dwelled on the others. The succession method chosen by Prebble also appeared to disfavour Hide: rather than a simple caucus vote, which a conventional leadership challenge would have called, a four-way election involved all ACT party members (although the election remained only \"indicative\"). Many people consider that the party organisation, in which Douglas has considerable influence, dislikes Hide.\n\nHide campaigned against Stephen Franks, Ken Shirley, and Muriel Newman for the ACT party parliamentary leadership. In the race he claimed that his high public profile and his image of strength would prove crucial to ACT's political survival. Stephen Franks, seen as the primary \"anti-Hide\" candidate and a social conservative, had the backing of Roger Douglas. In the end, however, Hide prevailed, and the party introduced Hide as its new leader on 13 June 2004.\n\nUnder Hide's leadership, the vote in the September 2005 elections severely reduced ACT's party parliamentary representation. ACT's share of the party vote dropped from over 7% of the total in to around 1.5%; its representation in Parliament fell from nine MPs to two. Despite this reduction, the party remained in parliament due to Hide winning the Epsom seat. As a consequence of its reduced share of the vote, ACT received a significant cut in taxpayer-funded Parliamentary resourcing and Hide shifted his electorate office in Remuera to Newmarket, the same location as that of ACT's head office.\n\nAs a post-election strategy, Rodney Hide focused on his high-profile attacks on prominent Labour Party MPs. His campaign against alleged abuse of schoolchildren by Labour Party minister David Benson-Pope, which was verified by the now grown children involved, continued to make headlines in late 2005. In 2006, Hide voiced speculation on the leadership cadre of the National Party (then led by Don Brash), a strategy which gained him headlines but complicated the once co-operative relationship between ACT and National.\n\nIn 2006, Hide appeared as a contestant in the celebrity-based \"Dancing with the Stars\" television series, in which he, paired with a professional dancer, competing against other celebrities. Funds raised through his performance went to St John's Ambulance. Hide stated that he appeared on the show as a personal challenge, having never danced before, and despite harsh criticism from the show's judges placed fourth.\n\nAt the , Hide retained his Epsom seat; with a subsequent rise in party popularity, ACT increased its representation in parliament from two seats to five. The National Party won the most seats and formed a minority government with the support of ACT, the Māori Party and United Future. Hide was appointed as a Minister outside Cabinet and was appointed to the office of the Minister of Local Government, Minister for Regulatory Reform and Associate Minister of Commerce.\n\nOne of the main focuses of Hide's work in cabinet was the Auckland 'Super City' proposal for unification of the various local authorities of Auckland. This initiative was started by the then-Labour government in 2007, which set up a Royal Commission to investigate the local government arrangements in the Auckland region. The Commission reported back in 2009, but Hide and Prime Minister John Key announced that several of the Commission's recommendations would not be accepted. In particular, the proposed six district sub-councils would be replaced by a local structure of 20-30 community boards. The recommendation to have separate concept Maori representation was also not accepted.\n\nHide faced criticism from various parties over the local authority amalgamation. Issues of satellite city boundaries, assets, financing & political consolidation were raised by North Shore City mayor Andrew Williams in 2009. That same year, the Labour Party accused Hide of mismanaging the Auckland reform process and criticised Hide's advocacy of privatising council assets and services. Labour also alleged that a bad process had led to the centralisation of power in the hands of a privileged few. In 2010, a \"New Zealand Herald\" editorial made five further criticisms of Hide's implementation of the 'super city' amalgamation: \nDespite these criticisms, the amalgamation went ahead and the first Auckland Council elections were held in 2010.\n\nIn November 2009, a special ACT-party caucus meeting was held to discuss the Hide's position as party leader, where he was chosen to be retained.\n\nOn 28 April 2011, he resigned as leader of ACT after a successful challenge from former National leader Don Brash. Hide indicated to Brash he would not be standing in the 2011 general election. When he left parliament he chose not to give a valedictory speech.\n\nHide was criticised in November 2009 for taking his girlfriend Louise Crome on a tax-payer funded private holiday to Hawaii and on a tax-payer funded trip to London, Canada and the United States. He repaid the money for the Hawaii trip. These allegations were particularly notable given Hide's history as a self-styled parliamentary perk-buster, particularly in Opposition.\n\nAs ACT leader, Hide criticised Labour's emissions trading scheme in September 2008 and said climate change and global warming were a \"hoax\". He said that the data and the hypothesis did not hold together, and that the legislation would drive up the cost of basic goods, ruining businesses and farmers. Hide stated \"the entire climate change - global warming hypothesis is a hoax, that the data and the hypothesis do not hold together, that Al Gore is a phoney and a fraud on this issue, and that the emissions trading scheme is a worldwide scam and swindle\". In November 2008, after ACT had negotiated with National for a review of the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme, New Zealand Herald journalist Brian Rudman commented that Hide had \"\"fruitcake views on global warming\".\n\nIn 2010, in a speech to Parliament, Hide compared government-funded climate science to the Spanish inquisition. He also accused the National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research of being involved in a scandal with its temperature data and claimed that its scientific credibility was shredded.\n\nIn 2012, Hide continued to write opinion articles in the press questioning climate science and emissions trading schemes. In the National Business Review, Hide claimed that the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report in 2007 was 'infamously wrong' and contained schoolboy errors and had been written by people who had to 'believe the human-induced global warming nonsense before they start'. In the Herald, Hide said that the New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) is a 'scam and a waste'. Hide agreed that CO from fossil fuels is a greenhouse gas that has caused warming, but that the warming wasn't worrying until the effect had been multiplied with computer models that are programmed to cause scary climate change.\nIn December 2011 Hide was granted the right to retain the title of The Honourable in recognition of his term as a Member of the Executive Council of New Zealand. He was also appointed a Companion of the Queen's Service Order in the 2013 New Year Honours, for services as a member of Parliament.\n\nHide wrote a political column for the \"New Zealand Herald\" for a time, and has also worked as a casual labourer.\nFollowing news of Operation Yewtree in Britain and the subsequent trial of Australian entertainer Rolf Harris, a member of the New Zealand Parliament, Maggie Barry, described a groping by Harris during a studio interview she conducted in her previous broadcasting career. Hide taunted her in his newspaper column, urging her to use her parliamentary privilege to breach the name suppression order protecting the defendant in the Queenstown suppressed indecency case.\n\nHide is now married to Louise Crome, and the couple have three children, Liberty, Grace, and Erisson; and Hide has a son from his previous marriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25776264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25776264", "title": "Smoking and Health: Report of the Advisory Committee to the Surgeon General of the United States", "text": "Smoking and Health: Report of the Advisory Committee to the Surgeon General of the United States\n\nSmoking and Health: Report of the Advisory Committee to the Surgeon General of the United States was a landmark report published on January 11, 1964 by the Surgeon General's Advisory Committee on Smoking and Health, chaired by the then Surgeon General of the United States, Dr. Luther Leonidas Terry, M.D., regarding the negative health effects of tobacco smoking. Although it was not the first such declaration, or the first declaration by an official of the United States of America, it is notable for being arguably the most famous such declaration, and it has certainly had lasting and widespread effects both on the tobacco industry and on the worldwide perception of smoking.\n\nThe health effects of tobacco had been debated by users, medical experts, and governments alike since its introduction to European culture. Hard evidence for the ill effects of smoking became apparent with the results of several long-term studies conducted in the early to middle twentieth century, such as the epidemiology studies of Richard Doll and pathology studies of Oscar Auerbach. On June 12, 1957, then-Surgeon General Leroy Burney \"declared it the official position of the U.S. Public Health Service that the evidence pointed to a causal relationship between smoking and lung cancer.\" A committee of the United Kingdom's Royal College of Physicians issued a report on March 7, 1962 which \"clearly indicted cigarette smoking as a cause of lung cancer and bronchitis\" and argued that \"it probably contributed to cardiovascular disease as well.\" After pressure from the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association, the National Tuberculosis Association, and the American Public Health Association, President John F. Kennedy authorized Surgeon General Terry's creation of the Advisory Committee. The committee met from November 1962 to January 1964 and analyzed over 7,000 scientific articles and papers.\n\nThe Surgeon General's Advisory Committee on Smoking and Health:\n\n\nThe report's conclusions were almost entirely focused on the negative health effects of cigarette smoking. It found:\nIn addition, it reported:\n\nAs did the World Health Organization during this period, but possibly influenced by the fact that they were all smokers themselves, the Committee defined cigarette smoking as a \"habituation\" rather than an overpowering \"addiction.\" Committee members agreed with most Americans that this habit (though often strong) was possible for individuals to break.<br>In the years that followed the Surgeon General's report, millions of Americans successfully chose to quit smoking, with two-thirds to three-quarters of ex-smokers quitting unaided by nicotine replacement methods. In addition, the \"cold turkey,\" or sudden-and-rapid-cessation, method has been found to be the most successful in terms stopping smoking over long periods of time. However, in a controversial move in 1989, a later Surgeon General, Dr. C. Everett Koop, M.D., shifted course and redefined cigarette smoking as \"an addiction\" rather than a habit.\n\nThe report's publication had wide effects across the United States and the world. It was deliberately published on a Saturday to minimize the negative effect on the American stock markets, while maximizing the coverage in Sunday newspapers. The release of the report was one of the top news stories of 1964. It led to policy and public opinion changes such as the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act of 1965 and the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act of 1969, which mandated warning labels on cigarettes and instituted a ban on the broadcasting of cigarette advertisements on radio and/or television.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11857205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11857205", "title": "Sompoan Yuvakok", "text": "Sompoan Yuvakok\n\nCommunist Youth League of Kampuchea () was a youth organization in Cambodia, the youth wing of the Communist Party of Kampuchea. The organization was initially called Democratic Youth League. It published \"Tung Krahom\".\n"}
{"id": "3320371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3320371", "title": "Soviet people", "text": "Soviet people\n\nSoviet people () or citizens of the USSR () or the Shrimp was an umbrella demonym (politonym) for the population of the Soviet Union. Initially used as a nonspecific reference to the Soviet population, it was eventually declared to be a \"new historical, social and international unity of people\".\n\nThrough the history of the Soviet Union, both doctrine and practice regarding ethnic distinctions within the Soviet population varied over time. Minority national cultures were not completely abolished in the Soviet Union. By Soviet definition, national cultures were to be \"socialist by content and national by form\", to be used to promote the official aims and values of the state. While the goal was always to cement the nationalities together in a common state structure, as a pragmatic step in the 1920s and early 1930s under the policy of korenizatsiya (indigenization) the leaders of the Communist Party promoted federalism and the strengthening of non-Russian languages and cultures (see national delimitation in the Soviet Union). By the late 1930s, however, policy shifted to more active promotion of Russian language and later still to more overt Russification efforts, which accelerated in the 1950s especially in areas of public education. Although some assimilation did occur, this effort did not succeed on the whole as evidenced by developments in many national cultures in the territory after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\nReinforcing the distinctions in national identities, the Soviet state maintained information about \"nationality\" on many administrative records, including school, work, and military records, as well as in the periodic censuses of population. The \"fifth record\" () was the section of the obligatory internal passport document which stated the citizen's ethnicity ().\n\nNikita Khrushchev had used the term in his speech at the 22nd Communist Party Congress in 1961, when he declared that in the USSR there had formed a new historical community of people of diverse nationalities, having common characteristics—the Soviet people.\n\nThe 24th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union finalized this definition. This single all-Soviet entity—the Soviet people, Sovietskiy narod—was attributed many of the characteristics that official doctrine had formerly ascribed to nations () and nationalities () composing the multi-national Soviet state. The \"Soviet people\" were said to be a \"new historical, social, and international community of people having a common territory, economy, and socialist content; a culture that reflected the particularities of multiple nationalities; a federal state; and a common ultimate goal: the construction of communism.\"\n\nAccording to the 2010 Russian Census 27,000 Russians identified themselves as members of the Soviet people.\n\n"}
{"id": "2878167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2878167", "title": "Surveyor General of the Northwest Territory", "text": "Surveyor General of the Northwest Territory\n\nThe Surveyor General of the Northwest Territory was a United States government official responsible for surveying land in the Northwest Territory in the United States late in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century. The position was created in the Land Act of 1796 to survey lands ceded by Indians northwest of the Ohio River and above the mouth of the Kentucky River. This act, and those that followed evolved into the Public Land Survey System.\n\nRufus Putnam was appointed to the office in 1797, and held it until 1803. His office was in Marietta. In 1801, the position was offered to Andrew Ellicott by Thomas Jefferson, but he refused, because he was upset at slow pay for work he had done for the Federal Government. Jared Mansfield held the office from 1803 to 1813. His office was in Cincinnati. Josiah Meigs held office 1813 to 1815, and Edward Tiffin from 1815 to his death in 1829. Tiffin had his office in Chillicothe. The Surveyor General of Illinois office was created on April 29, 1816, reducing effective area to Ohio, Indiana and Michigan. William Lytle served 1829 until his death in 1831. He moved the office back to Cincinnati. Micajah T. Williams held the office 1831 to 1834, when Robert Todd Lytle took over. Ezekiel S. Haines was appointed in 1838. Judge William Johnston held the office 1841-1845 as thanks for his efforts in supporting the Whig ticket in 1840. Lucius Lyon was appointed in 1845, and moved his office to Detroit. In June, 1845, the Ohio and Indiana offices were closed, and subsequent surveys were made under the Commissioner of the General Land Office. The Surveyor General was initially paid $2000 per year, and his deputies were paid three dollars per mile surveyed. \n\nPutnam was occupied in 1797 with laying off the Greenville Treaty Line and surveying the United States Military District and Moravian Indian Grants, and he started the survey of Congress Lands in 1798.\n\nMansfield is credited with \"considerable scientific ability and high standards of workmanship.\" He laid out astronomically the Indiana baseline and Second Principal Meridian, in spite of the difficulties. Pressures on him are illustrated in a letter Secretary of the Treasury Albert Gallatin wrote to Mansfield: \"The new act (March 13, 1805) is intended to palliate errors made in surveys north of the Ohio. At four dollars per mile, great correctness cannot be attained in that part of the country. Do your best at that price. Congress desires that corners and boundaries be definitely fixed, and the precise content of each is not equally important. A few acres more or less is not so important as it is that corners and boundaries should be known with precision to avoid litigation. It is of primary importance that the land should be surveyed and subdivided.\"\n\nTiffin established the scheme of guide meridians and standard parallels for townships distant from the principal meridians and baselines, which became a feature of the Public Land Survey System.\n\nOn March 3, 1803, a Surveyor General position was created for lands south of Tennessee, and there followed a number of similar positions over the next years. In 1822, the first surveying district was created, namely the state of Ohio, with an officer called Surveyor-General in charge.\n\nUntil the reorganization of the General Land Office in 1836, each Surveyor General acted more or less independently, setting his own standards for execution of field work.\n\nNorthwest Territory\n\n"}
{"id": "58107549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58107549", "title": "Taiwan Asia Exchange Foundation", "text": "Taiwan Asia Exchange Foundation\n\nTaiwan Asia Exchange Foundation (; Abbreviation: Taiya Foundation, ), established in 2018, is Taiwan's first private policy think tank focused on ASEAN and South Asia.\n\nIt was established in Taiwan by Professor Michael Hsiao, which focuses on the New Southbound Policy to connect Taiwan with 10 ASEAN countries and 6 South Asia countries and Australia and New Zealand in three domains including: think tank interaction, Non-governmental organization cooperation and civil society young leaders' cooperations between Taiwan and other countries.\n\n\nThe Taiwan Asia Exchange Foundation is funded by Minister of Foreign Affairs of Taiwan, started on June 1, 2018.\n\nTaiwan Asia Exchange Foundation TAEF Official website\n"}
{"id": "50780302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50780302", "title": "The Israel-Kurdistan Friendship League", "text": "The Israel-Kurdistan Friendship League\n\nThe Israel-Kurdistan Friendship League, possibly the first friendship association between Jews and Israelis and Muslim community in an Arab country was established in 1994 in Jerusalem, Israel, by several Israeli and Jewish activists of Kurdish origin or interest. http://library.columbia.edu/locations/global/virtual-libraries/middle_east_studies/minorities.html The founder was Mordechai Zaken and the main activists who worked together were the late Moshe Zaken, a business man from Jerusalem, Meir Baruch, a retired military person, Michael Niebur who spent some time in NGOs helping the Kurds, and Mathew B. Hand an American who promoted activity of coexistence with Muslims. The response of Kurdish representatives and organizations both in Kurdistan and the diaspora was enthusiastic as can be judged from hundreds of letters, phone calls and also email received in Jerusalem within short time after the announcement of its founding in the world press and in The Voice of America in the Kurdish language, which conducted interviews with the founder, Mordechai Zaken. The League also published a newsletter called yedidut (heb., friendship) carrying the message of Israeli and Jewish friendship to Kurds worldwide.[https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:YEDIDUT_Israeli-Kurdistan_Friendship-League_1993.pdf This is the newsletter called \"YEDIDUT\" (Hebrew, \"Friendship\") initiated by the main activists of the Israeli-Kurdistan Friendship League and sent to Kurdish activists and organizations worldwide.\nhttp://www.jpost.com/Middle-East/US-Israel-sympathetic-to-Kurds-but-lack-concrete-action-Kurdish-official-says-450934\n"}
{"id": "323466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=323466", "title": "Union for French Democracy", "text": "Union for French Democracy\n\nThe Union for French Democracy (, UDF) was a centre-right political party in France. It was founded in 1978 as an electoral alliance to support President Valéry Giscard d'Estaing in order to counterbalance the Gaullist preponderance over the political right in France. This name was chosen due to the title of Giscard d'Estaing's 1976 book, \"Démocratie Française\". The party brought together Christian democrats, liberals and radicals, and non-Gaullist conservatives, and described itself as centrist.\n\nThe founding parties of the UDF were Giscard's Republican Party (PR), the Centre of Social Democrats (CDS), the Radical Party (Rad.), the Social Democratic Party (PSD) and the Perspectives and Realities Clubs (CPR). The UDF was most frequently a junior partner in coalitions with the Gaullist Rally for the Republic (RPR) and its successor party, the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP). Prior to its dissolution, the UDF became a single entity, due to the defection of Republicans, Radicals and most Christian Democrats to the UMP and the merger of the other centrist components. The UDF effectively ceased to exist by the end of 2007, and its membership and assets were transferred to its successor party, the Democratic Movement (MoDem). The UDF's final leader was François Bayrou, who transferred his leadership to MoDem.\n\nIn 1974, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing was elected President of France. Two years later, his Gaullist Prime Minister Jacques Chirac resigned and created the Rally for the Republic (RPR) in order to restore the Gaullist domination over the republican institutions. Formally, this party stood in the right-wing parliamentary majority, but it criticised with virulence the policies of the executive duo composed of President Giscard d'Estaing and Prime Minister Raymond Barre.\n\nDuring campaigning for the 1978 legislative election, in his Verdun-sur-le-Doubs speech, President Giscard d'Estaing noted that the political leanings of the French people were divided among four groups: the Communists (PCF), the Socialists (PS), the Neo-Gaullists (RPR) and his own followers. He therefore sought to formally organise a political grouping which would represent the position of his followers. Consequently, the UDF confederation was born.\n\nContrary to the Neo-Gaullists, the Giscardian UDF advocated less economic interventionism by the state, the decentralisation in aid of the local authorities, and a strong commitment towards the building of a federal Europe. According to the historian René Rémond, the UDF descended from the Orleanist tradition of the right, whereas the RPR was a reincarnation of the Bonapartist tradition, which promotes national independence by virtue of a strong state.\n\nAfter the right (the RPR and UDF) won the 1978 legislative election and the subsequent focus of both groups towards the 1981 presidential campaign, the relations between the two parties of the parliamentary majority deteriorated. Indeed, RPR leader Jacques Chirac criticized the market-oriented and pro-European policy of the executive duo. During the 1979 European electoral campaign, Chirac published the Call of Cochin where the UDF was accused of being \"the foreign party\". As the UDF list, led by Simone Veil, obtained a very good result compared with RPR's score, the quarrels between the two parties and the rivalry between Giscard d'Estaing and Chirac contributed, in 1981, to the defeat of the incumbent UDF president who ran for a second term.\n\nAfter the election of François Mitterrand as president, the two centre-right parliamentary parties reconciled. Gradually, the RPR abandoned Gaullist doctrine and joined the market-oriented and pro-European positions of the UDF. Although, they presented a common list at the 1984 European Parliament election, their leaders Chirac and Barre competed for the leadership of the French centre-right. Focused on winning the 1986 legislative election, Chirac, unlike Barre, accepted the principle of \"cohabitation\" with President Mitterrand. Furthermore, some UDF politicians (notably from the Republican Party) covertly supported Chirac. Consequently, he became Prime Minister, from 1986 to 1988, and the UDF played a supporting role in his cabinet and in the parliamentary majority.\n\nBarre was a candidate in the 1988 presidential election, yet, despite his popularity, he was not supported by all UDF personalities. Giscard d'Estaing himself refused to choose clearly and publicly between his two former Prime Ministers. Eliminated in the first round, Barre called on his supporters to vote for Chirac in the second round, but despite this, Chirac was defeated by Mitterrand. After the re-election of Mitterrand, some UDF members participated as ministers in the left-wing cabinets of Prime Minister Michel Rocard. Others created a new parliamentary group, the Centrist Union, which occasionally voted with the Socialist Party or with the RPR.\n\nFor Giscard d'Estaing, Barre's failure to strengthen the UDF, allowed him retake the leadership of the UDF. However, his authority, and that of the other right-wing leaders (Chirac, Barre etc.) was contested by a new generation of politicians called the \"renovation men\", who accused the old guard leadership of bearing responsibility for the electoral defeats of the right.\n\nIn 1991, the dismissal of Rocard caused the departure of the centrist ministers from the government. All of the UDF and the RPR were allied in opposition to the Socialist power which was weakened by the economic crisis, scandals, and internal quarrels. The RPR/UDF coalition named \"Union for France\" comfortably won the 1993 legislative election and obtained a massive majority in the National Assembly. The new Neo-Gaullist Prime Minister Edouard Balladur nominated a large number of UDF members to his cabinet: François Léotard (PR) became minister of Defense, Gérard Longuet (PR) of Industry, Pierre Méhaignerie (CDS) of Justice, François Bayrou (CDS) of Education, Simone Veil (PR) of Health and Social Affairs, Alain Madelin (PR) of Commerce, Bernard Bosson (CDS) of Transport, Jean Puech (CDS) of Agriculture, André Rossinot (Rad) of Civil Service and Hervé de Charette (CPR) of Housing.\n\nDuring the 1995 presidential campaign the different components of the UDF were unable to agree on a common candidacy and consequently they divided between the two RPR candidates. Most UDF members supported Edouard Balladur, whereas a minority endorsed Jacques Chirac, as Valéry Giscard d'Estaing had proposed. Supporters of Giscard formed the Popular Party for French Democracy (PPDF), that succeeded to the Perspectives and Realities Clubs, while the CDS merged with the PSD into Democratic Force (FD). In 1996 a former \"balladurien\", François Léotard, was elected President of the UDF by defeating Alain Madelin.\n\nAfter Chirac's election as President of France, some UDF ministers were dismissed as a result of their support for Balladur. Nevertheless, in Alain Juppé's cabinet, the UDF was given several ministries including Foreign Affairs with Hervé de Charette (PPDF), Defense with Charles Millon (PR), Economy and Finances with Alain Madelin (PR), Industry with Yves Galland (Rad), Education with François Bayrou (CDS/FD), Commerce with Jean-Pierre Raffarin (PR), Labour with Jacques Barrot (CDS/FD), Agriculture with Philippe Vasseur (CDS/FD), Culture with Philippe Douste-Blazy (CDS/FD), Economic Development with Jean Arthuis (PR) and Reform and Decentralization with Claude Goasguen (PR).\n\nAfter the right-wing defeat in the 1997 legislative election, the UDF faced a major crisis. While the centrist components had merged into FD led by François Bayrou, the liberal-conservatives tried to overcome the \"chiraquiens\"/\"balladuriens\" fracture. The PR was joined by some politicians from the PPDF, such as Jean Pierre Raffarin (a former Republican) and was renamed Liberal Democracy (DL). DL soon began to reassert its autonomy within the alliance and finally broke ranks with the UDF in 1998. The event which triggered the split was the election of UDF politicians at the head of four regional councils, who won with support from the National Front. DL refused to condemn the arrangement, whilst the centrists did.\n\nThis led to a re-organisation of UDF into the New UDF (\"Nouvelle UDF\"). The new alliance was launched as a single party with the merger of FD and the Republican Independent and Liberal Pole (PRIL, formed in 1998 by those DL members who refused to leave UDF). The Radicals and the PPDF remained as autonomous entities within the new party.\n\nThe former leader of Democratic Force, François Bayrou became the natural leader of the New UDF. He conceived of it as the embryo of a future centrist party which would include politicians from both the left and right. Bayrou ran for president in the 2002 presidential election, but some UDF leaders supported Chirac. Chirac won reelection comfortably, with Bayrou being eliminated after the first round, having gained only 6.8% of the vote. Bayrou subsequently refused Chirac's invitation to his group, to join the newly forimed centre-right catch-all party, the Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) for the oncoming June 2002 parliamentary elections. Other UDF members, led by Philippe Douste-Blazy, Jacques Barrot and Pierre Méhaignerie, joined the UMP, leaving Bayrou somewhat isolated.\n\nPost-election, the UDF joined the victorious centre-right grouping as a partner in the cabinet of prime minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin. Despite this, the UDF sometimes criticised the policies of the French government, although it did not wish to quit the majority coalition and enter the opposition, which was made up mostly of centre-left and left-wing parties. Subsequently, the UDF quit the cabinet (except for Gilles de Robien), after a cabinet reshuffle on 31 March 2004, but still decided to remain in the parliamentary majority coalition.\n\nIn 2004, the party, along with Italy's Democracy is Freedom – The Daisy, was one of the founding members of the European Democratic Party, intended to be home to all those Christian democrats and centrists who were disillusioned with the new course of the European People's Party, which had welcomed the Rally for the Republic and later the UMP. With the exit of the most conservative, Christian-democratic and conservative-liberal components of the UDF in 1998 and 2002, the UDF was now more of a centrist party with socially liberal tendencies.\n\nThere developed a split among UDF elected officials, between those such as Gilles de Robien and Pierre-Christophe Baguet, who favored closer ties with the UMP, and those such as François Bayrou who advocate independent centrist policies, while others such as Jean Dionis du Séjour tried steering for a middle course. The most likely reason for many of the UDF's elected officials favouring close ties with the UMP was that most of the UDF's elected positions are obtained through cooperative alliances with UMP. However, the party's base overwhelmingly favored independence. At the congress of Lyon, on 28–29 January 2006, 91% of the members voted to retain the independence of the UDF from the UMP and transform it into an independent centrist party. This outcome meant that the orientation of the evolving UDF would be that of a social-liberal party aiming for a balance between social-democratic and conservative policies.\n\nOn 16 May 2006, François Bayrou and his 10 other UDF deputies voted for the motion of censure brought by the Socialist deputies calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin's government, following the Clearstream affair. This motion had no chance of being passed, given that UMP had an absolute majority in the Assembly. Following this event, France's television authority then classified Bayrou and the other UDF deputies who had voted for the motion as being in the opposition for time allocation purposes; however, after Bayrou protested, he was classified as neither majority nor opposition.\n\nOn 25 April 2007, François Bayrou announced that he would be submitting a plan to a vote by UDF members to create a new Democratic Movement, which was finally launched on 10 May. However, most of the UDF's deputies protested and formed the New Centre (to support Nicolas Sarkozy). In the subsequent legislative elections held in June, the MoDem won only 3 seats (but 7.6% of the vote) whilst its New Centre rivals won 22 seats (but only 2.4%).\n\nOn 30 November 2007, the UDF effectively ceased to exist, and was fully integrated within the Democratic Movement, headed by François Bayrou.\n\nUDF's most marked political trait was that it was in favor of European federalism, up to the point of turning the European Union into the United States of Europe. In that respect, UDF was the likely target of Chirac's Call of Cochin (1978), in which he denounced the pro-European policies of \"the party of the foreigners\".\n\nUntil 2002, the UDF spanned a somewhat wide ideological spectrum on the centre-right. A tongue-in-cheek characterisation of UDF's membership is that it was the union of everybody on the right that was neither far-right nor a Chirac supporter. However, the UDF suffered for its lack of cohesion, in contrast to the RPR. The economic policies proposed by UDF's leaders ranged from left-leaning, in favor of social justice, to strongly laissez-faire economics. Such divergences led the laissez-faire advocates of Liberal Democracy, such as Alain Madelin, to split out of UDF on 16 May 1998. This departure followed the elections of UDF politicians for the presidents of 4 regional councils with the votes of FN elects. Indeed, the Liberals refused to condemn these alliances.\n\nSimilarly, the social policies ranged from the conservatism of the likes of Christine Boutin, famously opposed to civil unions for homosexuals, to more socially progressive policies. Boutin was excluded from the UDF because of her strong social conservatism; in March 2001 she formed the Forum of Social Republicans, which is now affiliated with Les Républicains.\n\nDuring the 2007 presidential electoral campaign, François Bayrou presented himself as a centrist and a social-liberal, (he even opened the door to gay adoptions) proclaiming that if elected, he would \"govern beyond the left-right divide\". He won 18.6% of the vote, but this was not enough for him to reach the second round.\n\n\nOn 10 May 2007, when Bayrou launched his new Democratic Movement, only 6 deputies out of 29 (Pierre-Cristophe Baguet is not counted as he was expelled from the party on 10 October 2006) followed him (Gilles Artigues, Anne-Marie Comparini, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, Jean Lassalle, Gérard Vignoble and he himself). The others, comprising the members of Society in Movement and also Hervé Morin, Jean-Louis Bourlanges and other Bayrou's supporters until then, joined the presidential majority coalition in support of the new President Nicolas Sarkozy and formed a new \"centrist pole\" within it, the New Centre led by Hervé Morin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "460375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460375", "title": "Völkisch movement", "text": "Völkisch movement\n\nThe \"völkisch\" movement (, \"folkish movement\") was the German interpretation of a populist movement, with a romantic focus on folklore and the \"organic\", i.e.: a \"naturally grown community in unity\", characterised by the one-body-metaphor (\"Volkskörper\") for the entire population during a period from the late 19th century up until the Nazi era.\n\nThe term \"völkisch\" () derives from the German word \"Volk\" (cognate with the English \"folk\"), corresponding to \"ethnic group\" of a population and people, with connotations in German of \"people-powered\". According to the historian James Webb, the word also has \"overtones of 'nation', 'race' and 'tribe. The term \"völkisch\" has no direct English equivalent, but it could be rendered as \"ethnonationalistic\", \"racial-nationalistic\" or \"ethno-racialist\".\n\nThe \"völkisch\" \"movement\" was not a unified movement but \"a cauldron of beliefs, fears and hopes that found expression in various movements and were often articulated in an emotional tone\", Petteri Pietikäinen observed in tracing \"völkisch\" influences on Carl Gustav Jung. \nThe \"völkisch\" movement was \"arguably the largest group\" in the conservative revolutionary movement in Germany. However, like \"conservative-revolutionary\" or \"fascist\", \"völkisch\" is a complex term (\"schillernder Begriff\"). In a narrow definition it can be used to designate only groups that consider human beings essentially preformed by blood, i.e. by inherited characteristics.\n\nThe defining idea, which the \"völkisch\" movement revolved around, was that of a \"Volkstum\" (literally \"folkdom\", with a meaning similar to a combination of the terms \"folklore\" and \"ethnicity\"). \"Volkstümlich\" would be \"populist\", or \"popular\", in this context.\n\nThe \"völkisch\" movement had its origins in Romantic nationalism, as it was expressed by early Romantics such as Johann Gottlieb Fichte in his \"Addresses to the German Nation\" published during the Napoleonic Wars, from 1808 onwards, especially the eighth address, “What is a \"Volk,\" in the higher sense of the term, and what is love of the fatherland?\", where he answered his question of what could warrant the noble individual's striving \"and his belief in the eternity and the immortality of his work\", by replying that it could only be that \"particular spiritual nature of the human environment out of which he himself, with all of his thought and action ... has arisen, namely the people from which he is descended and among which he has been formed and grown into that which he is\".\n\nThe movement combined sentimental patriotic interest in German folklore, local history and a \"back-to-the-land\" anti-urban populism with many parallels in the writings of William Morris. \"In part this ideology was a revolt against modernity\", Nicholls remarked. The dream was for a self-sufficient life lived with a mystical relation to the land; it was a reaction to the cultural alienation of the Industrial revolution and the \"progressive\" liberalism of the later 19th century and its urbane materialist banality. Similar feelings were expressed in the US during the 1930s by the populist writers grouped as the Southern Agrarians. \n\nThe \"völkisch\" movement, as it evolved, sometimes combined the arcane and esoteric aspects of folkloric occultism alongside \"racial adoration\" and, in some circles, a type of anti-Semitism linked to exclusionary ethnic nationalism. Many \"völkisch\" movements included anti-communist, anti-immigration, anti-capitalist and anti-Parliamentarian ideas. Over time, \"völkisch\" ideas of \"national community\" (\"Volksgemeinschaft\") came more and more to exclude Jews.\n\nA number of the \"völkisch\"-populist movements that had evolved during the late 19th century in the German Empire, under the impress of National Romanticism, developed along propagandistic lines after the German defeat in World War I, and the word \"the people\" (\"Volk\") became increasingly politicized.\n\nThe same word \"Volk\" was used as a flag for new forms of ethnic nationalism, as well as by international socialist parties as a synonym for the proletariat in the German lands. From the left, elements of the folk-culture spread to the parties of the middle classes. But whereas \"Volk\" could mean \"proletariat\" among the left, it meant more particularly \"race\" among the center and right.\n\nAlthough the primary interest of the Germanic mystical movement was the revival of native pagan traditions and customs (often set in the context of a quasi-theosophical esotericism), a marked preoccupation with purity of race came to motivate its more politically oriented offshoots, such as the \"Germanenorden\" (the Germanic or Teutonic Order), a secret society founded at Berlin in 1912 which required its candidates to prove that they had no \"non-Aryan\" bloodlines and required from each a promise to maintain purity of his stock in marriage. Local groups of the sect met to celebrate the summer solstice, an important neopagan festivity in \"völkisch\" circles (and later in Nazi Germany), and more regularly to read the Eddas as well as some of the German mystics. This branch of the \"völkisch\" movement quickly developed a hyper-nationalist sentiment and allied itself with anti-semitism, then rising. One of the most important \"völkisch\" organizations after World War 1 was the Deutschvölkischer Schutz- und Trutzbund.\n\nAnother \"völkisch\" movement of the same time was the \"Tatkreis\".\n\nGeorge Mosse examined \"völkisch\" literature in 1966 and identified some of the more \"respectable\" and centrist channels through which these sensibilities flowed: school texts that transmitted a Romantic view of a \"pure\" Germanic past, the nature-oriented German Youth Movement, and novels with an ideally ruthless \"völkisch\" hero, such as Hermann Löns' \"Der Wehrwolf\" (1910).\n\nNot all folkloric societies with connections to Romantic nationalism were located in Germany. The \"Völkisch\" movement was a force as well in Austria. While the community of Monte Verità ('Mount Truth') which emerged in 1900 at Ascona, Switzerland, is described by the Swiss art critic Harald Szeemann as \"the southernmost outpost of a far-reaching Nordic lifestyle-reform, that is, alternative movement\". It embraced a mix of anarchism, libertarian communism and various forms of artistic bohemianism and neopaganism.\n\nThe \"völkisch\" ideologies were influential in the development of Nazism. Indeed, Joseph Goebbels publicly asserted in the 1927 Nuremberg rally that if the populist (\"völkisch\") movement had understood power and how to bring thousands out in the streets, it would have gained political power on 9 November 1918 (the outbreak of the SPD-led German Revolution of 1918–1919, end of the German monarchy). Adolf Hitler wrote in \"Mein Kampf\" (\"My Struggle\"): \"the basic ideas of the National-Socialist movement are populist (\"völkisch\") and the populist (\"völkisch\") ideas are National-Socialist.\" Nazi racial understanding was couched in \"völkisch\" terms, when Eugen Fischer delivered his inaugural address as Nazi rector, \"The Conception of the Völkisch state in the view of biology\" (29 July 1933).\nThe Thule Society was founded on 17 August 1918 by Rudolf von Sebottendorff with the original name of \"Studiengruppe für Germanisches Altertum\" (Study Group for Germanic Antiquity), and disseminated anti-republican and anti-Semitic propaganda. Karl Harrer, the Thule member most directly involved in the creation of the DAP in 1919, was sidelined at the end of the year when Hitler drafted regulations against conspiratorial circles, and the Thule Society was dissolved a few years later. The \"völkisch\" circles handed down one significant legacy to the Nazis: In 1919, Thule member Friedrich Krohn designed the original version of the Nazi swastika.\nIn January 1919, the Thule Society was instrumental in the foundation of the \"Deutsche Arbeiter-Partei\" (German Workers' Party, or DAP), which later became the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP), commonly called the Nazi Party. \"Thule\" members or visiting guests that would later join the Nazi Party included Rudolf Hess, Alfred Rosenberg, Hans Frank, Gottfried Feder, Dietrich Eckart and Karl Harrer. Notably Adolf Hitler never was a member of the \"Thule Society\" and Rudolf Hess and Alfred Rosenberg were only visiting guests of the Thule Society in the early years before they came to prominence in the Nazi movement. The \"Münchener Beobachter\" (\"Munich Observer\"), owned by Sebottendorff, was the press organ of another small nationalist party and later became the \"Völkischer Beobachter\" (\"People's Observer\"). The Thule Society had no members from the top echelons of the party and Nazi officials were forbidden any involvement in secret societies so the connection of \"völkisch\" ideologies with the NSDAP can be overstated. According to Nicholas Goodrick-Clarke, an imaginative mythology has grown up around the supposed influence of the \"Thule-Gesellschaft\" within the Nazi Party.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7855528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7855528", "title": "World Cultures", "text": "World Cultures\n\nWorld Cultures is an electronic peer-reviewed academic journal of cross-cultural studies. It was founded in 1985 by Douglas R. White, editor in chief until 1990, followed by Greg Truex 1991, J. Patrick Gray, Peter N. Peregrine (1992-2014). The current publisher is Greg Truex (2015-16). It is an eScholarship journal that publishes cross-cultural research articles and published computerized codebooks and datasets. These include the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample, Western North American Indians, an Atlas of Archaeology, the Ethnographic Atlas (Murdock, 1967), and Lewis Binford's Constructing Frames of Reference: An Analytical Method for Archaeological Theory Building Using Ethnographic and Environmental Data Sets (2001) and numerous other topics. Numerous software programs for cross-cultural analysis have also been published.\n\nPart of the purpose of the journal is to provide codebooks and data that are in the public domain for scientific use, at minimal cost of distribution, both to support scientific work and instructional use. New as well as legacy issues of the journal are at the free on-line site of the California Digital Library. The largest of the databases supported by the journal to date are the contributed multiauthored coded data for the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample, now numbering over 2,000 coded variables on 186 societies by over 90 different contributing authors.\n\n"}
{"id": "6739208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6739208", "title": "World Taiwanese Congress", "text": "World Taiwanese Congress\n\nWorld Taiwanese Congress () is an annual meeting for organizations promoting formal Taiwan independence. The organization is based in the United States and holds its annual meeting in Taiwan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56552634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56552634", "title": "Young Greens of Aotearoa New Zealand", "text": "Young Greens of Aotearoa New Zealand\n\nThe Young Greens of Aotearoa New Zealand (or simply Young Greens) is the youth wing of the Green Party of Aotearoa New Zealand, and a member of the Global Young Greens. The Young Greens represent Green Party members 35 years of age or under. The Young Greens were founded by MP and then Young Green Gareth Hughes in 2006.\n\nThe Young Greens have been involved in several different political campaigns, particularly around issues that affect youth. These include Keep It 18, which opposed raising the drinking age from 18 to 21; and petitioning parliament to ban conversion therapy, in a joint effort with fellow youth wing Young Labour.\n\nEach summer, a camp is traditionally held at Jeanette Fitzsimons' farm in the Coromandel Peninsula.\n\nThe Young Greens have a national executive, consisting of two co-convenors, a secretary, a membership secretary, a treasurer, five regional representatives, two social media coordinators, two Global Young Greens representatives, and a Te Tiriti o Waitangi representative.\n\nThe Young Greens have a presence at New Zealand's largest universities. As of 2018, there are Young Green campus groups at 7 universities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
