{"id": "422953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=422953", "title": "Appellate jurisdiction", "text": "Appellate jurisdiction\n\nAppellate jurisdiction is the power of a higher court to review decisions and change outcomes of decisions of lower courts. Most appellate jurisdiction is legislatively created, and may consist of appeals by leave of the appellate court or by right. Depending on the type of case and the decision below, appellate review primarily consists of: an entirely new hearing (a non trial de novo); a hearing where the appellate court gives deference to factual findings of the lower court; or review of particular legal rulings made by the lower court (an appeal on the record).\n\nUnder Article Three of the United States Constitution, the judicial power of the United States is vested in the Supreme Court of the United States and the inferior courts established by law. The Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure govern appellate proceedings.\n\nUnder its standard of review, an appellate court decides the extent of the deference it would give to the lower court's decision, based on whether the appeal was one of fact or one of law.\n\nIn reviewing an issue of fact, an appellate court ordinarily gives deference to the trial court's findings. It is the duty of trial judges or juries to find facts, view the evidence firsthand, and observe witness testimony. When reviewing lower decisions on an issue of fact, courts of appeal generally look for clear error.\n\nThe appellate court reviews issues of law de novo (anew, no deference) and may reverse or modify the lower court's decision if the appellate court believes the lower court misapplied the facts or the law.\n\nAn appellate court may also review the lower judge's discretionary decisions, such as whether the judge properly granted a new trial or disallowed evidence. The lower court's decision is only changed in cases of an \"abuse of discretion\". This standard tends to be even more deferential than the \"clear error\" standard.\n\nBefore hearing any case, the Court must have jurisdiction to consider the appeal.\n\n\n\n\nMandatory appellate jurisdictions must hear all properly filed appeals.\nDiscretionary appellate jurisdictions may pick and choose which cases are to be reviewed again and again.\n"}
{"id": "23589570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23589570", "title": "Area yield options contract", "text": "Area yield options contract\n\nAn area yield options contract is a contract entitling the holder to receive a payment when the area yield is below the put or above the call option strike yield. The strike yield is the yield at which the holder of an option contract can exercise the option.\n"}
{"id": "34845817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34845817", "title": "Astley v Verdun", "text": "Astley v Verdun\n\nAstley v Verdun, 2011 ONSC 3651, is a leading defamation decision released by Ontario Superior Court of Justice. The case was publicized for the amount of damages awarded to the plaintiff, and the permanent injunction ordered against the defendant.\n\nRobert Astley was the CEO and President of Clarica Life Assurance (formerly \"Mutual Life of Canada\") from 1993 to 2002. In 2002, Astley became the President of Sun Life Financial and oversaw the merger of Clarica and Sun Life. In 2004, Astley retired and became a director of the Bank of Montreal and the Canadian Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB). In 2008, Astley was appointed as Chairperson of the CPPIB.\n\nJ Robert Verdun was former newspaper publisher who was known for his controversial editorials. He frequently appeared at general shareholder meetings for public corporations to demand higher accountability to shareholders.\n\nIn December 2004, Verdun wrote an email to the Bank of Montreal chairperson to complain about Astley's appointment to the board. Verdun described Astley as \"unethical, greedy, and narrowly-focused\". At a later Bank of Montreal shareholder meeting, Verdun publicly called Astley a \"stain on this board\" and that Astley had no integrity or ethics.\n\nIn November 2005, Verdun filed a shareholders proposal with several banks that further defamed Astley.\n\nAstley's lawyers wrote to Verdun to warn him to stop defaming Astley. Instead, Verdun wrote to the Ontario Securities Commission to complain that Astley lacked the integrity to serve as director, and released the letter to the media.\n\nOver the years, Verdun publicly called Astley \"unethical\", \"corrupt\", \"dishonest\", \"a petty operator\", \"lacking in integrity\", and \"motivated by greed\".\n\nVerdun later wrote a book, The Fox in Charge of the Biggest Henhouse in Canada, which further defamed Astley. As a result, the book is not available in Canada.\n\nThe trial judge would later describe Verdun's actions as being motivated by malice.\n\nIn May 2006, Astley filed a statement of claim against Verdun, suing him for defamation. According to \"The Globe and Mail\" such defamation lawsuits are rare \"because companies and their top brass don't want to look as if they're muzzling small shareholders.\" shareholders \n\nFollowing Astley's filing of the statement of claim, various major newspapers reported on the case. Verdun claimed that Astley had provided the newspapers with a copy of the statement of claim in order to defame Verdun, and filed a counterclaim, suing Astley for defamation.\n\nOn April 15, 2008, the counterclaim was summarily dismissed for lack of compliance with the \"Libel and Slander Act\", which restricts lawsuits based on libel in a newspaper unless the plaintiff makes a complaint in writing within six weeks of plaintiff becoming aware of the alleged libel. Although notice is not an absolute requirement, the court found that there were no justified reasons for non-compliance.\n\nOn October 21, 2008, the Court of Appeal for Ontario dismissed Verdun's appeal. On March 5, 2009, the Supreme Court of Canada refused leave to appeal.\n\nRobert Verdun was self represented, and did not call any witnesses.\n\nOn May 20, 2011, a jury found that all eight statements by Verdun that Astley complained of were defamatory, and that Verdun had acted with malice. These statements included the emails to the Bank of Montreal board, the letter to the Ontario Securities Commission, the public statements made at the shareholder meetings, and the statements made in the shareholder proposals. The jury rejected the defences of qualified privilege and responsible communication.\n\nThe jury awarded damages against Verdun in the amount of $650,000, including $400,000 in aggravated damages. This is considered to be one of the largest amounts of aggravated damages for a defamation case in Canadian history.\n\nOn June 6, 2011, the court ordered a permanent injunction against Verdun. The order was:\n\nIn doing so, the judge found:\n\nThe judge agreed that restraining Verdun's freedom of speech should only be done in the clearest and rarest of cases. However, the judge went on to find that this was one of those cases. Verdun was later found guilty of contempt of the 2011 order, deliberately breaching the order without justification, excuse, or defence to the allegation of contempt of court.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36811941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36811941", "title": "Bahrain Thirteen", "text": "Bahrain Thirteen\n\nThe Bahrain Thirteen are thirteen Bahraini opposition leaders, rights activists, bloggers and Shia clerics arrested between 17 March and 9 April 2011 in connection with their role in the national uprising. In June 2011, they were tried by a special military court, the National Safety Court, and convicted of \"setting up terror groups to topple the royal regime and change the constitution\"; they received sentences ranging from two years to life in prison. A military appeal court upheld the sentences in September. The trial was \"one of the most prominent\" before the National Safety Court. A retrial in a civilian court was held in April 2012 but the accused were not released from prison. The sentences were upheld again on 4 September 2012. On 7 January 2013, the defendants lost their last chance of appeal when the Court of Cassation, Bahrain's top court upheld the sentences.\n\nThe thirteen are Abdulhadi al-Khawaja, Abdulhadi al-Mukhodher, Abduljalil al-Miqdad, Abduljalil al-Singace, Abdulla al-Mahroos, Abdulwahab Hussain, Hasan Mushaima, Ibrahim Sharif, Mohamed Habib al-Miqdad, Mohamed Hasan Jawad, Mohamed Ismail, Sa’eed al-Nuri and Salah al-Khawaja. They were originally twenty-one, but seven were tried \"in absentia\" and one was released in April 2012. The thirteen became popular heroes in Bahrain, and analysts speculated that the government was concerned that their release might re-energize the protest movement and frustrate government supporters who oppose any royal pardons.\n\nThe trial, conviction and sentencing of the Bahrain Thirteen drew expressions of concern from European Union, Denmark, France, Ireland, United Kingdom and United States, and international organizations including the United Nations, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, Reporters Without Borders, Committee to Protect Journalists and Human Rights First. The government of Bahrain maintained that trials were fair. The Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry (BICI), an independent inquiry commissioned by the King of Bahrain, concluded in November 2011 that there had been a discernible pattern of mistreatment to the defendants while in prison.\n\nIn February 2011 the Bahraini authorities sought to repress pro-democracy protests around the Pearl Roundabout, a traffic circle near the financial district in Bahrain's capital Manama (part of the wider Arab Spring movement). On 17 February, in an attack by police that subsequently became known as Bloody Thursday; four protesters died and more than 300 were injured. Protests involving up to one fifth of the population continued over the next month until the government called in Gulf Cooperation Council troops and police and declared a three-month state of emergency. Despite the brutal crack-down that followed, smaller-scale protests and clashes continued, mostly outside Manama's business districts. By April 2012, more than 80 people had died during the uprising. As of December 2012, protests are ongoing.\n\nAmnesty International coined the name \"Bahrain 13\" to refer to the men, which was later adopted by some media sources. Their case is known locally as the Case of Icons () and the Group of 21 (). They were originally twenty-one, but seven were tried in absentia and one was released in April 2012. The seven tried in absentia were either hiding or outside the country.\n\nThe Bahrain Thirteen played an important role in mobilizing the public opinion against the government, organizing protests and shaping political demands. Some of the group were already in detention when the uprising began, having been arrested in the Manama incident the previous August, and were released on 22 February 2011. Abdulwahab Hussain and Hassan Mushaima, leaders of opposition parties Al Wafa' and Haq Movement respectively, were among the leaders of the 1990s uprising in Bahrain.\n\nMushaima was a leading member in Al Wefaq opposition group until resigning in 2005 due to their decision to run in 2006 parliamentary election. He then founded the Haq Movement. In 2010, the London-based activist was sentenced in absentia over an alleged plot to overthrow the government, however the charges were dropped in February 2011 as a part of government concessions to the opposition. This allowed Mushaima to return to Bahrain on 26 February and join the protest movement. Abduljalil al-Singace, a blogger and once the chair of University of Bahrain Engineering Department followed Mushaima's path; he resigned from his position in Al Wefaq as public relations chief and joined Haq in 2005 as the head of human rights department. He was among the arrested in August 2010 and joined the uprising when he was released on 22 February. The Haq Movement supported protest plans.\n\nAbdulwahab Hussain was also a member of Al Wefaq who resigned in 2005. Unlike Mushaima and al-Singace, Hussain left politics in 2005. He returned in 2009 when he co-founded Al Wafa' opposition group and became its official spokesperson. He played a bigger role in the uprising; he was not arrested when the uprising began nor was he outside the country. Hussain led the first demonstration in the uprising in the early hours of 14 February. He is also credited with suggesting autonomous action and total decentralization of the protest movement which was adopted by February 14 Youth Coalition, the group behind the call for an uprising in order to avoid getting infiltrated by government.\n\nAbduljalil al-Miqdad is a prominent Shia and political activist, and a co-founder of Al Wafa'. He resigned from the Bahrain Ulama Council in 2005. The relationship between al-Miqdad and Al Wafa' is comparable to that of Isa Qassim and Al Wefaq; its unofficial spiritual leader. Sa'eed al-Nori is a religious, political activist and vocal critic of the government, and member of Al Wafa'. He was among the arrested in August 2010. Mohamed Ismail is a political activist with close relations to Abdulwahab Hussain.\n\nIn March 2011, Haq, Al Wafa' and Bahrain Freedom Movement formed a \"Coalition for a [Bahraini] Republic\", calling for the downfall of the current regime by escalation of peaceful protests and the establishment of a democratic republic. While they accepted a western-style constitutional monarchy in principle, saying it was \"not very different from a republic\", they doubted the regime would voluntarily implement such a radical change and argued that toppling it was unavoidable. The newly found coalition supported a controversial, yet peaceful protest heading to the Royal Court in Riffa. The rally ended in chaos after it was dispersed by security forces and \"pro-government Sunni vigilantes\".\n\nAbdulhadi al-Khawaja, described by the Index on Censorship as one of the best-known human rights activists in the world, is the co-founder of the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights and a vocal critic of the government. Al-Khawaja was arrested in 2004 and 2007, and reportedly beaten in 2005 over his opposition activities. He holds Danish and Bahraini dual citizenship. His role in the uprising was much less; his activities were limited to \"organising peaceful awareness-raising and human rights education\". He said he had intentionally kept himself away from the Pearl Roundabout in order to avoid \"giv[ing] the authorities any reason to arrest\" him. Salah al-Khawaja is a former member of Islamic Action Society (Amal) and brother of Abdulhadi al-Khawaja. During the uprising, he sought to document events and contact international media.\n\nIbrahim Sharif is an opposition leader and president of the secular, leftist, cross-sectarian National Democratic Action Society (Wa'ad). Wa'ad is allied with Al Wefaq opposition group. They organized many protests calling for an elected government and a constitutional monarchy. Sharif is the only Sunni member of Bahrain Thirteen, the rest being Shia. His Sunni identity undermines the attempts of government of Bahrain to visualize the protest movement as a sectarian and pro-Iranian plot, and shows that it has support from parts of the Sunni community. Ten days before the uprising, Sharif demanded \"local reform\" in a rally in solidarity with the 2011 Egyptian Revolution, however Wa'ad only announced a day before the protests that it supported \"the principle of the right of the youth to demonstrate peacefully\".\n\nMohamed Habib al-Miqdad -cousin of Abduljalil al-Miqdad- is a prominent religious and political leader, president of al-Zahraa Society for Orphans and holds Bahraini and Swedish dual citizenship. Al-Miqdad is also a vocal critic of the government. Abdulla al-Mahroos is a religious and political activist, vice president of al-Zahraa Society for Orphans and a vocal critic of the government. Abdulhadi al-Mukhodher is a Shia cleric. Mohamed Hasan Jawad is a rights activist. He is also an uncle of Nabeel Rajab, a Bahraini opposition leader, and a father of Hussain Jawad, a prominent human rights defender, arrested in February 2015. All of the four (Mohamed Habib al-Miqdad, Abdulla al-Mahroos, Abdulhadi al-Mukhodher and Mohamed Hasan Jawad) were among the arrested in August 2010.\n\nThe arrests of the Bahrain Thirteen took place between 17 March 2011 and 9 April, due to their role in the uprising. The first to be arrested were Abdulhadi al-Mukhodher, Abduljalil al-Singace, Abdulwahab Hussain, Ibrahim Sharif, Hassan Mushaima and Saeed al-Nuri, and the last was Abdulhadi al-Khawaja. Most were arrested by security forces during the night. According to the Bahrain Centre for Human Rights, no warrants were shown and many of the detainees were beaten during their arrest. They were held in al-Qurain military prison and on 28 November they were transferred to Jaw prison.\n\nFollowing their arrest the activists were kept in solitary confinement for weeks during which they were allegedly subjected to torture by Bahrain National Security Agency (NSA) officers seeking to secure confessions and for punishment. This reportedly included sexual assaults.\n\nIn April, a patient in the Military Hospital saw Ibrahim Sharif with his face swollen, raising concerns that he may have been tortured. According to Amnesty International, Abdulhadi al-Khawaja suffered fractures of the jaw and head and bruising of the arms during his first month in detention, allegedly as a result of torture. After a six-day hospitalization during which he underwent several operations, torture was reportedly resumed. According to Human Rights Watch (HRW) signs of mistreatment were visible on al-Khawaja's face during the first trial session in May and Hassan Mushaima and Abdulwahab Hussain were seen to have noticeable limps. Bahrain Centre for Human Rights published detailed allegations of the torture allegedly inflicted on the Bahrain Thirteen.\n\nOn 8 May 2011, the authorities declared that none of the Bahrain Thirteen had been subjected to torture, stating that information from the Military Hospital and the Salmaniya Medical Complex showed that neither hospital had admitted or treated any of the detainees. Rumours of admissions and hospitalization were said to have been fabricated and politically motivated.\n\nThe Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry, established by the King of Bahrain in June 2011, which found that hundreds of detainees had been subjected to torture and other forms of physical and psychological abuse, observed a discernible pattern of mistreatment with regard to 14 political leaders including the Bahrain Thirteen. According to the Commission's report, torture at al-Qurain prison, where the Bahrain Thirteen were held, stopped after 10 June.\n\nThe Bahrain Thirteen were sent for trial initially by the National Safety Court, a special military court set up in March 2011 to try protesters, opposition leaders, rights activists, health workers and other supporters or perceived supporters of the Bahraini uprising. The trial was \"one of the most prominent\" before the National Safety Court. The first hearing on 8 May 2011 marked the first time the fourteen defendants originally charged had seen their families since their arrest and for some it was the first time they had met with their lawyers. All fourteen denied the charges against them.\n\nThe two main charges were of \"setting up terror groups to topple the royal regime and change the constitution\" and of \"collaborating with a foreign state\", an apparent reference to Iran, and other charges included \"insulting the army, inciting hatred, disseminating false information and taking part in rallies without notifying the authorities.\" Front Line Defenders and Human Rights First observers were denied entry to the trial, but a few Bahraini NGO observers were present. According to Human Rights Watch all of the activities with which the fourteen were charged \"related to speech and peaceful assembly\" and none were criminal offenses.\n\nOn 22 June, seven of the defendants were sentenced to life imprisonment, four to fifteen years in prison, two to five years and one to two years. After they protested loudly when the sentence was read, they were forcibly removed from the court. Amnesty International concluded that an appeal session on 6 September had heard no evidence to support charges. The military appeal court hearing on 28 September took a few minutes before the court upheld all the convictions. In November, the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry asked for a retrial in civilian courts, because they were convicted in military courts.\n\nOn 29 January the fourteen began a one-week hunger strike which was joined, according to rights activist Mohamed al-Maskati, by another 150 prisoners. The object of the hunger strike was to demand an end to the political crackdown, protest against their trials and demand the release of prisoners of conscience. Abdulhadi al-Khawaja subsequently went on a new 110-day hunger strike. He was transferred to hospital in April as he kept reducing the amount of his glucose intake. On 30 April 2012, the Court of Cassation reduced Al-Hur Yousef al-Somaikh's sentence from two years to six months and he was released as he had already served his sentence. The court also announced that the thirteen other defendants would be retried by a (civilian) criminal court of appeal, but they were not released from prison, leading to criticism from the United Nations.\n\nThe first hearing before the High Criminal Court of Appeal, due to take place on 8 May, was postponed to 22 May. Abdulhadi al-Khawaja, on the ninetieth day of his hunger strike, was brought to court in a wheelchair. All the defendants pleaded not guilty. Al-Khawaja and Abdulwahab Hussain told of being subjected to torture during the initial weeks of their detention, the former stating that he had been sexually assaulted and the latter that he had been forced to sign a written statement. On 19 June, defence lawyers asked the court to disregard confessions that the BICI report had suggested were obtained by torture but the public prosecutor insisted on their inclusion in the evidence. According to Bahrain Centre for Human Rights, these confessions were the sole evidence submitted to the court.\n\nDuring the same session, cleric Mohamed Habib al-Miqdad made a long testimony in which he described alleged torture and renounced his accusation that Nasser Al Khalifa, the son of the king had tortured him in person. The thirteen asked their defense lawyers to stop representing them after the judge decided to continue hearings in secret and subsequently banned media coverage of the case, due to \"national security reasons\". New lawyers were appointed by court and the judge declared that the final judgment would be given even if the defendants refused to attend. The Court originally expected to give its final verdict on 14 August was attended by a number of foreign diplomats, but the session was deferred until 4 September with no specific reason given. The verdict was expected to have a significant impact on the course of the uprising and analysts suggested that the government was uncertain how to deal with the defendants who became popular heroes, given that their release was likely to give new impetus to the protest movement.\n\nA few days prior to the expected verdict on 4 September, which was also the expected day of the verdict of 28 health workers and Zainab al-Khawaja, Human Rights First said it could be a \"transformative day for human rights\" in Bahrain \"if the right decisions are made\". On 4 September, the appeal court upheld the sentences on all of the Thirteen; who did not attend the session. Analysis said the decision was likely to fuel political tensions and street clashes, and highlight the low chances of any reconciliation in near future. Witnesses reported that protesters set tires on fire and clashed with security forces in several Shia villages following the verdict and one protester was severely injured by a stun grenade.\n\nOn 7 January, the Cassation Court, Bahrain's top court upheld the sentences. With the court decision the thirteen defendants (who did not attend the trial) had exhausted their last chance to appeal. The only avenue that remains for their release is a royal pardon.\n\n – Catherine Ashton, the High Representative of European Union said she was \"disappointed and concerned\" by the sentences. \"I am disappointed and concerned at the decision of the Bahraini Court of Appeal to uphold the harsh sentences against Mr Abdulhadi Khawaja and nineteen other individuals,\" she added.\n\nNavi Pillay, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), expressed serious concern at the trials, which bore the marks of \"political persecution\". She called for an immediate end to trials of civilians in the Court of National Safety and the immediate release of all peaceful demonstrators arrested in connection with the February protest movement. Rupert Colville, spokesperson for OHCHR, also referred to the sentences as \"harsh\" and expressed deep concern over \"serious due process irregularities\". Four United Nations Special Rapporteurs demanded immediate release of Abdulhadi al-Khawaja.\n\n – Villy Søvndal, Denmark's Foreign Minister said the appeal court sentence was \"very disappointing\" and that further international action would be taken to secure release of al-Khawaja and \"the other human rights and democracy fighters in Bahrain\". Jeppe Kofod, the Foreign policy spokesperson asked the Danish parliament to discuss possible sanctions on Bahrain. Eight parties in the Danish parliament appealed to king of Bahrain to release Abdulhadi al-Khawaja and his daughter, Zainab.\n\nA number of rights groups criticized the sentences. Amnesty International designated the Thirteen prisoners of conscience and called for their immediate and unconditional release. It also called for an independent investigation of their allegations of mistreatment and urged that those responsible should be brought to justice, criticizing the Bahraini authorities for what it called a travesty of justice and said sentences were yet another proof that Bahrain was not on the path of reforms. Human Rights Watch demanded the prisoners' immediate release; according to HRW's Middle East and North Africa Deputy Director Joe Stork, the military court’s original verdict was \"absolutely mind-boggling\", failing to mention a single actual criminal offense beyond acts relating to the defendants' basic human rights.\n\nReporters Without Borders was shocked by the lengthy sentences and very worried about the physical condition of al-Singace whose release it demanded, along with that of all the other prisoners of conscience. The Committee to Protect Journalists condemned the sentences and dismissed the charges as political score-settling. The Arabic Network for Human Rights Information condemned the sentences as vindictive. The International Federation for Human Rights and the World Organization Against Torture expressed their \"utmost concern\" at the sentences and demanded the immediate and unconditional release of the Bahrain Thirteen. Human Rights First criticized what it called a \"large political show trial\" and declared that the sentences revealed the \"travesty\" of Bahrain’s military courts. Upon reading the appeal sentence, it criticized it and said reform claims were \"sham\".\n\nEnglish PEN said it was shocked by the lengthy sentence handed down to al-Singace and demanded his release along with all of those imprisoned for peaceful expression of opinion. Jane Kinninmont of Chatham House said that the government \"may be trying to show their strength ahead of a planned dialogue with political societies\" and that western pressure is limited due to Saudi support. Front Line Defenders, who's al-Khawaja was its Middle East Protection Coordinator for three years condemned his sentence and demanded his immediate and unconditional release. Brazilian political cartoonist, Carlos Latuff produced a cartoon labeled \"The Lady Justice of Bahrain\" depicting king of Bahrain holding a blood stained sword in a hand and dropping Scales of Justice in the trash with the other.\n\nThe government of Bahrain said that trials were fair and judiciary independent. \"The court provided all assurances of a fair trial through a team of 17 defense attorneys selected by the defendants. The trial was attended by many diplomats of various nationalities ... as well as representatives of human rights and other civil society organizations,\" Information Affairs Authority said. Responding to the various international reactions, the Human Rights Affairs Ministry rejected \"any intervention by any state or organization\". Government supporters praised the sentences asking for no pardons to be given to the thirteen. Mohammed Khalid, a former MP and a hard-line cleric wrote \"God is great! God is great!\" on Twitter.\n\nMany Sunnis (who compromise a substantial minority) support the government and see the Thirteen as dangerous revolutionaries that would destabilize the country should they succeed in toppling the monarchy. Government hardliners and Sunni political groups often call for harsh and no compromise approach, including calling for no pardons and death sentences. To their many supporters (in Bahrain and abroad) however, the Thirteen are heroes and prisoners of conscience jailed unfairly for nothing more than calling for democracy. Their faces appear daily in banners during protests.\n\nIsa Qassim, Bahrain's top Shia cleric criticized the trials as unfair. He said the sentences were \"like a dam preventing people from participating in dialogue\". The prominent human rights activist al-Khawaja family did not welcome the retrial. Maryam al-Khawaja considered it \"sad news not good news\", describing the court as a tool used by the regime against its people. She said she was not shocked by the civil court sentence, as there were \"no international consequences and accountability for the Bahrain regime\". Al-Khawaja's wife found the decision ridiculous and said that the government was \"playing for time\". Bahrain Centre for Human Rights maintained that the sentences were based on confessions extracted under torture and the testimony of the alleged torturers. Its head, Nabeel Rajab, criticized the military trial sentence as unfair and falling short of international standards.\n\nBahrain Youth Society for Human Rights expressed its concern at what it called \"violations\" against the Bahrain Thirteen. The Al Wefaq political party said that the sentences were hindering efforts at dialogue and damaging the country's international reputation. It rejected the appeal sentence and said they were contradictory to solving the crisis. The Bahraini Press Association described the verdict as \"unfair and outrageous\" and \"marred by abuses and violations of all legal and human rights standards\". Human rights lawyer Mohamed al-Tajer said the appeal verdict was \"shocking\" and that \"[t]he judge dismissed the appeal\". In an op-ed in \"Al Wasat\", Kassim Hussain argued that the most remembered words about the case of Bahrain Thirteen would be Ibrahim Sharif's words: \"These [political] trials are trials of ideas\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25332045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25332045", "title": "Bellagio declaration", "text": "Bellagio declaration\n\nThe Bellagio Declaration is a resolution formed in 1993, with the aim of reforming intellectual property laws in order to foster the protection of folkloric works, works of cultural heritage, and the biological and ecological know-how of traditional peoples.\n\nIt was from the 1993 Rockefeller Conference \"Cultural Agency/Cultural Authority: Politics and Poetics of Intellectual Property in the Post-Colonial Era\".\n\n"}
{"id": "312045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312045", "title": "Birmingham Six", "text": "Birmingham Six\n\nThe Birmingham Six were six men: Hugh Callaghan, Patrick Joseph Hill, Gerard Hunter, Richard McIlkenny, William Power and John Walker, who, in 1975, were each sentenced to life imprisonment following their false convictions for the Birmingham pub bombings. Their convictions were declared unsafe and unsatisfactory and quashed by the Court of Appeal on 14 March 1991. The six men were later awarded compensation ranging from £840,000 to £1.2 million.\n\nThe Birmingham pub bombings took place on 21 November 1974 and were attributed to the Provisional IRA. Explosive devices were placed in two central Birmingham pubs: the Mulberry Bush at the foot of the Rotunda, and the Tavern in the Town – a basement pub in New Street. The resulting explosions, at 20:25 and 20:27, collectively were the most injurious attacks in Great Britain since World War II (until surpassed by the 7 July 2005 London bombings); 21 people were killed (ten at the Mulberry Bush and eleven at the Tavern in the Town) and 182 people were injured. A third device, outside a bank in Hagley Road, failed to detonate.\n\nSix men were arrested, of whom five were Belfast-born Roman Catholics, while John Walker was a Roman Catholic born in Derry. All six had lived in Birmingham since the 1960s. All the men except for Callaghan had left the city early on the evening of 21 November from New Street Station, shortly before the explosions. They were travelling to Belfast to attend the funeral of a Provisional Irish Republican Army member who had accidentally killed himself while planting a bomb in Coventry.\n\nWhen they reached Heysham they and others were subject to a Special Branch stop and search. The men did not tell the police of the true purpose of their visit to Belfast, a fact that was later held against them. While the search was in progress the police were informed of the Birmingham bombings. The men agreed to be taken to Morecambe police station for forensic tests.\n\nOn the morning of 22 November, after the forensic tests and questioning at the hands of the Morecambe police, the men were transferred to the custody of West Midlands Serious Crime Squad police unit. William Power alleged that he was assaulted by members of Birmingham Criminal Investigation Department. Callaghan was taken into custody on the evening of 22 November.\n\nWhile the men were in the custody of the West Midlands Police they were deprived of food and sleep, they were interrogated sometimes for up to 12 hours without a break; threats were made against them and the beatings started: ranging from punches, letting dogs within a foot of them and being the subjects of a mock execution. Power confessed while in Morecambe while Callaghan, Walker and McIlkenny confessed at Queens Road in Aston; Hill and Hunter did not sign any documents.\n\nOn 12 May 1975 the six men were charged with murder and conspiracy to cause explosions. Three other men, James Kelly, Michael Murray and Michael Sheehan, were charged with conspiracy and Kelly and Sheehan also faced charges of unlawful possession of explosives.\n\nThe trial began on 9 June 1975 at the Crown Court sitting at Lancaster Castle, before Mr Justice Bridge and a jury. After legal arguments the statements made in November were deemed admissible as evidence. The unreliability of these statements was later established. Thomas Watt provided circumstantial evidence about John Walker's association with Provisional IRA members.\n\nForensic scientist Dr Frank Skuse used positive Griess test results to claim that Hill and Power had handled explosives. Callaghan, Hunter, McIlkenny and Walker all had tested negative. GCMS tests at a later date were negative for Power and contradicted the initial results for Hill. Skuse's claim that he was 99% certain that Power and Hill had explosives traces on their hands was opposed by defence expert Dr Hugh Kenneth Black of the Royal Institute of Chemistry, the former HM Chief Inspector of Explosives, Home Office. Skuse's evidence was clearly preferred by Bridge. The jury found the six men guilty of murder. On 15 August 1975, they were each sentenced to 21 life sentences.\n\nOn 28 November 1974, the men appeared in court for the second time after they had been remanded into custody at HM Prison Winson Green. All showed bruising and other signs of ill-treatment. Fourteen prison officers were charged with assault in June 1975, but were all acquitted at a trial presided over by Mr. Justice Swanwick. The Six brought a civil claim for damages against the West Midlands Police in 1977, which was struck out on 17 January 1980 by the Court of Appeal (Civil Division), constituted by the Master of the Rolls, Lord Denning, Goff LJ and Sir George Baker, under the principle of estoppel.\n\nDuring proceedings, prison officers and police were blamed for the beatings.\n\nIn March 1976 their first application for leave to appeal was dismissed by the Court of Appeal, presided over by Lord Widgery CJ. Journalist Chris Mullin investigated the case for Granada TV's \"World in Action\" series. In 1985, the first of several \"World in Action\" programmes casting doubt on the men's convictions was broadcast. In 1986, Mullin's book, \"Error of Judgment: The Truth About the Birmingham Pub Bombings\", set out a detailed case supporting the men's claims that they were innocent. It included his claim to have met some of those who were actually responsible for the bombings.\n\nThe Home Secretary, Douglas Hurd, referred the case back to the Court of Appeal. In January 1988, after a six-week hearing (at that time the longest criminal appeal hearing ever held), the convictions were ruled to be safe and satisfactory. The Court of Appeal, presided over by the Lord Chief Justice Lord Lane, dismissed the appeals. Over the next three years, newspaper articles, television documentaries and books brought forward new evidence to question the safety of the convictions, while campaign groups calling for the men's release were formed in Britain, Ireland, Europe and the US.\n\nTheir second full appeal, in 1991, was allowed. Hunter was represented by Lord Gifford QC, the others by Michael Mansfield QC. New evidence of police fabrication and suppression of evidence, the successful attacks on both the confessions and the 1975 forensic evidence caused the Crown to decide not to resist the appeals. The Court of Appeal, constituted by Lord Justices Lloyd, Mustill and Farquharson, stated that \"in the light of the fresh scientific evidence, which at least throws grave doubt on Dr. Skuse's evidence, if it does not destroy it altogether, these convictions are both unsafe and unsatisfactory.\" On 14 March 1991 the six walked free.\n\nIn 2001, a decade after their release, the six men were awarded compensation ranging from £840,000 to £1.2 million.\n\nRichard McIlkenny, one of the six men wrongly convicted of the Birmingham pub bombings, died of cancer on 21 May 2006, aged 73. He had returned to Ireland shortly after he was freed from prison, and died in hospital with his family at his bedside. McIlkenny was buried on 24 May in Celbridge, County Kildare. Four other members of the Birmingham Six were present at his wake and funeral.\n\nOf the five surviving members of the Birmingham Six, Patrick Hill currently resides in Ayrshire; Gerard Hunter in Portugal; John Walker in Donegal; and both Hugh Callaghan and William Power in London.\n\nThe success of the appeals and other miscarriages of justice caused the Home Secretary to set up a Royal Commission on Criminal Justice in 1991. The commission reported in 1993 and led to the Criminal Appeal Act 1995 which established the Criminal Cases Review Commission in 1997. Superintendent George Reade and two other police officers were charged with perjury and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice but were never prosecuted. During the inquest into the bombings in 2016, Hill stated that he knew the identities of three of the bombers who were still \"free men\" in Ireland.\n\nOn 28 March 1990, ITV broadcast the Granada Television documentary drama, \"Who Bombed Birmingham?\", which re-enacted the bombings and subsequent key events in Chris Mullin's campaign. Written by Rob Ritchie and directed by Mike Beckham, it starred John Hurt as Mullin, Martin Shaw as \"World in Action\" producer Ian McBride, Ciaran Hinds as Richard McIlkenny, one of the Six, and Patrick Malahide as Michael Mansfield (QC). It was repackaged for export as \"The Investigation – Inside a Terrorist Bombing\", and first shown on American television on 22 April 1990. Granada's BAFTA-nominated follow-up documentary after the release of the six men, \"World in Action Special: The Birmingham Six – Their Own Story\", was telecast on 18 March 1991. It was released on DVD in 2007 in Network DVD's first volume of \"World in Action\" productions.\n\nIn 1994, Frank Skuse brought libel proceedings against Granada, contending that \"World in Action\" had falsely portrayed him as negligent. His counsel asserted in the High Court that scientific tests performed in 1992, after the Crown's substantive concession of the accused men's third appeal, showed that traces of nitroglycerine were detected on swabs taken after the bombings from the hands of Hunter and Hill, and on rail tickets handled by McIlkenny and Power. Granada maintained there were never any traces of explosives on the six men. Skuse abandoned the action in 1994.\n\nChannel 4 was enjoined in December 1987 by the Court of Appeal of England and Wales from re-enacting portions of a hearing in the court case because it was \"likely to undermine public confidence in the administration of justice\" if shown during their appeal, in violation of the Contempt of Court Act 1981. The decision has been criticised for having a \"chilling effect\" on other programmes.\n\n\"The New York Times\" indicated that the Six sued publications for reporting slurs against them. In 1993 and 1994 the Birmingham Six recovered an undisclosed amount from both \"The Sunday Telegraph\" and \"The Sun\" in an action for libel for the newspapers' reporting of police statements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28951121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28951121", "title": "Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Ass'n", "text": "Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Ass'n\n\nBrown v. Entertainment Merchants Association, 564 U.S. 786 (2011), is a landmark case by the Supreme Court of the United States that struck down a 2005 California law banning the sale of certain violent video games to children without parental supervision. In a 7–2 decision, the Court upheld the lower court decisions and nullified the law, ruling that video games were protected speech under the First Amendment as other forms of media.\n\nThe ruling was seen as a significant victory for the video game industry. Several of the Court's justices suggested that the issue might need to be re-examined in the future, considering the changing nature of video games and their continuously improving technology.\n\nMany video games, as early as 1976's \"Death Race\", incorporate some aspect of violence into the gameplay mechanic, such as killing an enemy with a weapon, using explosives to destroy a structure, or engaging in dangerous vehicle races. With modern technology, representations of such violence have become more realistic. This has led to concerns that minors who play such video games will be influenced by the violence, altering their real-life behavior. Academic studies have attempted to find a connection between violent video games and the rate of violence and crimes from those that play them; some have stated a connection exists, while others find no link between the matters. Incidents such as the Columbine High School massacre in 1999 have heightened concerns of a potential connection between video games and violent actions. Accordingly, many concerned groups including politicians and parents have sought to enact regulatory controls of video games to prevent their sales to youth. Prior and during the \"Brown v.\" case, parties like the Entertainment Software Association (ESA) sought to overturn similar state laws that placed limits on the sales of violent video games to minors in Michigan and Illinois. The ESA won these cases, with the laws being found unconstitutional and overly restrictive of protected speech. These states did not further challenge the court rulings. The ESA similarly defeated a Louisiana bill in the 2006 \"Entertainment Software Association v. Foti\" case that would have attempted to ban sales of violent video games from minors.\nTo counteract these increasing complaints and attempts at legislation, the video game industry in the United States created the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) in 1994. This was prompted by a 1993 congressional hearing over the violence in the video game \"Mortal Kombat\" and lack of consistent content ratings between publishers, with Congress threatening to pass legislation that would mandate a ratings system if the industry did not take its own steps. The industry reacted by forming the Interactive Digital Software Association, which would become the ESA, and establishing the ESRB. The ESRB, like the Motion Picture Association of America's rating system, is a voluntary and self-regulated body that examines the content of video games as provided by the publisher before distribution, and given a rating describing the content within, generally classified from being all ages-appropriate to adult audiences only. Video game distributors are similarly bound by voluntary compliance to check the age of the purchaser against the rating of the game to prevent the sale of mature titles to younger players. Most stores prevent the sale of unrated games, so virtually every video game sold at retail in the United States is rated by the ESRB. Attempts have been made to mandate the ratings system; the Family Entertainment Protection Act, a 2005 bill introduced into the U.S. Congress by Senators Hillary Clinton, Joseph Lieberman, and Evan Bayh, would have made ESRB participation mandatory with oversight by the Federal Trade Commission, and introduced fines for selling Mature or Adult-Only content to minors. The bill, however, did not clear the Senate. Though the ESRB met criticism in 2000–2005 for the ease of access of mature-rated games to minors, the Board has improved its efforts to enforce the ratings system at retailers. A 2011 report issued by the Federal Trade Commission found that the voluntary controls by the ESRB had the highest success rate of any media industry, preventing sales of mature titles to minors 87% of the time. Similar content rating systems exist in other countries, including the British Board of Film Classification, the Australian Classification Board, and Japan's Computer Entertainment Rating Organization.\n\nIn 2005, the California State Legislature passed AB 1179, sponsored by then-California State Senator Leland Yee, which banned the sale of violent video games to anyone under age 18 and required clear labeling beyond the existing ESRB rating system. The law would have a maximum $1000 fine for each infraction. The definition of \"violent video game\" used a variation of the Miller test, a three-pronged test used previously by the United States Supreme Court to define when obscene speech is not protected under the First Amendment. The bill was signed into law by Gov. Schwarzenegger in October 2005. The law would have gone into effect in January 2006.\n\nThe law was a second attempt by Senator Yee to enact restrictions for video game sales to minors. Yee's background as a child psychologist led him to assert there was a connection between video games and violence and believed that the government had strong interest in restricting video game sales to minors as was already done for pornographic works. In 2004, Yee had drafted a law that would have required mature-rated video games to be stocked separately from other titles. Though the bill ultimately passed as CA Law AB 1793, the bill's language was diluted at its passage, only requiring stores to display the ESRB ratings system and provide information to parents about it.\n\nBefore the California bill was signed into law, the ESA and the Video Software Dealers Association (VSDA), now known as the Entertainment Merchants Association (EMA), were preparing a lawsuit to overturn the law, fearing that the \"violent video game\" definition would affect many titles that the ESRB has otherwise labeled appropriate for younger players, and threaten to harm the video game industry. The VSDA filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and was later joined by the ESA. The two groups succeeded in obtaining a preliminary injunction in December 2005 to block enforcement of the law during the case; U.S. District Judge Ronald M. Whyte cited in his preliminary decision: \"The plaintiffs have shown at least that serious questions are raised concerning the States' ability to restrict minors' First Amendment rights in connection with exposure to violent video games, including the question of whether there is a causal connection between access to such games and psychological or other harm to children.\" In August 2007, Whyte ultimately ruled for the plaintiffs, holding that the law violated the First Amendment, and that there was an insufficient showing of proof that either video games differed from other media or that there was established causality between violent video games and violent behavior.\n\n California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger appealed the ruling in September 2007, stating that he would \"vigorously defend this law\" and that he and the people of California have \"a responsibility to our kids and our communities to protect against the effects of games that depict ultra-violent actions.\" The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed Whyte's decision in 2009.\n\nThe Ninth Circuit considered the constitutionality of the law; given the timeframe of the law's passing relative to litigation, it was referred to as the \"Act\" in the court's opinion. The Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Court's Summary Judgment for the VSDA by holding:\n\nThe court first addressed the VSDA's argument that the entire Act should be invalidated based on the defendant's concession on appeal that the definition of \"violent video game\" in the Act is unconstitutionally broad. However, the statute had a severability clause so the court went through the severability test set forth in \"Hotel Employees & Rest. Employees Int'l Union v. Davis\". The court held that the definition for \"violent video game\" is grammatically and functionally separable because, as an alternative definition of \"violent video game,\" it can be removed from the Act without affecting the wording or function of the Act's other provisions. Further, the definitions are volitionally separable because those sections were not of critical importance to the passage of the Act and the legislative body would have adopted the Act had it foreseen the partial invalidation of the statute. These definition sections were only included to avoid the possibility that a court would rule the terms unconstitutionally vague; the court found that the legislature would still have enacted the statute without this definition section.\n\nThe court next went on to determine what level of scrutiny should be applied in reviewing the Act's prohibitions. The defendants insisted that the \"variable obscenity\" standard from \"Ginsberg v. New York\" should be used. However, the court held that the \"variable obscenity\" standard does not apply to violence. The Court in \"Ginsberg\" was careful to place substantive limits on its holding, and concern in \"Ginsberg\" regarded only \"sex material,\" not violence. The court declined to extend the application of the \"variable obscenity\" standard to violence, so strict scrutiny was applied instead.\n\nIn applying the strict scrutiny standard, the court recognized that \"content-based regulations are presumptively invalid,\" and to survive invalidation, the Act had to fulfill two qualifications:\n\nThe court invalidated the statute on both accounts. First, the court said that in considering its decision, the court limited the purpose of the Act to the actual harm to the brain of a child playing a violent video game. As a result, the state was required to show that \"the recited harms are real, not merely conjectural, and that the regulation will in fact alleviate these harms in a direct and material way.\" Here, the defendants failed to do so because all of the reports they relied on in making these claims were admittedly flawed. While the state is allowed to protect minors from actual psychological or neurological harm, it is not permitted to control minors' thoughts. Second, the court held that the defendants did not demonstrate the absence of less restrictive alternative means. In fact, video games already comply with a voluntary rating system that rates video games based on their topics and age appropriateness. This is a clear example of a less restrictive means. The court noted that the least restrictive means is not the same as the most effective means.\n\nThe court also evaluated the constitutionality of the Act's labeling provision, which requires that a label be affixed to the front of every package the state deems to be a \"violent video game.\" Generally, \"freedom of speech prohibits the government from telling people what they must say.\" However, the court has upheld compelled commercial speech where it is the inclusion of \"purely factual and uncontroversial information\" in advertising. However, the labeling requirement of \"violent video game\" is not factual information. The Act has not clearly and legally provided a way to determine if a video game is violent so the sticker does not convey factual information. Consequently, the court found that the Act is unconstitutional.\n\nGov. Schwarzenegger again appealed to the Supreme Court, looking to overturn the Ninth Circuit's ruling, filing a writ of \"certiorari\" to the Court in May 2009. The Supreme Court agreed to hear the case, at this point filed as \"Schwarzenegger v. Entertainment Merchants Ass'n.\" The fact that the Court accepted this case was considered surprising, based on the previous case record for such violent video game laws that were unanimously overturned in other states. Analysts believe that because the Court agreed to hear this case, there are unanswered questions between the protection of free speech from the First Amendment, and the legal enforcement of protecting minors from unprotected free speech such as through restrictions on the sales of pornography to minors. Just a week prior to the acceptance of the \"certiorari\", in \"United States v. Stevens\" the Court overturned another law that sought restrictions on depictions of animal cruelty, which some analysts felt would reflect the Court's position to likely overturn the violent video game law.\n\nThe Entertainment Consumers Association (ECA) launched an online petition along with their amicus brief to provide the Supreme Court additional information. The Progress & Freedom Foundation and the Electronic Frontier Foundation together submitted an \"amicus\" brief citing social research that declared \"Super Mario Bros.\" to be a violent video game. It was compared to Mighty Mouse and Road Runner, cartoons that depict a similar form of violence with little negative reaction from the public. Video game developers Microsoft and Activision Blizzard supported the ESA effort. Industry associations for musical works, movies, and publishing, including the National Association of Broadcasters, the Motion Picture Association of America, Recording Industry Association of America, National Cable & Telecommunications Association, and the Future of Music Coalition, also submitted briefs to the court in favor of striking down the law, fearing that should the law found to be constitutional, their industries would also be affected. Associations for the protection of civil rights, including the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Coalition Against Censorship, and the National Youth Rights Association, submitted \"amicus\" briefs. Also filing amicus briefs against the State of California was a coalition of other states including Rhode Island, Arkansas, Georgia, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Utah and Washington, as well as Puerto Rico, which stated the law was unnecessary as no evidence linked video games to youth violence and the voluntary ESRB system was working well. Also submitting an amicus brief opposing the law was a coalition of 82 psychologists, criminologists, medical scientists and media researchers concerned that the State of California had misrepresented the science on video games.\n\nThe State of California was joined by eleven other States, including those that had passed laws later declared unconstitutional; the States, in an \"amicus\" brief, stated that they are \"vitally interested in protecting the welfare of children and in helping parents raise them\" but the District Court's decision restricts their authority to do so. Further supporting the State of California were the American Academy of Pediatrics, the California Psychological Association, Common Sense Media, and the Eagle Forum.\n\nOral arguments were held on November 2, 2010. To California's attorney, the Justices voiced concern on the distinction between video games and other commercial works such as films and comic books. Justice Antonin Scalia wondered if the law with its vague definition of \"violence\" could also be applied to Grimm's Fairy Tales. To the ESA and other trade groups, the Justices suggested that California and other states do have precedence to protect minors from certain forms of violence, though under narrower terms than the California law. Justice John Roberts argued that while companies can provide parental filters on such violent games, \"any 13-year-old can bypass [them] in about five minutes.\" Several questions centered on the controversial game \"Postal 2\", where the player can urinate on non-player characters and set them ablaze, among other violent acts. The Justices, in general, agreed that upholding California's law would require a \"novel extension of First Amendment principles to expressions concerning violence.\"\n\nWith Jerry Brown winning the 2010 California Governor election, the case was renamed to \"Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Ass'n\" after the oral hearings.\n\nOn June 27, 2011, the Supreme Court issued a 7–2 opinion striking down the California law as unconstitutional on the basis of the First and Fourteenth Amendments. The majority opinion was authored by Justice Antonin Scalia and joined by Justices Ginsburg, Kennedy, Sotomayor, and Kagan. It first held that \"video games qualify for First Amendment protection\": \n\nJustice Scalia then affirmed that, while states may pass laws to block obscene material from minors as previously decided in the 1968 \"Ginsberg v. New York\" case, \"speech about violence is not obscene,\" and California's statute was unlawful. The decision pointed to fairy tales like those of the Brothers Grimm, which are regularly given to children to read, \"contain no shortage of gore\" that are also present in video games. The decision further compared video games to classical works like \"The Divine Comedy\", stating that \"Even if we can see in them nothing of any possible value to society..., they are as much entitled to the protection of free speech as the best of literature.\" Scalia's decision also stated that the current self-moderated industry standards like the ESRB are operated effectively to regulate the sale of more mature games to minors, and that \"filling the remaining modest gap in concerned-parents' control can hardly be a compelling state interest\" requiring a law to enforce. The Court's decision also determined that from the evidence, there was no \"compelling\" link between violent video games and its effects on children. The decision cited one medical report that asserted that cartoons like \"Looney Tunes\" generate the same effects in children as in games like \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" or imagery of guns.\n\nJustice Samuel Alito wrote a separate concurrence supporting the majority decision, and was joined by Chief Justice John Roberts. Though Alito agreed with the constitutional application to the California law, believing that its \"threshold requirement\" that guides what material would be covered by the law was too broad, he questioned the potential double standard that existed between violence and sexual content in regards to this threshold. Alito wrote that he was unsure that there was no connection between violent video games and effects on children, stating that \"There are reasons to suspect that the experience of playing violent video games just might be very different from reading a book, listening to the radio, or watching a movie or a television show,\" referencing the book \" Infinite Reality \" which highlights the psychological effects of virtual reality, and argued that the decision \"would not squelch legislative efforts to deal with what is perceived by some to be a significant and developing social problem.\"\n\nJustices Clarence Thomas and Stephen Breyer dissented, each authoring a separate dissent. Justice Thomas, in his dissent, considered that historically, the Founding Fathers \"believed parents to have complete authority over their minor children and expected parents to direct the development of those children,\" and that the intent of the First Amendment \"does not include a right to speak to minors (or a right of minors to access speech) without going through the minors' parents or guardians.\"\n\nBreyer wrote separately, concerned that the majority's decision conflicts with previous rulings from \"Ginsberg\" and \"Miller\". He contrasted the previous findings regulating sales of publications containing nudity to those of violent video games: \"But what sense does it make to forbid selling to a 13-year-old boy a magazine with an image of a nude woman, while protecting a sale to that 13 year-old of an interactive video game in which he actively, but virtually, binds and gags the woman, then tortures and kills her?\" Breyer further argued that \"This case is ultimately less about censorship than it is about education,\" believing that the Government has a vested interest in allowing parents to make decisions for their child as to \"raise future generations committed cooperatively to making our system of government work,\" and that \"California's law imposes no more than a modest restriction on expression.\" Breyer also expressed concern that the self-regulation of the industry still allowed for 20% of minors to purchase mature video games on a national average, and as high as 50% in the case of one nationwide chain, based on the aforementioned 2011 Federal Trade Commission study.\n\nThe ruling was praised by the video game industry, which had expected the law to be ruled unconstitutional, but sought affirmation by the Court. ESA's CEO, Michael Gallagher, responded that \"The Court declared forcefully that content-based restrictions on games are unconstitutional; and that parents, not government bureaucrats, have the right to decide what is appropriate for their children.\" Bo Anderson of the EMA stated that \"there now can be no argument whether video games are entitled to the same protection as books, movies, music, and other expressive entertainment,\" while Electronic Arts' (former) CEO John Riccitiello asserted that the decision \"affirmed the constitutional rights of game developers.\" Other entertainment industries, such as the Motion Picture Association of America, also showed support for the Court's decision. Former U.S. Senator and current head of the Association Chris Dodd recognized that the motion picture industry has seen similar attempts to limit its freedom of expression, and that \"We applaud the Supreme Court for recognizing the far-reaching First-Amendment implications posed by the California law.\"\n\nGroups that supported the California law were critical of the decision. California State Senator Leland Yee was very critical of the decision, claiming that \"It is simply wrong that the video game industry can be allowed to put their profit margins over the rights of parents and the well-being of children.\" Yee stated he would review the opinions and attempt to reintroduce a new bill within the constitutionality of the decision, and claimed it was \"disappointing the court didn't understand just how violent these games are.\" James Steyer of Common Sense Media also criticized the decision, citing that \"If parents decide a violent game is okay for their kid, that's one thing, but millions of kids are not able to judge the impact of ultra-violence on their own.\" Andy Schlafly, who had submitted a brief to the court on behalf of the Eagle Forum and Legal Defense Fund, heavily criticized the majority opinion, believing that \"the court's latest disregard of parental rights is on a crash course with technological advances.\" Tim Winter of the Parents Television Council asserted that the Court's decision \"replaces the authority of parents with the economic interests of the video game industry.\" The \"Washington Post\" opined that the California law \"did nothing to infringe on the rights of adults\" while dealing with \"reasonable limitations on minors' access to extremely violent games that even the video game industry acknowledges are inappropriate,\" and that with the high bar for any future legislation, the onus is on the video game industry to maintain its self-policing of video game sales.\n\nAnalysts believed that while this was a major victory for the video game industry, the challenge is not yet over. Dan Offner, a partner for the video game industry analysis firm Loeb & Loeb believed that similar laws and regulations will be sought by State and Federal governments, as \"the regulation of mature content with respect to minors as a hot button issue for the Federal Trade Commission and the various state governments.\" Other analysts cited that as more game content becomes available online as opposed to retail channels, the focus may shift more towards \"privacy and security\" of children and preventing children from amassing large fees from pay-to-use gaming services, pointing to a $3 million settlement that Playdom had to pay for violating privacy of its younger users. Sean Bersell of the EMA noted that future debates over violent video games may involve public opinion in addition to new legislation, noting that \"Retailers along with publishers and parents all have a role in keeping kids away from these games.\" Seth Schiesel of the \"New York Times\" proposed that the Court's decision should be a challenge to the industry to show that they can mature on the decision that video games are a form of art, questioning the industry \"Will you use it as cover to pump out schlock or will you rise to the opportunity and respectability that has been afforded you?\" Schiesel also considered that even if games with increased interactivity and reality may make the games more dangerous, this could also make the player more aware of the potential consequences of his or her actions, even when such an action is made with the purpose to gain points/level or to kill a \"dangerous enemy\" in that game.\n\nIn January 2012, the state of California agreed to pay the ESA $950,000 for reimbursing the ESA's legal fees during the Supreme Court trial, atop approximately $350,000 in fees from the previous trials at lower courts. The ESA stated that it will use an unspecified portion of this money to help create after-school programs in \"underserved\" communities in the Oakland and Sacramento areas to help teach students job skills. The total cost of defending the case is estimated around $1.8 million, including the State's own legal costs.\n\nIn March 2012, Kenneth Doroshow and Paul M. Smith, the lawyers for the EMA who argued the case, were presented with the Ambassador Award by the International Game Developers Association Game Developers Choice Awards. The Ambassador Award \"honors an individual or individuals who have helped the game industry advance to a better place, either through facilitating a better game community from within, or by reaching outside the industry to be an advocate for video games\".\n\nIn a seminar given in November 2014, Justice Elena Kagan expressed her thoughts on the decision in this case, noting that for herself, she faced a difficult decision between what she felt was right – allowing parents to decide what their children should watch and play – and what the state of the law was, and in hindsight, was still not sure if they made the right decision. She noted that she along with four others on the court effectively added language to the decision that would preempt any future laws that attempted to restrict game sales.\n\nMike Gallagher, CEO of the ESA, observed in 2017 that the same moral panic that led to concerns over video games and resulting in this case were starting to appear for newer video game systems that can further blur lines between the virtual and real world, such as virtual reality, augmented reality, and mixed reality, and anticipates that there will be further tests of the applicability of First Amendment protection these new forms of media.\n\nA national telephone poll conducted in the second quarter of 2011 by Fairleigh Dickinson University's PublicMind showed that a majority of American voters (57%) agreed that states should have the \"right to regulate the sale of video games [that are violent] in order to protect minors; the same way states regulate tobacco, alcohol and pornography.\" On the other hand, 39% of voters agreed with the Court's majority that \"parents should make the decision\" about what video games they purchase for their children, and what constitutes \"too violent.\" These voters agreed with the statement \"states do not have the right to decide that some video games are too violent for [minors], any more than they have the right to decide what literature or fairy tales are too violent.\" The poll was conducted before the Court released its decision on June 27, 2011.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39849161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39849161", "title": "Burkinabé nationality law", "text": "Burkinabé nationality law\n\nBurkinabé nationality law is the body of law concerning who is a citizen of Burkina Faso. The basis of Burkinabé nationality law is \"Aatu no. An VII 0013/fP/PreS du 16 novembre 1989, portant institution et application du Code des personnes et de la famille\".\n\nBirth in Burkina Faso alone does not automatically confer Burkinabé citizenship, unless the parents are unknown, at least one parent was born in Burkina Faso, or the child would otherwise become stateless. A child born in Burkina Faso to non-citizen parents may, however, be eligible to apply for citizenship at a later date.\n\nAny child who has at least one Burkinabé citizen parent has a right to Burkinabé citizenship from birth, regardless of the place of birth or the marital status of the parents.\n\nThe spouse of a Burkinabé citizen becomes a Burkinabé citizen automatically, regardless of sex. There is no requirement to reside in Burkina Faso.\n\nA foreign national may apply for Burkinabé citizenship upon meeting the following conditions:\n\nThere is no requirement to renounce previous nationalities.\n\nBurkinabé citizens are permitted to hold dual citizenship.\n\nBurkinabé citizenship acquired by birth cannot be revoked against the citizen's will. Burkinabé citizenship acquired by naturalisation may be revoked upon a finding the it was fraudulently acquired, criminal convictions, or disloyalty to Burkina Faso. Those who have their citizenship revoked have a right to challenge the revocation in court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12601256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12601256", "title": "Cabilly patents", "text": "Cabilly patents\n\nThe Cabilly patents are two US patents issued to Genentech and City of Hope which relate to the \"fundamental technology required for the artificial synthesis of antibody molecules.\" The name refers to lead inventor Shmuel Cabilly, who was awarded the patent while working at City of Hope in the 1980s. There was ongoing legal controversy surrounding these patents since their original filing in 1983. In 2008, the litigation that was pending before the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California, was fully resolved and dismissed.\n\nAn interference between (the original \"Cabilly patent\") co-issued to Genentech and City of Hope and (the \"Boss\" patent) issued to Celltech resulted in the issuance of a second \"Cabilly patent\" to Genentech in 2001. This new patent would extend into 2018, an effective term of 29 years.\n\nA lawsuit filed by MedImmune, a licensee of the Cabilly patent, resulted in the United States Supreme Court case MedImmune, Inc. v. Genentech, Inc. which was decided in favor of MedImmune. Following the supreme court decision, the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) declared Genentech's patent invalid, but Genentech appealed that decision to the USPTO. The patent remained valid and enforceable until the process was completed. Genentech's \"Cabilly II\" patent 6,331,415 was then found, after USPTO reexamination, to be enforceable. MedImmune and Centocor have settled with Genentech (1). Currently, two other challenges are in the courts. GlaxoSmithKline and Human Genome Sciences both are challenging the patent under antitrust law (1). This is based on the settlement between Genentech and Celltech and their dispute over the original Cabilly patent 4,816,567 and the Celltech's patent 4,816,397.\n\nAn important implication of this case is the affirmation that a licensee retains the right to challenge a licensed patent. The controversy has also called attention to the amount of time the USPTO takes to resolve Interference proceedings, and has been cited in arguments for changing to a First to file patent system.\n\n1) https://web.archive.org/web/20120402104727/http://www.biolawgics.com/patent-law/the-never-ending-battle-over-genentechs-cabilly-ii-patent/ \"BioLawGics\" September 12, 2011\n"}
{"id": "18639717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18639717", "title": "Canadian privacy law", "text": "Canadian privacy law\n\nCanadian privacy law is derived from the common law, statutes of the Parliament of Canada and the various provincial legislatures, and the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\". Perhaps ironically, Canada's legal conceptualization of privacy, along with most modern legal Western conceptions of privacy, can be traced back to Warren and Brandeis’s “The Right to Privacy” published in the \"Harvard Law Review\" in 1890, Holvast states “Almost all authors on privacy start the discussion with the famous article \"The Right to Privacy\" of Samuel Warren and Louis Brandeis”. \n\nCanadian privacy law has evolved over time into what it is today. The first instance of a formal law came when, in 1977, the Canadian government introduced data protection provisions into the Canadian Human Rights Act. In 1982, the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms outlined that everyone has \"the right to life, liberty and security of the person\" and \"the right to be free from unreasonable search or seizure\", but did not directly mention the concept of privacy. In 1983, the federal \"Privacy Act\" regulated how federal government collects, uses and discloses personal information. Canadians' constitutional right to privacy was further confirmed in the 1984 Supreme Court case, \"Hunter v. Southam\". In this case, Section 8 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (1982) was found \"to protect individuals from unjustified state intrusions upon their privacy\" and the court stated such \"Charter\" rights should be interpreted broadly. Later, in a 1988 Supreme Court case, the right to privacy was established as \"an essential component of individual freedom\". The court report from \"R. v. Dyment\" states, \"From the earliest stage of \"Charter\" interpretation, this Court has made it clear that the rights it guarantees [including privacy rights] must be interpreted generously, and not in a narrow or legalistic fashion\". Throughout the late 1990s and 2000s, privacy legislation placed restrictions on the collection, use and disclosure of information by provincial and territorial governments and by companies and institutions in the private sector.\n\nThe Privacy Act, passed in 1983 by the Parliament of Canada, regulates how federal government institutions collect, use and disclose personal information. It also provides individuals with a right of access to information held about them by the federal government, and a right to request correction of any erroneous information.\n\nThe Act established the office of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, who is an Officer of Parliament. The responsibilities of the Privacy Commissioner includes supervising the application of the Act itself.\nUnder the Act, the Privacy Commissioner has powers to audit federal government institutions to ensure their compliance with the act, and is obliged to investigate complaints by individuals about breaches of the act. The Act and its equivalent legislation in most provinces are the expression of internationally accepted principles known as \"fair information practices.\" As a last resort, the Privacy Commissioner of Canada does have the \"power of embarrassment\", which can be used in the hopes that the party being embarrassed will rectify the problem under public scrutiny\n\nAlthough the office of the commissioner has no mandate to conduct extensive research and education under the current \"Privacy Act\", the Commissioner believed that he had become a leading educator in Canada on the issue of privacy.\n\nThe next major change to the Canadian privacy laws came in 1985 in the form of the \"Access to Information Act\". The main purposes of the Act were to provide citizens with the right of access to information under the control of governmental institutions. The Act limits access to personal information under specific circumstances.\n\nThe \"Freedom of Information Act\" was enacted in 1996, and expanded upon the principles of the \"Privacy Act\" and \"Access to Information Act\". It was designed to make governmental institutions more accountable to the public, and to protect individual privacy by giving the public right of access to records, as well as giving individuals right of access to and a right to request correction of personal information about themselves. It also specifies limits to the rights of access given to individuals, prevents the unauthorized collection, use or disclosure of personal information by public bodies, and redefines the role of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada.\n\nThe \"Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act\" (\"PIPEDA\") governs the topic of data privacy, and how private-sector companies can collect, use and disclose personal information. The Act also contains various provisions to facilitate the use of electronic documents. PIPEDA was passed in the late 1990s to promote consumer trust in electronic commerce, as well as was intended to assure other governments that Canadian privacy laws were strong enough to protect the personal information of citizens of other nationalities.\n\nPIPEDA includes and creates provisions of the Canadian Standards Association's Model Code for the Protection of Personal Information, developed in 1995. Like any privacy protection act, the individual must be informed of information that may be disclosed, whereby consent is given. This may be done through accepting terms, signing a document or verbal communication.\n\nIn PIPEDA, \"Personal Information\" is specified as information about an identifiable individual, that does not include the name, title or business address or telephone number of an employee of an organization.\n\nPIPEDA allows for similar provincial laws to continue to be in effect. Quebec, British Columbia and Alberta have subsequently been determined to have similar legislation, and laws governing personal health information only, in Ontario and New Brunswick, have received similar recognition. They all govern:\n\n\nThe provincial Acts that have been so recognized, and agencies responsible, are as follows:\n\nThe \"Civil Code of Quebec\" contains provisions governing privacy rights that can be enforced in the courts. In addition, the following provinces have passed similar statutes:\n\n\nAll four Acts establish a limited right of action, whereby liability will only be found if the defendant acts wilfully (not a requirement in Manitoba) and without a claim of right. Moreover, the nature and degree of the plaintiff‟s privacy entitlement is circumscribed by what is \"reasonable in the circumstances\".\n\nIn January 2012, the Ontario Court of Appeal declared that the common law in Canada recognizes a right to personal privacy, more specifically identified as a \"tort of intrusion upon seclusion\", as well as considering that appropriation of personality is already recognized as a tort in Ontario law. The ramifications of this decision are just beginning to be discussed.\n\n"}
{"id": "1299398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1299398", "title": "Clean hands", "text": "Clean hands\n\nClean hands, sometimes called the clean hands doctrine or the dirty hands doctrine, is an equitable defense in which the defendant argues that the plaintiff is not entitled to obtain an equitable remedy because the plaintiff is acting unethically or has acted in bad faith with respect to the subject of the complaint—that is, with \"unclean hands\". The defendant has the burden of proof to show the plaintiff is not acting in good faith. The doctrine is often stated as \"those seeking equity must do equity\" or \"equity must come with clean hands\". This is a matter of protocol, characterised by A. P. Herbert in \"Uncommon Law\" by his fictional Judge Mildew saying (as Herbert says, \"less elegantly\"), \"A dirty dog will not have justice by the court\".\n\nThe clean hands doctrine is used in U.S. patent law to deny equitable or legal relief to a patentee that has engaged in improper conduct, such as using the patent to extend monopoly power beyond the claims of the patent.\n\nA defendant's unclean hands can also be claimed and proven by the plaintiff to claim other equitable remedies and to prevent that defendant from asserting equitable affirmative defenses. In other words, 'unclean hands' can be used offensively by the plaintiff as well as defensively by the defendant. Historically, the doctrine of unclean hands can be traced as far back as the Fourth Lateran Council.\n\nEquitable remedies are generally remedies other than the payment of damages. This would include such remedies as obtaining an injunction, or requiring specific performance of a contract. Before the development of the courts of equity in England, such remedies were unavailable in the common law courts, which were usually under the aegis of the local ducal noble, whereas equity flowed from the circuit-riding presence of the King's Chancellor who brought along his retainers to enforce his orders (in this sense, the development of the equity courts was a political effort by the Crown to further limit the power of local nobles). Such remedies were developed in the equity courts, as the payment of damages was often not a sufficient remedy for a plaintiff in certain circumstances. For example, if a landowner polluted the land of the neighbor, the common law tort of nuisance would only allow the innocent party to recover damages. Common law had no remedy that would force the defendant to stop the pollution. Equity courts developed such a remedy, the injunction, that provided an ongoing bar to the activity that caused the damage, as well as affirmative orders called mandamus which compelled a directed party to do a certain thing (which the Chancellor could enforce while there). \n\nEquity courts realized that such extraordinary remedies were only justified in extraordinary cases, and would generally not grant such a remedy where damages were sufficient to make the plaintiff whole. For example, if a car dealership broke a contract of sale and refused to deliver a particular car, which now could only be obtained for $10,000 more than what the plaintiff was willing to pay, the courts would merely award the plaintiff $10,000 (in addition to the original amount paid, if it had already been paid). It would not force the dealer to obtain exactly the same car and sell it to the plaintiff. However, if the subject matter of the sale were unique, such as a particular work of art or real estate, the court would order specific performance and require the sale.\n\nHowever, equity courts also realized that these extraordinary remedies were subject to abuse. For example, if a doctor had signed a non-compete clause with a clinic, the non-compete clause might prevent the doctor from earning a living if he left the clinic's employment. As such, the court will generally only grant these remedies on the strictest terms. If there is any indication that the plaintiff seeking the remedy had acted in bad faith, either prior to the commencement of the litigation or afterwards, the court will generally not grant the remedy. For example, if the doctor left the clinic because it was involved in insurance fraud, a court would most likely refuse to enforce the non-compete agreement by issuing an injunction, although it might allow the clinic to recover damages if they did lose business to the doctor. Much of the various limitations, often expressed as \"maxims of equity\", arose from the sheer physical fact that the Chancellor and his enforcers would soon be moving on to another locale, and thus equity tended to be careful in allowing access to its powerful remedies and to order only that which would be quickly or effectively enforced.\n\n"}
{"id": "58284809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58284809", "title": "Copyright law of Albania", "text": "Copyright law of Albania\n\nThis article is a brief summary of Law No. 35/2016 \"On the Rights of the Author and Other Rights Related to\", approved by the Albanian Parliament on 31 March 2016. The purpose of the law is to guarantee the protection of the author's copyrights and other related rights.\n\nThe subject matter of copyrighted work shall be any original intellectual creation in the literary, artistic and scientific domain, having an individual character, irrespective of the manner and form of its expression, its type, value or purpose, unless otherwise provided for in this law.\n\nWorks of Copyright subjected to protection shall be in particular:\nThe protections of the author's rights are specifically mentioned in Article 58 of the Constitution of Albania\n\n"}
{"id": "46843619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46843619", "title": "Crimes Act 1958", "text": "Crimes Act 1958\n\nThe Crimes Act 1958 is an Act of the Parliament of Victoria.\nThe Act codified most common law crimes in the jurisdiction.\n"}
{"id": "48088413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48088413", "title": "DIY Kindle Scanner", "text": "DIY Kindle Scanner\n\nThe DIY Kindle Scanner, or Do It Yourself Kindle Scanner, is a robotic device made from Lego Mindstorms which was designed and built by Peter Purgathofer from 2012 to 2013. The robot interfaces with Purgathofer’s personal computer and a Kindle to make a copy of the Kindle e-book. This robot in effect bypasses the digital rights management system set in place to protect Kindle e-books.\n\nPeter Purgathofer is an associate professor at the Vienna University of Technology in Austria.\n\nWhen he released a video on Vimeo documenting the operation of the device, Purgathofer wrote that the project was meant to be an artistic reflection connecting the ideas of “book scanning, copyright, and digital rights management.” \n\nIn a reply to an email, Purgathofer stated that the project was not meant to be a negative reaction against Kindle e-books, but rather a way to use both Lego Mindstorms and the Kindle in a way that neither was usually intended to be used.\n\nThe robot is first set up so that it can operate the computer as well as hold the Kindle. The image capture software must already be running on the computer and the Kindle must be open to the first page of the book to be scanned into the computer. The robot then runs through a loop where it hits the spacebar to activate the camera on the computer and then uses finger-like robotic appendages to turn to the next page on the Kindle. This loop is then repeated until all pages have been scanned into the computer. Optical character recognition (OCR) software is then used to convert the scanned images into a duplicate of the original Kindle e-book in a plain text file.\n\nSeveral critics have recognized that more direct means of bypassing digital rights management are available. In this context, the DIY Kindle Scanner has been labeled as a type of Rube Goldberg machine.\n\nAdditionally, Cory Doctorow made the claim that the project was in fact a legal means of bypassing digital rights management. This claim has been supported with the argument that the DIY Kindle Scanner simply exploits the analog hole which is applicable to all digital rights management systems.\n\nIn light of the question of the legality of this project, Purgathofer has scanned only one e-book with this method and he explains that he has not shared the copy with anyone because he is worried that \"It would get me in deep trouble.\"\n\nFurthermore, Purgathofer states that this project should not be associated with his academic work. In explanation, he said, \"It’s a private project.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "235169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=235169", "title": "DNA paternity testing", "text": "DNA paternity testing\n\nDNA paternity testing is the use of DNA profiling (known as genetic fingerprinting) to determine whether two individuals are biologically parent and child. A paternity test establishes genetic proof whether a man is the biological father of an individual, and a maternity test establishes whether a woman is the biological mother of an individual. Tests can also determine the likelihood of someone being a biological grandparent to a grandchild. Though genetic testing is the most reliable standard, older methods also exist, including ABO blood group typing, analysis of various other proteins and enzymes, or using human leukocyte antigen antigens. The current techniques for paternity testing are using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP). Paternity testing can now also be performed while the woman is still pregnant from a blood draw.\n\nDNA testing is currently the most advanced and accurate technology to determine parentage. In a DNA parentage test, the result (called the 'probability of parentage) is 0% when the alleged parent is not biologically related to the child and the probability of parentage is typically 99.99% when the alleged parent is biologically related to the child. However, while almost all individuals have a single and distinct set of genes, rare individuals, known as \"chimeras\", have at least two different sets of genes, which can result in a false negative result if their reproductive tissue has a different genetic make-up from the tissue sampled for the test.\n\nThe testing is performed by collecting buccal cells found on the inside of a person's cheek using a buccal swab or cheek swab. These swabs have wooden or plastic stick handles with a cotton on synthetic tip. The collector rubs the inside of a person's cheek to collect as many buccal cells as possible. The buccal cells are then sent to a laboratory for testing. For paternity testing, samples from the alleged father and child would be needed. For maternity testing, samples from the alleged mother and child would be needed.\n\nIt is possible to determine who the biological father of the fetus is while the woman is still pregnant through procedures called chorionic villus sampling or amniocentesis. Choronic villus sampling (CVS) retrieves choronic villus (placental tissue) in either a transcervical or transabdominal manner. Amniocentesis retrieves amniotic fluid by inserting a needle through the pregnant mother's abdominal wall. These procedures are highly accurate because they are taking a sample directly from the fetus; however, there is a small risk for the woman to miscarry and lose the pregnancy as a result. Both CVS and Amnio require the pregnant woman to visit a genetic specialist known as a maternal fetal medicine specialist who will perform the procedure.\n\nCurrent advances in genetic testing have led to the ability to determine who the biological father is while the woman is still pregnant through a non-invasive method. There is a small amount of fetal DNA (cffDNA) present in the mother's blood during pregnancy. This allows for accurate fetal DNA paternity testing during pregnancy from a blood draw with no risk of miscarriage. Studies have shown that cffDNA can first be observed as early as 7 weeks gestation, and the amount of cffDNA increases as the pregnancy progresses.\n\nThe DNA of an individual is the same in every somatic (nonreproductive) cell. Sexual reproduction brings the DNA of both parents together randomly to create a unique combination of genetic material in a new cell, so the genetic material of an individual is derived from the genetic material of both their parents in equal amounts. This genetic material is known as the nuclear genome of the individual, because it is found in the nucleus.\n\nComparing the DNA sequence of an individual to that of another individual can show whether one of them was derived from the other. However, DNA paternity tests are not currently 100% accurate. Specific sequences are usually looked at to see whether they were copied verbatim from one of the individual's genome to the other. If that was the case, then the genetic material of one individual could have been derived from that of the other (i.e. one is the parent of the other). Besides the nuclear DNA in the nucleus, the mitochondria in the cells also have their own genetic material termed the mitochondrial DNA. Mitochondrial DNA comes only from the mother, without any shuffling.\n\nProving a relationship based on comparison of the mitochondrial genome is much easier than that based on the nuclear genome. However, testing the mitochondrial genome can prove only if two individuals are related by common descent through maternal lines only from a common ancestor and is, thus, of limited value (for instance, it could not be used to test for paternity).\n\nIn testing the paternity of a male child, comparison of the Y chromosome can be used, since it is passed directly from father to son.\n\nIn the US, the AABB has regulations for DNA paternity and family relationship testing; however, AABB accreditation is not necessary. DNA test results are legally admissible if the collection and the processing follows a chain of custody. Similarly in Canada, the SCC has regulations on DNA paternity and relationship testing; however, this accreditation is recommended, but not necessary.\n\nThe Paternity Testing Commission of the International Society for Forensic Genetics has taken up the task of establishing the biostatistical recommendations in accordance with the ISO/IEC 17025 standards. Bio-statistical evaluations of paternity should be based on a likelihood ratio principle - yielding the Paternity Index, PI. The recommendations provide guidance on concepts of genetic hypotheses and calculation concerns needed to produce valid PIs, as well as on specific issues related to population genetics.\n\nThe first form of any kind of parental testing was blood typing, or matching blood types between the child and alleged parent, which became available in the 1920s, after scientists recognized that blood types, which had been discovered in the early 1900s, were genetically inherited. Under this form of testing, the blood types of the child and parents are compared, and it can be determined whether there is any possibility of a parental link. For example, two O blood type parents can only produce a child with an O blood type, and two parents with a B blood type can produce a child with either a B or O blood type. This most often led to inconclusive results, as only 30% of the entire population can be excluded from being the possible parent under this form of testing. In the 1930s, a new form of blood testing, serological testing, which tests certain proteins in the blood, became available, with a 40% exclusion rate.\n\nIn the 1960s, highly accurate genetic paternity testing became a possibility when HLA typing was developed, which compares the genetic fingerprints on white blood cells between the child and alleged parent. HLA tests could be done with 80% accuracy, but could not distinguish between close relatives. Genetic parental testing technology advanced further with the isolation of the first restriction enzyme in 1970. Highly accurate DNA parental testing became available in the 1980s with the development of RFLP. In the 1990s, PCR, developed in 1983, became the standard method for DNA parental testing. A simpler, faster, and more accurate method of testing than RFLP, it has an exclusion rate of 99.99% or higher.\n\nThe DNA parentage test that follows strict chain of custody can generate legally admissible results that are used for child support, inheritance, social welfare benefits, immigration, or adoption purposes. To satisfy the chain-of-custody legal requirements, all tested parties have to be properly identified and their specimens collected by a third-party professional who is not related to any of the tested parties and has no interest in the outcome of the test.\n\nThe quantum of evidence needed is clear and convincing evidence; that is, more evidence than an ordinary case in civil litigation, but much less than beyond a reasonable doubt required to convict a defendant in a criminal case.\n\nIn recent years, immigration authorities in various countries, such as U.S., U.K., Canada, Australia, France, and others have been requesting immigration petitioners and beneficiaries in a family-based immigration case to voluntarily take the DNA parentage test when primary documents such as birth certificate to prove biological relationship are missing or inadequate.\n\nIn the U.S., immigration applicants bear the responsibility of arranging and paying for DNA testing. The U.S. immigration authorities require that the DNA test, if pursued, be performed by one of the laboratories accredited by the AABB (formerly American Association of Blood Banks). Similarly, in Canada, the lab needs to be accredited by the SCC.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State and USCIS provide information concerning the DNA parentage test request for immigration purposes.\n\nAlthough paternity tests are more common than maternity tests, there may be circumstances in which the biological mother of the child is unclear. Examples include cases of an adopted child attempting to reunify with his or her biological mother, potential hospital mix-ups, and in vitro fertilization where the laboratory may have implanted an unrelated embryo inside the mother.\n\nOther factors, such as new laws regarding reproductive technologies using donated eggs and sperm and surrogate mothers, can mean that the female giving birth is not necessarily the legal mother of the child. For example, in Canada, the federal Human Assisted Reproduction Act provides for the use of hired surrogate mothers. The legal mother of the child may, in fact, be the egg donor. Similar laws are in place in the United Kingdom and Australia.\n\nIn the United States, paternity testing is fully legal, and fathers may test their children without the consent or knowledge of the mother. Paternity testing take-home kits are readily available for purchase, though their results are not admissible in court, and are for personal knowledge only. Only a court-ordered paternity test may be used as evidence in court proceedings. If parental testing is being submitted for legal purposes in the U.S., including immigration, testing must be ordered through a lab that has AABB accreditation for Relationship DNA testing. All accredited labs are listed on the AABB's website.\n\nThe legal implications of a paternity result test vary by state and according to whether the putative parents are unmarried or married. If a paternity test does not meet forensic standards for the state in question, a court-ordered forensic test may be required for the results of the test to have legal meaning. For unmarried parents, if a parent is currently receiving child support or custody, but DNA proves that the man is not the father later on, the support automatically stops; however, in many states, this testing must be performed during a narrow window of time if a voluntary acknowledgement of parentage form has already been signed by the putative father; otherwise, the results of the test may be disregarded by law, and in many cases, a man may be required to pay child support, even though the child is biologically unrelated. In a few states, if the mother is receiving the support, then that alleged father has the right to file a lawsuit to get back any money that he lost from paying support. As of 2011, and in most states, unwed parents confronted with a voluntary acknowledgement of parentage form are informed of the possibility and right to request a DNA paternity test. If testing is refused by the mother, the father may not be required to sign the birth certificate or the voluntary acknowledgement of parentage form for the child. For wedded putative parents, the husband of the mother is presumed to be the father of the child. However, in most states, this presumption can be overturned by the application of a forensic paternity test, but in many states, the time for overturning this presumption may be limited to the first few years of the child's life, depending on the law of the state in question.\n\nPersonal paternity-testing kits are available. The Standards Council of Canada regulates paternity testing in Canada whereby laboratories are ISO 17025-approved. In Canada, only a handful of labs have this approval, and it is recommended that testing is performed in these labs. Courts also have the power to order paternity tests during divorce cases.\n\nDNA paternity testing for personal knowledge is legal, and home test kits are available by mail from representatives of AABB- and ISO 17025-certified laboratories. DNA Paternity Testing for official purposes, such as sustento (child support) and inheritance disputes, must follow the Rule on DNA Evidence A.M. No. 06-11-5-SC, which was promulgated by the Philippine Supreme Court on October 15, 2007. Tests are sometimes ordered by courts when proof of paternity is required.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there were no restrictions on paternity tests until the Human Tissue Act 2004 came into force in September 2006. Section 45 states that it is an offence to possess without appropriate consent any human bodily material with the intent of analysing its DNA. Legally declared fathers have access to paternity-testing services under the new regulations, provided the putative parental DNA being tested is their own. Tests are sometimes ordered by courts when proof of paternity is required. In the UK, the Ministry of Justice accredits bodies that can conduct this testing. The Department of Health produced a voluntary code of practice on genetic paternity testing in 2001. This document is currently under review, and responsibility for it has been transferred to the Human Tissue Authority.\n\nDNA paternity testing is solely performed on decision of a judge in case of a judiciary procedure in order either to establish or contest paternity or to obtain or deny child support. Private DNA paternity testing is illegal, including through laboratories in other countries, and is punishable by up to a year in prison and a €15,000 fine. The French Council of State has described the law's purpose as upholding the \"French regime of filiation\" and preserving \"the peace of families.\"\n\nUnder the Gene Diagnostics Act of 2009, secret paternity testing is illegal. Any paternity testing must be conducted by a licensed physician or by an expert with a university degree in science and special education in parentage testing, and the laboratory carrying out genetic testing must be accredited according to ISO/IEC 17025. Full informed consent of both parents is required, and prenatal paternity testing is prohibited, with the exception of sexual abuse and rape cases. Any genetic testing done without the other parent's consent is punishable with a €5,000 fine. Due to an amendment of the civil law section 1598a in 2005, any man who contests paternity no longer automatically severs legal rights and obligations to the child.\n\nA paternity test with any legal standing must be ordered by a family court. Though parents have access to \"peace of mind\" parental tests through overseas laboratories, family courts are under no obligation to accept them as evidence. It is also illegal to take genetic material for a parental test from a minor over 16 years of age without the minor's consent. Family courts have the power to order paternity tests against the will of the father in divorce and child support cases, as well as in other cases such as determining heirs and settling the question involving the population registry. A man seeking to prove that he is not the father of the child registered as his is entitled to a paternity test, even if the mother and natural guardian object. Paternity tests are not ordered when it is believed it could lead to the murder of the mother, and until 2007, were not ordered when there was a chance that the child could have been conceived outside of marriage, making them a \"mamzer\" under Jewish law.\n\nPeace-of-mind paternity tests are a \"big business\" in Spain, partly due to the French ban on paternity testing, with many genetic testing companies being based in Spain.\n\nPeace-of-mind parentage tests are widely available on the internet. For a parentage test (paternity or maternity) to be admissible for legal purposes, such as for changing a birth certificate, Family Law Court proceedings, visa/citizenship applications or child support claims, the process undertaken needs to comply with the Family Law Regulations 1984 (Cth) . Further, the laboratory processing the samples must be accredited by the National Association of Testing Authorities (NATA) .\n\nIn China, paternity testing is legally available to fathers who suspect their child is not theirs. Chinese law also requires a paternity test for any child born outside the one-child policy for the child to be eligible for a \"hukou\", or family registration record. Family tie formed by adoption can also only be confirmed by a paternity test. A large number of Chinese citizens seek paternity testing each year, and this has given rise to many unlicensed illegal testing centers being set up.\n\nReverse paternity determination is the ability to establish the biological father when the father of a person, or a suspect, is not available. The test uses the STR alleles in mother and her child, other children and brothers of the alleged father, and deduction of genetic constitution of the father by the basis of genetic laws to create a rough amalgamation. The advantage of this knowledge is the ability to compare the father's DNA when a direct sample of the father is not available. An episode of \"Solved\" shows this test used to see if a blood sample matches with the victim of a kidnapping.\n\n\nGenetic:\n\n"}
{"id": "9554535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9554535", "title": "Dannielynn Birkhead paternity case", "text": "Dannielynn Birkhead paternity case\n\nThe Dannielynn Hope Marshall Birkhead paternity case, a.k.a. Birkhead v. Marshall, centered on a child born September 7, 2006 to Vicky Lynn Marshall (better known as Anna Nicole Smith). The child was named Dannielynn, and was registered on her birth certificate as the daughter of Vickie Lynn Marshall (Smith) and her live-in partner Howard K. Stern. Larry Birkhead, Smith's former love interest and photographer, steadfastly maintained his contention that he was the baby's father and filed a lawsuit to challenge paternity after Smith had given birth.\n\nBesides Birkhead and Stern, bodyguard/actor Alexander Denk, Mark Hatten and Frédéric Prinz von Anhalt, among others, claimed to be the father of Smith's daughter, Dannielynn. Although Stern was listed on her birth certificate, it was not certain that he was the father. At issue in a California court was who fathered the child, who could potentially inherit millions of dollars from Smith's estate. On September 26, 2006, Stern claimed in an interview from the Bahamas with Larry King on CNN that he was the father of Smith's newborn daughter.\n\nAfter much media attention, on April 10, 2007, Michael Baird, who analyzed the results of a March 21 DNA test, announced the results that confirmed Birkhead to be the father of the baby.\n\nA little over a month after the birth, a copy of the baby's disputed second birth certificate dated October 11, 2006 was made public showing she was renamed and registered as \"Dannielynn Hope Marshall Stern\" on October 9, 2006. From September 7, 2006 to October 11, 2006 the baby was in the records as Hannibel Rose Stern. After the birth of her daughter, according to G. Ben Thompson, a former boyfriend of hers who is a real-estate developer in South Carolina, Smith wanted to put him down as the father on the birth certificate, but he refused. Thompson also was not convinced the baby was his because he had a vasectomy. Although Stern is named as the father on the earlier certificate, attorney Dion Smith Jr. signed his name where Stern's signature should have been. This discrepancy made the birth certificate invalid so that it could be possible for a new birth certificate to be asked for and a DNA test sought to determine the father's identity. In April 2007 following the official results of the paternity test, Birkhead changed his daughter's surname to his last name, renaming her \"Dannielynn Hope Marshall Birkhead\".\n\nOn February 21, 2007 hearings commenced in Broward County Circuit court in Florida over the disposition of Anna Nicole Smith's remains. Larry Birkhead petitioned the court to ask Howard K. Stern to submit to a DNA test on February 20, 2007, but at the time Howard K. Stern stated he was not willing to do so in a closed conference with Judge Larry Seidlin. The judge had put off the paternity question until after the issue of the location of Anna’s burial was decided.\n\nAt the request of Smith's mother, Virgie Arthur, a Bahamian judge issued a temporary injunction on February 13, 2007, preventing Stern from taking Smith's daughter out of The Bahamas.\n\nOn February 22, 2007 a Florida judge awarded custody of Smith's body to Miami lawyer Richard Milstein, the guardian ad litem for Dannielynn. Smith was buried in the Bahamas next to her late son Daniel Wayne Smith (1986–2006).\n\nBirkhead was a freelance celebrity photographer in Los Angeles, California. When the question came up, Birkhead denied receiving money for media interviews, though he has received royalties for archived pictures he took of Smith.\n\nAccording to Birkhead's testimony on February 21, 2007 while on the stand, he and Smith dated on and off from August 2005 to March 2006.\n\nStern was Smith's attorney who was named executor of her will which was drafted in 2001 by Eric James Lund, Esq. During the case, Stern denied that he had received money from media interviews he has conducted since Smith's death, though he admitted that he gave an interview to \"Entertainment Tonight\" on a flight that the show chartered immediately after her death. As a lawyer of Smith's in the continuing litigation over the estate of her late husband, billionaire J. Howard Marshall, he would be entitled to a contingent fee of roughly $5 million, five percent of any money she was awarded.\n\nHe has claimed to be the biological father of baby \"Dannielynn Hope Marshall Stern\". Following the death of the baby's half-brother Daniel Wayne Smith, Smith put his name on the disputed second birth certificate issued for the baby then known as \"Hanna Rose\". Stern's sister, Bonnie, says Smith told her months before the birth that Birkhead could be the father. \"When I spoke to (Smith) in March, when she found out she was pregnant, I took her shopping, and she told me the baby was due in mid-October, and that one other person could have been the father and that was Larry Birkhead, but nobody else.\"\n\nFrédéric Prinz von Anhalt, the husband of Zsa Zsa Gabor at the time, claimed that he had Smith as a mistress for 10 years. He was quoted as saying that he could potentially be the father of Smith's daughter and said he would file a lawsuit if Dannielynn was turned over to Stern or Birkhead by the courts. According to the Associated Press, on February 12, 2007 Prinz von Anhalt announced that he would file a paternity claim and that his marriage likely would be over if his claims of parentage prevailed. On February 15, 2007, he filed legal documents at a courthouse in Santa Monica, California seeking a DNA test to determine if he was the father of the baby.\n\nOn February 20, 2007, he took a lie detector test in his attorney's office in Los Angeles. Prinz von Anhalt passed three lie detector tests that week, according to his attorney. The tests included questions about whether he had an affair with Smith and whether he could possibly be the child's father. On March 23, 2007, he submitted a DNA sample to a Los Angeles clinic even though he was not involved in the paternity suit between Stern and Birkhead. He did not have a sample of the baby's DNA to analyze against, nor did he have a court order to submit to testing, but had stated that he wanted to be prepared if his paternity case had continued. On April 10, 2007 after the paternity test results were made public, representatives of Prinz von Anhalt released this statement wishing Birkhead well with raising the baby: \"We never intended to take Dannielynn from anyone, we were just here in case Prinz von Anhalt was the father. We wish Larry luck in raising Dannielynn and we wish him the best.\"\n\nDenk is an Austrian-American film actor and was the personal bodyguard of Anna Nicole Smith until her death on February 8, 2007.\n\nDenk, according to his attorney in a joint television interview, also said that he was Smith's confidant, worked for her as her personal trainer, and also was her bodyguard and chef. Denk is also friends with Stern. In the interview with Julie Banderas, Denk said he and Smith were in a relationship and that he knew her for five and a half years. He added that they were intimate on and off for five years.\n\nHe reportedly told the entertainment news show \"Extra\" that he had an affair with his former employer and that it was possible he could be the baby's father. On the show he claimed he and Smith had a passionate love affair that lasted for two years and that Smith suffered from life-threatening seizures, for which she was on medication. When asked if Smith ever revealed to him the identity of her daughter's father, Denk responded, \"She always told me she wanted to have her kids with me.\" Denk was not certain he was the baby's father and told Banderas that Smith \"always told me I want you to be there and care for Dannielynn no matter what, no matter who is the father, because I took care of Anna with her health and everything, and she wanted to make sure her baby is healthy. And also this thing about the dieting and stuff, she doesn't want her baby to be overweight and obese. She wants to make sure she is healthy.\"\n\nJ. Howard Marshall II, also deceased, was Smith's second husband. In February 2007, the \"New York Daily News\" claimed to have seen an unpublished manuscript by Donna Hogan, Smith's younger half-sister, saying that Smith had become pregnant by Marshall: \"To her family, she hinted that she had used the old man's frozen sperm, and would be giving birth to Marshall's child\". However, the publisher of Hogan's book, \"Train Wreck\", described the newspaper's claims as a hoax.\n\nOn April 10, 2007, Dr. Michael Baird, who analyzed the results of a March 21 DNA test, announced the results outside the Bahamian courthouse that Birkhead is confirmed at 99.99% to be the father of the baby.\nAlthough DNA tests revealed Birkhead is the father, final custody of the baby remains unresolved. \"I hate to be the one to say this but...I told you so,\" Birkhead told reporters and tourists waiting outside the courthouse in Nassau after a judge ruled behind closed doors that he was the biological father of Dannielynn Hope Marshall Stern, who was born on the island September 7. Larry Birkhead announced that he was the father of Dannielynn, Anna Nicole Smith's baby. Stern says he will not contest Birkhead for sole custody and wants a smooth transition for the baby.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "295975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295975", "title": "Default rule", "text": "Default rule\n\nIn legal theory, a default rule is a rule of law that can be overridden by a contract, trust, will, or other legally effective agreement. Contract law, for example, can be divided into two kinds of rules: \"default rules\" and \"mandatory rules.\" Whereas the \"default rules\" can be modified by agreement of the parties, \"mandatory rules\" will be enforced, even if the parties to a contract attempt to override or modify them. One of the most important debates in contract theory concerns the proper role or purpose of default rules.\n\nThe idea of a default rule in contract law is sometimes connected to the notion of a complete contract. In contract theory, a complete contract fully specifies the rights and duties of the parties to the contract for all possible future states of the world. An incomplete contract, therefore, contains gaps. Most contract theorists find that default rules fill in the gaps in what would otherwise be incomplete contracts. This is often stated pragmatically as whether a court will imply terms so as to save a contract from uncertainty.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12082462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12082462", "title": "Destination Tables", "text": "Destination Tables\n\nDestination Tables are published periodically by \"Halsbury's Statutes\" and are a guide to the consolidation of legislation passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom since 1957. The volume contains details of every consolidation Act relating to England and Wales passed since 1983 as well as details of earlier important consolidations.\n\nRecent years have seen the enactment of a series of Tax Law Rewrite Acts, which are not consolidation Acts in the strict sense but share many similar features. Examples of such Acts are the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, the Income Tax (Trading and Other Income) Act 2005, the Income Tax Act 2007, and the Corporation Tax Act 2009. The stated aim of these Acts is to “re-write the United Kingdom’s primary direct tax legislation to make it clearer and easier to use, without changing the law”, which in effect means consolidating various pieces existing tax legislation, sometimes with minor changes. To aid users of these Acts, official destination tables are published showing how the previous law has been rewritten in the new legislation and these tables are included in this volume.\n\nIn exceptional circumstances a government department will publish a destination table for an Act which is neither a consolidation Act nor a re-write Act. An example is the Companies Act 2006, which in effect re-wrote much of the Companies Act 1985 although it was not explicitly a re-write Act. Given the significance of this piece of legislation, the destination table for the 2006 Act has been included in this volume.\n\nThe current volume is made up of two parts. Destination tables for individual consolidation/re-write Acts (which previously formed the bulk of the work) may be found in Part 2. These tables are for use where the consolidating enactment is known and the user wishes to see the previous legislation which made up the later enactment.\nPart 1 of the work contains a series of tables which form a consolidated table of destinations made up of all the individual consolidations contained in Part 2. These tables allow users to trace the destination of an enactment where only that repealed enactment is known.\n\nEach destination table shows (in two or three columns according to the information available) the enactments repealed or revoked by the consolidation Act (or group of consolidation Acts) concerned and the provisions of the consolidating/re-write Act or Acts replacing those enactments. The tables also cover enactments which are not repealed or revoked (being required for other purposes) but, as happens frequently, are partly or wholly reproduced in a consolidation Act in order to effect a proper consolidation.\n\nIn a typical table, the enactments listed are divided into sections, subsections, paragraphs and sub-paragraphs to the extent that it is necessary to provide a sufficient and exact account of the destinations of the repealed provisions. In older tables, where a repealed section which was divided into subsections is replaced without rearrangement by a single section similarly divided, the relevant entries are simplified accordingly, and where consecutive subsections in one column correspond exactly to consecutive subsections in the other column they are grouped together whether the subsection numbering is the same or not. More recent tables have not been so simplified and reproduced at the level of detail shown in the official tables.\n\nGlanville Williams said that the \"Destination Table\" was a \"useful feature\" of Halsbury.\n\n"}
{"id": "18659869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18659869", "title": "European Public Law Center", "text": "European Public Law Center\n\nEuropean Public Law Center (EPLC) was a non-profit institution of international character, founded on 16 November 1995 in Athens, Greece. The aim of the institute was to promote rule of law and democracy across the whole European Union and other countries. EPLC was initially located in downtown Athens, and later relocated its headquarters to Legrena, near Sounio, Attica.\n\nEPLC was conceived by the European Group of Public Law and came into effect by a law of the Hellenic Parliament (law 2358/16.11.1995).\n\nSpyridon Flogaitis was the director of EPLC from its foundation.\n\nForeign governments and universities had a right to be represented in EPLC's Board of Directors, and as of 2008 a dozen of governments were represented, together with 33 universities.\n\nEvripidis Stilianidis worked as a researcher for EPLC from 1997 until 2000.\n\nThe European Public Law Organization (EPLO) was established in 2007 to continue the work of EPLC.\n\nEPLC formerly managed the Academy of European Public Law, an educational programme of European Public Law Organization (EPLO). Its working languages are English and French.\n"}
{"id": "29592820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29592820", "title": "Extended collective licensing", "text": "Extended collective licensing\n\nExtended collective licensing (ECL) are collective copyright and related rights laws and licensing agreements. ECL agreements by law apply to all rights holders in a class, whether they are members of the collecting society or not, and establish terms of licenses with users or classes of users. The first ECL laws and agreements were established in the Nordic countries in the 1960s for television and radio broadcasting.\n\nECL is a form of collective rights management whereby ECL laws allow for freely negotiated copyright licensing contracts for the exclusive rights granted by copyright. ECL laws are designed specifically for mass use, where negotiating directly with individual copyright holders is not possible because of their sheer volume. Under ECL laws, collecting societies negotiate ECL agreements on behalf of their members, as well as non-members because ECL laws allow collecting societies to enter into ECL agreements on behalf of all rights owners of the category of rightsholder the collecting society represents. Once the collecting society and the user, such as a TV broadcaster, have negotiated an ECL agreement, it comes into force and covers only the types of copyrighted works for uses specified in the ECL licence.\n\nThe first extended collective licensing (ECL) laws were established in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden (Nordic countries) in the 1960s. Committees in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden, with participation from Iceland, reviewed copyright laws and proposed ECL for the use of literary and music works under copyright in radio and TV broadcasting. In subsequent years ECL has been extended to other copyrighted works and areas of use, including the reuse of broadcasts through re-broadcast, on demand services and mass digitisation by libraries. \n\nAuthors, performing artists, publishers and producers are well organised in Nordic countries and collecting societies have a high membership. Collecting societies cooperate in many instances to offer joint licensing agreements. According to Daniel Gervais these are ideal conditions for collective rights management of copyright and related rights through ECL.\n\nWhile individual ECL laws and agreements in Nordic countries vary depending on type of copyrighted works and area of use, the \"Nordic model\" shares the following characteristics:\n\nThe British Government introduced extended collective licensing into UK copyright law in 2013 as part of the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act. This was in part in recognition of the fact that collecting societies had for decades been offering licences that included the work of non-members. If a collecting society is granted the right by government to operate an ECL non-members can receive individual remuneration (i.e. royalty payments) as if they were a full member of a collecting society. Unlike some Scandinavian countries, non-members are given the right to opt out from any ECLs offered. The UK has introduced a general and flexible right for collecting societies to operate extended collective licences for many different purposes, as long as they can prove to government they are sufficiently representative of the sector they operate in. This contrasts to Swedish and Czech law where there is only a list of specific uses to which licensing of this sort can be put.\n\nExtended collective licensing in the Czech Republic covers uses as wide as making available copyright works by libraries through to radio and television broadcasts.\n\nParagraph 18 of the InfoSoc Directive preamble states that “This Directive is without prejudice to the agreements in the Member States concerning the management of rights such as extended collective licensing”.\n\nThe principle of collecting societies representing non-members can also be found in the Satellite and Cable Directive. The directive provides that authorisation regarding non-members is to be dealt with collectively. Article 3.2 of the directive outlines the following criteria for collective management of rights, which is allowed under the directive. It states that: \n\n\"A Member State may provide that a collective agreement between a collecting society and a broadcasting organization concerning a given category of works may be extended to rightholders of the same category who are not represented by the collecting society, provided that:\nThere are many examples of ECLs in operation, including\n\n"}
{"id": "1269993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1269993", "title": "German Evangelical Church", "text": "German Evangelical Church\n\nThe German Evangelical Church () was a successor to the German Evangelical Church Confederation from 1933 until 1945.\n\nThe German Christians, an antisemitic and racist pressure group and \"Kirchenpartei\", gained enough power on boards of the member churches to be able to install Ludwig Müller to the office of \"Reichsbischof\" in the 1933 church elections. The German Evangelical Church Confederation was subsequently renamed the German Evangelical Church. In 1934, the German Evangelical Church suffered controversies and internal struggles which left member churches either detached or reorganised into German Christians-led dioceses of what was to become a single, unified Reich Church compatible with Nazi ideology for all of Nazi Germany. \n\nIn 1935, in wake of controversies and church struggles, the Ministry for Church Affairs removed Ludwig Müller and installed a committee headed by Wilhelm Zoellner to lead the confederation. As a result, the German Evangelical Church regained partial support as some of member churches that left rejoined. In 1936, the Zoellner committee denounced German Christians and increasingly leaned towards the Confessing Church and its positions. In 1937, the Nazis removed the Zoellner committee and reinstalled German Christians into the leading position. In 1937-1945, the German Evangelical Church was controlled by German Christians and the Ministry. It was no longer considered a subject to the \"Kirchenkampf\" (struggle of the churches) to Adolf Hitler. It officially disbanded in 1945. It was succeeded by the Evangelical Church in Germany in 1948.\n\nIt is also known in English as the Protestant Reich Church () and colloquially as the Reich Church ().\n\nIn 1933, the German Christians took leadership in some member churches of the German Evangelical Church Confederation. A new designation was voted on and adopted, with the organisation now being called the German Evangelical Church. In its early stages, it remained a loose confederation of churches just like its predecessor. It included a vast majority of Protestants in what was now Nazi Germany, excluding those affiliated with the free churches like the Evangelical Lutheran Free Church. In a 1933 voting to the \"Reichssynode\", the German Christians were able to elect Ludwig Müller, a pro-Nazi pastor, to the office of \"Reichsbischof\" (\"Reich Bishop\").. On December 20, 1933, Müller merged the church's Protestant Youth organisations into the Hitler Jugend without consulting their leadership or any member churches. Many in the German Evangelical Church resisted this idea and a discussion began. \n\nMüller tried to silence it by introducing discipline and using powers of the elected office. His attempts failed, prompting Adolf Hitler to meet with Protestant leaders on January 25, 1934. Although the meeting ended with Protestant churches declaring their loyalty to the state, removing Müller was not a subject to discussion for Hitler. After that, member churches began to either reorganise or detach from the German Evangelical Church. Initially, there was little resistance to the attempt to introduce elements of Nazi ideology into church doctrine. Most of the resistance came from confessing communities (\"bekennende Gemeinden\") within \"intact\" and \"destroyed churches\" (see below) and the Pfarrernotbund (Emergency Covenant of Pastors) led by pastor Martin Niemöller.\n\nIn consequence of the 1934 meeting, many member churches distanced themselves from the increasingly Nazi-controlled Reich Church due to controversies pertaining to its constitution, the nazification of its theology, leadership, incorporation of its Youth organisations into the Hitler Jugend, etc. Such churches became neutral or followed the Protestant opposition to Nazism that established an alternative umbrella organisation of their own that became known as the Confessing Church. The Reich Church ultimately ended up being a confederation of those German Protestant churches that espoused a single doctrine named Positive Christianity, which was compatible with Nazism. Although it aimed to eventually become a unified Protestant state church for all of Nazi Germany, this attempt utterly failed as the German Evangelical Church became fractured into various groups that bore an unclear legal status in relation to each other:\n\n\nMüller's influence declined after more constant clashes in the German Evangelical Church, triggering the foundation of the \"Ministry for Church Affairs\" led by Hans Kerrl on July 16, 1935. A decree issued by Kerrl in September of 1935, appointed a committee led by Wilhelm Zoellner (Church of Westphalia) to head the Reich Church instead of Müller. It was received positively by intact churches and even confessing parts of the German Evangelical Church. In 1936, the committee denounced the teachings of the German Christians-controlled Church of Thuringia, and the regime feared that the Confessing Church would gain more support due to this. In February 1937, the committee was removed by the Nazis and leading figures of the Protestant resistance like Dietrich Bonhoeffer, Martin Niemöller and others were arrested. In 1939, Müller tried to regain his position in the German Evangelical Church but failed to do so. After 1937, the German Evangelical Church was not considered an issue in the \"Kirchenkampf\" by the Nazis as it became heavily controlled by the Ministry until 1945.\n\nIn August 1945, the German Evangelical Church was officially dissolved by the council of the newly founded Protestant umbrella organisation called the Evangelical Church in Germany.\n\nUnder the Weimar Republic, the system of state churches disappeared with the German monarchies. At this point, the unification of the Protestant churches into a single organisation seemed like a possibility, albeit a remote one. Since unification, clergy and ecclesiastical administrators had discussed a merger, but one had never materialised due to strong regional self-confidence and traditions as well as the denominational fragmentation of Lutheran, Calvinist and United churches. In 1920, Swiss Protestant churches came together in the Schweizerischer Evangelischer Kirchenbund (SEK). Following their example, the then 28 territorially defined German Protestant churches founded the Deutscher Evangelischer Kirchenbund (DEK) in 1922. This was not a merger into a single church but a loose federation of independent ones.\n\nThe founding of the German Evangelical Church was the result of work by the \"Kirchenpartei\" of the German Christians who had gained a large majority at the 1933 church elections. In September 1934, the merger finally failed when the synods of two of the 28 churches, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Bavaria right of the river Rhine, the portion of Bavaria which forms today's Free State (without the Palatinate left of the Rhine), and the Evangelical State Church in Württemberg, refused to dissolve their church bodies as independent entities, and the Berlin-based \"Landgericht I\" court restored the largest church body, the by then already merged Evangelical Church of the Old-Prussian Union by its resolution in November the same year, thus resuming independence. Consequently, the German Evangelical Church, created as a merger, then continued to exist as a mere umbrella. \n\nSome Protestant functionaries and laymen opposed the unification. Many more agreed but wanted it under Protestant principles, not imposed by Nazi partisans. The Protestant opposition had organised first among pastors by way of the Emergency Covenant of Pastors and then—including laymen—developed into grassroots meetings establishing independent synods by January 1934. At the first Reich's Synod of Confession (\"erste Reichsbekenntnissynode\") held in Wuppertal-Barmen between 29–31 May 1934, it called itself the Confessing Church.\n\nOn July 16, 1935, Hanns Kerrl was appointed Reichsminister for Church Affairs, a newly created department. He started negotiations to find a compromise and dropped the extreme German Christians, trying to win moderate Confessing Christians and respected neutrals. On September 24, 1935, a new law empowered Kerrl to legislate by way of ordinances within the German Evangelical Church, circumventing any synodal autonomy.\n\nKerrl managed to gain the very respected Wilhelm Zoellner (a Lutheran, until 1931 General Superintendent of the old-Prussian ecclesiastical province of Westphalia) to form the Reich's Ecclesiastical Committee (\"Reichskirchenausschuss\", RKA) on October 3, 1935, combining the neutral and moderate groups to reconcile the disputing church parties. The official German Evangelical Church became subordinate to the new bureaucracy, and Müller lost power but still retained the now meaningless titles of German Reich's Bishop and old-Prussian State Bishop.\n\nIn November, Kerrl decreed the parallel institutions of the Confessing Church were to be dissolved, a move which was protested and ignored by Confessing Church leaders. On December 19, Kerrl issued a decree which forbade all kinds of Confessing Church activities, namely appointments of pastors, education, examinations, ordinations, ecclesiastical visitations, announcements and declarations from the pulpit, separate financial structures and convening Synods of Confession; further the decree established provincial ecclesiastical committees. Thus, the \"brethren councils\" had to go into hiding, and Kerrl successfully wedged the Confessing Church.\n\nThe Gestapo increased its suppression, undermining the readiness for compromises among the Confessing Church. Zoellner concluded that this made his reconciliatory work impossible and criticised the Gestapo activities. He resigned on February 2, 1937, paralysing the Ecclesiastical Committee which lost all recognition among the opposition. Kerrl now subjected Müller's chancery of the German Evangelical Church directly to his ministry and the national, provincial and state ecclesiastical committees were soon after dissolved.\n\nAlthough the church was initially supported by the regime, the Nazis eventually lost interest in the experiment after it failed to supplant or absorb traditional Protestant churches. After 1937, relations between the Reich Church and the Nazi government began to sour.\n\nOn November 19, 1938, as reported on in the \"Ludington Daily News\", YHWH was ordered to be erased from Protestant churches within the Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union by Friedrich Werner, the president of its executive board (Evangelical Supreme Church Council; EOK). His order said the name of the 'God of Israel' (which contemporarily has Judaic connotations) must be obliterated wherever it was displayed in Protestant churches.\n\nOn September 1, 1939, Kerrl decreed the separation of the ecclesiastical and the administrative governance within the official Evangelical Church. The German Christian Friedrich Werner, president of EOK, won over August Marahrens, State Bishop of the \"intact\" Church of Hanover, and the theologians Walther Schultz, a German Christian, and Friedrich Hymmen, vice president of the Old-Prussian Evangelical Supreme Church Council, to form an Ecclesiastical Council of Confidence (\"Geistlicher Vertrauensrat\"). This council exercised ecclesiastical leadership for the church from early 1940 and afterwards.\n\nOn December 22, 1941, the German Evangelical Church called for suited actions by all Protestant churches to withhold baptised non-Aryans from all spheres of Protestant church life. Many German Christian-dominated congregations followed suit. The Confessing Church's executive together with the conference of the state brethren councils (representing the Confessing Church adherents within the destroyed churches) issued a declaration of protest.\n\nAfter World War II, Theophil Wurm, Landesbischof of Württemberg, invited representatives of the surviving German regional Protestant church bodies to Treysa for August 31, 1945. As to co-operation between the Protestant churches in Germany, strong resentments prevailed, especially among the Lutheran church bodies of Bavaria right of the river Rhine, the Hamburgian State, Hanover, Mecklenburg, Saxony, and Thuringia, against any unification after the experiences during Nazi rule. It was decided to replace the former German Federation of Protestant Churches with the new umbrella Evangelical Church in Germany, provisionally led by the Council of the Evangelical Church in Germany, a naming borrowed from the Reich's brethren council organisation.\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1658881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1658881", "title": "Good-faith exception", "text": "Good-faith exception\n\nIn United States constitutional law, the good-faith exception (also good-faith doctrine) is a legal doctrine providing an exemption to the exclusionary rule. \n\nThe exemption allows evidence collected in violation of privacy rights as interpreted from the Fourth Amendment to be admitted at trial if police officers acting in good faith (\"bona fides\") relied upon a defective search warrant — that is, they had reason to believe their actions were legal (measured under the reasonable person test). \n\nThe rule was established in the two companion cases decided by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1984: \"United States v. Leon\" (468 U.S. 897) and \"Massachusetts v. Sheppard\" (468 U.S. 981). The exception permits the courts to consider the mental state of the police officer.\n\n"}
{"id": "32162829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32162829", "title": "Gun laws in Honduras", "text": "Gun laws in Honduras\n\nGun laws in Honduras refers to the regulation of the commerce, ownership, possession and use of firearms by the citizens and residents of Honduras. Hondurans have remained passive on the control of proliferation of firearms in the country. Escalation in crime and the use of firearms in the commission of crimes and homicides has brought political and public discourse to consider regulation of arms.\n\nUp until 1985, there was no official regulation of gun ownership and possession by private citizens although Title III, Chapter IV, Article 94 of the Honduran Constitution of 1965, replaced in 1982, stated \"No one may possess or carry weapons without the permission of the competent authority. The law shall regulate this provision;\" while the Constitution of 1957 on Title II, Chapter IV said \"The inhabitants of the republic can own and carry weapons in accordance with the law.\"\n\nThe current Constitution of Honduras, enacted in 1982, makes no direct mention of the 'right to keep and bear arms' and the role firearms should play as a constitutional right; however, Title V, Chapter X, Article 292 \"...reserve[s] as exclusive power of the Armed Forces the manufacturing, import, distribution and sale of arms, ammunition and the like.\" Other clauses in the Constitution regarding the right of citizens to life and personal safety have served as foundation to the legislation and regulation of individuals' right to possession and the use of firearms.\n\nUntil June 2007, openly carrying a firearm in public as well carrying a concealed weapon was permitted but increased attention to deaths by firearm in the country led to further restrictions on the possession of firearms. Current law still makes the purchase, ownership, and possession of firearms legal and it describes the type of firearms permitted for civilian ownership. The 2007 small arms survey shows 6 guns owned per 100 citizens in Honduras.\n\nThe legal control of the proliferation and of the illegal use of firearms is relatively new in Honduras. Prior to 1985, ownership or possession of a firearm by a private citizen was considered no more than the ownership and possession of any other piece of property. When a crime was committed using a firearm, other than regarding the weapon as evidence to the crime, its possession and use in the crime was not a crime by itself but the act committed, such as murder or robbery, was the violation to prosecute.\n\nIn May 1985, when Honduras was transiting from military rule to a democracy, the Regulations for the Possession and Carrying of Weapons, Agreement Number 1029 was passed by the Legislative Power. By the mid 1990s, the administration of police forces was no longer part of the armed forces and therefore gun regulation became a civil task. In July 2000, the Act on the Control of Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives and Other Related Material was enacted, outlining the rights and limitations of citizens regarding weapons. Since then, several reforms to the Act have been passed in an effort to limit the use of firearms in violent crimes, including homicides.\n\nHondurans and the laws of Honduras have had an individual freedom centered view on firearms. Guns are carried openly in the countryside as a demonstration of machismo and virility. Citizens of Honduras and non-citizens who are legal residents of the country may own handguns, shotguns, or rifles under the types and calibers permitted by law. Firearms may be used for the purpose of hunting, competition, target practice, home protection, work protection, personal safety and any other hobby or recreational activity permitted by law. Because of rise in crime, gun ownership in the home, business establishment and while working (such as delivery drivers, taxi drivers, and truckers) has become common. Anyone visiting a city in Honduras will immediately notice armed guards in virtually every establishment including restaurants, grocery stores, and everyday businesses. \"No Weapons Allowed\" signs can be seen in certain places reminding patrons to leave their firearms at home when conducting business with them. Besides the common frisk when entering a building, some establishments have gone as far as installing metal detectors to make sure visitors are unarmed when entering. Rise in crime has brought some politicians to think the best way to protect citizens is from entirely banning firearms from civilians. In 2009 there were 220,000 registered guns in private ownership in addition to an estimated 500,000 illegal guns. There is an active black market for firearms. Though officially banned, AK-47 rifles can purchased for about $500.\n\nCrime has been endemic in Honduras for several years. The high level of violence and killings experienced in the last 20 years led public officials to formulate laws restricting and regulating firearms in the country. In 2008, Honduras held the second highest rate of homicides per 100,000 inhabitants with 78.6 percent of these committed by firearm. As of 2012, Honduras holds the highest homicide rate in the world and San Pedro Sula holds the country's highest homicide rate with 137.5 murders per 100,000 inhabitants. Between 2005 and mid 2010, 79.38 percent of deaths were committed by firearm in the country. The UNDP estimates at least 800,000 guns in the country of which at least 650,000 are unregulated. Authorities believe some 500,000 guns considered \"weapons of war\" are in the hands of civilians and criminals. Most of the illegal guns in the country were acquired during the hostile years of the 1980s. The cost of a bullet in Honduras varies from one to eight lempiras (US$0.06 to 0.42).\n\nWhile the Constitution of Honduras make no explicit mention of citizens' right to weapons, it does include the following:\n\nThese articles has been interpreted by the State as having the power to act through legislation to regulate the manufacture, import, distribution and sale of firearms, while recognizing ownership and possession of firearms for the citizens' \"legitimate defense\".\n\nOnly citizens of Honduras and foreign citizens who are legal residents of Honduras may purchase, own, possess, or transport any handgun, shotgun, or rifle as permitted and defined under the Act on the Control of Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives and Other Related Materials. A license for every firearm must be obtained and renewed every four years.\n\nCurrent private ownership and possession of firearms is regulated under the \"Ley de Control de Armas de Fuego, Municiones, Explosivos y Otros Similares\" (Act on the Control of Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives and Other Related Material).\n\nIn regard to the right to keep and bear arms, Title I, Chapter I, Article 4 of the Act on the Control of Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives and Other Related Material states:\n\nIn regard to what type of firearms are permitted, Title II, Chapter I, Article 7 states:\n\n\nIn regard to how many firearms a citizen may own, Title III, Chapter II, Article 27 (as reformed though Decreto 69-2007) states:\n\nIn regard to where and when firearms may be carried, Article 27A was amended to the firearms control law and states:\n\nIn regard to the transport of firearms, Article 27A, third paragraph, explains that firearms can be transported on the streets, in public spaces or areas, public transportation and private vehicles when:\n\nIn regard to openly carrying firearms in public, Article 27A, fourth paragraph, states:\n\nIn regard to bringing firearms to Honduras, Article 30 makes the possession of a firearm while in transit through Honduras illegal and requires visitors and tourists who will engage in hunting and shooting sport activities to register and request temporary import permits with the Ministry of Security prior to traveling to Honduras.\n\nUnder Article 8 of Title II, Chapter I of the Act on the Control of Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives and Other Related Materials, automatic weapons of any kind are forbidden in Honduras, as well as silencers and high-precision guns, such as sniper rifles.\n\nIn response to the high level of crime and violence experienced in Honduras, in 2003, the government passed a law banning several types of military-issue \"assault\" rifles from private possession. Legislative Power Decree 101-2003 gave a 90-day grace period to surrender all weapons prohibited under Article 8, along with weapons described in the new law, without fear of criminal or civil prosecution and provided an incentive of 1,000 lempiras (US$52.92) per weapon surrendered.\n\nThis law pertains to weapons that found their way onto the black market from military channels; by definition, \"assault\" rifles are illegal in Honduras if they are capable of fully automatic fire or they fall under the make and model or caliber restricted under Article 2 of Decree 101-2003 which states:\n\nPossession of any weapon and ammunition as described above carries a sentence of eight to 10 years in prison and a fine of 5,000 to 10,000 lempiras (US$264.62-$529.24).\n\nIncreasing crime and violence and deaths by firearm has led the government to further restrict the ownership and possession of firearms by private citizens.\n\nUnder Decree Number 69-2007, signed into law on June 29, 2007, private citizens were restricted to register only up to five firearms and are no longer permitted to carry their firearms in public unless they are being transported and in the proper manner.\n\nAdditionally, firearms cannot be carried on a motorcycle unless the bearer is a law enforcement officer.\n\nIn April 2002 the National Arms Register was created under the Act on the Control of Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives and Other Related Materials and it requires all citizens and legal residents to register their firearms with the Criminal Investigation Department of the Ministry of Security.\n\n\n\"La Armeria\" (the Armory) is the only outlet authorized to import and sell firearms in Honduras. It is run by the armed forces and it has 26 branches throughout all major cities in Honduras, serving civilians and law enforcement members with their firearms and ammunition needs.\n\nThe following firearms are legal for civilian ownership:\n\nIn order to own and carry a firearm in Honduras, the following must be happen:\n\n+People are advised against purchasing used firearms without the knowledge of who is the present owner, as the new bearer may become liable upon the discovery of any crimes the weapon may have been involved in when it goes through a ballistic test prior to being lawfully registered to the person requesting a license.\n\nNo one may bring firearms into Honduras, except for diplomats or individuals participating in shooting or hunting sport events who have obtained a temporary firearm importation permit from the Honduran Ministry of Security prior to their travel to Honduras. Firearms for personal safety or for purposes other than the aforementioned must be purchased locally through \"La Armería\", the government-run firearm and ammunition supplier.\n\nDiplomats or individuals participating in shooting or hunting sport events must request a permit for the importation of firearms before attempting to travel to Honduras. Firearms that arrive without the requisite Honduran permit will be confiscated and the bearer will be prosecuted.\n\n"}
{"id": "58819051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58819051", "title": "Hobbes's moral and political philosophy", "text": "Hobbes's moral and political philosophy\n\nThomas Hobbes’s moral and political philosophy is constructed around the basic premise of social and political order, explaining how humans should live in peace under a sovereign power so as to avoid conflict within the ‘state of nature’. Hobbes’s moral philosophy and political philosophy are intertwined; his moral thought is based around ideas of human nature, which determine the interactions that make up his political philosophy.  Hobbes’s moral philosophy therefore provides justification for, and informs, the theories of sovereignty and the state of nature that underpin his political philosophy. \n\nIn utilising methods of deductive reasoning and motion science, Hobbes examines human emotion, reason and knowledge to construct his ideas of human nature (moral philosophy). This methodology critically influences his politics, determining the interactions of conflict (in the state of nature) which necessitate the creation of a politically authoritative state to ensure the maintenance of peace and cooperation. This method is used and developed in works such as \"The Elements of Law\" (1640), \"De Cive\" (1642), \"Leviathan\" (1651) and \"Behemoth\" (1681).\n\nIn developing his moral and political philosophy, Hobbes assumes the methodological approach of deductive reasoning, combining mathematics and the mechanics of science to formulate his ideas on human nature. Hobbes was critical of the assumptions of scholastic philosophers, whose evidence for human nature was based upon Aristotelian metaphysics and Cartesian observation, as opposed to reasoning and definition. Though Hobbes did not fully reject the value of observational or ‘prudential’ knowledge, he dismissed the view that this was at all scientific or philosophical in nature. To Hobbes, this type of knowledge was based on subjective and diverse experience, and was therefore only capable of producing speculative assumptions. This view predetermined Hobbes’s method of deductive reasoning, which involved the application of geometry, Galilean scientific concepts and definition. This scientific method stresses the importance of first establishing well-defined principles of human nature (moral philosophy) and ‘deducing’ aspects of political life from this. Hobbes first used the mechanics of motion to define principles of human perception, behaviour and reasoning, which were then used to draw the conclusions of his political philosophy (sovereignty, state of nature). In rejecting what he believed were ‘conjectures’ relating to intangible or supernatural objects or realities, Hobbes’s philosophy is drawn from material and physical reality and experience. Höffe explains how Hobbes applied this method to construct his political theory of sovereignty:\n\n“…the combination of mathematics and mechanics, is not sufficient on its own… the combination of mathematics and mechanics leads to the metaphor of the state as an “artificial” human being, which is comparable to a machine constructed out of natural human beings; (3) the resoluto-compositive [the recourse to absolutely first principles or elements] method defines and clarifies the nature of this construction: the artificial human being is decomposed into its smallest constituent parts and then recomposed, i.e., constructed, out of these parts\".\n\nHobbes’s moral principles thus provide the ultimate basis for his political philosophy, defining and clarifying how an “artificial” sovereign authority may come into existence.\n\nHobbes’s moral philosophy is the fundamental starting point from which his political philosophy is developed. This moral philosophy outlines a general conceptual framework on human nature which is rigorously developed in \"The Elements of Law\", \"De Cive\" and \"Leviathan\". These works examine how the laws of motion influence human perception, behaviour and action, which then determine how individuals interact. \"The Elements of Law\" provides insight into Hobbes’s moral philosophy through ideas of sensation, pleasure, passion, pain, memory and reason. This is expanded upon in \"De Cive\": “… human nature… comprising the faculties of body and mind; . . . Physical force, Experience Reason and Passion\". Hobbes believes that as sensory organs process the movements of external stimuli, a range of different mental experiences take place, which in turn dictate human behaviour. What emerged from this idea of motion was the view that humans are naturally drawn towards, or desire, things that benefit their overall wellbeing; things that are “good” for them. These are called “appetites”, and what differentiates the human ‘appetite’ from that of animals is reason. Reason, or “ratiocination”, as used by Hobbes, was not defined in the traditional sense as an innate capability tied to notions of natural law, but as an activity that involved coming to a judgement via the process of logic. Humans, as noted in \"Leviathan\", have “…knowledge of the consequences of one affirmation to another”. Individuals will desire and select whatever ‘thing’ brings them the most “good”. This process of thinking is a consequence of motion and mechanics more than a conscious exercise of choice. Ratiocination leads individuals to uncover the Laws of Nature, which Hobbes deems “the true moral philosophy”.\n\nHobbes’s understanding of human nature establishes the foundations for his political philosophy by explaining the essence of conflict (in the state of nature) and cooperation (in a commonwealth). Because human beings will always pursue what is ‘good’ for them, this philosophy asserts that individuals share overarching desires or goals, such as security and safety (especially from death). This is the point in which Hobbes’s moral and political philosophy intersect: in “our shared conception of ourselves as rational agents”. It is rational to “pursue the necessary means to our dominant shared ends”, in which case the “necessary means” is submission to a sovereign authority. By establishing morality as a force which directs individuals towards their shared desires and goals of, for example, peace and security, and the means to achieve these goals is through the creation of a state, Hobbes grounds his political philosophy in his moral thought. This approach to moral philosophy is executed by Hobbes through discussion of a range of interrelated moral concepts: “good, evil, rights, obligation, justice, contract, covenant and natural law”.\n\nHobbes’s concept of moral obligation stems from the assumption that humans have a fundamental obligation to follow the laws of nature and all obligations stem from nature. His reasoning for this is premised upon the beliefs of natural law; that the moral standards or reasoning that govern behaviour can be drawn from eternal truths regarding human nature and the world. Hobbes believes that the morals derived from natural law, however, do not permit individuals to challenge the laws of the sovereign; law of the commonwealth supersedes natural law, and obeying the laws of nature does not make you exempt from disobeying those of the government.\n\nHobbes’s concept of moral obligation thus intertwines with the concept of political obligation. This underpins much of Hobbes’s political philosophy, stating that humans have a political obligation or ‘duty’ to prevent the creation of a state of nature. Humans have a political obligation to obey a sovereign power, and once they have renounced part of their natural rights to this power (theory of sovereignty), they have a duty to uphold the ‘social contract’ they have entered into. \n\nThe main aspects of Hobbes’s political philosophy revolve around the contrasting relationship between the state of nature (a state of war) and the State itself as one of peace and cooperation. This philosophy is determined by, and implied in, his method of deduction. The trajectory of individual desire and will outlined in his moral philosophy is a decisive factor contributing to the formulation of his idea of the State.\n\nHobbes outlined four key principles of purpose in his philosophical literature:\n\n\nThese concepts are mutually reinforcing and feature across his most prominent works. For example, in \"The Elements of Law\", Hobbes claims that the benefits given to the general public under a commonwealth are “incomparable”. This overlaps with his discussion of justice in the same text, which is used in a political context. \"Leviathan\" details all four principles but focuses on the pursuit of peace, which Hobbes aligns with the first principle of welfare and public good. Where a state of peace (4) and justice (3), and the overall welfare of the general public (1), manifest under a commonwealth (stemming from ‘commonweal’: the general good of the public), a state of well-being and overall satisfaction (2) may be secured. Only under the commonwealth (as opposed to a state of nature and war) can peace, and “the notions of right and wrong, justice and injustice”, exist indefinitely. This is expanded upon again in \"The Elements of Law\", which posits that humans by nature are inclined towards conflict, and therefore need a State to institute peace and protect individuals against the threats of self-preservation which flourish in a state of nature. \"De Cive\" also builds on the relationship between these principles, where Hobbes’s claim to show individuals the “highway to peace” affirms his notion that humans should pursue peace, and therefore justice, in the form of a commonwealth. It is in the interest of humans to pursue peace, who have a fundamental obligation to follow the Laws of Nature. \n\nA sovereign power or authority figure - a Leviathan - is needed to translate these Laws of Nature in a “binding and authoritative fashion”. The notion that individuals require a “visible power to keep them in awe” - to maintain peace and safety through enforcement of law - underpins Hobbes’s theory of sovereignty, which proposes that a sovereign ruler (with authority to govern the people) is fundamental to any type of commonwealth. Therefore, the overarching concern of Hobbes’s political philosophy remains the capacity of the government to maintain peace, protection, justice and wellbeing in a manner that ensures the continuation of society and civil life.\n\n"}
{"id": "35798677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35798677", "title": "International Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Women and Children", "text": "International Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Women and Children\n\nThe International Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Women and Children is a 1921 multilateral treaty of the League of Nations that addressed the problem of international trafficking of women and children.\n\nThe growth of the social reform movement during the late 19th century gave momentum to international efforts by women's rights groups, social hygiene activists, and others, to address trafficking in women and children and its role in prostitution and labour exploitation. Previous international conventions had been ratified by 34 countries in 1901 and 1904, and 1910 as \"Convention for Suppression of White Slave Trade\". The League of Nations, formed in 1919, quickly became the organization coordinating international efforts to study and attempt to end the practice.\n\nWhen it was established, the League of Nations at first did not include women's rights groups, who protested their exclusion and canvassed politicians for support. Ultimately, United States President Woodrow Wilson and France's Prime Minister Georges Clemenceau supported the participation of women's rights groups, who they argued were best suited to give a voice to women's issues. The League held the International Conference on White Slave Traffic in 1921, and agreed on the \"1921 International Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Women and Children\" on 30 September 1921.\n\nIn 1933, it passed the \"International Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Women of Full Age\".\n\nThe 1921 Convention ensure that protection from trafficking and sexual exploitation on the international level. The Article 6 states that \"The High Contracting Parties agree, in case they have not already taken licensing and supervision of employment agencies and offices, to prescribe such regulations as are required to ensure the protection of women and children seeking employment in another country.\" and the Article 7 to \"undertake in connection with immigration and emigration adopt such administrative and legislative measures as are required to check the traffic in women and children. In particular, they undertake to make such regulations as are required for the protection of women and children travelling on emigrant ships, not only at the points of departure and arrival, but also during the journey and to arrange for the exhibition, in railway stations and imports of notices warning women and children of the traffic and indicating the places where they can obtain accommodation and assistance.\"\n\nThe 1921 Convention set new goals for international efforts to stem human trafficking, primarily by giving the anti-trafficking movement further official recognition, as well as a bureaucratic apparatus to research and fight the problem. The Advisory Committee on the Traffic of Women and Children was a permanent advisory committee of the League. Its members were nine countries, and several non-governmental organizations. An important development was the implementation of a system of annual reports of member countries. Member countries formed their own centralized offices to track and report on trafficking of women and children.\n\nThe advisory committee also worked to expand its research and intervention program beyond the United States and Europe. In 1929, a need to expand into the Near East (Asia Minor), the Middle East, and Asia were acknowledged. An international conference of central authorities in Asia was planned for 1937, but no further action was taken during the late 1930s.\n\nTo this 1921 Convention, some nations declare reservations; inter alia, Australia, British Empire, Japan, Spain and New Zealand reserve the application to the colonies, protectorate and mandated territories; India, Japan and Thailand reserve the Article 5 on limitation of age under 21 years old.\n\nThe League of Nations disbanded with World War II, and was succeeded by the United Nations. The 1921 Convention thereby was replaced by the \"1947 Protocol to amend the 1921 Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Women and Children\", legislation tabled by the United Nations Secretary General on 12 November 1947. The 1947 Protocol was ultimately ratified by 46 countries. This Protocol was superseded by the \"Convention for the Suppression of the Traffic in Persons and of the Exploitation of the Prostitution of Others\" (1949) whose Preamble recalls the 1921 Convention together with \"1910 Convention for Suppression of White Slave Traffic\", and \"1933 Convention on the Suppression of Traffic of Women of Full Age\", again tabled by the United Nations Secretary-General.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46494114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46494114", "title": "International legal personality", "text": "International legal personality\n\nInternational legal personality is an important facet of international law that has developed throughout history as a means of international representation. With the acquirement of personality comes privileges and responsibilities. Personality has been given to states, corporations, non-governmental organizations, international organizations, and individuals.\n\nRules made by states for states is the basis of international law. International law governs states and their relationships with one another. Historically it was believed that states were the only actors in international law and therefore other entities were merely the responsibility of international law.\n\nGaining international legal personality is often a goal of international actors. By gaining personality, they gain acknowledgment in the international legal community. The amount of personality that an international actor has depends entirely upon state recognition. Legal personality can determine the rights that actors have as well as their standings with courts. As personality is given by states, it stands to reason that international actors are only effective when states allow them to be. Without the approval of states, other actors have no rights nor any true ability in the international arena. One question that critics of the effectiveness of legal personality ask is if “personality contain[s] any inherent legal capacity to act?” Personality is a concept with many blurred areas but must be grasped to understand the effectiveness, or ineffectiveness, of international actors. Entities that are capable of being granted personality and thus being subjects of international law are those with the capacity to act within the international arena. Entities that are candidates for international legal personality include corporations, companies, sovereign states, international organizations, and individuals. These entities should have legal powers, the ability to effectively exercise their powers, and associations with states on a permanent basis.\n\nUntil the expansion of NGOs in the 20th century, legal personality was not given to non-state actors commonly, if ever. Once these entities became actors, they were not ordinarily given personality unless granted by the state in a legal statute or treaty. Typically international organizations, NGOs, and corporations were seen as groups of individuals and were viewed as recipients of international law, rather than actors on the international stage. However NGOs especially have increasingly begun to play important roles in international politics and policy making over the last several decades. It is not clear when NGOs truly began to play a role in international politics, but the first notice of groups influencing the international policy making occurred in 1826. In 1911, these groups began to grow and amass attention and in 1919 Dwight W. Morrow began using “NGO” as a term. By 1943 scholars of several disciplines were referring to these groups of influence as NGOs. After formal recognition by the UN, NGOs were able to truly interact in the international arena. Getting international personality has historically been an obstacle for NGOs. 1910 saw the first convention to grant legal personality, and in 1936 Charles Fenwick is quoted with saying that NGO representation “might be greatly effective in cutting across national lines.” In response to changes in world policies, the approaches taken to obtain and grant international legal personality have seen several changes. These changes have resulted in and will continue to result in variations and challenges to the sources of international legal personality and the roles that other international actors play. States were the first to gain international legal personality, followed by non-state actors (such as MNCs and NGOs) and individuals. The 1986 Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties between States and International Organizations established the definition of an international organization. The definition excluded non governmental organizations and established the concept of legal personality.\n\nRights that come with obtaining international legal personality include the right to enter into treaties, right to immunity, right to send and receive legations, and the right to bring international claims to obtain reparation for damages. Those who have international legal personality can sue and be sued, can enter into contracts, can incur debt, and pay various taxes. NGOs with personality are able to participate directly with international bodies and organizations created by legislation and treaties. They are given the ability to fund a cause rather than ask for funding for a cause. They are even given certain legal rights and protections. NGOs that are parties of a treaty can file for wrongdoings. NGOs with personality can eventually gain representative status on international councils and assemblies. Some NGOs, such as Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies have been given rights that governments usually give to IOs. NGOs are not held back by things such as political parties and reelections, they are simply allowed to lobby for what they think is the best choice. This freedom is typically found only in NGOs. This freedom gives NGOs a type of flexibility and efficiency that, once again, other international actors don’t process. More energy is bound to arise from an NGO rather than an IGO, as NGOs are voluntary commitments. The people within an NGO are dedicated to their cause and are more likely to work harder to get things done. NGOs are also able to act beyond the realm of sovereignty in a way that governments and their organizations cannot do. Once an NGO reaches consultative status, they are able to do even more. Consultative NGOs are able to receive official documents, attend meetings of various councils, be consulted by a Secretary General or committee, and participate in hearings in various ways.\n\nThere are theories to consider when deciding how international legal personality should be applied and from where the power comes.\n\nThe Legal Traditionalist Approach is one such method. In this way of thinking, one would believe that international legal personality must be explicitly transmitted from states to actors via some legal instrument. Without this transfer, an actor has no standing. In this approach, states are viewed as the ultimate international actors and the only source for personality.\n\nDirectly opposite of this approach is the Factual Realist Approach. This method of thinking outlines global integration as the source of international legal personality rather than states. Factual realists would assume that states will eventually cease to be the source of personality for NGOs as globalization and transculturation occur.\n\nThe Dynamic State Approach falls rather nicely between the two latter approaches. Basically a halfway point between Factual Realism and Legal Traditionalism, this approach finds the source of personality for actors lies within international treaties or customs. Dynamic State Approach theorists would claim that while legal traditionalists lean too much towards preserving international law through tradition, factual realists tend to disregard the customs and traditions of international law.\n\nThe Paris Peace Treaties, 1947 - Article 78 provides the basis and application of International Legal Personalities within Customary international law to each and every human being on (and off) Earth:\n\nThe application of International Legal Personalities upon all human beings is real and actionable as UN Nationals since 1947. In effect, the UN is the single global issuer of legal personalities for all Member-States. As the UN is the source, transfer of personalities between states becomes trivial. Moving a UN National called a Mexican into the United States is technically immaterial; as US Citizens are also UN Nationals equally. A US Citizen legal presence/instrument is merely a specialized UN National international legal personality. To a UN National, the border between countries is a trivial separation between UN economic zones. \n\nThe UN globalized all Member-States' personalities under one organization, a global government of governments. With all UN Member-States receiving their personalities from the UN, legally, there is only one single global government with one single global citizenship as the United Nations. \n\nThe full set of privileges (legally framed as \"rights\") for UN National International Legal Personalities is the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This is important because, for instance, various countries Constitutions do not apply to UN Nationals except through the UN UDHR even within what people believe to be their own home country.\n\nCERN's Code of Conduct is copyright by the International Monetary Fund (under the United Nations) and the CERN vehicle license plates (\"CD\") are issued under the Corps Diplomatique; This indicates that CERN also uses UN National International Legal Personalities for international recognition as well.\n\nThe former government of Costa Rica, known as the Ticono Regime, was said to have given oil concession to a British company. The new government of Costa Rica needed to acknowledge the action. The United Kingdom disagreed, as it had already been granted.\n\n\n\nThere is no need to conform to a previous constitution in such an instance. Non-recognition of the government by other governments delegitimises the status of the government.\n"}
{"id": "37598162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37598162", "title": "Ivan Yanzhul", "text": "Ivan Yanzhul\n\nIvan Ivanovich Yanzhul (Иван Иванович Янжул; 1846-1914) was a professor of financial law at Moscow University who established the Russian state factory inspection. He helped enforce the first Russian labour code (1 June 1882) which provided a measure of protection for Russian factory workers. His job involved finding an industrial enterprise, gaining access to the premises and forcing the owner to halt illegal practices such as night child labor. His political views have been described as state socialism. Yanzhul was elected into the Russian Academy of Sciences in 1895. His memoirs were published in 2 volumes in 1910 and 1911.\n\n"}
{"id": "1397372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1397372", "title": "Janata Dal (Gujarat)", "text": "Janata Dal (Gujarat)\n\nJanata Dal (Gujarat) was a political party in Gujarat, India. It was a splinter group of Janata Dal. This group was led by Chimanbhai Patel and Chhabildas Mehta. It was later dissolved and its leaders joined the Indian National Congress. JD(G) came to power in 1990 and continued until 1995. They had 70 MLA in assembly and received support of 35 congress MLA.\n\nDinesh Trivedi represented the party in the Rajya Sabha.\n"}
{"id": "8037058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8037058", "title": "Law and Business Review of the Americas", "text": "Law and Business Review of the Americas\n\nThe Law and Business Review of the Americas is an interdisciplinary law review. \n\nThe journal focuses on the legal, business, economic, political, and social dimensions of economic integration in the Americas, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA), and Mercosur. Articles in the journal deal with economic integration's implementation, evolution, expansion, and overall impact on doing business in the Western Hemisphere. Subject matter concerning regional integration efforts in other parts of the world and various other comparative topics in the international trade and investment areas are also addressed from time to time. Topics of particular concern to the journal include free trade, foreign direct investment, licensing, finance, taxation, litigation and dispute resolution and organizational aspects of integration efforts.\n\nThe journal publishes quarterly and is co-sponsored by the American Bar Association Section of International Law and Practice, Southern Methodist University's Dedman School of Law (and its Law Institute of the Americas), Cox School of Business, Department of Economics, and Department of Political Science, and the Centre for Commercial Law Studies at Queen Mary University of London. The journal is student-edited.\n"}
{"id": "18082854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18082854", "title": "Legal Writing Institute", "text": "Legal Writing Institute\n\nThe Legal Writing Institute (LWI) is an American non-profit organization \"dedicated to improving legal writing by providing a forum for discussion and scholarship about legal writing, analysis, and research.\" LWI maintains several resources for its members including a national conference held every two years, annual surveys, a database of teaching materials, and committee projects. The LWI also supports conferences in other countries and conferences in specialty topics such as rhetoric and legal storytelling.\n\nThe LWI is housed at Mercer University School of Law. Members include legal writing professors, attorneys, and judges from around the world.\n\nThe LWI was established as an offshoot of the first conference concerning Legal Writing in law schools held at the University of Puget Sound in 1984. The conference was partially funded by money left over from a National Endowment for the Humanities grant procured by Christopher Rideout, an English Professor at the University of Puget Sound. Laurel Currie Oates, who was a Professor of Legal Writing at the University of Puget Sound, helped organize this initial conference that 108 writing professionals attended. The concept of LWI reached fruition in 1985 when the Association of American Law Schools held a conference in Chicago and brought together numerous leaders in the legal writing field. The LWI was incorporated in 1986.\n"}
{"id": "1218794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218794", "title": "List of warez groups", "text": "List of warez groups\n\n3DM is a Chinese video game cracking group, \"one of the world's biggest\" according to \"Kotaku\". Their founder and leader is reported to be a woman using the pseudonym \"Bird Sister\" (simplified Chinese: 宿菲菲; pinyin: Sù Fēifēi). Unusual for piracy groups, 3DM's members have public profiles on the social network Sina Weibo, and use a blog to inform the public about their activities.\n\n3DM were one of the first groups to offer cracks for games which utilized DRM produced by Denuvo. As newer versions of Denuvo DRM became more challenging to reverse engineer, 3DM gave up trying to crack games with Denuvo DRM.\n\nIn 2016 the group claimed that piracy of games produced by large developers and publishers would be impossible in the coming years, due to the technological challenges of reverse engineering and ultimately cracking the virtualization and licensing schemes employed by new DRM solutions like Denuvo. One of the most notable groups on the web at the time, they publicly announced a year hiatus from developing cracks for games. Since returning in 2017, 3DM have only released games which use Steam licensing, only releasing copies of better protected games which include cracks made by other groups. This practice has been criticized by the groups whose cracks were included in releases under the 3DM name.\n\nACTiVATED is a warez group and is affiliated with CODEX. ACTiVATED is known for cracking games for Linux and macOS.\n\nCentropy, founded in January 1999, was a warez group which specialized in releasing copies of films, many of which were still in theatres. Touting many \"0-day\" releases and releases prior to commercial availability, Centropy released and pre-released numerous films.\n\nCrackers In Action (known as \"CIA\"), founded in 2000 by tKC.\n\nCLASS (also known as \"CLS\") was a warez group which was the target of federal raids such as Operation Fastlink. They were a global group with members worldwide, often releasing game \"rips\". The group ceased operations in 2004 after their 1,234th release.\n\nCODEX (also known as \"CDX\") – is a warez group founded at the end of January 2014. They are known for releasing copies of games which use Steam licensing and also for emulating Ubisoft's Uplay DRM protection. They were accused by the warez group SKIDROW of stealing their code to crack \"Trials Fusion,\" something CODEX denied, stating that they had written their own code for the DRM emulation. From 2016 to 2018 they have been one of the most active warez groups releasing commercial computer games. In late 2017 CODEX gained notoriety by becoming the third scene group (and fifth overall entity) to crack Denuvo DRM when they released a cracked version of \"\" on its release date. CODEX collaborated with STEAMPUNKS on at least one game which used Denuvo DRM, , which they released under the name \"CODEPUNKS\". In February 2018 CODEX began releasing cracked copies of games from the Microsoft Windows Store. On 12th June 2018 CODEX released a crack emulator for Forza Horizon 3, which later turned out to be a generic Windows Store licensing API emulator for most games using the Windows Store DRM.. In mid-2018 CODEX began releasing cracked copies of games featuring the latest versions of Denuvo DRM, including updated versions of Assassin's Creed Origins and Far Cry 5, both of which used Uplay licensing DRM and contained additional anti-modification and anti-debugging code through the use of VMProtect.\n\n\"CONSPIR4CY\" (releasing mostly as \"CPY\") is a warez group founded in 1999 in Italy. They rose in notoriety after releasing \"Rise of the Tomb Raider and\" \"Inside\" in August 2016 under the name of \"CONSPIR4CY\", though they resumed using the 'CPY' tag shortly thereafter with the release of their cracked copy of \"Doom\" in September 2016. They became the first group to create proper cracks for games protected by the third iteration Denuvo DRM software. They cracked \"\" only five days after its release, at the time the shortest amount of time taken to develop a crack for a Denuvo DRM-protected game. They also cracked \"\", only ten days after its release. In July 2017 the warez group SKIDROW criticized the methods used by CONSPIR4CY to crack games using Denuvo DRM. In early 2018, CPY released cracked copies of \"Assassin's Creed Origins\" and \"Far Cry 5\", which were compiled with the most recent version of Denuvo DRM, and had additional anti-modification and anti-debugging features through the use of VMProtect software and EasyAntiCheat. In November 2018 CPY released cracks for \"HITMAN 2\", \"Assassin's Creed Odyssey\", \"A Way Out\", \"Shadow of the Tomb Raider\", \"Pro Evolution Soccer 2019\" and \"FIFA 19\" - all of which featured the latest version of Denuvo DRM, with some using additional custom DRM or off the shelf DRM such as EACore and VMProtect.\n\nActive from 1999 to 2006, DEViANCE was one of the most prolific warez groups. Their dissolution has been described as the end of an era, and the current affiliation of ex-DEViANCE members is a reoccurring argument between groups. Describing members of a modern warez group as ex-DEViANCE became something of a joke within the warez scene.\n\nDrinkOrDie (also known as \"DoD\") members were targeted by law enforcement in raids stemming from Operation Buccaneer.\n\nEchelon was a warez group which specialized in the release and distribution of console games, such as Dreamcast ISOs.\n\nReleased \"American Pie\" on the Internet 3 months before its theatrical release. They branded their releases with a digital watermark of the letter \"Z\" which appeared in the corner of the frame. The bootleggers were associated with a web site in Argentina devoted to Quake.\n\nFAiRLiGHT (releasing cracked games as \"FLT\") is one of the oldest groups in warez scene, founded in 1987. As of 2017 the group seemingly focuses on demos and art, with their most recent release of cracked software in December 2016. FAiRLiGHT members were apprehended in raids stemming from the law enforcement Operation Fastlink.\n\nFCKDRM is a P2P group. It is unknown if this is an initiative by GOG.COM, however their movement, #FCKDRM, is the namesake of this group. They are known for cracking \"Football Manager 2019\" which was protected by Denuvo 5.2 , \"Mega Man 11\" which was protected by Denuvo 5.1, and \"Hitman 2\" before release.\n\nHoodlum mainly focused on cracking games which utilized digital rights management solutions offered by Safedisc and Securom. They were targeted as part of the Operation Site Down raids in 2005. In July 2018, HOODLUM again started releasing Mac, PC & PS4 games.\n\nThe Dream Team (also known as \"TDT\") were the first warez group on the IBM PC to introduce intros or \"crack'tros\" to their game releases. It was one of the first IBM PC groups founded 1988 in Sweden and run by Hard Core or also known as HC/TDT.\n\nThe Humble Guys (also known as \"THG\") were the first warez group to make use of NFO files to document their releases.\n\nFounded in late 2006, HATRED was very active during 2006 to 2007. ViTALiTY has claimed that HATRED were former members of DEViANCE. Some of their major releases included and Resident Evil 4. Their last release was on August 2008.\n\nHYBRID (also known as \"HBD\") was founded in 1993. HYBRID later split up when the US-members founded DYNAMIX (later PRESTIGE and PARADIGM).\n\nInternational Network of Crackers (also known as \"INC\") was one of the premier cracking/releasing warez groups for the IBM PC during the late 1980s and early 1990s. The majority of their releases during 1993 were educational games for children. By early 1994, INC had completely disappeared from the warez scene.\n\nKalisto is a console warez group established in March 1998 which specializes in the release and distribution of PlayStation and PlayStation 2 ISO images, briefly moonlighting on the Dreamcast platform in mid-to-late 2000.\n\nmaVen were a film release group from October 2005 until the summer of 2006. Releases from maVen stopped when the FBI caught Gérémi Adam, one of its key members. The 27-year-old Montreal resident has been sentenced to two and a half months in prison and was also ordered to complete 100 hours of community service. He pleaded guilty to distributing two major motion pictures: \"Invincible\" and \"How to Eat Fried Worms\" After the bust, releases ceased and another group called \"maVenssupplieR\" immediately took up the slack. In April 2010, the 28-year-old Gérémi Adam died of a drug overdose at the Pointe-aux-Trembles home he shared with his girlfriend, Cynthia Laporte.\n\nmVs (Maven Supplier) released a workprint of \"Halloween\" three days before its official release on August 27, 2007.\n\nMyth was a warez group, focused on cracking and ripping PC games. Besides ripped games, the group also released trainers and cracked updates for games.\n\nPARADOX (also known as \"PDX\") was founded in 1989, mainly cracking games for the Amiga. They went on to crack software for the Windows operating system and other consoles. They were one of the earliest groups to successfully crack Windows Vista, which was supposed to be a difficult task based on changes Microsoft had made to the activation scheme for the software.\n\nPhrozen Crew (PC), founded in 1993 by tKC, was one of the most popular groups of computer software crackers, utilizing the tagline \"We always get what we want!\".\n\nThe Pirates With Attitudes (also known as \"PWA\") were a major international warez release group from 1992 until 2000. The group was formed by two former INC members known by the pseudonyms Orion and Bar Manager. PWA members were the subjects of law enforcement raids after the passing of the No Electronic Theft or \"NET\" Act.\n\nProject X exclusively released games for the Xbox. In 2004, Project X was named as one of six groups targeted as part of Operation Fastlink by the United States Department of Justice.\n\nPROPHET is a subgroup of or otherwise affiliated in some way with RELOADED, whose cracks they re-use in releasing multi-language versions of games. They also tend to release copies containing the latest game content such as DLCs. These are often stylized as \"MULTi\". For example, \"MULTi7\" meaning the release is a copy containing 7 languages - usually some combination of English, Spanish, French, German, Russian, Polish, Czech, Dutch, Italian, Portuguese, or some other European language.\n\nRabid Neurosis (\"RNS\") was an MP3 warez release organization which was founded on June 6, 1996.\n\nSeveral verses of the rap song \"Hackers and the Crackers\" by Zearle are devoted to the group Radium. In 2004, evidence was presented that some of the system sound files included with the Microsoft Windows XP operating system, such as WMPAUD1.WAV, were authored using an unlicensed version of Sound Forge which was supplied by Radium.\n\nRazor 1911 (also known as \"RZR\" and \"RazorDOX\") was founded in 1984 in Montréal by SM founder of the decepticons BBS. in 1985 it moved to Norway The group's main focus was to crack software for Commodore 64, but they also had a major presence in the Amiga and the IBM PC warez scenes. They were subjects of raids in Operation Buccaneer and Operation Fastlink.\nThe group made a comeback in June 2006, and since then has cracked modern copy protection schemes such as Rockstar Games Social Club, Ubisoft's persistent Internet connection requiring DRM, and Battle.NET. In March 2012, Razor1911 announced that their tester and coder DYCUS, who had an active role in making trainers and testing the group's releases, had died of cancer. Since then, the group has seldom released cracked games, focusing on DRM-free titles from GOG.com, often for Linux and MacOSX.\n\nRELOADED (also known as \"RLD!\") was founded in June 2004. Their founders are believed to be ex-DEViANCE members, though their rival group HOODLUM claimed in December 2004 that none of DEViANCE's previous leaders had ever been in RELOADED. The group has cracked several modern protection schemes like SecuROM 8, Blizzard's Battle.NET, and Arxan Anti-Tamper.\n\nREVOLT gained popularity for creating solutions for cracked games to have working multiplayer features, and later for cracks of games using Denuvo DRM which were released by its founder. REVOLT was founded by a Bulgarian teenager, who used the online handle Voksi. In July 2018 the REVOLT website began redirecting to the website of the Bulgarian Ministry of the Interior. The same month, Voksi, then in his twenties, reported having been raided by Bulgarian law enforcement in response to a complaint filed by Denuvo parent company Irdeto. In comments made to media organisation TorrentFreak, Voksi alleged that \"five or six officers, including two from Bulgaria's General Directorate for Combatting Organized Crime (GDBOB) and others from a local police station\" entered his home and seized personal computing equipment.\n\nRisciso (stylized as \"RISCISO\") was an online warez group, founded in approximately 1993, dedicated to distributing newly released copyrighted software, games and movies.\n\nSKIDROW is a well-known cracking group originally formed in 1990, cracking games for the Amiga platform, and having used the motto \"Twice the Fun - Double the Trouble!\" since then. A piece of cracktro software released by SKIDROW in 1992 with the game 10 Pinball Fantasies contained a complete list of their membership at the time. The most recent incarnation of SKIDROW began releasing unauthorized copies of games in June 2007, when they announced their return to cracking software.\nThey were the first Scene group to crack the version of Ubisoft's Uplay DRM which required players to have a persistent Internet connection to Ubisoft's licensing servers, first in Assassin's Creed II and then in .\n\nThe group has released cracks for Denuvo Anti-Tamper protected games, Yesterday Origins and . It is believed the former had a bad implementation of Denuvo which made it easier to reverse engineer, mostly due to a lack of support from Denuvo for protecting games written in C# and specifically games using the Unity game engine, with this lack of support having been previously demonstrated by an anonymous independent cracker having developed a crack for Syberia 3, which also used Unity. The crack for the latter was actually determined to be a modified executable file from the game , a free game which did not incorporate Denuvo's software, released by the same developers and utilizing the same engine, which had been modified slightly to load the assets from Deus Ex: Mankind Divided. A plurality of SKIDROW's current releases are cracked versions of games that make use of Steam licensing.\n\nIn July 2017, in a statement released to commemorate their 10th consecutive year of releases since re-emerging in the PC game cracking scene, SKIDROW made cryptic remarks that the techniques used by CONSPIR4CY, STEAMPUNKS, and members of the Steam Underground warez forum to crack modern copy protections are not proper. These criticisms were themselves criticized on the web, as SKIDROW's apparent standards for a proper crack would seemingly disqualify both their most notable crack of Ubisoft's persistent online connection requiring DRM, which they emulated, and their most recent notable release of a Denuvo-protected game, which they cracked by modifying the executable from another game.\n\nWhile not precisely a group, the community centered around the Steam Underground web forum and its members have been a notable source of warez development, releases, tools, tutorials, discussions, and information pertinent to other groups since at least 2008. The forum has both Russian and English language boards, and is the home to a number of projects primarily focused on cracking, emulating, and otherwise extending the capabilities of Steam and games released on Steam. Games on other platforms may also be discussed on their own board.\n\nThe Steam Underground forums are auxiliary to the warez scene, however the formal and informal collaboration between its users arguably constitutes a warez group. Members of Steam Underground have individually and collectively cracked games featuring DRM schemes such as the version of Ubisoft's Uplay which required players to maintain a persistent Internet connection to their licensing servers, Steam Custom Executable Generation, Arxan Anti-Tamper, Denuvo Anti-Tamper, and more - both generic digital distribution licensing schemes as well as custom protection, such as the copy protection triggers implemented by game developer Croteam in The Talos Principle. Tools and techniques released on the forums have been used to make multiplayer game modes accessible in cracked copies of games, usually enabling pirates to play with other pirates. The cracker known as Baldman released the vast majority of his cracks for Denuvo-protected games on Steam Underground. A Bulgarian hacker known as Voksi used the Steam Underground forums as a point of distribution for cracks of games with advanced virtual machines, such as Denuvo. In early 2018, Voksi, in collaboration with another Steam Underground user and with material support a member of Chinese cracking group 3DM, began releasing cracks for previously uncracked games and updated builds of titles which utilized Denuvo DRM. Voksi alleged in July 2018, after his personal site began redirecting to a Bulgarian government site, that he was raided by Bulgarian law enforcement at the behest of Denuvo's parent company. This parent company claimed responsibility for the law enforcement inquiry into Voksi in a press release.\n\nThe forum and its members have often been referenced as some variation of \"the Russian site/forum\" or directly by name by warez scene groups in statements which mention the site. At least one prominent member of the forum has been in contact with warez scene release group members, as they published several non-public cracks for The Sims 4 which they attributed to tools or methods obtained from the cracking group RELOADED. This individual was the given access or knowledge related to EA's Origin licensing scheme and DRM, as they began to release their own cracks for updated versions of The Sims 4 based on the same cracking technique.\n\nSTEAMPUNKS released unauthorized copies of games which utilized Denuvo digital rights management solutions in 2017, with their first releases being copies of Dishonored 2, ADR1FT, Planet Coaster, and ABZU. Releases by STEAMPUNKS include a license generator which creates a valid hardware ID-based license file. These licenses appear to be identical to those generated by the web-based activation servers operated by Denuvo, and they do not trigger Denuvo's DRM copy protection. This method attracted some attention upon its debut, while license generators and \"keymakers\" were fairly common in commercial software piracy, they had fallen out of use in cracking games as most games moved to the license management capabilities provided by Steam and other digital distribution platforms. One negative reaction to STEAMPUNKS' license maker came from the warez group SKIDROW in a statement from the group released in July 2017. In late September 2017, STEAMPUNKS became the first warez group to release cracked copies of Denuvo DRM-protected games within 24 hours of their commercial availability, releasing both and FIFA 18 on the same day they were made available for consumers. STEAMPUNKS collaborated with CODEX to crack upon its release, with the cracked release appearing under the portmanteau group name \"CODEPUNKS\". Following this and one other collaborative release, STEAMPUNKS became inactive, while CODEX continued to publish cracked versions of games.\n\nSuperior Art Creations (\"SAC\") is an underground artscene group which caters primarily to, and is well known within, the warez scene.\n\nTristar and Red Sector, Inc. (also known as \"TRSI\") began as an alliance between two warez groups: Tristar and Red Sector Incorporated. They were formed in 1990 as a cooperative Commodore 64 demo coding and cracking group. TRSI migrated from the Commodore 64 release platform to the Amiga and IBM-PC, and eventually branched off into the console gaming scene before finally disbanding their warez division. In late 2003, TRSI became inactive and remains so today.\n\nThe United Software Association (also known as \"USA\") was a prominent IBM PC games and applications warez group during the 1990s. USA formed an alliance with the PC warez division of Fairlight which was known as \"USA/FLT\". In late January 1992, several members of USA were arrested by the United States Secret Service and the Farmington Hills, Michigan police for credit card fraud.\n\nVACE was founded in September 2003, and focused on cracking and ripping PC games. Besides ripped games, the group also releases trainers.\n\nViTALiTY (also known as VTY) was founded in May 2005. It has been suggested they were former members of DEViANCE. The group was considered blacklisted by many in the warez scene in October 2007, something ViTALiTY claims was orchestrated by rival groups RELOADED and FAiRLiGHT, though the latter claim they were against it. ViTALiTY was accused of either reporting or threatening to report members of other groups to the FBI, though ViTALiTY claimed a senior member of RELOADED threatened to do the same to them. ViTALiTY's last release was an update to The Sims 3 on 8 October 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "53401733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53401733", "title": "Made in Croatia", "text": "Made in Croatia\n\nMade in Croatia is a merchandise mark indicating that a product has been manufactured in Croatia. Croatia awards its own quality seal 'Croatian Quality (\"Hrvatska kvaliteta\")' to the best Croatian products every year.\n"}
{"id": "23811783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23811783", "title": "Mandated choice", "text": "Mandated choice\n\nMandated choice or mandatory choice is an approach to public policy questions in which people are required by law to state in advance whether or not they are willing to engage in a particular action. The approach contrasts with \"opt-in\" and \"opt-out\" (\"presumed consent\") models of policy formation. The approach has most frequently been applied to cadaveric organ donation, but has increasingly been considered for advance directives as well. One bioethicist, in advocating for a mandatory choice model for living wills, argues that \"while all Americans should have a right to decide how they want their lives to end, it does not follow that they should be able to avoid confronting such a choice.\"\n\nOne of the first considerations of mandated choice appeared in Great Britain's Gore Report, a 1989-1990 study funded by the British Department of Health. From 2011 all those applying for or renewing driving licences online in the UK are required to state whether they wished to donate their organs.\n\nThe American Medical Association endorsed a mandated choice model for organ donation in 1994.\n\nIt has been suggested that individuals could be compelled to choose as part of tax returns, driver's licence applications, and/or state benefits claims.\n\nA 1992 survey found that 90% of American college students favored a mandated choice model for organ donation, compared with only 60% who favored presumed consent. However, Texas implemented such a program, requiring drivers to make a choice on organ donation when obtaining licenses, and found that 80% of drivers declined to donate.\n\nChouhan and Draper propose a modified scheme of mandated choice, in which though all patients are given a choice whether to donate they are actively encouraged to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "55657441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55657441", "title": "Municipal wastewater treatment energy management", "text": "Municipal wastewater treatment energy management\n\nSustainable energy management in the wastewater sector applies the concept of sustainable management to the energy involved in the treatment of wastewater. The energy used by the wastewater sector is usually the largest portion of energy consumed by the urban water and wastewater utilities. The rising costs of electricity, the contribution to greenhouse gas emissions of the energy sector and the growing need to mitigate global warming, are driving wastewater utilities to rethink their energy management, adopting more energy efficient technologies and processes and investing in on-site renewable energy generation.\n\nAmong the water and wastewater services of a city, wastewater treatment is usually the most energy intense process.\nWastewater treatment plants are designed with the purpose of treating the influent sewage to a set quality before discharging it back into a water body, without real concern for the energy consumption of the treating units of a plant. These facilities play the important role to protect not only the water systems but also the human health, preventing the discharge of pathogens normally present in the municipal sewage. Despite the key role of wastewater facilities, energy consumption can not be ignored anymore because of its contribution to greenhouse gas emissions and the need to reduce the emissions to mitigate global warming, as established by the Kyoto Protocol in 1997 and most recently, by the Paris Agreement. Moreover, there is uncertainty concerning energy costs. Because for a wastewater utility energy costs represent the second highest cost after labour, an increase in energy rate would further increase the operational budget of a municipality, and consequently, the service rates for consumers. \nTherefore, it is important for the wastewater sector to invest in strategies to limit the demand of energy from the grid in order to mitigate both costs and greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nPopulation growth, urbanisation, climate change and increasing demand for natural resources are among the future biggest challenges for the urban wastewater sector.\n\nWorld population and population density in urban settlements are expected to growth by 32% and 66% by 2050, respectively. An increase in population is expected to increase the volume of wastewater and sewage sludge requiring treatment. To handle a higher volume of sewage and sewage sludge, it is necessary to upgrade the existing wastewater facilities and the collection networks to collect, store and treat the expected additional volume. Therefore, an increase in volume translates in high future investment costs for a sector that has a low cost recovery rate. Moreover, as shown by Mizuta, there is a direct correlation between the volume of sewage treated and the energy consumption of a wastewater treatment plant. Hence, a rise in energy demand is expected with the upgrading of the existing wastewater facilities and the construction of new ones to cope with future population increase.\n\nGreenhouse gas emissions from human activities have almost doubled between 1970 and 2010. The increase in greenhouse gases is held responsible for the changes in climate that have caused impacts on natural systems across all continents and oceans. In particular, climate change has affected the water cycle, increasing the precipitation intensity and variability, increasing in this way the risks of floods and droughts in many areas. The changes that have affected the water cycle have had substantial impacts on the aquatic ecosystems, increasing and worsening the stressors already affecting these systems. Nutrient loading represents one of those stressors as, with the change in precipitation patterns, it is expected a substantial increase in nutrients entering aquatic ecosystems due to increased erosion events and frequent sewage systems overflows. Because wastewater treatment plants discharge the treated wastewater in aquatic ecosystems, the target nutrient load of these ecosystems affects the level of treatment that a wastewater treatment plant has to perform on the wastewater before being allowed to discharge it. Higher native levels of nutrients in the receiving water bodies force wastewater treatment plants to perform more stringent nutrients removal from the wastewater before dispose of it. In addition to stricter discharge limits, future standards for currently unregulated contaminants are most likely to be introduced. The combination of more stringent limits and new treatment requirements might further increase the already significant energy demand of these facilities.\n\nPopulation growth and climate change are increasing the energy needs of wastewater facilities. Because fossil fuels are still the most diffused source of energy, providing more than half of the global energy needs, the wastewater sector is still highly dependent on fossil fuel-based energy sources. Electricity, for example, is sourced from the electricity grid while gas and diesel are generally used on-site for heating and to run backup generators. High consumption of fossil-fuel energy makes the wastewater sector an indirect contributor to greenhouse gas emissions since fossil fuels are one of the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases, contributing for 65% of the CO emissions globally.\n\nThe pressure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to mitigate climate change and the increasing demand for natural resources is compelling the wastewater sector to develop innovative and more efficient practices to operate. Wastewater contains energy, nutrients and other organic and inorganic resources that can be successfully recovered and used in a broad range of applications. Energy can be recovered as biogas and heat. Biogas is an energy source with a wide range of uses, whereas heat has proven valuable for heating and cooling applications of buildings. Among the nutrients, phosphate can be recovered as struvite for fertilisers, a very important application since phosphate resources are limited and depletable. Composted sewage sludge finds applications in agricultural setting and urban gardens as soil amendment. Besides energy and nutrients, the effluent from the wastewater treatment plants can be reused as quality irrigation water both in agricultural and landscape applications. The reuse of treated water is especially valuable in countries with limited rainfall events or long periods of drought. All these possibilities are changing the vision of wastewater management and the role of wastewater treatment plants. Wastewater treatment plants have the potential not only to treat the wastewater but also to become resource recovery facilities\n\nEffective strategies adopted by wastewater utilities to reduce energy consumption and dependence from fossil fuel-based energy sources include increasing energy efficiency and generating renewable energy on site.\n\nSince the recognition of anthropogenic causes of climate change in the late 1980s and the identification of the energy sector as one of the main contributors, there has been a global effort to investigate the energy consumption of human activities and their indirect contribution to greenhouse gas emissions. In Europe the energy analysis of the wastewater sector was conducted adopting mainly two strategies. Germany (MURL, 1999) and Switzerland (BUWAL, 1994), for example, developed energy management manuals for wastewater treatment plants and reduced their energy consumption by 38% and 50%, respectively. These manuals provided wastewater utilities with energy targets to achieve. On the other hand, in 1999 Austria promoted benchmarking that allowed annual comparison of wastewater treatment plants energy performances. This comparison stimulated a competition among the wastewater treatment plants and the aspiration to improve their efficiency, which led Austria to be one of the first countries in the world to achieve energy neutrality in the wastewater sector. The energy benchmarking process has allowed wastewater treatment plants to identify their most energy-consuming assets and possible inefficiencies, and target them to reduce their energy demand. For example, the inefficiency of the aeration process identified by multiple studies has allowed the development of more energy efficient oxidation units, with a possible energy saving of about 20% to 50% in some cases according to Frijns and an EPA study.\n\nIncreased energy efficiency has allowed wastewater treatment plants to comply with discharge limits reducing the energy demand even up to 50% without affecting treatment performances. However, energy efficiency strategies by themselves are not sufficient to achieve independence from the electricity grid and fossil fuel-based energy sources. To achieve energy neutrality, multiple studies have looked at the feasibility of integrating a variety of renewable energy sources into wastewater treatment plants. The wastewater itself is a carrier of energy and a theoretical calculation, based on the characteristic of the sewage, shows that the composition of the embedded energy is 80% thermal energy and 20% chemical energy. The thermal energy can be recovered as heat while the chemical energy is recovered as biogas. \nRenewable energy generation on site, in addition to increased energy efficiency, has already allowed at least twelve plants worldwide not only to achieve energy neutrality but also to produce more energy than they need. Energy efficiency programs and renewable energy generation have proven successful in diminishing the dependence of the wastewater sector from the energy grid, reducing treatment costs and the environmental impact associated with the grid connection.\n\nThe production and recovery of energy of site offers numerous advantages contributing to operation and management cost reduction of the treatment processes, source of revenue, contribution to waste management and the cost associated with it and increased resilience in case of power shortage.\nOne of the main advantages of energy generation on site is the less stringent dependence from the electricity grid and the cost mitigation associated with it. Depending on the level of renewable energy generation, wastewater treatment plants can disconnect from the main grid when the electricity is the most expensive, usually during peak hours and simply avoid the more elevated price of these periods. When feed in tariffs are in place, wastewater treatment plants can sell electricity to the grid and reduce costs through the cost recovery of the sold energy. In some cases, energy utilities offer demand response programs, in which a wastewater utility is given a financial incentive if it disconnects when requested by the energy utility. This helps the energy utilities to mitigate energy peak demands reducing the risks of blackout, and it is source of revenue for the wastewater utilities.\n\nIn countries where a renewable energy target has been introduced, the production of renewable energy allows the wastewater sector to get a certificate for every unit of power they produce. The certificates are then bought by the electricity retailers, that surrender them every year to comply with the renewable energy regulation.\n\nAnother advantage of renewable energy production, in specific of biogas from sewage sludge, is the contribution to waste management. In fact the recovery of the chemical energy involves the reduction of the sewage sludge volume. A smaller volume of sewage sludge is cheaper to transport and dispose of, decreasing operational costs.\n\nMoreover, a diversify portfolio of energy source can contribute to a more resilient response in case of energy shortage and grid problems.\n\nDespite the numerous advantages offered by on-site renewable energy generation, wastewater utilities are experiencing several difficulties in integrating renewables in their facilities.\nFrom a survey conducted by Beca it emerged that one of the biggest barrier is that energy generation is not core business for wastewater utilities and renewable energy projects come with technical challenges and high initial investment costs. \nMoreover, each plant presents differences and it requires a customised solution for each situation, making it hard to generalise solution for the all sector. There is a lack of guidelines and roadmaps to follow, so each utility has to create specific solutions for their wastewater treatment plants.\n\nThe changing price of electricity connected with the fossil fuel price can affect the return time on the investment while the fast changing regulatory panorama increases the uncertainty of the investment and the financial value of it. This can create an unsustainable situation, where investments in renewables projects can happens only when there are subsidies given by the government.\n\nIn the specific situation of biogas production, poor management can increase the fugitive emission of greenhouse gas emissions, reducing the environmental benefits of renewable energy generation.\n"}
{"id": "1019310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019310", "title": "National Library of Ireland", "text": "National Library of Ireland\n\nThe National Library of Ireland () is the Republic of Ireland's national library located in Dublin, in a building designed by Thomas Newenham Deane. The Minister for Culture, Heritage and the Gaeltacht is the member of the Government of Ireland responsible for the library.\n\nThe mission of the National Library of Ireland is 'To collect, preserve, promote and make accessible the documentary and intellectual record of the life of Ireland and to contribute to the provision of access to the larger universe of recorded knowledge'\n\nThe library is a reference library and, as such, does not lend. It has a large quantity of Irish and Irish-related material which can be consulted without charge; this includes books, maps, manuscripts, music, newspapers, periodicals and photographs. Included in their collections is material issued by private as well as government publishers.\n\nThe Chief Herald of Ireland and National Photographic Archive are attached to the library. The library holds exhibitions and holds an archive of Irish newspapers. It is also the ISSN National Centre for Ireland. The library also provides a number of other services including genealogy.\n\nThe main library building is on Kildare Street, adjacent to Leinster House and the archaeology section of the National Museum of Ireland.\n\nThe National Library of Ireland was established by the Dublin Science and Art Museum Act 1877, which provided that the bulk of the collections in the possession of the Royal Dublin Society, should be vested in the then Department of Science and Art for the benefit of the public and of the Society, and for the purposes of the Act.\n\nAn Agreement of 1881 provided that the Library should operate under the superintendence of a Council of twelve Trustees, eight of whom were appointed by the Society and four by the Government; this Agreement also conferred on the Trustees the duty of appointing the officers of the Library. This arrangement remained in place until the library became an autonomous cultural institution in 2005.\n\nAfter the foundation of the Irish Free State in 1924/5 the Library was transferred to the Department of Education under which it remained until 1986 when it was transferred to the Department of the Taoiseach. In 1927 the Library was granted legal deposit status under the Industrial and Commercial Property (Protection) Act 1927. In 1992 the Library transferred to the newly established Department of Arts, Culture and the Gaeltacht (now Culture, Heritage and the Gaeltacht) and on 3 May 2005 became an autonomous cultural institution under the National Cultural Institutions Act 1997.\n\nThe National Library of Ireland houses collections of archival papers, including personal notes and work books, of the following eminent writers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12872298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12872298", "title": "National Library of Luxembourg", "text": "National Library of Luxembourg\n\nThe Bibliothèque nationale de Luxembourg (in English: \"National Library of Luxembourg\") is the legal deposit and copyright library for Luxembourg. It was established in 1899 in place of the municipal library which dated from 1798. It has currently (as of 2007) 750,000 books and 3500 periodicals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25959901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25959901", "title": "Natural Law and Natural Rights", "text": "Natural Law and Natural Rights\n\nNatural Law and Natural Rights is a 1980 book by the philosopher John Finnis. A restatement of natural law doctrine, it is considered a seminal contribution to the philosophy of law. The work was commissioned by H. L. A. Hart for the Clarendon Law Series.\n\nFinnis argues that social theory cannot be value free and that Humean ethics, unlike genuine (as opposed to neo-scholastic) Thomist ethics, commits a naturalistic fallacy. He bases his radically rearticulated Aristotelian political and legal theory on dialectically defended first principles of practical reason and methodological principles of practical reasonableness (morality). He defends the following basic human goods: life, knowledge, play, aesthetic experience, sociability (friendship), practical reasonableness, and religion, defined as \"all those beliefs that can be called matters of ultimate concern; questions about the point of human existence.\"\n\nThe philosophy lecturer Stephen Buckle sees Finnis's list of proposed basic goods as plausible, but notes that Finnis's account of the basic requirements of practical reasonableness is more controversial. Buckle sees Finnis's requirement of \"respect for every basic value in every act\" as intended both to rule out consequentialism in ethics and also to support the moral viewpoint of the Catholic Church on a range of contentious issues, including contraception and masturbation, which in his view undermines its plausibility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27702747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27702747", "title": "Office of Export Enforcement", "text": "Office of Export Enforcement\n\nThe Office of Export Enforcement (OEE) is a part of the United States Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security.\n\nBIS is the principal agency involved in the development, implementation, and enforcement of export controls for commercial technologies and for many military technologies as a result of the President's Export Control Reform Initiative. The Office of Export Enforcement detects, prevents, investigates and assists in the sanctioning of illegal exports of such items. The United States Senate noted this in its report to accompany H.R. 2578, dated June 16, 2015.\n\nOEE's mission is to keep the most sensitive goods out of the most dangerous hands. OEE pursues this mission by enforcing U.S. export control and related public safety laws, with a focus on violations posing the most significant threats to U.S. national and homeland security, foreign policy objectives and economic interests such as the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction and their delivery systems, international terrorism and State sponsorship of terror, and unauthorized dual-use exports for military purposes.\n\nOEE investigates violations of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, the Export Administration Regulations, the Fastener Quality Act, and other export control and public safety statutes; apprehends violators; and works with U.S. Attorneys, BIS's Office of Chief Counsel and other officials in criminal prosecutions and administrative cases based on OEE investigations. OEE Special Agents are criminal investigators who are empowered to make arrests, carry firearms, take testimony, execute search warrants, develop evidence and seize goods about to be exported illegally.\n\n"}
{"id": "1845896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1845896", "title": "Personally identifiable information", "text": "Personally identifiable information\n\nPersonal information, described in United States legal fields as either personally identifiable information (PII), or sensitive personal information (SPI), as used in information security and privacy laws, is information that can be used on its own or with other information to identify, contact, or locate a single person, or to identify an individual in context. The abbreviation PII is widely accepted in the U.S. context, but the phrase it abbreviates has four common variants based on \"personal\" / \"personally\", and \"identifiable\" / \"identifying\". Not all are equivalent, and for legal purposes the effective definitions vary depending on the jurisdiction and the purposes for which the term is being used. (In other countries with privacy protection laws derived from the OECD privacy principles, the term used is more often \"personal information\", which may be somewhat broader: in Australia's \"Privacy Act \"1988 (Cth) \"personal information\" also includes information from which the person's identity is \"reasonably ascertainable\", potentially covering some information not covered by PII.)\n\nUnder European and other data protection regimes, which centre primarily around the General Data Protection Regulation, the term \"personal data\" is significantly broader, and determines the scope of the regulatory regime.\n\nNIST Special Publication 800-122 defines PII as \"any information about an individual maintained by an agency, including (1) any information that can be used to distinguish or trace an individual's identity, such as name, social security number, date and place of birth, mother's maiden name, or biometric records; and (2) any other information that is linked or linkable to an individual, such as medical, educational, financial, and employment information.\" So, for example, a user's IP address is not classed as PII on its own, but is classified as linked PII.\n\nThe concept of PII has become prevalent as information technology and the Internet have made it easier to collect PII leading to a profitable market in collecting and reselling PII. PII can also be exploited by criminals to stalk or steal the identity of a person, or to aid in the planning of criminal acts. As a response to these threats, many website privacy policies specifically address the gathering of PII, and lawmakers have enacted a series of legislation to limit the distribution and accessibility of PII.\n\nHowever, PII is a legal concept, not a technical concept, and as noted, it is not utilised in all jurisdictions. Because of the versatility and power of modern re-identification algorithms, the absence of PII data does not mean that the remaining data does not identify individuals. While some attributes may not be uniquely identifying on their own, any attribute can be potentially identifying in combination with others. These attributes have been referred to as quasi-identifiers or pseudo-identifiers. While such data may not constitute PII in the United States, it is highly likely to remain personal data under European data protection law.\n\nThe following data, often used for the express purpose of distinguishing individual identity, clearly classify as PII under the definition used by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (described in detail below):\n\n\nThe following are less often used to distinguish individual identity, because they are traits shared by many people.\nHowever, they are potentially PII, because they may be combined with other personal information to identify an individual.\n\n\nWhen a person wishes to remain anonymous, descriptions of them will often employ several of the above, such as \"a 34-year-old white male who works at Target\". Note that information can still be \"private\", in the sense that a person may not wish for it to become publicly known, without being personally identifiable. Moreover, sometimes multiple pieces of information, none sufficient by itself to uniquely identify an individual, may uniquely identify a person when combined; this is one reason that multiple pieces of evidence are usually presented at criminal trials. It has been shown that, in 1990, 87% of the population of the United States could be uniquely identified by gender, ZIP code, and full date of birth.\n\nIn hacker and Internet slang, the practice of finding and releasing such information is called \"doxing\". It is sometimes used to deter collaboration with law enforcement. On occasion, the doxing can trigger an arrest, particularly if law enforcement agencies suspect that the \"doxed\" individual may panic and disappear.\n\nThe U.S. government used the term \"personally identifiable\" in 2007 in a memorandum from the Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and that usage now appears in US standards such as the NIST \"Guide to Protecting the Confidentiality of Personally Identifiable Information\" (SP 800-122). The OMB memorandum defines PII as follows:\n\nA term similar to PII, \"personal data\" is defined in EU directive 95/46/EC, for the purposes of the directive:\n\nHowever, in the EU rules, there has been a clearer notion that the data subject can potentially be identified through additional processing of other attributes—quasi- or pseudo-identifiers. In an early draft of the EU General Data Protection Regulation, this was formalized in Article 4, but was omitted in the final version: a \"data subject\" is one \"who can be identified, directly or indirectly, by means reasonably likely to be used by the controller or by any other natural or legal person\". The GDPR became enforceable on 25 May 2018.\n\nAnother term similar to PII, \"personal information\" is defined in a section of the California data breach notification law, SB1386:\n\nThe concept of information combination given in the SB1386 definition is key to correctly distinguishing PII, as defined by OMB, from \"personal information\", as defined by SB1386. Information, such as a name, that lacks context cannot be said to be SB1386 \"personal information\", but it must be said to be PII as defined by OMB. For example, the name John Smith has no meaning in the current context and is therefore not SB1386 \"personal information\", but it is PII. A Social Security Number (SSN) without a name or some other associated identity or context information is not SB1386 \"personal information\", but it is PII. For example, the SSN 078-05-1120 by itself is PII, but it is not SB1386 \"personal information\". However the combination of a valid name with the correct SSN is SB1386 \"personal information\".\n\nThe combination of a name with a context may also be considered PII; for example, if a person's name is on a list of patients for an HIV clinic. However, it is not necessary for the name to be combined with a context in order for it to be PII. The reason for this distinction is that bits of information such as names, although they may not be sufficient by themselves to make an identification, may later be combined with other information to identify persons and expose them to harm.\n\nAccording to the OMB, it is not always the case that PII is \"sensitive\", and context may be taken into account in deciding whether certain PII is or is not sensitive.\n\nIn Australia, the Privacy Act 1988 deals with the protection of individual privacy, using the OECD Privacy Principles from the 1980s to set up a broad, principles-based regulatory model (unlike in the US, where coverage is generally not based on broad principles but on specific technologies, business practices or data items). Section 6 has the relevant definition. The critical detail is that the definition of 'personal information' also applies to where the individual can be indirectly identified:\n\nThis raises the question of reasonableness: assume it is theoretically possible to identify a person from core information which say does NOT include a simple name and address, but does contain clues which could be pursued to ascertain who it relates to. Just how much extra effort or difficulty would such a step need before we could clearly say that the identity could NOT be \"reasonably ascertained\" from it?\n\nIt appears that this definition is significantly broader than the Californian example given above, and thus that Australian privacy law, while in some respects weakly enforced, may cover a broader category of data and information than in some US law.\nIn particular, online behavioral advertising businesses based in the US but surreptitiously collecting information from people in other countries in the form of cookies, bugs, trackers and the like may find that their preference to avoid the implications of wanting to build a psychographic profile of a particular person using the rubric of 'we don't collect personal information' may find that this does not make sense under a broader definition like that in the Australian Privacy Act.\n\n\nEuropean data protection law does not utilize the concept of PII, and its scope is instead determined by non-synonymous, wider concept of \"personal data\".\n\nFurther examples can be found on the EU privacy website.\n\n\nThe twelve Information Privacy Principles of the Privacy Act 1993 apply.\n\nThe Federal Act on Data Protection of 19 June 1992 (in force since 1993) has set up a strict protection of privacy by prohibiting virtually any processing of personal data which is not expressly authorized by the data subjects. The protection is subject to the authority of the Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner.\n\nAdditionally, any person may ask in writing a company (managing data files) the correction or deletion of any personal data. The company must respond within thirty days.\n\nThe Privacy Act of 1974 (Pub.L. 93–579, 88 Stat. 1896, enacted December 31, 1974, 5 U.S.C. § 552a), a United States federal law, establishes a Code of Fair Information Practice that governs the collection, maintenance, use, and dissemination of personally identifiable information about individuals that is maintained in systems of records by federal agencies.\n\nOne of the primary focuses of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), is to protect a patient's Protected Health Information (PHI), which is similar to PII. The U.S. Senate proposed the Privacy Act of 2005, which attempted to strictly limit the display, purchase, or sale of PII without the person's consent. Similarly, the (proposed) Anti-Phishing Act of 2005 attempted to prevent the acquiring of PII through phishing.\n\nU.S. lawmakers have paid special attention to the social security number because it can be easily used to commit identity theft. The (proposed) Social Security Number Protection Act of 2005 and (proposed) Identity Theft Prevention Act of 2005 each sought to limit the distribution of an individual's social security number.\n\n\n\nIn forensics, particularly the identification and prosecution of criminals, personally identifiable information is critical in establishing evidence in criminal procedure. Criminals may go to great trouble to avoid leaving any PII, such as by:\n\n\n\nIn some professions, it is dangerous for a person's identity to become known, because this information might be exploited violently by their enemies; for example, their enemies might hunt them down or kidnap loved ones to force them to cooperate. For this reason, the United States Department of Defense (DoD) has strict policies controlling release of PII of DoD personnel. Many intelligence agencies have similar policies, sometimes to the point where employees do not disclose to their friends that they work for the agency.\n\nSimilar identity protection concerns exist for witness protection programs, women's shelters, and victims of domestic violence and other threats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40813930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40813930", "title": "Preseault v. United States", "text": "Preseault v. United States\n\nPreseault v. United States (U.S. Ct. of Appeals, Federal Circuit 1996) was a notable US court case involving Rail to Trails programs in the state of Vermont. The case involved the scope of the government’s ownership in public interests it had abandoned years prior to its decision to reuse the property for another task without considering the land-owners rights.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s the US government began the Rail to Trails program across the nation to alter defunct railroad lines into public trails for recreational use. Since the rise of railroad efficiency and its conglomeration, many lines had become defunct and uneconomical. In an effort to promote conservation, the government enacted a policy that would turn these lines into recreational trails for hiking, biking, or possibly other activities.\n\nPreseault owned the land that a defunct Vermont rail line formerly operated. The railroad had an easement on Preseault’s land to operate the line. In 1970 the rail line became completely unoperated and was left defunct until 1975 when the rail track was dismantled leaving the path only. However the railroad never officially filed an abandonment order.\n\nThe railroad company had bought the land under a fee simple contract, meaning they legally owned the land. However it was an incorrect filing and for all intents and purposes the agreement was treated as an easement and recognized as such by all parties. Preseault bought the land aware that there was an easement on the land, but believed said easement had been abandoned since the track was dismantled and removed. \n\nWhen the Rails to trails program was initiated, the Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) gained ownership of the line and began refitting the line as a recreational trail without the permission of Preseault. The ICC, along with the state, believed they still had rights of use under their easement agreement and that using the trail for a new recreational program was not in violation of the easement’s protocol. A trail was built and hikers and bicyclists began transgressing on Preseault’s property. Preseault filed a complaint with the ICC stating that his permission was never attained and that he was never compensated. The ICC refused, stating that the easement of the past railroad line had carried over to its ownership. \n\nPreseault therefore brought the case to the US Supreme Court in 1986, stating the Rails to Trails program was unconstitutional and was ruled against. Preseault eventually sued the federal government and brought his case to the Appellate Court for further review that was finally decided in 1996. \n\nThe court first considered if the rights to use the land were under an easement contract, which is how it was effectively used, or if it was under a fee simple, as it nominally was. In this regard the court found that the railroad had in fact procured an easement and not a fee simple. The court then deliberated on the nature of the easement.\n\nEasements can be passed from one title holder to another. However, it generally must follow certain conditions such as: \n\nOn both of these conditions the court deliberated and made findings crucial to the case. One, they found that when the railroad dismantled the track in 1975, they had effectively abandoned their right of easement, regardless of having not filed an abandonment order. Therefore any easement pertaining to the use of this rail track became void.\n\nSecondly the function of the land in question was being used for a different purpose, and therefore could certainly not hold up under easement terms. Fee simple terms would have permitted this, but the court had already determined that the terms of the contract were certainly under an easement. \n\nThe court found that Preseault’s 5th Amendment Rights, specifically his right of just compensation, had been violated since the land in question was surely his legal property. The easement had been abandoned by the railroad when it dismantled track and thus it never had the legal right to turn easement rights over to the ICC. \n\nThe Federal Government was required to pay Preseault compensation for the use of the land and seek his explicit permission to use the land under a new easement contract specific to a recreational trail. \n\nThis case greatly reinforces 5th Amendment rights of citizens and bars the government from transferring easements of land for different purposes without a new contract being created with the property owner. It also establishes that the intent of a contract, such as between an easement and a fee simple, is significant and may help to alter the findings of a case. The filing in this instance was incorrectly done and for all intents and purposes was treated as an easement.\n"}
{"id": "33532463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33532463", "title": "Protecting Children from Internet Pornographers Act of 2011", "text": "Protecting Children from Internet Pornographers Act of 2011\n\nThe Protecting Children from Internet Pornographers Act of 2011 () is a United States bill designed with the stated intention of increasing enforcement of laws related to the prosecution of child pornography and child sexual exploitation offenses. Representative Lamar Smith (R-Texas), sponsor of H.R. 1981, stated that, \"When investigators develop leads that might result in saving a child or apprehending a pedophile, their efforts should not be frustrated because vital records were destroyed simply because there was no requirement to retain them.\"\n\nOrganizations that support the goal of the bill include the National Sheriffs' Association, the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), the National Center for Victims of Crime, and Eastern North Carolina Stop Human Trafficking Now.\n\nH.R. 1981 has been criticized for its scope and privacy implications. Opponents of the bill, which include Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), the American Civil Liberties Union, and the American Library Association, take issue with the violation of privacy that would necessarily occur if government could compel ISPs to render subscriber information. Kevin Bankston, an EFF staff attorney, stated that \"The data retention mandate in this bill would treat every Internet user like a criminal and threaten the online privacy and free speech rights of every American..., \".\n\nOn May 25, 2011, Representative Lamar Smith of Texas introduced the bill. It was co-sponsored by 25 other House Representatives. The bill passed the United States House Judiciary Committee on July 28, 2011, by a vote of 19-10. As of January 2012, the bill had 39 co-sponsors. A Congressional Budget Office report on the costs of enacting the bill was released on October 12, 2011. The next step for the bill would be a debate in the House of Representatives.\n\nH.R. 1981 would introduce harsher penalties for offenders and make it a crime to financially facilitate the sale, distribution and purchase of child pornography. The bill would also amend Section 2703 of the Stored Communications Act, requiring ISPs to retain user IP addresses thereby enabling identification of \"corresponding customer or subscriber information\" listed in subsection (c)(2) of 18 USC 2703, for at least one year. Retained information would include subscribers' names, addresses, length of service, telephone numbers, and means and sources of payment for services (including credit card or bank account numbers, if they were used to pay for service.) The bill does not introduce limits on subscriber information that may be retained by the ISPs and accessed by the government. The bill also protects ISPs from civil actions resulting from the loss of data stored as a requirement of the bill. The bill also requires the Attorney General to conduct studies related to the costs of compliance for service providers as well as the compliance standards implemented by service providers. The cost assessment would include hardware, software, and all personnel involved in the compliance and the compliance assessment would include a survey of the privacy standards implemented by the providers and the frequency of reported breaches of data.\n\nUse of the data ISPs would be forced to retain under the bill would not be limited to investigations of child pornography, but would be available for law enforcement perusal for any issue, but only with probable cause and a warrant. However, issues involving unregistered sex offenders would allow for the use of an administrative subpoena, which is different from a warrant or judicial subpoena, and which does not require probable cause. The bill does not grant the right to access subscriber records to any \"person or other entity that is not a governmental entity.\"\n\nThe bill also does not provide extra funding to investigate or prosecute additional child pornography related cases.\n\nOn July 12, 2011, the Sheriff of Bedford County, VA, provided testimony on H.R. 1981 before the United States House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security. In his testimony, Brown claimed that the growth of technology and the ability to claim anonymity has \"enabled child pornography to become a worldwide epidemic\" and made it more difficult for law enforcement to identify and prosecute child predators. Brown further reasoned that an Internet Service Provider (ISP) could retain client records for a limited span of time, ranging from a couple hours, days, or weeks, and that a lack of uniformity across ISPs \"significantly hinders law enforcement's ability to identify predators when they come across child pornography.\" He then provided an actual account of when his county received a cybertip from the NCMEC involving an individual who posted that they were exposing themselves to a toddler. The only information he claimed law enforcement possessed was the IP address that was accessing a YAHOO Chat room through an nTelos wireless connection. During the investigation, law enforcement discovered that the ISP only retained the Media access control address and IP history for 30 days, a limit that foreclosed their opportunity to access investigative material. \nNCEMC, which created CyberTipline over a decade ago, reported that, \"To date, more than 51 million child pornography images and videos have been reviewed by the analysts in NCMEC's Child Victim Identification Program\" and it is estimated that \"[Forty] percent or more of people who possess child pornography also sexually assault children\" and H.R. 1981 \"equips federal, state and local law enforcement agencies with the modern-day tools needed to combat the escalation in child pornography and child exploitation crimes.\" \n\nIt has been suggested by critics including the Center for Democracy and Technology, that H.R. 1981 was framed as a child protection measure at least in part to make it more difficult for members of Congress to reject the bill.\n\nVarious groups have expressed concerns over the privacy implications of the data providers would be required to retain under the act, including the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the American Civil Liberties Union, and the American Library Association. Concerns raised include the security of the data from a hacker, the nature of the data collected, as well as the potential for misuse by law enforcement, or use in investigations that are not child pornography-related.\n\nEven though only assigned IP addresses and certain subscriber data would be retained, some commenters, including the EFF and some editorialists, have suggested that the data could be used to deduce any given user's personal habits, including a detailed map of where they customarily are at any given point in a day. The CDT also issued a comprehensive memorandum regarding the Data Retention Mandate in H.R. 1981, in which it detailed how data retention provisions in H.R. 1981 would raise issues concerning privacy and free speech, among the few other issues that the bill raises.\n\nRepresentative Zoe Lofgren, (D-Calif.), a vocal opponent of the bill, presented an amendment to rename the bill the \"Keep Every American's Digital Data for Submission to the Federal Government Without a Warrant Act.\" Rep. John Conyers (D-Mich.) also opposed it, saying \"This is not protecting children from Internet pornography. It's creating a database for everybody in this country for a lot of other purposes.\" She also argued that the bill's pertinence to \"commercial\" ISPs would allow criminals to circumvent legislation if they used the Internet anonymously in venues including Internet cafes or libraries.\n\nLamar Smith, however, has defended the data retention requirements present in the bill in stating that, \"Some Internet service providers currently retain these [IP] addresses for business purposes. But the period of retention varies widely among providers, from a few days to a few months. The lack of uniform data retention impedes the investigation of Internet crimes.\" Smith also stated that the number of child pornography cases has grown by 150% per year over the past ten years.\n\nMarc Rotenberg, president of the Electronic Privacy Information Center has gone on record for saying that\n\"the bill's expansion of data retention is counter to the growing practice to limit data retention as \na mechanism to counter security threats.\" In addition, Rotenberg also mentions that in fact, there is a strong movement towards minimization of data retention in the information security arena, and data retention is in direct conflict with that notion. Rotenberg concluded that data minization and not data retention is the best way to protect consumer privacy.\n\nOn October 12, 2011 a report by the Congressional Budget Office on the financial impact of the bill was released. This report stated that the cost to the government would be minimal and that the private companies providing Internet services would pay over $200 million in costs. Costs would include servers for storage of the user data.\n\nThe Center for Democracy and Technology has issued a report suggesting that the cost of data retention would be much higher than the Congressional Budget Office report indicates, and would grow prohibitively expensive with ongoing trends in internet addressing.\n\nH.R. 1981 is similar to Canada's Protecting Children from Internet Predators Act which \"requires Internet providers to acquire the ability to engage in multiple simultaneous interceptions and gives law enforcement the power to audit their surveillance capabilities. Should it take effect, the bill would create a new regulatory environment for Internet providers, requiring them to submit a report within months of the law taking effect describing their equipment and surveillance infrastructure. Moreover, they would actively work with law enforcement to test their facilities for interception purposes and even provide the name of employees involved in interceptions to allow for possible RCMP background checks.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "7069547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7069547", "title": "Public Libraries (Scotland) Act 1920", "text": "Public Libraries (Scotland) Act 1920\n\nThe Public Libraries (Scotland) Act 1920 (10 & 11 Geo. V c. 45) was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom. It became law on 16 August 1920.\n\nIt amended the Public Libraries Consolidation (Scotland) Act 1887, providing that with effect from 15 May 1920, the rating limit under section 8 of that Act was increased from 1\"d\" to 3\"d\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "287860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287860", "title": "Public law", "text": "Public law\n\nPublic law is that part of law which governs relationships between individuals and the government, and those relationships between individuals which are of direct concern to society. Public law comprises constitutional law, administrative law, tax law and criminal law, as well as all procedural law. In public law, mandatory rules prevail. Laws concerning relationships between individuals belong to private law.\n\nThe relationships public law governs are asymmetric and unequal – government bodies (central or local) can make decisions about the rights of individuals. However, as a consequence of the rule of law doctrine, authorities may only act within the law (\"secundum et intra legem\"). The government must obey the law. For example, a citizen unhappy with a decision of an administrative authority can ask a court for judicial review.\n\nRights, too, can be divided into \"private rights\" and \"public rights\". A paragon of a public right is the right to welfare benefits – only a natural person can claim such payments, and they are awarded through an administrative decision out of the government budget.\n\nThe distinction between public law and private law dates back to Roman law. It has been picked up in the countries of civil law tradition at the beginning of the nineteenth century, but since then spread to common law countries, too.\n\nThe borderline between public law and private law is not always clear in particular cases, giving rise to attempts of theoretical understanding of its basis.\n\nRule of law, the idea that the administration of the state should be controlled by a set of laws, originated in Greek Antiquity and was revitalized by modern philosophers in France (Rousseau), Germany (Kant) and Austria in the 18th century. It is related to the strong position of the central government in the era of enlightened absolutism, and was inspired by the French Revolution and enlightenment. It developed hand in hand with the creation of civil codes and criminal codes.\n\nIn modern states, constitutional law lays out the foundations of the state. Above all, it postulates the supremacy of law in the functioning of the state – the rule of law.\n\nSecondly, it sets out the form of government – how its different branches work, how they are elected or appointed, and the division of powers and responsibilities between them. Traditionally, the basic elements of government are the executive, the legislature and the judiciary.\n\nAnd thirdly, in describing what are the basic human rights, which must be protected for every person, and what further civil and political rights citizens have, it sets the fundamental borders to what \"any\" government must and must not do.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, constitutional law is enshrined in a written document, the Constitution, sometimes together with amendments or other constitutional laws. In some countries, however, such a supreme entrenched written document does not exist for historical and political reasons – the Constitution of the United Kingdom is an unwritten one.\n\nAdministrative law refers to the body of law which regulates bureaucratic managerial procedures and defines the powers of administrative agencies. These laws are enforced by the executive branch of a government rather than the judicial or legislative branches (if they are different in that particular jurisdiction). This body of law regulates international trade, manufacturing, pollution, taxation, and the like. This is sometimes seen as a subcategory of civil law and sometimes seen as public law as it deals with regulation and public institutions\n\nCriminal law involves the state imposing sanctions for defined crimes committed by individuals or businesses, so that society can achieve its brand of justice and a peaceable social order.\n\nIn German-language legal literature, there is an extensive discussion on the precise nature of the distinction between public law and private law. Several theories have evolved, which are neither exhaustive, nor are they mutually exclusive or separate from each other.\n\nThe interest theory has been developed by the Roman jurist Ulpian: \"\"Publicum ius est, quod ad statum rei Romanae spectat, privatum quod ad singulorum utilitatem.\" (Public law is that, which concerns Roman state, private law is concerned with the interests of citizens.) The weak point of this theory is that many issues of private law also affect the public interest. Also, what exactly is this public interest?\n\nThe subjection theory focuses on explaining the distinction by emphasizing the subordination of private persons to the state. Public law is supposed to govern this relationship, whereas private law is considered to govern relationships where the parties involved meet on a level playing field. This theory fails in areas commonly considered private law which also imply subordination, such as employment law. Also, the modern state knows relationships in which it appears as equal to a person.\n\nThe subject theory is concerned with the position of the subject of law in the legal relationship in question. If it finds itself in a particular situation as a public person (due to membership in some public body, such as a state or a municipality), public law applies, otherwise it is private law.\n\nA combination of the subjection theory and the subject theory arguably provides a workable distinction. Under this approach, a field of law is considered public law where one actor is a public authority endowed with the power to act unilaterally (\"imperium\") and this actor uses that \"imperium\" in the particular relationship. In other words, all depends whether the public authority is acting as a public or a private entity, say when ordering office supplies. This latest theory considers public law to be a special instance.\n\nThere are areas of law, which do not seem to fit into either public or private law, such as employment law – parts of it look like private law (the employment contract), other parts like public law (the activities of an employment inspectorate when investigating workplace safety).\n\nThe distinction between public and private law might seem to be a purely academic debate, but it also affects legal practice. It has bearing on the delineation between competences of different courts and administrative bodies. Under the Austrian constitution, for example, private law is among the exclusive competences of federal legislation, whereas public law is partly a matter of state legislation.\n\n"}
{"id": "30812632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30812632", "title": "Scott Greenall", "text": "Scott Greenall\n\nScott Greenall, (born January 16, 1973) is an artist from Garden Grove, California. Although suffering from Cerebral Palsy since birth, in 1992 he started a small multi-track recording studio in his grandparents' garage.\n\nThough Greenall was a musician from an early age, he opened the studio to learn the art of recording by recording bands from all around the Greater Los Angeles Area. In 1993 Greenall produced and recorded a full-length album for Real-Eyes titled \"Contagious\". In that same year, (1993) he recorded and engineered a 7\", EP. titled \"What I Can't Have\" for Plaid Retina. Greenall closed the recording studio to the public in late 1996.\n\nScott Greenall used his experience as a recording engineer / producer to craft and nurture his own sound and material.\n\nStarting in 1997, Scott Greenall began performing live. One show he performed in Orange County, California, caught the eye of film producer, Kevin Ragsdale, who, in 2004, cast Scott Greenall to perform a song that Greenall wrote titled, \"I'm Never Going Away\" in the feature-length film, \"The Curse of El Charro\". The movie introduced Scott Greenall\"s artistic stylings to a whole new public. Greenall gave a remarkably eerie performance in a scene that literally feels like David Lynch had stepped in for a moment to direct. The film was released through Paramount / Showtime cable vision, as well as DVD, and distributed worldwide.\n\nIn 2006, film director / composer, Rich Ragsdale, directed a music video for Scott Greenall. The video was produced by KNR-Productions for a song Greenall wrote titled \"All The Love in the World Can't Save You Now\".\n\nScott Greenall emerged as an artist through the Deathrock underground.\n\nOn January 2, 2014, Scott Greenall released a 5-song EP. titled \"And I Remind You\". The liner notes read \"This record is based around coming to terms with situations that are beyond control, as well as the power of self will, the strength to make difficult decisions and the insight to accept and adapt to their outcomes.\"\n\nOn August 1, 2015, Scott Greenall released a 5-song EP. titled \"Fallen World\".\n\nAll Scott Greenall music is affiliated with BMI and independently released and distributed by FAMINE MEDIA.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4118476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4118476", "title": "Series 6 exam", "text": "Series 6 exam\n\nIn the United States, the investment company products/variable life contracts representative exam, is commonly referred to as the Series 6 exam. Individuals passing this multiple choice exam are licensed to sell a limited set of securities products:\n\nA Series 6 registered individual is not a stockbroker since Series 6 license holders cannot sell stock, other corporate securities, direct participation programs (DPPs), or option products.\n\nThis exam is administered by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA, previously known as the NASD). In order to take the exam, an individual must be sponsored by a member firm of either FINRA or a self-regulatory organization (SRO). The cost of the exam is $100.00. Individuals are allowed two hours and fifteen minutes to complete 100 multiple choice questions. The passing score is 70%, and those who fail this exam must wait thirty days before taking it again.\n\nThe table below lists the allocation of exam questions for each main job function of an investment company and variable contracts products representative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10122005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10122005", "title": "Singaporean nationality law", "text": "Singaporean nationality law\n\nSingaporean nationality law is derived from the Constitution of Singapore and is based on \"jus sanguinis\" and a modified form of \"jus soli\". There are three ways of acquiring Singaporean citizenship: by birth, by descent, or by registration. \n\nSingaporean citizenship was first granted in 1959 when Singapore was a self-governing colony of the United Kingdom. At that time, Singapore had already been granted full internal self-government. Singapore Citizenship Ordinance 1957 provided Singaporean citizenship to all residents who were born in Singapore or the Federation of Malaya, British citizens who had been resident for two years, and others who had been resident for ten years. Singaporeans were still considered British subjects at that time, and their passports had the unusual nationality status of \"British subject: citizen of the State of Singapore\" instead of the usual \"British subject: citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies\".. There are treaties signed by the United Kingdom during this period specifically mention this unusual nationality status.\n\nAll Singaporean citizens became Malaysian citizens on 16 September 1963 upon Singapore's merger with Malaysia on that date. Malaysian nationality law provided that Singaporean citizenship to continue to exist as a subnational citizenship. Singaporean citizenship continued to be legislated by the Legislative Assembly of Singapore, subject to the approval of the Parliament of Malaysia. Singaporean citizenship was inseparable from Malaysian citizenship; in other words, it was not possible to have Singaporean citizenship without having Malaysian citizenship.\n\nUpon Singapore's secession from Malaysia on 9 August 1965, Malaysian citizenship was withdrawn from Singaporean citizens. Singaporean nationality law was incorporated into the new Constitution of Singapore. The constitution repealed the 1957 Ordinance, and all persons who were citizens as of 16 September 1963 by virtue of the Ordinance continued to be Singaporean citizens.\n\nThe Constitution was amended in 2004 to allow female citizens and citizens by descent to transmit their citizenship to children born overseas. For this to occur, citizens by descent must satisfy certain residency requirements.\n\nA person is a Singaporean citizen by birth if he or she is born in Singapore with at least one parent who is a Singaporean citizen provided both parents are registered officially as legally married.\n\nHowever, a child whose father is a foreign diplomat who enjoys immunity in Singapore will not be granted Singaporean citizenship even if his or her mother is Singaporean. The gender-specific language of this clause allows an unusual scenario where a child born in Singapore whose mother is a foreign diplomat and whose father is Singaporean will obtain Singaporean citizenship by birth but not if the gender roles are reversed.\n\nA person born outside Singapore on or after 15 May 2004, with at least one parent who is a Singaporean citizen, is a Singaporean citizen by descent. If the parent from whom the child derives citizenship is a Singaporean citizen by descent, the parent must have been resident in Singapore for a total of at least five years before the child's birth or a total of at least two years out of the five years immediately preceding the child's birth.\n\nA person born outside Singapore before 15 May 2004 will be a Singaporean citizen by descent only if his or her father was a Singaporean citizen by birth or by registration at the time of birth.\n\nIf the parent from whom the child derives citizenship is a Singaporean citizen by registration, the child will be granted Singaporean citizenship by descent only if they do not acquire citizenship of the country of their birth.\n\nRegistration is the term used in the Constitution to refer to the process commonly known as naturalisation. A person can apply for registration as a Singaporean citizen if he or she has been a Permanent Resident for at least two years and is gainfully employed or married to a Singaporean citizen. A male Permanent Resident may also apply upon satisfactory completion of full-time National Service, as may children of Singaporean citizens resident in Singapore. Each application is considered on its own merits.\n\nAlthough provided for in the Constitution, citizenship by naturalisation is no longer granted. The government instead uses the constitutional provision for citizenship by registration to grant citizenship to residents.\n\nThe position of the Singapore Government is that dual citizenship is not allowed. The laws regarding Singapore citizenship are found in the Constitution of Singapore.\n\nA dual citizen may have acquired citizenship by birth in a foreign country, by descent from a foreign citizen parent, or by naturalisation. Singapore citizens who voluntarily and intentionally acquire citizenship of a foreign country after the age of 18 may be deprived of their Singapore citizenship by the Government. Foreigners who naturalise as Singaporean citizens are required to renounce all foreign citizenships. Persons who are born outside of Singapore and have at least one parent who is a Singapore citizen may register with a Singapore consulate within a year to acquire Singapore citizenship by descent. However, such persons must renounce their foreign citizenship, if any, before reaching 22 years of age. The Constitution of Singapore is silent on a Singapore citizen who acquired citizenship by birth and is a foreign citizen by descent. So long as such a person refrains from exercising the rights of foreign citizenship, the Government has no grounds for depriving him of his Singapore citizenship and he may hold on to dual citizenship.\n\nThe prohibition of dual citizenship is a contentious issue in Singapore. As the economy becomes more globalized and Singaporeans more mobile, many Singaporeans have acquired foreign citizenships and reluctantly renounced their Singaporean citizenship even though they may feel a strong emotional attachment to Singapore. Immigrants who have been resident in Singapore for long periods and qualify for Singaporean citizenship may be reluctant to become naturalized citizens as it would mean giving up the citizenship of their native countries.\n\nThe government argues that authorising its citizens to concurrently hold foreign nationalities would be undesirable since, due to Singapore's geopolitical position, it cannot afford to allow its citizens multiple allegiances which may be compromised in times of national crisis. The government also fears that those without a second citizenship may feel aggrieved if dual citizens enjoy the benefits of citizenship during periods of wealth but leave the country in trying times. Nevertheless, the government is open to the possibility of allowing dual citizenship if local and global circumstances demand so.\n\nCitizens of Singapore can only renounce Singaporean citizenship if they have acquired citizenship of another country. At the time of renunciation, renunciants must submit their Singaporean passports and National Registration Identity Cards for cancellation. From 2007 to 2011, about 1,200 Singaporean citizens renounce their citizenship every year, 300 of them are naturalised citizens. Male Singaporeans cannot renounce citizenship until completing national service; however, exceptions are made for males who emigrated at a young age. In 2012, a Hong Kong-born teenager filed a lawsuit regarding this requirement in order to give up his citizenship.\n\nAll Singaporean citizens are Commonwealth citizens and are entitled to certain rights in the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth countries. For example, they can vote in all elections (including for the European Parliament), hold public office and serve on juries in the UK. However, Singaporean citizens do not receive consular assistance from British embassies in non-Commonwealth countries without a Singapore representative unlike other Commonwealth nations, owing to the Singapore government's option not to afford Singaporeans this privilege.\n\nThese rights include:\n\n\nIn 2018, Singaporean citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 189 countries and territories, ranking the Singaporean passport second in the world according to the Henley Passport Index.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57077126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57077126", "title": "Solar Decathlon China", "text": "Solar Decathlon China\n\nThe 2018 edition of the Solar Decathlon China will take place in Dezhou, China.\n\n\nWithdrawn teams: \n\nTeams:\n\nThe first Solar Decathlon China was held in Datong, China, August 2–13, 2013.\n\nThe top finishers were:\n\n\nThe other participating teams were:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12418327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12418327", "title": "Syntagma Canonum", "text": "Syntagma Canonum\n\nSyntagma Canonum is a canonical collection made in 1335 by Matthew Blastares, a Greek monk about whose life nothing certain is known. \nThe collector aimed at reducing canon law to a handier and more accessible form than it appeared in the Nomocanon of Photius, and to give a more comprehensive presentation than the epitomes and synopses of earlier writers such as Stephen (fifth century), Aristenus (1160), Arsenius (1255), et al. The author arranged his matter in alphabetical order. He made 24 general divisions, each marked off by a letter of the Greek alphabet. These sections he subdivided into 303 titles, themselves distinguished by letters; for example, the third section contains such topics as: \"peri gamou\" (about marriage), \"peri gynaikon\" (about women), etc. The titles ordinarily treat of the civil law (\"nomoi politikoi\"), as well as ecclesiastical law. Some titles however are purely ecclesiastical, others purely civil. The church ordinances are quoted from previous collections, especially from the Nomocanon (883), while the extracts from the civil law are for the most part transcribed without any reference to their origin. The compilation soon came into general use among the clergy, and preserved its authority even under Ottoman rule. A translation into Serbian followed close upon its first publication. It even worked its way into the political life of the Serbian people through an abridgment which Serbian Emperor Dušan appended to his code of laws (1349). From this the purely ecclesiastical enactments were excluded, but the civil law contained in the Syntagma was reproduced whenever adaptable to the social condition of the people. In the sixteenth century the Syntagma Canonum was translated into Bulgarian; in the seventeenth century into Russian.\n"}
{"id": "8885975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8885975", "title": "Vagabonds Act 1597", "text": "Vagabonds Act 1597\n\nThe Vagabonds Act 1597 is an Act of the Parliament of England (39 Eliz. c. 4). \n\nThe moving force behind the bill was probably Mr Secretary, Robert Cecil who wrote his policy in \"Notes for the Parliament\" on the basis of a speech to be made on November 5th. The Ninth Parliament of Elizabeth's reign had opened on October 24th, 1597, and it promised to be one of its most productive. Cecil was concerned that the dearth of corn, high prices, rising homelessness, and \"the lamentable cry of the poor, who are like to perish\" was causing considerable distress, riot and even rebellion: in London alone there were an estimated 10,000 vagabonds; and 2,000 in Norwich. During 1597 the harvest failed causing widespread suffering and hardship: many thousands were made unemployed by the enclosures which compounded the effects of the famine. One MP Sir Francis Hastings remarked defined the term 'vagabond' calling for them to be arrested, whipped and returned to their place of origin where they would be set to work in a House of Correction. Despite local variations in provision, vagrancy continued to be a national problem.\n\nCecil promoted the three bills to follow, supported mainly by Puritans. However a majority of the gentry in the Commons rebelled against the social measures; one of these was the flamboyant Sir Walter Raleigh. On 22 November 1597, Chairman of the Grand Committee, Sir Robert Wroth, seconded by Henry Finch, both Puritans three of the greatest pieces of Elizabethan legislation. In December the bill was read for a second time (\"secunda vice\") before being kicked upstairs to the Lords. In Grand Committee it received many amendments, and likewise from the Lords. The bill caused considerable debate in both houses. However the two houses could not agree how categories of prisoner were to be described. On the third reading in the Commons the bill was rejected on a division by 106 votes to 66. Under Elizabethan procedure, the Lords drafted a compromise bill which passed both houses with ease. It introduced penal transportation as a punishment for the first time. During the reign of Henry VIII, it has been estimated that 72,000 people were executed. With the establishment of settlements in North America, an alternative practice (seemingly borrowed from Spain) began of a reprieve of the death sentence should the condemned person consent to be transported to an American colony, and be entered into bond service. However, it is probable that this part of the legislation was never put into force. Another effect of the Act was to lessen the severity of a punishment meted out to strolling players imposed under a 1572 act wherein \"all fencers, bearwards, common players of interludes, and minstrels (not belonging to any baron of this realm, or to any other honourable person of greater degree),\" wandering abroad without the license of two justices at the least, were subject \"to be grievously whipped and burned through the gristle of the right ear with a hot iron of the compass of an inch about.\" \n\nThe Relief of the Parish Poor remained in force down to 20th Century, the third act to pass in 1597 was an Act to erect Hospitals and 'working houses for the poor' that became the basis for the Victorian workhouse system; and another was the Act for \"the punishment of rogues, vagabonds and sturdy beggars\". Rogues who escaped were arrested, branded and then returned to the House of Correction until the 'governer' could decide when to obtain their release. Since many vagabonds took refuge in these areas, the main change brought in by the act at Clause 3 was the stipulation that vagrants or 'sturdy beggars' should be sent back to their place of origin. They were viewed by Parliament essentially as being migrants, and therefore should be returned from whence they came. The act required every parish to keep a record of every resident, including potential vagrants, who might go wandering across the realm. Unfortunately most of this information was only available in the larger cities. The paucity of quality record-keeping meant it was difficult to interpret how population increases reflected upon rising vagrancy rates during 'The Dearth' of 1590s. The act insisted the \"wandering\" and \"loitering\" was designated into two social groups of unskilled poor and unemployed economic migrants: however as no person was forced to \"wander\" it was thus interpreted as falling hardest on the poorest. \n\nThese acts were lasting testaments to Elizabethan religious radicalism that were among the most profound of the many reforms of the period. These were violent times. There were riots and plague in London in 1592, and then in 1596 an armed uprising in Oxfordshire. The Queen's fears and apprehensions were exaggerated by the enclosure acts that drove sheep onto the land, and peasants off it, as described to her by John Manwood in his treatise \"A Brefe Collection of the Lawes of the Forest\" (1592); they circumscribed the royal prerogative. The Midland counties of thick afforested areas, such as the Forest of Arden were more disorderly, unruly and more likely to have livestock than the lowland arable areas. The poor would \"dwell in woods ...like drones devoted to thievery,\" whereas \"the forests, if inclosed, would be more secure for travellers...and more beneficial for the Commonwealth.\" The difference gave rise to David Underdown's 'chalk and cheese' description citing immigration, price instability, dearth, and social instability as main factors leading to vagabondage and vagrancy among the lower orders driving out by informal rough justice. The cow pasturage thus represented a border area with woodlands of lawlessness and violence. Marxist historians Christopher Hill and Sharp, have argued that the violence was syptomatic of organized angry resistance mobilised in the iron founding areas, turning out weaponry from secret 'hideaways'. They have contended that far from passive acceptance of their starving condition, the poor sought to fight back against the callous landlords. The foresters were \"addicted to crime and violence - all rogues.\"\n\nIrish vagrants travelled in bands like a circus, and often assumed the title \"gypsies\" which was affected. There is little evidence of gangs of aggressive beggars roaming Elizabethan England, except in as much as \"gentlemen of the road\" and other soubriquet are mentioned in Shakespeare's legendary works. Informative though it was, much of the literature was based on the romanticism of the Robin Hood, as the lawless vagabond and thief. In one clause beggars were punished for 'subtle crafts' proscribing palmistry, fortune-telling, minstrelling or unlicensed acting, most often associated with illiterate itinerant communities. By contrast the English tended to travel in ones and twos frequenting along the way at familiar haunts, such as a refreshment house, barn, or lodging-house. No Gaming was allowed and the Innkeepers were expected too keep a good house. The Quarter Sessions were a binding cognizance against \"harbouring rogues, vagabonds and others without passports.\"\n\nTypically young adults, predominantly men, either looking for work or engaged in petty crime. Officials prescribed that they \"deserved to be whipped or stocked\" as a punishment for transgressions. Those that were not punished were integrated into town life \"to save the town harmless.\" Towns suffered from relatively high mortality rates, and so new 'blood' was always welcomed to boost numbers. By the Jacobean Parliament of 1610 it was noted that \"thieves, rogues and beggars\" had threatened local populations by coming out of the woods, from whence they had earlier taken refuge in times of The Dearth. The act also made those listed in several categories liable for impressment in the service of the fleet. Jacobean statute reversed the requirement to send people home, perhaps in recognition of a New World circumstance in which Transportation helped to satisfy demands for colonists. Indeed Australian law has traced the origins of the commutation of labour to Macquarie Harbour down to the 1597 act and a Privy Council decision of 1602. When “lesser offenders adjudged by law to die” [to] be punished instead in a manner that will correct them “and yield a profitable service to the Commonwealth in parts abroad...”. The Vagabond Act 1597 was repealed by section 28 of the Vagrants Act 1713.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "99860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99860", "title": "Voting", "text": "Voting\n\nVoting is a method for a group, such as a meeting or an electorate, to make a collective decision or express an opinion, usually following discussions, debates or election campaigns. Democracies elect holders of high office by voting. Residents of a place represented by an elected official are called \"constituents\", and those constituents who cast a ballot for their chosen candidate are called \"voters\". There are different systems for collecting votes.\n\nIn a democracy, a government is chosen by voting in an election: a way for an electorate to elect, i.e. choose, among several candidates for rule. In a representative democracy \"voting\" is the method by which the electorate appoints its representatives in its government.\nIn a direct democracy, \"voting\" is the method by which the electorate directly make decisions, turn bills into laws, etc.\n\nA vote is a formal expression of an individual's choice for or against some motion (for example, a proposed resolution); for or against some ballot question; or for a certain candidate, selection of candidates, or political party. Many countries use a secret ballot, a practice to prevent voters from being intimidated and to protect their political privacy.\n\nVoting often takes place at a polling station; it is voluntary in some countries, compulsory in others, such as Australia.\n\nDifferent voting systems use different types of votes. Plurality voting does not require the winner to achieve a vote majority, or more than fifty percent of the total votes cast. In a voting system that uses a single vote per race, when more than two candidates run, the winner may commonly have less than fifty percent of the vote.\n\nA side effect of a single vote per race is vote splitting, which tends to elect candidates that do not support centrism, and tends to produce a two-party system. An alternative to a single-vote system is approval voting.\n\nTo understand why a single vote per race tends to favor less centric candidates, consider a simple lab experiment where students in a class vote for their favorite marble. If five marbles are assigned names and are placed \"up for election\", and if three of them are green, one is red, and one is blue, then a green marble will rarely win the election. The reason is that the three green marbles will split the votes of those who prefer green. In fact, in this analogy, the only way that a green marble is likely to win is if more than sixty percent of the voters prefer green. If the same percentage of people prefer green as those who prefer red and blue, that is to say if 33 percent of the voters prefer green, 33 percent prefer blue, and 33 percent prefer red, then each green marble will only get eleven percent of the vote, while the red and blue marbles will each get 33 percent, putting the green marbles at a serious disadvantage. If the experiment is repeated with other colors, the color that is in the majority will still rarely win. In other words, from a purely mathematical perspective, a single-vote system tends to favor a winner that is different from the majority. If the experiment is repeated using approval voting, where voters are encouraged to vote for as many candidates as they approve of, then the winner is much more likely to be any one of the five marbles, because people who prefer green will be able to vote for every one of the green marbles.\nA development on the 'single vote' system is to have two-round elections, or repeat first-past-the-post. This sytem is most common around the world. In most cases, the winner must receive a majority, which is more than half. and if no candidate obtains a majority at the first round, then the two candidates with the largest plurality are selected for the second round. Variants exist on these two points: the requirement for being elected at the first round is sometime less than 50%, and the rules for participation to the runoff may vary.\n\nAn alternative to the Two-round voting system is the single round instant-runoff voting system (Also referred to as \"Alternative vote\" or \"Preferential voting\") as used in some elections in Australia, Ireland and the USA. Voters rank each candidate in order of preference (1,2,3 etc.). Votes are distributed to each candidate according to the preferences allocated. If no single candidate has 50% or more votes than the candidate with the fewest votes is excluded and their votes redistributed according to the voters nominated order of preference. The process repeating itself until a candidate has 50% or more votes. The system is designed to produce the same result as an exhaustive ballot but using only a single round of voting.\n\nIn a voting system that uses a \"multiple vote\", the voter can vote for any subset of the alternatives. So, a voter might vote for Alice, Bob, and Charlie, rejecting Daniel and Emily. Approval voting uses such multiple votes.\n\nIn a voting system that uses a \"ranked vote\", the voter has to rank the alternatives in order of preference. For example, they might vote for Bob in first place, then Emily, then Alice, then Daniel, and finally Charlie. Ranked voting systems, such as those famously used in Australia, use a ranked vote.\n\nIn a voting system that uses a \"scored vote\" (or \"range vote\"), the voter gives each alternative a number between one and ten (the upper and lower bounds may vary). See cardinal voting systems.\n\nSome \"multiple-winner\" systems may have a single vote or one vote per elector per available position. In such a case the elector could vote for Bob and Charlie on a ballot with two votes. These types of systems can use ranked or unranked voting, and are often used for at-large positions such as on some city councils.\n\nMost of the time, when the citizens of a country are invited to vote, it is for an election. However, people can also vote in referendums and initiatives. Since the end of the eighteenth century, more than five hundred national referendums (including initiatives) were organised in the world; among them, more than three hundred were held in Switzerland. Australia ranked second with dozens of referendums.\n\nResults may lead at best to confusion, at worst to violence and even civil war, in the case of political rivals. Many alternatives may fall in the latitude of indifference—they are neither accepted nor rejected. Avoiding the choice that the most people strongly reject may sometimes be at least as important as choosing the one that they most favor.\n\nThere are social choice theory definitions of seemingly reasonable criteria that are a measure of the fairness of certain aspects of voting, including non-dictatorship, unrestricted domain, non-imposition, Pareto efficiency, and independence of irrelevant alternatives but Arrow's impossibility theorem states that no voting system can meet all these standards.\n\nNegative voting allows a vote that expresses disapproval of a candidate. For explanatory purposes, consider a hypothetical voting system that uses negative voting. In this system, one vote is allowed, with the choice of either for a candidate, or against a candidate. Each positive vote adds one to a candidate's overall total, while a negative vote subtracts one, arriving at a net favorability. The candidate with the highest net favorability is the winner. Note that not only is a negative total possible, but also, a candidate may even be elected with 0 votes if enough negative votes are cast against their opponents.\n\nUnder this implementation, negative voting is no different from a positive voting system, when only two candidates are on the ballot. However, in the case of three or more candidates, each negative vote for a candidate counts positively towards all of the other candidates.\n\nConsider the following example:\n\nThree candidates are running for the same seat. Two hypothetical election results are given, contrasting positive and negative voting. Both polling accuracy and voter turnout are assumed to be 100 percent.\n\nElection results with positive voting:\n\nA-voters, with the clear advantage of 40%, logically vote for Candidate A. B-voters, unconfident of their candidate's chances, split their votes exactly in half, giving both Candidates A and C 15% each. C-voters, also logically vote for their candidate. A is the winner with 55%, C at 45% and B 0%.\n\nElection results with negative voting:\n\nA-voters again, with the clear advantage of 40%, logically vote for Candidate A. B-voters again, split exactly in half. Each B-voter decides to vote negatively against their least favorite candidate, with the reasoning that this negative vote allows them to express approval for the two other candidates. C-voters also decide to vote negatively against Candidate A, reasoning along similar lines. Candidate B is the winner with 0 votes. Enough negative votes were cast against Candidate B's opponents, resulting in negative totals. Candidate A, despite having polled at 40%, winds up with -5%, offset due to the aggregate 45% of negative votes cast by B and C voters. Candidate C ends up with -15%.\n\nProxy voting is the type of voting where a registered citizen who is able to vote passes on his or her vote to a different voter or electorate legitimately.\n\nIn South Africa, there is a strong presence of anti-voting campaigns by poor citizens. They make the structural argument that no political party truly represents them. For instance, this resulted in the \"No Land! No House! No Vote!\" Campaign which becomes very prominent each time the country holds elections. The campaign is prominent among three of South Africa's largest social movements: the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign, Abahlali baseMjondolo, and the Landless Peoples Movement.\n\nOther social movements in other parts of the world also have similar campaigns or non-voting preferences. These include the Zapatista Army of National Liberation and various anarchist-oriented movements.\n\nIt is possible to make a blank vote, carrying out the act of voting, which may be compulsory, without selecting any candidate or option, often as an act of protest. In some jurisdictions, there is an official none of the above option and it is counted as a valid vote. Usually, blank and null votes are counted (together or separately) but are not considered valid.\n\nModern political science has questioned whether average citizens have sufficient political information to cast meaningful votes. A series of studies coming out of the University of Michigan in the 1950s and 1960s argued that voters lack a basic understanding of current issues, the liberal–conservative ideological dimension, and the relative ideological dilemma.\n\nStudies from other institutions have suggested that the physical appearance of candidates is a criterion upon which voters base their decision.\n\nChristadelphians, Jehovah's Witnesses, Old Order Amish, Rastafarians, the Assemblies of Yahweh, and some other religious groups, have a policy of not participating in politics through voting. Rabbis from all Jewish denominations encourage voting; some even consider it a religious obligation.\n\nWhenever several people who do not all agree need to make some decision, voting is a very common way of reaching a decision peacefully. The right to vote is usually restricted to certain people. Members of a society or club, or shareholders of a company, but not outsiders, may elect its officers, or adopt or change its rules, in a similar way to the election of people to official positions. A panel of judges, either formal judicial authorities or, say, judges of a competition, may make decisions by voting. A group of friends or members of a family may decide which film to see by voting. The method of voting can range from formal submission of written votes, through show of hands, voice voting or audience response systems, to informally noting which outcome seems to be preferred by more people.\n\nAccording to Robert's Rules of Order, a widely used guide to parliamentary procedure, the bases for determining the voting result consist of two elements: (1) the percentage of votes that are required for a proposal to be adopted or for a candidate to be elected (e.g. more than half, two-thirds, three-quarters, etc.); and (2) the set of members to which the proportion applies (e.g. the members present and voting, the members present, the entire membership of the organization, the entire electorate, etc.). An example is a majority vote of the members present and voting.\n\nThe voting result could also be determined using a plurality, or the most votes among the choices.\n\nIn addition, a decision could be made without a formal vote by using unanimous consent.\n\nA voting method is the way in which people cast their votes in an election or referendum. There are several different methods in use around the world.\n\nDeliberative assemblies—bodies that use parliamentary procedure to arrive at decisions—use several methods of voting on motions (formal proposal by a member or members of a deliberative assembly that the assembly take certain action). The regular methods of voting in such bodies are a voice vote, a rising vote, and a show of hands. Additional forms of voting include a recorded vote and balloting. The assembly could decide on the voting method by adopting a motion on it. Different legislatures may have their own voting methods.\n\nThe most common voting method uses paper ballots on which voters mark their preferences. This may involve marking their support for a candidate or party listed on the ballot, or a write-in, where they write out the name of their preferred candidate if it is not listed.\nAn alternative paper-based system known as ballot letters is used in Israel, where polling booths contain a tray with ballots for each party contesting the elections; the ballots are marked with the letter(s) assigned to that party. Voters are given an envelope into which they put the ballot of the party they wish to vote for, before placing the envelope in the ballot box.\n\nMachine voting uses voting machines, which may be manual (e.g. lever machines) or electronic. In Brazil, voters type in the number of the candidate they wish to vote for and then confirm their vote when the candidate's photo is displayed on screen.\n\nIn some countries people are allowed to vote online. Estonia was one of the first countries to use online voting: it was first used in the 2005 local elections.\n\nMany countries allow postal voting, where voters are sent a ballot and return it by post.\n\nIn contrast to a secret ballot, an open ballot takes place in public and is commonly done by a show of hands. An example is the Landsgemeinde system in Switzerland, which is still in use in the cantons of Appenzell Innerrhoden, Glarus, Grisons, and Schwyz.\n\nIn Gambia voting is carried out using marbles, a method introduced in 1965 to deal with illiteracy. Polling stations contain metal drums painted in party colours and emblems with candidates' photos attached to them. Voters are given a marble to place in the drum of their chosen candidate; when dropped into the drum, a bell sounds to register the vote. To avoid confusion, bicycles are banned near polling booths on election day. If the marble is left on top of the drum rather than placed in it, the vote is deemed invalid.\n\nA similar system used in social clubs sees voters given a white ball to indicate support and a black ball to indicate opposition. This led to the coining of the term blackballing.\n\nSome votes are carried in person if all the people eligible to vote are present. This could be by a show of hands or keypad polling.\n\n"}
