{"id": "4074523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4074523", "title": "Abrocomes", "text": "Abrocomes\n\nAbrocomes () was a son of king Darius I of Persia and his wife Phratagune, who died with his full brother Hyperanthes in the battle of Thermopylae, while fighting over the body of Leonidas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2999867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2999867", "title": "Antireligion", "text": "Antireligion\n\nAntireligion is opposition to religion of any kind. The term has been used to describe opposition to organized religion, religious practices or religious institutions. This term has also been used to describe opposition to specific forms of supernatural worship or practice, whether organized or not. Opposition to religion also goes beyond the misotheistic spectrum. As such, antireligion is distinct from deity-specific positions such as atheism (the denial of belief in deities) and antitheism (an opposition to belief in deities); although \"antireligionists\" may also be atheists or antitheists.\n\nAn early form of mass antireligion was expressed during the Enlightenment, as early as the 17th century. Baron d'Holbach's book \"Christianity Unveiled\" published in 1761, attacked not only Christianity but religion in general as an impediment to the moral advancement of humanity. According to historian Michael Burleigh, antireligion found its first mass expression of barbarity in revolutionary France as \"organised ... irreligion...an 'anti-clerical' and self-styled 'non-religious' state\" responded violently to religious influence over society. Christopher Hitchens was a well-known antireligionist and critic of religion of the 20th century who maintained opposition to religion, arguing that free expression and scientific discovery should replace religion as the method of teaching ethics and defining human civilization.\n\nThe Soviet Union adopted the political ideology of Marxism-Leninism and viewed religion as closely tied with foreign nationality. It thus directed varying degrees of antireligious efforts at varying faiths, depending on what threat they posed to the Soviet state, and their willingness to subordinate itself to political authority. These antireligious campaigns were directed at all faiths, including Christian, Islamic, Buddhist, Jewish, and Shamanist religions. In the 1930s, during the Stalinist period, the government destroyed church buildings or put them into secular use (as museums of religion and atheism, clubs or storage facilities), executed clergy, prohibited the publication of most religious material and persecuted some members of religious groups. Less violent attempts to reduce or eliminate the influence of religion in society were also carried out at other times in Soviet history. For instance, it was usually necessary to be an atheist in order to acquire any important political position or any prestigious scientific job; thus many people became atheists in order to advance their careers. In the years of 1921-1950, some estimate that 15 million Christians were killed in the Soviet Union. Up to 500,000 Russian Orthodox Christians were persecuted by the Soviet government, not including other religious groups. The Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic targeted numerous clergy for arrest and interrogation as enemies of the state, and many churches, mosques, and synagogues were converted to secular uses.\nThe People's Republic of Albania had an objective for the eventual elimination of all religion in Albania with the goal of creating an atheist nation, which it declared it had achieved in 1967. In 1976, Albania implemented a constitutional ban on religious activity and propaganda. The government nationalised most property of religious institutions and used it for non-religious purposes, such as cultural centers for young people. Religious literature was banned. Many clergy and theists were tried, tortured, and executed. All foreign Roman Catholic clergy were expelled in 1946. Albania was the only country that ever officially banned religion.\n\nAuthorities in the People's Republic of Romania aimed to move towards an atheistic society, in which religion would be considered as the ideology of the bourgeoisie; the régime also set to propagate among the laboring masses in science, politics and culture to help them fight superstition and mysticism, and initiated an anti-religious campaign aimed at reducing the influence of religion in society. After the communist takeover in 1948, some church personnel were imprisoned for political crimes.\n\nThe Khmer Rouge attempted to eliminate Cambodia's cultural heritage, including its religions, particularly Theravada Buddhism. Over the four years of Khmer Rouge rule, at least 1.5 million Cambodians perished. Of the sixty thousand Buddhist monks that previously existed, only three thousand survived the Khmer Rouge horror.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "141841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=141841", "title": "Arthur Honegger", "text": "Arthur Honegger\n\nArthur Honegger (; 10 March 1892 – 27 November 1955) was a Swiss composer, who was born in France and lived a large part of his life in Paris. He was a member of Les Six. His most frequently performed work is probably the orchestral work \"Pacific 231\", which was inspired by the sound of a steam locomotive.\n\nBorn Oscar-Arthur Honegger (the first name was never used) to Swiss parents in Le Havre, France, he initially studied harmony and violin in Le Havre. After studying for two years at the Zurich Conservatory he enrolled in the Paris Conservatoire from 1911 to 1918, studying with both Charles-Marie Widor and Vincent d'Indy. He made his Paris compositional debut in 1916 and in 1918 wrote the ballet \"Le dit des jeux du monde\", generally considered to be his first characteristic work. In 1926 he married Andrée Vaurabourg, a pianist and fellow student at the Paris Conservatoire, on the condition that they live in separate apartments. They lived apart for the duration of their marriage, with the exceptions of one year from 1935 to 1936 following Vaurabourg's injury in a car accident, and the last year of Honegger's life, when he was not well enough to live alone. They had one daughter, Pascale, born in 1932. Honegger also had a son, Jean-Claude (1926–2003), with the singer Claire Croiza.\n\nIn the early 1920s, Honegger shot to fame with his \"dramatic psalm\" \"Le Roi David\" (King David), which is still in the choral repertoire. Between World War I and World War II, Honegger was very prolific. He composed the music for Abel Gance's epic 1927 film, \"Napoléon\". He composed nine ballets and three vocal stage works, amongst other works. One of those stage works, \"Jeanne d'Arc au bûcher\" (1935), a \"dramatic oratorio\" (to words by Paul Claudel), is thought of as one of his finest works. In addition to his pieces written alone, he collaborated with Jacques Ibert on both an opera, \"L'Aiglon\" (1937), and an operetta. During this time period he also wrote \"Danse de la chèvre\" (1921), an essential piece of flute repertoire. Dedicated to René Le Roy and written for flute alone, this piece is lively and charming, but with the same directness of all Honegger's work.\n\nHonegger always remained in touch with Switzerland, his parents' country of origin, until the outbreak of the war and the invasion of the Nazis made it impossible for him to leave Paris. He joined the French Resistance and was generally unaffected by the Nazis themselves, who allowed him to continue his work without too much interference. He also taught composition at the École Normale de Musique de Paris, where his students included Yves Ramette. However, he was greatly depressed by the war. Between its outbreak and his death, he wrote his last four symphonies (numbers two to five) which are among the most powerful symphonic works of the 20th century. Of these, the second, for strings, featuring a solo trumpet which plays a chorale tune by Bach in the final movement, and the third, subtitled \"Symphonie Liturgique\" with three movements that evoke the Requiem Mass (Dies irae, De profundis clamavi and Dona nobis pacem), are probably the best known. Written in 1946 just after the end of the war, it has parallels with Benjamin Britten's \"Sinfonia da Requiem\" of 1940. In contrast with this work is the lyrical, nostalgic Symphony No. 4, subtitled \"Deliciae Basilienses\" (\"The Delights of Basel\"), written as a tribute to days of relaxation spent in that Swiss city during the war.\n\nHonegger was widely known as a train enthusiast, and once notably said: \"I have always loved locomotives passionately. For me they are living creatures and I love them as others love women or horses.\" His \"mouvement symphonique\" \"Pacific 231\" (a depiction of a steam locomotive) gained him early notoriety in 1923.\n\nMany of Honegger's works were championed by his longtime friend Georges Tzipine, who conducted the premiere recordings of some of them (\"Cris du Monde\" oratorio, \"Nicolas de Flüe\").\n\nIn 1953 he wrote his last composition, \"A Christmas Cantata\". After a protracted illness, he died at home in Paris of a heart attack on 27 November 1955 and was interred in the Saint-Vincent Cemetery in the Montmartre Quarter.\n\nThe principal elements of Honegger's style are: Bachian counterpoint, driving rhythms, melodic amplitude, highly coloristic harmonies, an impressionistic use of orchestral sonorities, and a concern for formal architecture. His style is weightier and more solemn than that of his colleagues in Les Six. Far from reacting against German romanticism as the other members of Les Six did, Honegger's mature works show evidence of a distinct influence by it. Despite the differences in their styles, he and fellow Les Six member Darius Milhaud were close friends, having studied together at the Paris Conservatoire. Milhaud dedicated his fourth string quintet to Honegger's memory, while Francis Poulenc similarly dedicated his Clarinet Sonata.\n\nHonegger was pictured on the Swiss twenty franc banknote (eighth series), issued October 1996 and replaced in 2017.\n\nHonegger's symphonic movement \"Rugby\" was recorded with him conducting the Paris Symphony Orchestra in a 1929 electrical recording, which can be heard on YouTube. Many of Honegger's recordings as conductor of his music have been reissued on CD by Pearl and Dutton.\n\nOpus numbers originate from the complete catalogue by Harry Halbreich. For a longer list of compositions, see List of compositions by Arthur Honegger. For a list of select recordings, see Arthur Honegger discography.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43944757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43944757", "title": "Bill Benson (rugby league)", "text": "Bill Benson (rugby league)\n\nWilliam Henry 'Bill' Benson (1893-1968) was an Australian rugby league player of the 1910s and 1920s.\n\nBill \"Binghi\" Benson was a pioneer halfback in the early years of the NSWRFL. He played halfback for the Glebe Dirty Reds for ten seasons between 1916-1924. He then switched to St George Dragons for his final season with his Glebe team-mate Frank Burge, and the two of them took St George to the 1927 Final after the club got the wooden spoon the year before. He represented New South Wales on five occasions between 1921-1924, but was never selected to play for Australia.\n\nA resident of Forest Lodge, New South Wales for his entire life, Bill Benson died after watching a world cup match between Australia and England at the Sydney Cricket Ground on 25 May 1968. He was aged 75. His funeral was held two days later and he was cremated at Woronora Crematorium, Sutherland, New South Wales \n"}
{"id": "26415811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26415811", "title": "COLD-PCR", "text": "COLD-PCR\n\nCOLD-PCR (co-amplification at lower denaturation temperature-PCR) is a modified Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) protocol that enriches variant alleles from a mixture of wildtype and mutation-containing DNA. The ability to preferentially amplify and identify minority alleles and low-level somatic DNA mutations in the presence of excess wildtype alleles is useful for the detection of mutations. Detection of mutations is important in the case of early cancer detection from tissue biopsies and body fluids such as blood plasma or serum, assessment of residual disease after surgery or chemotherapy, disease staging and molecular profiling for prognosis or tailoring therapy to individual patients, and monitoring of therapy outcome and cancer remission or relapse. Common PCR will amplify both the major (wildtype) and minor (mutant) alleles with the same efficiency, occluding the ability to easily detect the presence of low-level mutations. The capacity to detect a mutation in a mixture of variant/wildtype DNA is valuable because this mixture of variant DNAs can occur when provided with a heterogeneous sample – as is often the case with cancer biopsies. Currently, traditional PCR is used in tandem with a number of different downstream assays for genotyping or the detection of somatic mutations. These can include the use of amplified DNA for RFLP analysis, MALDI-TOF (matrix-assisted laser-desorption–time-of-flight) genotyping, or direct sequencing for detection of mutations by Sanger sequencing or pyrosequencing. Replacing traditional PCR with COLD-PCR for these downstream assays will increase the reliability in detecting mutations from mixed samples, including tumors and body fluids.\n\nThe underlying principle of COLD-PCR is that single nucleotide mismatches will slightly alter the melting temperature (Tm) of the double-stranded DNA. Depending on the sequence context and position of the mismatch, Tm changes of 0.2-1.5 °C (0.36-2.7 °F). are common for sequences up to 200bp or higher. Knowing this the authors of the protocol took advantage of two observations:\n\nKeeping these principles in mind the authors developed the following general protocol:\n\nThere are two forms of COLD-PCR that have been developed to date. Full COLD-PCR and Fast COLD-PCR.\nFull COLD-PCR is identical to the protocol outlined above. These five stages are used for each round of amplification.\n\nFast COLD-PCR differs from Full COLD-PCR in that the denaturation and intermediate annealing stages are skipped. This is because, in some cases, the preferential amplification of the mutant DNA is so great that ensuring the formation of the mutant/wildtype heteroduplex DNA is not needed. Thus the denaturation can occur at the Tc, proceed to primer annealing, and then polymerase-mediated extension. Each round of amplification will include these three stages in that order. By utilizing the lower denaturation temperature, the reaction will discriminate towards the products with the lower Tm – i.e. the variant alleles. Fast COLD-PCR produces much faster results due to the shortened protocol. However, it is important to note that Full COLD-PCR is essential for amplification of all possible mutations in the starting mixture of DNA.\n\nTwo-round COLD-PCR is a modified version of Fast COLD-PCR. During the second round of Fast COLD-PCR nested primers are used. This improves the sensitivity of mutation detection compared to one-round Fast COLD-PCR.\n\nCOLD-PCR has been used to improve the reliability of a number of different assays that traditionally use conventional PCR.\nA restriction fragment length polymorphism results in the cleavage (or absence thereof) of DNA for a specific mutation by a selected restriction enzyme that will not cleave the wildtype DNA. In a study using a mixture of wildtype and mutation containing DNA amplified by regular PCR or COLD-PCR, COLD-PCR preceding RFLP analysis was shown to improve the mutation detection by 10-20 fold.\n\nSanger sequencing recently was used to evaluate the enrichment of mutant DNA from a mixture of 1:20 mutant:wildtype DNA. The variant DNA containing a mutation was obtained from a breast cancer cell line known to contain p53 mutations. Comparison of Sanger sequencing chromatograms indicated that the mutant allele was enriched 13 fold when COLD-PCR was used compared to traditional PCR alone. This was determined by the size of the peaks on the chromatogram at the variant allele location.\n\nAs well, COLD-PCR was used to detect p53 mutations from lung-adenocarcinoma samples. The study was able to detect 8 low level (under 20% abundance) mutations that would likely have been missed using conventional methods that don’t enrich for variant sequence DNA .\n\nSimilar to its use in direct Sanger sequencing, with pyrosequencing COLD-PCR was shown to be capable of detecting mutations that had a prevalence 0.5-1% from the samples used. COLD-PCR was used to detect p53 and KRAS mutations by pyrosequencing, and was shown to outperform conventional PCR in both cases.\n\nThe same research group that developed COLD-PCR and used it to compare the sensitivity of regular PCR for genotyping with direct Sanger sequencing, RFLP, and pyrosequencing, also ran a similar study using MALDI-TOF as a downstream application for detecting mutations. Their results indicated that COLD-PCR could enrich mutation sequences from a mixture of DNA by 10-100 fold and that mutations with an initial prevalence of 0.1-0.5% would be detectable. Compared to the 5-10% low-level detection rate expected with traditional PCR.\n\nCOLD-PCR run on a quantitative PCR machine, using TaqMan probes specific for a mutation, was shown to increase the measured difference between mutant and wildtype samples.\n\n\n\nCOLD-PCR was originally described by Li \"et al.\" in a Nature Medicine paper published in 2008 from Dr. Mike Makrigiorgos’s lab group at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute of Harvard Medical School. As summarized above, the technology has been used in a number of proof-of-principle experiments and medical research diagnostic experiments.\n\nRecently, the COLD-PCR technology has been licensed by Transgenomic, Inc. The licensing terms include the exclusive rights to commercialize the technology combined with Sanger sequencing. The plans are to develop commercial applications that will allow for rapid high-sensitivity detection of low-level somatic and mitochondrial DNA mutations.\n\nOther technologies are available for the detection of minority DNA mutations, and these methods can be segregated into their ability to enrich for and detect either known or unknown mutations.\n"}
{"id": "37537143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37537143", "title": "Capital punishment in the Bahamas", "text": "Capital punishment in the Bahamas\n\nCapital punishment in the Bahamas is a legal punishment, and is conducted by hanging at Fox Hill Prison. The last execution in the country was on January 6, 2000. As of August 2012 only one convict, Mario Flowers, was under the sentence of death. Flowers' death sentence was commuted in 2016. Since independence from Britain, it has held more than a dozen executions.\n\nThis list is currently complete from 1976.\n"}
{"id": "7846078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7846078", "title": "Davidsbündler", "text": "Davidsbündler\n\nThe Davidsbündler (League of David) was a music society created by Robert Schumann in his writings. It was inspired by literary societies, real and imagined ones, such as the \"Serapionsbrüder\" (The Serapion Brethren) of ETA Hoffmann. The group was created to defend the cause of contemporary music against its detractors. Its two main members were supposed to be named Florestan and Eusebius, respectively symbolising the extroverted and introspective sides of his personality. \n\nThe name \"Davidsbündler\" already appears in Schumann's first musical essay, \"The Davidsbündler\" which was published in Karl Herloßsohn’s newspaper \"Der Komet\" (The Comet) in December 1833. Its narrator finds a paper shred thrown out of a window by a \"Swedish head with a crooked nose\" bearing the following message on its backside: \"Finder! To the Good and to the Great you have been chosen! Davidsbündler you shall become, [you shall] translate the secrets of the Society of the World, i.e. of the society, which shall swat the Philistines, musical and otherwise! Here you know all – take action then! By no means organize provincially however, but deliver wildly and crazily! Master Raro, Florestan, Eusebius, Friedrich, Bg., St., Hf., Knif, bellows treader at St. Georg.\" The continuation of this \"Davidsbündler\" fantasizing can be found in the \"Neue Zeitschrift für Musik\", which Schumann founded in April 1834.\n\nIn the same year 1834 Schumann composed three pieces carrying the titles \"Florestan\", \"Eusebius\" and \"Marche des Davidsbündler contre les Philistins\" in his \"Carnaval\".\n\nIn 1837 Schumann wrote a piano suite, \"Davidsbündlertänze\", Op. 6, named after the Davidsbündler.\n\n"}
{"id": "33783068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33783068", "title": "Death of Cristina and Violetta Djeordsevic", "text": "Death of Cristina and Violetta Djeordsevic\n\nCristina and Violetta Djeordsevic or Ebrehmovich were Italian Roma sisters aged 13 and 11 who drowned in the sea at the public beach at Torregaveta in the Metropolitan City of Naples on 19 July 2008. News media circulated photographs of other beach users apparently continuing with their leisure activities indifferent to the nearby bodies of the girls partially covered by beach towels. Commentators interpreted this as symbolising widespread anti-Roma sentiment in Italy.\n\nCristina and Violetta were born and raised in the \"Campo Autorizzato\" (authorised Roma camp) at Scampia or Secondigliano in Naples to Branko and Miriana Djeordsevic, originally from former Yugoslavia and of Eastern Orthodox faith. On the day of their deaths, Cristina and Violetta with their sister Diana (aged 9) and cousin Manuela (aged 16) took the Cumana railway from the camp to its terminus at Torregaveta, beside a popular public beach next to private beaches. The beach is divided between the suburban \"comuni\" of Bacoli and Monte di Procida. The girls were hawking trinkets to holidaymakers and also, according to some reports, begging. \n\nThe four girls decided to enter the sea, despite rough waves and not knowing how to swim. The sea at the beach has dangerous currents and there had been at least 10 drownings in the previous 15 years. There was no lifeguard or warning notices; the area is poor and public funds were scarce. One eyewitness said nobody else was in the water at the time. Cristina and Violetta were further out and were swept underwater against rocks. Manuela and Diana called for help, and lifeguards from nearby private beaches arrived. The coastguard arrived within 10 minutes but the girls had drowned, so they notified the municipal morgue and left. The police took away the surviving girls to contact their parents. A beach towel covered each corpse except for the feet.\n\nA \"crowd of curious onlookers that had formed around the bodies quickly dispersed\". The bodies remained on the beach until the morgue personnel arrived, after an interval variously reported as one or three hours. During this time, \"beach life resumed\" with people sunbathing, picnicking, or playing. Eventually the bodies were placed in coffins and carried away.\n\nPhotographs were published on the front pages of \"La Repubblica\" and \"Corriere della Sera\", as well as online and in foreign media. One showed the girls' corpses with a couple having a picnic in the background; another a coffin being carried past people in sunloungers. Italians described as having condemned the scene included the \"liberal elite\", newspapers, and civil liberties groups, as well as Cardinal Crescenzio Sepe, the Archbishop of Naples, who posted on his blog that it represented the \"coarsening of human sentiment\". Laura Boldrini, Italy's UNHCR representative, expressed \"worry at the circumstances of how the tragedy unfolded\".\n\nCommentators linked the incident to a recent upsurge in anti-Roma populist discourse, including confrontations in working-class neighbourhoods and sensationalist media coverage of alleged Roma criminality. In May rumours that a Roma woman had abducted a baby led to violence and arson in two Roma camps in Naples. Roberto Maroni, the Minister of the Interior in the Berlusconi-led government, had announced a scheme to register all Roma by photograph or fingerprint. An ongoing garbage collection strike was also souring the public mood in Naples. Agence France-Presse said Italians had made \"little reaction to the outcry\", and that Cardinal Sepe was \"alone among leading figures to condemn the sunbathers' apparent indifference\".\n\nFrancesco Iannuzzi, mayor of Monte di Procida, blamed the incident on the delay in the morgue staff arriving at the scene; he denied the charge of indifference on the basis that many had tried to save the girls; he doubted whether the crowd could have known the girls' ethnicity. Sergio Romano, while acknowledging the crowd's indifference, like Iannuzzi questioned the racist dimension, pointing out a similar instance of a non-Roma body on a beach in northern Italy in 1997. One of the photographers asked of the beachgoers, \"what were they supposed to do?\" An article in \"Nanni Magazine\" suggested that foreshortening in the published photographs made the beachgoers appear closer to the bodies than was the case. Some locals said that those who remained on the beach were \"Ukrainians or Poles\".\n\nThe girls were given an Orthodox funeral service in the Roma camp in Naples, attended by 300 Roma and city and regional representatives. It was followed by a 10-day wake. They were buried in Qualiano cemetery. The local Catholic parish and the Community of Sant'Egidio organised a memorial mass at nearby Ercolano on 23 July \"to send a message of love and solidarity\". A meeting of Naples \"comune\" council agreed unanimously to name a street after the girls. Sant'Egidio held anniversary prayer services in later years.\n\nRoberto Malini of human rights body EveryOne Group cast doubt on the official version of events, suggesting a cover up for homicide. The girls' mother denied this and insisted that they had drowned. In October 2009, the girls' next of kin brought a lawsuit against Bacoli and Monte di Procida municipalities for failure to provide the required marine safety measures at the beach.\n\n\"SEPSA — Spettatori all'esequie di passeggeri senz'anima\", a 2009 play by , is based on two events: the Torregaveta drownings and the death, also in Naples, of Petru Bîrlădeanu, a Romanian street musician killed by crossfire in a Camorra shootout.\n\n"}
{"id": "1708182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1708182", "title": "Designer baby", "text": "Designer baby\n\nA designer baby is a human embryo which has been genetically modified, usually following guidelines set by the parent or scientist, to produce desirable traits. This is done using various methods, such as germline engineering or preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD). This technology is the subject of ethical debate, bringing up the concept of genetically modified \"superhumans\" to interbreed with and eventually replace modern humans.\n\nIn medicine and (clinical) genetics pre-implantation genetic diagnosis (PGD or PIGD) (also known as embryo screening) is a procedure performed on embryos prior to implantation, sometimes even on oocytes prior to fertilization. The methods of PGD help to identify and locate genetic defects in early embryos that were conceived through in vitro fertilization (IVF). The IVF procedure is carried out by the removal of one or two cells when the embryo is at a specific stage in development. The PGD uses the IVF technique to obtain oocytes or embryos for evaluation of the organism's genome.\n\nThe PGD procedures allow scientists to identify damaged or mutated genes associated with diseases in the oocytes or embryos by using in-situ hybridization (ISH). The ISH technique labels specific nucleic acid sequences on a gene that can help detect genetic abnormalities.\n\nConversely, this technique can also help select for desirable traits by avoiding implanting embryos with genes that have serious diseases or disabilities. Examples of desirable traits that could be selected would be increased muscle mass, voice pitch, or high intelligence. Overall, the procedure of PGD to select for a positive trait is referred to the creation of a \"designer baby\".\n\nThis is not a new technology - the first PGD babies, and thus also the first designer babies were created in 1989 and born in 1990.\n\nA 2012 article by Carolyn Abraham in \"The Globe and Mail\" stated that \"Recent breakthroughs have made it possible to scan every chromosome in a single embryonic cell, to test for genes involved in hundreds of 'conditions,' some of which are clearly life-threatening while others are less dramatic and less certain\". There is already a \"microchip that can test a remarkable 1,500 genetic traits at once, including heart disease, seasonal affective disorder, obesity, athletic ability, hair and eye color, height, susceptibility to alcohol and nicotine addictions, lactose intolerance and one of several genes linked to intelligence. It is still difficult to get enough DNA for such extensive testing but the chip designer thinks this technical problem will be solved soon.\n\nPGD has been used primarily for medical purposes, but as the possibilities of the procedure increase the idea of non-medical uses has become a popular topic of debate. Non-medical motivations could lead to potential problems when trying to make the distinction of when the procedure is needed or desired.\n\nFor example, PGD has the ability to select an embryo based on gender preferences (Stankovic). Since changing a gender is not needed, but desired this could cause much controversy. Additionally, the procedure is able to create a donor offspring or a “savior sibling”, which can assist a pre-existing offspring for medical purposes. The “savior sibling” is a brother or sister that is created to donate life-saving tissue to an existing child. There has been arguments against the procedures of “savior siblings” because many believe that this will lead humans closer to the creation of designer babies. For example, one critique said, “the new technique is a dangerous first step towards allowing parents to use embryo testing to choose other characteristics of the baby, such as eye colour and sex”.\n\nThe artificial selection of traits through the use of PGD has become a widely debated topic and governments have started to regulate this procedure.\n\nMany countries completely prohibit PGD, including Austria, Germany, Ireland, and Switzerland. Other countries restrict PGD to medical use only, including Belgium, France, Greece, Netherlands, Italy, Norway, and the United Kingdom.\n\nIn contrast, the United States federal law does not have any regulation of PGD. Those who are in favor of PGD believe the government should not be involved in the procedure and parents should have a reproductive choice. The opposing side has argued that PGD will allow embryo selection based on trivial traits. While other critics believe that this procedure could lead to a new form of Eugenics.\n\nThe regulation of PGD has become an important topic, however much of the artificial trait selection remains only prospective until technology advances. For example, scientist do not know which specific gene is associated with specific traits, like voice pitch or intelligence. Nevertheless, with the current rate of technological advancements, it is believed that in the next twenty years the artificial selection of desirable traits will exist.\n\nThe other use for \"designer babies\" concerns possible uses of human germline engineering techniques (such as CRISPR) to create desired genetic traits of a child, such as disease resistance, athletic ability, and intelligence.\n\nGenetics explains the process of parents passing down certain genes to their children. Genes are inherited from both biological parents, and each gene expresses a specific trait. The traits expressed by genes can be something physically seen—such as hair color, eye color, or height—or can be things such as diseases and disorders.\n\nHuman genes are found within chromosomes. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes, 46 individual chromosomes. 23 chromosomes are inherited from the father, and 23 from the mother. Each chromosome can carry about 20,000 genes.\n\nResearchers have already connected the genes in the striped zebra fish which control the colour of the fish to genes in humans that determine skin colour. Many other things could be discovered in further years especially with the new possibilities of cloning animals.\n\nScientists have been able to better understand the genetic traits of humans through projects such as The Human Genome Project. This project was launched around 1990 and was an international research project that had an end goal of mapping and understanding every gene in the human body. As a part of the Human Genome Project, we have been able to pin point specific locations for about 12,800 specific genes within different chromosomes.\n\nIn recent times, the cost of gene sequencing has been radically reduced due to technological developments such as next generation sequencing. This enables the development of Biobanks that can store genetic information about a large number of people, enabling studies such as Genome-wide association study on genetic variants that cause common phenotypic traits in many people.\n\nGermline modification has been around since the 1980s, as there have been successful animal trials dating back to that time. In order for germline modification to be successful, medical professionals must know how to introduce a gene into the patient's’ cell and the germline so that it will be transferred subsequent generations and still maintain the proper functionality. The way in which genes are integrated into the DNA is what determines that difference between germline modification and somatic cell modification. In order to be transferred to subsequent generations, these changes need to be carried out through the development of germ cells. Changes in the germline result in permanent and heritable changes to the DNA. While amplification of positive effects would occur, there is also the risk that amplification of possible negative effects would also occur. Since the results are generational, it is more complicated to study the long-term effects and therefore it is not a simple task to figure out if the benefits of germline modification outweigh the harm. Allowing families to have the ability to design their children and select for desirable traits is another major concern that germline modification presents.\n\nGermline modification can be accomplished through different techniques that focus on modification of the germinal epithelium, germ cells, or the fertilized egg. Most of the techniques include transporting transgenes and then the transgenes are integrated with the DNA of the zygote. After integration, the transgene becomes a stable and functioning portion of the host’s genome. One technique involves a specific sequence of cloned DNA being inserted into the fertilized egg using the microinjection technique. The sequence is inserted directly into the pronucleus. The second technique uses the transfection process. Stem cells obtained from the embryo during the blastocysts stage are modified, combined with naked DNA, and the resulting cell is reinserted into the embryo that is developing. The third technique focuses on carrying DNA into the embryo by using retroviruses.\n\nGene therapy is the use of DNA as a pharmaceutical agent to treat disease. Gene therapy was first conceptualized in 1972, with the authors urging caution before commencing gene therapy studies in humans. The first FDA-approved gene therapy experiment in the United States occurred in 1990, on a four-year-old girl named, Ashanti DeSilva, she was treated for ADA-SCID. This is a disease that had left her defenseless against infections spreading throughout her body. Dr. W French Anderson was a major lead on this clinical trial, he worked for the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute Since then, over 1,700 clinical trials have been conducted using a number of techniques for gene therapy.\n\nThe techniques used in gene therapy, which are also referred to as vectors, have a method of using a healthy gene to attack and replace an infected gene. The number of techniques or vectors that have been used to conduct these clinical trials vary. A few of the techniques are basic processing, gene doping, and viral vectors. Viral infections can be life-threatening in patients who are immune-compromised because they cannot mount an effective immune response. Approaches to protection from infection using gene therapy include T cell-based immunotherapy, stem-cell based therapy, genetic vaccines, and other approaches to genetic blockade of infection. There are also other approaches known as T cell-based approaches, cell therapy, stem-cell-based approaches, and genetic vaccines.\n\nBasic processing can be achieved through replacement of a mutated gene, inactivation of a mutated gene, or introduction of a new gene to help fight a disease caused by mutation. Secondly, gene doping is a procedure of gene therapy that modulates gene expression of a particular gene. This procedure is mainly used to improve athletic ability for sporting events. This is a genetic form of human enhancement that is able to treat muscle-wasting disorders. It is a highly controversial procedure because the results do nothing unusual to the bloodstream, so athletic officials would be unable to detect chemicals in a blood or urine test. An example of gene doping would be proving athlete with erythropoietin (EPO), a hormone that increases the red blood cell count. Lastly, viral vectors are able to mimic the methods of a normal virus in the human body to introduce favorable genes into a human cell. For instance, scientists are able to positively change the host's genome by removing the genes that cause disease from a virus and replacing it with genes of the desired trait (“Types of Gene Therapy”).\n\nThe aforementioned techniques have been used by scientists, but the most popularized techniques are naked DNA and DNA complexes. The injection of the naked DNA is the simplest form of the vector delivery method. The naked DNA is a histone-free, modified DNA sequence that removes proteins that would normally surround these structures. This form of delivery is sometimes used as a natural compound, but the United States has been making large waves of synthetic compounds for gene delivery. The other form, which is DNA complexes, has been used when a compound is crossed with a chemical mix in order to produce the desired compound. There are other studies that are currently underway that have been referred to as the hybrid method because there is a combination of two or more gene therapy techniques used. This can instill the idea that the desired gene will stick during the delivery, transfer, and implant.\n\nThe manipulation of an organism’s genome for a desirable trait is related to the medical procedure of cloning. The process of cloning results in making genetically identical organisms. Moreover, scientists can use gene therapy vectors to modify the DNA to be identical to a particular organism. Moreover, the techniques established by the field of gene therapy can potentially be used to create “designer babies”. This can be achieved through the use of IVF to assist in creating a genetically designed baby.\n\nGene therapy is being studied for the treatment of a wide variety of acquired and inherited disorders. Retroviruses, adenoviruses, poxviruses, herpesviruses, and others are being engineered to serve as gene therapy vectors and are being administered to patients in a clinical setting. Some of the other genetic disorders that could potentially be implemented in clinical trials are ADA-SCID, which as stated earlier is severe combined immune deficiency CGD which is a chronic granulomatous disorder, and haemophilia. These examples of disorders are only a few among numerous others that are being discovered. Some of the acquired diseases that can be potentially controlled in a clinical trial with gene therapy are cancer and neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease or Huntington's disease.\n\nLee Silver has projected a dystopia in which a race of superior humans look down on those without genetic enhancements, though others have counseled against accepting this vision of the future. It has also been suggested that if designer babies were created through genetic engineering, that this could have deleterious effects on the human gene pool. Some futurists claim that it would put the human species on a path to participant evolution. It has also been argued that designer babies may have an important role as counter-acting an argued dysgenic trend.\n\nThere are risks associated with genetic modifications to any organism. When focusing on the ethics behind this treatment, medical professionals and clinical ethicists take many factors into consideration. They look at whether or not the goal and outcome of the treatment are supposed to impact an individual and their family lineage or a group of people. The main ethical issue with pure germline modification is that these types of treatments will produce a change that can be passed down to future generations and therefore any error, known or unknown, will also be passed down and will affect the offspring. New diseases may be introduced accidentally.\n\nThe use of germline modification is justified when it is used to correct genetic problems that cannot be treated with somatic cell therapy, stabilize DNA in a mating that has the potential to be high risk, provide an alternative to the abortion of embryos that genetically problematic for a family, and intensify the incidence of genes that are favorable and desirable. This can ultimately lead to perfected lineages on a genotypic level and possibly a phenotypic level. Ultimately, these issues raise potential questions about the welfare and identity of individuals that have been genetically modified through the germline.\n\nSafety is a major concern when it comes to the gene editing and mitochondrial transfer. Since the effects of germline modification can be passed down to multiple generations, experimentation of this treatment brings forth many questions and concerns about the ethics of completing this research. If a patient has undergone germline modification treatment, the coming generations, one or two after the initial treatment, will be used as trials to see if the changes in the germline have been successful. This extended waiting time could possess harmful implications since the effect of the treatment is not known until it has been passed down to a few generations. Problems with the gene editing may not appear until after the child with edited genes is born. If the patient assumes the risk alone, consent may be given for the treatment, but it is less justified when it comes to giving consent for future generations. On a larger scale, germline modification has the potential to impact the gene pool of the entire human race in a negative or positive way. Germline modification is considered a more ethically and morally acceptable treatment when a patient is a carrier for a harmful trait and is treated to improve the genotype and safety of the future generations. When the treatment is used for this purpose, it can fill the gaps that other technologies may not be able to accomplish.\n\nSince experimentation of the germline occurs directly on embryos, there is a major ethical deliberation on experimenting with fertilized eggs and embryos and killing the flawed ones. The embryo cannot give consent and some of the treatments have long-lasting and harmful implications. In many countries, editing embryos and germline modification for reproductive use is illegal. As of 2017, the United States of America restricts the use of germline modification and the procedure is under heavy regulation by the FDA and NIH. The American National Academy of Sciences and National Academy of Medicine gave qualified support to human genome editing in 2017 once answers have been found to safety and efficiency problems \"but only for serious conditions under stringent oversight.\" Germline modification would be more practical if sampling methods were less destructive and used the polar bodies rather than embryos.\n\nAnother risk involved with having a designer baby is the lack of regulation of egg freezing centers as shown by failures in egg clinics at the Pacific Fertility Clinic in San Francisco and at the Ahuja Medical Center in Beachwood Ohio. Both of these centers lost hundreds of eggs after some of the tanks holding the eggs failed. Egg freezing centers are not required to report their failures to any government agency and don't have to tell the public unless a negative news report comes out about the incident. One of these facilities already knew that the tank that malfunctioned had issues long before, and the eggs were supposed to be transferred from the defective tank but they never were.\n\nIn 2018, the Nuffield Council on Bioethics issued a report which concluded that under certain circumstances, editing of the DNA of human embryos could be acceptable. The Nuffield Council is a British independent organisation that evaluates ethical questions in medicine and biology.\n\n"}
{"id": "23259443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23259443", "title": "Euthanasia in New Zealand", "text": "Euthanasia in New Zealand\n\nEuthanasia is illegal in New Zealand. Two attempts at passing legislation to legalise euthanasia failed to get through Parliament. It is also illegal to 'aid and abet suicide' under Section 179 of the New Zealand Crimes Act 1961. The clauses of this act make it an offence to 'incite, procure or counsel' and 'aid and abet' someone else to commit suicide, regardless of whether a suicide attempt is made or not. Section 179 covers both assisted suicide and true suicide, such as that caused by bullying.\n\nThe controversial book \"The Peaceful Pill Handbook\" describing how to perform euthanasia was initially banned in New Zealand. Since May 2008 it has been allowed for sale to readers over eighteen years of age, if it is sealed and an indication of the censorship classification is displayed. In addition, author Philip Nitschke excised a section that dealt specifically with methods of suicide, which might otherwise have fallen afoul of Section 179.\nPatients are able to withhold treatment if it may shorten their life and advance directives are recognised by law.\n\nRight 7 of the Code of Health and Disability Services Consumers' Rights states:\n\nThis code is enshrined in law under the Health and Disability Commissioner Act 1994.\n\nThe New Zealand Medical Association oppose voluntary euthanasia and doctor assisted suicide maintaining that it is unethical regardless of whether the patient or relatives wishes to have it carried out.\n\nA survey done by Massey University in 2003 showed that 73% wanted assisted suicide legalised if it was performed by a doctor, but if done by others support dropped to 49%. The wording of the questions were:\n\nA survey carried out on behalf of the Voluntary Euthanasia Society in 2008 showed that 71% of New Zealanders want to have it legalised.\nThe question read:\n\nThe 2008 survey by Massey University gave similar results.\n\nIn 2015 a 3 News/Reid Research poll showed 71% want the law changed with 24% opposed.\n\n The Anglican Church in Aotearoa, New Zealand and Polynesia, part of the Anglican Communion is the second largest church in New Zealand. On February 1, 2016 nine bishops made an oral submission to the Health Select Committee concerning medically assisted dying and Maryan Street's petition. In this submission they reiterated the importance of protecting human life and in conclusion made these three points:\n1. New Zealand should not enact legislation that would establish medically-assisted dying as an authorised form of terminating life, thus undermining a fundamental ethical principle.\n2. We should take steps to increase resources for palliative care, and the provision of social support for the lonely, ageing and depressed.\n3. We should enhance support for families caring for those with terminal illnesses to assist them in understanding what is happening and likely to happen, how to manage stress and grief, and how to build positive relationships with the dying, remembering that dying can be an important last phase of life in resolving conflicts of the past and establishing new relationships of love and care. \n\nThe Catholic Church in Aotearoa New Zealand, the largest Christian denomination in New Zealand, is broadly opposed to legalising euthanasia/physician assisted suicide. There are several reasons put forth by the New Zealand Catholic Bishops Bioethics Agency, The Nathaniel Centre, against legalising euthanasia/physician assisted suicide. Firstly, safeguards such as limiting of access to a narrow group of people will not eliminate the possibility of abuses occurring. They say that it is inevitable that when following a liberal philosophy in this instance, boundaries established initially will likely be widened to allow for other interest groups to access euthanasia. Secondly, granting the choice to be killed, or receive aided death will undermine the choice and/or will of many others to live. Thirdly, legalising physician assisted suicide/euthanasia infers acceptance of the notion that 'some suicides are okay'. They say this would undermine work undertaken in recent years by various non-government and government groups to remove the various stigmas associated depression and other mental illnesses that are known to be influencing factors in an individual not seeking treatment, which ultimately leads to some individuals ending their own life. This is particularly so in relation to youth suicide. Finally, broad societal support is given to the ongoing effort within the practice of palliative care to address the needs of the whole patient and their families. They say that legalising euthanasia/physician assisted suicide may hamper progress in supporting quality of life for those who want to live. \"The key issue is not compassion or morality—people on both sides of the debate want to prevent intolerable suffering. The key issue is the long-term consequences of a law change for public safety. This is an issue of social justice—protecting the vulnerable.\"\n\nThe Salvation Army opposes euthanasia. They do not see it as \"death with dignity\" and say that individuals do not have the right to take their own life.\n\nNew Zealand anti-abortion/pro-life organisations such as Voice for Life and Right to Life New Zealand are also opposed to decriminalisation of voluntary euthanasia or physician assisted suicide, although this has usually been subordinate to their opposition to abortion in New Zealand.\n\nHowever, according to the New Zealand census, New Zealand is an increasingly secular society and it is probable that it is medical practitioners organisations that have greater credibility when it comes to opposition to euthanasia law reform. The New Zealand Medical Association and Hospice New Zealand do not support the legalisation of euthanasia.\n\nTwo attempts to allow for legal euthanasia in New Zealand have failed to get through Parliament. In 1995 Michael Laws championed the Death with Dignity Bill, which aimed to legalise voluntary euthanasia. The terminal illness of Cam Campion, a colleague in Laws' first term in Parliament, prompted this advocacy. It failed by 61 votes against and 29 for the Bill.\n\nPeter Brown, when he was an MP for the New Zealand First political party, introduced a Death with Dignity Bill in 2003, but it was defeated by 59 to 58 votes. Brown became an advocate for euthanasia after his wife died of cancer in 1984.\n\nOn 11 March 2012, New Zealand Labour Party list MP Maryan Street announced that she was forwarding another private members bill to the parliamentary ballot box to forward the debate after witnessing the deaths of her mother and sister from incurable illnesses. The proposed legislation was known as the End of Life Choices Bill. By mid-July 2013, there were reports that her party colleagues were requesting that Street withdraw the bill, given the possibility that it would distract from other issues during 2014 General Election campaign.\n\nOn 6 June 2015, ACT New Zealand MP David Seymour confirmed that he was preparing a private members bill that would legalise medical aid in dying after \"Seales v Attorney-General\" found that only Parliament had the ability to address assisted dying laws. He entered the End of Life Choice Bill into the ballot on 14 October 2015. The bill passed its first reading on 13 December 2017, with 76 votes in favour, 44 opposed.\n\nRecent petitions to parliament asking for legalisation have been met with opposition from 16,000 submissions to a Health select committee inquiry from experts and members of the public.\n\n\"Lesley Martin redirects here. For those of a similar name, see Leslie Martin (disambiguation)\"\n\nLesley Martin received nationwide media coverage over the trial of the attempted murder of her mother. In her 2002 book \"To Die Like A Dog\" she revealed that she killed her mother due to the pain that she was suffering and was arrested shortly after its release. Martin was given a 15-month sentence of which she served seven and a half months. Ms Martin has since retired from euthanasia reform activism and dissolved Dignity New Zealand.\n\nIn a similar case, professor Sean Davison wrote his memoir, \"The Last Waltz: Love, Death & Betrayal,\" published in 2015, documenting the final days of his mother's life in 2006. A leaked copy of an early manuscript of the book revealed that he offered his mother a dose of morphine to help end her life. He was initially charged with attempted murder in 2011, but later pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of inciting and procuring suicide. He was sentenced to five months' home detention.\n\nIn 2015, lawyer and cancer sufferer Lecretia Seales put a case before the High Court to challenge New Zealand law for her right to die with the assistance of her GP, asking for a declaration that her GP would not risk conviction. She died of natural causes shortly after her family had received the judge's decision in \"Seales v Attorney-General,\" but before it was made public.\n\nFor euthanasia\nThe two main organisations lobbying for euthanasia in New Zealand are:\n\nThere were internal disagreements between Dignity New Zealand's Lesley Martin and Exit International's Philip Nitschke over the best way to provide voluntary euthanasia/physician assisted suicide for those who desire it. Martin favoured the introduction of legislation and regulation to control assisted suicide while Nitschke promotes autonomy and individual choice and responsibility at the end of life irrespective of existing legislation. Similar divisions occurred between organisations that sanction decriminalised and regulated voluntary euthanasia/physician assisted suicide and the late Jack Kevorkian in the United States, over similar tactical and strategic questions.\nAgainst euthanasia\nThe main organisation lobbying against euthanasia in New Zealand is The Care Alliance, a broad coalition of organisations from medical, family values, social, ethics, faith, disability, and other areas of society that advocates for better conversations around dying and improved access to palliative and other end of life medical and health practices. The Care Alliance members, however, share an understanding that compassionate and ethical end of life care does not include euthanasia and assisted suicide.\n\nThe members of The Care Alliance are:\n\nGayNZ.com has run articles that question whether the aforementioned fragmentation of euthanasia reformists, coupled with their lack of professional allies and the opposition of the New Zealand Medical Association and other medical groups will hamper decriminalisation of voluntary euthanasia or assisted suicide in New Zealand. This is based on analysis of the successful reform movements in the Netherlands and Oregon, where organised medical groups took a neutral stance on decriminalisation.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4359170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4359170", "title": "Frank Castillo", "text": "Frank Castillo\n\nFrank Anthony Castillo (April 1, 1969 – July 28, 2013) was an American Major League Baseball starting pitcher. Castillo played for the Chicago Cubs (1991–1997), Colorado Rockies (1997), Detroit Tigers (1998), Toronto Blue Jays (2000), Boston Red Sox (2001–2002, 2004), and Florida Marlins (2005).\n\nA sixth-round pick by the Cubs in the 1987 amateur draft, Castillo made his major league debut in 1991.\n\nOn September 25, 1995, in a 7–0 shutout victory over the St. Louis Cardinals at Wrigley Field, Castillo had a no-hitter broken up with two out in the ninth inning by inches. Bernard Gilkey hit a two-strike, line drive that fell in for a hit, despite an all-out attempt by Sammy Sosa to make a diving catch. The ball rolled to the wall for a triple, the only hit Castillo allowed. He struck out a career-high 13, including the first two batters in the ninth. Castillo was trying to become the first Cubs pitcher to throw a no-hitter since Milt Pappas against the San Diego Padres on September 2, 1972, which also was the last no-hitter hurled at Wrigley Field.\n\nHis most productive season came in 1995, when he posted career numbers in wins (11), earned run average (ERA) (3.21) and shutouts (2), while matching a career-high 135 strikeouts in 188 innings pitched.\n\nCastillo briefly retired from Major League Baseball after receiving a World Series ring as a member of the 2004 Boston Red Sox. He pitched one game with the Florida Marlins in 2005. He returned to baseball in 2007 with the York Revolution of the independent Atlantic League and again played for them in 2008. He collected an 84–56 record and a 3.72 ERA in 14 minor league seasons spanning 1987–2008.\n\nCastillo drowned in Bartlett Lake in Arizona on July 28, 2013, at the age of 44, while boating near his home with his family. At the time of his death, the last position in baseball he held was pitching coach for the Rookie League Mesa Cubs.\n"}
{"id": "144650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=144650", "title": "Ground zero", "text": "Ground zero\n\nIn terms of nuclear explosions and other large bombs, the term \"ground zero\" (also known as \"surface zero\") describes the point on the Earth's surface closest to a detonation. In the case of an explosion above the ground, \"ground zero\" refers to the point on the ground directly below the nuclear detonation and is sometimes called the hypocenter (from Greek ὑπο- \"under-\" and center). \n\nGenerally, the term \"ground zero\" is also used in relation to earthquakes, epidemics, and other disasters to mark the point of the most severe damage or destruction. The term is distinguished from the term zero point in that the latter can also be located in the air, underground, or underwater.\n\nThe origins of the term \"ground zero\" began with the Trinity test in Jornada del Muerto desert near Socorro, New Mexico, and the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in Japan. The Strategic Bombing Survey of the atomic attacks, released in June 1946, used the term liberally, defining it as: \"For convenience, the term 'ground zero' will be used to designate the point on the ground directly beneath the point of detonation, or 'air zero.'\" William Laurence, an embedded reporter with the Manhattan Project, reported that \"Zero\" was \"the code name given to the spot chosen for the [Trinity] test\" in 1945.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\", citing the use of the term in a 1946 \"New York Times\" report on the destroyed city of Hiroshima, defines \"ground zero\" as \"that part of the ground situated immediately under an exploding bomb, especially an atomic one.\"\nThe term was military slang, used at the Trinity site where the weapon tower for the first nuclear weapon was at \"point zero\", and moved into general use very shortly after the end of World War II. At Hiroshima, the hypocenter of the attack was Shima Hospital, approximately away from the intended aiming point at Aioi Bridge. \n\nDuring the Cold War, The Pentagon, the headquarters of the United States Department of Defense in Arlington County, Virginia, was an assured target in the event of nuclear war. The open space in the center of the Pentagon became known informally as ground zero. A snack bar that used to be located at the center of this open space was nicknamed \"Cafe Ground Zero\".\n\nDuring the September 11, 2001 attacks, two aircraft hijacked by 10 al-Qaeda terrorists flew into the North and South Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City, causing massive damage and starting fires that caused the weakened 110-story skyscrapers to collapse. The destroyed World Trade Center site soon became known as \"ground zero.\" Rescue workers also used the phrase \"The Pile\", referring to the pile of rubble that was left after the buildings collapsed. \nEven after the site was cleaned up and construction on the new One World Trade Center and the National September 11 Memorial & Museum were well under way, the term was still frequently used to refer to the site, as when opponents of the Park51 project that was to be located two blocks away from the site labeled it the \"Ground Zero mosque.\" \n\nIn advance of the 10th anniversary of the attacks, New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg urged that the \"ground zero\" moniker be retired, saying, \"...the time has come to call those 16 acres what they are: The World Trade Center and the National September 11th Memorial and Museum.\"\n"}
{"id": "47825090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47825090", "title": "Hajibey Sultanov", "text": "Hajibey Sultanov\n\nHajibey Farajulla oglu Sultanov (, 20 September 1921 – 5 March 2008) was an Azerbaijani astronomer and former head of the Shamakhi Astrophysical Observatory. Sultanov's main works tackle celestial mechanics and the genesis of the Solar System, as well as the origin, structure and evolution of the asteroid belt and minor planets. Sultanov was a member of the International Astronomical Union and European Astronomical Society.\n\nSultanov graduated from the faculty of physics and mathematics at the Baku State University in 1942, and fought on the Eastern Front of World War II. For his military service Sultanov was awarded the Order of the Patriotic War, and medals For Courage, For the Defence of the Caucasus, For the Liberation of Prague and For the Victory over Germany in the Great Patriotic War 1941–1945.\n\nHaving demobilized from the military in 1946, Sultanov began his scientific work in the Baku State University and completed postgraduate studies. Sultanov initially worked in the Institute of Physics and Mathematics of the Academy of Sciences of the Azerbaijan SSR. From 1953 Sultanov managed the planning and construction of the telescope at the Shamakhi Astrophysical Observatory. In 1953, he became the head of the newly established Astrophysics Department at that academy. In 1976–81, Sultanov was the Vice-President of the Academy of Sciences of the Azerbaijan SSR. Sultanov was also the head of the Shamakhi Astrophysical Observatory. Sultanov developed the hypothesis that a ring of minor planets formed as a result of successive disintegrations of few larger primary bodies that emerged at the beginning of the evolution of protoplanetary material. In 2004, Sultanov was awarded Shohrat Order for the advancement of Azerbaijani science.\n\nSultanov died during a fire in the administrative building of the Shamakhi Observatory in Baku on March 5, 2008.\n"}
{"id": "49608264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49608264", "title": "Ijaz Ahmed (Punjab cricketer)", "text": "Ijaz Ahmed (Punjab cricketer)\n\nIjaz Ahmed (unknown) is a former Pakistani first-class cricketer who played for Punjab cricket team. He played single First-class cricket match in 1956. He is a right-handed batsman.\n"}
{"id": "5096391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5096391", "title": "Isabella of Aragon, Queen of Portugal", "text": "Isabella of Aragon, Queen of Portugal\n\nIsabella, Princess of Asturias (2 October 1470 – 23 August 1498) was a Queen consort of Portugal and heir presumptive of King Ferdinand II of Aragon and Queen Isabella I of Castile, as their eldest daughter. Her younger siblings were Catherine, Queen of England, Queen Joanna I of Castile, Maria, Queen of Portugal, and John, Prince of Asturias.\n\nIsabella was the eldest child of Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile. Born during the reign of her uncle, Henry IV of Castile, the early years of her life were defined by the tension between him and her mother, as her uncle would not forgive her mother for marrying Ferdinand without his permission. Upon the death of Henry IV in 1474, Isabella's mother claimed the throne of Castile, and the young Isabella was swiftly sworn as the heir presumptive to the throne.\n\nThe early years of the reign of Isabella I was spent embroiled in a war of succession, as Henry IV had not specifically named a successor. A struggle ensued between Isabella I and her niece Joanna, who was known as \"la Beltraneja\" due to the rumors that she was the illegitimate child of Henry IV's queen Joan of Portugal and his favourite, Beltrán de La Cueva. Afonso V of Portugal, who was Henry IV's brother-in-law and young Joanna's uncle, intervened on Joanna's behalf and Ferdinand and Isabella were forced into a war with Portugal.\n\nDuring the war, young Isabella witnessed some of the chaos for herself. While her parents were fighting the Portuguese, the princess was left in Segovia while the city was placed under the control of Andrés de Cabrera and his wife Beatriz de Bobadilla. The city's residents, unhappy with this new administration, rose up and seized control of the city. The then-seven-year-old princess was trapped in a tower of the Alcázar for some time until her mother returned to Segovia and took control of the situation.\n\nThe war ended in 1479 with the Treaty of Alcáçovas. Among the terms were the provision that Princess Isabella would marry the grandson of Afonso V, Afonso, who was five years younger than the princess. The treaty also provided that Ferdinand and Isabella would pay a large dowry for their daughter and that the princess would reside in Portugal as a guarantee that her parents would abide by the treaty terms. In 1480, Prince Afonso went to live in the town of Moura with his maternal grandmother Beatrice, Duchess of Viseu, and was joined in the early months of the following year by his future wife, the ten-year-old Isabella. She spent three years in Portugal before returning home.\n\nIsabella also spent a considerable part of her youth on campaign with her parents as they conquered the remaining Muslim states in southern Spain. For example, she accompanied her mother in accepting the surrender of the city of Baza.\n\nHer first marriage was to Prince Afonso, the only son and heir of king John II of Portugal from his marriage with Eleanor of Viseu. The wedding, by proxy, took place in the spring of 1490 in Seville. On 19 November of that year, Isabella arrived in Badajoz, where she was welcomed by Afonso's uncle Manuel, the future King Manuel I of Portugal, whom she would eventually marry six years after her husband's death. Afonso and Isabella were reunited in Elvas on 22 November and, on the following day, Isabella met her mother-in-law, Queen Eleanor, in the Convento do Espinheiro in Évora, where the court had gathered to ratify the marriage that had been celebrated earlier in Seville.\n\nThough the marriage had been arranged by the Treaty of Alcáçovas, the marriage quickly became a love match. Isabella proved a popular figure with the Portuguese royal family due to her knowledge of their language and customs brought about by the years she spent in Portugal as a child. Isabella's happy life in Portugal came to an abrupt end in July 1491, however, when Afonso was killed in a riding accident. She was heartbroken and later became convinced that he had died because God was angry that Portugal had provided a refuge for the Jews that her parents had expelled from Spain.\n\nShe was eventually sent back to Spain at the request of her parents, and Isabella returned to them devoutly religious. She underwent efforts to starve and scourge herself, something she would do for much of the rest of her life as part of her mourning for Afonso. She also declared that she would never marry again. Her parents seem to have humored her declaration at first, but after the death of John II of Portugal in 1495, he was succeeded by Manuel I of Portugal, who immediately sought Isabella's hand. Ferdinand and Isabella, perhaps trying to respect their daughter's wishes, offered him the hand of one of their younger daughters, Maria, but he refused. There remained a stalemate between them until Princess Isabella agreed to marry Manuel on the condition that he expel all Jews from Portugal who would not convert to Christianity. He agreed to her ultimatum and they married in September 1497.\n\nIn the same year as her second marriage, Isabella became Princess of Asturias and heiress of the Crown of Castile following the sudden death of her only brother, John, Prince of Asturias, in September 1497, and the stillbirth of his daughter. Immediately, Philip, the husband of Isabella's younger sister Joanna of Castile, claimed the crown, although Isabella, as the eldest daughter was the heiress of the crown. The Catholic Monarchs, to counter the pretensions of their son-in-law Philip, held courts in the city of Toledo in 1498 a few months after the death of their son John and had Isabella and her husband Manuel sworn as the legitimate heirs of the Crowns of Spain. The royal family then went to Zaragoza to convene the courts of Aragon for the same purpose. Although female succession was permitted in Castile, Ferdinand II's kingdom of Aragon hesitated to accept a woman as their future ruler. If she were to give birth to a son, then the child could inherit everything, something much preferred to female rule.\n\nIsabella was pregnant at that time and, while in Zaragoza with the royal family, she gave birth on 23 August 1498 to her only child, Miguel da Paz, Prince of Portugal. Perhaps because of her constant fasting and self-denial, or the constant traveling at her advanced stage of pregnancy, she died within an hour of her son's birth. Her son, the new prince, was later sworn heir by the courts of Portugal, Castile, and Aragon, as the heir to these crowns.\n\nIsabella asked to be buried dressed as a nun and to be interred at the Convent of Santa Isabel in Toledo. Manuel's chance to become King of Castile ended with Isabella's death, and the primary hope of uniting all of the Iberian kingdoms vanished with Prince Miguel's death shy of his second birthday in 1500.\n\nWhen Queen Isabella of Castile died in 1504, she requested that the body of her deceased daughter, Isabella, be moved to rest by her side in Granada, but this was never done.\n\nManuel later married Isabella's younger sister, Maria of Aragon, who bore him his son and heir, John III. Portugal and Spain were finally united between 1580 and 1640, after Philip II of Spain, Isabella's great-nephew via her sisters, Maria and Joanna, successfully claimed the throne of Portugal as a son of Isabella of Portugal, the daughter of Maria and Manuel.\n\n"}
{"id": "57971041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57971041", "title": "Jacquy Haddouche", "text": "Jacquy Haddouche\n\nJacquy Haddouche (born February 19, 1964, in Beauvais – October 23, 2010 at Fresnes prison) was a French serial killer. He was convicted of three murders committed between 1992 and 2002, and was sentenced to life imprisonment with a 22-year lock-in period.\n\nHaddouche was born to Algerian parents. His mother was Djouber Azzouz, and his father was Ahmed Haddouche. Ahmed was a soldier in the French army during the Algerian war, and in 1962, like many harkis, Ahmed was evacuated with his family to France. In Beauvais, Oise, he found a job as a specialized worker at the Lockheed factory, where, after becoming alcoholic and very violent, was dismissed from his job. Jacquy was born on February 19, 1964, in a family where he was the third of twelve children. He was educated at George Sand College, and was considered intelligent and sensitive, but also unstable, aggressive, impulsive, intolerant, manipulative and unable to take frustration.\n\nIn 1979, the juvenile judge placed him in a guarded education center in Méru, where he escaped regularly to join the family housing. It is there that at sixteen, he lived through a traumatic scene. Unable to support his wife's divorce proceedings, Ahmed Haddouche committed suicide by shooting himself in the head in front of Jacquy. He was splashed by his father's blood and his father's body fell on him. Traumatized, he went left school and sunk into delinquency and became a substance abuser.\n\nCondemned and incarcerated several times, Jacquy Haddouche married in 1988, in Liancourt, at the instigation of his mother, which allowed him to obtain a reduction of his sentence. His ex-wife regretted the eight months that their marriage lasted.\n\nIn 1981, he committed a gang rape with a legionnaire older than him. He was sentenced to five years in prison by the cour d'assises for minors.\n\nIn 1986, he was sentenced to eight years in prison for a violent robbery.\n\nIn 1993, he was sentenced to six months in prison for burglary.\n\nIn 1996, he was sentenced to three months, four months and six months in prison for theft, aggravated theft and counterfeiting.\n\nIn 1997, he was sentenced to two years in prison for fraud and aggravated theft.\n\nIn 1998, he was sentenced to six years in prison for robbery, his victim surviving poisoning with drugs.\n\nOn November 30, 1992, in the early evening, in Beauvais, Haddouche met in an elevator 45-year-old Gilles Canette, a divorced and depressed French teacher. They talked for a bit, and Canette invited Haddouche in his apartment. Around 19h, two boys, pupils of Gilles, came to talk to him. The teenagers noticed that Haddouche behaved oddly, seemingly inspecting the rooms of the apartment. They left around 20h. Haddouche spent the evening with Gilles, eventually poisoning him with an antidepressant, cyamemazine, and then asphyxiating him. At midnight, the credit card of Gilles Canette was used at a vending machine, which was odd, considering that when Gilles wanted money from his account, he would always withdraw it at the bank counter, and he never used his card to the distributor. Early in the morning of December 1, 1992, Haddouche went to see the two teenagers at their home and threatened them to deny seeing him at Gilles' the night before. On December 1, 1992, Gilles was discovered naked on his bed by his cleaning lady. Police found a fingerprint of Haddouche on a bottle of strawberry syrup, and he was suspected of murder. He admitted to having gone to Canette's house, but not on the date of the murder. On December 13, 1993, Haddouche was taken into custody, but denied the accusations and declared that he was in the Paris region with his companion: Cloé. Cloé arrived conveniently at the police station and confirmed the alibi. When the police asked her for clarification, she refused to answer questions and left the police station. In his cell in custody, Haddouche made a suicide attempt by hurting his veins with his lighter and was hospitalized. The period of custody being ove and the police not having enough evidence to convict Haddouche, the court abandoned the prosecution against him and closed the case.\n\nAt the end of May 1995, at the \"Charlie Brown\" bar on Guy Patin street in Beauvais, Francine C., a pedagogical director in a medical-educational institute, was with a group of friends. Haddouche joined the group and befriended them. At the beginning of June 1995, Haddouche went to Francine on Nicolas Pastour Street, but she refused to let him in. He knocked on the front door so hard that she finally decided to open it and let him in. He told her that he was exhausted because he had just finished a guard at Méru's hospital. Compassionate, she offered him some coffee which he asked for. When he finished, she told him to leave, but Haddouche refused, and told him that Cloé, his now former companion, was with Frederick, a former friend. He took her to the room, raped her and left. She threw the sheets and washed with bleach the places where Haddouche was at her place. During the following weeks, Haddouche harassed her on the phone and kept watch in front of her door. She did not dare to complain and sunk into depression.\n\nIn June 2002 in Beauvais, Haddouche reconnected with Isabelle, whom he met in 1991, and they began a brief relationship. One evening, an alcoholic Haddouche struck Isabelle in the face in the presence of her daughter. He called her the next day and asked her to bring him some heart medicine, claiming that he was dying. When Isabelle arrived, he raped her again.\n\nOn June 20, 2002, around 7pm, Haddouche entered the SONACOTRA home on d'Anjou Street in the Argentinian district of Beauvais. Around 8 pm, he forced open the door to the studio of Léo Capon, a 73-year-old retiree. Haddouche attacked and slaughtered Leo Capon, searching the apartment and stealing objects of little value. Nervous, Léo's daughter, Daniele, went to her mother's house. She was surprised that the front door was unlocked. When she entered, everything had been searched and all the objects were upside down. There were many traces of blood on the floor, and garbage bags filled with various objects near the front door. Capon was lying on her back, in the bathroom, her face covered with pieces of cardboard. On the video surveillance strips of the building, a balding man carrying full bags in each hand and a cap hiding his face was visible. Because of the poor quality images, he could not be identified. Male DNA was discovered on various objects at Léo's house, but it was not listed in FNAEG. Capon was disfigured by the blows she had received, and forensic scientists established that she had died by choking on her own blood.\n\nOn July 4, 2002, in Boulogne-sur-Mer, Haddouche entered the apartment of Liliane D, the owner of a bar. He hit and tried to rape her, but was unsuccessful.\n\nOn July 15, 2002, at the bar \"L'endroit\" in Saint-Étienne, Sylvain Rome, a 32-year-old cameraman, sympathized with Haddouche at the counter. Around 16h, they left the bar together, Sylvain later buying drinks at the superette next to his home. Around 17h, David Sabido, a friend of Sylvain, rang at his apartment, but Sylvain made him understand that he's bothering him and refused to let Sabido in. Haddouche later poisoned Sylvain with Bromazepam and stabbed him. He cleaned the apartment, stole a checkbook, the mobile phone, Sylvain's identity papers and the keys to the apartment. On July 27, 2002, Sylvain Rome's father discovered him lying on his stomach on his bed.\n\nThe investigators established that Sylvain had a high blood alcohol level, was not depressed and did not consume antidepressants. A facial composite was made thanks to the descriptions of the bartender and Lucien Florent, a customer of the bar, with whom Haddouche discussed a little before meeting Sylvain.\n\nAt the end of August 2002, Haddouche seduced Nathalie, a young beneficiary of the RMI, to whom he introduced himself as a doctor at the hospital center of Beauvais where hosted. After a week, while they were drinking, Haddouche drugged, without Nathalie's knowledge, her second glass of kir. She became uncomfortable and was hospitalized. He stole her bank card and the amount of Nathalie's RMI.\n\nIn September 2002, Haddouche tried to make contact with Francine, whom had decided to file a complaint against him for the 1995 rape.\n\nOn September 13, 2002, in the Argentinean district of Beauvais, Liliane Michaud, 82, was returning from the supermarket \"Intermarché\" with her walker. Arriving at her pavilion, Haddouche attacked her, savagely beating her and stealing her wallet. When the investigators described the abuser to the supermarket security agents, they positively identified Jacquy Haddouche.\n\nOn September 30, 2002, the police filed a convocation against Haddouche, who did not attend.\n\nOn October 2, 2002, a little after 11pm, in Gard, Haddouche tried to break into the station by breaking a window. A security guard noticed him and alerted police officers on patrol. They later spotted the drunk Haddouche, who resisted their arrest. He claimed to be a kinesiotherapist and that his name was Saïd Haddouche. By passing his fingerprints to the automated fingerprint file, the police discovered that his first name is Jacquy, not Saïd. By passing his name to the wanted persons file, the police learned that he was wanted for murder in Beauvais.\n\nLater, Liliane Michaud formally recognized Jacquy Haddouche.\n\nOn December 3, 2002, Haddouche was indicted for the murder of Léo Capon, but he denied it. Objects stolen from her home were found by the police when they searched his home. Haddouche then accused his roomamte of being the murderer.\n\nIn 2003, Cloé confessed to the investigating judge that she lied, because in December 1992, she did not know Haddouche yet. She only met him while she was studying in Beauvais.\n\nThe telephone records showed that Haddouche's mobile phone was detected by the cell site that covered the area where Sylvain Rome's apartment was on the date of the murder. In custody in St. Etienne, Haddouche recognized that it was mid July 2002 came to visit members of his family. In 2003, during the police lineup behind a beam splitter, Lucien Florent formally identified Haddouche. He finally admitted that he met Sylvain at the bar, but said that he had never been to his house.\n\nHaddouche admitted to having met Francine C. at the bar \"Charlie Brown\", but denied having gone to her home. He declared that the complaint for rape against him was a revenge on the part of the latter, because he did not give her the narcotics which she had ordered him for an amount of 30 000 francs.\n\nJacquy Haddouche was sentenced by the tribunal correctionnel to 8 years in prison, for the attack on Liliane Michaud.\n\nThe defense of Jacquy Haddouche was provided by lawyers Karim Beylouni and Julien Vernet.\n\nIn 2007, the trial of Jacquy Haddouche began at the cour d'assises of the Loire in Saint-Etienne.\n\nAndré Buffard was the lawyer of the family of Sylvain Rome.\n\nIn March 2007, Jacquy Haddouche was sentenced to 30 years in prison, with a 20-year lock-in period for the murder of Sylvain Rome. He tried to appeal this decision, but on the first day of the new trial, Haddouche gave it up.\n\nOn April 23, 2008, the trial of Jacquy Haddouche began at the cour d'assises of Oise in Beauvais.\n\nAntoine Vaast was the lawyer of Gilles Canette's family, Philippe Tabart was the lawyer for Léo Capon's family and Virginie Bella-Gamba was the lawyer of Francine C.\n\nOn May 7, 2008, Haddouche was sentenced to life imprisonment with a 22-year lock-up period, with 20 years of mandatory care and treatment, for the murders of Gilles Canette and Léo Capon and the 1995 rape. He tried to appeal this decision.\n\nOn March 9, 2009, Haddouche's appeal trial began at the cour d'assises of the Somme in Amiens.\n\nHaddouche admitted to the murder of Léo Capon and the attempted rape in Boulogne-sur-Mer, but continued to deny the murder of Gilles Canette and the rape of 1995.\n\nHe was again sentenced to life imprisonment with a 22-year lock-in period.\n\nJacquy Haddouche appealed in cassation, but the appeal was dismissed.\n\nOn October 23, 2010, Jacquy Haddouche died from a cerebral hemorrhage in the Fresnes prison in the Val-de-Marne.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6581081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6581081", "title": "James Joseph McCann", "text": "James Joseph McCann\n\nJames Joseph McCann, (March 29, 1886 – April 11, 1961) was a Canadian politician, born in Perth, Ontario, son of John A. McCann, a mason and licence-inspector, and Mary Hourigan, who were both of Irish descent.\nAlthough he consistently reported his own birth-date as March 29, 1887, he was in fact born exactly one year earlier, and was originally named as James Parnell McCann. His birth registration gives this name in full, with the 1886 date, the entry for his parents' household in the 1901 census gives his name as James P. McCann and likewise supports the 1886 date, and the record of his first marriage in 1913 calls him James Parnell McCann. There is no possible doubt that the politician was the James Parnell McCann born in 1886, as his parents and wives are named in two different biographical dictionaries published during his own lifetime. It is possible he came to be known as James \"Joseph\" McCann following the early death of a younger brother named Joseph, born in 1895.\n\nMcCann took M.D. and C.M. degrees from Queen's University, Ottawa, in 1909 (graduating with the gold medal) and a post-graduate degree in medicine from the University of Chicago in 1911. Prior to entering political life, he practiced as a physician at Hamilton and at Renfrew, Ontario, serving for more than thirty years as Coroner for Renfrew County. He was first elected to the House of Commons of Canada representing the riding of Renfrew South in the 1935 federal election.\n\nA Liberal, he was re-elected in 1940, 1945, 1949, and 1953. He was defeated in 1957. He held the following ministerial positions in the cabinets of Mackenzie King and Louis St. Laurent: Minister of National War Services, Minister of National Revenue, and Minister of Mines and Technical Surveys.\n\nHis death notice in the \"Daily Star\" states, \"As finance minister in the immediate post-war years, he was charged with the responsibility of re-settling Canada's economy and was one of the first officials to warn of the danger of too-close economic ties with the U.S.\" His death notice in the \"Globe and Mail\" states, \"As Revenue Minister he watched Government income soar to record peacetime levels and took a personal interest in the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, which he had helped reorganize in 1941... During his political career Dr. McCann was an early advocate in the Liberal Party for government health programs, many of which later became realities.\" McCann was twice married, but had no children.\n"}
{"id": "39730186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39730186", "title": "John W. Dwinelle", "text": "John W. Dwinelle\n\nJohn Whipple Dwinelle (September 9, 1816 – January 28, 1881) was an American lawyer and politician. He served in a number of political posts in California and played important roles in both the legal history of San Francisco and the establishment of the California public university system.\n\nDwinelle was born in Cazenovia, New York, the son of Congressman Justin Dwinell and Louise Whipple, a descendant of William Whipple. He graduated from Hamilton College in 1834. While studying law, he edited the \"New York Daily Gazette\", the \"Daily Buffalonian\", and edited and typeset the \"Rochester Daily Advertiser\". Dwinelle was admitted to the bar in October 1837 and began a legal practice in Rochester, New York. In 1844 he was elected city attorney of Rochester. The next year he became master of chancery.\nIn 1849, he sailed to San Francisco, California, and began a legal practice there. He served in a number of government offices, including two terms on the San Francisco city council, Mayor of Oakland, California, and member of the California State Assembly from Alameda County, California.\n\nDwinelle represented the city of San Francisco in the so-called \"pueblo case\", \"Hart v. Burnett\", which secured San Francisco's claim to four square leagues of land due to the city's establishment as the pueblo of Yerba Buena under Mexican rule. Dwinelle's lengthy brief on these matters of land usage and history were published as \"The Colonial History of San Francisco\" (1863).\n\nDwinelle was also the lawyer in an important court case regarding school segregation. In \"Ward v. Flood\" (1874), he represented a black child who was refused enrollment at a San Francisco school. The Supreme Court of California ruled that black students could not be refused education under the Fourteenth Amendment, but that they could be denied entry into specific schools on the basis of race. This upheld the legal principle of \"separate but equal\" many years before the legal doctrine was adopted by the United States Supreme Court in \"Plessy v. Ferguson\" (1896). While this ruling did not desegregate California schools, it did guarantee the right of black students to an education.\n\nAs an Assemblyman, Dwinelle wrote and introduced the 1868 Organic Act establishing the University of California. Dwinelle became one of the first Regents of the University of California. Dwinelle Hall at University of California, Berkeley, the first campus opened as a result of Dwinelle's bill, is named for him.\n\nWhile trying to catch a ferry, Dwinelle fell from a pier in Port Costa, California, and drowned. His body washed ashore three weeks later.\n"}
{"id": "855980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855980", "title": "Just-world hypothesis", "text": "Just-world hypothesis\n\nThe just-world hypothesis or just-world fallacy is the cognitive bias (or assumption) that a person's actions are inherently inclined to bring morally fair and fitting consequences to that person, to the end of all noble actions being eventually rewarded and all evil actions eventually punished. In other words, the just-world hypothesis is the tendency to attribute consequences to—or expect consequences as the result of—a universal force that restores moral balance. This belief generally implies the existence of cosmic justice, destiny, divine providence, desert, stability, or order, and has high potential to result in fallacy, especially when used to rationalize people's misfortune on the grounds that they \"deserve\" it.\n\nThe hypothesis popularly appears in the English language in various figures of speech that imply guaranteed negative reprisal, such as: \"you got what was coming to you\", \"what goes around comes around\", \"chickens come home to roost\", \"everything happens for a reason\", and \"you reap what you sow\". This hypothesis has been widely studied by social psychologists since Melvin J. Lerner conducted seminal work on the belief in a just world in the early 1960s. Research has continued since then, examining the predictive capacity of the hypothesis in various situations and across cultures, and clarifying and expanding the theoretical understandings of just-world beliefs.\n\nMany philosophers and social theorists have observed and considered the phenomenon of belief in a just world, going back to at least as early as the Pyrrhonist philosopher Sextus Empiricus writing around 180 CE who argued against this belief. Lerner's work made the just-world hypothesis a focus of research in the field of social psychology.\n\nLerner was prompted to study justice beliefs and the just-world hypothesis in the context of social psychological inquiry into negative social and societal interactions. Lerner saw his work as extending Stanley Milgram's work on obedience. He sought to answer the questions of how regimes that cause cruelty and suffering maintain popular support, and how people come to accept social norms and laws that produce misery and suffering.\n\nLerner's inquiry was influenced by repeatedly witnessing the tendency of observers to blame victims for their suffering. During his clinical training as a psychologist, he observed treatment of mentally ill persons by the health care practitioners with whom he worked. Although he knew them to be kindhearted, educated people, they often blamed patients for the patients' own suffering. Lerner also describes his surprise at hearing his students derogate (disparage, belittle) the poor, seemingly oblivious to the structural forces that contribute to poverty. In a study on rewards, he observed that when one of two men was chosen at random to receive a reward for a task, that caused him to be more favorably evaluated by observers, even when the observers had been informed that the recipient of the reward was chosen at random. Existing social psychological theories, including cognitive dissonance, could not fully explain these phenomena. The desire to understand the processes that caused these phenomena led Lerner to conduct his first experiments on what is now called the just-world hypothesis.\n\nIn 1966, Lerner and his colleagues began a series of experiments that used shock paradigms to investigate observer responses to victimization. In the first of these experiments conducted at the University of Kansas, 72 female subjects were made to watch a confederate receiving electrical shocks under a variety of conditions. Initially, subjects were upset by observing the apparent suffering. But as the suffering continued and observers remained unable to intervene, the observers began to derogate the victim. Derogation was greater when the observed suffering was greater. But when subjects were told the victim would receive compensation for her suffering, subjects did not derogate the victim. Lerner and colleagues replicated these findings in subsequent studies, as did other researchers.\n\nTo explain these studies' findings, Lerner theorized that there was a prevalent belief in a just world. A just world is one in which actions and conditions have predictable, appropriate consequences. These actions and conditions are typically individuals' behaviors or attributes. The specific conditions that correspond to certain consequences are socially determined by a society's norms and ideologies. Lerner presents the belief in a just world as functional: it maintains the idea that one can influence the world in a predictable way. Belief in a just world functions as a sort of \"contract\" with the world regarding the consequences of behavior. This allows people to plan for the future and engage in effective, goal-driven behavior. Lerner summarized his findings and his theoretical work in his 1980 monograph \"The Belief in a Just World: A Fundamental Delusion\".\n\nLerner hypothesized that the belief in a just world is crucially important for people to maintain for their own well-being. But people are confronted daily with evidence that the world is not just: people suffer without apparent cause. Lerner explained that people use strategies to eliminate threats to their belief in a just world. These strategies can be rational or irrational. Rational strategies include accepting the reality of injustice, trying to prevent injustice or provide restitution, and accepting one's own limitations. Non-rational strategies include denial, withdrawal, and reinterpretation of the event.\n\nThere are a few modes of reinterpretation that could make an event fit the belief in a just world. One can reinterpret the outcome, the cause, and/or the character of the victim. In the case of observing the injustice of the suffering of innocent people, one major way to rearrange the cognition of an event is to interpret the victim of suffering as deserving. Specifically, observers can blame victims for their suffering on the basis of their behaviors and/or their characteristics. Much psychological research on the belief in a just world has focused on these negative social phenomena of victim blaming and victim derogation in different contexts.\n\nAn additional effect of this thinking is that individuals experience less personal vulnerability because they do not believe they have done anything to deserve or cause negative outcomes. This is related to the self-serving bias observed by social psychologists.\n\nMany researchers have interpreted just-world beliefs as an example of causal attribution. In victim blaming, the causes of victimization are attributed to an individual rather than to a situation. Thus, the consequences of belief in a just world may be related to or explained in terms of particular patterns of causal attribution.\n\nOthers have suggested alternative explanations for the derogation of victims. One suggestion is that derogation effects are based on accurate judgments of a victim's character. In particular, in relation to Lerner's first studies, some have hypothesized that it would be logical for observers to derogate an individual who would allow himself to be shocked without reason. A subsequent study by Lerner challenged this alternative hypothesis by showing that individuals are only derogated when they actually suffer; individuals who agreed to undergo suffering but did not were viewed positively.\n\nAnother alternative explanation offered for the derogation of victims early in the development of the just-world hypothesis was that observers derogate victims to reduce their own feelings of guilt. Observers may feel responsible, or guilty, for a victim's suffering if they themselves are involved in the situation or experiment. In order to reduce the guilt, they may devalue the victim. Lerner and colleagues claim that there has not been adequate evidence to support this interpretation. They conducted one study that found derogation of victims occurred even by observers who were not implicated in the process of the experiment and thus had no reason to feel guilty.\n\nAlternatively, victim derogation and other strategies may only be ways to alleviate discomfort after viewing suffering. This would mean that the primary motivation is not to restore a belief in a just world, but to reduce discomfort caused by empathizing. Studies have shown that victim derogation does not suppress subsequent helping activity and that empathizing with the victim plays a large role when assigning blame. According to Ervin Staub, devaluing the victim should lead to lesser compensation if restoring belief in a just world was the primary motive; instead, there is virtually no difference in compensation amounts whether the compensation precedes or follows devaluation. Psychopathy has been linked to the lack of just-world maintaining strategies, possibly due to dampened emotional reactions and lack of empathy.\n\nAfter Lerner's first studies, other researchers replicated these findings in other settings in which individuals are victimized. This work, which began in the 1970s and continues today, has investigated how observers react to victims of random calamities like traffic accidents, as well as rape and domestic violence, illnesses, and poverty. Generally, researchers have found that observers of the suffering of innocent victims tend to both derogate and blame victims for their suffering. Observers thus maintain their belief in a just world by changing their cognitions about the victims' character.\n\nIn the early 1970s, social psychologists Zick Rubin and Letitia Anne Peplau developed a measure of belief in a just world. This measure and its revised form published in 1975 allowed for the study of individual differences in just-world beliefs. Much of the subsequent research on the just-world hypothesis used these measurement scales.\n\nResearchers have looked at how observers react to victims of rape and other violence. In a formative experiment on rape and belief in a just world by Linda Carli and colleagues, researchers gave two groups of subjects a narrative about interactions between a man and a woman. The description of the interaction was the same until the end; one group received a narrative that had a neutral ending and the other group received a narrative that ended with the man raping the woman. Subjects judged the rape ending as inevitable and blamed the woman in the narrative for the rape on the basis of her behavior, but not her characteristics. These findings have been replicated repeatedly, including using a rape ending and a 'happy ending' (a marriage proposal).\n\nOther researchers have found a similar phenomenon for judgments of battered partners. One study found that observers' labels of blame of female victims of relationship violence increase with the intimacy of the relationship. Observers blamed the perpetrator only in the most significant case of violence, in which a male struck an acquaintance.\n\nResearchers have employed the just-world hypothesis to understand bullying. Given other research on beliefs in a just world, it would be expected that observers would derogate and blame bullying victims, but the opposite has been found: individuals high in just-world belief have stronger anti-bullying attitudes. Other researchers have found that strong belief in a just world is associated with lower levels of bullying behavior. This finding is in keeping with Lerner's understanding of belief in a just world as functioning as a \"contract\" that governs behavior. There is additional evidence that belief in a just world is protective of the well-being of children and adolescents in the school environment, as has been shown for the general population.\n\nOther researchers have found that observers judge sick people as responsible for their illnesses. One experiment showed that persons suffering from a variety of illnesses were derogated on a measure of attractiveness more than healthy individuals were. In comparison to healthy people, victim derogation was found for persons presenting with indigestion, pneumonia, and stomach cancer. Moreover, derogation was found to be higher for those suffering from more severe illnesses, except for those presenting with cancer. Stronger belief in a just world has also been found to correlate with greater derogation of AIDS victims.\n\nMore recently, researchers have explored how people react to poverty through the lens of the just-world hypothesis. Strong belief in a just world is associated with blaming the poor, with weak belief in a just world associated with identifying external causes of poverty including world economic systems, war, and exploitation.\n\nSome research on belief in a just world has examined how people react when they themselves are victimized. An early paper by Dr. Ronnie Janoff-Bulman found that rape victims often blame their own behavior, but not their own characteristics, for their victimization. It was hypothesized that this may be because blaming one's own behavior makes an event more controllable.\n\nThese studies on victims of violence, illness, and poverty and others like them have provided consistent support for the link between observers' just-world beliefs and their tendency to blame victims for their suffering. As a result, the existence of the just-world hypothesis as a psychological phenomenon has become widely accepted.\n\nSubsequent work on measuring belief in a just world has focused on identifying multiple dimensions of the belief. This work has resulted in the development of new measures of just-world belief and additional research. Hypothesized dimensions of just-world beliefs include belief in an unjust world, beliefs in immanent justice and ultimate justice, hope for justice, and belief in one's ability to reduce injustice. Other work has focused on looking at the different domains in which the belief may function; individuals may have different just-world beliefs for the personal domain, the sociopolitical domain, the social domain, etc. An especially fruitful distinction is between the belief in a just world for the self (personal) and the belief in a just world for others (general). These distinct beliefs are differentially associated with positive mental health.\n\nResearchers have used measures of belief in a just world to look at correlates of high and low levels of belief in a just world.\n\nLimited studies have examined ideological correlates of the belief in a just world. These studies have found sociopolitical correlates of just-world beliefs, including right-wing authoritarianism and the protestant work ethic. Studies have also found belief in a just world to be correlated with aspects of religiousness.\n\nStudies of demographic differences, including gender and racial differences, have not shown systematic differences, but do suggest racial differences, with blacks and African Americans having the lowest levels of belief in a just world.\n\nThe development of measures of just-world beliefs has also allowed researchers to assess cross-cultural differences in just-world beliefs. Much research conducted shows that beliefs in a just world are evident cross-culturally. One study tested beliefs in a just world of students in 12 countries. This study found that in countries where the majority of inhabitants are powerless, belief in a just world tends to be weaker than in other countries. This supports the theory of the just-world hypothesis because the powerless have had more personal and societal experiences that provided evidence that the world is not just and predictable.\n\nBelief in unjust world has been linked to increased self-handicapping, criminality, defensive coping, anger and perceived future risk. It may also serve as ego-protective belief for certain individuals by justifying maladaptive behavior.\n\nAlthough much of the initial work on belief in a just world focused on its negative social effects, other research suggests that belief in a just world is good, and even necessary, for mental health. Belief in a just world is associated with greater life satisfaction and well-being and less depressive affect. Researchers are actively exploring the reasons why the belief in a just world might have this relationship to mental health; it has been suggested that such beliefs could be a personal resource or coping strategy that buffers stress associated with daily life and with traumatic events. This hypothesis suggests that belief in a just world can be understood as a positive illusion.\n\nSome studies also show that beliefs in a just world are correlated with internal locus of control. Strong belief in a just world is associated with greater acceptance of and less dissatisfaction with negative events in one's life. This may be one way in which belief in a just world affects mental health. Others have suggested that this relationship holds only for beliefs in a just world for oneself. Beliefs in a just world for others are related instead to the negative social phenomena of victim blaming and victim derogation observed in other studies.\n\nMore than 40 years after Lerner's seminal work on belief in a just world, researchers continue to study the phenomenon. Work continues primarily in the United States, Europe, Australia, and Asia. Researchers in Germany have contributed disproportionately to recent research. Their work resulted in a volume edited by Lerner and German researcher Leo Montada titled \"Responses to Victimizations and Belief in a Just World\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7754645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7754645", "title": "Kick the bucket", "text": "Kick the bucket\n\nTo kick the bucket is an English idiom, considered a euphemistic, informal, or slang term meaning 'to die'. Its origin remains unclear, though there have been several theories.\n\nA common theory is that the idiom refers to hanging, either as a method of execution or suicide. However, there is no evidence to support this. Its earliest appearance is in the \"Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue\" (1785), where it is defined as 'to die'. In John Badcock's slang dictionary of 1823, the explanation is given that \"One Bolsover having hung himself from a beam while standing on a pail, or bucket, kicked this vessel away in order to pry into futurity and it was all UP with him from that moment: \"Finis\"\".\n\nThe theory favoured by the OED relates to the alternative definition of a bucket as a beam or yoke that can be used to hang or carry things on. The \"bucket\" may refer to the beam on which slaughtered pigs are suspended. The animals may struggle on the bucket, hence the expression. The word \"bucket\" still can be used today to refer to such a beam in the Norfolk dialect. It is thought that this definition came from the French word \"trébuchet\" or \"buque\", meaning balance. William Shakespeare used the word in this sense in his play Henry IV Part II where he says:\nA third theory suggests that the origin of the phrase comes from the Catholic custom of holy-water buckets:\n\nYet another theory seeks to extend the saying beyond its earliest use in the 16th century with reference to the Latin proverb \"Capra Scyria\", the goat that is said to kick over the pail after being milked (920 in Erasmus' Adagia). Thus a promising beginning is followed by a bad ending or, as Andrea Alciato phrased it in the Latin poem accompanying the drawing in his \"Emblemata\" (1524), 'Because you have spoilt your fine beginnings with a shameful end and turned your service into harm, you have done what the she-goat does when she kicks the bucket that holds her milk and with her hoof squanders her own riches'. Here it is the death of one's reputation that is in question.\n\nAt one time the American and Caribbean expression 'kickeraboo' used to be explained as a deformed version of 'kick the bucket'. The expression occurs as the title of a mid-19th century American minstrel ballad with the ending 'Massa Death bring one bag and we Kickeraboo'. However, it is now thought that it may have derived from a native word in one of the West African creoles. The expression 'kek(e)rebu' is first recorded in 1721 with the meaning 'to die' in the Krio language of Sierra Leone. Earlier still 'Kickativoo' is recorded in Ghana (then known as the Gold or Slave Coast). In 1680 it referred to the capsizing of a canoe but also had the meaning 'to die'.\n\nWhatever African American usage might have been in the 19th century, by the 20th century they were using the idiom 'kick the bucket'. It occurs in the jazz classic \"Old Man Mose\", recorded by Louis Armstrong in the US in 1935, and in the West Indies it figured in the title of the reggae hit “Long Shot kick de bucket”, recorded by The Pioneers in 1969. In the case of the latter, the song refers to the death of a horse.\n\nIn North America, a variation of the idiom is 'kick off'. A related phrase is to \"hand in one's dinner pail\", a bucket that contains a worker's dinner. Another variation, 'bucket list', or a list of things to do before one dies, is derived from \"to kick the bucket\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52242380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52242380", "title": "List of biotech and pharmaceutical companies in the New York metropolitan area", "text": "List of biotech and pharmaceutical companies in the New York metropolitan area\n\nBiotech and pharmaceutical companies in the New York metropolitan area represent a significant and growing economic component of the New York metropolitan area, the most populous combined statistical area in the United States and one of the most populous megacities in the world. \n\nThe biotechnology sector is growing in the New York City area, based upon the region's strength in academic scientific research and public and commercial financial support. By mid-2014, Accelerator, a biotech investment firm, had raised more than US$30 million from investors, including Eli Lilly and Company, Pfizer, and Johnson & Johnson, for initial funding to create biotechnology startups at the Alexandria Center for Life Science, which encompasses more than on East 29th Street and promotes collaboration among scientists and entrepreneurs at the center and with nearby academic, medical, and research institutions. The New York City Economic Development Corporation's Early Stage Life Sciences Funding Initiative and venture capital partners, including Celgene, General Electric Ventures, and Eli Lilly, committed a minimum of US$100 million to help launch 15 to 20 ventures in life sciences and biotechnology in 2014, and in January 2018, the City of New York itself committed up to US$100 million into the venture.\n\nIn December 2014, the State of New York announced a US$50 million venture-capital fund to encourage enterprises working in biotechnology and advanced materials; according to Governor Andrew Cuomo, the seed money would facilitate entrepreneurs in bringing their research into the marketplace.\n\nBelow is a list of notable New York metropolitan area biotechnology and pharmaceutical corporations, including companies with either global or U.S. headquarters in the metropolitan region encompassing and surrounding New York City.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38562202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38562202", "title": "Loretta Bayliss", "text": "Loretta Bayliss\n\nLoretta Irene Bayliss (1939 – 30 June 1966) was a cricketer who played one women's Test match for New Zealand in 1961. A left-handed batsman and left-arm fast-medium pace bowler, she is one of thirteen cricketers to have taken a five-wicket haul on their debut in women's Test cricket. On her only international appearance, she claimed five wickets for the concession of 28 runs in the second innings against Australia.\n"}
{"id": "44664689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44664689", "title": "Lucius Aemilius Mamercus", "text": "Lucius Aemilius Mamercus\n\nLucius Aemilius Mamercus was a Roman statesman who served as consul three times: in 484, 478 and 473 BC. \n\nIn 484, as consul, Aemilius led the Roman forces in battle against the Volsci and Aequi. The Romans were successful, and the Roman cavalry slaughtered many in the rout which followed.\n\nLivy says that during his first consulship, Aemilius (together with his colleague Caeso Fabius Vibulanus) worked with the senate to oppose increases to the powers of the tribunes.\n\nIn 478 Aemilius led a Roman army successfully against the Etruscans. \n\n"}
{"id": "37943307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37943307", "title": "Luise Brunner", "text": "Luise Brunner\n\nLuise Brunner (born 25 August 1908, date of death unknown) was a German concentration camp guard in Auschwitz II (1942– late 1944) and the chief oberaufseherin (chief guard) of Ravensbrück concentration camp from December 1944 to April 1945. \n\nBrunner was born in Aidhausen in 1908. She trained at the Ravensbruck concentration camp during June 1942 and in October of that year she was assigned to Auschwitz-Birkenau, where she rose through the ranks to become a Kommandoführerin. At Birkenau, Luise was feared for her brutality: \"…A female German teacher – Drechsler – was the Lagerführerin [Stellvertretende Lagerführerin], a German woman named Brunner was the Oberapportführerin and another once called Grese [Grese] was the Rapportführerin. If they noticed a shawl, a pullover, or stocking they would beat you half-dead….\" \n\nDuring the Seventh Ravensbrück Trial (2 July 1948 – 21 July 1948), Brunner was tried on charges of mistreatment of inmates of Allied nationality and participation in the selection of inmates for the gas chamber. She was sentenced to 3 years imprisonment.\n\n"}
{"id": "3380304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3380304", "title": "Magnus II, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg", "text": "Magnus II, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg\n\nMagnus (1324–1373), called Magnus with the Necklace () or Magnus II, was Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, ruling the Brunswick-Lüneburg principalities of Wolfenbüttel (colloquially also called Brunswick) and, temporarily, Lüneburg.\n\nMagnus was the son of Magnus the Pious, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg (Wolfenbüttel). In 1362 Magnus and his brother Louis I, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg helped their brother Prince-Archbishop Albert II of Bremen to assert himself against the incumbent diocesan administrator Morris of Oldenburg, who claimed the see for himself. Magnus, Louis and the latter's father-in-law William II, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg (Celle), and their troops beleaguered Morris in the prince-archiepiscopal castle in Vörde and forced him to sign his resignation.\n\nAfter the death of his brother Louis in 1367, Magnus became the designated heir of both ducal principalities, Wolfenbüttel and Celle (colloquially also Lüneburg). When both his father and William II, who ruled over Celle, died in 1369, Magnus gained both ducal principalities. But already in 1370, he lost Celle to the Ascanian dukes of Saxe-Wittenberg (Albert and his uncle Wenceslas, Elector of Saxe-Wittemberg), who had been given the principality by Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor, who had also banned Magnus. Several cities, including Lüneburg (Lunenburg), Uelzen, and Hanover switched allegiance to the Ascanians; Magnus managed to keep the City of Braunschweig (Brunswick) among his allies only with difficulties. The Lüneburg War of Succession continued for several years after Magnus died in the Battle of Leveste (a part of today's Gehrden), near the Deister, on 25 July 1373.\n\nMagnus married Catherine, daughter of Bernhard III, Prince of Anhalt-Bernburg, who married Magnus' enemy, Albert, Duke of Saxe-Wittenberg, after his death. They had the following children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10664843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10664843", "title": "Masae Kasai", "text": "Masae Kasai\n\nMasae Kasai (河西 昌枝 \"Kasai Masae\", 14 July 1933 – 3 October 2013) was a volleyball player from Japan, who was a member of the Japan Women's National Team that won the gold medal at the 1964 Summer Olympics.\n\nMasae Kasai was born in Minami-Alps, Yamanashi, and started playing volleyball when the sport was still played with nine players a side in Japan (six are used internationally). She joined the Nichibo fiber spinning company right out of high school, first playing for corporation's Ashikaga (Tochigi) team, later for the one from Kaizuka (Osaka). The latter team dominated the women's sport in the late 1950s and 1960s, and when the Japanese started playing according to international rules, Nichibo Kaizuka's players formed the national team. Kasai and her team mates débuted at the 1960 World Championships, finishing behind the Soviet Union. Two years later, the Japanese won the title, defeating the Soviet squad before a Moscow audience. When volleyball made its Olympic début in Tokyo, they lived up to high expectations by again beating the Soviet Union in the final round-robin match, in straight sets. After the Olympics, team captain Masae Kasai met with the Japanese Prime Minister and complained to him that she had not been able to find a husband because of the difficult training regimen. The Prime Minister set her up with a date and the two later married. She later went on to become a volleyball coach in Japan and China, and sat on the board of the Japanese Volleyball Association. In 2008, she was inducted into the Volleyball Hall of Fame.\n\nMasae Kasai (who changed her last name to Nakamura after she married) died on October 3, 2013, in Tokyo from intracranial hemorrhage.\n\n"}
{"id": "16457116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16457116", "title": "Minor sabotage", "text": "Minor sabotage\n\nA minor sabotage (\"aka\" little sabotage or small sabotage; ) during World War II in Nazi-occupied Poland (1939–45) was any underground resistance operation that involved a disruptive but relatively minor and non-violent form of defiance, such as the painting of graffiti, the manufacture of fake documents, the disrupting of German propaganda campaigns, and the like. Minor-sabotage operations often involved elements of humor.\nThe purpose of minor-sabotage operations was primarily psychological — to show Polish civilians that the resistance remained active, and thus bolster civilian morale, and to wear down the German occupier.\n\nIn September 1939, during the German invasion of Poland, after the fall of Warsaw, a young Polish student, Elżbieta Zahorska, tore down a German poster. Soon after, she was executed for her act; her death, however, instead of cowing others, inspired an entire new branch of Polish resistance, called minor sabotage.\n\nSeveral organizations dedicated to minor sabotage were created in 1939 and 1940, notably PLAN, Wawer and Palmiry. Minor sabotage was often carried out by scouting organizations such as \"Szare Szeregi\". On a larger scale, it was coordinated by the Directorate of Civil Resistance of the Polish Underground State and, in some cases, by its military arm, the Home Army (see Operation N). Thousands were involved in minor sabotage. During two weeks in March and April 1942 when the \"kotwica\" symbol was introduced, it was painted all around Warsaw by a 400-strong dedicated team.\n\nAleksander Kamiński, a teacher and scouting activist, soon became a major figure in organizing such operations. In November 1940 he published an article in the main Polish underground newspaper, \"Biuletyn Informacyjny\", explaining how to carry out such acts.\n\nNotable or common minor-sabotage operations included:\n\nA particularly notable operation was carried out by Maciej Aleksy Dawidowski on 11 February 1942. Soon after the Germans had occupied Warsaw in 1939, they had placed on the Nicolaus Copernicus Monument on \"Krakowskie Przedmieście\" a large plaque proclaiming Copernicus to have been a German astronomer. Dawidowski removed and concealed the German plaque. In response, the Germans moved Warsaw's statue of Jan Kiliński to the National Museum in Warsaw. Immediately, Dawidowski and his comrades retaliated by placing a large graffito on the Museum (\"People of Warsaw—I am here. Jan Kiliński\") and adding a new plaque to the Copernicus monument: \"For removal of the Kiliński statue, I am extending the winter by two months. Kopernik.\" Even though most minor sabotage operations took place in Warsaw, they also were organized in other cities of occupied Poland, such as Częstochowa (painting anti-German graffiti, destruction of German signs, affixing of Polish posters), Kielce (defacing of German symbols on official signs, stamping newspapers with the Kotwica, painting of a large symbol of the Polish underground state on the tower of the Cathedral church), and Kraków (writing \"Hitler Kaputt\" on the walls, selling fake copies of the local daily \"Goniec Krakowski\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "302275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302275", "title": "Mothra", "text": "Mothra\n\nMothra is one of Toho’s most popular monsters, and second only to Godzilla in its total number of film appearances. Polls taken during the early 1990s indicated that Mothra was particularly popular among women, who were at the time the largest demographic among Japan's movie-going audience, a fact that prompted the filming of 1992's \"Godzilla vs. Mothra\", which was the best-attended Toho film since \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\". IGN listed Mothra as #3 on their \"Top 10 Japanese Movie Monsters\" list, while \"Complex\" listed the character as #7 on its \"The 15 Most Badass Kaiju Monsters of All Time\" list.\n\nThe name \"Mothra\" is the suffixation of \"-ra\" to the English word \"moth\"; since the Japanese language does not have dental fricatives, it is approximated \"Mosura\" in Japanese. The “ra” suffix follows the precedent set by “Gojira”, which in turn is derived from kujira (鯨（クジラ), the Japanese word for “whale,” to indicate the character’s enormous size.\n\nDuring its promotion of \"Mothra vs. Godzilla\" for the American market, American International Pictures entitled the movie \"Godzilla vs. the Thing\", probably to avoid legal action from Columbia Pictures, which had released the original \"Mothra\".\n\nMothra was first conceived in the January 1961 serial \"The Luminous Fairies and Mothra\" by authors Shinichiro Nakamura, Takehiko Fukunaga and Yoshie Hotta, who had been commissioned by Toho to write the outline of a future film. The character was further developed by Shinichi Sekizawa, whose experiences of starving in the South Pacific islands during World War II prompted him to envision a movie featuring an island where mysterious events occurred.\n\nIn her 1961 debut, Mothra's adult form consisted of a wire-operated mechanical puppet, while the larva was a suitmation puppet operated by six stuntmen crawling in single file. In \"Mothra vs. Godzilla\" three years later, the adult Mothra puppet was modified with radio-controlled legs, while the larvae were portrayed via a combination of motor-driven props and hand puppets. The larval Mothra featured in \"Ghidorah, the Three-Headed Monster\" remained largely unchanged from its previous appearance, though the color of its eyes was changed from blue to red. The adult Mothra prop featured in \"Mothra vs. Godzilla\" was reused in \"Ebirah, Horror of the Deep\", though previous heavy use had dulled its colors, frayed the fur on the head, and damaged the wings.\n\nDuring the early Heisei era of \"Godzilla \"films, which ignored the continuity established in pre-1984 movies, several attempts were made to develop a Mothra standalone feature. Akira Murao wrote a screenplay in 1980 entitled \"Mothra vs. Bagan\", which revolved around a shape-shifting dragon called Bagan who sought to destroy humanity for its abuse of the Earth's resources, only to be defeated by Mothra, the god of peace. The screenplay was revised by Kazuki Ōmori after the release of \"Godzilla vs. Biollante\", though the project was ultimately scrapped by Toho, under the assumption that Mothra was a character born purely out of Japanese culture, and thus would have been difficult to market overseas unlike the more internationally recognized Godzilla. With the success of \"Godzilla vs. King Ghidorah\", Toho sought to continue the series' newfound profitability by reintroducing familiar monsters rather than inventing new ones. Mothra was chosen as Godzilla's next antagonist on account of the character's popularity with women, who constituted the majority of cinemagoers at the time. Special effects head Koichi Kawakita co-wrote a screenplay entitled \"Godzilla vs. Gigamoth\" in 1991, which would have pitted Mothra against Godzilla and an irradiated Mothra doppelganger called Gigamoth, though this was rejected early on, and replaced with the final plotline seen in the film \"Godzilla vs. Mothra\". Kawakita's depiction of Mothra's adult form was given the ability to fire energy beams, which were rendered via optical effects, and the pollen dust emitted from its wings were given a sparkling effect not seen in prior movies. During the character's transformation from larva to adult, it was initially planned to have Mothra's unfolding wings rendered through CGI, though this was scrapped on account of it not looking \"sensitive\" enough. Although the movie was a financial success, the Mothra props were criticized by several authors, who noted that the adult Mothra's brighter colors made it look like a \"plush toy\", and that its wings flapped less gracefully than in previous incarnations, as they were made of heavy cloth. The Mothra puppet's immobile, chicken-like feet, and the lack of undulation in the larva prop's movements were also commented on as being inferior to the effects seen in 1960s Mothra movies. Criticism was also leveled at Mothra's altered origin story, which portrayed her as an extraterrestrial, thus dampening the character's motivation for protecting Earth. The character's newfound popularity nevertheless prompted Toho to produce \"Rebirth of Mothra\" in 1996.\n\nFor \"\", director Shūsuke Kaneko had originally planned on using Anguirus as one of Godzilla's antagonists, but was pressured by Toho chairman Isao Matsuoka to use the more recognizable and profitable Mothra, as the previous film in the franchise, \"Godzilla x Megaguirus\", which featured an original and unfamiliar antagonist, was a box office and critical failure.\n\nFor 2003's \"\", special effects director Eiichi Asada sought to model Mothra directly on her appearance in the original 1961 film, and to keep optical effects to a minimum. As with \"Godzilla, Mothra and King Ghidorah\", the adult Mothra was given mobile legs, though they were made to constantly move, as it was felt that the prop stopped looking realistic once they became immobile. Creature designer Shinichi Wakasa had initially wanted Mothra's wings to have the angular design seen in \"Rebirth of Mothra II\", though the prop was ultimately given the wing shape seen in the 1960s movies.\n\nMothra is usually accompanied by tiny twin female fairies, which Shinichi Sekizawa termed \"Shobijin\", meaning \"little beauties\". The original draft for \"Mothra\" called for four fairies, though Sekizawa reduced the number to two, as twins were comparatively rare in Japan, thus adding to the characters' mystique. Toho also sought to reinforce its links with Columbia Pictures, by featuring the singing duo The Peanuts, who had been popularized in America by Columbia Records. Yūji Koseki composed the song \"Mosura no uta\" (\"Song of Mothra\") for the fairies to sing when summoning Mothra. The song was originally sung in Malay, but there is also a later version, set to the same tune, sung in Japanese:\nThe Peanuts were given an additional song in \"Ghidorah, the Three-Headed Monster\" entitled \"Cry for Happiness\", composed by Hiroshi Miyagawa. The Peanuts did not reprise their role in \"Ebirah, Horror of the Deep\", and were replaced by the singing duo Pair Bambi.\n\nIn \"Godzilla vs. Mothra\", the fairies are renamed the Cosmos, and are played by Keiko Imamura and Sayaka Osawa. This casting move was criticized by Godzilla historian Steve Ryfle, who lamented the fact that the two actresses were not identical, and that their singing voices were \"paper thin.\" According to Takao Okawara, the Cosmos scenes were among the hardest scenes he had ever filmed, as the actresses had to synchronize their movements without looking at each other.\n\nIn the \"Rebirth of Mothra\" trilogy, Mothra Leo's fairies are called the Elias. These characters (Moll, Lora, and Belvera) contrast with prior adaptations because they possess separate personalities and rarely act in unison. Megumi Kobayashi was cast as Moll for all three films, Sayaka Yamaguchi as Lora for the first two films, Misato Tate as Lora for the third film, and Aki Hano as Belvera for all three films.\nIn \"Mothra\", Mothra hatches from an egg on Infant Island after her priestesses are abducted by a Rosilican capitalist hoping to exploit them as media celebrities. The larval Mothra swims to Tokyo and cocoons herself around the Tokyo Tower. Upon reaching her adult form, Mothra flies to Rosilica's capital and causes widespread destruction until her priestesses are returned to her.\n\nIn \"Mothra vs. Godzilla\", a Mothra egg appears on the coast of Japan, and is exploited as a tourist attraction. Mothra's priestesses attempt to negotiate the return of the egg to Infant Island, but are rebuffed. Godzilla attacks Japan, forcing humanity to beseech an embittered Mothra to intervene. Mothra dies fighting Godzilla, but the latter is defeated when two larvae emerge from the egg and encase Godzilla in a cocoon.\n\nIn \"Ghidorah, the Three-Headed Monster\", it is revealed that only one of the larvae survived. The remaining larva attempts to convince Godzilla and Rodan to join forces with her in order to fight King Ghidorah, but the two monsters reject her proposal. Mothra is nearly killed attempting to fight Ghidorah alone, but is saved through the intervention of Godzilla and Rodan.\n\nThe larva ultimately gains adulthood in \"Ebirah, Horror of the Deep\", where she saves a group of slaves taken from Infant Island from a terrorist base on Letchi Island undergoing a self-destruct sequence.\n\nAnother larva appears in \"Destroy All Monsters\", living alongside other monsters in Monsterland. Along with the other monsters, Mothra is briefly enslaved by the Kilaaks, who force her to attack Beijing and later join Godzilla in the destruction of Tokyo. The Kilaaks' mind control is ultimately broken, and Mothra joins the other monsters in the final battle against King Ghidorah.\n\n1992's \"Godzilla vs. Mothra\" portrays Mothra as a guardian of the Earth who presided over an advanced civilization over 12,000 years ago. When the civilization created a device designed to control the Earth's climate, the Earth responded by creating the black Mothra, Battra - which Mothra defeated, but not before the civilization was wiped out. Mothra's egg is later discovered in 1993 on Infant Island by the Marutomo real estate agency, which seeks to exploit it and Mothra's priestesses for profit. The egg hatches during a fight between Godzilla and a resurrected Battra, and the larva later attacks Tokyo in order to save its priestesses. Mothra forms a cocoon around the National Diet Building, attains its adult form, then briefly fights Battra before joining forces with him in order to fight Godzilla. Battra dies in the attempt, and Mothra pledges to fulfill Battra's role in preventing a meteorite from devastating the Earth in 1999.\n\nIn \"Godzilla vs. SpaceGodzilla\", Mothra becomes aware of SpaceGodzilla's advance towards Earth, and sends her priestesses to warn Earth of his arrival.\n\n\"Rebirth of Mothra\" is separate to the Heisei continuity, and portrays Mothra as the last remaining member of a species of giant moths who guard the Elias' civilization. This civilization was destroyed millions of years ago by the dragon Desghidorah, whom Mothra defeated. Mothra lays an egg in modern times, but is too weak to fight Desghidorah once it returns. The egg hatches and the new Mothra, named Mothra Leo, goes to protect his mother, but sadly Mothra is killed by Desghidorah while Leo is still too weak to injure the dragon. Leo manages to kill Desghidorah after maturing.\n\nLeo returns in \"Rebirth of Mothra II\", where he acquires a new and more powerful form in order to fight the pollution monster Dagahra.\n\nIn the final chapter of the trilogy, \"Rebirth of Mothra III\", Leo is forced to return to the Cretaceous period in order to retroactively kill the space dragon King Ghidorah.\n\nIn \"\", Mothra is portrayed as having been one of the three guardians of Yamato, originating 1,000 years before the events of the film. Initially an antagonist, Mothra was imprisoned in Lake Ikeda, only to be reawakened in 2001 to halt Godzilla's destruction of Tokyo. She is defeated, but transfers her spirit to King Ghidorah.\n\n\"\" has the Mothra from the original 1961 film send her priestesses to demand that Japan dismantle the anti-Godzilla weapon Mechagodzilla or face destruction, as she considers the cyborg to be against the natural order, having been created using the bones of the first Godzilla. When the second Godzilla lands, Mothra attempts to fight the monster alongside Mechagodzilla, but is killed in the process. Two larvae hatch on Infant Island, and reach Tokyo in order to fight Godzilla, whom they encase in a cocoon, which is then transported into the ocean by Mechagodzilla.\n\n\"\", which ignores the continuity of the previous film, establishes that Mothra protected the Earth 10,000 years ago from the cyborg Gigan. In the distant future, Gigan returns, under the control of the Xiliens, and is confronted by Mothra. In the ensuing battle, Mothra catches fire, but manages to kill Gigan by ramming into it and exploding.\n\nIn 2014, Legendary Pictures announced that they have acquired the rights to King Ghidorah, Mothra, and Rodan from Toho to use in their MonsterVerse.\n\nIn the post-credits scene at the end of the 2017 film \"\", Mothra appears in a series of cave paintings depicting other monsters that are known to exist that are shown in the footage to James Conrad and Mason Weaver, along with Rodan, King Ghidorah, and Godzilla.\n\nA casting call confirmed that Rodan, Mothra, and King Ghidorah will be featured in \"\". Viral marketing for the movie shows that Mothra retains her status as a creature deified as an angelic-like Goddess, referred to as the Queen of the Monsters; whether or not Infant Island is involved is yet to be determined. Monarch Sciences, the film's promotional website, identifies the Yunnan rainforest as Mothra's location and also states in its adult form to be capable of emitting beta-wave bioluminescence that can be projected through the intricate patterns on its wings and weaponized into destructive and blinding ‘god rays’.\n\nA post-credit scene in \"\" depicting a cave painting of Godzilla, Rodan, Mothra, and King Ghidorah introduces the characters (except for Godzilla) into the MonsterVerse.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8167299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8167299", "title": "Peter Newhard", "text": "Peter Newhard\n\nPeter Newhard (July 26, 1783 – February 19, 1860) was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Pennsylvania.\n\nNewhard was born in Allentown, Pennsylvania. He is credited with opening the hardware store in Allentown in 1812. He served as street commissioner of the borough of Allentown in 1812, and coroner of Lehigh County, Pennsylvania, in 1816 and 1817. He was elected to the Pennsylvania House of Representatives in 1817, 1818, 1819, 1824, 1825, and 1829, the term then being one year.\n\nHe was a member of the Pennsylvania State Senate from 1833 to 1837. He served as chairman of the town council in 1824 and again in 1837.\n\nNewhard was elected as a Democrat to the Twenty-sixth and Twenty-seventh Congresses. He was not a candidate for renomination in 1842. He served as burgess in 1843 and trustee of Allentown Academy in 1822, 1826, and 1843. He died in Allentown in 1860 and his interment is in the City Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "26350013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26350013", "title": "Petro Nini Luarasi", "text": "Petro Nini Luarasi\n\nPetro Nini Luarasi (born 22 April 1864 in Luaras, Kolonjë, Albania, then Ottoman Empire, and died on 17 August 1911 in Ersekë, Kolonjë, Albania, then Ottoman Empire) was an Albanian rilindas activist, Christian orthodox priest, teacher and journalist. His father, Nini Petro Kostallari, had also been active in the Albanian National Revival as a publicist and teacher.\n\nOnce that he finished the Qestorat seminary school under Koto Hoxhi, he worked as a teacher in the villages of Kolonjë District, where he taught Albanian in disguise and prepared a number of friends as future teachers of Albanian. In 1887 Luarasi and fellow teacher Thanas Sina took over the running of the Albanian school in Korçë from Pandeli Sotiri after his departure. Between 1887-1893 Luarasi opened in Ersekë and in some villages of the Kolonjë District Albanian language schools. Luarasi's founding and promotion of Albanian schools in the Kolonjë area brought him into conflict with Philaretos, the Greek archbishop of Kastoria. In 1892 a circular letter was sent to the Kolonjë Orthodox Albanian population to dissuade ties between them and Luarasi with Philaretos referring to him as a \"damned renegade\" spreading \"free masonry and Protestantism\", while condemning his work with Albanian schooling and stating that the Albanian language \"did not exist\".\n\nSubsequently, he emigrated to the United States in the 1904 - 1908 period, where he was an active member of the Albanian National Movement and initiator of the patriotic associations \"Motherland Nostalgia\" () and \"The Pellasgian\" (). Luarasi also worked as a director and teacher of the first Albanian School of the Gjerazi sisters in Korçë and in 1909-1911 he worked as a director of the Negovani school, which had been founded by Papa Kristo Negovani.\nHe also contributed to the organizations for the Liberation of Albania from the Ottoman Empire.\n\nPetro Nini Luarasi was one of the delegates of the Monastir Congress that sanctioned the creation of the Albanian alphabet in 1908. For his patriotic deeds, teaching of the Albanian language and social activism he was persecuted both by the Young Turks and the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople. He died poisoned by them on 17 August 1911.\n\nHe collaborated, published and was editor in chief with the following magazines:\n\n\nIn these journals he published teaching, poetry and publicistic writings. In his political work \"Excommunication of the Albanian letters\" () and \"The Diffamation of the Albanian\" () (Manastir, 1911), he protected the rights of the Albanian people to their own national culture. He propagated the main ideas of the Albanian National Revival which were those of uniting the Albanian people in their fight for the freedom of Albania, no matter the religious beliefs.\n\nPetro Nini Luarasi has been awarded by the Albanian Government the title People's Teacher of Albania. A high school bears his name in Tirana, Albania.\nOn 13 January 2012 the President of Albania, Bamir Topi decorate Luarasi after death Honor of Nation Order of Albania.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17369566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17369566", "title": "Pokémon Platinum", "text": "Pokémon Platinum\n\nIn \"Platinum\", players control either a male or female child character and start off with one of three Pokémon — Turtwig, Chimchar, or Piplup — from Professor Rowan. The mascot Pokémon is Giratina, who plays a central role in the game's plot. While it only had one form in \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", it is given a new alternate form alongside a new area called the Distortion World, which features altered physics from the normal land of Sinnoh, where the game takes place. The gameplay stays true to traditional \"Pokémon\" mechanics. Players explore a large area, which ranges from mountains to bodies of water, grasslands, populated areas, and snowy expanses. Similar to previous titles, players have their Pokémon fight turn-based battles against other Pokémon.\n\n\"Pokémon Platinum\" has been met with generally positive reception, holding aggregate scores of 84 and 83.14% at Metacritic and GameRankings, respectively. It was praised for being the best Pokémon game ever made and also praised for the additions and changes made to \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" by publications such as IGN, \"Nintendo Power\", and \"GamePro\", although it has also been criticized for being too similar to them. IGN ranked it as the ninth best Nintendo DS game ever made, as well as nominating it as one of the best DS role-playing games of 2009. It was the fastest-selling game in Japan at the time, selling 7.06 million copies by March 31, 2010.\n\n\"Pokémon Platinum\" is a role-playing game with adventure elements. Its basic mechanics are the same as those found in \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", featuring two-dimensional gameplay. As with all \"Pokémon\" games for hand-held consoles (excluding generation 6 games, which is the first to have 3d gameplay), gameplay is in third-person overhead perspective, and consists of three basic screens: a field map, in which the player navigates the main character; a battle screen; and the menu, in which the player configures his or her party, items, or gameplay settings. The player begins the game with one Pokémon and can capture more using Poké Balls. The player can also use his or her Pokémon to battle other Pokémon. When the player encounters a wild Pokémon or is challenged by a trainer to a battle, the screen switches to a turn-based battle screen where the Pokémon fight. During battle, the player may fight, use an item, switch the active Pokémon, or flee (the last not an option in battles against trainers). All Pokémon have hit points (HP); when a Pokémon's HP is reduced to zero, it faints and cannot battle unless revived with a Pokémon skill or item such as Revive or Max Revive.\n\nIf the player's Pokémon defeats the opposing Pokémon (causes it to faint), it receives experience points. After accumulating enough experience points, it may level up; most Pokémon evolve into a new species of Pokémon when they reach a certain level. Apart from battling, capturing Pokémon is the most important element of \"Pokémon\" gameplay. Although other trainers' Pokémon cannot be captured, the player may use a Poké Ball on a wild Pokémon during battle. A successful capture adds the Pokémon to the player's active party or stores it in the PC if the player already has the maximum of six Pokémon. Factors in the success rate of capture include the HP of the target Pokémon and the strength of the Poké Ball used unless it is a Master Ball which has a 100% capture rate; the lower the target's HP and the stronger the Poké Ball, the higher the success rate of capture is. \"Platinum\" features largely the same Pokémon as in \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", with some added and some missing. \"Platinum\" features the Pokétch, a wristwatch-like device, introduced in \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". It features simple applications such as a calculator, map, counter, and drawing pad. \"Platinum\" also features the Underground mode, a mode where players dig for spheres and Fossils.\n\n\"Platinum\" adds an area called the \"Wi-Fi Plaza\", an area that features several Pokémon species-themed mini-games and allows up to 20 players to be present in it. \"Platinum\" also introduces the Vs. Recorder, which allows players to record battles held in the Battle Frontier or on Wi-Fi. The GTS system, a system that allows players to trade anonymously on the Wi-Fi connection, returns in Platinum; one change to the GTS system allows players to be notified via email when a trade has commenced, though outside Japan, this feature has been reduced to being merely a message on the player's Wii. A variety of changes have been made to the appearance and availability of Pokémon; Giratina, Shaymin, and Rotom all have new forms, with Rotom having four new forms. The trios of Articuno, Zapdos, and Moltres, along with the trio of Regice, Regirock, and Registeel, have been added to the game as well. The game also adds the Battle Frontier, a feature first introduced in \"Pokémon Emerald\". \"Platinum\"s Pokémon Contests play similarly to \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\"s; they feature three stages, awarding ribbons to Pokémon for having the best end result. Baked goods called Poffins can be made from berries and fed to Pokémon in order to improve certain traits, depending on the kind of Poffin made. In addition to compatibility with \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", \"Platinum\" offers compatibility with the Game Boy Advance \"Pokémon\" RPGs. Players can upload Pokémon from \"Platinum\" to the Wii games \"Pokémon Battle Revolution\" and \"My Pokémon Ranch\", though the latter is only compatible with \"Platinum\" in Japan. A significant addition is the Distortion World, which features distorted physics versus those in the standard game.\n\n\"Platinum\" is set in the fictional region of Sinnoh, an island based on the Japanese island Hokkaidō. Like Hoenn and Alola, Sinnoh is not connected to any other region in the Pokémon universe. It is also characterized by large, snow-covered mountains (Mt. Coronet, part of a mountain range, divides Sinnoh in half). In this game, the starters are Grass-type Turtwig, Fire-type Chimchar, and Water-type Piplup. Unlike other regions, Sinnoh has a \"northern\" feel to it as it is the only region with permanent snow on the ground, and with routes with snow on the ground and active snowfall. In \"Platinum\", there is snow on the ground in other locations where it was not found in \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", and the player characters and the player's rival are dressed for colder weather when compared with the designs from the original games. Sinnoh is also characterized by its waterways; it has three main lakes (Verity, Acuity, and Valor) that form a triangle. Unlike the Hoenn region, however, which is mostly water routes, only 30 percent of Sinnoh's landscape comprises waterways. Underneath Sinnoh's surface is the Sinnoh Underground, a large maze of caves and tunnels where players can dig for rare items. \"Pokémon Platinum\", while keeping to the same plot as \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" for the most part, introduces several new elements to it. Two characters are introduced—the first being Charon, a scientist in Team Galactic, and the other being a detective investigating Galactic under the codename \"Looker\". Giratina is also the focus of the plot, whereas Dialga and Palkia were the focuses of \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", respectively. However, the player can still obtain both Dialga \"and\" Palkia, whereas in Diamond and Pearl, the player could only catch Giratina and the respective game's mascot.\n\n\"Pokémon Platinum\" was first announced on May 15, 2008, as a follow-up to \"Pokémon Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". It is in the same vein as \"Pokémon Yellow\", \"Crystal\", and \"Emerald\", which are sequels to \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\"s predecessors \"Red\" and \"Blue\", \"Gold\" and \"Silver\", and \"Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" respectively. When trying to determine what content to change from \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", game designer Takeshi Kawachimaru felt that the designers should focus on changing only the most important things so as to make sure that it was not too different from the original games. Game director Junichi Masuda commented that since they designed the original two games as the \"ultimate \"Pokémon\" titles\", they had to make \"Platinum\" even stronger than them.\n\nGiratina's design change was one of the first things revealed about \"Platinum\". In designing the new form, they paid attention to details; the designer redrew Giratina several times, attempting to make it look different from its form in \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". They finalized its design as an \"antimatter Pokémon\". Masuda explained antimatter as well as E=MC2 to the developers. He also explained the \"Reversed Mt. Fuji\", which is what they call the reflection of Mt. Fuji. While Kawachimaru didn't understand it at first, he later incorporated them into the game. The Distortion World was based on these ideas, described as the \"core concept\" of the game. They also added the Wi-Fi Plaza and Battle Frontier modes to improve players' ability to share information with other players. An idea that the developers wanted to include was to allow players to communicate with family and friends more easily; the developers felt that the Battle Frontier realized this idea.\n\nThe developers chose to call the game \"Platinum\" because of their observations that \"diamond\" has a \"meaning of love\", while pearl has a \"meaning of happiness\". They explained that they wanted to choose something that seems \"beautiful\", describing platinum as \"different from a diamond, different from a gem, different from a pearl, different from something that nature creates, something [that] shines, something beautiful.\" They also created the story to be different from \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", commenting that they wanted to make Giratina seem \"more fun, more interesting, cooler.\" They added Giratina's new area to make the story \"more appealing\". While \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" had gym leaders who sometimes had Pokémon not in keeping with the type they focus on, \"Platinum\" changes this so all Pokémon belonging to gym leaders were the appropriate type.\n\nIt was first announced for an August 2008 release in Japan, with no release date confirmed overseas at that time. It was eventually released on September 13, 2008, in Japan; March 22, 2009, in North America; May 14, 2009 in Australia; and May 22, 2009, in Europe. Its North American release was celebrated by Nintendo in New York City. As a bonus for those who pre-ordered \"Pokémon Platinum\", Nintendo gave away Giratina figurines in the United States. Expanded space was given to \"Pokémon\" merchandise in Toys 'R' Us for \"Pokémon Platinum\", which included a Pokémon Trading Card Game card set based on the \"Platinum\" name. They also arranged for several events to obtain rare Pokémon.\n\nGamePro's McKinley Noble commented that he anticipated the English release of \"Platinum\". 1UP.com commented that fans will not be left \"wanting\", stating \"once you venture back down the Pokémon rabbit hole, you won't be coming up again for a while.\" IGN's Craig Harris commented that those looking for something particularly new in \"Platinum\" such as a new method of control would be disappointed, adding that the controls felt \"clumsy\". However, he noted that those who played \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" will enjoy it for its new features and available Pokémon. In another preview, Harris commented that those who have played \"Diamond\" or \"Pearl\" will have to decide whether the new features are worth buying the game for, while those who have not should buy it if interested in playing a \"Pokémon\" game.\n\n\"Pokémon Platinum\" has received generally positive reception. It holds an aggregate score of 84/100 and 83.14% at Metacritic and GameRankings, respectively. It is the 56th highest rated Nintendo DS game and the 1,542nd highest rated video game on Game Rankings. \"The Anglo-Celt\" called it a solid, fun game for those who have yet to play \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". \"GamePro\"s McKinley Noble called it a great game, calling other third versions of mainline \"Pokémon\" titles \"lightweight\" in comparison. \"Famitsu\" gave praise to \"Pokémon Platinum\". One of the reviewers commented that players are \"getting a lot for their money\", while another reviewer commented that those who played \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" would not find it to be \"more of the same.\" Another reviewer praised not only the features but also the improved gameplay. The fourth reviewer found fault in it being \"\"Diamond\"/\"Pearl\" at the core\", and as a result, \"filling up your Pokédex from zero is rough.\" \"Official Nintendo Magazine\"s Chris Scullion called it the \"ultimate \"Pokémon\" game\", though noted that this was because it was an updated version of \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". \"Nintendo Power\" called it \"everything a Pokemon experience should be, and more.\"\n\nNintendo World Report's Zachary Miller commented that players who were burnt out on \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" wouldn't find much incentive to play \"Platinum\", but otherwise, said that \"Platinum \"is the \"best \"Pokémon\" game ever made\". Zippy of \"Hardcore Gamer\" cited its main quest, battle system, and multiplayer options for why \"it is the best hand held RPG available right now\". \"Games(TM)\" commented that the depth of \"Platinum\"s gameplay was deeper than \"most hardcore MMO can boast\". Toastfarmer of PALGN called it a \"crown jewel\" of the Nintendo DS, calling it a \"deep, engrossing and virtually endless game\". GameDaily's Robert Workman commented that while the graphics and gameplay could have been changed more than they were, it \"will score with hardcore fanatic and newbies alike.\" RPGamer's Adriaan den Ouden commented that while it was similar to \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", the expanded Pokédex makes it \"far more enjoyable.\" GameZone's jkdmedia commented that while \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" were great, \"Platinum\" was merely good. He added that it was a \"must-own\" to those who haven't played \"Diamond\" or \"Pearl\", but not for anyone else.\n\nEurogamer's Dan Pearson commented that those looking for a traditional role-playing game for the Nintendo DS should buy something like \"Chrono Trigger\", \"\" or \"\", or the \"Final Fantasy\" remakes, though he noted that those looking for a \"Pokémon\" title should get \"Platinum\". Eurogamer Portugal's Ricardo Madeira called it the \"more complete and distinct Pokémon third version he has seen to date.\" IGN's Craig Harris commented that while the improvements over \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" were not huge, its adventure mode and online mode were more fleshed out and expanded. They also included it in their list of Nintendo DS games of the Spring season, commenting that it improved on \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\"s gameplay formula, and went \"above and beyond with new areas, characters, and, of course, Pokemon\". In their \"Cheers & Tears: DS RPGs\" article, which details role-playing games of both high and low quality, IGN included \"Platinum\" as a game of high quality. They called it \"packed to overflowing with content\", commenting that even those who have played \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" several times could enjoy it. IGN ultimately named \"Platinum\", along with \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\", as the ninth best Nintendo DS game. IGN nominated it for best role-playing game for the Nintendo DS, while its readers chose it as the best multi-player game for the Nintendo DS.\n\n\"Games Master UK\" called it \"one of the most rewarding and substantial RPGs around\", while NGamer UK's Rich Stanton called it \"one of the finest strategy games ever made.\" RPG Fan's John Tucker commented that players of \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\" would only be interested in its expanded online mode. \"Game Informer\" commented that if one was looking for a role-playing game and hadn't played \"Diamond\" or \"Pearl\", it is \"absolutely the way to go\". 1UP.com's Justin Haywald called it the best \"Pokémon\" game, though noted that it wasn't very different from \"Diamond\" and \"Pearl\". GameTrailers commented that fans of the series and those who appreciate role-playing games would enjoy it, but blamed games like \"Platinum\" for being the reason why some have lost interest in the series. GameSpot's Shiva Stella commented that while not fresh, it was the best \"special edition yet\". Game Revolution's Joe Dodson commented that while it was not \"breathtaking\", it was one of the \"biggest and deepest phenomenons in gaming\". CESA gave \"Platinum\" one of nine awards for excellence.\n\n\"Pokémon Platinum\"s launch was credited for the increased sales of the Nintendo DS in Japan in September 2008. It sold more than one million copies in Japan in only three days, making it the fastest selling game in the region at that time. It sold 315,000 copies in its second week, totaling 1.3 million copies in nine days. \"Pokémon Platinum\" ranked second in another week, selling 195,000 copies; it ranked first, and sold 122,000 the week after. As of October 23, \"Pokémon Platinum\" was the second best-selling game for the respective week with sales exceeding 72,000 copies. Its current sales at that time were 1.75 million. It reentered the top 10 list in early December due to a lack of new releases. As of December 31, 2008, \"Pokémon Platinum\" had sold 2.12 million copies in Japan. It was the fifth best-selling Nintendo DS game for the week of February 12, 2009. For the week ending July 9, 2009, it was the second best-selling Nintendo DS game. For the week ending July 23, 2009, it was the fifth best-selling Nintendo DS game. It fell from the top 10 list in July 2009.\n\nIn North America for the month of March 2009, \"Pokémon Platinum\" ranked second on the top 10 best-selling video games chart, selling in excess of 805,000 copies from March 22 to April 4. For the week ending March 26, it was the second best-selling Nintendo DS game. For the week ending April 9, it was the best-selling Nintendo DS game. It ranked second place in both April and May 2009. It was the fourth best-selling Nintendo DS game for the week ending June 11, 2009. For the week ending July 9, 2009, it was the fifth best-selling Nintendo DS game. For the week ending July 23, 2009, it was the third best-selling Nintendo DS game. MarketWatch noted it as a strong seller for July 2009, a month considered to have been in a slump sales-wise. \"Pokémon Platinum\" was the 10th best-selling video game of 2009, selling in excess of 2 million copies. In the United Kingdom, \"Pokémon Platinum\" was the second best-selling Nintendo DS game for the week ended June 11, 2009. For the week ended June 20, 2009, \"Pokémon Platinum\" fell off of the United Kingdom's top 10 best-selling video games chart. For the week ending July 9, 2009, it was the second best-selling Nintendo DS game. For the week ending July 23, 2009, it was the fourth best-selling Nintendo DS game.\n\n\"Pokémon Platinum\" was the fourth best-selling game worldwide in the third quarter of 2008, selling approximately 1,482,000 copies. In the third quarter of 2009, \"Pokémon Platinum\" sold more than 2 million copies. In North America and PAL regions, \"Pokémon Platinum\" had sold a combined 3.75 million copies as of May 7, 2009. As of August 14, 2009, \"Pokémon Platinum\" had sold over 5.66 million copies worldwide. By October 30, 2009, \"Pokémon Platinum\" had sold 6.39 million copies worldwide. As of March 31, 2010, the game's worldwide sales has reached 7.06 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "7467334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7467334", "title": "Predator (fictional species)", "text": "Predator (fictional species)\n\nThe Predator (also known as Yautja or Hish-Qu-Ten) is a fictional extraterrestrial species featured in the \"Predator\" science-fiction franchise, characterized by its trophy hunting of other species for sport. First introduced in 1987 as the main antagonist of the film \"Predator\", the Predator creatures returned in the sequels \"Predator 2\" (1990), \"Predators\" (2010) and \"The Predator\" (2018) and the crossover films \"Alien vs. Predator\" (2004) and \"\" (2007).\n\nThe Predator has been the subject of numerous novels, video games and comic books, both on their own and as part of the \"Alien vs. Predator\" crossover imprint. Although a definitive name for the species is not given in the films, the names Predators, Yautja, Hish-qu-Ten have been alternatively used in the expanded universe, suggesting that two unique \"Predator-species\" exist. Created by brothers Jim and John Thomas, the Predators are depicted as large, sapient and sentient humanoid creatures who possess advanced technology, such as active camouflage, directed-energy weapons, and interstellar travel. Both the Yautja and the Hish-Qu-Ten compete for a chance to enter the ritual of becoming \"Blooded,\" a rank given to predators that have killed prey that has been deemed worthy.\n\nThe Predator design is credited to special effects artist Stan Winston. While flying to Japan with \"Aliens\" director James Cameron, Winston, who had been hired to design the Predator, was doing concept art on the flight. Cameron saw what he was drawing and said, \"I always wanted to see something with mandibles.\" Winston then included them in his designs. Stan Winston's studio created all of the physical effects for \"Predator\" and \"Predator 2\", creating the body suit for actor Kevin Peter Hall and the mechanical facial effects. The studio was hired after attempts to create a convincing monster (including Jean-Claude Van Damme wearing a much different body suit) had failed. Arnold Schwarzenegger recommended Winston after his experience working on \"The Terminator\".\n\nThe Predator was originally designed with a long neck, a dog-like head and a single eye. This design was abandoned when it became apparent that the jungle locations would make shooting the complex design too difficult. Originally, the studio contracted the makeup effects for the alien from Richard Edlund's Boss Film Creature Shop. However, problems filming the alien in Mexico led the makeup effects responsibilities to be given to Stan Winston. According to former Boss Films make-up supervisor Steve Johnson, the makeup failed because of an impractical design by McTiernan that included 12-inch leg extensions that gave the Predator a backward bent satyr-leg. The design did not work in the jungle locations. After six weeks of shooting in the jungles of Palenque, Mexico, the production had to shut down so that Winston could make a new Predator. This took eight months and then filming resumed for five weeks, ending in February 1987.\n\nJean-Claude Van Damme was originally cast as the Predator; the idea was that the star's abilities in martial arts would make the Predator an agile, ninja-esque hunter. When compared to Schwarzenegger, Carl Weathers, and Jesse Ventura, actors known for their bodybuilding regimens, it became apparent a more physically imposing man was needed to make the creature appear threatening. Eventually, Van Damme was removed from the film and replaced by actor and mime artist Kevin Peter Hall. Hall, standing at an imposing height of , had just finished work as a sasquatch in \"Harry and the Hendersons\".\n\nHall played the Predator in the first and second movies. He was trained in the art of mime and used many tribal dance moves in his performance, such as during the fight between Arnold Schwarzenegger and the Predator at the end of the first movie. In \"Predator 2\", according to a \"making of\" featurette, Danny Glover suggested the Los Angeles Lakers to be the other Predators because Glover himself was a big fan. Hall persuaded some of the Lakers to play background Predators because they couldn't find anyone on short notice. Hall died not long after \"Predator 2\" was released in theaters.\n\nIn \"Alien vs. Predator\", Welsh actor Ian Whyte, standing at 7 feet 1 inch and a fan of the \"Predator\" comics and movies, took over as the man in the Predator suits, such as portraying the \"Celtic\" Predator during its fight with an Alien warrior. Whyte returned to portray the \"Wolf\" Predator in \"\".\n\nIn \"Predators\", actors Brian Steele and Carey Jones both portrayed a new breed of Predator known as the \"Black Super Predators,\" who have been dropping humans on their planet for many years to play a survival game against them. In a nod to the first film, Derek Mears played the Predator as the creature appeared in the original, dubbed the \"Classic Predator.\"\n\nThe Predator's blood was made from a combination of the liquid from glow sticks mixed with K-Y Jelly. The mixture loses its glow quickly, so new batches had to be quickly made between takes. The technique was used in all five films featuring the Predator.\n\nThe camouflage effect was designed by R/Greenberg Associates, under the direction of Joel Hynek. The idea for the effect came in a dream one of the Thomas brothers (who wrote the film) had, in which there was a chrome man who was inside a reflective sphere. The man blended in, perfectly camouflaged, reflecting from all directions and only visible when in motion. The effect was created by repeating an image in a pattern of ripples in the shape of the Predator's body. It proved very effective and was a new way of presenting an \"invisible man.\" Before there was digital rendering technology all of the camouflage was done optically using photo-chemical means, so that one would never get the same result twice from combining the same pieces of film.\n\nAfter the original movies, Amalgamated Dynamics took over from Stan Winston Studio in creating the props for the Predators in the \"Alien vs. Predator\" film and a number of effects houses worked on the various other effects.\n\nFirst appearing in the 1987 film \"Predator\", the eponymous character lands in Earth via starship to \"hunt\" armed and dangerous human fighters. Having landed in a Central American jungle, the creature has already killed a handful of US Special Forces soldiers before beginning to hunt an elite paramilitary rescue team sent to rescue what they have been told are presidential cabinet ministers kidnapped by guerrilla forces. The Predator dispatches the team members one by one with its array of weaponry until Major \"Dutch\" (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is the last one alive. Dutch eventually confronts the creature, covering himself in mud to hide his heat signature from the Predator's thermal imaging, and setting up numerous booby traps. Though he manages to disable the Predator's cloaking ability, the Predator manages to capture him, and then, in a display of Honor, discards his mask and electronic weaponry before challenging Dutch to a final duel. Physically outmatched, Dutch eventually sets off one of his traps, which crushes and mortally wounds the creature. After being asked what he is by Dutch, the Predator simply mimics his question and sets off his self-destruct device before laughing maniacally, though Dutch manages to escape the explosion.\n\nSet in 1997, ten years after the events of the first film, the 1990 sequel follows a new Predator who sets his sights on Los Angeles due to its summer heat and drug wars between Jamaican and Colombian cartels, as well as the L.A.P.D. attempting to fight both gangs (Promotional material for the film said this Predator was younger, and chose a densely populated urban area for a more ambitious hunt). After eliminating leaders from both gangs, the Predator begins actively targeting the L.A.P.D. officers attempting to investigate his handiwork, specifically Lieutenant Michael Harrigan (Danny Glover) and his three partners (Rubén Blades, María Conchita Alonso and Bill Paxton). Special agent Peter Keyes (Gary Busey), purportedly sent by the DEA to investigate cartels, but actually leading the secretive Outworld Life Forms task force, attempts to capture the Predator alive for government study but he and most of his OWLF team are outsmarted and slaughtered by their quarry. Towards the end of the movie, the Predator is ultimately confronted by Harrigan in his own ship and killed when Harrigan uses one of his own weapons against him. The Predator's clan-mates de-cloak and carry away the dead Predator's body and give Harrigan a flintlock dating from 1715 as a sign of respect. The film also makes a reference to the \"Alien\" films, as shown in the Predators' trophy room, which has a skull closely resembling that of an Alien.\n\nIn 2004, a Predator ship arrives in Earth's orbit to draw humans to an ancient Predator training ground on Bouvetøya, an island about a thousand miles north of Antarctica. A buried pyramid which gives off a \"heat bloom\" attracts humans led by Charles Bishop Weyland (Lance Henriksen), who unknowingly activates an Alien egg production line. Three Predator novitiates enter the structure, killing all humans in their way with the intention of hunting the newly formed alien warriors. Two Predators die in the ensuing battle, and the third (credited as Scar in the credits) allies himself with the lone surviving human, Alexa Woods (Sanaa Lathan) to battle the escaped Queen Alien. The Queen is defeated, but not before she fatally wounds the last Predator. The Predator ship hovering above the battleground uncloaks and the crew retrieves the fallen Predator. A Predator elder gives Alexa a spear as a sign of respect, and then departs. Once the Predator ship is in orbit, it is revealed that a chestburster was in the Scar Predator's corpse, though this specimen has Predator mandibles.\n\nSet immediately after the previous film, the Predalien hybrid on board the Predator scout ship, which just separated from the mothership from the previous film, has grown to full adult size and sets about killing the Predators on board the ship, causing it to crash in Gunnison, Colorado. The last survivor activates a distress signal with a video of the Predalien, which is received by a veteran Predator (Wolf), who sets off towards Earth to \"clean up\" the infestation. When he arrives, the Predator tracks the Aliens into a section of the sewer below town. He removes evidence of their presence as he goes by using a corrosive blue liquid. He uses a laser net to try to contain the creatures, but the Aliens still manage to escape into the town above. The Predator fashions a plasma pistol from his remaining plasma caster, replacing one that was damaged while he hunted Aliens all across town (accidentally cutting the power to the town in the process) during a confrontation with human survivors. Later on, the Predator encounters the same human survivors again in the Alien Hive and loses his plasma pistol, with the last four humans taking it with them as they flee town in the hospital helicopter. The Predator then fights the Predalien singlehandedly, and the two mortally wound one another just as the United States military drops a tactical nuclear bomb on the town, incinerating both combatants as well as the few remaining humans in the city. The salvaged plasma pistol is then taken by United States Military officers to Ms. Yutani.\n\nIn \"Predators\", it is revealed that there are two warring Predator tribes: one group uses quadrupedal hunting beasts and elaborate traps to hunt, and the other hunts traditionally. An international group of soldiers and dangerous criminals from different locations from Earth are dropped onto a forested planet used as a Predator game reserve. After numerous skirmishes resulting in the deaths of two Predators and all but two of the captured humans, the last Predator manages to kill another member of his kind from a rival tribe, but is defeated in combat by the human survivors. The survivors then head off to seek a way back to their home, just in time to witness more people be dropped.\n\nIn June 2014, Fox announced a sequel which Shane Black will direct and co-write with Fred Dekker, and John Davis will produce. Continuing the existence of two Predator species, the film opens with a 'standard' Predator landing on Earth and being captured by a government research division known as 'Operation Stargazer', only for this Predator to escape to find missing parts of its armor that were taken by army sniper Captain Quinn MacKenna, who discovered the Predator's escape pod and was able to mail the items to himself before he was captured. When the armor is discovered by Quinn's autistic son Rory, Rory is able to translate the Predator language, just as MacKenna discovers that the Predator has escaped and is now hunting his son. Joining forces with Doctor Casey Bracket- an evolutionary biologist brought in to study the Predator- and a group of soldiers suffering from various PTSD symptoms that he was being escorted with, MacKenna is able to rescue his son, only to discover that the first Predator is being hunted by a larger alien of its own kind. The subsequent fighting results in the death of the first Predator, most of the Stargazer staff and the other soldiers in MacKenna's makeshift unit, but MacKenna, Rory and Casey are able to kill the giant Predator and retrieve the original alien's ship. Based on analysis of the ship, they determine that the Predators are adapting themselves with human DNA and intend to take Earth once humanity dies out through climate change, and the first Predator was a traitor who came to Earth with a cybernetic suit that would allow humanity to more easily stand up to the Predators.\n\nIn the \"Aliens vs. Predator\" novel series (based on the Dark Horse Comics) by David Bischoff, Steve and Stephani Perry, the Predators, known in the series as \"yautja,\" are depicted as living in a matriarchal clan-based society bearing similarities to a pack mentality whose strongest and most skilled of the group lead. The Predators are portrayed as sexually dimorphic mammals. The females are larger and stronger than males, and sport more prominent mammary glands (like human females). Both genders give off a strong musk to signify aggression, and females can also emit it when in estrus. This musk can be detected by other Predators and canids, though it is imperceptible to humans. Predators in the Perry novels are not monogamous, and it is common for veteran warriors to sire hundreds of offspring (known as sucklings) with multiple mates. It is also revealed that their blood has the capacity of partially neutralizing the acidity of Alien blood. Their religion is partially explored in the series, showing that they are polytheistic, and that their equivalent of the Grim Reaper is the so-called \"Black Warrior,\" who is seen as an eternal adversary who eventually wins all battles.\nThough female Predators are occasionally referred to in Steve and Stephani Perry's novel series, one does not make an appearance until the comic book limited series \"Aliens vs Predator: Deadliest of Species\". The female's design contradicts the descriptions given in the Perry novel series, as it superficially shows little distinction from males.\n\nThe Darkhorse/TopCow crossover \"MindHunter\", which pits the \"Witchblade\", \"Darkness\", \"Aliens\", and \"Predator\" franchises against each other, depicts a female Predator in a manner closer to the Perry description. It is very tall, has feminine hips, mammary glands, and a very muscular build, with different armor than the males.\n\nIn Randy Stradley's miniseries \"Aliens vs. Predator: War\", it is revealed through the narration of the character Machiko Noguchi that Predators were responsible for the spread of Aliens throughout the galaxy, though the Predators themselves deny this, stating that their large interplanetary distribution is due to simultaneous convergent evolution.\n\nThe comic series \"Predator\" and \"Aliens vs Predator: Three World War\" introduce a clan of Predators referred to as \"Killers,\" who are enemies of mainstream Predators (here referred to as \"Hunters\") because of their tradition of training Aliens as attack animals rather than hunting them, as well as their desire for killing as opposed to honorable hunting. The character Machiko Noguchi notes in issue #1 of \"Three World War\" that \"You have to understand the mindset of the Hunters, and the honor they place on facing a worthy opponent on an equal footing... a kill is the end result, but it's not the point of a hunt... For the 'Killers,' that wasn't the case. They were all about the killing.\" They are first seen in the 2009 \"Predator\" series, where a number interfere in an East African civil war, coming into conflict with both humans and their Hunter counterparts. By the time of \"Three World War\" the Killers are assumed to have been wiped out by the Hunters, but some survive and begin attacking human colonies, forcing Noguchi to forge an alliance between humans and the Hunters in order to deal with them.\n\nIn John Shirley's stand alone novel \"Predator: Forever Midnight\", Predators, now referred to as \"Hish,\" are shown to possess a gland located between their neck and collarbone which secretes powerful hormones into their bloodstream and which drives them to hyper-aggression. When this gland is over-stimulated, it sends the creatures into a frenzied rage, causing them to attempt killing any living thing in sight, including members of their own species. This \"kill rage\" can be contagious and spread from one Predator to another, driving them all to attack each other. The Predators as a species barely survived the wars provoked by their kill glands, and they have learned to control the gland's secretions with artificial hormone regulators.\n\nIn Ian Edginton and Alex Maleev's graphic novel \"Aliens vs. Predator: Eternal\" and the videogame \"Predator: Concrete Jungle\", Predator flesh and blood, if consumed, is shown to have the capacity of greatly lengthening a human's lifespan.\n\nIn the first-person shooting video game \"\", Predator appears as a hidden killstreak on the multiplayer map \"Ruins\" from the Devastation map pack. The player can play as Predator for a brief period by completing a Field Order and obtaining a care package. Predator is also a playable guest character via downloadable content in the fighting game \"Mortal Kombat X\", opposite an Alien.\n\nIn the tactical shooting video game \"\", a live event titled \"The Hunt\" was released on December 14, 2017. During this event, players may take part in a bonus campaign mission in the Caimanes district to battle the Predator, with the event lasting until January 2018.\n\nPredators are physically distinguished from humans by their greater height, arthropod-like mandibles and long, hair-like appendages on their heads that are set into their skulls (popularly perceived as \"dreadlocks\"). Their bodies are resilient to damage, capable of recovering from multiple gunshot wounds and radiation doses that would prove fatal to humans. Their wounds do however require medical attention and they incorporate a portable surgical kit in their armor for this purpose. They are also capable of enduring excruciating pain. Predators are much stronger than humans, having been portrayed as being easily capable of outmatching a conditioned adult human male and shattering solid concrete with their bare hands. They are also skilled climbers, and will readily move through trees or across rooftops in pursuit of prey. Though capable of surviving exposure in Antarctic temperatures for an extended period of time, it is implied that Predators have a preference for hot equatorial climates, and thus making them ectotherms. Their blood is luminescent phosphor green in color. Their vision operates mainly in the infrared portion of the electromagnetic spectrum; they can easily detect heat differentials in their surroundings but are unable to easily distinguish among objects of the same relative temperature. A Predator's bio-mask increases its ability to see in a variety of spectra, ranging from the low infrared to the high ultraviolet, and also filters the ambient heat from the area, allowing them to see things with greater clarity and detail. While they are capable of breathing Earth's atmosphere, the creature in \"Predator 2\" is seen using a breathing mask after losing his helmet (Although it should be noted that this Predator had just been shot multiple times and may have therefore not been operating at his full potential. A second possibility is that it was used to filter out impurities in the air - exhaust and such - which would not be found in more natural environments). Their dietary habits are also mentioned in \"Predator 2\", where it is revealed that the creature regularly visits a slaughterhouse every two days to feed on the stored meat there.\n\nThroughout their film appearances, Predators have undergone numerous design variations. In \"Predator 2\", the main Predator was designed to look more urban and hip than its predecessor. Design changes included tribal ornamentation on the forehead, which was made steeper and shallower, brighter skin coloration and a greater number of fangs. This Predator was made less reliant on his plasma caster, and more cunning with the use of nets, spears and bladed weaponry. In \"Alien vs. Predator\", the appearance of the Predators was redesigned to make them seem more heroic. Redesigns included a reduction in head and waist size, broader shoulders, a more muscular physique, piranha-like teeth on the upper jaw, and dryer and less clammy skin to further differentiate them from the Aliens. In \"Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem\", the Predator was returned to the sleeker design concept prior to \"Alien vs. Predator\". For the so-called \"Black Super Predators\" in \"Predators\", the designers used the differences between a cassette tape and an iPod as an analogy in differentiating the new Predators from the classic. The Super Predators were designed as leaner and taller than the \"classic\" Predator design, and they have longer faces, tighter armor, and more swept back dreadlocks.\n\nPredator culture revolves around the hunting and stalking of dangerous lifeforms. After making a kill, Predators typically skin or decapitate the carcass, converting it into a trophy. If immobilized or at the brink of death, a hunter will activate the mass-explosive self-destruct-mechanism in his wristband, honorably erasing any trace of its presence to its prey. It is often alluded to that the reason Predators hunt is not for sustenance or elimination of threats, but as sportsmanship or rite of passage, as they will normally only attack life forms that have the ability to provide them with a challenge. In \"Predators\", it is revealed that there are at least two different Predator tribes, which are engaged in a long lasting blood feud. The film also introduced a pack of spined, quadrupedal beasts used as flushing dogs by the \"Super Predators,\" Creature designer Gregory Nicotero used hyenas as a basis for the creature's physique and the spines were added later by Chris Olivia.\n\nPredators made contact with early human civilizations such as the Ancient Egyptians, the Khmer Empire, and Aztecs, as well as a fictitious culture inhabiting what is now Bouvetøya. Upon arriving on Earth, the Predators were worshipped as gods by humans, and they taught many of the civilizations how to build pyramids (an explanation as to why many of these different ancient societies had distinctly similar cultures and architecture), but in return expected sacrifices of humans for use as hosts for huntable Xenomorphs (Aliens) – the ultimate prey for initiates. The Predators returned to Bouvetøya every century to consummate the bargain, until at one point in the ritual, the Xenomorphs spread out of control, resulting in the Predators detonating a bomb that obliterated the entire civilization. Relations between humans and Predators deteriorated from that time on; the Predators then viewed humans as little more than another quarry to hunt.\n\nPredators feature prominently in the folklore of certain cultures; some Latin American people refer to the species as \"El Diablo que hace trofeos de los hombres\" (Spanish for \"The Demon who makes trophies of men\"), and Jamaican superstition identifies Predators as demons from the spirit world. When hunting humans, Predators normally avoid certain individuals such as children and some adults if they are unarmed, though they will spare armed ones if they happen to be pregnant or sickly unless they are attacked by them. A human who has managed to kill a Predator or a Xenomorph in single combat or has fought alongside a Predator is usually spared by the deceased hunter's comrades and given a gift (often a rare or exotic weapon) as a sign of respect.\n\nA learner's first successful Alien hunt is completed with the marking of his helmet and forehead with the acidic blood of his kill. The hunter generally operates alone. Even when hunters appear in groups, they rarely perform anything that resembles teamwork. Predators use Aliens as prey, creating artificial gaming reserves by keeping Queens and even Facehuggers in captivity. It is shown in a brief scene in \"Aliens vs. Predator: Requiem\" that Predators have had prior contact with a race of creatures resembling the \"Space Jockey\" in the film \"Alien\". This is confirmed in the film's DVD commentary. Again, in the film \"Predators\", when the group of main protagonists enters the Predators' camp, there is a brief view of an Alien skull on the ground (as well as the lower jaw of an Alien on the helmet of the Berserker Predator).\n\nThe script of the Predators is expressed in the films and other media through written patterns of dashes. These written symbols appear on the creatures' gauntlet displays, their helmets, architecture, and many other surfaces. The most common vocalizations of the Predators consists of a series of clicks, roars, snarls, and growls which are consisted of recorded vocalizations of animals such as lions, tigers, leopards, jaguars, cougars, black bears, grizzly bears, alligators, camels, and elephants. Predators will mimic human language on occasion, and have been shown to use their helmets to understand and speak human languages. Author Steve Perry designed a constructed language set for the \"Aliens vs. Predator\" novel series.\n"}
{"id": "55795309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55795309", "title": "Queenstown Massacre", "text": "Queenstown Massacre\n\nOn 17 November 1985, 2000 residents from Mlungisi township in Queenstown, Eastern Cape, gathered in Nonzwakazi Methodist Church to hear back from the Local Residents Association, who, in early November, had met with the Department of Education and Training, the Queenstown municipality, the Eastern Cape Development Board, and the Queenstown Chamber of Commerce to discuss the end of the consumer boycott. The meeting was short-lived as members of the Queenstown branch of the South African Police stormed into the meeting and opened fire on the residents. In the ensuing conflict between police and residents, 14 people were shot dead and 22 were injured. This incident is known as the 1985 Queenstown Massacre.\n\nThere had been no major political conflicts in Queenstown and the surrounding areas from the 1960s until the mid-1970s except for the forced removals and the incorporation of areas into the neighbouring Ciskei and Transkei homelands.\n\nIn the 1980s, the South African apartheid government led by PW Botha implemented system reforms aimed at creating divisions, and thus weakening the resistance of the people. One of these was by building a buffer middle class. Buffer middle class areas meant that infrastructural development was introduced in selective black townships. Some residents had better facilities than others, which created resentment between them. Botha's reform saw the creation of local black councils which fell under the national, white-run state administration (the \"Bantu Administration Board\"), which would continue to control the power and resources available to the township authorities.\n\nThe homes of people who supported and benefited from Botha's reforms, government buildings and beer halls, which were sponsored by the government, were attacked. At the same time organisations such as the newly formed United Democratic Front were applying pressure on the government through civic associations.\nEvents such as the Langa Massacre in Uitenhage, the consumer boycott in Port Elizabeth, the killing of The Cradock Four and the shootings in Aliwal North created an atmosphere of unrest in the Eastern Cape townships.\n\nIn Mlungisi township, Queenstown, the major grievances of the people were household evictions and the lack of a basic service infrastructure. In an article in the Daily Maverick of 19 November 2015 titled \"Your bullets will not stop us: A recollection of the 1985 Queenstown massacre\" Mlungisi community resident Ntombizodwa Martha Kamati: \"The main matters were absence of toilets, the sharing of public toilets. This was a major issue which made people to be annoyed. And there was this lodger's permit that people disliked, because you would be arrested [at] five-o-clock in the morning by the police, and then they would move with you in their van up and down, taking people from all over the location until it was at eight when they opened their office.\"\n\nTo voice out their grievances, the community of Mlungisi and surrounding areas, such as Ezibeleni and Whittlesea, under the influence of the United Democratic Front, organised a consumer boycott, which began in August 1985, wherein they placed pressure on the local business community. As part of the consumer boycott, black communities around Queenstown stopped buying from most white businesses in the area. Only white businesses that were seen as progressive received support.\n\nTension between the coloured and African communities followed the enforcement of the consumer boycott and at least one coloured man was necklaced (burnt with a tyre around his neck). This led to the formation of a coloured vigilante group, supported by the local SAP and SADF, which attacked the black people in Mlungisi. Black schools were also out on boycott since the assassination of The Cradock Four in June.\n\nIn September, the brother of a suspected apartheid informer was necklaced in Queenstown's Mlungisi township.\n\nIn early November 1985, the Local Residents Association, the Department of Education and Training, the Queenstown municipality, the East Cape Development Board, and the Queenstown Chamber of Commerce held a meeting with the aim of ending the boycott.\n\n2000 people gathered at Nonzwakazi Methodist Church in Mlungisi to get feedback on the negotiations from Local Residence Association on 17 November 1985.\n\nNarrating the events of the day in the article titled \"Your bullets will not stop us: A recollection of the 1985 Queenstown massacre\" in \"The Daily Maverick\" of 19 November 2015, Daniel Lolwana, Chairperson of the Residents Association who was addressing the meeting, said: \"I noticed an old man, Lizo Ngcana, being dragged inside, bleeding. And then he fell just where we were standing, it was right in front of the pulpit. Then, as I said there was pandemonium, the hall was filled with teargas and there was shooting all over. You could hear the shots. Now, because I worried about this man, when the casspirs from this side shifted over to the side of the Moravian Church, I ran quickly to the second house there to utilise a telephone.\" \n\n14 people lost their lives and 22 were wounded as a result of being shot with live ammunition by the police. On 13 December, all the victims of the massacre were buried at a mass funeral in Mlungisi township.\n\nIn response to questions in parliament over a year later, the then Minister of Justice, Mr Kobie Coetzee, said that an inquest into nine deaths from that incident had found that nobody was criminally liable. In 1996, the Truth and Reconciliation Commission found the SADF and SAP guilty and accountable for the death of 14 people at Nonzwakazi Methodist Church in Mlungisi township.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49443", "title": "Religious humanism", "text": "Religious humanism\n\nReligious humanism is an integration of humanist ethical philosophy with congregational but non-theistic rituals and community activity which center on human needs, interests, and abilities. Self-described religious humanists differ from secular humanists mainly in that they regard the humanist life stance as their religion and organise using a congregational model. Religious humanism is a classic example of a nontheistic religion.\n\nReligious humanists typically organise in the 21st century under the umbrella of Ethical Culture or Ethical Humanism. It remains largely a United States phenomenon; a British ethical culture movement was briefly highly active in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, but by the 1960s had largely abandoned its \"religious\" trappings, and asserted humanism less as a religious identity and more as a useful label to describe rational and non-religious attitudes to morality and ethics. Ethical Culture and religious humanism groups first formed in the United States from former Unitarian ministers who, not believing in god, sought to build a secular religion influenced on the thinking of French philosopher Auguste Comte.\n\nIn the late 20th century the Humanist movement that affirms the dignity and worth of all people came into conflict with conservative Christian groups in the United States. \"Secular humanism\" has become the most popular form of organized Humanism. \n\nThe Cult of Reason () was an atheist religion devised during the French Revolution by Jacques Hébert, Pierre Gaspard Chaumette and their supporters.\n\nIn 1793 during the French Revolution, the cathedral Notre Dame de Paris was turned into a Temple to Reason and for a time Lady Liberty replaced the Virgin Mary on several altars.\n\nIn the 1850s, Auguste Comte, the Father of Sociology, founded Positivism, a \"religion of humanity\". Auguste Comte was a student and secretary for Claude Henri de Rouvroy, Comte de Saint-Simon, the Father of French Socialism. Auguste Comte coined the term \"altruism\".\n\nOne of the earliest forerunners of contemporary chartered humanist organizations was the Humanistic Religious Association formed in 1853 in London. This early group was democratically organized, with male and female members participating in the election of the leadership and promoted knowledge of the sciences, philosophy, and the arts.\n\nThe Ethical Culture movement was founded in 1876. The movement's founder, Felix Adler, a former member of the Free Religious Association, conceived of Ethical Culture as a new religion that would strip away the accumulated unscientific dogmas of traditional religions while retaining and elevating the ethical message at the heart of all religions. Adler believed that traditional religions would ultimately prove to be incompatible with a scientific worldview. He felt that the vital aspects of religion should not be allowed to fall by the wayside. Religions provided vital functions in encouraging good works. And religions taught important truths about the world, albeit these truths were expressed through metaphors that were not always suited to modern understandings of the world. For example, monotheistic religions were based on a metaphor of an authoritarian monarchy, whereas democratic relationships were now understood to be the ideal.\n\nInitially, Ethical Culture involved little in the way of ceremony and ritual. Rather, Ethical Culture was religious in the sense of playing a defining role in people's lives and addressing issues of ultimate concern. Some Ethical Societies have subsequently added a degree of ritual as a means of marking special times or providing a tangible reminder of humanistic ideals.\n\nBefore the term \"humanism\" was ever coined or even thought of being integrated into religion it had existed in America in at least an ideological sense for a very long time. Groups like the Free Religious Association (FRA) which was formed in 1867 and other less radical groups mainly consisting of extreme forms of early American Protestants such as the Unitarians and Quakers had existed from the very first landings of the Europeans in the Western Hemisphere. In 1915, a Positivist defined the term \"humanism\" in a magazine for the British Ethical Societies. Another Unitarian Minister John H. Dietrich read the magazine and adopted the term to describe his own religion. Dietrich is considered by some to be the \"Father of Religious Humanism\" (Olds 1996) particularly for his sermons while serving the First Unitarian Society of Minneapolis.\n\nIn 1929 Charles Francis Potter founded the First Humanist Society of New York whose advisory board included Julian Huxley, John Dewey, Albert Einstein and Thomas Mann. Potter was a minister from the Unitarian tradition and in 1930 he and his wife, Clara Cook Potter, published \"Humanism: A New Religion\". Throughout the 1930s Potter was a well known advocate of women’s rights, access to birth control, \"civil divorce laws\", and an end to capital punishment.\n\nA Humanist Manifesto, also known as Humanist Manifesto I to distinguish it from later Humanist Manifestos, was written in 1933 primarily by Raymond Bragg and was published with thirty-four signatories. Unlike the later ones, the first manifesto talked of a new \"religion\", and referred to humanism as a religious movement meant to transcend and replace previous, deity-based religions. However, it is careful not to outline a creed or dogma. The document outlines a fifteen-point belief system, which, in addition to a secular outlook, opposes \"acquisitive and profit-motivated society\" and outlines a worldwide egalitarian society based on voluntary mutual cooperation. Bragg and eleven signatories were Unitarian ministers.\n\nThe Fellowship of Humanity was founded in 1935 by Reverend A. D. Faupel as one of a handful of \"humanist churches\" seeded in the early 20th century as part of the American Religious Humanism movement. It was the only such organization to survive into the 21st century and is the first and oldest affiliate of the American Humanist Association.\n\nIn 1961, Webster's Third New International Unabridged Dictionary defined religious humanism as \"A modern American movement composed chiefly of non-theistic humanists and humanist churches and dedicated to achieving the ethical goals of religion without beliefs and rites resting upon superstition.\"\n\nAmerican Religious Humanist organizations that have survived into the 21st century include the HUUmanists, formerly the Friends of Religious Humanism, and the Humanist Society, formerly the Humanist Society of Friends.\n\nA large percentage of members (as many as half or more) of Unitarian Universalist congregations have identified themselves as humanists when surveys have been conducted. The UU Humanist Association is the main representation of religious humanism within the Unitarian Universalist Association.\n\nReligious humanist associations have not been as successful in the United Kingdom as in the United States. The humanist movement in the UK began as a religious \"ethical movement\" in the 19th century, with the South Place Religious Society in London being the largest \"ethical church\". The remaining UK ethical societies merged in the 1890s to become the Union of Ethical Societies, which was founded and presided over by Stanton Coit. Following Coit's tenure, both organisations consciously moved away from the congregational model, becoming Conway Hall Ethical Society and the British Humanist Association respectively. \n\nIn 2013, the Sunday Assembly movement was founded in London as a \"godless congregation\" which was described in some places as \"church for atheists\", filling the niche vacated by other humanist groups.\n\nIn the Scandinavian countries, the popular Danish philosopher Harald Høffding's positivist work \"Etik\" influenced the development of humanist societies, which in Sweden and Norway styled themselves as \"human-ethical associations\", alike the Ethical Humanists in America and formerly in Britain. In modern times, the religious humanist/secular humanist distinction has fallen away; Norway, Human-Etisk Forbund is the name of Norway's humanist association, but it is fully a part of the broader international humanist community, and uses both \"humanettik\" and \"humanisme\" in describing its philosophy. In Sweden, the Human-Ethical Association rebranded as Humanisterna in 1999, dropping the congregational model as the British had done in the 1960s.\n\nBelgium is broadly divided between its Flemish Community (Flanders) and French-speaking community (Wallonia). In French Belgium, as in France, the secular movement is more concerned with national political organising and manifests nationally as the \"Centre d’Action Laïque\". In Flemish Belgium, the group \"deMens.nu\" (Humanity Now) brings together local humanist associations who engage in a broader range of activities, including community-based and congregational-style meetings. As with Humanists UK in the UK, \"deMens.nu\" grew from the union of local liberal or freethought associations.\n\nPeople writing about religious humanism are careful to distinguish religious humanism from Jewish humanism (secular Jews who are humanists), Christian humanism (religious Christians asserting the humanitarian aspects of their religion), and secular humanism (often simply \"humanism\", a non-religious approach to life), but confusion inevitably arises. Another such term is Humanistic Buddhism, which refers to an atheistic practice of Buddhist rituals.\n\nSome experts on humanism, including Andrew Copson, argue that there have been deliberate attempts to \"muddy the conceptual water... of a complicatedly imprecise philosophical term\" by adding the slew of qualifying adjectives to humanism. He points out that the term \"Christian humanism\" was first used in 1944, and argues that it has largely been used by Christians \"as a way of co‐opting the (to them) amenable aspects of humanism for their religion\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16998820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16998820", "title": "Ryan Rhodes", "text": "Ryan Rhodes\n\nRyan Rhodes (born 20 November 1976) is a British former professional boxer who competed from 1995 to 2012. He held the British light-middleweight title twice, from 1996 to 1997 and in 2008, and the European light-middleweight title from 2009 to 2010. Additionally he challenged for the WBO middleweight title in 1997, and the WBC light-middleweight title in 2011.\n\nRhodes took up boxing at a young age, training at Brendan Ingle's gym in the Wincobank district of Sheffield. At the age of 20, he defeated another Sheffield boxer Paul \"Silky\" Jones with a technical knock out in the eighth round to become the youngest post-war holder of the British title. He went on to win the belt outright in a record time of 90 days with wins over Peter Waudby and Del Bryan.\n\nOn 13 December 1997, Rhodes stepped up a weight division to middleweight to challenge the Canadian Otis Grant for the vacant WBO title but was defeated by a unanimous decision.\n\nOn 18 April 2008, Rhodes knocked out Gary Woolcombe 37 seconds into the 9th round to regain the British light middleweight title, 11 years after he first won it. He defended his title for the first time as the main event on the Hayemaker Promotions boxing show in Sheffield. His opponent was Jamie Coyle, whom he defeated by a unanimous decision.\n\nSince then he has defeated Vincent Vuma of South Africa to win the WBC International light middleweight title and in doing so obtained a ranking in the top ten in the world.\n\nRhodes was due to defend his British light middleweight title against the Londoner Anthony Small at the Echo Arena in Liverpool on 28 March 2008, but withdrew because of an illness during his training camp.\n\nHe defeated Jamie Moore in the seventh round of their European title fight on 23 October 2009. He defended the title again on 21 May 2010 at home against the Italian Luca Messi, with a technical knock out in the sixth round.\n\nRhodes lost his WBC light middleweight challenge bout against Canelo Álvarez with a technical knockout in the twelfth round on 18 June 2011 in Guadalajara, Mexico.\n\nRhodes announced his retirement from professional boxing on 4 September 2012.\n"}
{"id": "24915657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24915657", "title": "Sarah Bibber", "text": "Sarah Bibber\n\nSarah Bibber (or Vibber or Vibert; born c. 1656 – year of death unknown) was involved in the infamous Salem witch trials in 1692, both as an accuser of witchcraft, as well as being accused of being a witch herself.\n\nBibber was one of the \"afflicted\" who testified against the accused in the Salem Witch Trials of 1692. She is mentioned in indictments, gave depositions and testified under oath against 15 people accused of witchcraft. These were Mary Bradbury, George Burroughs, Giles Corey, Mary Easty, Sarah Good, Dorcas Hoar, Elizabeth How, George Jacobs, Sr., Susannah Martin, Rebecca Nurse, Alice Parker, John Proctor, Ann Pudeator, Job Tookey and John Willard. She also was mentioned in the indictment of Mary Witheridge.\n\nOthers, including John and Lydia Porter, Joseph Fowler, Thomas and Mary Jacobs, Richard Walker and Sarah Nurse testified against Bibber, claiming that she was involved in witchcraft. In 1692 Bibber's age was given as being about 36 years old. She was married to John Bibber and they had a 4-year-old child. Various court documents list their town of residence as Salem or Wenham. Her surname is variously given in the documents as Bibber, Biber and Vibber.\n\nSarah Bibber v. Sarah Good:\n\nBibber was described by those who testified against her as a \"loose-tongued creature, addicted to fits,\" a woman who quarreled often with her husband when she would call him \"very bad names,\" would have \"strange fits when she was crossed,\" a woman of turbulent spirit and \"double tongued.\" She was observed to be \"very idle in her calling\" and given to gossiping and making mischief among her neighbors.\n\nThe testimony of Thomas and Mary Jacobs against Bibber stated that\n\n… Bibber would be very often speaking against one and another very obscenely and those things that were false and wishing very bad wishes and very often and she wish that when her child fell into the river that she had never pulled ….her child out and Bibber use to wish ill wishes to herself and her children and also to others: the neighborhood where she lived amongst after she buried her first husband has told us that this John Bibber wife could fall into fits as often as she pleased.\n\n"}
{"id": "448010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=448010", "title": "Septic shock", "text": "Septic shock\n\nSeptic shock is a potentially fatal medical condition that occurs when sepsis, which is organ injury or damage in response to infection, leads to dangerously low blood pressure and abnormalities in cellular metabolism.\nThe primary infection is most commonly caused by bacteria, but also may be by fungi, viruses or parasites. It may be located in any part of the body, but most commonly in the lungs, brain, urinary tract, skin or abdominal organs. It can cause multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (formerly known as multiple organ failure) and death.\nFrequently, people with septic shock are cared for in intensive care units. It most commonly affects children, immunocompromised individuals, and the elderly, as their immune systems cannot deal with infection as effectively as those of healthy adults. The mortality rate from septic shock is approximately 25–50%.\n\nSeptic shock is a subclass of distributive shock, a condition in which abnormal distribution of blood flow in the smallest blood vessels results in inadequate blood supply to the body tissues, resulting in ischemia and organ dysfunction. Septic shock refers specifically to distributive shock due to sepsis as a result of infection.\n\nSeptic shock may be defined as sepsis-induced low blood pressure that persists despite treatment with intravenous fluids. Low blood pressure reduces tissue perfusion pressure, causing the tissue hypoxia that is characteristic of shock. Cytokines released in a large scale inflammatory response result in massive vasodilation, increased capillary permeability, decreased systemic vascular resistance, and low blood pressure. Finally, in an attempt to offset decreased blood pressure, ventricular dilatation and myocardial dysfunction occur.\n\nSeptic shock may be regarded as a stage of SIRS (Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome), in which sepsis, severe sepsis and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) represent different stages of a pathophysiological process. If an organism cannot cope with an infection, it may lead to a systemic response - sepsis, which may further progress to severe sepsis, septic shock, organ failure, and eventually, result in death.\n\nSeptic shock is a result of a systemic response to infection or multiple infectious causes. Sepsis may be present, but septic shock may occur without it. The precipitating infections that may lead to septic shock if severe enough include but are not limited to appendicitis, pneumonia, bacteremia, diverticulitis, pyelonephritis, meningitis, pancreatitis, necrotizing fasciitis, MRSA and mesenteric ischemia.\n\nSepsis is a constellation of symptoms secondary to an infection that manifests as disruptions in heart rate, respiratory rate, temperature, and white blood cell count. If sepsis worsens to the point of end-organ dysfunction (kidney failure, liver dysfunction, altered mental status, or heart damage), then the condition is called severe sepsis. Once severe sepsis worsens to the point where blood pressure can no longer be maintained with intravenous fluids alone, then the criterion has been met for septic shock.\n\nThe pathophysiology of septic shock is not entirely understood, but it is known that a key role in the development of severe sepsis is played by an immune and coagulation response to an infection. Both pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory responses play a role in septic shock. Septic shock involves a widespread inflammatory response that produces a hypermetabolic effect.  This is manifested by increased cellular respiration, protein catabolism, and metabolic acidosis with a compensatory respiratory alkalosis.\n\nMost cases of septic shock are caused by gram-positive bacteria, followed by endotoxin-producing gram-negative bacteria, although fungal infections are an increasingly prevalent cause of septic shock. Toxins produced by pathogens cause an immune response; in gram-negative bacteria these are endotoxins, which are bacterial membrane lipopolysaccharides (LPS).\n\nIn gram-positive bacteria, these are exotoxins or enterotoxins, which may vary depending on the species of bacteria. These are divided into three types. Type I, cell surface-active toxins, disrupt cells without entering, and include superantigens and heat-stable enterotoxins. Type II, membrane-damaging toxins, destroy cell membranes in order to enter and include hemolysins and phospholipases. Type III, intracellular toxins or A/B toxins interfere with internal cell function and include shiga toxin, cholera toxin, and anthrax lethal toxin.\n\nIn gram-negative sepsis, free LPS attaches to a circulating LPS-binding protein, and the complex then binds to the CD14 receptor on monocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils. Engagement of CD14 (even at doses as minute as 10 pg/mL) results in intracellular signaling via an associated \"Toll-like receptor\" protein 4 (TLR-4). This signaling results in the activation of nuclear factor kappaB (NF-κB), which leads to transcription of a number of genes that trigger a proinflammatory response. It was the result of significant activation of mononuclear cells and synthesis of effector cytokines. It also results in profound activation of mononuclear cells and the production of potent effector cytokines such as IL-1, IL-6, and TNF-α. TLR-mediated activation helps to trigger the innate immune system to efficiently eradicate invading microbes, but the cytokines they produce also act on endothelial cells. There, they have a variety of effects, including reduced synthesis of anticoagulation factors such as tissue factor pathway inhibitor and thrombomodulin. The effects of the cytokines may be amplified by TLR-4 engagement on endothelial cells.\nIn response to inflammation, a compensatory reaction of production of anti-inflammatory substances such as IL-4, IL-10 antagonists, IL-1 receptor, and cortisol occurs. This is called compensatory anti-inflammatory response syndrome (CARS).\nBoth the inflammatory and anti-inflammatory reactions are responsible for the course of sepsis and are described as MARS (Mixed Antagonist Response Syndrome). The aim of these processes is to keep inflammation at an appropriate level. CARS often leads to suppression of the immune system, which leaves patients vulnerable to secondary infection. It was once thought that SIRS or CARS could predominate in a septic individual, and it was proposed that CARS follows SIRS in a two-wave process. It is now believed that the systemic inflammatory response and the compensatory anti-inflammatory response occur simultaneously.\n\nAt high levels of LPS, the syndrome of septic shock supervenes; the same cytokine and secondary mediators, now at high levels, result in systemic vasodilation (hypotension), diminished myocardial contractility, widespread endothelial injury, activation causing systemic leukocyte adhesion and diffuse alveolar capillary damage in the lung, and activation of the coagulation system culminating in disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC).\n\nThe hypoperfusion from the combined effects of widespread vasodilation, myocardial pump failure, and DIC causes multiorgan system failure that affects the liver, kidneys, and central nervous system, among other organ systems. Recently, severe damage to liver ultrastructure has been noticed from treatment with cell-free toxins of Salmonella. Unless the underlying infection (and LPS overload) is rapidly brought under control, the patient usually dies.\n\nThe ability of TLR4 to respond to a distinct LPS species are clinically important. Pathogenic bacteria may employ LPS with low biological activity to evade proper recognition by the TLR4/MD-2 system, dampening the host immune response and increasing the risk of bacterial dissemination. On the other hand, such LPS would not be able to induce septic shock in susceptible patients, rendering septic complications more manageable. Yet, defining and understanding how even the smallest structural differences between the very similar LPS species may affect the activation of the immune response may provide the mechanism for the fine tuning of the latter and new insights to immunomodulatory processes.\n\nAccording to current guidelines, requirements for diagnosis with sepsis are \"the presence (probable or documented) of infection together with systemic manifestations of infection\". These manifestations may include:\n\n\nDocumented evidence of infection, may include positive blood culture, signs of pneumonia on chest x-ray, or other radiologic or laboratory evidence of infection. Signs of end-organ dysfunction are present in septic shock, including kidney failure, liver dysfunction, changes in mental status, or elevated serum lactate.\n\nSeptic shock is diagnosed if there is low blood pressure (BP) that does not respond to treatment. This means that intravenous fluid administration alone is not enough to maintain a patient's BP. Diagnosis of septic shock is made when systolic blood pressure is less than 90mm Hg, a mean arterial pressure (MAP) is less than 70 mm Hg, or a systolic BP decreases 40 mm Hg or more without other causes for low BP.\n\nTreatment primarily consists of the following:\n\nBecause lowered blood pressure in septic shock contributes to poor perfusion, fluid resuscitation is an initial treatment to increase blood volume. Patients demonstrating sepsis-induced hypoperfusion should be initially resuscitated with at least 30 ml/kg of intravenous crystalloid within the first three hours.Crystalloids such as normal saline and lactated Ringer's solution are recommended as the initial fluid of choice, while the use of colloid solutions such as hydroxyethyl starch have not shown any advantage or decrease in mortality. When large quantities of fluids are given, administering albumin has shown some benefit.\n\nTreatment guidelines call for the administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics within the first hour following recognition of septic shock. Prompt antimicrobial therapy is important, as risk of dying increases by approximately 10% for every hour of delay in receiving antibiotics. Time constraints do not allow the culture, identification, and testing for antibiotic sensitivity of the specific microorganism responsible for the infection. Therefore, combination antimicrobial therapy, which covers a wide range of potential causative organisms, is tied to better outcomes. Antibiotics should be continued for 7–10 days in most patients, though treatment duration may be shorter or longer depending on clinical response.\n\nAmong the choices for vasopressors, norepinephrine is superior to dopamine in septic shock. Norepinephrine is the preferred vasopressor, while epinephrine may be added to norepinephrine when needed. Low-dose vasopressin also may be used as an addition to norepinephrine, but is not recommended as a first-line treatment. Dopamine may cause rapid heart rate and arrhythmias, and is only recommended in combination with norepinephrine in those with slow heart rate and low risk of arrhythmia. In the initial treatment of low blood pressure in septic shock, the goal of vasopressor treatment is a mean arterial pressure (MAP) of 65 mm Hg. In 2017, the FDA approved angiotensin II injection for intravenous infusion to increase blood pressure in adults with septic or other distributive shock.\n\nWhile there is tentative evidence for β-Blocker therapy to help control heart rate, evidence is not significant enough for its routine use. There is tentative evidence that steroids may be useful in improving outcomes.\n\nTentative evidence exists that Polymyxin B-immobilized fiber column hemoperfusion may be beneficial in treatment of septic shock. Trials are ongoing and it is currently being used in Japan and Western Europe.\n\nRecombinant activated protein C (drotrecogin alpha) in a 2011 Cochrane review was found not to decrease mortality and to increase bleeding, and thus, was not recommended for use. Drotrecogin alfa (Xigris), was withdrawn from the market in October 2011.\n\nSepsis has a worldwide incidence of more than 20 million cases a year, with mortality due to septic shock reaching up to 50 percent even in industrialized countries.\n\nAccording to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control, septic shock is the thirteenth leading cause of death in the United States and the most frequent cause of deaths in intensive care units. There has been an increase in the rate of septic shock deaths in recent decades, which is attributed to an increase in invasive medical devices and procedures, increases in immunocompromised patients, and an overall increase in elderly patients.\n\nTertiary care centers (such as hospice care facilities) have 2-4 times the rate of bacteremia than primary care centers, 75% of which are hospital-acquired infections.\n\nThe process of infection by bacteria or fungi may result in systemic signs and symptoms that are variously described. Approximately 70% of septic shock cases were once traceable to gram-negative bacteria that produce endotoxins, however, with the emergence of MRSA and the increased use of arterial and venous catheters, gram-positive bacteria are implicated approximately as commonly as bacilli. In rough order of increasing severity these are, bacteremia or fungemia; sepsis, severe sepsis or sepsis syndrome; septic shock, refractory septic shock, multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, and death.\n\n35% of septic shock cases derive from urinary tract infections, 15% from the respiratory tract, 15% from skin catheters (such as IVs), and more than 30% of all cases are idiopathic in origin.\n\nThe mortality rate from sepsis is approximately 40% in adults and 25% in children. It is significantly greater when sepsis is left untreated for more than seven days.\n"}
{"id": "48859721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48859721", "title": "Serphitidae", "text": "Serphitidae\n\nSerphitidae is a family of fossil hymenopteran insects.\n\nThis family was described in 1937 by the American entomologist Charles Thomas Brues to classify a fossil insect caught in an amber piece from Canada. The species was named \"Serphites paradoxus\". After that, more genera were described and included in this family, like \"Archaeromma\" and \"Distylopus\" by the Japanese entomologist Hiroshi Yoshimoto in 1975, from fossils also found in Canadian amber, and \"Aposerphites\", \"Microserphites\", \"Palaeomymar\" and new species of \"Serphites\" in 1979 by the Russian entomologist Mikhail Vasilievich Kozlov and Alexandr Rasnitsyn, from Siberian amber .\n"}
{"id": "48418443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48418443", "title": "Siberian Tiger Introduction Project", "text": "Siberian Tiger Introduction Project\n\nThe Siberian Tiger Introduction Project involves reestablishing populations of the Siberian tiger (\"Panthera tigris alatica)\", also known as the Amur tiger, in their former range and also expanding their range by introducing them as replacements of their genetically similar relative, the extinct Caspian tiger (\"Panthera tigris virgata\"), which inhabited Central and Western Asia. Currently, the Siberian tiger inhabits the cold mountains of the Russian Far East and northern China.\n\nGenetic studies have revealed that Siberian and Caspian tigers are descended from the tiger population that colonized Central Asia about 10,000 years ago.\n\nSiberian tigers used to be common on either side of the Amur River in Russia and China, as well as in northeastern Mongolia and South Korea. Caspian tigers lived around the Caspian sea in Azerbaijan, Iran and Turkmenistan, and also further away in Armenia, Georgia and Turkey and Kazakhstan all the way to the Altai Mountains in the East. Caspian tigers reportedly became extinct in the 1970s after many years of hunting, poaching and habitat loss. Siberian tigers lost most of their ranges in Siberia and China and became extinct in the wild of Korea and Mongolia.\n\nThe Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) began working in the Russian Far East in 1992 to help conserve rare umbrella species like Siberian tigers, Amur leopards and Blakiston’s fish owls, whose survival ultimately requires the conservation of the forest ecosystem as a whole. The WCS founded the Siberian Tiger Project in cooperation with the Sikhote-Alin Nature Reserve at the same time. The goal of the Siberian Tiger Project is to collect the best possible scientific information on tiger behavior and ecology for use in conservation plans. The project has studied Siberian tigers by radio-tracking more than 60 individuals since 1992.\n\nThe Siberian Tiger Project combines traditional Russian and international approaches to conduct field research and is the world's longest running radio-telemetry based tiger research and conservation effort. \n\nIntroduction projects for Siberian tigers have been proposed for the Middle East, Central Asia and North Asia.\n\nSiberian tigers are set to be introduced to areas in Kazakhstan where Caspian tigers once lived. A national park tentatively known as Caspian Tiger National Park for introduced tigers might be opened in 2019.\n\nThe Amu Darya river delta was suggested as a potential site. A feasibility study was initiated to investigate if the area was suitable and if such an initiative would receive support from relevant decision makers. A viable tiger population of about 100 animals would require at least 5,000 km (1,930 sq mi) of large tracts of contiguous habitat with rich prey populations. Such a habitat is not available at this stage and also cannot be provided in the short term. The proposed region is therefore unsuitable for introduction at this stage.\n\nThe southeastern shore of Lake Balkhash where the Ili River discharges and forms a large delta was also chosen as a suitable habitat. Igor Chestin, director of the Russian branch of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), hopes to reintroduce tigers in the region within the next few years, though there is a need to enlarge the potential prey base by increasing the existing populations of saiga antelope, roe deer and wild boar the area.\n\nOn 8 September, 2017, the government of Kazakhstan announced the outline of its tiger reintroduction program and signed a memorandum with the WWF for assistance. Tigers will be introduced in the extensive riparian forest along the southeastern shore of Lake Balkhash. On 1 January, 2018, the government will designate a new nature reserve in the area to restore the degraded habitat and protect it thereafter. The restoration will include the reintroduction of the locally extinct Asiatic wild ass and Bactrian deer. It will also help protect Lake Balkhash. Conservationist hope to engage local communities in the program to help tackle poaching and other illegal activities.\n\nSiberian tigers might be introduced to areas in northern Iran where Caspian tigers once lived. In 2010, a pair of Siberian tigers sent by Russia to Iran's Tehran Zoological Garden (Eram Zoo) in exchange for a pair of Persian leopards were set to be introduced to the Miankaleh peninsula along the southeastern-most shore of the Caspian Sea within the next five years. In December 2010, one of the Siberian tigers at the Eram Zoo died due to a feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) infection. In 2011, Iran requested four more Siberian tigers and invited conservation experts from Russia to support the introduction project for the Caspian Sea coast. Iran received two pairs of Siberian tigers in 2012.\n\nThe future introduction of Siberian tigers is planned as part of the ambitious rewilding project at Pleistocene Park in the Kolyma river basin in northern Sakha (Yakutia), Russia, provided the population of herbivores reaches a size capable of supporting large predators.\n\nA Siberian tiger cub orphaned by poachers was rescued at Primorsky Krai in February 2012. The cub which turned out to be a female was rehabilitated and eventually released back into the wild in May 2013. In 2015, she gave birth to two cubs at Bastak Nature Reserve, becoming the first rehabilitated Siberian tiger to give birth in the wild.\n\nNorth Korea was urged to join Russia and China in saving the Siberian tiger after the latest census revealed that only 562 individuals live in the wild. According to the director of the Amur branch of the WWF, analysis of satellite imagery of North Korea has shown that the northern part of the country has suitable conditions for releasing Siberian tigers. This is supported by the fact that a tigress with two cubs had once crossed the border between Russia and North Korea.\n"}
{"id": "53572309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53572309", "title": "Syedi Nuruddin", "text": "Syedi Nuruddin\n\nSyedi Nuruddin, 11th century famous saint (death: Jumadi al-Ula 11) was Fatimid Ismaili Mustaali Missionary. He was companion of Maulaya Abdullah (Ismaili Mustaali Missionary) to visit of Imam Al-Mustansir Billah, Cairo, Egypt. He joined the Ismaili faith under Fatimid Dai Mu'ayyad fi'l-Din al-Shirazi, and came back to Dongaum, Deccan India to propagate the faith. His earlier name was Rup Nath. His mausoleum is at Don Gaon, Maharashtra, India.\n"}
{"id": "12652442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12652442", "title": "Toarcian turnover", "text": "Toarcian turnover\n\nThe term Toarcian turnover, alternatively the Toarcian extinction, the Pliensbachian-Toarcian extinction, or the Early Jurassic extinction, refers to the wave of extinctions that marked the end of the Pliensbachian stage and the start of the Toarcian stage of the Early Jurassic period, c. 183 million years ago.\n\nThe Toarcian turnover was most strongly manifested in aquatic lifeforms, notably in mollusk groups like ammonites. Its reach was global in extent, as evidenced by research in European (peninsula of Peniche, Portugal) and Japanese waters, the Andean basin, the floor of the former Tethys Sea. Evidence points to anoxic bottom waters as the probable cause of these marine extinctions, linked in turn to the massive volcanism of the Karoo-Ferrar eruptions in the relevant era. The Toarcian turnover was the seventh-largest mass extinction in Earth's history.\n\n"}
{"id": "379514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=379514", "title": "Transarmament", "text": "Transarmament\n\nTransarmament (closely related to civilian-based defense) is the partial or total replacement of armed forces with the physical and social infrastructure to support nonviolent resistance. According to an encyclopedia definition, transarmament is\n\nthe process of changeover from a military-based defense policy to a civilian-based defense policy. Transarmament always involves the replacement of one means to provide defense with another. It therefore differs from \"disarmament,\" which is the simple reduction or abandonment of military capacity. (p 534)\nThe term \"transarmament\" appears to have been introduced in 1937 in a pamphlet by Kenneth Boulding. It appears not to have been used again until the 1960s.\n\nAccording to Adam Roberts,\n\n\"Transarmament\" has later been used—for example, by Johan Galtung—as a technical term to describe a shift in military strategy. Galtung distinguishes between offensive and defense armaments and suggests transitioning to a defensive system of national defense. His use of the term does not imply nonviolence. Galtung advocates precise weapons with limited range and destructive effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2854904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2854904", "title": "Uldarico A. Alviola", "text": "Uldarico A. Alviola\n\nUldarico Aguilar Alviola Sr. (July 4, 1883–January 1, 1966) was a Filipino Visayan novelist, one of the most important Cebuano language writers. His pseudonyms included Artagnan, Sikatuna, and M. Anabell.Also a distinguished lexicographer who made numerous claims on the origins of words, he was the editor of \"Ang Suga Magazine in Cebu Normal University\", and several other Spanish language publications.\n\nIn 1962 he received the LUDABI award for his contributions to Cebuano culture. He was also once a Deputy Governor of Cebu, one of the provinces of the Philippines.\n\n"}
{"id": "97517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=97517", "title": "Unintended consequences", "text": "Unintended consequences\n\nIn the social sciences, unintended consequences (sometimes unanticipated consequences or unforeseen consequences) are outcomes that are not the ones foreseen and intended by a purposeful action. The term was popularised in the twentieth century by American sociologist Robert K. Merton.\n\nUnintended consequences can be grouped into three types:\n\nThe idea of \"unintended consequences\" dates back at least to John Locke who discussed the unintended consequences of interest rate regulation in his letter to Sir John Somers, Member of Parliament.\n\nThe idea was also discussed by Adam Smith, the Scottish Enlightenment, and consequentialism (judging by results).\n\nSociologist Robert K. Merton popularised this concept in the twentieth century.\n\nIn \"The Unanticipated Consequences of Purposive Social Action\" (1936), Merton tried to apply a systematic analysis to the problem of unintended consequences of deliberate acts intended to cause social change. He emphasized that his term \"purposive action\", \"[was exclusively] concerned with 'conduct' as distinct from 'behavior.' That is, with action that involves motives and consequently a choice between various alternatives\". Merton's usage included deviations from what Max Weber defined as rational social action: instrumentally rational and value rational. Merton also stated that \"no blanket statement categorically affirming or denying the practical feasibility of \"all\" social planning is warranted.\"\n\nMore recently, the \"law of unintended consequences\" has come to be used as an adage or idiomatic warning that an intervention in a complex system tends to create unanticipated and often undesirable outcomes.\n\nAkin to Murphy's law, it is commonly used as a wry or humorous warning against the hubristic belief that humans can fully control the world around them.\n\nPossible causes of unintended consequences include the world's inherent complexity (parts of a system responding to changes in the environment), perverse incentives, human stupidity, self-deception, failure to account for human nature, or other cognitive or emotional biases. As a sub-component of complexity (in the scientific sense), the chaotic nature of the universe—and especially its quality of having small, apparently insignificant changes with far-reaching effects (e.g., the butterfly effect)—applies.\n\nRobert K. Merton listed five possible causes of unanticipated consequences in 1936:\n\n\nIn addition to Merton's causes, psychologist Stuart Vyse has noted that groupthink, described by Irving Janis, has been blamed for some decisions that result in unintended consequences.\n\nThe creation of \"no-man's lands\" during the Cold War, in places such as the border between Eastern and Western Europe, and the Korean Demilitarized Zone, has led to large natural habitats.\n\nThe sinking of ships in shallow waters during wartime has created many artificial coral reefs, which can be scientifically valuable and have become an attraction for recreational divers. Retired ships have been purposely sunk in recent years, in an effort to replace coral reefs lost to global warming and other factors.\n\nIn medicine, most drugs have unintended consequences ('side effects') associated with their use. However, some are beneficial. For instance, aspirin, a pain reliever, is also an anticoagulant that can help prevent heart attacks and reduce the severity and damage from thrombotic strokes. The existence of beneficial side effects also leads to off-label use—prescription or use of a drug for an unlicensed purpose. Famously, the drug Viagra was developed to lower blood pressure, with its use for treating erectile dysfunction being discovered as a side effect in clinical trials.\n\nThe implementation of a profanity filter by AOL in 1996 had the unintended consequence of blocking residents of Scunthorpe, North Lincolnshire, England from creating accounts due to a false positive. The accidental censorship of innocent language, known as the Scunthorpe problem, has been repeated and widely documented.\n\nThe objective of microfinance initiatives is to foster micro-entrepreneurs but an unintended consequence can be informal intermediation: That is, some entrepreneurial borrowers become informal intermediaries between microfinance initiatives and poorer micro-entrepreneurs. Those who more easily qualify for microfinance split loans into smaller credit to poorer borrowers. Informal intermediation ranges from casual intermediaries at the good or benign end of the spectrum to 'loan sharks' at the professional and sometimes criminal end of the spectrum.\n\nIn 1990, the Australian state of Victoria made safety helmets mandatory for all bicycle riders. While there was a reduction in the number of head injuries, there was also an unintended reduction in the number of juvenile cyclists—fewer cyclists obviously leads to fewer injuries, assuming all else being equal. The risk of death and serious injury per cyclist seems to have increased, possibly due to risk compensation. Research by Vulcan, \"et al.\" found that the reduction in juvenile cyclists was because the youths considered wearing a bicycle helmet unfashionable. A health-benefit model developed at Macquarie University in Sydney suggests that, while helmet use reduces \"the risk of head or brain injury by approximately two-thirds or more\", the decrease in exercise caused by reduced cycling as a result of helmet laws is counterproductive in terms of net health.\n\nProhibition in the 1920s United States, originally enacted to suppress the alcohol trade, drove many small-time alcohol suppliers out of business and consolidated the hold of large-scale organized crime over the illegal alcohol industry. Since alcohol was still popular, criminal organisations producing alcohol were well-funded and hence also increased their other activities. Similarly, the War on Drugs, intended to suppress the illegal drug trade, instead increased the power and profitability of drug cartels who became the primary source of the products.\n\nIn CIA jargon, \"blowback\" describes the unintended, undesirable consequences of covert operations, such as the funding of the Afghan Mujahideen and the destabilization of Afghanistan contributing to the rise of the Taliban and Al-Qaeda.\n\nThe introduction of exotic animals and plants for food, for decorative purposes, or to control unwanted species often leads to more harm than good done by the introduced species.\n\nThe protection of the steel industry in the United States reduced production of steel in the United States, increased costs to users, and increased unemployment in associated industries.\n\nIn 2003, Barbra Streisand unsuccessfully sued Kenneth Adelman and Pictopia.com for posting a photograph of her home online. Before the lawsuit had been filed, only 6 people had downloaded the file, two of them Streisand's attorneys. The lawsuit drew attention to the image, resulting in 420,000 people visiting the site. The Streisand effect was named after this incident, describing when an attempt to censor or remove a certain piece of information instead draws attention to the material being suppressed, resulting in the material instead becoming widely known, reported on, and distributed.\n\nPassenger-side airbags in motorcars were intended as a safety feature, but led to an increase in child fatalities in the mid-1990s as small children were being hit by deploying airbags during collisions. The supposed solution to this problem, moving the child seat to the back of the vehicle, led to an increase in the number of children forgotten in unattended vehicles, some of whom died under extreme temperature conditions.\n\nRisk compensation, or the Peltzman effect, occurs after implementation of safety measures intended to reduce injury or death (e.g. bike helmets, seatbelts, etc.). People may feel safer than they really are and take additional risks which they would not have taken without the safety measures in place. This may result in no change, or even an increase, in morbidity or mortality, rather than a decrease as intended.\n\nThe British government, concerned about the number of venomous cobra snakes in Delhi, offered a bounty for every dead cobra. This was a successful strategy as large numbers of snakes were killed for the reward. Eventually, enterprising people began breeding cobras for the income. When the government became aware of this, they scrapped the reward program, causing the cobra breeders to set the now-worthless snakes free. As a result, the wild cobra population further increased. The apparent solution for the problem made the situation even worse, becoming known as the Cobra effect.\n\nTheobald Mathew's temperance campaign in 19th-century Ireland resulted in thousands of people vowing never to drink alcohol again. This led to the consumption of diethyl ether, a much more dangerous intoxicant — due to its high flammability — by those seeking to become intoxicated without breaking the letter of their pledge.\n\nIt was thought that adding south-facing conservatories to British houses would reduce energy consumption by providing extra insulation and warmth from the sun. However, people tended to use the conservatories as living areas, installing heating and ultimately increasing overall energy consumption.\n\nA reward for lost nets found along the Normandy coast was offered by the French government between 1980 and 1981. This resulted in people vandalizing nets to collect the reward.\n\nBeginning in the 1940s and continuing into the 1960s, the Canadian federal government gave the Catholic Church in Quebec $2.25 per day per psychiatric patient for their cost of care, but only $0.75 a day per orphan. The perverse result is that the orphan children were diagnosed as mentally ill so the church could receive the larger amount of money. This psychiatric misdiagnosis affected up to 20,000 people, and the children are known as the Duplessis Orphans.\n\nThere have been attempts to curb the consumption of sugary beverages by imposing a tax on them. However, a study found that the reduced consumption was only temporary. Also, there was an increase in the consumption of beer among households.\n\nThe New Jersey Childproof Handgun Law, which was intended to protect children from accidental discharge of firearms by forcing all future firearms sold in New Jersey to contain \"smart\" safety features, has delayed, if not stopped entirely, the introduction of such firearms to New Jersey markets. The wording of the law caused significant public backlash, fuelled by gun rights lobbyists, and several shop owners offering such guns received death threats and stopped stocking them In 2014, 12 years after the law was passed, it was suggested the law be repealed if gun rights lobbyists agree not to resist the introduction of \"smart\" firearms.\n\nDrug prohibition can lead drug traffickers to prefer stronger, more dangerous substances, that can be more easily smuggled and distributed than other, less concentrated substances.\n\nTelevised drug prevention advertisements may lead to increased drug use.\n\nAbstinence-only sex education has been shown to increase teenage pregnancy rates, rather than reduce them, when compared to either comprehensive sex education or no sex education at all.\n\nIncreasing usage of search engines, also including recent image search features, has contributed in the ease of which media is consumed. Some abnormalities in usage may have shifted preferences for pornographic film actors, as the producers began using common search queries or tags to label the actors in new roles.\n\nThe passage of the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act has led to a reported increase in risky behaviors by sex workers as a result of quashing their ability to seek and screen clients online, forcing them back onto the streets or into the dark web. The ads posted were previously an avenue for advocates to reach out to those wanting to escape the trade.\n\nMost modern technologies have negative consequences that are both unavoidable and unpredictable. For example, almost all environmental problems, from chemical pollution to global warming, are the unexpected consequences of the application of modern technologies. Traffic congestion, deaths and injuries from car accidents, air pollution, and global warming are unintended consequences of the invention and large scale adoption of the automobile. Hospital infections are the unexpected side-effect of antibiotic resistance, and even human overpopulation is the side effect of various technological (i.e., agricultural and industrial) revolutions.\n\nBecause of the complexity of ecosystems, deliberate changes to an ecosystem or other environmental interventions will often have (usually negative) unintended consequences. Sometimes, these effects cause permanent irreversible changes. Examples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3165058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3165058", "title": "Vertebrobasilar insufficiency", "text": "Vertebrobasilar insufficiency\n\nVertebrobasilar insufficiency (VBI) or vertebral-basilar ischemia, also called beauty parlour syndrome (BPS), is a temporary set of symptoms due to decreased blood flow (ischemia) in the posterior circulation of the brain. The posterior circulation supplies blood to the medulla, cerebellum, pons, midbrain, thalamus, and occipital cortex (responsible for vision). Therefore, the symptoms due to VBI vary according to which portions of the brain experience significantly decreased blood flow (see image of brain ). In the United States, 25% of strokes and transient ischemic attacks occur in the vertebrobasilar distribution. These must be separated from strokes arising from the anterior circulation, which involves the carotid arteries.\n\nVertigo, the sensation of spinning even while a person is still, is the most recognizable and quite often the sole symptom of decreased blood flow in the vertebrobasilar distribution. The vertigo due to VBI can be brought on by head turning, which could occlude the contralateral vertebral artery and result in decreased blood flow to the brain if the contralateral artery is occluded. When the vertigo is accompanied by double vision (diplopia), graying of vision, and blurred vision, patients often go to the optometrist or ophthalmologist. If the VBI progresses, there may be weakness of the quadriceps and, to the patient, this is felt as a buckling of the knees. The patient may suddenly become weak at the knee and crumple (often referred to as a “drop attack”). Such a fall can lead to significant head and orthopedic injury, especially in the elderly.\n\nTransient ischemic attacks due to VBI will, by definition, have symptoms resolved within 24 hours. More often, however, the symptoms are very brief, lasting a few seconds to half an hour. \n\nThe evaluation for VBI starts with a history and physical exam, with great emphasis on the cardiovascular and neurologic exam. It also includes a work-up to exclude benign conditions (such as labyrinthitis, vestibular neuronitis, and benign paroxysmal positional vertigo) that have overlapping signs and symptoms. However, the exact work-up largely depends on the patient’s age and known risk factors. For middle-aged patients, a cardiovascular risk factor evaluation is important. This often includes a cholesterol level, lipid profile (see this to determine what your cholesterol level means), ECG, and echocardiogram. If a person with VBI is under age 45 and has no evidence for atherosclerosis, a work-up for hypercoagulable states (Lupus anticoagulant, anti-cardiolipin antibodies, is indicated. Screening for protein C, protein S, or antithrombin III deficiency is sometimes recommended but these are more usually responsible for venous thrombosis than arterial problems.\n\nImaging studies are rarely required to diagnose VBI, but sometimes computed tomography (CT) is performed first. The CT is extremely sensitive in detecting hemorrhage. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is superior to the CT in detecting ischemic changes in the vertebrobasilar distribution. Magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) also can be used to identify vertebrobasilar stenoses or occlusions, but it can often overestimate the degree of stenosis, or wrongly show stenosis as an occlusion. Intracranial MRA is mostly sufficient to evaluate vertebrobasilar arteries, while extracranial vertebral arteries are better diagnosed using contrast-enhanced MRA, which is less dependent on flow phenomena and more accurate in evaluating stenosis.\n\nCT angiography is also highly accurate in evaluation vertebrobasilar vessels, but ionizing radiation and use of nephrotoxic contrast media make it less suitable both in elderly with renal insufficiency and young adults because of radiation exposure. Moreover, vessel wall calcification and beam-hardening artifacts due to dense bones or metal fillings sometimes cause strong CT-image degradation.\n\nPatients should discuss with their physician possible causes for their VBI symptoms. As discussed above, postural changes, exercise, and dehydration are some of the likely culprits. Treatment usually involves lifestyle modifications. For example, if VBI is attributed mainly to postural changes, patients are advised to slowly rise to standing position after sitting for a long period of time. An appropriate exercise regimen for each patient can also be designed in order to avoid the excessive pooling of blood in the legs. Dehydrated patients are often advised to increase their water intake, especially in hot, dry climates. Finally, when applicable, patients are often advised to stop smoking and to control their hypertension, diabetes, and cholesterol level.\n\nIn the event that a patient suffers a “drop attack,” and especially for the elderly population, the most important action is to be evaluated for associated head or other injuries. To prevent drop attacks, patients are advised to “go to the ground” before the knees buckle and shortly after feeling dizzy or experiencing changes in vision. Patients should not be concerned about the social consequences of suddenly sitting on the floor, whether in the mall or sidewalk, as such actions are important in preventing serious injuries.\n\nSometimes, to prevent further occlusion of blood vessels, patients are started on an antiplatelet agent (aspirin, clopidogrel, or aspirin/dipyridamole) or sometimes an anticoagulant (warfarin) once hemorrhage has been excluded with imaging.\n\nFor treatment of vertebrobasilar stenosis due to atherosclerosis, researchers from Stanford University found that intracranial angioplasty can be performed with an annual stroke rate in the territory of treatment of 3.2% and 4.4% for all strokes, including periprocedural events. Randomized control trials need to be performed.\n\nThe incidence of VBI increases with age and typically occurs in the seventh or eighth decade of life. Reflecting atherosclerosis, which is the most common cause of VBI, it affects men twice as often as women and patients with hypertension, diabetes, smoking, and dyslipidemias have a higher risk of developing VBI. \n\nVBI, often provoked by sudden and temporary drops in blood pressure, can cause transient ischemic attacks. Postural changes (see orthostatic hypotension), such as getting out of bed too quickly or standing up after sitting for extended periods of time, often provoke these attacks. Exercise of the legs, or the sudden cessation of leg exercises, may also bring on the symptoms of VBI. For the sedentary older subject, going up a flight of stairs or walking the dog may be enough to cause pooling of blood in the legs and a drop in blood pressure in the distal arteries of the head. Heat and dehydration may also be contributing causes.\n\nMechanical forces acting upon the neck at any age can cause VBI by exacerbating arterial insufficiency or outright occluding one or both vertebrobasilar arteries. Internal forces include those caused by turning the head to an extreme angle to the side, especially with the neck extended. The patient can create this condition while driving a vehicle in reverse, shooting a bow and arrow, bird watching, or stargazing. There was a study demonstrating the relationship between VBI and yoga practice, though this subject is in need of updated research. External forces include those caused by sports or other physical contact.\n\nVBI was first reported in the early 1990s when an American neurologist identified five patients who suffered strokes as a result of prolonged distortion of their necks from sitting at salon wash basins.\n\nIn 1997 medical journal The Lancet published a report by two British doctors about a 42-year-old woman who suffered a stroke after having her hair washed.\n\nThe experts said the stroke was due to \"dissection of her right internal carotid artery. Her head had been extended backwards for about five minutes while being washed and after the treatment she felt numb and suffered slurred speech.\" It is worth noting that, although this is a classic example of \"Beauty Parlour Syndrome\", the artery involved was not part of the vertebrobasilar system and the stroke resulted from acute dissection not chronic insufficiency.\n\nThe doctors recommended that hairdressers use a cushion and that the neck is not overextended. As a result, several sink cushions have been developed. Trainee hairdressers are also being taught to make sure that their clients are comfortable. Several recent studies of the causes of strokes have identified how salon washing basins exert stress on the neck, causing the carotid or vertebral arteries to tear.\n\nOther such triggers, which normally require ten minutes of neck over-extension, include fairground rides, dentists’ chairs, sit-up exercises and yoga. Another cause, known as Golden Gate Bridge Syndrome, is prompted by excessive strain of looking up.\n"}
{"id": "24877063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24877063", "title": "William FitzGerald, 13th Earl of Kildare", "text": "William FitzGerald, 13th Earl of Kildare\n\nWilliam FitzGerald, 13th Earl of Kildare (\"c.\" 1563 – March 1599) was an Irish nobleman.\n\nFitzGerald was the third son of Gerald FitzGerald, 11th Earl of Kildare and Mabel Browne, and the younger brother of Henry, the 12th Earl.\n\nReturning from a visit to England in March 1599, prepared to accompany Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex in the war against Hugh O'Neill, Earl of Tyrone, he perished at sea with \"eighteen of the chiefs of Meath and Fingall\".\n\nFitzGerald also succeeded to the title of 3rd Baron of Offaly on 1 August 1597.\n\n"}
{"id": "43183004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43183004", "title": "William H. Herriman", "text": "William H. Herriman\n\nWilliam Henry Herriman (7 February 1829 – 26 July 1918) was an expatriate American art collector in Rome who, on his death, left important works of art to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the Brooklyn Museum.\n\nWilliam Henry Herriman was the second son (and third child) of the wealthy Brooklyn businessman and President of Long Island Bank, William S. Herriman and his wife Maria Belle Stillwell Frecke/Freeke. William H. married Elizabeth Herriman née Wyckoff (23 April 1834 – 5 May 1910).\n\nHis sister was Caroline Herriman Polhemus (died 1906), the wife of Henry Ditmas Polhemus. After his death, she founded the Polhemus Memorial Clinic, the first \"skyscraper hospital\", in honour of her late husband, who had served as the Regent of Long Island College Hospital (LICH) from 1872 until his death in 1895. She also founded the Herriman Home in Monsey, Rockland County.\n\nHerriman and his wife first lived in Brooklyn, New York, but moved to Rome in 1865. Their friend, Maitland Armstrong, said of them: \"They exercised a quiet and generous hospitality in their delightful apartment, and were among the best friends the American artists had, for they bought their pictures, befriended them in their need, nursed them in sickness, and lent them money when they were hard up. Mr. Herriman was a wise collector, not only of pictures but of all sorts of rare objects of art.\"\n\nHerriman left a large number of works to the Brooklyn Museum on his death, including Jean-François Millet's 1860s painting, \"Shepherd Tending His Flock\". He left fewer works to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, but among those he did donate to them was one of the most important that he owned, Gustave Moreau's 1864 \"Oedipus and the Sphinx\", one of the few Moreau paintings in private hands. On his death Moreau had left all of his extant paintings to the French nation where they formed the basis for the subsequent Gustave Moreau Museum. Accordingly, important Moreau paintings are scarce outside France. Herriman had purchased \"Oedipus and the Sphinx\" in 1868 during Moreau's lifetime and it was installed at 93, Piazza di Spagna, Rome, by January 1869.\n\nHerriman was also a benefactor to the American Academy in Rome Library and with J. P. Morgan, paid for the completion of Saint Paul's church murals in that city, unveiled in 1913.\n\nHerriman died in Rome on 26 July 1918. Elizabeth also died in Rome. Both are buried at the Non-Catholic Cemetery in Rome, as are the poets John Keats and Percy Bysshe Shelley. The Herrimans had no children. Herriman left two wills, one covering his Italian assets to the value of $231,000 and another covering his United States assets, value $2,500,000. His paintings were divided between The Brooklyn Museum of Arts and Science, the American Academy in Rome and various American and Italian institutions.\n"}
{"id": "1853175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853175", "title": "Winner-take-all (computing)", "text": "Winner-take-all (computing)\n\nWinner-take-all is a computational principle applied in computational models of neural networks by which neurons in a layer compete with each other for activation. In the classical form, only the neuron with the highest activation stays active while all other neurons shut down; however, other variations allow more than one neuron to be active, for example the soft winner take-all, by which a power function is applied to the neurons.\n\nIn the theory of artificial neural networks, winner-take-all networks are a case of competitive learning in recurrent neural networks. Output nodes in the network mutually inhibit each other, while simultaneously activating themselves through reflexive connections. After some time, only one node in the output layer will be active, namely the one corresponding to the strongest input. Thus the network uses nonlinear inhibition to pick out the largest of a set of inputs. Winner-take-all is a general computational primitive that can be implemented using different types of neural network models, including both continuous-time and spiking networks (Grossberg, 1973; Oster et al. 2009).\n\nWinner-take-all networks are commonly used in computational models of the brain, particularly for distributed decision-making or action selection in the cortex. Important examples include hierarchical models of vision (Riesenhuber et al. 1999), and models of selective attention and recognition (Carpenter and Grossberg, 1987; Itti et al. 1998). They are also common in artificial neural networks and neuromorphic analog VLSI circuits. It has been formally proven that the winner-take-all operation is computationally powerful compared to other nonlinear operations, such as thresholding (Maass 2000).\n\nIn many practical cases, there is not only a single neuron which becomes the only active one but there are exactly \"k\" neurons which become active for a fixed number \"k\". This principle is referred to as k-winners-take-all.\n\nA simple, but popular CMOS winner-take-all circuit is shown on the right. This circuit was originally proposed by Lazzaro et al. (1989) using MOS transistors biased to operate in the weak-inversion or subthreshold regime. In the particular case shown there are only two inputs (\"I\" and \"I\"), but the circuit can be easily extended to multiple inputs in a straightforward way. It operates on continuous-time input signals (currents) in parallel, using only two transistors per input. In addition, the bias current \"I\" is set by a single global transistor that is common to all the inputs.\n\nThe largest of the input currents sets the common potential \"V\". As a result, the corresponding output carries almost all the bias current, while the other outputs have currents that are close to zero. Thus, the circuit selects the larger of the two input currents, i.e., if \"I\" > \"I\", we get \"I\" = \"I\" and \"I\" = 0. Similarly, if \"I\" > \"I\", we get \"I\" = 0 and \"I\" = \"I\".\n\nA SPICE-based DC simulation of the CMOS winner-take-all circuit in the two-input case is shown on the right. As shown in the top subplot, the input \"I\" was fixed at 6nA, while \"I\" was linearly increased from 0 to 10nA. The bottom subplot shows the two output currents. As expected, the output corresponding to the larger of the two inputs carries the entire bias current (10nA in this case), forcing the other output current nearly to zero.\n\nIn stereo matching algorithms, following the taxonomy proposed by Scharstein et al. (IJCV 2002), winner-take-all is a local method for disparity computation. Adopting a winner-take-all strategy, the disparity associated with the minimum or maximum cost value is selected at each pixel.\n\nIt is axiomatic that in the electronic commerce market, early dominant players such as AOL or Yahoo! get most of the rewards. By 1998, one study found the top 5% of all web sites garnered more than 74% of all traffic.\n\nThe winner take all hypothesis suggests that once a technology or a firm gets ahead, it will do better and better over time, whereas lagging technology and firms will fall further behind.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1027466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1027466", "title": "X Prize Foundation", "text": "X Prize Foundation\n\nXPRIZE is a nonprofit organization that designs and manages public competitions intended to encourage technological development that could benefit humanity. Their Board of Trustees include James Cameron, Larry Page, Arianna Huffington, Ratan Tata among others.\n\nThe XPRIZE mission is to bring about \"radical breakthroughs for the benefit of humanity\" through incentivized competition. It fosters high-profile competitions to motivate individuals, companies and organizations across all disciplines to develop innovative ideas and technologies that help solve the grand challenges that restrict humanity's progress.\n\nThe highest-profile XPRIZE to date was the Ansari X Prize relating to spacecraft development awarded in 2004. This prize was intended to inspire research and development into technology for space exploration.\n\nThe first XPRIZE – the Ansari XPRIZE – was inspired by the Orteig Prize, a $25,000 prize offered in 1919 by French hotelier Raymond Orteig for the first nonstop flight between New York City and Paris. In 1927, underdog Charles Lindbergh won the prize in a modified single-engine Ryan aircraft called the Spirit of St. Louis. In total, nine teams spent $400,000 in pursuit of the Orteig Prize.\n\nIn 1996, entrepreneur Peter Diamandis offered a $10-million prize to the first privately financed team that could build and fly a three-passenger vehicle 100 kilometers into space twice within two weeks. The contest, later titled the Ansari XPRIZE for Suborbital Spaceflight, motivated 26 teams from seven nations to invest more than $100 million in pursuit of the $10 million purse. On October 4, 2004, the Ansari XPRIZE was won by Mojave Aerospace Ventures, who successfully completed the contest in their spacecraft SpaceShipOne. The prize was awarded in a ceremony at the Saint Louis Science Center in St. Louis, Missouri. As of 2011, the Science Center maintains numerous exhibits about the XPRIZE.\n\nThe foundation has also created the XPRIZE Cup rocket challenge competition.\n\nXPRIZES are monetary rewards to incentivize three primary goals:\n\n\nOther organizations such as the Nobel Prize committee award prizes and financial rewards to individuals or organizations that produce novel advances in science, medicine and technology. One difference between the XPRIZES and other similar organizations is awarding prizes based on the first to achieve objective 'finish line' requirements rather than a selection committee discussing the relative merits of different endeavors. For instance, the Archon Genomics XPRIZE target was to sequence 100 human genomes in 10 days or less, with less than one error per 100,000 DNA base pairs, covering 98% of the genome and costing less than $10,000 per genome (this prize was cancelled because it was outpaced by innovation).\n\nThe prize can increase attention to endeavors that otherwise might not receive much publicity. For example, attempts in the recent Lunar Lander competition have been well publicized in the media, increasing visibility of both the foundation and the participants.\n\nWith the Ansari XPRIZE, XPRIZE established a model in which offering a prize for achieving a specific goal can stimulate entrepreneurial investment. Since then, new challenges have expanded into a range of other fields. XPRIZE is developing new prizes in Exploration (Space and Oceans), Life Sciences, Energy & Environment, Education and Global Development. Some hope the prizes will help improve lives, create equity of opportunity and stimulate new, important discoveries.\n\nAs of January 2018, there are seven completed contests, eight active contests and one contest that has been canceled.\n\nThe Ansari XPRIZE for Suborbital Spaceflight was the first prize from the foundation. It successfully challenged teams to build private spaceships capable of carrying three people and fly two times within two weeks to open the space frontier. The first part of the Ansari XPRIZE requirements was fulfilled by Mike Melvill on September 29, 2004 On SpaceShipOne, a spacecraft designed by Burt Rutan and financed by Paul Allen, co-founder and former CEO of Microsoft. On that ship, Melvill broke the 100-kilometer (62.5 mi) mark, internationally recognized as the boundary of outer space, winning the prize. Brian Binnie completed the second part of the requirements on October 4, 2004. As a result, US$10 million was awarded to the winner, but more than $100 million was invested in new technologies in pursuit of the prize. Today, Sir Richard Branson, Jeff Bezos and others are creating a personal spaceflight industry.\n\nAwarding this first prize gave XPRIZE as much publicity as the winners themselves. After the 2004 success there was ample media coverage to afford both Scaled Composites and XPRIZE additional support for them to expand and continue to pursue their aims. Following this early success several other XPRIZES were announced that have yet to be awarded despite various attempts to meet the requirements.\n\nThe Ansari XPRIZE won the Space Foundation's Douglas S. Morrow Public Outreach Award in 2005. The award is given annually to an individual or organization that has made significant contributions to public awareness of space programs.\n\nThe goal of the Progressive Insurance Automotive XPRIZE was to design, build and race super-efficient vehicles that achieve 100 MPGe (2.35 liter/100 kilometer) efficiency, produce less than 200 grams/mile well-to-wheel CO equivalent emissions, and could be manufactured for the mass market.\n\nThe winners of the competition were announced on September 16, 2010.\n\nThe Wendy Schmidt Oil Cleanup XCHALLENGE was introduced on July 29, 2010. The $1 million prize had a goal to inspire a new generation of innovative solutions that will speed the pace of cleaning up seawater surface oil resulting from spillage from ocean platforms, tankers, and other sources. The team of Elastec/American Marine won the challenge by developing a device that skims oil off water three times faster than previously existing technology.\n\nThe Northrop Grumman Lunar Lander XCHALLENGE (NGLLXPC) was a competition (co-hosted by NASA) to build precise, efficient small rocket systems. It was introduced in 2006 and awarded on November 5, 2009 in Washington D.C. to Masten Space Systems, led by David Masten, the top $1 million prize, while Armadillo Aerospace, led by id Software founder John Carmack took home the second place prize of $500,000, plus an additional $500,000 in 2008.\n\nThe Nokia Sensing XCHALLENGE goal is accelerating the use of sensors and sensing technology to tackle health care problems and find ways for people to monitor and maintain their personal well-being. It was composed of two distinct Challenges held in 2013 and 2014. It was announced in 2012 and 12 finalists announced in 2013. On November 11, 2014 the winner was named and prize purses totaling $2.25 million were awarded.\n\nThe Wendy Schmidt Ocean Health XPRIZE is a $2 million competition to improve our understanding of ocean acidification. On July 20, 2015 the winners of the challenge were announced.\n\nThe Qualcomm Tricorder XPRIZE was announced on May 10, 2011, and is sponsored by Qualcomm Foundation. It was officially launched on January 10, 2012. The $10 million prize is awarded for creating a mobile device that can \"diagnose patients better than or equal to a panel of board certified physicians\". The name is taken from the tricorder device in \"Star Trek\" which can be used to instantly diagnose ailments.\n\nThe Google Lunar XPRIZE was introduced on September 13, 2007. The goal of the prize was similar to that of the Ansari XPRIZE, to inspire a new generation of private investment in space exploration and technology. The challenge called for teams to compete in successfully launching, landing, and operating a rover on the lunar surface. The prize was going to award $20 million to the first team to land a rover on the moon that successfully roved more than 500 meters and transmitted back high definition images and video. There was a $5 million second prize, as well as $5 million in potential bonus prizes for extra features such as roving long distances (greater than 5,000 meters) capturing images of man-made objects on the moon, or surviving a lunar night.\n\nOn January 23, 2018, the prize ended when no team was able to schedule, confirm and pay for a launch attempt. The X Prize Foundation announced that \"no team would be able to make a launch attempt to reach the Moon by the 31 March 2018 deadline... and the US$30 million Google Lunar XPRIZE will go unclaimed.\"\n\nOn October 20, 2018, the XPRIZE Foundation awarded The Water Abundance XPRIZE, which launched on October 24, 2016 with a purse of $1.75 million provided by the Tata Group and Australian Aid, to the Skysource/Skywater Alliance based in Venice, California, who received a grand prize of $1.5 million. An additional award of $150,000 went to the second place team, JMCC WING, based in South Point, Hawaii, to acknowledge the team’s ingenuity in developing a unique technological approach. The winning system was based on three Skywater 300 atmospheric water generators powered by an All Power Labs (APL) PP30 Biomass Gasifier Genset installed at the APL facility in Berkeley, California. During a 24 hour period ending on September 29, 2018, the system succeeded in extracting over 2,000 liters of water from the atmosphere and additional residual moisture from the drying of the woodchips used to fuel the gasifier. Their system, as required by the prize rules, used 100% renewable energy and resulted in a final cost of less than 2 cents per liter. The team, composed of David Hertz, Laura Doss-Hertz, and Richard Groden from Skysource and Jim Mason from APL along with Bear Kaufman, Jay Hasty and the rest of their staff from APL and Skywater, intend to use the award to productize the system to address water scarcity in the developing world. \n\nThe Archon Genomics XPRIZE, the second XPRIZE to be offered by the foundation, was announced October 4, 2006. The goal of the Archon Genomics XPRIZE was to greatly reduce the cost and increase the speed of human genome sequencing to create a new era of personalized, predictive and preventive medicine, eventually transforming medical care from reactive to proactive. The $10 million prize purse was promised to the first team that can build a device and use it to sequence 100 human genomes within 10 days or less, with an accuracy of no more than one error in every 100,000 bases sequenced, with sequences accurately covering at least 98% of the genome, and at a recurring cost of no more than $1,000 per genome.\n\nIf more than one team attempted the competition at the same time, and more than one team fulfilled all the criteria, then teams would have been ranked according to the time of completion. No more than three teams would have been ranked and would have shared the purse in the following manner: $7.5 million to the winner and $2.5 million to the second place team if two teams were successful, or $7 million, $2 million and $1 million if three teams are successful.\n\nActual competition events were originally scheduled to take place twice a year with all eligible teams given the opportunity to make an attempt, starting at precisely the same time as the other teams. This was changed to a single competition scheduled for September 5, 2013 to October 1, 2013, which was canceled on August 22, 2013. The rationale for the change was articulated by the CEO: \"Today, companies can do this for less than $5,000 per genome, in a few days or less – and are moving quickly towards the goals we set for the prize. For this reason, we have decided to cancel an XPRIZE for the first time ever.\"\n\nThe Global Learning XPRIZE, launched in September 2014, is a $15-million prize to create mobile apps to improve reading, writing, and arithmetic in developing nations. Each application will be developed during an 18-month period and the top five teams will receive $1 million each, with each of the winning apps being made available under an open source license. The finalist of the group, that then develops an app producing the highest performance gains, will win an additional $10 million top prize.\n\nThe A.I. XPRIZE was announced as having an aim to use an artificial intelligence system to deliver a compelling TED talk. Diamandis hopes to contrast the benevolent value of AI against the dystopian point of view that sometimes enter AI conversations. The winning team of the contest, which is scheduled for 2020, will be determined by the audience.\n\nOn December 14, 2015, Peter Diamandis, chairman and CEO of X Prize, announced the launch of a new $7 million prize that will be a three-year global competition that challenges researchers to build better technologies for mapping Earth's seafloor.\n\nOn September 29, 2015, Peter Diamandis, chairman and CEO of X Prize, announced the launch of a $20 million prize for a 4.5-year competition on testing technologies which converts CO into products with the highest net value to reduce carbon dioxide emissions of either a coal or a natural gas power plant. Round three began in April 2018 as the 27 semifinalists were cut down to ten finalists; each receiving an equal share of $5 million milestone prize money. Five teams will compete at in coal-fired power plant in Gillette, Wyoming and the remaining five teams will compete at a natural gas-fired power plant in Alberta, Canada. In February 2020 this operational round will conclude and winners will be announced the following month.\n\nFind solutions how to improve literacy proficiency of adults in reading within a 12-month period.\nThe challenge has been announced on June 8, 2015 and is awarded with $7 million by Barbara Bush Foundation for Family Literacy and the Dollar General Literacy Foundation. The winners will be announced in January 2019.\n\nThe Anu & Naveen Jain Women's Safety XPRIZE was launched on October 24, 2016 and has a $1 million purse. The goal for competing teams is to develop a safety device for women that can autonomously and inconspicuously trigger an emergency alert while transmitting information to a network of community responders.\n\nThe $10 million ANA Avatar XPRIZE is a four-year competition focused on accelerating the integration of emerging and exponential technologies into a multipurpose avatar system that will seamlessly transport human skills and experience to the exact location where and when they are needed.\n\nConsidering the potential of Indian talent, X Prize Foundation set up a trust/NGO in November 2014 in Mumbai, India. \n\nThe XPRIZE Foundation is governed by a Board of Directors that determine the annual roadmaps and act as stewards for the Foundation. As of January 2018, the Board of Directors are:\n\nThe XPRIZE Foundation also has a Board of Trustees that provides insights on new technologies, grand challenges requiring significant innovation, and other areas that lend themselves to prize philanthropy. A sample of the Trustees includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32798466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32798466", "title": "Yutaka Hagawa", "text": "Yutaka Hagawa\n\nHagawa played on the Japan Golf Tour, winning five times.\n\n\n\n"}
