{"id": "3709201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3709201", "title": "12th century in literature", "text": "12th century in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in the 12th century.\n\nThe 12th century in Western Europe saw an increase in the production of Latin texts and a proliferation of literate clerics from the multiplying cathedral schools. At the same time, vernacular literatures ranging from Provençal to Icelandic embodied in lyric and romance the values and worldview of an increasingly self-conscious and prosperous courtly aristocracy. These two trends contributed to a sweeping revival of letters with a lasting influence on the development of literature in the following centuries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8900141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8900141", "title": "1935 in radio", "text": "1935 in radio\n\nThe year 1935 saw a number of significant happenings in radio broadcasting history.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56191357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56191357", "title": "2018 in poetry", "text": "2018 in poetry\n\nNationality words link to articles with information on the natioqern's poetry or literature (for instance, Irish or France).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Alphabetical listing by author name\"\n\nAwards announced this year:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBirth years link to the corresponding \"[year] in poetry\" article:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36932077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36932077", "title": "Adriana Acosta", "text": "Adriana Acosta\n\nAdriana Inés Acosta (Lomas de Zamora, 19 January 1956 – disappeared on 27 May 1978 in Buenos Aires) was an Argentine militant and field hockey player who was kidnapped by the military dictatorship that ruled Argentina from 1976 to 1983. On 1972 she integrated and was captain of the metropolitan champion youth team Lomas Athletic Club. On 1973 she was captain of the Buenos Aires team that won the Argentine championship. She also integrated the youth and the national field hockey team. During the dictatorship that took the power on 1976, she maintained a militancy against the regime. She was kidnapped on 27 May 1978, when she was 22 years old, and was taken to the clandestine detention center known as El Banco. She is still missing since then.\n\nIn her memory, the field hockey court in the CeNARD, has her name.\n"}
{"id": "7005871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7005871", "title": "Ahmed Resmî Efendi", "text": "Ahmed Resmî Efendi\n\nAchmet Resmî Efendi (English, \"Ahmed Efendi of Resmo\"), also called by some Arabic sources as Ahmed bin İbrahim Giridî (\"Ahmed the son of İbrahim the Cretan\"), was a Greek-Ottoman statesman, diplomat and author of the late 18th century. In international relations terms, his most important - and unfortunate - task was to act as the chief of the Ottoman delegation during the negotiations and the signature of the Treaty of Küçük Kaynarca. In the literary domain, he is remembered for various works among which his sefâretnâme recounting his embassies in Berlin and Vienna occupy a prominent place. He was Turkey's first ever ambassador in Berlin.\n\nAhmed Resmi was born into a family of Greek descent in the Cretan town of Rethymno, which was known as Resmo in the Ottoman Empire in the year 1700. According to Muhammed Muradî, the source for the little that is known concerning his early life, Ahmed Resmî arrived in İstanbul towards his forties, in 1734. Most sources credit him with expertise in the calligraphic and epistolary arts. Rising through the Ottoman bureaucracy, he allied himself with a circle of reformers, who transformed diplomatic relations of the Ottomans with Europe in the 18th century and established some of the first privately endowed public libraries of Istanbul.\n\nWhen his father-in-law and first patron Tavukçubaşı Mustafa, a diplomat and one of the prominent figures in grand vizier Koca Mehmed Ragıp Pasha's entourage, died in 1749, Ahmed Resmî began writing his first work, the bibliographical compilation of Ottoman chief scribes \"Sefinet ür-rüesa\". It was in this period that he wrote \"İstinas fi ahval el-efras\", to demonstrate his scribal and literary skills, celebrating the spring ritual of releasing the royal horses for grazing and which served as an encomium to the Sultan Mahmud I. These works also served as a means of introduction to potential patrons, such as grand vizier Köse Bahir Mustafa Pasha.\n\nAhmed Resmî was appointed in late 1757 to an embassy to Vienna to announce the accession of Mustafa III to the throne. In 1749, he also composed \"Hamilet el-kübera\", a biographical list of the chief black eunuchs (kızlar ağaları) of the Palace.\n\nThe embassy to Vienna was followed by a similar appointment, the first ever Turkish embassy to the court of Frederick the Great in Berlin in 1763/1764. After both embassies, Ahmed Resmî submitted detailed reports on the geography of his passage and the politics of the courts he encountered. In the case of the Berlin embassy, he left behind not just an account of diplomatic niceties but also a portrayal of Frederick and the description of the Seven Years' War. His tentative observations inaugurated a new emphasis for the Ottoman Empire on the need to study European politics.\n\nUpon his return from Berlin, he was appointed chief correspondence officer (\"mektupçu\") to the grand vizier. In 1765, he became chief sergeant-at-arms (\"çavuşbaşı\") and began his long connection with Muhsinzade Mehmed Pasha, who was twice appointed grand vizier. Among his other appointments to the highest offices was his brief posting as second-in-command (\"sadaret kethüdası\") to grand vizier Moldovanlı Ali Pasha in 1769 while the grand vizier was on the Bulgarian battlefront. He served in this capacity again with Muhsinzade Mehmed Pasha from 1771 until the grand vizier’s death at the end of the Russo-Turkish War, 1768-1774. Ahmed Resmî was present at many of the war councils on the battlefield and was noted for his largesse toward wounded soldiers. His quarrels with and observations on the head of the Ottoman delegation during the ten-month truce between the two episodes of the war, Çenebaz Osman Efendi or Yenişehirli Osman Efendi, by the name either of a town near Bursa or now in Greece, was recorded by him in one of the most vivid accounts of the war.\n\nEven though the above-mentioned three posts were considered stepping-stones to the office of grand vizier, he never achieved that status. It is likely that Ahmed Resmî’s regular and scathing criticism of the state of Ottoman military organization played a major role in this turn of events.\n\nAhmed Resmî acted as first plenipotentiary (\"murahhas-ı evvel\") to the Küçük Kaynarca peace negotiations in 1774 and became one of the signatories of the resulting treaty. He understandably disappeared from the appointment rolls for some time after 1775. Ahmed Resmî resurfaced one last time as chief of the palace cavalry bureau (\"süvari mukabelecisi\") under grand vizier Halil Hamid Pasha, probably in recognition of his continuous service behind the scenes in difficult negotiations with Russia over the future of the Crimea and the Tatars. Ahmed Resmî died in August 1783, shortly before the Aynalıkavak Convention ceding the Crimea to Catherine II was signed in early 1784. One son is said to have preceded Ahmed Resmî to the grave; no other information has been discovered to date concerning his family life.\n\n\nHis two works on Vienna and Berlin embassies have been translated into German by Joseph von Hammer in 1809.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52378453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52378453", "title": "Alan Forey", "text": "Alan Forey\n\nAlan John Forey (born 1933) is reader emeritus in history at the University of Durham and an authority on the history of the military orders of the middle ages. In 1994, his work was collected and published in the Variorum Collected Studies series as \"Military Orders and Crusades\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1989378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1989378", "title": "Alene Duerk", "text": "Alene Duerk\n\nAlene Bertha Duerk (March 29, 1920 – July 21, 2018) became the first female admiral in the U.S. Navy in 1972. She was also the director of the U.S. Navy Nurse Corps from 1970 to 1975. She is a 1974 recipient of a Distinguished Alumni Award of Case Western Reserve University's Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing.\n\nDuerk was born in Defiance, Ohio, on March 29, 1920 to Albert and Emma Duerk. She had nursing training at Toledo (Ohio) Hospital School of Nursing, from which she received her diploma in 1941.\n\nOn January 23, 1943, she was appointed as an ensign in the Nurse Corps of the U.S. Naval Reserve. After receiving her commission in 1943, she was assigned in March of that year as a Ward Nurse at Naval Medical Center Portsmouth, Portsmouth, Virginia. In January 1944, she transferred, in a similar capacity, to the Naval Hospital, Bethesda, Maryland and in May 1945 joined the That vessel, anchored off Eniwetok, received the sick and wounded brought back from Third Fleet operations against Japan and later joined the Third Fleet for its last strikes against the enemy. After the cessation of hostilities, that hospital ship remained in Japanese waters, off Yokosuka, to assist in the processing of liberated Allied prisoners of war. The \"Benevolence\" returned to the United States with wounded servicemen in late 1945. Assigned in January 1946 to the Naval Hospital, Great Lakes, Illinois, Durek continued duty there until June of that year, when she was released from active naval service.\n\nShe attended the Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing at Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, from which she received the degree of Bachelor of Science in Ward Management and Teaching, Medical and Surgical Nursing, in 1948. Employed as Supervisor and Instructor, Medical Nursing, at Highland Park (Michigan) General Hospital, she remained there until 1951. While there, she joined a ready naval reserve unit in Detroit, Michigan, in 1948.\n\nOrdered to return to active naval service, she reported in June 1951, as a ward nurse at the Naval Hospital, Portsmouth, Virginia. Transferred in September 1951 to the Naval Hospital Corps School, Portsmouth, she was a Nursing Instructor there until October 1956, when she became Interservice Education Coordinatorat the Naval Horpital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. From June 1958 to May 1961 she served as Nurse Programs Officer at the Naval Recruiting Station, Chicago, Illinois, after which she had duty as Charge Nurse at the U. S. Naval Station Hospital, Subic Bay, Republic of the Philippines. In April 1962 she was assigned as Assistant Chief Nurse at the U.S. Naval Hospital, Yokosuka, Japan.\n\nDuring the period May 1963 to June 1965 she was the Senior Nurse Corps Officer at the Naval Station Dispensary, Long Beach, California. Following an assignment as Chief of the Nursing Branch at the Naval Hospital Corps School, San Diego, California, she reported in May 1966 as Assistant for Nurse Recruitment in the Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense (Health and Medical), Washington, D. C. She remained there until May 1967, then had duty until February 1968 as Assistant Head of Medical Placement Liaison (Nurse Corps), Bureau of Naval Personnel, Navy Department. She next returned to the Naval Hospital, Great Lakes, where she became Director of the Navy Nurse Corps, Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, Navy Department.\n\nAdvancing progressively in rank, she attained that of captain on July 1, 1967. She became the first female admiral in the Navy in 1972. \n\nDuerk retired in 1975. She died in Central Florida on July 21, 2018 at the age of 98.\n\nDuerk received the following honorary degrees:\n\nIn 2013 the University of Central Florida College of Nursing unveiled a bronze statue of Duerk, and it was put on display there. That university also offers the Rear Admiral Alene Duerk VNA Endowed Nursing Scholarship.\n\nHaving heard of her promotion to Rear Admiral on the radio in her car, a toll booth operator was the first person Duerk spoke to about it. But by the time she had gotten home, family was already calling and the press was waiting for her. From that time on, she felt that she was not only an admiral, she was a spokeswoman for all the women in the Navy. In that role, she frequently made appearances and statements in support of her Navy women, fighting for increases in pay, better conditions and recruiting nurses. \n\nAfter retirement, she joined the board of the Visiting Nurse Association in the early 1990s, which later became the Visiting Nurse Foundation in 1997, serving on the board for nearly 25 years. The board established the Admiral Alene Duerk Endowed Scholarship Fund at University of Central Florida in her honor.\n\nAlthough she was very close to her family, Duerk never married or had children of her own.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46176576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46176576", "title": "Anatoly Derevyanko", "text": "Anatoly Derevyanko\n\nAnatoly Derevyanko (; 9 January 1943, Kozmodemyanovka village, Amur Oblast) — is a Soviet/Russian historian, archaeologist, scientist in the field of Siberian and Far East`s Paleolith; public man; Ph. D (1971).\n\nAnatoly was born in the workman`s family. In 1963 he graduated from Blagoveschensk State Pedagogical University (BSPU). Derevyanko is one of the youngest Doctors of Historical Sciences in USSR. He got a degree in 1971, being 28 years old, for his doctoral thesis «Amur River Region in Antiquity (B. C.)».\n\nAnatoly Derevyanko is the prize-winner of several awards, such as State Prize of the Russian Federation (2001, 2012), The Demidov Prize (2004), The Lomonosov Gold Medal (2015).\n\nDerevyanko has developed the new spatiotemporal version of initial ways of Asia`s settlement, created a periodization, chronology and dynamics of Paleolith in the region. He is the head of programme, which is dedicated to the compound research of paleolithic spelaean monuments in South Siberia and Central Asia.\n\nAnatoly Derevyanko was the chancellor of Novosibirsk State University for two years (1980-1982).\n"}
{"id": "18533301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18533301", "title": "Brian Brivati", "text": "Brian Brivati\n\nBrian Brivati is a British historian. He was a professor of contemporary history at Kingston University and worked as a director of the John Smith memorial trust from 2008-2012.\n\nBrivati is a specialist in designing and delivering professional development, leadership and bespoke training programmes for government, NGOS, the private sector and overseas clients. He also works as a special adviser to politicians, government departments and civil society organisations in Central and Eastern Europe, Iraq and other Middle East countries.\n\nBrivati's academic career evolved from public policy, political history and biography into the teaching of Human Rights. His research interests are focussed on the interface between human rights and cyber security, the evolving nature of conflict, and the place of genocide and crimes against humanity in contemporary politics. Before joining PGI, he was Professor of Human Rights and Life Writing at Kingston University and is still a visiting Lecturer there.\n\nHe is Academic Director of the PGI Cyber Academy and an Adviser to Cleave and Co, and Co-chair of the Kurdish Genocide UK advisory council. He also sits on the editorial boards of Total Politics and the IPPR Journal. Brivati is a frequent contributor to print and broadcast media and a keynote and guest lecturer on a range of topics in the UK and abroad.\n\nBrivati is also currently director of The Stabilisation and Recovery Network, the objects of which are to carry out activities that contribute to the stabilisation and recovery efforts of post conflict states by delivering innovative projects through a network of likeminded individuals. The network develops projects that build good governance and the rule of law, combat corruption, aid the recovery of victims of sexual violence and counter the extremism that fuels conflict. The Network also works on related fields that contribute to building peaceful societies and consolidating representative governments while defending, promoting and extending human rights and enhancing gender equality and recovery for the survivors of conflict. They work through training and capacity building centred on individuals who are working in the field and who will join the network because of their direct experience. They work online in areas such as cyber security, combating online radicalisation and remote delivery of projects when and where this is appropriate. TSRN works in any geography in which the skills and the knowledge of their network can make a difference.\n"}
{"id": "1251533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251533", "title": "Centers of power", "text": "Centers of power\n\nCenters of power are localized regions of the world where political, economic and cultural influence are dominant for a time, hence defining a particular era in a particular sphere of influence. \n\n"}
{"id": "12745891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12745891", "title": "Charter of Amiens", "text": "Charter of Amiens\n\nThe Charter of Amiens () was adopted at the 9th Congress of the \"Confédération générale du travail\" (CGT) French trade-union, which took place in Amiens in October 1906. Its main proposal was the separation between the union movement and the political parties. The CGT was then dominated by anarcho-syndicalists who preferred the constitution of an alternate system through the elaboration of workers' union rather than moderate reforms through the electoral path. The motion for the Charter was drafted by Victor Griffuelhes, general secretary of the CGT, and Émile Pouget. The Charter was adopted by 830 participants, 8 having voted \"no\" and 1 abstained, and marked the victory of the current of revolutionary syndicalism in the CGT of the time.\n\nThe Charter of Amiens assigned two aims to the workers' movement: the \"defense of immediate and daily demands\" and the \"struggle for a global transformation of society in complete independence from political parties and from the state.\" By this Charter, the CGT explicitly recognized class struggle. Immediate goals included reduction of worktime (the 8 hours day) and increase of wages. But the longer term goal was nothingless than \"expropriation of the capitalists\" through the means of a general strike. It considered the trade-union to be the future group of production and of social repartition and the basis for a social reorganization — a main view of the syndicalism movement.\n\nConsidering that all employees were submitted to the same exploitation and alienation, both material and spiritual, it stated that it was a duty for all of them to belong to a trade-union. This, in turn, was followed by the proclamation of the complete freedom for its members to choose the form of political struggle (and, therefore, any party membership) which it deemed the fitter. In exchange, it requested for the union member not to introduce in the union opinions which it professed outside.\n\nThe Charter of Amiens has become a cornerstone of the unions' tradition in France and the guarantee of their autonomy from political parties, although after World War II and the creation of the social-democrat \"Force Ouvrière\" (FO) trade-union, close to the French Section of the Workers' International (SFIO) and then to the French Socialist Party (PS), the CGT has maintained unofficial links with the French Communist Party (PCF). The CGT, FO, the \"Union nationale des syndicats autonomes\" (UNSA), the \"Union syndicale Solidaires\", the \"Confédération nationale du travail\" (CNT), the FGAAC and the \"Fédération syndicale unitaire\" (FSU) today all claim as theirs the Charter of Amiens. The CNT-AIT, founded in 1922, is the only one to reject the Charter, alleging that by proclaiming an autonomy between trade-unions and political parties it organizes the submission of the workers' union to parties. Furthermore, the CNT-AIT — French section of the International Workers Association (IWA) — which qualifies itself as an anarchist communist organization, also criticizes the formulation according to which the trade-union will become the future cell of social organization: in its views, in the event of an overhaul of Capitalism, the trade-unions will be called to disappear lest they become organizations of control.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32235481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32235481", "title": "Denis Zubrytsky", "text": "Denis Zubrytsky\n\nDenis Ivanovych Zubrytsky ( (1777, Zhovka district, Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria (now Kamianka-Buzka Raion, Ukraine) – January 16, 1862, Lemberg), was the first Ukrainian historian in Galicia and a major early figure in the Galician Russophile movement.\n\nDenis Zubrytsky was born in 1777 into a family of Ukrainian nobles. After graduating from Lviv's gymnazium in 1795 he worked as a civil servant. In his youth he had been pro-Polish, and had even supported Napoleon's invasion of Austria-Hungary; in 1809 he served as a secretary to the pro-French Polish forces who occupied the city. Later in his life Zubrytsky became very hostile to Polish interests and an ardent supporter of Russophilism. Between 1829 and 1847 he held various positions within the Stauropegion Institute, an important cultural and historical institution in western Ukraine that served as a bastion of Russophilism. In 1842 he became a corresponding member of the St. Petersburg Archeological Commission and in 1855 he became a corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences. In 1843 he was commissioned to organize the Lviv municipal archive.\n\nZubrytsky was highly influenced by his friend, Mikhail Pogodin, and his idea that Ukrainians and Russian constituted one nation. During his time Austria and Russia were allies and Zubrytsky idealized Russian autocracy while also being loyal to Austria-Hungary. He opposed the Polish nobility and the Polish domination of Galicia while also objecting to the abolition of serfdom. Through Zubrytsky's efforts many Galicians, such as Yakiv Holovatsky, one of the members of the Ruthenian Triad, were converted to Russophilism.\n\nDenis Zubrytsky published numerous historical works. His most significant work, written in the Russian language, was the \"History of the Principality of Galicia-Volhynia\", written in 1852 and 1855. He also published articles on Galician folk songs, histories of the Ruthenian people and church figures in medieval times, and other historical articles. According to a letter Zubtrytsky wrote to Mikhail Pogodin, the purpose of his historical research was to acquaint Galicians (western Ukrainians) with Russian history and with the Russian language.\n"}
{"id": "29044626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29044626", "title": "Earl Oliver", "text": "Earl Oliver\n\nEarl Oliver (born June 23, 1948) is an American writer, musician, variety, street entertainer, and graphic artist. An accomplished blues and jazz guitarist and singer in Northern California and the San Francisco Bay Area, popularly known as the Walkin' Blues Man, he hosted a popular cable-access television program, \"Earl Oliver & Friends: Live from LaVal's\", later called \"Live on Location\", that aired in 16 stations throughout the region from 1992 to 1995. He has also been the lead vocalist for several California-based bands, most recently, the Groovinators.\n\nFrom May, 2005 until August, 2013, Oliver was a regular performer on the Skunk Train, a heritage railway which runs daily from Fort Bragg and Willits, California, and at events such as the Palo Alto Art Walk and Project Read for the San Francisco Public Library. In 2001, he was called \"one of San Francisco's undiscovered treasures\" by \"San Francisco Arts Magazine\".\n\nThe nephew of professional wrestler Rip \"The Crippler\" Oliver, Oliver is a longtime wrestling columnist and historian. He is perhaps best known in the internet wrestling community as the founder of Solie's Vintage Wrestling, a historical professional wrestling website dedicated to the memory of announcer Gordon Solie, which is the oldest continually active pro wrestling website on the internet.\n\nEarl Oliver was born in Indianapolis, Indiana, but later moved with his family to Southern California. At age 14, Oliver began playing as a professional musician and in 1969 moved to the San Francisco Bay Area, where he performed at local jazz and rock music night clubs such as \"The Melting Pot\", \"La Bohème\", \"The Vintner\", \"Family Farmacy\", and the \"Seventh Seal Coffee-House\" by the early-1970s. While studying music, he was given singing lessons from one-time Metropolitan Opera diva Margo Weiss. He also became involved in stage acting within a few years with memorable performances in \"Bye Bye Birdie\", \"George M!\" and \"Don't Drink the Water\" at the Glendale Center, as well performing as a magician at \"The Magic Castle\". In 1977, he portrayed the \"evil sorcerer\" in \"Aladdin\" at Pamela and Walter Gilmore's Golden Mall Playhouse. Around this time, he began producing a variety show, \"The Showcase\", which included musicians, singers, comics, clowns, fire eaters, poetry readers and other entertainers. It was very successful on the night club circuit, being regularly featured at \"the Horn\" in Santa Monica, and received praise from the \"LA Weekly\" in July 1979.\n\nIn the 1980s, Oliver returned to the music scene finding limited success with the bands \"JUMP CITY\" and \"The Sphere\". He also entered the recording business producing radio advertisements for local camera stores and shoe emporiums, doing voice overs and writing advertising jingles. Also during this time, he began developing the stage persona of \"a blues shouting, guitar playing\" singer called the \"Walkin' Blues Man\". The character would become a familiar sight at countless parades, music and art festivals, county fairs, farmers markets and other outdoor events throughout the West Coast of the United States and in Canada for the next 20 years.\n\nBy the end of the decade, Oliver had also developed a unique variety act by incorporating magic into his musical performances, such as draping a scarf over his guitar at the end of his set and making it disappear, which was favorably reviewed by the \"San Fernando Valley Daily News\" in October 1989. In 1992, Oliver began producing a monthly cable-access television program, \"Earl Oliver & Friends: Live from LaVal's\", later called \"Live on Location\", which featured variety acts at \"La Val's Subterranean\" basement club. The show became very popular in San Francisco and was eventually broadcast in 16 stations throughout the region until 1995.\n\nOliver held a number of entertainment and music-related occupations throughout his life including as a disk jockey, carnival barker, broadcast journalist, answering service operator, voice artist, and ring announcer. However, he was primarily employed as a graphic production artist and later, with rise of the internet during the 1990s, as a web designer and corporate trainer.\n\nAs a young man, he developed an interest in professional wrestling, being the nephew of Rip \"The Crippler\" Oliver, and was especially a fan of famed \"Championship Wrestling from Florida\" play-by-play announcer Gordon Solie. In 1995, Oliver started a website in his honor, Solie's Vintage Wrestling, dedicated to the history of professional wrestling. It was the first of its kind at the time of its opening and remains the oldest professional wrestling website still active. He was also the editor of the weekly \"Solie's Wrestling Newsletter\" from 1996 to 2003.\n\nIn addition to Solie's Vintage Wrestling, Oliver has also occasionally contributed to WrestlingClassics.com and was later interviewed in The Wrestling Channel Radio Network's first original production \"Jeremy Hartley's Up Close and Personal\". In 1999, he publicly criticized SLAM! Wrestling columnist Eric Benner for a controversial article on the Hart family following the ring death of Owen Hart. He was occasionally in contact with Solie, who later endorsed the website, shortly before his death in 2000 and was quoted by both wrestling websites and the mainstream media upon the publishing of Solie's biography \"Gordon Solie: Something Left Behind\" five years later.\n\nIn 2001, he was called \"one of San Francisco's undiscovered treasures\" by \"San Francisco Arts Magazine\". In October 2003 he moved to Fort Bragg, California where Oliver and his wife Lonna settled in a 90-year-old farmhouse. After being laid off from IKON Office Solutions' Print on Demand Division in 2005, Oliver left the corporate world to become a full-time musician and writer. In his familiar \"Walkin' Blues Man\" act, he has appeared at such civic events such as the Palo Alto Art Walk and Project Read for the San Francisco Public Library. He has been a regular performer on the Skunk Train, an heritage railway running between Fort Bragg and Willits, California, and was on hand with Greg Schindel, The Trainsinger and The Black Bart Gunfighters to celebrate its 120th anniversary.\n\nOliver also formed a partnership with Mendocino Coast music legend, Butch Kwan, releasing the \"Skunk Train Blues\" album, and performed together for over two years appearing at the 2004 and 2006 Caspar World Folk Festival, \"Art in the Gardens\" at the North Coast Botanical Gardens, and headlined the 12th annual \"Local Licks Live\" concert sponsored by KOZT 95.3 FM. Beginning in 2005, they were regular performers at Fort Bragg's annual \"World's Largest Salmon BarBQ\". In recent years, he has revisited several of these events as the lead vocalist for The Groovinators.\n\nOn May 8, 2010, and again on May 26, 2012, Oliver sang with the Symphony of the Redwoods during their annual POPS Benefit Concerts. At the 2012 concert, Earl was asked to perform with the orchestra for the finale of the show, a \"Tribute to Old Blues Eyes\" medley of Frank Sinatra hits.\n\nOliver launched Solie's Vintage Wrestling, a historical professional wrestling website, in 1995, named in honor of announcer Gordon Solie, and one of the earliest known pro wrestling website on the internet. It had a number of innovative features, most notably, the most extensive collection of wrestling title histories on the internet. It was also home to \"Solie's Wrestling Newsletter\", which Oliver edited, and all 753 editions were put online following the end of its run in November 2003. Solie.org is considered a valued reference among wrestling fans and the internet wrestling community. As of 2010, it is the oldest continually active pro wrestling website on the internet.\n\n\nOliver created Uncle Earl's Classic TV Channel in early 2010 in conjunction with his work at Mendocino Coast Television (MCTV), the cable access (PEG) TV station in Fort Bragg, CA. The Uncle Earl site is a free repository of streaming classic television programs and movies, organized in an easily navigated library format.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38431131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38431131", "title": "George Grantham (economic historian)", "text": "George Grantham (economic historian)\n\nGeorge Grantham (also George W. Grantham) (born May 11, 1941) is an American economic historian and Emeritus Professor at McGill University. His contribution to economics has focused mainly on the agricultural development, particularly of the French rural economy in the 18th and 19th centuries. For many years before his retirement in 2009, he was a prominent teacher of economics at McGill University and in 2000 he was awarded the Cliometric Society's annual prize – the Clio Can for exceptional support to the field of cliometrics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23458678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23458678", "title": "Global Heritage Network", "text": "Global Heritage Network\n\nGlobal Heritage Network (GHN), established by Global Heritage Fund (GHF), was created in response to the damage and destruction facing cultural heritage sites throughout the developing world. GHN is an online multimedia platform that uses Google Earth and social networking for threat monitoring and collaborative preservation of those sites. GHN features an online community for networking and discussion of possible solutions, while critical support and software for the platform have been donated by Google, DigitalGlobe, Autodesk, Ashtech, Exelis Visual Information Solutions and ESRI.\n\nGHN consists of an extensive database (GHN Sites) of approximately 650 globally significant sites in the developing world color-coded by threat level: Destroyed (Black), Rescue Needed (Red), At Risk (Yellow), Stable (Green). Each site contains a profile with background information, photos, documentation, maps, videos and satellite imagery. GHN's partnership with DigitalGlobe ensures that these sites are updated frequently with recent satellite imagery. \n\nGHN invites global conservation experts and local stakeholders to become site coordinators, which entails guiding a GHN site through a program of investigation, planning, scientific conservation, community development, and partnerships.\n\nGHN has also incorporated a customized social network (GHN Community) that provides site-based and thematic discussion groups, composed of national governments, local communities, professional archaeologists, conservators and other concerned parties.\n\nLastly, the GHN library houses a collection of heritage preservation-related electronic documents including bibliographies, management plans, guidelines, case studies held in the GHN Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4913050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4913050", "title": "Henry Friedlander", "text": "Henry Friedlander\n\nHenry Egon Friedlander (24 September 1930 – 17 October 2012) was a German-American Jewish historian of the Holocaust noted for his arguments in favor of broadening the scope of casualties of the Holocaust.\n\nBorn in Berlin, Germany, to a Jewish family, Friedlander moved to the United States in 1947 as a survivor of Auschwitz, obtaining his BA in history at Temple University in 1953 and his MA and PhD at the University of Pennsylvania in 1954 and 1968.\n\nFrom 1975 until his retirement in 2001, Friedlander served as a professor in the department of Judaic studies at Brooklyn College of the City University of New York.\n\nSon of physician Bernhard Fritz Friedländer and Ruth Friedländer, née Löwenthal, Henry Friedlander was married to fellow historian Sybil Milton (1941–2000), who has a German Studies Association memorial prize named after her.\n\nFriedlander argued that three groups should be considered victims of the Holocaust, namely Jews, Romani, and the mentally and physically disabled, noting that the latter were Nazism's first victims. His opinions concerning the inclusion of both the disabled and Romani as victims of the Holocaust often gave rise to intense debates with those, such as the Israeli historian Yehuda Bauer, who argued that only Jews should be considered victims of the Holocaust.\n\nLike Friedlander, Sybil Milton supported a more expansive, inclusive definition of the Holocaust, arguing against the \"exclusivity of emphasis on Judeocide in most Holocaust literature [that] has generally excluded Gypsies (as well as blacks and the handicapped) from equal consideration\", and exchanging views on the topic with Yehuda Bauer.\n\nAccording to Friedlander, the origins of the Holocaust can be traced to the coming together of two lines of Nazi policies: the antisemitic policies of the Nazi regime, and its \"racial cleansing\" policies that led to the Action T4 program. Arguing that the ultimate origins of the Holocaust came from the T4 program, he pointed to the fact that both the poison gas and the crematoria were originally deployed in the T4 program in 1939. It was only later, in 1941, that the experts from the T4 program were imported by the SS to help design, and later run, the death camps for the Jews of Europe. Friedlander did not deny the importance of the Nazi's antisemitic ideology, but, in his view, the T4 program was the crucial seed that gave birth to the Holocaust.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10845901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10845901", "title": "Historic Places Act 1954", "text": "Historic Places Act 1954\n\nThe Historic Places Act 1954 was an Act of the New Zealand Parliament. It established the New Zealand Historic Places Trust for the purpose of preserving, marking and recording places of historic interest in New Zealand. The organisation has since been renamed to Heritage New Zealand.\n\nOne of the early structures that was covered by a heritage order was the Pencarrow Head Lighthouse at the entrance to Wellington Harbour, which was added to the register at its centenary in 1959.\n"}
{"id": "413454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413454", "title": "History of Uganda (1979–present)", "text": "History of Uganda (1979–present)\n\nThe history of Uganda since 11 April 1979 comprises the history of Uganda since the end of the dictatorship of Idi Amin. This period has seen the second rule of Milton Obote and the presidency of Yoweri Museveni since 1986, in which Ugandan politics have been dominated by the National Resistance Movement.\n\nA month before the liberation of Kampala, during the Uganda-Tanzania War, representatives of twenty-two Ugandan civilian and military groups were hastily called together at Moshi, Tanzania, to try to agree on an interim civilian government once Amin was removed. Called the Unity Conference in the hope that unity might prevail, it managed to establish the Uganda National Liberation Front (UNLF) as political representative of the UNLA. Yusuf Lule, former principal of Makerere University, became head of the UNLF executive committee. \n\nAs an academic rather than a politician, Lule was not regarded as a threat to any of the contending factions. Shortly after Amin's departure, Lule and the UNLF moved to Kampala, where they established an interim government. Lule became president, advised by a temporary parliament, the National Consultative Council (NCC). The NCC, in turn, was composed of representatives from the Unity Conference.\n\nConflict surfaced immediately between Lule and some of the more radical of the council members who saw him as too conservative, too autocratic, and too willing as a Muganda to listen to advice from other Baganda. After only three months, with the apparent approval of Julius Nyerere, whose troops still controlled Kampala, Lule was forcibly removed from office and exiled. He was replaced by Godfrey Binaisa, a Muganda like Lule, but one who had previously served as a high-ranking member of Milton Obote's UPC. \n\nIt was not an auspicious start to the rebuilding of a new Uganda, which required political and economic stability. Indeed, the quarrels within the NCC, which Binaisa enlarged to 127 members, revealed that many rival and would-be politicians who had returned from exile were resuming their self-interested operating styles. Ugandans who endured the deprivations of the Amin era became even more disillusioned with their leaders. Binaisa managed to stay in office longer than Lule, but his inability to gain control over a burgeoning new military presence proved to be his downfall.\n\nThe armed forces numbered fewer than 1,000 troops who had fought alongside the Tanzania People's Defence Force (TPDF) to expel Amin. The army had shrunk to the size of the original King's African Rifles at independence in 1962. But in 1979, in an attempt to consolidate support for the future, leaders such as Yoweri Kaguta Museveni and Major General (later Chief of Staff) David Oyite Ojok began to enrol thousands of recruits grew to 8,000; Ojok's original 600 became 24,000. When Binaisa sought to curb the use of these militias, which were harassing and detaining political opponents, he was overthrown in a military coup on 10 May 1980. \n\nThe coup was engineered by Ojok, Museveni, and others acting under the general direction of Paulo Muwanga, Obote's right-hand man and chair of the Military Commission. The TPDF was still providing necessary security while Uganda's police force, which had been all but destroyed by Amin, was rebuilt, but Nyerere refused to help Binaisa retain power. Many Ugandans claimed that although Nyerere did not impose his own choice on Uganda, he indirectly facilitated the return to power of his old friend and ally, Milton Obote. In any case, the Military Commission headed by Muwanga effectively governed Uganda during the six months leading up to the national elections of December 1980.\n\nFurther evidence of the militarization of Ugandan politics was provided by the proposed expenditures of the newly empowered Military Commission. Security and defense were to be allotted more than 30 percent of the national revenues. For a country desperately seeking funds for economic recovery from the excesses of the previous military regime, this allocation seemed unreasonable to civilian leaders.\n\nShortly after Muwanga's 1980 coup, Obote made a triumphant return from Tanzania. In the months before the December elections, he began to rally his former UPC supporters. Ominously, in view of recent Ugandan history, he often appeared on the platform with General Oyite-Ojok, a fellow Lango. Obote also began to speak of the need to return to a UPC one-party state.\n\nThe national election on 10 December 1980 was a crucial turning point for Uganda. It was, after all, the first election in eighteen years. Several parties contested, the most important of which were Obote's UPC and the DP led by Paul Kawanga Ssemogerere. Most of Uganda's Roman Catholics were DP members, along with many others whose main concern was to prevent the return of another Obote regime. Because the Military Commission, as the acting government, was dominated by Obote supporters (notably chairman Paulo Muwanga), the DP and other contenders faced formidable obstacles. By election day, the UPC had achieved some exceptional advantages, summarized by Minority Rights Group Report Number 66 as follows: Seventeen UPC candidates were declared \"unopposed\" by the simple procedure of not allowing DP or other candidates to run against them. \n\nFourteen district commissioners, who were expected to supervise local polling, were replaced with UPC nominees. The chief justice of Uganda, to whom complaints of election irregularities would have to be made, was replaced with a UPC member. In a number of districts, non-UPC candidates were arrested, and one was murdered. Even before the election, the government press and Radio Uganda appeared to treat the UPC as the victor. Muwanga insisted that each party have a separate ballot box on election day, thus negating the right of secret ballot. There were a number of other moves to aid the UPC, including Muwanga's statement that the future parliament would also contain an unspecified number of unelected representatives of the army and other interest groups.\n\nPolling appeared to be heavy on election day, and by the end of the voting, the DP, on the basis of its own estimates, declared victory in 81 of 126 constituencies. The British Broadcasting Corporation and Voice of America broadcast the news of the DP triumph, and Kampala's streets were filled with DP celebrants. At this point, Muwanga seized control of the Electoral Commission, along with the power to count the ballots, and declared that anyone disputing his count would be subject to a heavy fine and five years in jail. Eighteen hours later, Muwanga announced a UPC victory, with 72 seats. Some DP candidates claimed the ballot boxes were simply switched to give their own vote tally to the UPC runner-up. \n\nNevertheless, a small contingent of neutral election watchers, the Commonwealth Observer Group, declared itself satisfied with the validity of the election. Some Ugandans criticized the Commonwealth Observer Group, suggesting that members of the group measured African elections by different standards than those used elsewhere or that they feared civil war if the results were questioned. Indeed, popular perception of a stolen election actually helped bring about the civil war the Commonwealth Observer Group may have feared.\n\nIn February 1981, shortly after the new Obote government took office, with Paulo Muwanga as vice president and minister of defense, a former Military Commission member, Yoweri Museveni, and his armed supporters declared themselves the National Resistance Army (NRA). Museveni vowed to overthrow Obote by means of a popular rebellion, and what became known as \"the war in the bush\" began. Several other underground groups also emerged to attempt to sabotage the new regime, but they were eventually crushed. Museveni, who had guerilla war experience with the Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (Frente de Libertaçâo de Moçambique—Frelimo), campaigned in rural areas hostile to Obote's government, especially central and western Buganda and the western regions of Ankole and Bunyoro.\n\nThe Obote government's four-year military effort to destroy its challengers resulted in vast areas of devastation and greater loss of life than during the eight years of Amin's rule. UNLA's many Acholi and Lango had been hastily enrolled with minimal training and little sense of discipline. Although they were survivors of Amin's genocidal purges of north-east Uganda, in the 1980s they were armed and in uniform, conducting similar actions against Bantu-speaking Ugandans in the south, with whom they appeared to feel no empathy or even pity. \n\nIn early 1983, to eliminate rural support for Museveni's guerrillas the area of Luwero District, north of Kampala, was targeted for a massive population removal affecting almost 750,000 people. These artificially created refugees were packed into several internment camps subject to military control, which in reality meant military abuse. Civilians outside the camps, in what came to be known as the \"Luwero Triangle,\" were presumed to be guerrillas or guerilla sympathizers and were treated accordingly. The farms of this highly productive agricultural area were looted—roofs, doors, and even door frames were stolen by UNLA troops. Civilian loss of life was extensive, as evidenced some years later by piles of human skulls in bush clearings and alongside rural roads.\n\nThe army also concentrated on the north-western corner of Uganda, in what was then West Nile District. Bordering Sudan, West Nile had provided the ethnic base for much of Idi Amin's earlier support and had enjoyed relative prosperity under his rule. Having borne the brunt of Amin's anti-Acholi massacres in previous years, Acholi soldiers avenged themselves on inhabitants of Amin's home region, whom they blamed for their losses. In one famous incident in June 1981, Ugandan Army soldiers attacked a Catholic mission where local refugees had sought sanctuary. When the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) reported a subsequent massacre, the government expelled it from Uganda.\n\nDespite these activities, Obote's government, unlike Amin's regime, was sensitive to its international image and realized the importance of securing foreign aid for the nation's economic recovery. Obote had sought and followed the advice of the International Monetary Fund, even though the austerity measures ran counter to his own ideology. He devalued the Uganda shilling by 100 percent, attempted to facilitate the export of cash crops, and postponed any plans he may once have entertained for re-establishing one-party rule. The continued sufferance of the DP, although much harried and abused by UPC stalwarts, became an important symbol to international donors. The government's inability to eliminate Museveni and win the civil war, however, sapped its economic strength, and the occupation of a large part of the country by an army hostile to the Ugandans living there furthered discontent with the regime. \n\nAbductions by the police, as well as the detentions and disappearances so characteristic of the Amin period, recurred. In place of torture at the infamous State Research Bureau at Nakasero, victims met the same fate at so-called \"Nile Mansions.\" Amnesty International, a human rights organization, issued a chilling report of routine torture of civilian detainees at military barracks scattered across southern Uganda. The overall death toll from 1981 to 1985 was estimated as high as 500,000. Obote, once seen by the donor community as the one man with the experience and will to restore Uganda's fortunes, now appeared to be a liability to recovery.\n\nIn this deteriorating military and economic situation, Obote subordinated other matters to a military victory over Museveni. North Korean military advisers were invited to take part against the NRA rebels in what was to be a final campaign that won neither British nor United States approval. But the army was warweary, and after the death of the highly capable General Oyite Ojok in a helicopter accident at the end of 1983, it began to split along ethnic lines. Acholi soldiers complained that they were given too much front-line action and too few rewards for their services. \n\nObote delayed appointing a successor to Oyite Ojok for as long as possible. In the end, he appointed a Lango to the post and attempted to counter the objection of Acholi officers by spying on them, reviving his old paramilitary counterweight, the mostly Langi Special Force Units, and thus repeating some of the actions that led to his overthrow by Amin. As if determined to replay the January 1971 events, Obote once again left the capital after giving orders for the arrest of a leading Acholi commander, Brigadier (later Lieutenant General) Bazilio Olara-Okello, who mobilized troops and entered Kampala on 27 July 1985. Obote, together with a large entourage, fled the country for Zambia. This time, unlike the last, Obote allegedly took much of the national treasury with him.\n\nThe military government of General Tito Okello ruled from July 1985 to January 1986 with no explicit policy except the natural goal of self-preservation—the motive for their defensive coup. To stiffen the flagging efforts of his army against the NRA, Okello invited former soldiers of Amin's army to re-enter Uganda from the Sudanese refugee camps and participate in the civil war on the government side. As mercenaries fresh to the scene, these units fought well, but they were equally interested in looting and did not discriminate between supporters and enemies of the government. The reintroduction of Amin's infamous cohorts was poor international public relations for the Okello government and helped create a new tolerance of Museveni and the NRM/A.\n\nOkello could hardly expect to govern the entire country with only war-weary and disillusioned Acholi troops to back him. From August to December 1985, the Okello government attempted to negotiate a peace deal with Museveni, the Nairobi Agreement. The resulting ceasefire broke down almost immediately. With Okello and the remnants of the UNLA army thoroughly discouraged, Museveni had only to wait for the regime to disintegrate. \n\nIn January 1986, welcomed enthusiastically by the local civilian population, Museveni moved against Kampala. Okello and his soldiers fled northward to their ethnic base in Acholiland. Yoweri Museveni formally claimed the presidency on 29 January 1986. Immense problems of reconstruction awaited the new regime.\n\nA referendum was held in March 2000 on whether Uganda should retain the Movement system or adopt multi-party politics. Although 70% of voters endorsed retention of the Movement system, the referendum was widely criticized for low voter turnout and unfair restrictions on Movement opponents. Museveni was reelected to a second five-year term in March 2001. Parliamentary elections were held in June 2001, and more than 50% of contested seats were won by newcomers. Movement supporters nevertheless remained in firm control of the legislative branch. Observers believed that the 2001 presidential and parliamentary elections generally reflected the will of the electorate; however, both were marred by serious irregularities, particularly in the period leading up to the elections, such as restrictions on political party activities, incidents of violence, voter intimidation, and fraud. \n\nIn 2001 the Constitutional Review Commission (CRC) began soliciting opinions and holding public hearings on amending the 1995 Constitution. The CRC was set up to examine the constitutional provisions relating to sovereignty, political systems, democracy and good governance. Its report, scheduled for release by October 2003, has not yet been delivered to Cabinet or made public. The Cabinet, however, presented a list of its suggestions for constitutional change to the CRC in September. These changes included the introduction of a full multiparty system, an increase in executive authority vis-à-vis the other branches, and the lifting of presidential term limits. The elimination of term limits would clear the way for Museveni to run again in 2006, and there are increasing signs that he wishes to do so. However, this proposal has also produced significant controversy and it is not yet clear when or how the constitution will be changed. \n\nThe bizarre and cult-like Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) continues to harass government forces and murder and kidnap civilians in the north and east. Although the LRA does not threaten the stability of the government, LRA violence has displaced 1.2 million people and created a humanitarian crisis. At least 20,000 children have also been abducted over the years. The Uganda Peoples Defense Force (UPDF) launched \"Operation Iron Fist\" against LRA rebels in northern Uganda in 2002 and conducted operations against LRA sanctuaries in southern Sudan with the permission of the Sudanese Government. Uganda and Sudan have resumed diplomatic relations and exchanged Ambassadors; however, Uganda continues to accuse Sudan of supporting the LRA. Sudan denies the allegations.\n\nIn 1998, Uganda deployed a sizable military force to eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), ostensibly to prevent attacks from Ugandan rebel groups operating there. There were widespread allegations that Ugandan military and civilian officials were involved in the illegal exploitation of DRC natural resources. After much international pressure, Uganda withdrew its troops from DRC in June 2003.\n\nOn 14 November 2004 it was reported that the President had declared a week-long truce with the rebels that was to begin the following day.\n\nIn August 2005, Parliament voted to change the constitution to lift presidential term limits, allowing Museveni to run for a third term. In a referendum in July 2005, 92.5% supported restoring multiparty politics, thereby scrapping the no-party or \"movement system\". \n\nIn October 2005 Kizza Besigye, Museveni's main political rival, returned from exile. The same month, another of Museveni's rivals, Milton Obote, died in South Africa, and was given a state funeral in Kampala.\n\nThe February 2006 elections, the first multiparty elections in 25 years, were held with Besigye's Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) as the main challenger to Museveni's National Resistance Movement (NRM). NRM won most seats in the National Assembly, and Museveni won the presidency.\n\nOn 20 August 2007, Uganda declared that it is seeking legal advice on setting a war crimes court.\n\nOn 12 October 2011, US President Obama authorized the deployment to Uganda of approximately 100 combat-equipped US forces to help regional forces \"remove from the battlefield\" – meaning capture or kill – Lord’s Resistance Army leader Joseph Kony and senior leaders of the LRA.\n\n"}
{"id": "52202094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52202094", "title": "History of knotting", "text": "History of knotting\n\nKnots and knotting have been used and studied throughout history. For example, Chinese knotting is a decorative handicraft art that began as a form of Chinese folk art in the Tang and Song Dynasty (960-1279 AD) in China, later popularized in the Ming. Knot theory is the recent mathematical study of unknots.\n\nKnots of ancient origin include the bottle sling, bowline, cat's paw, clove hitch, cow hitch, double fisherman's knot, eskimo bowline, figure-eight knot, fisherman's knot, half hitch, kalmyk loop, one-sided overhand bend, overhand knot, overhand loop, reef knot, running bowline, single hitch, thief knot, Turk's head knot, and two half-hitches.\n\nThe eleven main knots of Chinese knotting are the four-flower knot, six-flower knot, Chinese button knot, double connection knot, double coin knot, agemaki, cross knot, square knot, Plafond knot, Pan Chang knot, and the good luck knot.\n\nKnots of more recent origin include the friendship knot of Chinese knotting. The sheepshank knot originates from 1627 while the Western Union splice originates from the beginning of telegraphy.\n\nThe reef knot is of ancient origin.\n"}
{"id": "51363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51363", "title": "History of the Caribbean", "text": "History of the Caribbean\n\nThe history of the Caribbean reveals the significant role the region played in the colonial struggles of the European powers since the 15th century. In 1492, Christopher Columbus landed in the Caribbean and claimed the region for Spain. The First Spanish settlements were established in the Caribbean starting in 1493. Although the Spanish conquests of the Aztec empire and the Inca empire in the early sixteenth century made Mexico and Peru more desirable places for Spanish exploration and settlement, the Caribbean remained strategically important.\n\nBeginning in the 1620s and 1630s, non-Hispanic privateers, traders, and settlers established permanent colonies and trading posts on islands neglected by Spain. Such colonies spread throughout the Caribbean, from the Bahamas in the North West to Tobago in the South East. In addition, beginning in the 1620s, French and English buccaneers settled in places like the island of Tortuga, the northern and western coasts of Hispaniola, and later in Jamaica.\n\nAfter the Spanish American wars of independence in the early 19th century, only the islands of Cuba and Puerto Rico remained part of the Spanish Empire in the New World. In the 20th century the Caribbean was again important during World War II, in the decolonization wave after the war, and in the tension between Communist Cuba and the United States. Genocide, slavery, immigration, and rivalry between world powers have given Caribbean history an impact disproportionate to its size.\n\nThe oldest evidence of human settlement in the Caribbean has been found at Ortoiroid sites on Trinidad dating to the mid-6th . They had reached Hispaniola and Cuba by the mid-5th , where their society is also known as the Casirimoid. The hunter-gatherer Guanahatabey present in western Cuba at the time of Columbus's arrival may have represented a continuation of their language or more recent arrivals from eastern Florida or the Yucatan.\n\nThe islands were then repopulated by successive waves of invaders travelling south to north from initial bases in the Orinoco River valley. Between 400 and , the Saladoid spread north from Trinidad, introducing agriculture and ceramic pottery. Sometime after , the Barrancoid followed and replaced them on Trinidad. This society's settlements in the Orinoco collapsed around 650 and another group, the Arauquinoid (the later \"Taíno\" or \"Arawaks\"), expanded into the area and northward along the island chain. Around 1200 or 1300, a twentieth group, the Mayoid (the later \"Caribs\"), entered Trinidad. They remained dominant until the Spanish conquest.\n\nAt the time of the European arrival, three major Amerindian indigenous peoples lived on the islands: the Taíno in the Greater Antilles, The Bahamas and the Leeward Islands; the Island Caribs and Galibi in the Windward Islands; and the Ciboney in western Cuba. The Taínos are subdivided into Classic Taínos, who occupied Hispaniola and Puerto Rico, Western Taínos, who occupied Cuba, Jamaica, and the arabian archipelago, and the Eastern Taínos, who occupied the Leeward Islands. Trinidad was inhabited by both Carib speaking and Arawak-speaking groups.\n\nNew scientific DNA studies have changed some of the traditional beliefs about pre-Columbian indigenous history. Juan Martinez Cruzado, a geneticist from the University of Puerto Rico at Mayagüez designed an island-wide DNA survey of Puerto Rico's people. According to conventional historical belief, Puerto Ricans have mainly Spanish ethnic origins, with some African ancestry, and distant and less significant indigenous ancestry. Cruzado's research revealed surprising results in 2003. It found that, in fact, 61% of all Puerto Ricans have Amerindian mitochondrial DNA, 27% have African and 12% Caucasian.\n\nSoon after the voyages of Christopher Columbus to the Americas, both Portuguese and Spanish ships began claiming territories in Central and South America. These colonies brought in gold, and other European powers, most specifically England, the Netherlands, and France, hoped to establish profitable colonies of their own. Imperial rivalries made the Caribbean a contested area during European wars for centuries. In the Spanish American wars of independence in the early nineteenth century, most of Spanish America broke away from the Spanish Empire, but Cuba and Puerto Rico remained under the Spanish crown until the Spanish–American War of 1898.\n\nDuring the first voyage of the explorer Christopher Columbus contact was made with the Lucayans in the Bahamas and the Taíno in Cuba and the northern coast of Hispaniola, and a few of the native people were taken back to Spain. Small amounts of gold were found in their personal ornaments and other objects such as masks and belts. The Spanish, who came seeking wealth, enslaved the native population and rapidly drove them to near-extinction. To supplement the Amerindian labor, the Spanish imported African slaves. (See also Slavery in the Spanish New World colonies.) Although Spain claimed the entire Caribbean, they settled only the larger islands of Hispaniola (1493), Puerto Rico (1508), Jamaica (1509), Cuba (1511), and Trinidad (1530). The Spanish made an exception in the case of the small 'pearl islands' of Cubagua and Margarita off the Venezuelan coast because of their valuable pearl beds, which were worked extensively between 1508 and 1530.\n\nThe other European powers established a presence in the Caribbean after the Spanish Empire declined, partly due to the reduced native population of the area from European diseases. The Dutch, the French, and the British followed one another to the region and established a long-term presence. They brought with them millions of slaves imported from Africa to support the tropical plantation system that spread through the Caribbean islands.\n\nDuring the first three-quarters of the sixteenth century, matters of balance of power and dynastic succession weighed heavily on the course of European diplomacy and war. Europe’s largest and most powerful kingdoms, France and Spain, were the continent’s staunchest rivals. Tensions increased after 1516, when the kingdoms of Castile, León, and Aragon were formally unified under Charles I of Spain, who three years later expanded his domains after his election as Holy Roman Emperor and began to surround France. In 1521, France went to war with the Holy Roman Empire. Spanish troops routed French armies in France, the Italian Peninsula, and elsewhere, forcing the French Crown to surrender in 1526 and again in 1529. The Italian Wars, as the French-Spanish wars came to be known, reignited in 1536 and again in 1542. Intermittent warring between the Valois monarchy and the Habsburg Empire continued until 1559.\n\nFrench corsair attacks began in the early 1520s, as soon as France declared war on Spain in 1521. At the time, prodigious treasures from Mexico began to cross the Atlantic en route to Spain. French monarch Francis I challenged Spain’s exclusivist claims to the New World and its wealth, demanding to see “the clause in Adam’s will which excluded me from my share when the world was being divided.” Giovanni da Verrazzano (aka Jean Florin) led the first recorded French corsair attack against Spanish vessels carrying treasures from the New World. In 1523, off the Cape of St. Vincent, Portugal, his vessels captured two Spanish ships laden with a fabulous treasure consisting of 70,000 ducats worth of gold, large quantities of silver and pearls, and 25,000 pounds of sugar, a much-treasured commodity at the time.\n\nThe first recorded incursion in the Caribbean happened in 1528, when a lone French corsair vessel appeared off the coast of Santo Domingo and its crew sacked the village of San Germán on the western coast of Puerto Rico. In the mid-1530s, corsairs, some Catholic but most of them Protestant (Huguenot), began routinely attacking Spanish vessels and raiding Caribbean ports and coastal towns; the most coveted were Santo Domingo, Havana, Santiago, and San Germán. Corsair port raids in Cuba and elsewhere in the region usually followed the rescate (ransom) model, whereby the aggressors seized villages and cities, kidnapped local residents, and demanded payment for their release. If there were no hostages, corsairs demanded ransoms in exchange for sparing towns from destruction. Whether ransoms were paid or not, corsairs looted, committed unspeakable violence against their victims, desecrated churches and holy images, and left smoldering reminders of their incursions.\n\nIn 1536, France and Spain went to war again and French corsairs launched a series of attacks on Spanish Caribbean settlements and ships. The next year, a corsair vessel appeared in Havana and demanded a 700-ducat rescate. Spanish men-of-war arrived soon and scared off the intruding vessel, which returned soon thereafter to demand yet another rescate. Santiago was also victim of an attack that year, and both cities endured raids yet again in 1538. The waters off Cuba’s northwest became particularly attractive to pirates as commercial vessels returning to Spain had to squeeze through the 90-mile-long strait between Key West and Havana. In 1537–1538, corsairs captured and sacked nine Spanish vessels. While France and Spain were at peace until 1542, beyond-the-line corsair activity continued. When war erupted again, it echoed once more in the Caribbean. A particularly vicious French corsair attack took place in Havana in 1543. It left a gory toll of 200 killed Spanish settlers. In all, between 1535 and 1563, French corsairs carried out around sixty attacks against Spanish settlements and captured over seventeen Spanish vessels in the region (1536–1547).\n\nWhile Frenchmen and Spaniards fought one another in Europe and the Caribbean, England sided with Spain, largely because of dynastic alliances. In 1509, Prince Henry of England married Princess Catherine of Aragon and soon thereafter they were crowned king and queen. It was a tortuous marriage, to say the least, and Henry VIII began to separate from Catherine in 1527. When Pope Clement VII refused to annul the marriage, Henry VIII pushed the English Catholic Church to separate from Rome and become the Church of England, free from the pope’s authority. Following Henry VIII’s death in 1547, yet another Anglo-Spanish dynastic marriage was arranged, this time between Spain’s Prince Phillip and Queen Mary I, the Catholic daughter of Anglican Henry VIII. During their brief reign, the Church of England was again subject to the pope’s authority.\n\nWhen Mary I died in 1558, Phillip II ceased to be king of England and England broke from Rome again. Her successor, Elizabeth, actually rejected a plan to continue the Anglo-Spanish dynastic union when she refused to consider marrying Philip; she was to remain virgin and Protestant. As Protestantism spread further in European kingdoms such as England and France and it became predominant in other formerly Catholic nations, religious antagonisms played an increasingly important role in determining war and peace among the nations of Europe. Tensions increased between England and Spain, particularly following the ascent of Anglican Queen Elizabeth to the throne in 1558. The new English monarch’s anti-Catholic zeal mirrored Philip II’s trenchant hatred of the Protestant faith. Protestantism also spread in France and throughout parts of the Holy Roman Empire. By the mid-1560s, two discernible opposing blocs had taken shape: a southern European Catholic bloc led by Spain and a northern European bloc led by England.\n\nOne of the most valuable ideological weapons of the Reformation and wars against Catholic Spain was the “Black Legend,” the systematic denigration of Spain and its people, culture, and religion. Largely fed by the works of Bartolomé de las Casas, English and Dutch Protestants portrayed Spaniards as backward, dishonest, fanatical, cruel, and lazy. Dutch, English, and German editions of las Casas’ Brief Account of the Destruction of the Indies circulated throughout Europe beginning in 1578 with titles such as “Spanish cruelties and tyrannies.” Theodore De Bry, a Protestant, edited, illustrated, and published editions of las Casas’ book and others on related topics and included gruesome engravings depicting Spanish cruelty.\n\nSpain’s relations with England further soured upon the crowning of Elizabeth in 1558. She openly supported the Dutch insurrection and aided Huguenot forces in France. After decades of increasing tensions and confrontations in the northern Atlantic and the Caribbean, Anglo-Spanish hostilities broke out in 1585, when the English Crown dispatched over 7,000 troops to the Netherlands and Queen Elizabeth liberally granted licenses for privateers to carry out piracy against Spain’s Caribbean possessions and vessels. Tensions further intensified in 1587, when Elizabeth I ordered the execution of Catholic Mary Queen of Scotts after twenty years of captivity and gave the order for a preemptive attack against the Spanish Armada stationed in Cadiz. In retaliation, Spain organized the famous naval attack that ended tragically for Spain with the destruction of the “invincible” Armada in 1588. Spain rebuilt its naval forces, largely with galleons built in Havana, and continued to fight England until Elizabeth’s death in 1603. Spain, however, had received a near-fatal blow that ended its standing as Europe’s most powerful nation and virtually undisputed master of the Indies.\n\nFollowing the Franco-Spanish peace treaty of 1559, crown-sanctioned French corsair activities subsided, but piratical Huguenot incursions persisted and in at least one instance led to the formation of a temporary Huguenot settlement in the Isle of Pines, off Cuba. English piracy increased during the reign of Charles I, King of England, Scotland, and Ireland (1625–1649) and became more aggressive as Anglo-Spanish relations tensed up further during the Thirty Years’ War. Although Spain and the Netherlands had been at war since the 1560s, the Dutch were latecomers, appearing in the region only after the mid-1590s, when the Dutch Republic was no longer on the defensive in its long conflict against Spain. Dutch privateering became more widespread and violent beginning in the 1620s.\n\nEnglish incursions in the Spanish-claimed Caribbean boomed during Queen Elizabeth’s rule. These actions originally took the guise of well-organized, large-scale smuggling expeditions headed by piratical smugglers the likes of John Hawkins, John Oxenham, and Francis Drake; their primary objectives were smuggling African slaves into Spain’s Caribbean possessions in exchange for tropical products. The first instances of English mercantile piracy took place in 1562–63, when Hawkins’ men raided a Portuguese vessel off the coast of Sierra Leone, captured the 300 slaves on board, and smuggled them into Santo Domingo in exchange for sugar, hides, and precious woods. Hawkins and his contemporaries mastered the devilish art of maximizing the number of slaves that could fit into a ship. He and other slave traders methodically packed slaves by having them lay on their sides, spooned against one another. Such was the case of the slave-trading vessel bearing the sub-lime name Jesus of Lübeck, into whose pestilent bowels, in partnership with Elizabeth I, Hawkins jammed 400 African slaves. In 1567 and 1568, Hawkins commanded two piratical smuggling expeditions, the last of which ended disastrously; he lost almost all of his ships and three-fourths of his men were killed by Spanish soldiers at San Juan de Ulúa, off the coast of Veracruz, the point of departure of the fleet of New Spain. Hawkins and Drake barely escaped but Oxenham was captured, convicted of heresy by the Inquisition and burned alive.\n\nMany of the battles of the Anglo-Spanish war were fought in the Caribbean, not by regular English troops but rather by privateers whom Queen Elizabeth had licensed to carry out attacks on Spanish vessels and ports. These were former pirates who now held a more venerable status as privateers. During those years, over seventy-five documented English privateering expeditions targeted Spanish possessions and vessels. Drake terrorized Spanish vessels and ports. Early in 1586, his forces seized Santo Domingo, retaining control over it for around a month. Before departing they plundered and destroyed the city, taking a huge bounty. Drake’s men destroyed church images and ornaments and even erected a defensive palisade with wooden images of saints in the hope that the Spanish soldiers’ Catholic fervor would keep them from firing saints as human shields of sorts.\n\nThe development of agriculture in the Caribbean required a large workforce of manual labourers, which the Europeans found by taking advantage of the slave trade in Africa. The Atlantic slave trade brought African slaves to British, Dutch, French, Portuguese and Spanish colonies in the Americas, including the Caribbean. Slaves were brought to the Caribbean from the early 16th century until the end of the 19th century. The majority of slaves were brought to the Caribbean colonies between 1701 and 1810. Also in 1816 there was a slave revolution in the colony of Barbados.\n\nThe following table lists the number of slaves brought into some of the Caribbean colonies:\n\nAbolitionists in the Americas and in Europe became vocal opponents of the slave trade throughout the 19th century. The importation of slaves to the colonies was often outlawed years before the end of the institution of slavery itself. It was well into the 19th century before many slaves in the Caribbean were legally free. The trade in slaves was abolished in the British Empire through the Abolition of the Slave Trade Act in 1807. Men, women and children who were already enslaved in the British Empire remained slaves, however, until Britain passed the Slavery Abolition Act in 1833. When the Slavery Abolition Act came into force in 1834, roughly 700,000 slaves in the British West Indies immediately became free; other enslaved workers were freed several years later after a period of forced apprenticeship. Slavery was abolished in the Dutch Empire in 1814. Spain abolished slavery in its empire in 1811, with the exceptions of Cuba, Puerto Rico, and Santo Domingo; Spain ended the slave trade to these colonies in 1817, after being paid ₤400,000 by Britain. Slavery itself was not abolished in Cuba until 1886. France abolished slavery in its colonies in 1848.\n\n\"The official plantocratic view of slave marriage sought to deny the slaves any loving bonds or long-standing relationships, thus conveniently rationalising the indiscriminate separation of close kin through sales.\" \"From the earliest days of slavery, indiscriminate sales and separation severely disrupted the domestic life of individual slaves.\" Slaves could be sold so that spouses could be sold separately. \"Slave couples were sometimes separated by sale ... They lived as single slaves or as part of maternal or extended families but considered themselves 'married. Sale of estates with \"stock\" to pay debts, more common in the late period of slavery, was criticized as separating slave spouses. William Beckford argued for \"families to be sold together or kept as near as possible in the same neighbourhood\" and \"laws were passed in the late period of slavery to prevent the breakup of slave families by sale, ... [but] these laws were frequently ignored\". \"Slaves frequently reacted strongly to enforced severance of their emotional bonds\", feeling \"sorrow and despair\", sometimes, according to Thomas Cooper in 1820, resulting in death from distress. John Stewart argued against separation as leading slave buyers to regret it because of utter or period to their lives. Separated slaves often used free time to travel long distances to reunite for a night and sometimes runaway slaves were married couples. However, \"sale of slaves and the resulting breakup of families decreased as slave plantations lost prosperity.\"\n\nEuropean plantations required laws to regulate the plantation system and the many slaves imported to work on the plantations. This legal control was the most oppressive for slaves inhabiting colonies where they outnumbered their European masters and where rebellion was persistent such as Jamaica. During the early colonial period, rebellious slaves were harshly punished, with sentences including death by torture; less serious crimes such as assault, theft, or persistent escape attempts were commonly punished with mutilations, such as the cutting off of a hand or a foot.\n\nUnder British rule, slaves could only be freed with the consent of their master, and therefore freedom for slaves was rare. British colonies were able to establish laws through their own legislatures, and the assent of the local island governor and the Crown. British law considered slaves to be property, and thus did not recognize marriage for slaves, family rights, education for slaves, or the right to religious practices such as holidays. British law denied all rights to freed slaves, with the exception of the right to a jury trial. Otherwise, freed slaves had no right to own property, vote or hold office, or even enter some trades.\n\nThe French Empire regulated slaves under the Code Noir (Black Code) which was in force throughout the empire, but which was based upon French practices in the Caribbean colonies. French law recognized slave marriages, but only with the consent of the master. French law, like Spanish law, gave legal recognition to marriages between European men and black or Creole women. French and Spanish laws were also significantly more lenient than British law in recognizing manumission, or the ability of a slave to purchase their freedom and become a \"freeman\". Under French law, free slaves gained full rights to citizenship. The French also extended limited legal rights to slaves, for example the right to own property, and the right to enter contracts.\n\nThe exploitation of the Caribbean landscape dates back to the Spanish conquistadors starting in the 1490s, who forced indigenous peoples held by Spanish settlers in encomienda to mine for gold. The more significant development came when Christopher Columbus wrote back to Spain that the islands were made for sugar development. The history of Caribbean agricultural dependency is closely linked with European colonialism which altered the financial potential of the region by introducing a plantation system. Much like the Spanish exploited indigenous labor to mine gold, the 17th century brought a new series of oppressors in the form of the Dutch, the English, and the French. By the middle of the 18th century sugar was Britain's largest import which made the Caribbean that much more important as a colony.\n\nSugar was a luxury in Europe prior to the 18th century. It became widely popular in the 18th century, then graduated to becoming a necessity in the 19th century. This evolution of taste and demand for sugar as an essential food ingredient unleashed major economic and social changes. Caribbean islands with plentiful sunshine, abundant rainfalls and no extended frosts were well suited for sugarcane agriculture and sugar factories.\n\nFollowing the emancipation of slaves in 1833 in the United Kingdom, many liberated Africans left their former masters. This created an economic chaos for British owners of Caribbean sugar cane plantations. The hard work in hot, humid farms required a regular, docile and low-waged labour force. The British looked for cheap labour. This they found initially in China and then mostly in India. The British crafted a new legal system of forced labour, which in many ways resembled enslavement. Instead of calling them slaves, they were called indentured labour. Indians and southeast Asians began to replace Africans previously brought as slaves, under this indentured labour scheme to serve on sugarcane plantations across the British empire. The first ships carrying indentured labourers for sugarcane plantations left India in 1836. Over the next 70 years, numerous more ships brought indentured labourers to the Caribbean, as cheap and docile labor for harsh inhumane work. The slave labor and indentured labor - both in millions of people - were brought into Caribbean, as in other European colonies throughout the world.\nThe New World plantations were established in order to fulfill the growing needs of the Old World. The sugar plantations were built with the intention of exporting the sugar back to Britain which is why the British did not need to stimulate local demand for the sugar with wages. A system of slavery was adapted since it allowed the colonizer to have an abundant work force with little worry about declining demands for sugar. In the 19th century wages were finally introduced with the abolition of slavery. The new system in place however was similar to the previous as it was based on white capital and colored labor. Large numbers of unskilled workers were hired to perform repeated tasks, which made if very difficult for these workers to ever leave and pursue any non farming employment. Unlike other countries, where there was an urban option for finding work, the Caribbean countries had money invested in agriculture and lacked any core industrial base. The cities that did exist offered limited opportunities to citizens and almost none for the unskilled masses who had worked in agriculture their entire lives. The products produced brought in no profits for the countries since they were sold to the colonial occupant buyer who controlled the price the products were sold at. This resulted in extremely low wages with no potential for growth since the occupant nations had no intention of selling the products at a higher price to themselves.\n\nThe result of this economic exploitation was a plantation dependence which saw the Caribbean nations possessing a large quantity of unskilled workers capable of performing agricultural tasks and not much else. After many years of colonial rule the nations also saw no profits brought into their country since the sugar production was controlled by the colonial rulers. This left the Caribbean nations with little capital to invest towards enhancing any future industries unlike European nations which were developing rapidly and separating themselves technologically and economically from most impoverished nations of the world.\n\nThe Caribbean region was war-torn throughout much of colonial history, but the wars were often based in Europe, with only minor battles fought in the Caribbean. Some wars, however, were borne of political turmoil in the Caribbean itself.\n\nPiracy in the Caribbean was often a tool used by the European empires to wage war unofficially against one another. Gold plundered from Spanish ships and brought to Britain had a pivotal effect on European interest in colonizing the region.\n\nThe plantation system and the slave trade that enabled its growth led to regular slave resistance in many Caribbean islands throughout the colonial era. Resistance was made by escaping from the plantations altogether, and seeking refuge in the areas free of European settlement. Communities of escaped slaves, who were known as Maroons, banded together in heavily forested and mountainous areas of the Greater Antilles and some of the islands of the Lesser Antilles. The spread of the plantations and European settlement often meant the end of many Maroon communities, although they survived on Saint Vincent and Dominica, and in the more remote mountainous areas of Jamaica, Hispaniola, Guadeloupe and Cuba.\n\nViolent resistance broke out periodically on the larger Caribbean islands. Many more conspiracies intended to create rebellions were discovered and ended by Europeans before they could materialize. Actual violent uprisings, involving anywhere from dozens to thousands of slaves, were regular events, however. Jamaica and Cuba in particular had many slave uprisings. Such uprisings were brutally crushed by European forces.\n\nThe following table lists slave rebellions that resulted in actual violent uprisings:\n\nHaiti, the former French colony of Saint-Domingue on Hispaniola, was the first Caribbean nation to gain independence from European powers in 1804. This followed 13 years of war that started as a slave uprising in 1791 and quickly turned into the Haitian Revolution under the leadership of Toussaint l'Ouverture, where the former slaves defeated the French army (twice), the Spanish army, and the British army, before becoming the world's first and oldest black republic, and also the second-oldest republic in the Western Hemisphere after the United States. This is additionally notable as being the only successful slave uprising in history. The remaining two-thirds of Hispaniola were conquered by Haitian forces in 1821. In 1844, the newly formed Dominican Republic declared its independence from Haiti.\n\nThe nations bordering the Caribbean in Central America gained independence with the 1821 establishment of the First Mexican Empire—which at that time included the modern states of Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica. The nations bordering the Caribbean in South America also gained independence from Spain in 1821 with the establishment of Gran Colombia—which comprised the modern states of Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, and Panama.\n\nCuba and Puerto Rico remained as Spanish colonies until the Spanish–American War in 1898, after which Cuba attained its independence in 1902, and Puerto Rico became an unincorporated territory of the United States, being the last of the Greater Antilles under colonial control.\n\nBetween 1958 and 1962 most of the British-controlled Caribbean was integrated as the new West Indies Federation in an attempt to create a single unified future independent state—but it failed. The following former British Caribbean island colonies achieved independence in their own right; Jamaica (1962), Trinidad & Tobago (1962), Barbados (1966), Bahamas (1973), Grenada (1974), Dominica (1978), St. Lucia (1979), St. Vincent (1979), Antigua & Barbuda (1981), St. Kitts & Nevis (1983).\n\nIn addition British Honduras in Central America became independent as Belize (1981), British Guiana in South America became independent as Guyana (1966), and Dutch Guiana also in South America became independent as Suriname (1975).\n\nIt should be noted that as of the early 21st century, not all Caribbean islands have become independent. Several islands continue to have government ties with European countries, or with the United States.\n\nFrench overseas departments and territories include several Caribbean islands. Guadeloupe and Martinique are French overseas regions, a legal status that they have had since 1946. Their citizens are considered full French citizens with the same legal rights. In 2003, the populations of St. Martin and St. Barthélemy voted in favour of secession from Guadeloupe in order to form separate overseas collectivities of France. After a bill was passed in the French Parliament, the new status took effect on 22 February 2007.\n\nPuerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands are officially territories of the United States, but are sometimes referred to as \"protectorates\" of the United States. They are self governing territories subject to Congress plenary powers over the territories.\n\nBritish overseas territories in the Caribbean include:\n\nAruba, Curaçao, and Sint Maarten are all presently separate constituent countries, formerly part of the Netherlands Antilles. Along with Netherlands, they form the four constituent countries of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Citizens of these islands have full Dutch citizenship.\n\nSince the Monroe Doctrine, the United States gained a major influence on most Caribbean nations. In the early part of the twentieth century this influence was extended by participation in The Banana Wars. Areas outside British or French control became known in Europe as \"America's tropical empire\".\n\nVictory in the Spanish–American War and the signing of the Platt amendment in 1901 ensured that the United States would have the right to interfere in Cuban political and economic affairs, militarily if necessary. After the Cuban revolution of 1959 relations deteriorated rapidly leading to the Bay of Pigs Invasion, the Cuban Missile Crisis and successive US attempts to destabilise the island. The US invaded and occupied Hispaniola (present day Dominican Republic and Haiti) for 19 years (1915–34), subsequently dominating the Haitian economy through aid and loan repayments. The United States invaded Haiti again in 1994 and in 2004 were accused by CARICOM of arranging a coup d'état to remove elected Haitian leader Jean-Bertrand Aristide.\n\nIn 1965, 23,000 U.S. troops landed in the Dominican Republic to quash a military coup in what was the first U.S. military intervention in Latin America in more than 30 years. President Lyndon Johnson had ordered the invasion to stem what he claimed to be a \"Communist threat\", but the mission appeared ambiguous and was condemned throughout the hemisphere as a return to gunboat diplomacy. In 1983 the United States invaded Grenada to remove populist left-wing leader Maurice Bishop. The United States maintains a naval military base in Cuba at Guantanamo Bay. The base is one of five unified commands whose \"area of responsibility\" is Latin America and the Caribbean. The command is headquartered in Miami, Florida.\n\nAs an arm of the economic and political network of the Americas, the influence of the United States stretches beyond a military context. In economic terms, the United States represents a primary market for the export of Caribbean goods. Notably, this is a recent historical trend. The post-war era reflects a time of transition for the Caribbean basin when, as colonial powers sought to disentangle from the region (as part of a larger trend of decolonization), the US began to expand its hegemony throughout the region. This pattern is confirmed by economic initiatives such as the Caribbean Basin Initiative (CBI), which sought to congeal alliances with the region in light of a perceived Soviet threat. The CBI marks the emergence of the Caribbean basin as a geopolitical area of strategic interest to the US.\n\nThis relationship has carried through to the 21st century, as reflected by the Caribbean Basin Trade Partnership Act. The Caribbean Basin is also of strategic interest in regards to trade routes; it has been estimated that nearly half of US foreign cargo and crude oil imports are brought via Caribbean seaways. During wartime, these figures only stand to increase. It is important to note that the United States is also of strategic interest to the Caribbean. Caribbean foreign policy seeks to strengthen its participation in a global free market economy. As an extension of this, Caribbean states do not wish to be excluded from their primary market in the United States, or be bypassed in the creation of “wider hemispheric trading blocs” that stand to drastically alter trade and production in the Caribbean Basin. As such, the US has played an influential role in shaping the Caribbean’s role in this hemispheric market. Likewise, building trade relationships with the US has always figured in strongly with the political goal of economic security in post-independence Caribbean states.\n\nThe mainstay of the Caribbean economy, sugar, has declined gradually since the beginning of the 20th century, although it is still a major crop in the region. Caribbean sugar production became relatively expensive in comparison to other parts of the world that developed their own sugar cultivation industries, making it difficult for Caribbean sugar products to compete. Caribbean economic diversification into new activities became essential to the islands.\n\nBy the beginning of the 20th century, the Caribbean islands enjoyed greater political stability. Large-scale violence was no longer a threat after the end of slavery in the islands. The British-controlled islands in particular benefited from investments in the infrastructure of colonies. By the beginning of World War I, all British-controlled islands had their own police force, fire department, doctors and at least one hospital. Sewage systems and public water supplies were built, and death rates in the islands dropped sharply. Literacy also increased significantly during this period, as schools were set up for students descended from African slaves. Public libraries were established in large towns and capital cities.\n\nThese improvements in the quality of life for the inhabitants also made the islands a much more attractive destination for visitors. Tourists began to visit the Caribbean in larger numbers by the beginning of the 20th century, although there was a tourist presence in the region as early as the 1880s. The U.S.-owned United Fruit Company operated a fleet of \"banana boats\" in the region that doubled as tourist transportation. The United Fruit Company also developed hotels for tourist accommodations. It soon became apparent, however, that this industry was much like a new form of colonialism; the hotels operated by the company were fully staffed by Americans, from chefs to waitresses, in addition to being owned by Americans, so that the local populations saw little economic benefit. The company also enforced racial discrimination in many policies for its fleet. Black passengers were assigned to inferior cabins, were sometimes denied bookings, and were expected to eat meals early before white passengers. The most popular early destinations were Jamaica and the Bahamas; the Bahamas remains today the most popular tourist destination in the Caribbean.\n\nPost-independence economic needs, particularly in the aftermath of the end of preferential agricultural trade ties with Europe, led to a boom in the development of the tourism industry in the 1980s and thereafter. Large luxury hotels and resorts have been built by foreign investors in many of the islands. Cruise ships are also regular visitors to the Caribbean.\n\nSome islands have gone against this trend, such as Cuba and Haiti, whose governments chose not to pursue foreign tourism, although Cuba has developed this part of the economy very recently. Other islands lacking sandy beaches, such as Dominica, missed out on the 20th-century tourism boom, although they have recently begun to develop eco-tourism, diversifying the tourism industry in the Caribbean.\n\nThe development of offshore banking services began during the 1920s. The close proximity of the Caribbean islands to the United States has made them an attractive location for branches of foreign banks. Clients from the United States take advantage of offshore banking services to avoid U.S. taxation. The Bahamas entered the financial services industry first, and continues to be at the forefront of financial services in the region. The Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands, and the Netherlands Antilles have also developed competitive financial services industries.\n\nPorts both large and small were built throughout the Caribbean during the colonial era. The export of sugar on a large scale made the Caribbean one of the world's shipping cornerstones, as it remains today. Many key shipping routes still pass through the region.\n\nThe development of large-scale shipping to compete with other ports in Central and South America ran into several obstacles during the 20th century. Economies of scale, high port handling charges, and a reluctance by Caribbean governments to privatize ports put Caribbean shipping at a disadvantage. Many locations in the Caribbean are suitable for the construction of deepwater ports for commercial ship container traffic, or to accommodate large cruise ships. The deepwater port at Bridgetown, Barbados, was completed by British investors in 1961. A more recent deepwater port project was completed by Hong Kong investors in Grand Bahama in the Bahamas.\n\nSome Caribbean islands take advantage of flag of convenience policies followed by foreign merchant fleets, registering the ships in Caribbean ports. The registry of ships at \"flag of convenience\" ports is protected by the Law of the Sea and other international treaties. These treaties leave the enforcement of labour, tax, health and safety, and environmental laws under the control of the registry, or \"flag\" country, which in practical terms means that such regulations seldom result in penalties against the merchant ship. The Cayman Islands, Bahamas, Antigua, Bermuda, and St. Vincent are among the top 11 flags of convenience in the world. However, the flag of convenience practice has been a disadvantage to Caribbean islands as well, since it also applies to cruise ships, which register outside the Caribbean and thus can evade Caribbean enforcement of the same territorial laws and regulations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29633506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29633506", "title": "Ibn al-Jazari", "text": "Ibn al-Jazari\n\nAbu al-Khayr Shams al-Din Muhammad ibn Muhammad ibn Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Yusuf al-Jazari (, 26 November 1350– 2 December 1429) was a distinguished and prolific scholar in the field of the qira'at of the Qur'an, whom al-Suyuti regarded as the \"ultimate authority on these matters\". His works on tajwid and qira'at are considered classics. The nisba (attributive title), \"Jazari\", denotes an origin from \"Jazirat ibn 'Umar\".\n\nAl-Jazari was born in Damascus on Friday 26 November 1350 (25 Ramadan 751 AH), at a time where his parents were long past the age of having children, yet his father (a merchant), had not given up all hope of having a child even after 40 years of marriage. It is said that Al-Jazari was born after his father's prayers for a son during the Hajj. \n\nHe completed the memorization of the Qur'an at the age of 13 and learned the art of Qur'anic recitation at an early age. In Damascus, al-Jazari founded and headed Dar al-Qur'an, a school that specialized in Qur'anic sciences. He travelled to Mecca, Medina, Cairo and Alexandria where he took knowledge from its scholars and in 774 AH, he was authorized by his teacher Ibn Kathir to issue verdicts in Islamic law. He served as a qadi (judge) of Damascus in 793 AH and later in Shiraz where he died.\n\nAl-Jazri died at the age of 79 on Friday 2 December 1429 (5 Rabi' al-awwal 833 AH) in Shiraz, Iran.\n\nAl-Jazari compiled more than 90 works on qira'at, hadith, history and other disciples. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "49348540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49348540", "title": "Igor Volgin", "text": "Igor Volgin\n\nIgor Leonidovich Volgin (; born March 6, 1942, Molotov) is a Soviet and Russian writer and historian, poet, specialist in literature.\n\nIgor Volgin was born in March 1942 in Molotov, where his parents were in the evacuation. Father Leonid Samuilovich Volgin (1909-2002) a journalist. His mother, Rakhil Lvovna Volgina (1912-2002) corrector.\n\nIn 1959 he graduated from the Moscow school No 626, from 1959 to 1964 - student MSU Faculty of History. Still during the period of study at the university he became known as a poet.\n\nScientific interests Igor Volgin studying the life and work of Fyodor Dostoyevsky, the history of Russian literature, the history of Russian journalism XIX century, Russian history. Volgin - author of over 250 scientific papers.\n\nIn 1997, Igor Volgin creates Dostoevsky Foundation, whose goal is to promote the study of the life and works of Russian classics, the implementation of scientific and cultural programs.\n\nLead author of the program \"Glass Bead Game\" on channel Russia-K.\n\nWife Katya Volgina (born September 13, 1987).\n"}
{"id": "437792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=437792", "title": "Imperial province", "text": "Imperial province\n\nAn imperial province was a Roman province during the Principate where the Roman Emperor had the sole right to appoint the governor (\"legatus Augusti\"). These provinces were often the strategically located border provinces.\n\nThe provinces were grouped into imperial and senatorial provinces shortly after the accession of Augustus.\n\nThe following provinces were imperial provinces:\n\n"}
{"id": "37045030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37045030", "title": "Ivan Božić (historian)", "text": "Ivan Božić (historian)\n\nIvan Božić (); (April 23, 1915 — August 20, 1977) was a Yugoslavian historian and member of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts. He was expert in history of medieval Zeta and the Venetian Republic's policy toward its coastal areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51073723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51073723", "title": "Josette Altmann Borbón", "text": "Josette Altmann Borbón\n\nJosette Altmann Borbón (born February 17, 1958 San José, Costa Rica) is a Costa Rican historian, public figure and politician. She previously served as the First Lady of Costa Rica from 1994 to 1998 during the tenure of her ex-husband, former President José María Figueres. In June 2016, Altmann was elected Secretary General of the Latin American Social Sciences Institute (FLACSO), an inter-governmental organization dedicated to researching and teaching of the social sciences in Latin America and the Caribbean. She is the first woman to become Secretary General of FLACSO.\n\nAltmann Borbón holds a bachelor's degree in history and a master's degree in political science from the University of Costa Rica. She received her doctorate in humanities from Leiden University in the Netherlands.\n\nShe has served as a post-graduate professor at the University of Costa Rica's Department of Education and Social Sciences.\n\nOn June 3, 2016, Altmann was elected Secretary General of FLACSO. She will take office on July 31, 2016. Altmann had previously worked as a regional coordinator of international cooperation for FLACSO's General Secretariat from 2006 to 2012.\n"}
{"id": "14863550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14863550", "title": "La Hoya, Alava", "text": "La Hoya, Alava\n\nThe ancient town of \"La Hoya\" (Biasteri, Alava, Basque Country) is a most important archaeological site of the Bronze and Iron Ages of the Basque Country and nearby areas of Spain.\n\nThe fortified town was inhabited between the 15th and 3rd centuries BCE and occupies four hectares. It has three levels:\n\n\nThe successive layers of rubble, that served as cimentations for further edification, make up a small tell 3 meters high.\n\nThe town was destroyed violently c. 300 BCE, leaving the remains of the people and their quotidain tools in the streets.\n\n"}
{"id": "37487059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37487059", "title": "List of massacres in Palestine", "text": "List of massacres in Palestine\n\nThe following is a list of massacres that have occurred in Palestine prior to the establishment of the British Mandate for Palestine. For massacres that took place prior to the name \"Palestine\" being adopted, see List of massacres in ancient Israel. For massacres that took place in the British Mandate for Palestine, see List of killings and massacres in Mandatory Palestine. For massacres that took place during the 1948 Palestine War, see Killings and massacres during the 1948 Palestine War. For massacres that took place prior to the British Mandate, see List of massacres in Palestine. For massacres that have occurred in Israel following its declaration of independence, see List of massacres in Israel. For massacres that have occurred in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip since 1948, see List of massacres in Palestinian Territories.\n\nPalestine is a name, among others, for the geographic region between the Mediterranean Sea and the Jordan River, and various adjoining lands. The region is also known as the Land of Israel and the Holy Land.\n\n"}
{"id": "6152771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6152771", "title": "List of wars between democracies", "text": "List of wars between democracies\n\nThis is an incomplete list of wars between entities that have a constitutionally democratic form of government and actually practice it. Two points are required: that there has been a war, and that there are democracies on at least two opposing sides. For many of these entries, whether there has been a war, or a democracy, is a debatable question; all significant views should be given. For example, see list of types of democracy.\n\nAlmost all of these depend on the definition of \"democracy\" (and of \"war\") employed. As James Lee Ray points out, with a sufficiently restrictive definition of democracy, there will be no wars between democracies: define democracy as true universal suffrage, the right of all – including children – to vote, and there have been no democracies, and so no wars between them.\n\nOn the other hand, Ray lists the following as having been called wars between democracies, with broader definitions of democracy: The American Revolution including the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War, the French Revolutionary Wars, the War of 1812, the Belgian Revolution, the Sonderbund War, the war of 1849 between the Roman Republic and the Second French Republic, the American Civil War, the Spanish–American War, the Second Philippine War, the Second Boer War, World War I, World War II (as a whole, and also the Continuation War by itself), the Israeli War of Independence, the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947–1948, the Six-Day War, the Yugoslav Wars, and the Armenia-Azerbaijan War. Many Native American tribes also had democratic forms of government, and they often fought each other up until the late 19th century, as did many tribes of Norsemen during the Middle Ages.\n\nSimilarly, the school of Ted Robert Gurr, founder of the Polity IV dataset, divides regimes into three classes: democracies, autocracies, and \"anocracies\"; the last being the sort of weak or new states which are marginal democracies or marginal autocracies; many of the wars below involve weak or marginal democracies.\n\nThe Peloponnesian war included a great many conflicts among Greek city-states. The principal war was between Athens and her allies (most of them democracies) on one side, and Sparta and her allies (most of them oligarchies—although most of them held elections among a citizen body) on the other. But the war lasted for twenty-seven years, with a brief armistice, and a great many side-conflicts occurred; and states changed from democracy to oligarchy and back again. Most notable of the wars between democracies was the Sicilian Expedition, 415–413 BC, in which Athens went to war with Syracuse. Bruce Russett finds 13 conflicts between \"clear\" democratic pairs (most of these being Athens and allies in the Sicilian Expedition) and 25 involving \"other\" democratic pairs. Classicist Mogens Herman Hansen thinks one of Russett's examples unlikely, but adds several instances of wars between democracies before and after the Peloponnesian War.\n\nThe constitution of the Roman Republic, before its collapse in the late 1st century BC, is amply documented; its magistrates (including the Roman Senate, which was composed of current and former magistrates) were elected by universal suffrage by adult (male) citizens; all male citizens were eligible. There was a political class of wealthy men; most successful candidates belonged to this class, and all of them were supported by a party drawn from it, but this does not distinguish Rome from other democracies—nor, indeed, from non-democratic states; freedom of speech was, however, a characteristic difference between the Republic and the later Roman Empire.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35628589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35628589", "title": "Ludwik Finkel", "text": "Ludwik Finkel\n\nLudwik Finkel (born 20 March 1858 in Bursztyn, d. 24 October 1930 in Lwów) was a Polish historian, and rector of the Lviv University.\n\nFrom 1878 to 1881 he studied history, philosophy and history of literature at the Lwów University under the tutelage Aleksander Hirschberg, Julian Ochorowicz and Roman Pilat. His master was Ksawery Liske. Good friend of Finkel was Stanisław Lukas. In 1882 he gained a PhD. Topic of his thesis was \"Marcin Kromer, historyk polski XVI wieku\" (Marcin Kromer, a Polish historian of 16th century).\n\nAmong his students were Natalia Gąsiorowska, Kazimierz Hartleb, Stanisław Kot, Henryk Mościcki.\n\nLudwik Finkel was buried in the Łyczakowski Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "21504509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21504509", "title": "Lü Simian", "text": "Lü Simian\n\nLü Simian (; February 27, 1884 – October 9, 1957) was a prominent Chinese historian as well as a former professor and history department head at Kwang Hua University, a predecessor of the East China Normal University in Shanghai. Lü took the courtesy name Chéngzhī (诚之) and wrote under the pseudonym Núniú (驽牛). His students included famous historians Ch'ien Mu and Yang Kuan. Historian Yan Gengwang (严耕望) considered Lü one of the four greatest modern Chinese historians, along with his student Ch'ien Mu, Chen Yuan, and Chen Yinke.\n\nIn 1926 Lü was invited to teach at Kwang Hua University by his friend and the school's headmaster Qián Jībó (钱基博). Lü remained at the school, which later became part of East China Normal University, until his death.\n\nLü was born in Wujin (now Wujin district of Changzhou city) in China's Jiangsu province. At the age of 15 he entered the county school. In the second year he began teaching himself history. He later became a member of the Doubting Antiquity School which was a group of scholars and writers who showed doubts regarding the authenticity of pre-Qin texts.\n\nHis former residence in Changzhou is a protected property open to the public, offering numerous artifacts from his life displayed in the restored building.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24014383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24014383", "title": "Medelsheim", "text": "Medelsheim\n\nMedelsheim is a German village, part of the municipality of Gersheim, in the Saarpfalz-Kreis, Saarland.\n\nArcheological finds in Medelsheim span the period from the early Bronze Age through the Gallo-Roman period. The earliest written mention of the village of \"Medilinesheim\" is found in a June 28, 888 charter of the East Frankish King Arnulf.\n\nDuring World War II Medelsheim was briefly occupied at the beginning of the war by French troops during the September 1939 Saar Offensive. It was reoccupied by German troops the next month.\n\nIn 1995 Medelsheim was awarded a gold medal in the nationwide competition \"Unser Dorf soll schöner werden\" (Roughly: \"Most Beautiful Village\").\n\nAs of 2013 Medelsheim has a population of approximately 480.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "482446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=482446", "title": "Mediatisation", "text": "Mediatisation\n\nIn politics and law, mediatisation () is the loss of immediacy, the status of persons not subject to local lords but only to a higher authority directly, such as the Holy Roman Emperor. In a feudal context, it is the introduction of an intervening level of authority between a lord and his vassal so that the former is no longer the \"immediate\" lord of the latter, but rather his lordship is mediated by another.\n\nAlthough the process had been going on since the Middle Ages, the term \"mediatisation\" was originally applied to the reorganisation of the German states during the early 19th century. In this case, many states that were immediate vassals of the Holy Roman Emperor became instead vassals of other immediate states so that the total number of states immediately subject to the emperor decreased.\n\nBetween 1803 and 1806, the final years of the Holy Roman Empire, the vast majority of the states of the Holy Roman Empire were mediatised. These states lost their imperial immediacy (\"Reichsunmittelbarkeit\") and became part of other states. The number of states was reduced from about three hundred to about thirty. Mediatisation went along with secularisation: the abolition of most of the ecclesiastical states.\n\nThe legal basis for mediatisation was the \"Reichsdeputationshauptschluss\" of 1803, which had become necessary under pressure from France. The Treaty of the Confederation of the Rhine of 1806 continued the process of mediatisation. The constitution of the German Confederation of 1815 confirmed the mediatisation, but preserved certain rights for the mediatised princes within their former realms, now ranked as state countries, such as first instance jurisdiction, supervision of religion and foundations.\n\nMediatised sovereign houses rank higher than other houses of nominally equal (or higher) rank, but who never ruled a state. This division had great social significance, as mediatised princes were considered equal to royals for marriage purposes; in essence they were regarded as royalty. However, there were two types of mediatised families; old and new. Old were those who have for centuries ruled immediate imperial territories. New families were those who obtained immediate status after the end of the Middle Ages, mostly as a reward for service and loyalty to the reigning Emperor. Most of these families came from hereditary Habsburg lands and south-western Germany; originally they were mediate nobles, upgraded to immediate status. After the mediatisation, these families were officially regarded as equals to royalty; however, the reigning houses often, but not always declined to treat them as such. Emperor Franz Joseph, for example, forbade his nephew’s son, future Charles I of Austria, even to consider a possible match with a Hohenlohe princess even though the Hohenlohes were an old family who reigned for centuries prior to the mediatisation, and King Frederick William III of Prussia had to marry morganatically the Countess Auguste von Harrach even though she came from a mediatised family. \nThus in theory, if a scion from the most obscure mediatised family (say the child of an impoverished mediatised count) married an emperor or a king, their alliance was considered equal, not morganatic, and their children had dynastic rights. In practice, however, this never happened.\nThe authoritative guide to the royal and noble houses of Europe, the \"Almanach de Gotha\", has been, since the late 19th century, divided into three sections: sovereign houses, mediatised houses, and noble houses.\n\n"}
{"id": "18893102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18893102", "title": "Mikołaj Siwicki", "text": "Mikołaj Siwicki\n\nMikołaj Siwicki (ukr Микола Сивiцький, Mykoła Sywićkyj; 20 October 1917 – 13 January 2004) was a Ukrainian literary critic and historian (PhD in Ukrainian (literature)).\n\nBorn in a village just outside Dubno, with the annexation of Volhynia from Poland by the Soviet Union, Siwicki was arrested in 1939 by the NKVD and spent 5 years incarcerated in the Soviet Gulag near Murmansk. At the end of his incarceration walked back to his childhood home in Ukraine, and because his Polish passport had not been changed to a Soviet one, enlisted in the Polish Army. He took part in the capture of Berlin where he lost a leg. As a decorated invalid Polish soldier he was able to receive government subsidies to complete his tertiary education.\n\nSiwicki completed his studies at University of Warsaw (graduated in 1956), doctorate at University of Krakow in 1983 under professor Ryszard Łużny with a dissertation on the Ukrainian writer and university professor Bohdan Łepky.\n\nHe was active in the formation of the Ukrainian Cultural Centre in Warsaw and became editor of the weekly newspaper \"Nasze Słowo\" (1956–1960), before being forced to change his employment to the editing of a Polish commercial newspaper\n\nFrom 1956 Mykoła Siwicki lived in Warsaw Bródnie.\n\n\nSiwicki's works on Polish-Ukrainian conflict are considered by Polish sources to be outside scholarly mainstream In his works he presents the Katyn Massacre as revenge for alleged mistreatment of Ukrainians by Polish state during interwar period\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50224295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50224295", "title": "Muhammad ibn Lubb", "text": "Muhammad ibn Lubb\n\nMuhammad ibn Lubb ibn Musa (? - outskirts of Zaragoza, 898), was a Muslim lord who held the medina quarter of Zaragoza and Larida, in the Upper March of Al-Andalus.\n\nMuhammad was son to Lubb ibn Musa (and thus grandson to the famous Musa ibn Musa ibn Qasi), from the prominent Muwallad Muslim Banu Qasi clan, of Visigothic or Hispano-Roman extraction.\n\nHe had at least six sons, Lubb, Musa, Yusuf, Abd Allah, Yunus and Mutarrif. The sons began to quarrel among themselves, thus provoking, to a great extent, the complete dismantling of Banu Qasi power throughout the Ebro valley.\n\nWhen his father and his uncles rebelled against emir Muhammad I of Córdoba, Muhammad ibn Lubb supported the emir leading an army that defeated his own uncle, Isma'il ibn Musa.\n\nIn 882, he had already conquered Zaragoza, where attempted to rule independent of Córdoba lord, but the constant pressure of the Arab Banu Tujibi clan (), forced him into the choice of selling the Zaragoza to the emir by 885. Raimon, count of Pallars acted as intermediary in the transfer.\n\nAfter further family disputes, and with the ascendancy of Abd Allah to the throne of Córdoba, Muhammad's pact with the new emir led him to be appointed new \"wali\" of Larida (contrarily to the pretensions that the wali of Huesca, the also Muwallad Muhammad al-Tawil, had to such dignity). But Muhammad then ceded the dignity to his son Lubb.\n\nIn 897, Muhammad conquered Toledo.\n\nIn 898, he initiated a new military campaign to recover Zaragoza, but died during its siege surprised by an enemy warrior while he was resting, in October 8.\n\n"}
{"id": "966904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=966904", "title": "Nafplio", "text": "Nafplio\n\nNafplio (, Nauplio or Nauplion in Italian and other Western European languages) is a seaport town in the Peloponnese in Greece that has expanded up the hillsides near the north end of the Argolic Gulf. The town was an important seaport held under a succession of royal houses in the Middle Ages as part of the lordship of Argos and Nauplia, held initially by the de la Roche following the Fourth Crusade before coming under the Republic of Venice and, lastly, the Ottoman Empire. The town was the capital of the First Hellenic Republic and of the Kingdom of Greece, from the start of the Greek Revolution in 1821 until 1834. Nafplio is now the capital of the regional unit of Argolis.\n\nThe name of the town changed several times over the centuries. The modern Greek name of the town is \"Nafplio\" (Ναύπλιο). In modern English, the most frequently used forms are \"Nauplia\" and \"Navplion\".\n\nDuring the Classical Antiquity, it was known as \"Nauplia\" (Ναυπλία) in Attic Greek and \"Naupliē\" (Ναυπλίη) in Ionian Greek. In Latin, it was called \"Nauplia\".\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, several variants were used in Byzantine Greek, including \"Náfplion\" (Ναύπλιον), \"Anáplion\" (Ἀνάπλιον), and \"Anáplia\" (Ἀνάπλια).\n\nDuring the Late Middle Ages and early modern period, under Venetian domination, the town was known in Italian as \"Napoli di Romania\", after the medieval usage of \"Romania\" to refer to the lands of the Byzantine Empire, and to distinguish it from \"Napoli\" (Naples) in Italy.\n\nAlso during the early modern period, but this time under Ottoman rule, the Turkish name of the town was \"Mora Yenişehir\", after Morea, a medieval name for the Peloponnese, and \"yeni şehir\", the Turkish term for \"new city\" (apparently a translation from the Greek Νεάπολη, Italian \"Napoli\"). The Ottomans also called it \"Anabolı\".\n\nIn the 19th century and early 20th century, the town was called indiscriminately \"Náfplion\" (Ναύπλιον) and \"Nafplio\" (Ναύπλιο) in modern Greek. Both forms were used in official documents and travel guides. This explains why the old form \"Náfplion\" (sometimes transliterated to \"Navplion\") still occasionally survives up to this day.\n\nNafplio is situated on the Argolic Gulf in the northeast Peloponnese. Most of the old town is on a peninsula jutting into the gulf; this peninsula forms a naturally protected bay that is enhanced by the addition of man-made moles. Originally almost isolated by marshes, deliberate landfill projects, primarily since the 1970s, have nearly doubled the land area of the city.\n\nThe municipality Nafplio was formed at the 2011 local government reform by the merger of the following 4 former municipalities, that became municipal units:\n\nThe municipality has an area of 390.241 km, the municipal unit 33.619 km.\n\nThe area surrounding Nafplio has been inhabited since ancient times, but few signs of this, aside from the walls of the Acronauplia, remain visible. The town has been a stronghold on several occasions during Classical Antiquity. It seems to be mentioned on an Egyptian funerary inscription of Amenophis III as \"Nuplija\". Nauplia () was the port of Argos, in ancient Argolis. It was situated upon a rocky peninsula, connected with the mainland by a narrow isthmus. It was a very ancient place, and is said to have derived its name from Nauplius, the son of Poseidon and Amymone, and the father of Palamedes, though it more probably owed its name, as Strabo has observed, to its harbour. Pausanias tells us that the Nauplians were Egyptians belonging to the colony which Danaus brought to Argos; and from the position of their city upon a promontory running out into the sea, which is quite different from the site of the earlier Grecian cities, it is not improbable that it was originally a settlement made by strangers from the East. Nauplia was at first independent of Argos, and a member of the maritime confederacy which held its meetings in the island of Calaureia. About the time of the Second Messenian War, it was conquered by the Argives; and the Lacedaemonians gave to its expelled citizens the town of Methone in Messenia, where they continued to reside even after the restoration of the Messenian state by the Theban general Epaminondas. Argos now took the place of Nauplia in the Calaureian confederacy; and from this time Nauplia appears in history only as the seaport of Argos. As such it is mentioned by Strabo, but in the time of Pausanias (2nd century) the place was deserted. Pausanias noticed the ruins of the walls of a temple of Poseidon, certain forts, and a fountain named Canathus, by washing in which Hera was said to have renewed her virginity every year.\n\nThe Acronauplia has walls dating from pre-classical times. Subsequently, Byzantines, Franks, Venetians, and Turks added to the fortifications. In the middle ages Nauplia was called τὸ Ναύπλιον, τὸ Ἀνάπλιον, or τὰ Ἀνάπλια. It became a place of considerable importance in the middle ages, and has continued so down to the present day. In the time of the Crusades it first emerges from obscurity. Nafplio was taken in 1212 by French crusaders of the Principality of Achaea. It became part of the lordship of Argos and Nauplia, which in 1388 was sold to the Republic of Venice, who regarded it as one of their most important places in the Levant. During the subsequent 150 years, the lower city was expanded and fortified, and new fortifications added to Acronauplia.\n\nThe city, under Venetian rule twice repelled Ottoman attacks and sieges, first by Mehmed the Conqueror during the Ottoman–Venetian War (1463–79) and then by Suleiman the Magnificent. The city surrendered to the Ottomans in 1540, who renamed it Mora Yenişehri and established it as the seat of a sanjak. At that period, Nafplio looked very much like the 16th century image shown below to the right.\n\nThe Venetians retook Nafplio in 1685 and made it the capital of their \"Kingdom of the Morea\". The city was strengthened by building the castle of Palamidi, which was in fact the last major construction of the Venetian empire overseas. However, only 80 soldiers were assigned to defend the city and it was easily retaken by the Ottomans in 1715. Palamidi is located on a hill north of the old town. During the Greek War of Independence, it played a major role. It was captured by Staikos Staikopoulos in November 1822.\n\nDuring the Greek War of Independence, Nafplio was a major Ottoman stronghold and was besieged for more than a year. The town finally surrendered on account of forced starvation. After its capture, because of its strong fortifications, it became the seat of the provisional government of Greece.\n\nCount Ioannis Kapodistrias, first head of state of newly liberated Greece, set foot on the Greek mainland for the first time in Nafplio on 7 January 1828 and made it the official capital of Greece in 1829. He was assassinated on 9 October 1831 by members of the Mavromichalis family, on the steps of the church of Saint Spyridon in Nafplio. After his assassination, a period of anarchy followed, until the arrival of King Otto and the establishment of the new Kingdom of Greece. Nafplio remained the capital of the kingdom until 1834, when King Otto decided to move the capital to Athens.\n\nTourism emerged slowly in the 1960s, but not to the same degree as some other Greek areas. Nevertheless, it tends to attract a number of tourists from Germany and the Scandinavian countries in particular. Nafplio enjoys a very sunny and mild climate, even by Greek standards, and as a consequence has become a popular day or weekend road-trip destination for Athenians in wintertime.\n\nNafplio is a port, with fishing and transport ongoing, although the primary source of local employment currently is tourism, with two beaches on the other side of the peninsula from the main body of the town and a large amount of local accommodation.\n\nThe building of the National Bank of Greece is probably the only one in the world to have been built in the Mycenaean Revival architectural style.\n\nSince 1952, the town has been served by public bus (KTEL Argolida), which provides daily services to all destinations in region as well as other major Greek centers such as Athens. The journey to Athens takes two to two hours and 20 minutes, going via Corinth/Isthmos and Argos.\n\nRail service began in 1886 using an earlier station that still stands.\n\nThe town is connected by a branch line of ten kilometers from Argos to Nafplio. In 2011, the Corinth–Tripoli–Nafplio train service was suspended during the Greek financial crisis. There was a plan to re-open the line as an extension of the suburban railway that connects Corinth with Athens, but that has not happened.\n\nAcronauplia is the oldest part of the city though a modern hotel has been built on it. Until the thirteenth century, it was a town on its own. The arrival of the Venetians and the Franks transformed it into part of the town fortifications. Other fortifications of the city include the Palamidi and Bourtzi, which is located in the middle of the harbour.\n\nNafplio maintains a traditional architectural style with many traditional-style colourful buildings and houses, influenced by the Venetians, because of the domination of 1338–1540. Also, modern-era neoclassical buildings are also preserved, while the building of the National Bank of Greece is an example of Mycenaean Revival architecture.\n\nAround the city can be found several sculptures and statues. They are related mostly with the modern history of Nafplio, such as the statues of Ioannis Kapodistrias, Otto of Greece and Theodoros Kolokotronis.\n\n\nSince 2003, the University of Peloponnese has incorporated a new faculty, the School of Fine Arts. In 2007, a single department exists, the Department of Theatre, offering four majors:\n\n\nNafplio is twinned with:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2178318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178318", "title": "National treasure", "text": "National treasure\n\nThe idea of national treasure, like national epics and national anthems, is part of the language of romantic nationalism, which arose in the late 18th century and 19th centuries. Nationalism is an ideology which supports the nation as the fundamental unit of human social life, which includes shared language, values and culture. Thus national treasure, part of the ideology of nationalism, is shared culture.\n\nA national treasure can be a shared cultural asset, which may or may not have monetary value; for example, a skilled banjo player would be a Living National Treasure. Or it may refer to a rare cultural object, such as the medieval manuscript Plan of St. Gall in Switzerland. The government of Japan designates the most famous of the nation's cultural properties as National Treasures of Japan. The National Treasures of Korea are a set of artifacts, sites, and buildings which are recognised by South Korea as having exceptional cultural value.\n\nThere are thousands of national treasures around the world. Listed here are samples of the different types of things that can be national treasure:\n\nExamples of people who have been described as national treasures include the following:\n\nIn 2013 the British satirical magazine \"Private Eye\" began running a column poking fun at an exponential increase in references in the press to \"national treasures\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48884325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48884325", "title": "Pierre Desrey", "text": "Pierre Desrey\n\nPierre Desrey de Troyes () was a French chronicler, historian, genealogist and translator. \nRelatively little is known of his life, but his work is of value to historians.\n\nDesrey was born around 1450 and died around 1514.\nHe was a native of Troyes. His motto was said to be \"Tout par honneur\" (All in good faith).\nLittle is known of his life, but his work indicates that he was well educated and had broad interests.\nHe was a scholar with deep knowledge of the scriptures, a translator and a compiler of history who drew on different sources.\nIn his continuation of the \"Chronicles de Enguerran de Monstrelet\", which includes the whole reign of Charles VIII of France, he describes himself as a \"\"simple orateur de Troyes en Champagne\".\"\nSince there is no record of his being a member of the clergy, \"orateur\" may be taken as meaning \"prose writer\".\n\nDesrey contributed to the \"Mystère de la Passion de Troyes\", and acted in the plays as a member of the \"Compagnons de Mystère\".\nAccording to Théophile Boutiot, Desrey was one of the main actors in 1497, and could be called the principal.\nThat year he represented the eternal Father. The town gave him 100 sous for his expenses and effort.\nHis writings include a Latin version of the \"Danse Macabre\" (1490), a translation of Nicholas of Lyra's \"Les Postilles et Expositions des Epistres et Evangilles Dominacales\" (1493), a translation of Werner Rolevinck's \"Fleurs et Manières des Temps Passées\" (1495), a compilation \"La genealogie avecques les gestes et nobles faitz d'armes du trespreux et renommé prince Godeffroy de Boulion\" (1504), \"Parement et triumphe des Dames d'Olivier de la Marche\" (1510) and contributions on Monstrelet (1512) and Gaguin (1514) to the \"Grandes Chroniques de France\".\n\nDesrey is thought to be the author of several poems, and is also thought to be the author of the Troyes \"Mémoire\".\nThis was apparently written in 1492.\nIt is a set of instructions for artists making tapestries for the Church of Saint-Urbain, Troyes, that would depict legends of Saint Urban and Saint Cecilia.\nThey gave a good sense of the details he thought important as an iconographer, but left considerable freedom of expression to the artist.\n\nDesrey's \"Genealogie de Godefroi de Buillon\", completed in 1499, survives only in print.\nIt gives a complete history of the Crusades, starting with the birth of the \"Chevalier au Cygne\" (Knight of the Swan), the mythical ancestor of Godfrey of Bouillon (1060–1100), and ending after the accession of Philip IV of France (1268–1314).\nAt least six editions are preserved from the 16th century, published between 1504 and 1580.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38484634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38484634", "title": "Polish League Against Defamation", "text": "Polish League Against Defamation\n\nThe Good Name Redoubt – Polish Anti-Defamation League or Polish League Against Defamation () is a non-governmental organization based in Warsaw, Poland. It was founded in 2013 by Maciej Świrski, who according to internet media company Buzzfeed has close ties to the ruling Law and Justice Party.\n\nThe stated objectives of the League are to defend the name of Poland and the Polish people against acts of vilification in the international media or historical misrepresentation in the world of politics. For instance, on the 75th anniversary of the Soviet invasion of Poland in 2014, the League staged a protest in front of the Russian Embassy in Warsaw against the Russian government's denial of responsibility for the atrocities committed by the Soviet Union in occupied Poland. The protest was attended by several hundred people including civil rights organizations such as Euromaidan from Ukraine and Solidarność Walcząca.\n\nAccording to the League's founder Maciej Świrski, the League acts through lobbying, publishing ads, open letters as well as articles which promote Poland's World War II history of defiance, stressing the country's critical role in defeating Nazi Germany. According to Świrski, the League fights \"anti-Polish propaganda\" in foreign media and film, countering widely held perceptions that Poles were co-responsible with the Nazis for the Holocaust, and informs the general public on the \"Polish death camp\" controversy.\n\nFollowing the international release of the 2013 Polish film \"Ida\", the league called for the film to carry title cards stating that Poland was under German occupation during the events depicted. More than 40,000 people signed a petition organized by the league criticizing \"Ida\"'s supposed inaccuracies and anti-Polish bias. The film's director called the demands \"absurd\", \"too silly to comment on\", and \"a stream of hatred from the rightist Polish media\".\n\nThe League collected tens of thousands of signatures in order to pass the Polish Holocaust law, which has been criticized by historians as an attempt to silence discussion of Polish complicity in wartime atrocities. Świrski, who heads the league, was instrumental in passing the bill and was possibly the only person consulted prior to the law being presented to parliament by the Justice ministry. In March 2018, following passage of the Holocaust law, the League filed a lawsuit the Argentine newspaper Pagina12 which published in December 2017 an item on the Jedwabne pogrom which contained a photograph that the League says is a post-war photograph rather than a 1941 photograph from Jedwabne.\n\nThe Daily Telegraph, The Times of Israel, The Jewish Chronicle, and The Jerusalem Post have described the organization as \"nationalist\". According to Amnesty International's Poland researcher Barbora Černušáková, it is a \"nationalist organization close to Poland’s government\". Index on Censorship, has described the organization as a \"campaign group close to the ruling Polish party\", as did The Guardian. The Jewish Telegraphic Agency described the League as a \"right-wing Polish group\". According to Haaretz it is an \"independent organization considered close to Poland’s right-wing, nationalist government\".\n"}
{"id": "32279438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32279438", "title": "Pragmatic ethics", "text": "Pragmatic ethics\n\nMuch as it is appropriate for scientists to act as though a hypothesis were true despite expecting future inquiry to supplant it, ethical pragmatists acknowledge that it can be appropriate to practice a variety of other normative approaches (e.g. consequentialism, deontological ethics, and virtue ethics), yet acknowledge the need for mechanisms which allow society to advance beyond such approaches, a freedom for discourse which does not take any such theory as assumed. Thus, aimed at social innovation, the \"practice\" of pragmatic ethics supplements the practice of other normative approaches with what John Stuart Mill called \"experiments of living\".\n\nPragmatic ethics also differs from other normative approaches \"theoretically\", according to :\n\n\nEstablishing that this normative theory entails pragmatism (or vice versa) remains an open challenge. The \"Blackwell Guide to Ethical Theory\" refers to this theory as pragmatic and finds it in the writings of John Dewey (a pragmatist). However, it also finds key concepts in the writings of John Stuart Mill and Martha Nussbaum, and we can see at least some of its distinguishing characteristics in the concept of social gadfly attributed to Socrates in Plato's \"Apology\".\n\nPragmatic ethics has been criticized as conflating descriptive ethics with normative ethics, as describing the way people \"do\" make moral judgments rather than the way they \"should\" make them. While some ethical pragmatists may have questioned the distinction between normative and descriptive truth, the theory of pragmatic ethics itself does not conflate them any more than science conflates truth about its subject matter with current opinion about it.\n\nMoral ecology is a variation of pragmatic ethics which additionally supposes that morality evolves like an ecosystem, and ethical practice should therefore include strategies analogous to those of ecosystem management (e.g. protecting a degree of moral diversity). The term \"moral ecology\" has been used since at least 1985 to imply a symbiosis whereby the viability of any existing moral approach would be diminished by the destruction of all alternative approaches. According to Tim Dean, current scientific evidence confirms that humans do take diverse approaches to morality, and such polymorphism gives humanity resilience against a wider range of situations and environments (which makes moral diversity a natural consequence of frequency-dependent selection). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2146686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2146686", "title": "Pre-Romanesque art and architecture", "text": "Pre-Romanesque art and architecture\n\nPre-Romanesque art and architecture is the period in European art from either the emergence of the Merovingian kingdom in about AD 500 or from the Carolingian Renaissance in the late 8th century, to the beginning of the 11th century Romanesque period. The term is generally used in English only for architecture and monumental sculpture, but here all the arts of the period are briefly described.\n\nThe primary theme during this period is the introduction and absorption of classical Mediterranean and Early Christian forms with Germanic ones, which fostered innovative new forms. This in turn led to the rise of Romanesque art in the 11th century. In the outline of Medieval art it was preceded by what is commonly called the Migration Period art of the \"barbarian\" peoples: Hiberno-Saxon in the British Isles and predominantly Merovingian on the Continent.\n\nIn most of western Europe, the Roman architectural tradition survived the collapse of the empire. The Merovingians (Franks) continued to build large stone buildings like monastery churches and palaces.\n\nThe unification of the Frankish kingdom under Clovis I (465–511) and his successors, corresponded with the need for the building of churches, and especially monastery churches, as these were now the power-houses of the Merovingian church. Two hundred monasteries existed south of the Loire when St Columbanus, an Irish missionary, arrived in Europe in 585. Only 100 years later, by the end of the 7th century, over 400 flourished in the Merovingian kingdom alone. The building plans often continued the Roman basilica tradition.\n\nMany Merovingian plans have been reconstructed from archaeology. The description in Bishop Gregory of Tours' \"History of the Franks\" of the basilica of Saint-Martin, built at Tours by Saint Perpetuus (bishop 460–490) at the beginning of the period and at the time on the edge of Frankish territory, gives cause to regret the disappearance of this building, one of the most beautiful Merovingian churches, which he says had 120 marble columns, towers at the East end, and several mosaics: \"Saint-Martin displayed the vertical emphasis, and the combination of block-units forming a complex internal space and the correspondingly rich external silhouette, which were to be the hallmarks of the Romanesque\".\n\nThe Merovingian dynasty were replaced by the Carolingian dynasty in AD 752, which led to Carolingian architecture from 780 to 900, and Ottonian architecture in the Holy Roman Empire from the mid-10th century until the mid-11th century. These successive Frankish dynasties were large contributors to Romanesque architecture.\nMerovingian, Carolingian and Ottonian\n\n\nOttonian and Holy Roman Empire\n\nCarolingian art is the roughly 120-year period from about 780 to 900, during Charlemagne's and his immediate heirs' rule, popularly known as the Carolingian Renaissance. Although brief, it was very influential; northern European kings promoted classical Mediterranean Roman art forms for the first time, while also creating innovative new forms such as naturalistic figure line drawings that would have lasting influence. Carolingian churches generally are basilican, like the Early Christian churches of Rome, and commonly incorporated westworks, which is arguably the precedent for the western facades of later medieval cathedrals. An original westwork survives today at the Abbey of Corvey, built in 885. After a rather chaotic interval following the Carolingian period, the new Ottonian dynasty revived Imperial art from about 950, building on and further developing Carolingian style in Ottonian art.\n\nGermanic pre-Romanesque art during the 120-year period from 936 to 1056 is commonly called Ottonian art after the three Saxon emperors named Otto (Otto I, Otto II, and Otto III) who ruled the Holy Roman Empire from 936 to 1001.\n\nAfter the decline of the Carolingian Empire, the Holy Roman Empire was re-established under the Saxon (Ottonian) dynasty. From this emerged a renewed faith in the idea of Empire and a reformed Church, creating a period of heightened cultural and artistic fervour. It was in this atmosphere that masterpieces were created that fused the traditions from which Ottonian artists derived their inspiration: models of Late Antique, Carolingian, and Byzantine origin.\n\nMuch Ottonian art reflected the dynasty's desire to establish visually a link to the Christian rulers of Late Antiquity, such as Constantine, Theoderich, and Justinian as well as to their Carolingian predecessors, particularly Charlemagne.\n\nOttonian monasteries produced some of the most magnificent medieval illuminated manuscripts. They were a major art form of the time, and monasteries received direct sponsorship from emperors and bishops, having the best in equipment and talent available.\n\nIn the 7th century the Croats, with other Slavs and Avars, came from Northern Europe to the region where they live today. The first Croatian churches were built as royal sanctuaries, and the influence of Roman art was strongest in Dalmatia where urbanization was thickest. Gradually that influence was neglected and certain simplifications and alterations of inherited forms, and even creation of original buildings, appeared.\n\nAll of them (a dozen large ones and hundreds of small ones) were built with roughly cut stone bounded with a thick layer of malter on the outside. Large churches are longitudinal with one or three naves like Church of Holy Salvation () at the spring of the river Cetina, built in the 9th century, along with the Church of Saint Cross in Nin. The largest and most complicated central based church from the 9th century is dedicated to Saint Donatus in Zadar.\n\nAltar rails and windows of those churches were highly decorated with transparent shallow string-like ornament that is called \"pleter\" (meaning to weed) because the strings were threaded and rethreaded through itself. Motifs of those reliefs were taken from Roman art; sometimes figures from the Bible appeared alongside this decoration, like \"relief in Holy Nedjeljica\" in Zadar, and then they were subdued by their pattern. This also happened to engravings in early Croatian script – Glagolitic. Soon, the Glagolitic writings were replaced with Latin on altar rails and architraves of old-Croatian churches.\n\nFrom the \"Crown Church of King Zvonimir\" (so called \"Hollow Church\" in Solin) comes the altar board with \"figure of Croatian King\" on the throne with Carolingian crown, servant by his side and subject bowed to the king.\n\nBy joining the Hungarian crown in the twelfth century, Croatia lost its full independence, but it did not lose its ties with the south and the west, and instead this ensured the beginning of a new era of Central European cultural influence.\n\nAnglo-Saxon art covers the period from the time of King Alfred (885), with the revival of English culture after the end of the Viking raids, to the early 12th century, when Romanesque art became the new movement. Prior to King Alfred there had been the Hiberno-Saxon culture, producing in Insular art the fusion of Anglo-Saxon and Celtic techniques and motifs, which had largely ceased in Ireland and Northern England with the Viking invasions. Anglo-Saxon art is mainly known today through illuminated manuscripts and metalwork.\n\nAfter the demise of the Carolingian Empire, France split into a number of feuding provinces, so that lacking any organized Imperial patronage, French art of the 10th and 11th centuries became localised around the large monasteries, and lacked the sophistication of a court-directed style.\n\nMultiple regional styles developed based on the chance availability of Carolingian manuscripts (as models to draw from), and the availability of itinerant artists. The monastery of Saint Bertin became an important centre under its abbot Odbert (986–1007) who created a new style based on Anglo-Saxon and Carolingian forms. The nearby abbey of Saint Vaast created a number of works. In southwestern France at the monastery of Saint Martial in Limoges a number of manuscripts were produced around year 1000, as were produced in Albi, Figeac and Saint-Sever-de-Rustan in Gascony. In Paris there developed a style at the abbey of Saint Germain-des-Prés. In Normandy a new style developed from 975 onward.\n\nThe first form of Pre-Romanesque in Spain and Portugal was the Visigothic art, that brought the horse-shoe arches to the latter Moorish architecture and developed jewellery.\n\nAfter the Moorish occupation, Pre-Romanesque art was first reduced to the Kingdom of Asturias, the only Christian realm in the area at the time which reached high levels of artistic depuration. (See \"Asturian art\"). The Christians who lived in Moorish territory, the Mozarabs, created their own architectural and illumination style, Mozarabic art.\n\nThe best preserved Visigothic monument in Portugal is the Saint Frutuoso Chapel in Braga.\n\nSouthern Italy benefited from the presence and cross fertilization of the Byzantines, the Arabs, and the Normans, while the north was mostly controlled first by the Carolingians. The Normans in Sicily chose to commission Byzantine workshops to decorate their churches such as Monreale and Cefalù Cathedrals where full iconographic programmes of mosaics have survived. Important frescos and illuminated manuscripts were produced.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1609346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1609346", "title": "Rainer Karlsch", "text": "Rainer Karlsch\n\nRainer Karlsch (born 3 April 1957 in Stendal) is a German historian and author.\n\nHe studied economic history at the Humboldt University of Berlin. He graduated in 1986 as a Doctor of Economics.\n\nFrom 1992-1994, assistant to the Historical commission on\nBerlin (Historischen Kommission zu Berlin).\n\nFrom 1995-1998, assistant to a key DFG program.\n\nSince 1999, assistant to Institute for economic policy and economic history of the Free University of Berlin.\n\nTogether with the TV journalist Heiko Petermann, he investigated intensively the four-year history of German atomic research. They were supported by international historians, physicists and radio chemists.\n\nHe is a winner of the Stinnes Award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57768976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57768976", "title": "Rhino Passive Infrared Defeat System", "text": "Rhino Passive Infrared Defeat System\n\nThe Rhino Passive Infrared Defeat System, or Rhino, was an early detonation Counter-IED system that was mounted to the front of a vehicle and used heat to prematurely detonate any hidden improvised explosive devices (IEDs) while the vehicle was at a safe distance away from the blast. It was developed by the Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Organization (JIEDDO) in 2006 during the war in Iraq to counter the rise of IED-related deaths.\n\nDuring the Iraq War, the rising number of troops killed and wounded by underbelly IEDs buried by insurgents in the middle of the road prompted the U.S. military to funnel billions of dollars into the development of several countermeasures to either detect the explosive or minimize the damage. However, the frequent delays in producing and delivering these countermeasures to Iraq lead to shortages in effective IED-defeating technology. As a result, several soldiers on the battlefield ended up improvising their own solutions that took advantage of how the passive infrared sensors on the IEDs reacted to heat signatures. One unnamed soldier proposed mounting a large hair dryer to the front of the vehicle to blow hot air on the road to prematurely set off any hidden IEDs and clear the path. Another soldier supposedly purchased a toaster at a bazaar, plugged the appliance into his Humvee, and attached it to the end of a long pole that was welded to the front of the vehicle. These and other similar ideas led JIEDDO to develop Rhino in 2006, one of their earliest innovations.\n\nThe initial design consisted of a glow plug that was placed inside a metal ammunition can, which was then attached to a 10 ft long metal pole with the other end mounted onto the front of a vehicle. The glow plug acted as a heat decoy, which triggered any nearby IED’s infrared sensor prematurely and fired the copper explosively formed penetrator (EFP) slug at the Rhino instead of the vehicle behind it. The countermeasure proved to be a success at the time as U.S. forces found that the Rhino could not only take the impact of an EFP but also, in rare cases, continue working afterwards.\n\nDespite the favorable outcome of the Rhino’s initial run, insurgents soon began making modifications to the IEDs to account for this countermeasure. Within six weeks, the aim of the EFP was adjusted so that the slug was fired 10 feet back from the Rhino to hit the vehicle. In response, JIEDDO and researchers at the Army Research Laboratory in Adelphi, Maryland designed and developed the Rhino II, which came with a telescoping pole whose length could be adjusted to change the position of the heat decoy. More than 16,000 Rhino II devices were deployed to the U.S. Army and Marines in Iraq by the end of 2008, costing around $1,800 each to produce. Before long, the Rhino II was featured on almost every U.S. vehicle in Iraq. However, by 2010, newer IEDs began to use high-powered radio waves from coalition jammers instead of heat signatures to set of the EFP as a countermeasure against Rhino II. Currently, more than 34,000 Rhino gadgets have been deployed to U.S. troops overseas.\n"}
{"id": "2997552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2997552", "title": "Robert of Torigni", "text": "Robert of Torigni\n\nRobert of Torigni (also known as \"Roburtus de Monte\") (c.1110–1186) was a Norman monk, prior, abbot and an important twelfth century chronicler.\n\nHe was born at Torigni-sur-Vire, Normandy c.1110 most probably to an aristocratic family but his family name was abandoned when he entered Bec Abbey in 1128 In 1149 Robert of Torigni became the prior of Bec replacing Roger de Bailleul who had by that time become abbot. In 1154 Robert became the abbot of Mont Saint-Michel in Normandy. In November 1158 Robert hosted kings Louis VII of France and Henry II of England at Mont Saint-Michel. Three years later Robert de Torigni, along with Achard of St. Victor, Bishop of Avranches, stood as sponsors (Godfathers) to Eleanor, born to Henry II of England and Queen Eleanor at Domfront in 1161. In 1163 he was in Rome. He was also known to have visited England representing Mont Saint-Michel. In June 1186 Robert died and was buried in the nave of the chapel at Mont Saint-Michel under a simple grave marker. In 1876 a lead disc was found in his coffin bearing his epitaph. The translation reads: Here lies Robert Torigni, abbot of this place, who ruled the monastery 32 years, and lived 80 years.\n\nRobert developed a reputation as being a pious monk, an accomplished diplomat, a skilled organizer and a great lover and collector of books. Under Robert de Torigni Mont Saint-Michel became a great center of learning with sixty monks producing copious manuscripts and a library collection so vast it was called the \"Cité des Livres\" (City of Books). Robert himself was called \"The Great Librarian of the Mont\". Robert's principal interest was not so much in man's path to salvation, or in the moral lessons of history; it was in what he called \"chronography\" (organizing historical events in chronological order). He made no attempts to interpret history but wrote plainly \"without a trace of romance in his soul.\"\n\nStevenson said, however, Torigni was not always correct in his chronology and made errors even in matters in Normandy of which he should have known better, yet he was always honest and truthful and his mistakes did not greatly affect the overall value of his chronicle. Modern writers too have pointed out errors in his work; and where he has given confusing or conflicting accounts. Then Delisle wrote that it was through Robert's affection for Henry II that he made almost no mention in his chronicle of the death of Thomas Becket or Henry II's involvement.\n\nHe is best known as the last of the three contributors to the \"Gesta Normannorum Ducum\" (Deeds of the Norman dukes), a chronicle originally written by William of Jumièges, appended to by Orderic Vitalis and lastly Robert de Torigni, who brought the history up to the time of Henry I. Robert relied more on Orderic's work than that of William of Jumièges and added information regarding the reign of William the Conqueror, a history of Bec, and a volume on Henry I. Another source he used was Henry of Huntingdon's \"Historia Anglorum\". Henry, the Archdeacon of Huntingdon, had visited Bec in 1139 and during his stay there provided Robert with much of the information regarding the reign of Henry I which Robert used in his own chronicles. Robert, in turn, introduced Henry to a new work by Geoffrey of Monmouth, the Historia Regum Britanniae, a copy of which first reached Bec circa 1138.\n\nJohn Bale, the sixteenth-century English churchman and historian, in his \"Index Britanniae Scriptorum\", identified Robert as the author of two Arthurian romances, based in part by the author's initialing his work with the letter \"R\". These were \"De Ortu Waluuanii\" and \"Historia Meriadoci\", but this identification remains controversial and is doubted by some authorities.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "7876805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7876805", "title": "Royal Archaeological Institute", "text": "Royal Archaeological Institute\n\nThe Royal Archaeological Institute (RAI) is a learned society, established in 1844, with interests in all aspects of the archaeological, architectural and landscape history of the British Isles. Membership is open to all with an interest in these areas.\n\nOne of the Institute's principal activities is the publication of the \"Archaeological Journal\", an annual peer-reviewed journal containing reports of archaeological and architectural survey and fieldwork on sites and monuments of all periods, and syntheses and overviews of similar work throughout the British Isles. It also hosts lectures and seminars, and both sponsors and participates in field trips to archaeological sites and landscapes. It works in cooperation with other archaeological bodies and societies. A programme of monthly lectures is held from October to May at Burlington House, Piccadilly, London.\n\nThe following have served as presidents of the Institute:\n"}
{"id": "46739532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46739532", "title": "Slava Gerovitch", "text": "Slava Gerovitch\n\nVyacheslav (Slava) Alexandrovich Gerovitch (; born 1963) is an American historian of science of Russian origin, considered a leading scholar on Soviet space program history in the US.\nIn his work, Dr. Gerovitch emphasizes the influence of underlying cultural processes on science progress. For example, he introduced the term \"cyberspeak\", that is a newspeak of cybernetics, i.e., \"the language we use to talk about that computer\" that was a must in Soviet Union to survive in science. In his research, Gerovitch demonstrates how the progress of technology (e.g., aeronautics in Soviet Union) fits into the surrounding reality, culture and politics.\n\nSlava Gerovitch is an author of more than 50 of peer reviewed journal publications, translations and book chapters on history of technology and science, including mathematics, cybernetics and aeronautics that were highly acknowledged by the experts in the field.\n\nIn 2010, together with Pavel Etingof he co-founded Program for Research In Mathematics, Engineering and Science (PRIMES), the MIT Program for Research in Mathematics, Engineering and Science for High School Students, and has since served as its Program Director. Since 2012 Dr. Gerovitch has served as program director for the Math Department's RSI and SPUR summer programs.\n\nIn addition to writing on the history of scientific theories, Slava Gerovitch is writing poetry in English and Russian. His lyric poetry contains allusions to the works of Homer, Dante, Shakespeare, Pushkin, Trakl, Pasternak, Mandelshtam, Nabokov, Brodsky, and Okudzhava.\n\nDr. Gerovitch was born in Moscow, Russia. He received his M.S. in applied mathematics from the Oil and Gas Institute in Moscow, Ph.D. in philosophy of science from the in 1992 with thesis \"The Dynamics of Research Programs in the Artificial Intelligence Field.\", and Ph.D. in history and social study of science from MIT's Science, Technology and Society Program in 1999 under Loren Graham with thesis \"Speaking Cybernetically: The Soviet Remaking of an American Science\". In 2001 - 2006 Slava Gerovitch was a Dibner/Sloan Postdoctoral Researcher and then a Research Associate at the Dibner Institute for the History of Science and Technology at MIT.\nDr. Gerovitch has been lecturing in MIT since 1999. His most recent class is Cultural History of Mathematics. His research interests include history of mathematics, cybernetics, and computing, space history and policy, history of Russian and Soviet science and technology, history and memory, and rhetoric and science.\n\nHis book, From Newspeak to Cyberspeak: A History of Soviet Cybernetic, received the honorable mention for the Wayne S. Vucinich Book Prize for an outstanding monograph in Russian studies. According to the MIT Press release, 2002 David Holloway, Raymond A. Spruance Professor of International History, Stanford University called it \"An exceptionally lively and interesting book. This is by far the best-informed and most insightful account of cybernetics in the Soviet Union\". The British Journal for the History of Science describes that \"the book offers useful and stimulating insight into this most American of technology\"\n\nDr. Gerovitch's most recent books are Voices of the Soviet Space Program: Cosmonauts, Soldiers, and Engineers Who Took the USSR into Space and Soviet Space Mythologies: Public Images, Private Memories, and the Making of a Cultural Identity An independent review called the former book a \"wonderful, well edited, and a valuable addition to the all-too-small collection of reminiscences and memoirs\" of people associated with the Soviet space program.\n\nBooks\n\n"}
{"id": "32263991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32263991", "title": "Szarvas inscription", "text": "Szarvas inscription\n\nThe Szarvas inscription refers to the inscription on a bone needle case found near Szarvas in southeastern Hungary and dating from the second half of the 8th century, the \"Late Avar\" period (700-791).\n\nThe Hungarian archeologist, historian and linguist Gábor Vékony named the script used on the needle case as \"Kárpát-medencei rovásírás\" (\"Carpathian Basin Rovas script\"). He often used this term in his book, \"A székely írás emlékei, kapcsolatai, története\", e.g. in the chapter \"A kárpát-medencei rovásábécé korabeli feljegyzése\" (\"The contemporary record of the Carpathian Basin Rovas alphabet\").\n\nVékony analysed the similarities and the differences between the Old Hungarian and the Carpathian Basin scripts on page 154 of his book. On page 232, Vékony wrote: \"- Aethicus Ister jelei azonosak az egykori Kárpát-medencei rovásírás jeleivel.\" (\"The symbols of Aethicus Ister are identical to the symbols of the quondam Carpathian Basin script\").\n\nVékony also writes : \"E jel a Szarvason azonosított Kárpát-medencei f alig torzult megfelelője...\" (\"This symbol is identical to the Carpathian Basin 'f' identified in Szarvas\". (referring to the bone needle case found in Szarvas)\n\nIn page 233, Vékony writes: \"Erre utalhat az is, hogy ez a betűalak levezethető egy párthus alep formából. Feltehető tehát ennek a jelnek a megléte a Kárpát-medencei rovásírásban is (a székelybe is innen származhatott).\" (\"This could imply also that this glyph can be derived from the Parthian Aleph form. Consequently, the existence of this symbol can be supposed in the Carpathian Basin script as well (it could originate from this to the Székely).\" Here the 'Szekely' refers to the \"Szekely-Hungarian Rovas\" script also known as Old Hungarian script. Vékony's writing suggests a proposal that a Carpathian Basin Rovas script may be one of the ancestors of the Szekely-Hungarian Rovas script.\n\nGábor Vékony's transcription was improved by linguist Erzsébet Zelliger. The last character of the fourth row of the inscription was reconstructed by Vékony. The edges of the bone needle case are worn, and the top and bottom edges for part of the characters are not clearly visible.\n\nThe following transcription using the International Phonetic Alphabet is based on Vékony's original transcription. Superscript segments and those in brackets are reconstructed.\n\nIn the inscription, the third symbol of the third row (from left) could be considered a descendant of the ideograms in Turkic languages. However, their possible relationship needs further evidence.\n\nVékony had read the Szarvas transcription as Hungarian, thus proposing it as evidence that the Hungarian-speaking people had appeared in the region by the 7th century. There are several critics of Vékony's theories and translations, most notably the Hungarian linguist and historian, András Róna-Tas. The debates were summarized by István Riba in 1999 and 2000: \"many find themselves unable to accept Vékony's theory\".\n\nThe key point of the critics has been that in traditional Hungarian scholarship, the existence of the Hungarian-speaking population dates from 896 (when the Magyars took over the Carpathian Basin ), while the Szarvas needle case dates from the 8th century. Consequently, either the Szarvas inscription is not in Hungarian or Hungarians were in the Carpathian Basin much earlier than the late 9th century. Róna-Tas attempted to read the Szarvas relic in Turkic instead of Hungarian, but wrote that his transcription needed further improvement. The issue remains an open question amongst Hungarian scholars.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15947778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15947778", "title": "The Company of Chivalry", "text": "The Company of Chivalry\n\nThe Company of Chivalry is a living history group portraying a military company in the age of Edward III (13 November 1312 – 21 June 1377), under the command of Sir Thomas Hungerford (c. 1330 – 3 December 1397), a vassal of John of Gaunt, 1st Duke of Lancaster (March 6, 1340 – February 3, 1399).\n\nThe group performs at medieval reenactment events; with civilian living history and military combat display aspects. The Company of Chivalry is known for its vivid display of daily life in a medieval camp especially in the Castles of Wales for Cadw. The Group has the only fully trained Medieval Siege Engine Crew in the United Kingdom, and regularly displays the use of four types of siege engine at Caerphilly Castle in South Wales.\n\nThe society has set its effective date as 1370, during the Hundred Years War at a time when the English were ascendant against the armies of France. Within the society, the military aspect consists of soldiers who are primarily made up of billmen with a gunner in charge of a small black powder cannon, commanded by armoured knights.\n\nThere is not a single correct spelling for the name of the company; the group usually uses “The Company of Chivalry” or the more Archaeic “Ye Compaynye of Cheualrye”\n\nThe Company of Chivalry was formed in 1988 by a group of people with a love for medieval England. Over the years they have developed a system of operating that has caused them to evolve from a small group to a well structured society of over 50 active members. The aim of the society is to recreate the daily life, culture and technology of English society in the Plantagenet period of the late fourteenth century.\n\nThere are around seventy five people involved with the group and about fifty of them are considered active. The active members live in the United Kingdom; the General Membership is mostly drawn from the West Country (Somerset, Wiltshire, Devon, Gloucestershire), and from Warwickshire. The society actively recruits and welcomes enquiries for membership and events from all over the UK and Europe, the society is happy to accept members with or without prior experience; and welcomes families to join.\n\nThe Company of Chivalry primarily works with Cadw and English Heritage, and some privately owned properties such as Pembroke Caste; and carries out living history events in close cooperation with them. The Group usually carries out between twelve and fifteen events each year/season between Easter and September, in the UK. The Society has developed strong links with Compagnia di Porta Giovia an Italian Reenactment Society Based in Milano, Italy, and travels to Morimondo, Italy every year to participate in a reenactment of The Battle of Casorate (1352) between Carlo IV of Bohemia and the Duke Visconti of Milano. The Society also attends private events.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12013519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12013519", "title": "The Greatness That Was Babylon", "text": "The Greatness That Was Babylon\n\nThe Greatness That Was Babylon (1968) is a book by Assyriologist H. W. F. Saggs. It describes the ancient Babylonians before and during the ancient Assyrian Empire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28398027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28398027", "title": "W3af", "text": "W3af\n\nw3af (\"web application attack and audit framework\") is an open-source web application security scanner. The project provides a vulnerability scanner and exploitation tool for Web applications. It provides information about security vulnerabilities for use in penetration testing engagements. The scanner offers a graphical user interface and a command-line interface.\n\nw3af is divided into two main parts, the core and the plug-ins. The core coordinates the process and provides features that are consumed by the plug-ins, which find the vulnerabilities and exploit them. The plug-ins are connected and share information with each other using a knowledge base.\n\nPlug-ins can be categorized as Discovery, Audit, Grep, Attack, Output, Mangle, Evasion or Bruteforce.\n\nw3af was started by Andres Riancho in March 2007, after many years of development by the community. In July 2010, w3af announced its sponsorship and partnership with Rapid7. With Rapid7's sponsorship the project will be able to increase its development speed and keep growing in terms of users and contributors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5761174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5761174", "title": "Yeghishe", "text": "Yeghishe\n\nYeghishe (, , AD 410 – 475; anglicized as \"Eliseus\", spelled alternatively \"Yeghisheh\", \"Yeghishé\", Eghishe or Ełišē) was an Armenian historian from the time of late antiquity. He was the author of a history documenting the successful revolt of the Armenians in the fifth century against the rule and religion of the Sassanid Persians.\n\nAccording to ancient and medieval sources that have trickled down to historians, Yeghishe was one of the younger pupils of Sahak Partev and Mesrop Mashtots, the inventor of the Armenian Alphabet. In 434, he, along with several other students, were sent to Alexandria to study Greek, Syriac and the liberal arts. He returned to Armenia in 441 and entered into military service, serving as a soldier or secretary to the \"Sparapet\" Vardan Mamikonian. He took part in the war of religious independence (449-451) against the Persian King, Yazdegerd II.\n\nFollowing their defeat at the battle of Avarayr, he renounced military life, became a hermit and retired to the mountains south of Lake Van (Rshtunik'). In 464-465, he was asked to write the history of the events leading up to and after the battle of Avarayr by a priest named David Mamikonian. Following his death, his remains were removed and taken to the Surb Astvatsatsin Monastery, located along Lake Van's shoreline. All ancient authorities speak of Yeghishe as a \"vardapet\" (church doctor). \n\nBeginning with Babgen Guleserian in 1909 and Father Nerses Akinian, a member of the Mkhitarian Congregation, in the 1930s, the dating of Yeghishe's work was cast into doubt and moved a century or two forward. One point from their argument was predicated on the assumption that the Armenian translation of Philo's works, which Yeghishe uses, was not made until around 600 AD. However, the translation of Philo's works had taken place during the early \"Hellenizing\" period of the Golden Age of Armenian literature (the fifth century AD). Scholars argue that neither the dating of the Hellenizing phase nor the presence of Hellenizing vocabulary are necessarily dependent on Yeghishe’s dating. Furthermore, there are no verbal literal parallels between the two authors, since Yeghishe directly translated Philo's work from its original Greek into Armenian.\n\nAnother argument that was made to support the later dating was the assertion that, given the parallels, Yeghishe's \"History of Vardan\" is simply an adaptation of the late fifth century Armenian historian Ghazar Parpetsi's \"History of Armenia\". Ghazar, however, dispassionately and analytically recounts the history of Armenia from the late fourth century to his own times, the battle of Avarayr merely figuring as one episode among many in his work. Yeghishe's goal, on the other hand, was to immortalize the \"heavenly valor\" of the Armenians and \"provide comfort to friends, hope to the hopeful, and encouragement to the brave.\" As opposed to Ghazar, Yeghishe is able to give the individual names of fortresses and demonstrates an expert knowledge in the military tactics used by the Armenians and the Persians during the battle, indicating that he was \"standing closer to the events.\" His understanding of the customs of Zoroastrianism and the Zurvanite doctrine is also far more detailed and superior than Ghazar's. Yeghishe's complete failure to mention the Council of Chalcedon, the theological conclusions of which led to the complete breakdown of relations between the Greek Orthodox and Armenian Apostolic Churches following the 506 Council of Dvin, has also led scholars to reject the later dating.\n\nYeghishe’s most famous work is the \"History of Vardan and the Armenian War [written] at the request of David Mamikonian\", which he calls a \"Hishatakaran\" (\"Յիշատակարան\", a \"Memorial\" or \"Recollection\", rather than a standard history). In this he recounts the struggle of the Armenians, in union with the Iberians and the Caucasian Albanians, for their common faith, against the Persians (449-451). Both sides saw religion as a badge of national identity; the Armenians were determined to retain Christianity, while the Persians attempted to force a reintroduction of Zoroastrianism. In his own words, Yeghishe wrote the work \"in order to reprove his sins, so that everyone hears and knows they may cast curses on him and not lust after his deeds.\" The work is considered one of the masterpieces of classical Armenian literature and is almost entirely free from Greek words and expressions.\n\nA number of other works also exist by Eliseus. There is an \"Exhortation to the monks\"; \"On the transfiguration\", a \"Homily on the Passion of the Lord\". The \"Questions and Answers on Genesis\" is probably not genuine.\n\nThe original text of Yeghishe's work, like all others written during this period, does not exist (all currently extant Armenian manuscripts date to the tenth century or later). The oldest surviving manuscript of his \"History of Vardan\" dates to 1174. \n\nAn excellent edition of it was published at Venice in 1826 by the Mechitarists of San Lazzaro. One of the manuscripts on which it is based purports to be a faithful copy of another manuscript dated to 616. The text of that edition was further improved in subsequent editions at the same place (1828, 1838, 1859, and 1864). Among other editions of value are those of Theodosia in Crimea (Ukraine), 1861, and of Jerusalem, 1865. Yeghishe is also the author of a commentary on Joshua and Judges, an explanation of the Our Father, a letter to the Armenian monks, etc., all found in the Venice editions of the \"History of Vartan\". A landmark study and critical edition of the text was prepared by philologist Yervand Ter-Minassian in 1957.\n\nThere are two English translations: an incomplete 1830 translation and a modern translation by Robert W. Thomson (1982). There is an old French translation (1869). There is also one in Italian by G. Cappelletti (Venice, 1840).\n\nIn addition to the seven chapters mentioned by Yeghishe himself in his introductory remarks, all the editions contain an eighth chapter referring to the so-called Leontine martyrs and others. The authenticity of that chapter has been called into question. It has been also remarked that in all the manuscripts the fifth chapter is missing, while in the editions the original sixth chapter is cut in two so as to make up for the missing chapter. \n"}
