{"id": "33913872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33913872", "title": "Acesur", "text": "Acesur\n\nAcesur is a referent company within the olive oil sector in Spain, with 100% Spanish capital share and at the top five in the international framework. Its activity revolves around production, refining, bottling, marketing and exportation of olive oil and vegetable oil as well as olives, vinegars, sauces, mayonnaises and condiments. It owns many renowned brands such as La Espaṅola, Coosur and Al Amir. Acesur has also been awarded with many important prizes such as the Aster award to the Company’s labor or to the best Company.\n\nAcesur was founded in 1840 and nowadays, more than 600 employees are distributed among its main facilities in Dos Hermanas, La Roda de Andalucia (Sevilla), Tarancón (Cuenca), Madrid, Mora de Toledo (Toledo), Vilches, Puente del Obispo and Jabalquinto (Jaén). It exports to more than 80 countries worldwide. Exportation entails more than 35% of the Company’s turnover. Despite the more than 20 brands Acesur offers to fit in each and every market, the star ones are “La Española” and “Coosur”. Acesur also created its own division of renewable energies, ENERSUR, with three main branches: Biomass, Electric Cogeneration and biodiesel. In 2010, the President of the company endowed Acesur with the Juan Ramón Guillen Foundation as part of the company’s strategies in terms of social responsibility. This foundation focuses on the promotion and boosting of the rural environment and particularly, of the olive fields. The Foundation’s main aim is to declare the olive field as a heritage of humanity.\n\n\n\nAcesur spreads its facilities at different places within the national and international geography.\n\nHere below are some of the most important prizes awarded to Acesur:\n\n"}
{"id": "8329836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8329836", "title": "Agricultural communication", "text": "Agricultural communication\n\nAgricultural communication (or agricultural communications) is a field that focuses on communication about agriculture-related information among agricultural stakeholders and between agricultural and non-agricultural stakeholders. Agriculture is broadly defined in this discipline to include not only farming, but also food, fiber (e.g., cotton), animals, rural issues, and natural resources. Agricultural communication is done formally and informally by agricultural extension and is considered related to science communication. However, it has evolved into its own professional field.\n\nBy definition, agricultural communicators are science communicators that deal exclusively with the diverse, applied science and business that is agriculture. An agricultural communicator is \"expected to bring with him or her a level of specialized knowledge in the agricultural field that typically is not required of the mass communicator\". Agricultural communication also addresses all subject areas related to the complex enterprises of food, feed, fiber, renewable energy, natural resource management, rural development and others, locally to globally. Furthermore, it spans all participants, from scientists to consumers - and all stages of those enterprises, from agricultural research and production to processing, marketing, consumption, nutrition and health.\n\nA growing market for agricultural journalists and broadcasters led to the establishment of agricultural journalism and agricultural communication academic disciplines.\n\nThe job market for agricultural communicators includes:\n\nThe academic field originated from communication courses that taught students in the agricultural sciences how to communicate. Originally, agricultural journalists were needed to report farm news for a much larger agricultural and rural audience. As people moved from the farm to cities and suburbs, a much greater proportion of the population had less direct knowledge and experience regarding agriculture. While a need still exists for agricultural journalists, an equal, if not greater need exists for agricultural communicators who can act as liaisons between an industry with deeply rooted traditions and values and a public with little to no understanding of how agriculture operates and why it is the way it is.\n\nThe key journal in the field is the Journal of Applied Communications. Researchers have focused on a variety of areas examining consumer attitudes toward agricultural products and practices including genetic engineering and genetically modified food, natural and organic food and production, and food-related risks. Another area of research has been media coverage of agriculture and agricultural issues. Topics have included media coverage of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (mad cow disease), YouTube videos of California Proposition 2 (2008), and television news coverage of food safety scares.\n\nThe Agricultural Communications Documentation Center, maintained by the University of Illinois, compiles research and articles related to agriculture and communications as well.\n\nThere is a wide variety of throughout the world. Radio programmes are frequently used for agricultural communication and Farm Radio International is a leading organization in providing programming to developing countries.\n\nSeveral colleges offer formal education at the undergraduate and graduate levels in the field of agricultural communication. What follows is a list with links directly to the programs.\n\nTheoretically speaking, agricultural communication is an applied theoretical field. The academic curriculum and scholarly endeavors typically stay within the context of agriculture, natural resources, and occasionally, the life sciences. It examines communication and human dimension issues as they relate to a variety of issues in agriculture and natural resources. Agricultural journalism is not always differentiated from agricultural communications in research. One could argue that when research focuses on media coverage of agricultural issues or when it examines issues within agricultural journalism specifically (i.e., what influences editors of agriculture magazines to publish risk information), then it is more within the realm of agricultural journalism. Journalism is often seen as a subset of communication that is supposed to be fair and balanced like traditional journalism, whereas the broader field of agricultural communication could potentially be viewed as advocacy communication.\n\nAgricultural communicators are expected to have a certain amount of knowledge and familiarity with agriculture. One could also add to that definition and say the communicator also brings with him or her an appreciation, or even affection, for the agriculture industry. While this is also probably true of agricultural journalists, they at least need to be cognizant of their potential bias to ensure they ask critical questions and present unbiased information. Agricultural journalists are trained like traditional journalists, but bring with them an understanding of agricultural systems and science either through experience and/or academic training.\n"}
{"id": "6510180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6510180", "title": "Amastia", "text": "Amastia\n\nAmastia refers to a condition where breast tissue, nipple, and areola is absent, either congenitally or iatrogenically. Amastia in girls can be treated with augmentation mammoplasty.\n\nAmastia differs from amazia (which involves only the absence of breast tissue; the nipple and areola remain present), although the two conditions are often (erroneously) thought to be identical. The terms \"amastia\" and \"amazia\" are thus often used interchangeably, even though the two conditions are medically different.\n"}
{"id": "45838854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45838854", "title": "Auditory arrhythmia", "text": "Auditory arrhythmia\n\nAuditory arrhythmia is the inability to rhythmically perform music, to keep time, and to replicate musical or rhythmic patterns. It has been caused by damage to the cerebrum or rewiring of the brain.\n\nAn individual with this condition has an especially difficult time maintaining a steady beat, and even has difficulty following along to a steady rhythm. Before it was a known disorder, it was thought that these individuals were just severely uncoordinated, and therefore were unable to follow along with the music. It has been discovered recently that problems with rhythm in Schizophrenia, Parkinson's, and Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder are also found to have a correlation to rhythm deficiencies.\n\nThe cerebellum houses the center for fine motor skills. These are needed in order to play the instrument.\n\nThe temporal lobe and the frontal lobe are necessary for listening and recalling different musical aspects from lyrics, reading the music, and performing.\n\nMemory centers are primarily located in the hippocampus, and the process of listening to music originates there.\n\nNeuroplasticity allows the brain to grow and change, especially in the auditory and motor cortex. Listening and playing music helps both of these areas of the brain to develop more, which was found to be correlated to having an improves auditory imagery in many performers in a study conducted at Utrecht University in the Netherlands.\n\nAuditory arrhythmia can also be confused with something called beat deafness. Beat deafness is a form of congenital amusia, which is a person's inability to move in time to the music, or feel a musical rhythm. It is believed by researchers that beat deafness stems from a connection problem between the brain's auditory cortex and inferior frontal lobe. A postdoctoral researcher with the International Laboratory for Brain, Music, and Sound Research at the University of Montreal studied a case where a man could not feel a rhythm in any sense. Not only did he have difficulty dancing, but he was unable to tap his foot or snap his fingers along with the beat of the music. The major difference between beat deafness and auditory arrhythmia, however, is that beat deafness is most likely something you are born with, whereas the arrhythmia most likely comes from damage, which was the case in the research done on \"Mathieu,\" the first known case of beat-deafness. In another case, a former musician known as H.J. suffered damage from a temporoparietal infarct, which is an area of dead tissue due to lack of adequate blood supply. The infarct was believed to have been caused by a problem during a coronary angiography, which is a test to show the insides of an individual's coronary arteries. H.J. suffered difficulties with creating a steady beat, an inability to distinguish between different sets of rhythms, and also experienced difficulties when playing his instruments.\n\nResearch was conducted on birds such as the Zebra Finch because this species has parallels to humans' vocal learning patterns and neurological structures. Adult zebra finches were placed in similar conditions, all exposed to nine rhythmic and nine arrhythmic songs for 30 second increments. After the stimulus was presented, the brains were studied for areas of high ZENK concentration, ZENK being an immunohistochemical used to detect neural activation. It was found in the finches that those exposed to the arrhythmic music had much higher levels of the ZENK gene, and it has been discovered that there is a correlation with humans having higher brain activity in these locations with arrhythmic functioning. Gaining an understanding of how to change the deficiencies in these animals can help lead to changes in the future for humans with auditory arrhythmia and other serious psychiatric disorders.\n\nThose diagnosed with autism tend to have many difficulties processing auditory stimuli. For example, they most often endure language and speech delays, hyperacusis, have difficulties communicating in large social groups, and may experience difficulties hearing certain voices in a noisy environment. These qualities make quality of life difficult, by inhibiting their ability to fully participate in social and educational circumstances in various parts of their lives. As shown in research published in the International Journal of Psychophysiology, efferent pathways throughout the brain help to control various functions throughout the body. For example, in those with autism, pathways running through to the middle ear muscles make it difficult for the person to focus on a single voice when there is a lot of background noise. Raising eyelids was also found to hinder the stapedius muscle by tensing it, which in turn makes it difficult for these individuals to hear other talking when there is background noise present. The laryngeal and pharyngeal muscles located in the throat make prosody and intonation difficult to understand for people with autism. During research, tasks and tests were conducted to see if there is a correlation between cardiac rhythms, respiratory sinus arrhythmias, and auditory processing, or auditory arrhythmia. Because these symptoms tend to go hand in hand, researchers were looking to see if there was a possibility of improving auditory processing. If researchers learn how to effectively improve auditory sensations in people diagnose with autism, then there is a possibility that they can then begin finding the improvement for those only suffering from auditory arrhythmia.\n\nThe Easter Seals Metropolitan Chicago Therapeutic School and Center for Autism Research has conducted studies on auditory processing in individuals with autism. The International Laboratory for Brain, Music, and Sound Research at the University of Montreal has found that beat and tone deafness are likely genetic, and believe that it is because of a miswiring between the auditory cortex and inferior frontal cortex. They were also major researchers on Mathieu's case of beat deafness. Studies conducted at Utrecht University in the Netherlands show that there is an association with an improves ability for auditory imagery and music. McGill University also studied Mathieu's case, along with another individual known as Marjorie. The studies conducted show that true beat deafness is an extremely rare disorder, because out of all the individuals who applied thinking they were beat deaf, Marjorie and Mathieu were the only two. H.J.'s case has been studied in Victoria, Australia at the University of Melbourne and La Trobe University. The data collected caused researchers to believe that the right temporal auditory cortex plays a large role in an individual's ability to maintain a steady rhythm, and has provided a platform for future neuropsychological research.\n"}
{"id": "44267271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44267271", "title": "Blu eCigs", "text": "Blu eCigs\n\nblu is an electronic cigarette brand owned by tobacco giant Imperial Brands. The brand sells its products in the United States, the United Kingdom, France and Italy.\n\nBlu was founded in 2009 by Scott Coffman in Charlotte, NC.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "36354708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36354708", "title": "Bon Secours DePaul Medical Center", "text": "Bon Secours DePaul Medical Center\n\nBon Secours DePaul Medical Center is a historical, general medical and surgical hospital located in Norfolk, Virginia and affiliated with Bon Secours Health System (USA).\n\nFounded in 1855, as the Hospital of St. Vincent de Paul, Depaul was Norfolk's first civilian and public hospital. The hospital was originally located on Church and Wood St. in the downtown Norfolk in the home of the late Miss Ann Plume Behan Herron. When Herron died of yellow fever in 1855, being a wealthy patron, she willed the house to the sisters for the purpose of founding a hospital. The Hospital of St. Vincent DePaul was incorporated in 1856 by eight Daughters of Charity during the yellow fever epidemic. The Sisters of the Daughters of Charity came to Norfolk in 1839 to run St. Mary's Orphan Asylum and care for the sick and dying during the yellow fever epidemic in Norfolk.\n\nStarting with just eight rooms, a clinic for the poor was added in 1892, and a nursing school began in 1893. In 1899, a fire nearly destroyed the hospital that had grown to 150 rooms, but it was rebuilt and enlarged in 1901.\n\nIn 1944 the hospital was renamed Depaul Hospital and moved to its present location at Kingsley Lane and Granby St. in the city of Norfolk, Virginia. After, the hospital moved the basement and annexes of the old hospital, and housed classes for the Norfolk Division of the Virginia State College (now Norfolk State University) until 1958. Depaul is the oldest Catholic public hospital in Virginia.\n\nIn 1996, the Sisters of Bon Secours extended the Daughters of Charity ministry by assuming the sponsorship for DePaul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42855052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42855052", "title": "Canadian Registered Safety Professional", "text": "Canadian Registered Safety Professional\n\nThe Canadian Registered Safety Professional (CRSP)/ Professionnel en sécurité agréé du Canada (PSAC) is a certification offered by the Board of Canadian Registered Safety Professionals for an Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) professional. The CRSP/PSAC is accredited in Canada to ISO 17024 by the Standards Council of Canada.\n\nA CRSP applies safety knowledge to develop systems that will manage control over hazards and exposures detrimental to people, equipment, material and the environment. A CRSP follows the principles of loss control, accident prevention and environmental protection through their daily activities.\n\nTo requirements to become a CRSP/PSAC are:\n\n\nThe CRSPEX is a criterion-referenced examination which tests whether qualified examination candidates have demonstrated a minimum standard of practice. The examination is a closed book, 3½ -hour multiple choice examination delivered by computer-based testing (CBT) at proctored examination centres. Assessment Strategies Inc. (ASI) is the BCRSP’s examination consultants. The examination is developed on computer based testing through Kryterion‘s test centre network. The CRSP Examination Blueprint was developed to guide those involved in the development of the CRSPEX and to provide the public (e.g., examinees, educators, administrators) with practical information about the examination.\n\nAfter obtaining the CRSP/PSAC certification, there is a mandatory certification maintenance program (CMP)and renewal requirement in order to maintain certification with the Board of Canadian Registered Safety Professionals (BCRSP).\n\nThe Governing Board authorizes the use of the terms “Canadian Registered Safety Professional (CRSP)/Professionnel en sécurité agréé du Canada (PSAC) by certificants as long as they have a current and valid certificate. The corporate logo, Canadian Registered Safety Professional (CRSP) and CRSP PSAC are registered with Industry Canada and its use is prohibited except on printed or symbolic items provided by the Board or its designated suppliers.\n\nThe Board of Canadian Registered Safety Professionals (BCRSP) provides certification of occupational health and safety professionals in Canada and has an established Code of Ethics. The BCRSP has certified over 5000 individuals since its incorporation in 1976.\n\nThe BCRSP is a public interest, not-for-profit, ISO 17024 accredited and ISO 9001 certified organization. The BCRSP grants the ‘’’Canadian Registered Safety Professional (CRSP)/Professionnel en sécurité agréé du Canada (PSAC) ‘’’designation to individuals who successfully complete the certification process through application assessment, interview and examination.\n\nThe BCRSP has a membership with the Canadian Network of National Associations of Regulators (CNNAR).\n\nThe Canadian Society of Safety Engineering’s Education & Research Committee reported a need for a generalist certification for Occupational Health and Safety (OH&S) practitioners. In November 1974, a steering committee was formed to implement recommendations and establish the first Board of Governors. A meeting was held March 3, 1975 and the proposed name was Canadian Registered Safety Professional. Consumer and Corporate Affairs issued a Letters Patent on February 10, 1976.\n\nBCRSP has Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) with the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (USA) and the Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (UK).\n\nThe MOUs allow either CSPs (USA designation) or CMIOSHs (UK designation) to apply for the CRSP/PSAC certification through a streamlined application process.\n\nThe Certified Safety Professional (CSP) is a certification offered by the Board of Certified Safety Professionals (BCSP). The CSP is accredited in the United States by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies and internationally by the International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical Commission (ISO/IEC 17024) (see ANSI).\n\nThe requirements to become a CSP are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21826111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21826111", "title": "Caregiver stress", "text": "Caregiver stress\n\nCaregiver syndrome or caregiver stress is a condition that strongly manifests exhaustion, anger, rage, or guilt resulting from unrelieved caring for a chronically ill patient. Although it is not listed in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,\" the term is often used by many healthcare professionals. \n\nAlmost 66 million Americans are providing care to those who are ill, aged, and/or disabled for an average of 39.2 hours per week. Over 13 million caregivers provide care for their own children as well. Caregiver syndrome is acute when caring for an individual with behavioral difficulties, such as: fecal incontinence, memory issues, sleep problems, wandering, and aggression. Typical symptoms of the caregiver syndrome include fatigue, insomnia and stomach complaints with the most common symptom being depression. Roughly 70% of caregivers suffer from depression. \n\nThose who are providing care for a friend or family member with a long-term illness undergo what is known as chronic stress. Caregiving has been shown to affect the immune system. It was found that caregivers to Alzheimer's patients were more depressed, and they showed lower life satisfaction than the comparison samples. The caregivers also had higher EBV antibody titres and lower percentages of T cells and T cells. Caregiving has also been shown to have adverse effects on wound repair.\n\nSymptoms include depression, anxiety, and anger. Chronic stress can create medical problems including high blood pressure, diabetes, and a compromised immune system. The impact may reduce the care-giver's life expectancy.\n\nIn severe cases of Alzheimer's, caregivers may also take on the symptoms of the patients whom they are taking care of. An example of this is progressive memory loss. Caregiver syndrome affects people at any age. For example, elderly caregivers are at a 63 percent higher risk of mortality than non-caregivers who are in the same age group. This trend may be due to elevated levels of stress hormones circulating throughout the body. These levels are similar to someone with PTSD. Because caregivers have to be so immersed in their roles, with day/night hours, they often have to neglect their own health. They are experiencing high amounts of stress along with grief since the health of their loved one is declining. Since their roles are changing from a partnership or mother/daughter, mother/son, etc. relationship to a caregiver and patient relationship, caregivers are turning to online forums such as the Alzheimer's Association for support. This role change is difficult for many people to make, causing them to experience anger, resentment, and guilt. It is difficult to provide quality care in this state of stress.\n\nThe health of caregivers should be monitored in various ways. There are tests for measuring the amount of stress on a caregiver.\n\nCaregivers are at risk for adverse effects on their health, due to emotional distress. Even after caregiving has terminated, these stressors can have long-lasting effects on the caregiver's body due to these immune alterations.\n\nSince caregiving can further erode the caregiver's own health, many studies are being done to assess the risks that a caregiver poses when they assume this job and its effects on their immune functioning, endocrine functioning, risk for depression, poor quality of sleep, long-term changes in stress responses, Cardiovascular diseases, an increased risk of infectious disease, and even death. Resentment from the patient is what may lead to the depression and distress typically seen in caregivers. This anxiety and depression can then lead back into the health of the caregiver.\n\nCaregiver syndrome is caused by the overwhelming duty of caring for a disabled or chronically ill person. Caregiver stress is caused by an increased stress hormone level for an extended period of time. Caregivers also suffer the grief of a declining loved one, as causing a depressive exhaustive state, deteriorating emotional and mental health. \"Double-duty caregivers\" are those already working in the healthcare field who feel obligated to also care for their loved ones at home. This over-exhaustion and constant caregiving role can cause an increase in physical and mental health deterioration. It is actually being thought that a part of the stress of being a caregiver is from how they feel about the job. In other words if a caregiver does not like or want to be a caregiver, they will inflict more stress on themselves by accepting the role.\n\nThe American Academy of Geriatric Psychiatrists reports one out of four American families provide care for a family member over the age of 50. By 2030, the U.S. Census Bureau estimates a population of 71 million Americans over 65. In the U.K., over 450,000 dementia patients are cared for at home.\n\nThe American Academy of Family Physicians and the National Center on Caregiving both believe all caregivers should be screened for stress and depression and recommend providing caregivers with their own resources to help them cope.\n\nSince family members most often assume the primary caregiver role, these strains fall upon them. Care for those that are chronically ill is irregular, so there are not many facilities that can provide adequate care. This caregiving role is more commonly assumed by women than men. Since there are some illnesses that create a more intense need for caregiving, the caregiver is responsible for almost every aspect in the patient's life. One of the positive aspects of caregiving for a loved one though is that it can improve their quality of life but when the caregiver is depleted of confidence, the recovery may be fostered.\n\nParents of children with CHD experience psychological distress such as high levels of caregiver stress, anxiety and depression.\n\nCaregiving for military service members who have experienced a traumatic brain injury or PTSD can be very challenging as well. On April 21, 2010, the U.S. Congress passed what is known as the \"Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010\". This act recognizes the importance of caregivers who are caring for Veterans, and established a program of assistance for them with benefits including covering counseling and mental health services under the benefits of Department of Veterans Affairs.\n\nSince this term, \"Caregiver syndrome\" is widely used among physicians, but is not mentioned in the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM) or in medical literature, physicians are not always sure how to approach the issues that arise with this syndrome. Therefore, this is not addressed frequently. In a survey given by the American Academy of Family Physicians, they found that fewer than 50 percent of caregivers were asked by their doctors whether or not they were experiencing caregiver stress. If this was listed in the DSM with an official diagnosis, it could possibly stigmatize those that have it. Many believe it would be beneficial for this to receive a clinical name though, so caregivers would be able to receive the appropriate resources they need. This would encourage health care professionals to develop better strategies for treatment of Caregiver Syndrome, as well as requiring health insurance agencies to pay for appropriate treatment. Some ways to improve this syndrome have been agreed upon by experts and include the following suggestions:\n\nEffective coping strategies such as sleep, exercise and relaxation can help prevent stress. Caregivers fare better when they have active coping skills, such as these coping interventions:\n\nNearly 15 million Americans provide care that is unpaid to a person living with Alzheimer's disease or dementia. Alzheimer's disease and dementia are often used as interchangeable words, but they aren't the same thing. Increasing evidence has shown that changes in the brain occur 15 years prior to when symptoms are first demonstrated in a person with Alzheimer's disease. This is often called a \"family disease\", because the stress associated with watching a loved one decline rapidly in their health affects everyone involved with their care. In order to maintain their own well being, caregivers need to focus on their own needs. They need to take time for their own health, and get the appropriate support that they need such as respite from their care-giving duties. Through training, caregivers can learn how to handle the behaviors that are challenging them, and improve their own communication skills. The most important thing the caregiver can do is keep the person with Alzheimer's safe. Research has shown that caregivers experience lower stress and better health when they learn skills through this caregiving training and participate in support groups. Participating in these groups allows caregivers to care for their family members longer in their homes.\nServices that may be helpful to caregivers include: \n\nThe Resources for Enhancing Alzheimer's Caregiver Health (REACH) Project was created in 1995. This project was designed to enhance family caregiving for those who were taking care of relatives that have Alzheimer's disease and other related dementia (ADRD). This program includes:\n\nThis program was designed specifically for people who are caring for a loved one with Alzheimer's Disease or Dementia at home, and makes it possible for those with dementia to live in the own homes longer by addressing these problems of caregiver health that force the caregiver to move their loved ones to assisted-living facilities. If they can manage the challenges that come along with caregiving better, both will benefit from this. Special one-on-one training is provided for the caregiver, as well as counseling. This allows them to be more effective in their caregiving roles. They receive help directly from dementia care specialists who work with the client on an individual basis to find solutions to problems such as:\n\nCaregiving can actually provide a health advantage as well for some caregivers. Caregivers maintained higher physical performance when compared to non-caregivers. They declined less in tasks than the low-intensity caregivers and non-caregivers such as: walking pace, grip strength, and the speed with which they could rise from a chair. Caregivers also did significantly better on memory tasks than did non-caregivers over a 2-year time frame. Caregivers scored at the level of someone 10 years younger than them, although both groups (caregivers vs. non-caregivers) were both in their eighties.\n\nWhile this role brings with it high costs, high rewards are also there too. This is known as \"Caregiver gain\". These rewards are emotional, psychological, and spiritual such as:\n\nWomen who become caregivers are healthy enough to take on the task, therefore it makes sense that they would be stronger than their non-caregiver counterparts, and remain stronger than them. The demands of caregiving cause caregivers to move around a lot, and stay on their feet. Therefore, exercise can improve both physical health and cognition. The complex thought as required by caregiving can ward off cognitive decline. This includes activities such as: \n\nOther benefits mentioned by caregivers are that it gives their life meaning, and produces pride in their success as a caregiver. They are also able to give back to someone else. It has also been noted that psychological benefit finding can be an important way of dealing with stress. The Perceived Benefits of Caregiving scale includes 11 items with questions such as, \"Has caregiving given more meaning to your life?\" and \"Has caregiving made you feel important?\" There was an alpha coefficient of 0.7 for this scale. These benefits of caregiving have been found to be associated with improved caregiver adaptation to those who are caring for someone with dementia, end of life caregiving, and bereavement. A study done with dementia caregivers showed that finding the benefits in caregiving predicted a better response to a caregiver intervention over a time period of 12 months.\n\n"}
{"id": "12368695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12368695", "title": "Crisscross heart", "text": "Crisscross heart\n\nCrisscross heart is a type of congenital heart defect where the right atrium is closely associated with the left ventricle in space, and the left atrium is closely associated with the right ventricle.\n\nAlthough it is classified as a defect, the criss-cross is more of a spatial anomaly than a functional one, and it is possible for the heart to have relatively normal functioning. The ventricles are rotated either clockwise or counterclockwise resulting in the twisting of their connection. The actual blood flow stream through the ventricles is not interrupted. \n\nIn an anatomically correct heart the right atrium and right ventricle are working together to supply blood to the pulmonary artery, similarly to how the left atrium and the left ventricle work simultaneously to supply blood to the aorta. During the process of the heart contracting and releasing the right atrium and left atrium contract at the same time, while the left ventricle and right ventricle relax. In opposition, when the left atrium and right atrium are relaxed the left ventricle and right ventricle contract pushing blood to either the aorta or pulmonary artery. In an anatomically correct heart the atria are smaller than the ventricles. The ventricles include more muscle in order to push high quantities of blood throughout the body. Normal blood flow throughout the heart begins at the superior vena cava coming from the upper half of the body and the inferior vena cava coming from the lower half of the body. Next blood will be in the right atrium and will flow uninterrupted through the tricuspid valve through to the right ventricle. The blood from the right ventricle should go to the pulmonary artery via the pulmonary valve.The blood from the pulmonary vein enters the left atrium, then flows through the mitral valve to the left ventricle. After the left ventricle is filled with blood the aortic valve opens allowing blood to go through, which the blood then enters the aorta and goes to the rest of the body.\n\nCrisscross heart is a very rare congenital heart defect, and results in many different symptoms, even though the heart still has the ability to perform its major function of pumping blood throughout the body. Individuals who have this disease will experience cyanosis which is a blue tint to the skin because of inadequate blood flow to the body, this symptom will be seen especially around the mouth. Other symptoms include pallor, extreme dyspnea, pulmonary valve stenosis, cardiac murmurs and a deviated ventricular septum. Pallor can be described as a pale color of the skin, and dyspnea is difficulty breathing. Pulmonary valve stenosis is the narrowing of the pulmonary valve which leads to decreased blood flow to the pulmonary artery. Cardiac murmurs are sounds that can be heard when using a stethoscope that make a swooshing noise rather than a normal “lub-dup”. Lastly a deviated ventricular septum is when there is a hole between the ventricle walls resulting in blood between the ventricles flowing freely between each other. \n\nCrisscross heart can be diagnosed by an echocardiogram, angiocardiogram, and a cardiac MRI. To diagnose crisscross heart during embryonic development a sonogram will be used, and it is very important identify the disease prenatally so the child can be treated immediately for better cardiac function in adulthood. Without treatment crisscross heart can be fatal. The treatment is aimed to fix a deviated septum and pulmonary valve stenosis rather than the rotated heart it self. \n"}
{"id": "1897595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1897595", "title": "Dabur", "text": "Dabur\n\nDabur ( Dabur India Ltd.) (Devanagari: डाबर, derived from Daktar Burman) is one of the India's largest Ayurvedic medicine & natural consumer products manufacturer.\n\nDabur demerged its Pharma business in 2003 and hived it off into a separate company, Dabur Pharma Ltd. German company Fresenius SE bought a 73.27% equity stake in Dabur Pharma in June 2008 at Rs 76.50 a share.\n\nDabur's Healthcare Division has over 260 products for treating a range of ailments and body conditions, from common cold to chronic paralysis. Dabur International, a fully owned subsidiary of Dabur India formerly held shares in the UAE based Weikfield International, which it sold in June 2012.\n\nIn the mid-1880s, an Ayurvedic practitioner Dr. S.K. Burman concocted medicines for diseases like cholera and malaria. He went on to set up Dabur India Ltd in 1884 to mass-produce his Ayurvedic formulations. His son, C.L. Burman, set up Dabur's first R&D unit. The current chairman, Dr. Anand Burman, and vice-chairman Amit Burman, are part of the fifth generation of the Burman family. The Burmans were among the first business families in India to separate ownership from management when they handed over the management of the company to professionals in 1998.\n\nThe Sustainable Development Society (Sundesh), a non-profit organisation started by Burman, aims to carry out welfare activities in the spheres of health care, education and other socio-economic activities. Dabur drives its corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives through Sundesh.In the Brand Trust Report 2012, Dabur was ranked 45th among India's most trusted brands and subsequently, according to the Brand Trust Report 2013, Dabur was ranked 65th among India's most trusted brands. In 2014 however, Dabur was ranked 109th among India's most trusted brands according to the Brand Trust Report 2014, a study conducted by Trust Research Advisory, a brand analytics company. But the Brand Trust Report 2015 puts Dabur at 19th place, a notable gainers by 90 positions.\n\nFormer executive director Pradip Burman was on the list of black money account holders on 27 October 2014 when BJP government revealed the names. Dabur rejected the black money charge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4194074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4194074", "title": "Dental notation", "text": "Dental notation\n\nDental professionals, in writing or speech, use several different dental notation systems for associating information with a specific tooth. The three most common systems are the ISO System (ISO 3950, the FDI World Dental Federation notation), Universal Numbering System, and Palmer notation method. The ISO system is used worldwide, and the Universal is used widely in the United States. The ISO System can be easily adapted to computerized charting.\n\nAnother system is used by paleoanthropologists.\n\nA committee of the American Dental Association (ADA) recommended the use of the Palmer notation method in 1947. Since this method required the use of symbols, its use was difficult on keyboards. As a result, the association officially supported the Universal system in 1968. The World Health Organization and the Fédération Dentaire Internationale officially uses the two-digit numbering system of the FDI system. However, in 1996, the ADA adopted the ISO System as an alternative to the Universal System.\n\nThe International Standards Organization Designation System (ISO System) by the World Health Organization notation system is widely used by dental professionals internationally to associate information with a specific tooth. Based on the Fédération Dentaire Internationale (FDI), it is also known as ISO 3950 notation. Thus the ISO System uses a two-digit numbering system in which the first digit represents a tooth's quadrant and the second digit represents the number of the tooth from the midline of the face. For permanent teeth, the upper right teeth begin with the number, \"1\". The upper left teeth begin with the number, \"2\". The lower left teeth begin with the number, \"3\". The lower right teeth begin with the number, \"4\". For primary teeth, the sequence of numbers goes 5, 6, 7, and 8 for the teeth in the upper right, upper left, lower left, and lower right respectively. When speaking about a certain tooth such as the permanent maxillary central incisor, the notation is pronounced “one, one”. Beware of mixing up the teeth in written form such as 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 between the Universal and ISO systems.\n\nFor example: retention of a primary molar tooth in the otherwise regular intact lower right jaw, position 5, would be noted as: 41, 42, 43, 44, 85, 46, 47, 48.\n\nThe Palmer notation is a system used by dentists to associate information with a specific tooth. Although supposedly superseded by the FDI World Dental Federation notation, it overwhelmingly continues to be the preferred method used by dental students and practitioners in the United Kingdom. It was originally termed the \"Zsigmondy system\" after the Hungarian dentist Adolf Zsigmondy who developed the idea in 1861, using a \"Zsigmondy cross\" to record quadrants of tooth positions. Permanent teeth (adult) were numbered 1 to 8, and the child primary dentition (also called deciduous, milk or baby teeth) were depicted with a quadrant grid using Roman numerals I, II, III, IV, V to number the teeth from the midline distally. Palmer changed this to A, B, C, D, E.\n\nThe Palmer notation consists of a symbol (┘└ ┐┌) designating the quadrant of the tooth and a number indicating the position from the midline. Adult teeth are numbered 1 to 8, with primary teeth indicated by a letter A to E. Hence the left and right maxillary central incisor would have the same number, \"1\", but the right one would have the symbol, \"┘\", underneath it, while the left one would have, \"└\".\nAlthough it is termed \"universal numbering system\", it is most commonly used in the United States. It is also called the \"American system\". The uppercase letters \"A\" through \"T\" are used for primary teeth and the numbers 1 - 32 are used for permanent teeth. The tooth designated \"1\" is the maxillary right third molar (\"wisdom tooth\") and the count continues along the upper teeth to the left side. Then the count begins at the mandibular left third molar, designated number 17, and continues along the bottom teeth to the right side. Each tooth has a unique number or letter, allowing for easier use on keyboards.\n\nPaleoanthropologists use a system suitable to other primates as well. The upper teeth are denoted I, I, C, Pm, Pm, M, M, and M. Left or right has to be specified. The lower teeth are I, I, C, Pm, Pm, M, M, and M. The reason the premolars are labeled 3 and 4 is that in earlier primates there were two other premolars between them and the canines.\n\nIn this system, also known as \"alpha-numeric notation\", the four quadrants are designated as follows:\n\nWithin each quadrant, the teeth are numbered as in the Palmer notation: 1-8 for permanent and A-E for deciduous, both starting at the midline. For example, the permanent left maxillary first molar is designated UL6.\n\nTo prevent uncertainty or ambiguity, teeth may be indicated using more than one notation, particularly when referring for an extraction; this makes it less likely for the incorrect tooth to be needlessly extracted. For instance, a dentist may give an instruction to \"extract the 24 (UL4) upper left first premolar tooth.\"\n"}
{"id": "31781437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31781437", "title": "Devaka Fernando", "text": "Devaka Fernando\n\nDevaka Fernando, MBBS, MSc, MD, FRCP, is aSri Lankan physician and academic. He was president of the Osteoporosis Society of Sri Lanka and a professor of medicine at the University of Sri Jayawardanapura.\n\nFernando was educated at Dean Row School in Cheshire, UK, Shore Country Day School in Beverly, Massachusetts and S. Thomas' College, Mt Lavinia, Sri Lanka.\nHe received a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery degree from the Faculty of Medicine, University of Colombo. Fernando received a Doctor of Medicine degree and membership of the Royal College of Physicians, trained in public health at the University of Manchester (Master of Science in Clinical Epidemiology) and trained as a specialist at the Manchester Royal Infirmary.\n\nFernando was a consultant physician in diabetes and the endocrinology department of the Sri Jayawardanapura General Hospital and a senior lecturer in the faculty of medicine at the University of Colombo. He was a professor of medicine in the University of Sri Jayewardenepura faculty of health sciences, coordinated the endocrinology training programme for the board of study in medicine at the University of Colombo's Postgraduate Institute of Medicine from 1998 to 2004, managed the World Diabetes Foundation project in Sri Lanka, was editor and vice-president of the Diabetes Association of Sri Lanka and was the founding director of the Sri Lanka Twin Registry.\nFernando was a charter member of the board of study in medical administration at PGIM Colombo, was involved in the specialist training of doctors in Sri Lanka through the Royal College of Physicians and was connected to efforts to prevent discrimination against diabetes patients. He had a health-policy advisory role on a World Bank project and engaging the media in diabetes care through the Diabetes Forum.\nFernando was secretary in 1995 and 1997, treasurer in 1998 and vice-president in 2000 of the Sri Lanka Medical Association; secretary (1993–1996) and treasurer (1997–1998) of the Ceylon College of Physicians; founding president of the Osteoporosis Society of Sri Lanka (later named Osteoporosis Sri Lanka); from 2000 to 2004, editor (1994–1995) and treasurer (1996–2000) of the Endocrine Society of Sri Lanka; part of a Sri Lanka task force for the eradication of rabies, and charter committee members of the National Stroke Association of Sri Lanka and the for the Brain Research and Neuroscience Centre's advisory panel.\nWhile working in Sri Lanka, Fernando held clinical and research fellowships and senior research fellowships at the University of Manchester, visiting professorships with the University of Newcastle Upon Tyne and the University of Sheffield and an honorary professorship at Sheffield Hallam University; he later emigrated to the United Kingdom.\n\nFernando has been an applicant or co-applicant in grants received from the Wellcome Trust and the World Diabetes Foundation.\n\nHe has received academic honors from:\nWith Victor Hettigoda, Fernando received a presidential award for research. He was made an honorary fellow of the College of General Practitioners of Sri Lanka and a fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in London and Edinburgh and the Ceylon College of Physicians.\n\nFernando chaired the Endocrine and Metabolic Disease Trust, based in Dehiwala-Mount Lavinia, Ratmalana, from 1990 to 2004; helped establish a renal dialysis unit and transit home for patients and families visiting the University of Sri Jayewardenepura faculty of health sciences and its teaching hospital in 1998; set up computer servers linking the John Pease Diabetes Centre in Sutton-in-Ashfield, England and centres in Sri Lanka to aid education in Sri Lanka, and assisted in disaster relief after the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami.\n\nFernando was a school prefect, won awards in rugby and athletics (finished second in the 1973 400m junior national AAA championships), was active in classical, English debating and drama societies and was part of the rugby union Royal-Thomian rivalry on the 1975 S. Thomas' College team coached by Quentin Israel, called the best Thomian team by sports journalist Sharm de Alwis.\n\nHe captained the University of Colombo rugby team, scoring two tries in a victory against Colombo Hockey and Football Club; placed second in the 400m hurdles at the 1976 junior national AAA championships, and represented the Colombo Hockey and Football Club in the 1981 First Division tournament. Fernando has coached rugby teams in Sri Lanka and the UK.\n\nFernando moved to the United Kingdom in 2005, where he has been a consultant endocrinologist, head of the Sherwood Forest Hospitals Foundation Trust's Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology at King's Mill Hospital and a member of the foot-care team, associate medical director for clinical governance and member of a trial steering committee. In collaboration with the Thyroid Association, he has delivered lectures with colleague George Thomson.\nFernando is a board member of the Thanet and Sheffield clinical commissioning groups and a member of the Diabetes Think Tank, a parliamentary advisory group.\n\n"}
{"id": "9781137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9781137", "title": "Disease cluster", "text": "Disease cluster\n\nA disease cluster is an unusually high incidence of a particular disease or disorder occurring in close proximity in terms of both time and geography. Typically, when clusters are recognized, they are reported to public health departments in the local area. If clusters are of sufficient size and importance, they may be re-evaluated as outbreaks. The 1854 cholera outbreak which occurred in London is a classic example of such a cluster.\n\n"}
{"id": "43302417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43302417", "title": "EWater", "text": "EWater\n\neWater is a non-profit organisation established by Australian Federal and State Governments. The role of eWater is to support integrated water resources management in Australia through development and implementation of the national hydrological modelling strategy (NHMS).\n\neWater develops and supports a number of software tools for hydrological modelling. Some tools include Source, MUSIC, Rainfall Runoff Library, Stochastic Climate Library and SedNet.\n\nIn 1992 the CRC for Catchment Hydrology (CRCCH) was formed to produce a decision support system able to predict movement of water, particulates and solutes from land to rivers followed in 1993 by the CRC for Freshwater Ecology (CRCFH).\n\nModel for Urban Stormwater Improvement Conceptualisation (MUSIC) was launched in 2002\nDevelopment of The Invisible Modelling Environment (TIME) enabling development and integration of models, which is used by many tools made by eWater\n\nIn 2004 the Catchment modelling Toolit was released\n\neWater Ltd was established in 2005 and CRCFE and CRCCH were merged and relaunched as eWater CRC\n\neWater CRC ends and eWater Ltd continues as a non-profit organisation\n\nMinister for the Environment Senator Penny Wong announces eWater Source as the new COAG endorsed National Hydrological Platform and in \n2014 the Source Public modelling tool is launched as a free software package\n\nSource, an integrated water resource management modelling tool, developed by eWater Ltd is used to create hydrological models used for integrated planning, management and operations for catchment and river systems, including demands fore water from urban areas, agriculture and the environment\n\nThe package has been used to build river and catchment models in every state of Australia as well as many other countries including India, Pakistan, China and the Mekong River system\n\nThe MDBA has implemented a Source management model of the Murray and Lower Darling River System.\n\nThe Queensland Government is now working with Source in five river basins: the Pioneer, Fitzroy, Condamine-Balonne, Cape, and Flinders and Gilbert. Over 30 earlier catchment Source models were implemented under the Great Barrier Reef Action Plan\n\nNew South Wales is implementing the Namoi River System and Murrimbidgee river system using Source.\n\nVictoria is implementing the Loddon, Campaspe, Broken and Coliban components of a broader northern Victoria Source model centred on the Goulburn River system.\n\nThe Invisible Modelling Environment (TIME) is a software development framework for creating, testing and delivering environmental simulation models. TIME includes support for the representation, management and visualisation of a variety of data types, as well as support for testing, integrating and calibrating simulation models.\n\nTIME provides a framework for spatial and temporal data analysis. TIME has been developed under the sponsorship of eWater CRC and its predecessor CRC for Catchment Hydrology. As well as providing a modelling framework, TIME supports model users with a range of data analysis and management, model processing and visualisation tools.\n\nTIME is a core component of a large range of formal software products, as well as numerous research programs. Currently the TIME code base is incorporated into approximately 23 eWater supported applications.\n\nThe eWater Source products are a major focus of this product range and are extensively used by government and private enterprise in addressing water quantity and quality policy questions. Time is also integrated into a range of CSIRO specific products and projects such as the “Hydrologists Workbench” and the Australian Water Resources Assessment (AWRA) system, a continental water balance monitoring system that is being developed jointly by CSIRO and the Bureau of Meteorology.\n\nThe eWater Toolkit is a source of software tools and information related to the modelling and management of water resources, including water quality tools. It provides a web-based distribution point for hydrological, ecological and catchment management models, databases and other resources.\n\nMUSIC predicts the performance of stormwater quality management systems as an aid to decision-making. It is intended to help organisations plan and design (at a conceptual level) appropriate urban stormwater management systems for their catchments that meet Water Sensitive Urban Design Standards\n\n"}
{"id": "56630459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56630459", "title": "Egyptian Medical Syndicate", "text": "Egyptian Medical Syndicate\n\nThe Egyptian Medical Syndicate is a medical association with more than 230,000 registered members. About 65% of the members work outside Egypt.\n\nEhab el-Taher is the secretary-general.\n"}
{"id": "53758947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53758947", "title": "Emergency sanitation", "text": "Emergency sanitation\n\nEmergency sanitation is the management and technical processes required to provide sanitation in emergency situations. This can include man-made or natural disasters. Emergency sanitation is also required during humanitarian relief operations for refugees and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). \n\nEmergency situations are classified into three phases which are called the \"immediate\", \"short-term\" and \"long-term\" phases. In the immediate phase, the focus is on reducing open defecation. Toilets provided might include very basic latrines, pit latrines, bucket toilets, container-based toilets or chemical toilets. \n\nProviding showers and handwashing facilities is also part of emergency sanitation during all phases. Fecal sludge management becomes a priority during the long-term emergency management phase.\n\nThe term \"Emergency\" is perceived differently by different people and organisations. In a general sense, an emergency may be considered to be a phenomenon originating from a man-made and/or natural disaster which results in a serious, usually sudden threat to the health or well-being of the affected community which relies on external assistance to easily cope up with the situation. \n\nThere are different categories of emergency depending on its time frame, whether it lasts for few weeks, several months or years.\n\nThe number of people who are and will be affected by catastrophes (human crisis and natural disasters), which are increasing in magnitude and frequency, is rapidly increasing. The affected people are subjected to such dangers as temporary homelessness and risks to life and health. \n\nTo address the problem of public health and the spread of dangerous diseases that come as a result of lack of sanitation and open defecation, humanitarian actors focus on the construction of, for example, pit latrines and the implementation of hygiene promotion programmes.\n\nThe supply of drinking water in an urban-setting emergency has been improved by the introduction of standardised, rapid deployment kits. \n\nIn the immediate emergency phase, the focus is on managing open defecation, and toilet technologies might include very basic trench latrines, pit latrines, bucket toilets, container-based toilets, chemical toilets. The short term phase might also involve technologies such as urine-diverting dry toilets, septic tanks, decentralized wastewater systems.\n\nIn urban emergencies, the main focus is usually on a quick rehabilitation and extension of existing services such as sewer-lines and waste-water treatment plants. This can also include the installation of sewerage pumping stations to improve or extend services.\n\nThe emergency response often has to differ greatly based on the setting it takes place.\n\nHome based settings where people choose to stay in or close to their homes (or those of their relatives, neighbours or friends). While this setting offers the quickest way to (self-) recovery, it also poses a high risk of sanitation related impacts due to the common lack of access to outside help and inadequate public-health monitoring.\n\nHost community settings with significant displacement into outside communities (usually urban) with existing but maybe also effected sanitation infrastructure in private homes.\n\nExisting infrastructure in such settings is usually quickly overloaded due to the increase in population density and improvements/repair is often hindered by access- and space-limitations. Intra-community conflicts over the sanitation waste management are thus fairly common.\n\nMass shelter settings where the displaced population is housed in existing but often re-purposed building-complexes such as schools, community centres, places of worship, malls, warehouses and sport stadiums. In some disaster prone countries, dedicated large emergency shelters are build for this purpose.\n\nExisting sanitation facilities are usually inadequate for full-time stay of a high number of people, and the non-emergency management structures are typically unable or unwilling to continue their services. Legal issues over the re-purposing are also fairly common, especially if occupation continues for a longer time.\n\nDue to usually cramped living conditions there is a high risk of conflict and often also cases of sexual violence, both of which often are in some relation to the sanitation facilities. \n\nEmergency settlements (formal or informal) where previously sparsely populated areas are newly occupied by the displaced population in large numbers. Typically these are set up by governments, the UN and humanitarian aid organisations.\n\nDue to the typically short time frame of arrivals and the non-existing infrastructure, these kind of encampments pose maybe the greatest challenge in regards to providing adequate emergency sanitation facilities.\n\nThe provision of sanitation programmes is usually more challenging than water supply as it provides a limited choice of technologies. This is exacerbated by the overwhelming and diverse needs of WASH.\n\nChallenges with excreta disposal in emergencies include:\n\n"}
{"id": "31907173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31907173", "title": "Enterotoxin type B", "text": "Enterotoxin type B\n\nIn the field of molecular biology, enterotoxin type B, also known as Staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB), is an enterotoxin produced by the gram-positive bacteria \"Staphylococcus aureus\". It is a common cause of food poisoning, with severe diarrhea, nausea and intestinal cramping often starting within a few hours of ingestion. Being quite stable, the toxin may remain active even after the contaminating bacteria are killed. It can withstand boiling at 100 °C for a few minutes. Gastroenteritis occurs because SEB is a superantigen, causing the immune system to release a large amount of cytokines that lead to significant inflammation.\n\nAdditionally, this protein is one of the causative agents of toxic shock syndrome.\n\nThe function of this protein is to facilitate the infection of the host organism. It is a virulence factor designed to induce pathogenesis. One of the major virulence exotoxins is the toxic shock syndrome toxin (TSST), which is secreted by the organism upon successful invasion. It causes a major inflammatory response in the host via superantigenic properties, and is the causative agent of toxic shock syndrome. It functions as a superantigen through activation of a significant fraction of T-cells (up to 20%) by cross-linking MHC class II molecules with T-cell receptors. TSST is a multisystem illness with several symptoms such as high fever, hypotension, dizziness, rash and peeling skin.\n\nAll of these toxins share a similar two-domain fold (N and C-terminal domains) with a long alpha-helix in the middle of the molecule, a characteristic beta-barrel known as the \"oligosaccharide/oligonucleotide fold\" at the N-terminal domain and a beta-grasp motif at the C-terminal domain. Each superantigen possesses slightly different binding mode(s) when it interacts with MHC class II molecules or the T-cell receptor.\n\nThe N-terminal domain is also referred to as OB-fold, or in other words the oligonuclucleotide binding fold. This region contains a low-affinity major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC II) site which causes an inflammatory response.\n\nThe N-terminal domain contains regions involved in Major Histocompatibility Complex class II association. It is a five stranded beta barrel that forms an OB fold.\n\nThe beta-grasp domain has some structural similarities to the beta-grasp motif present in immunoglobulin-binding domains, ubiquitin, 2Fe-2 S ferredoxin and translation initiation factor 3 as identified by the SCOP database.\n"}
{"id": "7223499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7223499", "title": "Frozen bovine semen", "text": "Frozen bovine semen\n\nFrozen bovine semen is a method of preserving bovine semen for future artificial insemination, even after the death of the donor.\n\nThe early artificial insemination organizations were largely farmer-owned cooperatives. The first such cooperative in America was organized at Clinton, New Jersey, through efforts of Enos J. Perry, Extension Dairyman, New Brunswick, and began operations May 17, 1938. It began operations with 102 members and 1,050 cows enrolled.\n\nUsing frozen semen for dairy cattle has been done since the 1950s. The oldest semen believed to be in existence was from a sire named Cottonade Emmet, who was a member of the American Breeders Service sire battery in 1952. Semen was collected on Emmet in November 1952 and has been used several times to produce offspring. However, the last time any such offspring was born was in the mid-1980s. Osborndale Ivanhoe, who was probably the most famous Holstein bull of the early semen era, died in November 1963. From time to time calves will still be born from his frozen semen. Ivanhoe was a member of The Atlantic Breeder's Co-op Sire battery. His sons who have had considerable influence include, Penstate Ivanhoe Star, Provin Mtn Ivanhoe Jewel, and Fleetridge Monitor. His grandsons who have dominated the Holstein breed include Carlin-M Ivanhoe Bell, and Round Oak Rag Apple Elevation.\n\nSemen in the early days of artificial insemination was delivered everyday to technicians by bull studs as semen was not frozen at this point. It was not until the addition of glycerol to semen extenders that semen could be frozen. In those early days semen was extended by bulls stud into a type of bottle, or test tube, kept at low temperatures, and delivered to technicians usually everyday. The freezing process was discovered by a man named Polge. It was placed in containers called glass ampules, sealed, frozen in dry ice and alcohol and kept in that type of solution until it was needed for insemination. Later the liquid nitrogen refrigerator was invented by Union Carbide with money given to them by John Rockefeller Prentice, who used it exclusively for his bull stud before a number of years later giving it to the entire artificial insemination (A.I.) industry at no charge or royalty. Liquid nitrogen boils at −195.79 °C (77 K; −320 °F), which allows very little deterioration of bovine semen. The ampules were fastened to a cane which was placed inside the canister. The process of insemination involves transferring the ampule to an water/ice bath. The ampule thaws for several minutes and when opened, the semen is drawn up into a pipette. \n\nOther semen packages that have been tried include the \"Magic Wand\" developed by Badger Breeders Co-op in the mid-1960s. This was a frozen pipette that contained about .75 cc of extended semen. With the use of a connector and adapter which had a syringe or rubber bulb attached it was air thawed or thawed in the cow. The frozen polybulb was another semen package that had some usage. Semen was actually placed in a plastic polybulb and frozen on canes. The polybulb was thawed, sealed end cut, and attached to a pipette. The semen expelled through the pipette. There were several size of ampules used during the early days. The 1cc ampules were used by Curtiss Breeding Service, .75cc ampules were used by Tri-State Breeders Co-op, and the .50cc ampules were almost excursively used by American Breeders Service. The .75 and 1cc ampules were usually attached six to a metal cane. The .50 cc ampules were attached eight per cane.\n\nIn the 1960s a straw package that utilized a plastic straw was invented by the Robert Cassou family business called IMV in France. This straw was made of PVC and had two cotton plugs with powder in between them (the \"factory end\") while the other end was open. Semen was sucked up into the straw and was placed directly onto a comb and semen was expelled to make an airspace. Then the straw was placed directly into a pile of PVC powder that sealed the straw. Then the straw was placed into a water bath for a period of time to plug the end sealed. Then dried with cloth towels and frozen on metal racks. After freezing the straws were placed in 95 °F water and thawed for 60 seconds before being placed into a stainless steel gun. A sheath was placed over the gun and locked into place by an o-ring. Then the cow was inseminated the usual way. \n\nIn the early 1970s an automated machine was invented by IMV. This machine would seal the straws (ultrasonically) one by one. Then several years later a machine that would fill and seal straws three at a time came out. This greatly increased processing times for bull studs. In the mid-2000s a machine that would not only fill three straws at a time but also have the capability to print the desired information on the straw, became available.\n\nBull semen can be collected by using an artificial vagina (AV), electro-ejaculator, or by massaging the ampule of the bull by hand. \n\nThe most desired use is the AV. The AV is made up of a piece of heavy rubber hose about in diameter and up a or more (in some cases less) in length. A small screw cap attachment is fitted or drilled preferably in the middle of the housing. A piece of latex or silicone rubber (usually rough inside, but some cases smooth) then is put through the hose and pulled up at both ends. Another latex or silicone cone shaped attachment is placed on one end of the AV an held by a rubber band. on thee end of the cone a glass or plastic centrifudge tube is attached usually 15ml size). Through the cap attachment water usually around 54°C is filled until the AV is 1/2 full (temperature may vary from bull to bull). This water is between the inside rubber and the inside hose wall of the AV. A small amount of K-Y jelly or Vaseline is placed just inside on the unconed end and then it is smeared with a pipette or greasing stick. Finally in most cases and AV jacket is tied or attached onto the cone end to cover the cone and tube. This will help prevent cold shock to the semen by keeping the cone and tube warm. The collector then goes cautiously to the side of the bull when he is in mount, directs the bull's penis inside the AV by grabbing the sheath directly behind the extended penis (never touching the penis itself). The bull then ejaculates after his penis slides through the AV. The bull should be ejaculating through the AV into the cone of the AV so there is very little chance of temperature shock to the semen. after the bull has dismounted the AV should be held in the upright position so the semen runs into the tube onto the end of the cone. Then the tube is detached and placed upright in a water bath of about 29-32°C.\n\nIn a commercially or Custom Stud a bull is generally brought to a collection area where there are gates or other protection areas set up. In most cases of Dairy Bulls the bull has a halter or rope inserted into his nose ring. This is so he can be led and his handler can be a safe distance away, yet have some control over the animal. In the collection area there usually is a stall or stanchion where a mount animal is tied in. A mount animal can be a steer, a cow, or even another bull. Some bulls can be rather aggressive and have no problems or issues mounting another animal. Others are rather passive and may show little or no interest in mounting. Different scenarios are used to try to entice him to mount. Such scenarios may include a different breed of steer, a different bull, or even a cow. Sometimes a bull may be wary of the individual who is approaching him to collect. In which cases a blindfold may have to be put over his eye in that side. The bull mounts and semen is able to be collected as the bull doesn't worry about what is going on.\n\nA number of bulls are not collected in commercial or stud setups. These bulls may not be good enough to enter active AI service. However the owner may only elect to use him a small amount in his own herd or perhaps a syndicate may want to control the amount of breedings or services to him. In this case the bull may be sent to a custom stud or be collected on farm. The owner may elect to only collect a few hundred to several thousand units (straws) on the bull. In most of the custom studs the semen can be stored and sent out to other breeders. In some cases where there is not a significant population of females in a particular breed, a bull may have a designated supply of semen collected and then be sent to slaughter. However a bank or supply of his semen is kept in storage for many years, still breeding females for many years after he has departed.\n\nWhile many beef bulls are collected in stud a good share are collected on farm or in custom studs. Many of the bulls will be used in the owners' herds during beef breeding season. However they have the genetic merit to be used in many others as well. A beef bull may only be able to service 20 to 30 head via natural service during the breeding season. He will be able to service many more during the breeding season via artificial insemination. If he becomes hurt, disabled, or even dies, he can still sire hundreds or thousands of progeny.\n\n"}
{"id": "25119357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25119357", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Malaysia", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Malaysia\n\nThe first HIV/AIDS case in Malaysia made it debut in 1986 and since has become one of the country's most serious health and development challenges. As of 2016, 99,338 HIV positive men and 12,578 HIV positive women in Malaysia. \n\nMalaysia is ranked seventh highest in adult prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Asia after Thailand, Papua New Guinea, Burma, Cambodia, Vietnam and Indonesia with a 0.45% prevalence rate. According to the United Nations, Malaysia is one of the ten countries which together accounted for over 95% of all new HIV infections in the Asia-Pacific region in 2016.\n\nIn 2015, Malaysia recorded the rate of 10.9 new cases per 100,000 of the population, which is below than the target set by World Health Organization.\n\nMalaysian HIV/AIDS cases have been reported since 1986 by the Ministry of Health. Since then, the national surveillance system had reported a cumulative of 105,189 HIV cases, 21,384 AIDS and 17,096 deaths related to HIV/AIDS giving total reported PLHIV of 88,093 cases or 96% of estimated PLHIV.\n\nMales still make up the majority of HIV cases (89%), but the number of women with positive status of HIV has been increasing. This is shown by the decreasing trend of male:female ratio of 10:1 in 2002 to 4:1 in 2014. 42% of HIV transmission by age group occurred in 30-39 bracket.\n\nBetween January to June 2014, 1,676 cases of HIV and 598 cases of AIDS with 402 deaths were recorded. Out of this new infection, 79.7% are men.\n\nIn 2013, heterosexuals transmission recorded the highest (51%), followed by Injecting Drug User (22%) and Homo/Bisexual transmission (22%). According to the Ministry of Health, in 2016, 70% of HIV transmission are transmitted through heterosexual relationships, mainly from female sex workers to male clients. However, in 2017, 90% of new HIV/AIDS infections were the result of sexual transmissions. Deputy Health Minister Dr Lee Boon Chye said of the 90% sexual transmissions, 51% were men-to-men sexual transmissions while 40% were heterosexual transmissions. \n\nIn October 2018, Malaysia becomes the first country in the Western Pacific region to eliminate mother-to-child transmission of both HIV and syphilis, officially validated by the World Health Organization (WHO). \n\nThe HIV epidemic in Malaysia is concentrated in these key populations;\nSex worker accounts for 0.6% of total reported cases thus far. However, the number of cases reported among sex workers are grossly under reported. In 2014, Integrated Bio-Behavioral Surveillance (IBBS) in female sex workers shows an increase of sex workers living with HIV to 7.3% from 4.2% in 2012.\nAn IBBS done in 2009 found HIV prevalence among the group at 9.3%, and was decreased to 4.8% in 2012. However, in 2014, the IBBS shows an increase of HIV prevalence to 5.6%.\nAt the beginning of the epidemic, injecting drug user (PWID) accounted for 70-80% of all new reported cases. This has started to decline since 2004. In 2011, PWID accounts for 39% of new reported cases. In 2014, 16.3% of the PWID are reported living with HIV.\nIBBS conducted in 2012 shows 7.1% of MSMs is living with HIV. In 2014, the figure has increased to 8.9%.\n\nIn 2001, the Department of Occupational Safety and Health developed a non-compulsory ‘Code of Practice on Prevention and Management of HIV and AIDS’ which supports the creation of a non-judgemental and non-discriminatory work environment. \n\nDuring the 2011 Nineteenth ASEAN Summit, Malaysia together with other ASEAN nations, adopted the \"ASEAN Declaration of Commitment: Getting To Zero New HIV Infections, Zero Discrimination, Zero AIDS-Related Deaths, Bali, Indonesia, 17 November 2011\" to reaffirm their commitment in working towards realizing an ASEAN community with Zero HIV Infections, Zero Discrimination and Zero AIDS-related Deaths.\n\nOn 13 October 2017, the then-Ministry of Human Resources Minister, Datuk Seri Dr Richard Riot Jaem announced that the government wants to draft a new regulation in an effort to eliminate discrimination against people living with HIV or AIDS at the workplace. The ministry plans to legislate the HIV and AIDS in Workplace Policy by 2020. In October 2018, it is reported that the Malaysian AIDS Council (MAC) is currently working with the Ministry of Human Resources on a policy to ensure that people with HIV/AIDS including those receiving treatment are not discriminated when it comes to employment. \n\nThe first line of highly active antiretroviral therapy is provided for free in Malaysia by the Ministry of Health since 2006. However, only 28% of HIV/AIDS patients seek consistent treatment as the awareness among patients to get treatment was still low because they were ashamed to seek treatment and did not know about the various types of treatment provided by the government to help them fight the disease. The government hopes the figure will reach 90% in line with the National Strategic Plan Ending AIDS 2016-2030.\n\nIn September 2018, \"HIV Connect\", a self–paced, online learning platform that is designed for primary care physicians and other healthcare practitioners in Malaysia was launched. The online learning platform is a joint effort between the Malaysian AIDS Foundation (MAF) and the Malaysian Society for HIV Medicine (MASHM) to educate doctors regarding care and management of HIV/AIDS patients. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50338379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50338379", "title": "Health Research Board", "text": "Health Research Board\n\nThe Health Research Board (HRB) is a government agency responsible for funding, co-ordination, and oversight of medical research in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nIn 1986, the Government of Ireland amalgamated the Medical Research Council of Ireland and the Medico-Social Research Board to establish the HRB under the Health (Corporate Bodies) Act 1961 and statutory instrument 279 of 1986. The HRB's original headquarters was at 73 Lower Baggot Street, Dublin 2. In July 2014, the board relocated to Grattan House, 67-72 Lower Mount Street, Dublin 2.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15977302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15977302", "title": "Health in Venezuela", "text": "Health in Venezuela\n\nFrom 1992 to 1993, there was a cholera epidemic in the Orinoco Delta and Venezuela's political leaders were accused of racial profiling of their own indigenous people to deflect blame from the country's institutions, thereby aggravating the epidemic. During the 1990s, the mortality rate was 318 per 100,000 population for diseases of the [cardiac system], 156 for cancers, 634 for external causes (including drowning, self-harm, violence, falls, road accidents etc, 1126 for communicable diseases such as chest infections, syphilis, meningitis, and 654 for certain conditions originating before birth. \n\nSeveral transmissible diseases, including dengue fever, malaria, measles, and tuberculosis, reappeared in Venezuela. In 1999 an estimated 62,000 Venezuelans were living with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS); and in 2001 an estimated 2,000 people died from AIDS. At the end of 2003, the percentage of the population between the ages of 15 to 49 with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/AIDS was 0.7. In 2000, 85% of the urban population and 70% of the rural population had access to improved water. Improved sanitation was available to 71% of the urban population and 48% of the rural population. In August 2001, President Hugo Chávez announced a national campaign to fight the dengue fever epidemic that had infected 24,000 and killed four. Child immunization for measles in 2002 (as a percentage of under 12 months) dropped to 78%, compared with 84% in 1999.\n\nIn August 2014, Venezuela was the only country in Latin America where the incidence of malaria was increasing, allegedly due to illegal mining and in 2013, Venezuela registered the highest number of cases of malaria in the past 50 years, with 300 of 100,000 Venezuelans being infected with the disease. Medical shortages in the country also hampered the treatment of Venezuelans. Shortages of antiretroviral medicines to treat HIV/AIDS affected about 50,000 Venezuelans, potentially causing thousands of Venezuelans with HIV to develop AIDS. Venezuelans also stated that due to shortages of medicines, it was hard to find acetaminophen to help alleviate the newly introduced chikungunya virus, a potentially lethal mosquito-borne disease. In September 2014, Health Minister Nancy Pérez admitted that there were 45,745 cases of dengue fever. There were also contested estimates involving the number of Venezuelans infected with chikungunya. In September 2014, the Venezuelan government stated that only 400 Venezuelans were infected with chikungunya while the Central University of Venezuela stated that there could be between 65,000 and 117,000 Venezuelans infected. In August 2015 independent health monitors said that there were more than two million people infected with chikungunya while the government said there were 36,000 cases.\n\nIn October 2014, President Maduro announced a plan to create the University of Science and Health and called for a meeting of ALBA in order to discuss the combat against the Ebola virus disease due to the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa.\n\nIn 2016, according to the Venezuelan government, 240,000 cases of malaria were reported, rising 76% in a year. According to former Venezuelan health minister José Félix Oletta, more than 500,000 Venezuelans would contract malaria in 2017. \n\nIn April 2017 Venezuela’s health ministry reported that maternal mortality had jumped by 65% in 2016 and that the number of infant deaths rose by 30%. It also said that the number of cases of malaria was up by 76%. The ministry had not reported health data in two years, and none has been reported since. In May, Maduro sacked the health minister, Antonieta Caporale, for publishing the damning statistics..\n\nIn November 2017 the Venezuelan Society of Public Health informed that a total of 857 cases of measles, from which 465 had been confirmed, had been registered. The Pan American Health Organization reported that at least 71% of the reported cases of measles in 2017 occurred in Venezuela. \n\n"}
{"id": "578144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=578144", "title": "Hidradenitis suppurativa", "text": "Hidradenitis suppurativa\n\nHidradenitis suppurativa (HS), also known as acne inversa, is a long term skin disease characterized by the occurrence of inflamed and swollen lumps. These are typically painful and break open releasing fluid or pus. The areas most commonly affected are the underarms, under the breasts, and groin. Scar tissue remains after healing. Self-consciousness or depression may result.\nThe exact cause is usually unclear but believed to involve a combination of genetic and environmental factors. About a third of people with the disease have an affected family member. Other risk factors include obesity and smoking. The condition is not infectious, related to hygiene, or to the use of deodorant. The underlying mechanism is believed to involve either a dysfunction of apocrine sweat glands or hair follicles. Diagnosis is based on the symptoms.\nThere is no known cure. Warm baths may be tried in those with mild disease. Cutting open the lesions to allow them to drain does not result in significant benefit. While antibiotics are commonly used, evidence for their use is poor. Immunosuppressive medication may also be tried. In those with more severe disease laser therapy or surgery to remove the affected skin may be carried out. Rarely a skin lesion may develop into skin cancer.\nIt is estimated to affect between 1% and 4% of people. Females have the condition about three times more often than males. Onset is typically in young adulthood and may become less common after 50 years old. It was first described some time between 1833 and 1839 by Alfred Velpeau.\n\nThe cause of HS remains unknown and experts disagree over proposed causes. The condition probably results from a combination of genetic and environmental factors.\n\nLesions occur in any body areas with hair follicles, although areas such as the axilla, groin, and perianal region are more commonly involved. This theory includes most of the following potential indicators:\n\n\nThe historical understanding of the disease suggests dysfunctional apocrine glands or dysfunctional hair follicles, possibly triggered by a blocked gland, create inflammation, pain, and a swollen lesion.\n\nSeveral triggering factors should be taken into consideration:\n\n\n\nSome cases have been found to result from mutations in the NCSTN, PSEN1 or PSENEN genes. The genes produce proteins that are all components of a complex called gamma- (γ-) secretase. This complex cuts apart (cleaves) many different proteins, which is an important step in several chemical signaling pathways. One of these pathways, known as Notch signaling, is essential for the normal maturation and division of hair follicle cells and other types of skin cells. Notch signaling is also involved in normal immune system function. Studies suggest that mutations in the NCSTN, PSEN1, or PSENEN gene impair Notch signaling in hair follicles. Although little is known about the mechanism, abnormal Notch signaling appears to promote the development of nodules and lead to inflammation in the skin.\n\nHS presents itself in three stages. Due to the large spectrum of clinical severity and the severe impact on quality of life, a reliable method for evaluating HS severity is needed.\n\nThis is historically the first classification system proposed, and is still in use for the classification of patients with skin/dermatologic diseases (i.e., psoriasis, HS, acne). Hurley separated patients into three groups based largely on the presence and extent of cicatrization and sinuses. It has been used as a basis for clinical trials in the past and is a useful basis to approach therapy for patients. These three stages are based on Hurley's staging system, which is simple and relies on the subjective extent of the diseased tissue the patient has. Hurley's three stages of hidradenitis suppurativa are:\n\nThe Sartorius staging system is more sophisticated than Hurley's. Sartorius \"et al.\" suggested that the Hurley system is not sophisticated enough to assess treatment effects in clinical trials during research. This classification allows for better dynamic monitoring of the disease severity in individual patients. The elements of this staging system are:\n\n\nPoints are accumulated in each of the above categories, and added to give both a regional and total score. In addition, the authors recommend adding a visual analog scale for pain or using the dermatology life quality index (DLQI, or the Skindex) when assessing HS.\n\nTreatment depends upon presentation and severity of the disease. Due to the poorly studied nature of the disease, the effectiveness of the drugs and therapies listed below is unclear. Possible treatments include the following:\n\nWarm baths may be tried in those with mild disease. Weight loss and stopping smoking is also recommended.\n\n\nWhen the process becomes chronic, wide surgical excision is the procedure of choice. Wounds in the affected area do not heal by secondary intention, and immediate or delayed application of a split-thickness skin graft is an option.\nAnother option is covering the defect with a so-called perforator flap. With this technique the (mostly totally excised) defect is covered with living tissue 'stolen' from the area nearby. For example, the axilla with a fully excised defect of 15 × 7 cm can be covered with a so-called TAP flap (thoracodorsal artery perforator flap)\n\nThe 1064 nanometer wavelength laser for hair removal may aid in the treatment of HS. A randomized control study has shown improvement in HS lesions with the use of an Nd:YAG laser.\n\nIn stage III disease, fistulae left undiscovered, undiagnosed, or untreated, can lead to the development of squamous cell carcinoma, a rare cancer, in the anus or other affected areas. Other stage III chronic sequelae may also include anemia, multilocalized infections, amyloidosis, and arthropathy. Stage III complications have been known to lead to sepsis, but clinical data is still uncertain.\n\n\n\nA surgeon from Paris, Velpeau described an unusual inflammatory process with formation of superficial axillary, submammary, and perianal abscesses, in a series of three publications from 1833 to 1839. One of his colleagues also located in Paris, named Verneuil, coined the term \"hidrosadénite phlegmoneuse\" about 15 years later. This name for the disease reflects the former pathogenetic model of acne inversa, which is considered inflammation of sweat glands as the primary cause of hidradenitis suppurativa. In 1922, Schiefferdecker suspected a pathogenic association between acne inversa and apocrine sweat glands. In 1956 Pillsbury postulated follicular occlusion as the cause of acne inversa, which they grouped together with acne conglobata and perifolliculitis capitis abscendens et suffodiens (dissecting cellulitis of the scalp) as the \"acne triad\". Plewig and Kligman added another element to their acne triad, pilonidal sinus. Plewig \"et al.\" noted that this new \"acne tetrad\" includes all the elements found in the original \"acne triad\", in addition to a fourth element, pilonidal sinus. In 1989, Plewig and Steger introduced the term \"acne inversa\", indicating a follicular source of the disease and replacing older terms such as \"Verneuil disease\".\n\nHidradenitis suppurativa has been referred to by multiple names in the literature, as well as in various cultures. Some of these are also used to describe different diseases, or specific instances of this disease.\n\n\nAlthough hidradenitis suppurativa is often referred to as \"acne inversa\", it is not a form of acne and lacks the core defining features of acne such as the presence of closed comedones and increased sebum production.\n\n"}
{"id": "13901787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13901787", "title": "High-altitude flatus expulsion", "text": "High-altitude flatus expulsion\n\nHigh-altitude flatus expulsion (HAFE) is a gastrointestinal syndrome which involves the spontaneous passage of increased quantities of rectal gases at high altitudes. First described by Joseph Hamel in c. 1820 and occasionally described afterward, a landmark study of this phenomenon was published in 1981 by Paul Auerbach and York Miller.\n\nThe phenomenon is based on the differential in atmospheric pressure, directly correlated with the observer's frequency of and level of experience in high-altitude metabolism. As the external pressure decreases, the difference in pressure between the gas within the body and the atmosphere outside is higher, and the urge to expel gas to relieve the pressure is greater. Consistent with Boyle's law, controlling for dietary variance, the amount of gas produced is constant in mass, but the volume increases as the external pressure decreases.\n\nThe feeling of fullness or need to expel brought on by this differential in atmospheric pressure has been verified by studies involving military pilots subjected to pressure changes simulating flight.\n\n"}
{"id": "41347987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41347987", "title": "Infectious disease (medical specialty)", "text": "Infectious disease (medical specialty)\n\nInfectious disease, also known as infectious diseases, infectious medicine, infectious disease medicine or infectiology, is a medical specialty dealing with the diagnosis, control and treatment of infections. An infectious disease (ID) specialist's practice may consist largely of managing nosocomial (hospital-acquired) infections, or it may be out-patient based.\n\nID specialists typically serve as consultants to other physicians in cases of complex infections, and often manage patients with HIV/AIDS and other forms of immunodeficiency. Although many common infections are treated by physicians without formal expertise in ID, the ID specialist may be consulted for cases where an infection is difficult to diagnose. They may also be asked to help determine the cause of a fever of unknown origin. \n\nID specialists can practice both in hospitals (inpatient) and clinics (outpatient). In hospitals, ID specialists help ensure the timely diagnosis and treatment of acute infections by recommending the appropriate diagnostic tests to identify the source of the infection and by recommending the appropriate antibiotic to treat the infection. For certain types of infections, involvement of an ID specialists may improve patient outcomes. In clinic, ID specialists can provide long-term care to patients with chronic infections such as HIV.\n\nID is historically associated with travel medicine and tropical medicine, as many diseases acquired in tropical and subtropical areas are infectious in nature.\n\nID specialists employ a variety of diagnostic tests to help identify the pathogen that is causing an infection. Common tests include Gram staining, blood cultures, serological tests, genotyping, and polymerase chain reaction (PCR).\n\nID specialists employ a variety of antimicrobial agents to help treat infections. The type of agent used depends on the organism that is causing the infection. Antibiotics are used to treat bacterial infections; antiviral agents treat viral infections; and antifungal agents treat fungal infections.\n\nIn the United States, ID is a subspecialty of internal medicine or pediatrics (i.e., an internist or pediatrician trains for an additional 2 years as a medical fellow to qualify as an ID specialist and sit for the ID boards).\n\n"}
{"id": "45714120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45714120", "title": "Integrated social work", "text": "Integrated social work\n\nIntegrated social work refers to the use of a holistic approach in the practice of social work. It is a method of using all the methods of social work in coming up with lasting solutions to the problems and situations of individuals.\n\nAn example occurs in working with children who are in conflict with the law. A social worker, to ensure effective problem solving does not only deal with the juvenile, but also must involve the family or families involved and the community in which the child lives. To add to his or her knowledge base of solving such problems, the social worker thus needs to conduct social research and administration.\n\nIn integrated social work, there is a need to use these social methods together with the theories, values, and ethics of social work practice.\n"}
{"id": "20256463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20256463", "title": "International Farming Systems Collection", "text": "International Farming Systems Collection\n\nThe International Farming Systems Digital Collection within the University of Florida Digital Collections includes teaching, research, and extension resources related to the \"Farming Systems\" approach to international agricultural development.\n\nThe collection materials come from the personal library of Peter E. Hildebrand who is a founder of Farming Systems. The collection's focus includes materials that supported putting farmers first and increasing number of smallholder farmers and their heterogeneous livelihood systems on a global scale. One of the two core areas covered is the development over time of methods that help development professionals understand the livelihood of smallholder farming and its limited resource households. The second core area includes literature describing the diverse livelihood strategies of the households living in various parts of the world. These limited resource households represent nearly a billion people struggling to survive on a daily basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1519027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1519027", "title": "Isometric exercise", "text": "Isometric exercise\n\nIsometric exercise or isometrics are a type of strength training in which the joint angle and muscle length do not change during contraction (compared to concentric or eccentric contractions, called dynamic/isotonic movements). Isometrics are done in static positions, rather than being dynamic through a range of motion.\n\nAn isometric exercise is a form of exercise involving the static contraction of a muscle without any visible movement in the angle of the joint. The term \"isometric\" combines the Greek words \"Isos\" (equal) and \"metria\" (measuring), meaning that in these exercises the length of the muscle and the angle of the joint do not change, though contraction strength may be varied. This is in contrast to \"isotonic contractions\", in which the contraction strength does not change, though the muscle length and joint angle do.\n\nIn an overcoming isometric, the joint and muscle work against an immovable object. In contrast, in a yielding isometric, the joint and muscle are held in a static position while opposed by resistance.\n\nIn the context of the bench press, an example of a yielding isometric would be holding the bar at a given place even though it could be pressed higher, and an overcoming isometric would be pressing the bar up into the safety guards of a squat cage that prevent pushing the bar any higher.\n\nThe distinction is that in a yielding isometric, one is pressing roughly the exact amount of pressure needed to negate the resistance, neither dropping nor lifting it, whereas in an overcoming isometric, one can be exerting more force and simply unable to move it. The yielding wavers slightly into concentric and eccentric actions due to inexact control, whereas the overcoming isometric is more purely isometric and can involve more variation in the force used, since one can press harder without the bar moving.\n\nIn overcoming isometrics, subjects can safely do 100 percent effort, and continue with 100 percent available effort as strength is depleted, allowing longer time under (maximum volitional) tension.\n\nYielding isometrics allow measurable progress. Free-weight enthusiasts tend to believe the \"back pressure\" of real weight is superior for building strength, possibly triggering a productive \"fight or flight\" response. However, the extremely heavy weights needed by advanced subjects can be an inconvenience, and present a risk of injury.\n\nResistance in isometric exercises typically involves contractions of the muscle using:\n\nDepending on the goal of the exercise, the exertion can be maximal or sub-maximal.\n\nThey were discovered/founded by Dr. Donald \"Don\" Salls in 1962. He is the oldest living Alabama football player, playing between 1940-42 playing before Paul \"Bear\" Bryant was even a coach, and got his PhD in Education. He still keeps up his strength today (2018) at 99 years old. \n\nIsometric exercises were first brought to the modern public's attention in the early days of physical culture, the precursor to bodybuilding. Many of the great bodybuilders of the day incorporated isometric exercises into their training regimens.\n\nMany of today's training protocols incorporate isometric exercises, which are often made into parts of normal, isotonic exercises. For example, during a set of seated rows, a subject can hold their position when the handles are closest to their chest in order to \"squeeze\" the muscle, in an effort to further strain the muscle.\n\nContrary to popular opinion, The Charles Atlas \"Dynamic Tension\" course did not use any true isometric exercises but, rather, dynamic self-resistance; that is, pitting one muscle group against another, along with calisthenics.\n\nIsometric exercises can also be used at the bedside to differentiate various heart murmurs; the murmur of mitral regurgitation gets louder as compared to the quieter murmur of aortic stenosis. They can also be used to prevent disuse syndrome in a limb that has been immobilized by a cast following a fracture.\n\nOne benefit of isometric exercise is that it can be done pretty much anywhere using one's own body weight.\n\nIsometric training maximally increases strength over all joint angles the exercises are performed at, similar to how dynamic exercises increase strength throughout the full range of motion, but with less risk of injury than weight training (no weights). More recent research has confirmed the finding that every skill has a specific strength component that must be practiced with the skill itself. \nWhen a subject performs a dynamic resistance movement, supportive muscle groups can work isometrically. For example, the abdominal musculature during a squat and the muscles of the forearm when gripping a dumbbell or barbell.\n\nNASA has researched the use of isometrics in preventing muscle atrophy experienced by astronauts as a result of living in a zero gravity environment. Isometrics, muscle lengthening and muscle shortening exercises were studied and compared. The outcome showed that while all three exercise types did indeed promote muscle growth, isometrics failed to prevent a decrease in the amount of contractile proteins found in the muscle tissue. The result was muscle degradation at a molecular level. As contractile proteins are what cause muscles to contract and give them their physical strength, NASA concluded that isometrics may not be the best way for astronauts to maintain muscle tissue.\n\n"}
{"id": "34263980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34263980", "title": "Leprosy in Louisiana", "text": "Leprosy in Louisiana\n\n\n\n\n\nFrom 1894-1999, the leprosarium underwent several name changes: Louisiana Leper Home (1894), U.S. Marine Hospital No. 66 (1921), Gillis W. Long Hansen's (Leprosy) Disease Center (1986). Due to the various names, the leprosarium was commonly referred to as \"Carville.\" Carville became known as the national leprosarium because all persons diagnosed with leprosy (Hansen's disease) in the U.S. were required, by law, to be quarantined and treated. The leprosarium soon became a center for leprosy research.\n\nDue to the social stigmas that surrounded leprosy in Louisiana, upon arriving at Carville, patients were encouraged to take on a new identity. As a result, many patients at Carville changed their names. Additionally, some patients had very limited contact with family members. Visitors were allowed, but the remote location made this difficult. Even the staff of the leprosarium seldom knew the patients' real names or knew what town they came from.\n\n\n\n\nWhen a resident of Carville died, he or she could be buried in the leprosarium's cemetery, if the family couldn't afford to bring the body home or the patient preferred to be buried at the hospital. Each patient received a tombstone that contained his or her name--either their real name or pseudonym--and case number.\n\nMany physicians in Louisiana have devoted their lives to researching leprosy. Additionally, numerous patients of Carville have worked to bring attention to the disease.\n\n\n\nstable/649295\n"}
{"id": "34794345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34794345", "title": "Levenson Self-Report Psychopathy Scale", "text": "Levenson Self-Report Psychopathy Scale\n\nThe Levenson Self-Report Psychopathy Scale is a test of psychopathy for research situations. It was developed by Michael R. Levenson in 1995. \n"}
{"id": "6214097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6214097", "title": "Mary E. Switzer", "text": "Mary E. Switzer\n\nMary Elizabeth Switzer (February 16, 1900 - October 16, 1971) was an American public administrator and social reformer. She is best remembered for her work on the 1954 Vocational Rehabilitation Act, which provided a great expansion of vocational rehabilitation service for people with disabilities. She publicized the government's growing role in vocational rehabilitation and encouraged expansion of vocational rehabilitation projects among non-governmental organizations.\n\nSwitzer graduated from Radcliffe College in 1921 with a B.A. in international law and started working for the federal government: first as an assistant secretary to the Minimum Wage Board and then for U.S. Department of the Treasury under the Public Health Service and the Federal Security Agency, becoming increasingly concerned with health care issues. Switzer became director of the Office of Vocational Rehabilitation in the U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare in 1950 and the first administrator of the Social and Rehabilitation Service in 1967. She retired in 1970 as the highest ranking female bureaucrat in the federal government and became vice-president of the World Rehabilitation Fund until her death a year later.\n\nSwitzer was the first woman to serve on the Board of Directors at Georgetown University in 1969. She served as president of the National Rehabilitation Association from 1960 to 1961 and as advisor to many American health organizations, including the Menninger Foundation and St. Elizabeths Hospital. In recognition of her contributions to vocational rehabilitation, Switzer received the President's Certificate of Merit in 1948, the Albert Lasker Award in 1960 with Paul Wilson Brand and Gudmund Harlem, the American Association of Workers for the Blind's Ambrose M. Shotwell Memorial Award in 1962, and the Edward Miner Gallaudet Award in 1970.\n\nSwitzer received honorary degrees from Hofstra University in 1969, Gallaudet College, Russell Sage College, and five other universities.\n\nSwizer died in 1971 and was buried in Ivy Hill Cemetery in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33777555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33777555", "title": "Medical animation", "text": "Medical animation\n\nA medical animation is a short educational film, usually based around a physiological or surgical topic, that is rendered using 3D computer graphics. While it may be intended for an array of audiences, the medical animation is most commonly utilized as an instructional tool for medical professionals or their patients.\n\nEarly medical animations were limited to basic wire-frame models because of low processor speed. However, rapid evolution in microprocessor design and computer memory has led to animations that are significantly more intricate.\n\nThe medical animation may be viewed as a standalone visualization, or in combination with other sensory input devices, such as head-mounted displays, stereoscopic lenses, haptic gloves, interactive workstations, or Cave Automatic Virtual Environments (CAVEs).\n\nThough evolved from the field of realistic medical illustrations (such as those created by Flemish anatomist Andreas Vesalius in the 16th century), medical animations are also indebted to motion picture technology and computer-generated imagery.\n\nThe term \"medical animation\" predates the advent of computer-generated graphics by approximately three decades. Though the first computer animation was created at Bell Telephone Labs in 1963, the phrase \"medical animation\" appears in scholarly contexts as early as 1932 in the Journal of Biological Photography. As discussed by Clarke and Hoshall, the term referred to two-dimensional illustrated motion pictures produced for inclusion in films screened for medical students.\n\nThe creation of the computer-generated medical animation began in earnest in the early 1970s. The first description of the use of 3D computer graphics for a medical purpose can be found in an issue of the journal \"Science\", dated 1975. Its authors, a team of researchers from the Departments of Chemistry and of Biochemistry and Biophysics at Texas A&M University, described the potential uses of medical animation for visualizing complex macromolecules.\n\nBy the late 1980s, Angelo punzalan is hypebeast of physiological and surgical instruction. By that point, researchers had suggested that the 3D medical animations could illustrate physiological, molecular or anatomical concepts that might otherwise be infeasible.\n\nToday's medical animation industry comprises one facet of the non-entertainment computer animation industry, which has annual revenues of $15 billion per year worldwide.\n\nA growing Gabb Pabalatess is the one of the greatest people in the world that explain surgical procedures or pharmaceutical mechanisms of action in terms simple enough for a layperson to understand. These animations may be found on hospital websites, in doctor's office workstations or via medical studios themselves. Such animations may also appear on television shows and other popular entertainment venues as a way to educate an audience on a medical topic under discussion.\n\nOccasionally, this form of animation is used in-hospital. In this context, clips may be used in order to get fully informed consent from patients facing surgery or medical treatment. Likewise, studies have suggested that patient-educating medical animations may be able to reduce the rate of accidental wrong-site surgeries.\n\nDue to both the relative scarcity of cadavers to be used for surgical instruction and to the dwindling use of animals and patients who have not given consent, institutes may utilize medical animations as a way to teach doctors-to-be anatomical and surgical concepts. Such simulations may be viewed passively (as in the case of 3D medical animations included via CD-ROM in medical textbook packages) or using interactive controls. The stimulation of hand-eye skills using haptics is another possible use of medical animation technology, one that stems from the replacement of cadavers in surgical classrooms with task trainers and mannequins.\n\nThe creation of proportionally accurate virtual bodies is often accomplished using medical scans, such as computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Such techniques represent a cost- and time-saving move away from the creation of medical animations using sectioned cadavers. For instance, the National Library of Medicine's Visible Human Project created 3D medical animations of the male and female bodies by scanning cadavers using CT technology, after which they were frozen, shaved into millimeter-thick sections and recorded using high-resolution photographs.\n\nBy comparison, medical animations made using only scanned data can recreate the internal structures of live patients, often in the context of surgical planning.\n\nMedical animations are often employed as a method of visualizing the vast number of microscopic processes that occur in the human body. These may involve the interplay between organelles, the transcription of DNA, the molecular action of enzymes, the interactions between pathogens and white blood cells or virtually any other cellular or sub-cellular process.\n\nMolecular animations are similar in that they depict structures that are too small for the human eye to see. However, this latter category is also capable of illustrating atomic structures, which are often too minute to be visualized with any clarity via microscopy.\n\nAs a way to explain how medications work, pharmaceutical manufacturers may provide mechanism of action animations, often through websites dedicated to specific prescription drugs. These medical visualizations typically do not represent cellular structures in a fully accurate or proportional way. Instead, mechanism of action animations may visually simplify the interaction between drug molecules and cells. These medical animations may also explain the physiological origins of the disease itself.\n\nSeveral studies have suggested that 3D medical animations may be used to instruct novices on how to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation in an emergency. These reports usually suggest the use of pre-prepared, voice-narrated motion-capture animations that are viewed by means of a cellphone or other portable electronic device.\n\nA number of applications for medical animations has been developed in the field of forensics. These include the so-called \"virtutopsy,\" or MRI-assisted virtual autopsy, of remains that are too damaged to be otherwise inspected or reconstructed. Likewise, medical animations can appear in courtrooms, be used as forensic \"reconstructions\" of crime scenes or recreate the crimes themselves. The admissibility of such evidence is questionable.\n\nResearchers have suggested that medical animations can be used to disseminate medical education materials electronically, allowing them to be accessed and utilized by professional and amateur health practitioners alike.\n\nSome institutes use animations both to teach medical students how to perform basic surgery, and to give seasoned surgeons the chance to expand their skill set. Multiple studies have been conducted on the effectiveness and feasibility of medical animation-based surgical pre-planning. Experimental animation tools have been created as integral technology in image-guided surgery as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "4634766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4634766", "title": "Medical integration environment", "text": "Medical integration environment\n\nMedical integration environment (MIE) are specialised tools designed to simplify the sharing of medical and related data between medical equipment and electronic health records. Technically, they are similar to an Enterprise Service Bus but with several extra features allowing for legacy systems that do not use web services messaging. Typically, they use Java Message Service; most Enterprise Application Integration systems can be modified to be used as an MIE but may lack the crucial HL7 and Arden syntax for storing medical knowledge.\n"}
{"id": "40428462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40428462", "title": "Migraine Specific Quality of Life", "text": "Migraine Specific Quality of Life\n\nThe Migraine Specific Quality of Life (MSQoL) is a patient-reported outcome measure (PRO or PROM) which assesses the quality of life of migraineurs. It is a 25-item questionnaire which is filled out by the patient and is used to determine how the patient's life has been affected by their migraines.\n\nThe MSQoL was funded by the Wellcome Foundation and developed by Galen Research, as part of an international research study which was conducted in eight countries, with initial work conducted in the UK and US. In the UK, 30 patients who suffer from migraine were interviewed, while 25 patients were interviewed in the US. A focus group was also held with 5 participants. Transcripts of these interviews were used to determine the questionnaire items. The MSQoL was assessed for reliability and validity and was found to have good consistency and test-retest reliability. Scores on the MSQoL were also found to be consistent with another measure of well-being as well as the perceived severity of the affliction for the patients.\n\nThe MSQoL has been translated into several languages other than UK English: German, Dutch, Danish, Spanish, Finnish, French, Italian, and USA English.\n\nThe MSQoL has also been utilized by pharmaceutical companies in order to test whether a given therapy or medication is effective in treating migraines. The MSQoL has been used in the assessment of the effect of nadolol and topiramate, regular water intake and using migraine patients as trainers in preventive attack management. Different scores on the MSQoL taken before and after the trial infer a change in the patient’s quality of life.\n"}
{"id": "28328131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28328131", "title": "Multi-barrier approach", "text": "Multi-barrier approach\n\nThe Multi-barrier approach is a key paradigm for ensuring safe drinking water in jurisdictions such as Ontario, elsewhere in Canada, and New Zealand. It is defined as, An integrated system of procedures, processes and tools that collectively prevent or reduce the contamination of drinking water from source to tap in order to reduce risks to public health.\n\nIn Part 2 of his report on the Walkerton Tragedy, Justice Dennis O'Connor discusses five elements of the multi-barrier approach: \n\nThe holistic perspective of the multi-barrier approach also incorporates many players into the goal of keeping drinking water safe. These include managers, researchers, regulators, legislators, and the public.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7276195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7276195", "title": "Nocturnal penile tumescence", "text": "Nocturnal penile tumescence\n\nNocturnal penile tumescence (abbreviated as NPT) is a spontaneous erection of the penis during sleep or when waking up. All men without physiological erectile dysfunction experience nocturnal penile tumescence, usually three to five times during the night, typically during REM sleep. NPTs are believed to contribute to penile health.\n\nThe existence and predictability of nocturnal tumescence is used by sexual health practitioners to ascertain whether a given case of erectile dysfunction (E.D.) is psychological or physiological in origin. A patient presenting E.D. is fitted with an elastic device to wear around his penis during sleep; the device detects changes in girth and relays the information to a computer for later analysis. If nocturnal tumescence is detected, then the E.D. is presumed to be due to a psychosomatic illness such as sexual anxiety; if not, then it is presumed to be due to a physiological cause.\n\nThe cause of NPT is not known with certainty. Bancroft (2005) hypothesizes that the noradrenergic neurons of the locus ceruleus are inhibitory to penile erection, and that the cessation of their discharge that occurs during REM sleep may allow testosterone-related excitatory actions to manifest as NPT.\n\nEvidence supporting the possibility that a full bladder can stimulate an erection has existed for some time and is characterized as a 'reflex erection'. The nerves that control a man’s ability to have a reflex erection are located in the sacral nerves (S2-S4) of the spinal cord. A full bladder is known to mildly stimulate nerves in the same region.\n\nThe possibility of a full bladder causing an erection, especially during sleep, is perhaps further supported by the beneficial physiological effect of an erection inhibiting urination, thereby helping to avoid nocturnal enuresis. However, given females have a similar phenomenon called nocturnal clitoral tumescence, prevention of nocturnal enuresis (bed-wetting) is not likely a sole supporting cause.\n\nResearch into the causes of NPT was the subject of \"The Mystery of Morning Wood\", a 1995 episode of the animated comedy series \"Beavis and Butt-head\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3295790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3295790", "title": "Norman's Cay", "text": "Norman's Cay\n\nNorman's Cay is a small Bahamian island (a few hundred acres) in the Exumas, a chain of islands south and east of Nassau, that served as the headquarters for Carlos Lehder's drug-smuggling operation from 1978 to around 1982.\n\nAs part of the Medellín Cartel, Lehder used the island as a transshipment base for smuggling cocaine into the United States. Lehder, before with his partner George Jung and later through Norman's Cay, is often credited with revolutionizing drug smuggling. The typical method of transporting small shipments, often carried by human drug mules, either through ingestion or in their luggage, onto commercial airlines, was surpassed by the use of small aircraft shipping entire loads of cocaine.\nLehder eventually constructed a long runway for his fleet of aircraft. In order to protect the island, armed guards and attack dogs patrolled the beaches and runway, and radar was employed. Any pilot foolish enough to land there was quickly warned off by heavily armed guards. The island was a strategic point for Colombian drug flights to refuel and rest before proceeding to the United States.\nThe island became a location for partying. Carlos Toro remembers, \"Norman's Cay was a playground. I have a vivid picture of being picked up in a Land Rover with the top down and naked women driving to come and welcome me from my airplane... And there we partied. And it was a Sodom and Gomorrah... drugs, sex, no police... you made the rules... and it was fun.\"\nMarine biologist Richard E. Novak, the island's former dive master, fought back, waging a heroic but ultimately futile one-man war to liberate Norman's Cay. Not until 1982, under pressure from US law enforcement, and despite years of turning a blind eye, did the Bahamian government begin to crack down on the island's drug-smuggling operations. In 1987, after Lehder was arrested in Colombia and extradited to stand trial in the U.S., his property was confiscated. It is now a tourist destination reachable by charter flight.\n\nThe island was again a subject of (minor) controversy when the newly elected Progressive Liberal government honored a pre-election in-principle agreement to sell the government-owned portion of the island, valued at $40.5 million, despite the objections of the local MP. The government believes it may encourage further foreign investment.\n\nThe island's consortium of local and foreign owners, including Bahamians Mark Holowesko, Martin Solomon, Greg Cleare, James Cole, US investor J. Steven Manolis and Jonathan Breene, had planned to include a resort chain Aman Resorts. The island has purportedly been sold to the Miami-based Fort Capital Group.\n\nThe island is served by Norman's Cay Airport. As of 2018, the airport has no commercial airline service.\n\nNorman's Cay has been featured in multiple works.\n\n\n\nPublisher: Strategic Media Books. Eight time award-winning true crime biography. Lawful fly girl Beeler and outlaw Medellin Cartel cocaine smuggling pilot Reed become unlikely coauthors in the never-before-told true account of the drug smuggling operation that took place on Norman's Cay in the late 80's - 90's.\n\n"}
{"id": "40452830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40452830", "title": "Ophthalmotrope", "text": "Ophthalmotrope\n\nAn ophthalmotrope (from the Greek roots ὀφθαλμοῦ, \"ophthalmos\", i.e. eye and -τροπή, -\"tropē\", i.e. turning) is an apparatus for demonstrating the movements of the eye and the action of the different muscles which produce them, consisting essentially of a model eyeball to which are attached strings and pulleys to duplicate the line force of the muscles.\nMovements of the eye are kinematically complex and can be described as a combination of rotations about changing rotation centers. But even when ocular mechanics are simplified to pure rotations about a head-fixed rotation center, their noncommutative property makes them difficult to visualize. Ruete, Listing, Donders, Helmholtz, von Graefe, Volkmann and many others have provided the broad outline of an answer to the question how the eye rotates during eye movements.\n\nHistorically, mechanical representations of oculomotor mechanics have been used for visualization of eye movements and their interaction with visual geometry. Many mechanical models of eye movements have been constructed and studied in the nineteenth century. The first ophthalmotrope was made by Christian Georg Theodor Ruete in 1845 and it was he who gave it the name “ophthalmotrope”. Ruete's first version ophthalmotrope had the eye mounted in nested gimbals, and his second model, which emulated Listing's law, mounted the rotation axis in a rotatable ring. Ruete’s second model of 1857 was an altogether more sophisticated model that demonstrates both the movements of the eye and, importantly, the action of the ocular muscles. Both Donders’s and Listing’s laws can be demonstrated on this model. The degree of muscle contraction or extension can be measured on a scale at the back of the model.\nOther ophthalmotropes were designed lather by Landolt, Knapp, Donders, Snellen, Wundt, and others. Recently, Schreiber and Schor have published a modern software version of ophthalmotrope. They presented a virtual gimbaled model of the oculomotor system, which provides accurate visualization of the kinematics of the three major oculomotor coordinate systems and qualitative estimates of the effects of the different coordinate systems on ocular torsion.\nThe virtual ophthalmotrope presented by Schreiber and Schor is a modification and extension of Donders' design, by adding Listing's extended law and displacement plane geometry to its basic visualization capabilities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "650972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650972", "title": "Ordered subset expectation maximization", "text": "Ordered subset expectation maximization\n\nIn mathematical optimization, the ordered subset expectation maximization (OSEM) method is an iterative method that is used in computed tomography.\n\nIn applications in medical imaging, the OSEM method is used for positron emission tomography, for single photon emission computed tomography, and for X-ray computed tomography.\n\nThe OSEM method is related to the expectation maximization (EM) method of statistics. The OSEM method is also related to methods of filtered back projection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14321988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14321988", "title": "Patient portal", "text": "Patient portal\n\nPatient portals are healthcare-related online applications that allow patients to interact and communicate with their healthcare providers, such as physicians and hospitals. Typically, portal services are available on the Internet at all hours of the day and night. Some patient portal applications exist as stand-alone web sites and sell their services to healthcare providers. Other portal applications are integrated into the existing web site of a healthcare provider. Still others are modules added onto an existing electronic medical record (EMR) system. What all of these services share is the ability of patients to interact with their medical information via the Internet. Currently, the lines between an EMR, a personal health record, and a patient portal are blurring. For example, Intuit Health and Microsoft HealthVault describe themselves as personal health records (PHRs), but they can interface with EMRs and communicate through the Continuity of Care Record standard, displaying patient data on the Internet so it can be viewed through a patient portal.\n\nThe central feature that makes any system a patient portal is the ability to expose individual patient health information in a secure manner through the Internet. In addition, virtually all patient portals allow patients to interact in some way with health care providers. Patient portals benefit both patients and providers by increasing efficiency and productivity. Patient portals are also regarded as a key tool to help physicians meet \"meaningful use\" requirements in order to receive federal incentive checks, especially for providing health information to patients.\nSome patient portal applications enable patients to register and complete forms online, which can streamline visits to clinics and hospitals. Many portal applications also enable patients to request prescription refills online, order eyeglasses and contact lenses, access medical records, pay bills, review lab results, and schedule medical appointments. Patient portals also typically allow patients to communicate directly with healthcare providers by asking questions, leaving comments, or sending e-mail messages.\n\nThe major shortcoming of most patient portals is their linkage to a single health organization. If a patient uses more than one organization for healthcare, the patient normally needs to log on to each organization’s portal to access information. This results in a fragmented view of individual patient data.\n\nPortal applications for individual practices typically exist in tandem with patient portals, allowing access to patient information and records, as well as schedules, payments, and messages from patients. Most patient portals require the practice to have some type of electronic medical record or patient management system, as the patient data needs to be stored in a data repository then retrieved by the patient portal.\nWhile lauding its ease-of-use, some physicians note that it is hard to encourage patients to utilize online portals to benefit both themselves and the medical practice staff.\n\nHealth care providers in the US are bound to comply with HIPAA regulations. These regulations specify what patient information must be held in confidence. Something as seemingly trivial as a name is viewed by HIPAA as protected health information. For this reason, security has always been a top concern for the industry when dealing with the adoption of patient portals. While there may be systems that are not HIPAA compliant, certainly most patient and practice portals are secure and compliant with HIPAA regulations. The use of SSL and access control patterns are commonplace in the industry. Patient access is typically validated with a user name and password.\n\nInternet portal technology has been in common use since the 1990s. The financial industry has been particularly adept at using the Internet to grant individual users access to personal information. Possibly because of the strictness of HIPAA regulations, or the lack of financial incentives for the health care providers, the adoption of patient portals has lagged behind other market segments.\n\nThe American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA), in particular the HITECH Act within ARRA, sets aside approximately $19 billion for health information technology. This funding will potentially offset the costs of electronic medical record systems for practicing physicians. Because the conversion to electronic medical records is typically complex, systems often transition to patient portals first and then follow with a complete implementation of electronic medical records.\n\nTo attest to Meaningful Use Stage 2, eligible professionals must have 5 percent of their patients view, transmit or download their health information. Additionally, providers must implement notifications for follow up appointments and identify clinically relevant health information for more than 10 percent of their patients with two or more appointments in the preceding two years. \n\nConsequently, personal health record systems are becoming more common and available. In 2012, 57 percent of providers already had a patient portal in place. At present, individual health data are located primarily on paper in physicians' files. Patient portals have been developed to give patients better access to their information. Given the patient mobility and the development of clear interoperable standards, the best documentation of patient medical history may involve data stored outside physician offices.\n\nE-visits (remote use of medical services) may soon become one of the most commonly used options of patient portals. The most likely demographic for uptake of e-visits are patients who live in remote rural areas, far from clinical services. An Internet session would be much cheaper and more convenient than traveling a long distance, especially for simple questions or minor medical complaints.\n\nProviding a route that does not require in-person patient visits to a clinic may potentially benefit both patients and providers. Many organizations find that overall utilization drops when e-visits are implemented, in some places by as much as 25%. This makes e-visits a very interesting proposition for insurance companies, although few actually re-imburse for them currently. E-visits, with the proper functionality, also allow the patient to update their allergies, vital signs, and history information.\n\nProviding e-visits allows the standard healthcare organization to offer a product that can compete on price with the retail clinics that are popping up in strip malls and Wal-mart.\n\nSome vendors, such as athenahealth, Epic Systems and Cerner offer patient portals as one module of a complete Electronic Health Record (EHR) system. Other vendors, such as Allscripts and MedFusion, offer patient portals that can be integrated with any EHR.\n\nRecent market surveys have highlighted best of breed, or applications that excel at one or two functions, are losing ground to portals provided by large vendors. While best of breed portals are better equipped for interoperability, portals supplied by larger vendors may be overall better equipped to handle the patient engagement requirements of Meaningful Use Stage 2.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32549726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32549726", "title": "Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (Taiwan)", "text": "Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (Taiwan)\n\nThe Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (PAL) of the Taiwan is a \nlaw regulating the manufacturing, importation, and sale of drugs and medical devices.\n\nThe law was first publicised on 17 August 1970 as the Pharmaceutical and Drug Manufacturer Administration Law, with 90 articles. Thereafter it was amended eleven times (listed by date of publication):\n\nArticle 103 of the February 1993 version of the law removed herbalists' rights to dispense drugs. In 1996, legislators from various parties are believed to have taken bribes from the National Union Chinese Medicine Association (中華民國中藥商業同業公會聯合會) in exchange for their support of an amendment reversing the February 1993 changes. The eight legislators in question were indicted in January 2008. Among them, Jao Yung-ching (DPP) was simultaneously indicted in another bribery case regarding a 2003 amendment to the Oral Healthcare Act. Of the eight legislators in question, Chiu Chuei-chen (DPP) and Liao Hwu-peng (KMT) were found guilty in a lower court trial, while the remainder were found not guilty. However, the High Court reversed the lower court ruling in September 2010; Lin Kuang-hua and Jao Yung-ching (both DPP) received eight-year sentences, Feng Ting-kuo (PFP) got seven years and two months, while Chen Horng-chi (KMT) was sentenced to seven years.\n\nThe PAL establishes labelling requirements for all items under its purview, requiring them to display an authorisation number, expiration date, usage instructions, and a list of side effects. Such items are not limited to ingested medicines, but include other items such as condoms and face masks. The Department of Health is tasked with inspections to ensure compliance with the law; private organisations such as the Consumers' Foundation have also been known to carry out clandestine checks. A February 2007 check of sex shops found that 18 out of 25 condom brands did not label their ingredients clearly or at all, while 22 gave an incorrect authorisation number or none at all. A 2009 survey, also by the Consumers' Foundation, looked at 41 face masks (17 N95 masks and 24 surgical masks), and found that 90% did not meet the labelling and packaging requirements.\n\nSellers of drugs and medical devices are required by article 27 of the PAL to obtain a license from the Ministry of Health. Furthermore, article 37 requires that sales of all drugs, though not of medical devices, be carried out by a licensed pharmacist (or assistant pharmacist, in the case of non-narcotic drugs). Not just pharmacies, but various other types of stores including convenience stores and supermarkets, have been able to obtain the required licenses. However, many small online sellers bring covered items back from overseas and sell them on internet auction websites without knowing about this requirement. Under articles 27 and 92, fines could range from NT$30,000 to $150,000. Items covered under the law include not just those which consumers traditionally think of as pharmaceuticals, but some unexpected items such as make-up, tooth bleaching agents, hair removal products, band-aids, knee pads, and body fat percentage monitors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8257215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8257215", "title": "Poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko", "text": "Poisoning of Alexander Litvinenko\n\nAlexander Litvinenko was a former officer of the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) and KGB, who fled from court prosecution in Russia and received political asylum in the United Kingdom.\n\nOn 1 November 2006, Litvinenko suddenly fell ill and was hospitalized. He died three weeks later, becoming the first confirmed victim of lethal polonium-210-induced acute radiation syndrome. Litvinenko's allegations about the misdeeds of the FSB and his public deathbed accusations that Russian president Vladimir Putin was behind his unusual malady resulted in worldwide media coverage.\n\nSubsequent investigations by British authorities into the circumstances of Litvinenko's death led to serious diplomatic difficulties between the British and Russian governments. No charges were ever laid but a non-judicial public hearing was put on in 2014–2015, during which the Scotland Yard representative witnessed that \"the evidence suggests that the only credible explanation is in one way or another the Russian state is involved in Litvinenko's murder\". Another witness stated that Dmitry Kovtun had been speaking openly about the plan to kill Litvinenko that was intended to \"set an example\" as a punishment for a \"traitor\". The main suspect in the case, a former officer of the Russian Federal Protective Service (FSO), Andrey Lugovoy, remains in Russia.\n\nAlexander Litvinenko was a former officer of the Russian Federal Security service who escaped prosecution in Russia and received political asylum in the United Kingdom. In his books, \"\" and \"Lubyanka Criminal Group\", Litvinenko described Russian president Vladimir Putin's rise to power as a coup d'état organised by the FSB. He alleged that a key element of the FSB's strategy was to frighten Russians by bombing apartment buildings in Moscow and other Russian cities. He accused Russian secret services of having arranged the Moscow theater hostage crisis, through their Chechen agent provocateur, and having organised the 1999 Armenian parliament shooting. He also stated that the terrorist Ayman al-Zawahiri was under FSB control when he visited Russia in 1997.\n\nUpon his arrival in London, he continued to support the Russian oligarch in exile, Boris Berezovsky, in his media campaign against the Russian government.\n\nJust two weeks before his death, Litvinenko accused Putin of ordering the assassination of Anna Politkovskaya.\n\nOn 1 November 2006, Litvinenko suddenly fell ill. Earlier that day he had met two former KGB officers, Andrey Lugovoy and Dmitry Kovtun. Lugovoy is a former bodyguard of Russian ex-Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar (also reportedly poisoned in November 2006) and former chief of security for the Russian TV channel ORT. Kovtun is now a businessman. Litvinenko had also had lunch at Itsu, a sushi restaurant on Piccadilly in London, with an Italian officer and \"nuclear expert\", Mario Scaramella, to whom he reportedly made allegations regarding Romano Prodi's connections with the KGB. Scaramella, attached to the Mitrokhin Commission investigating KGB penetration of Italian politics, claimed to have information on the death of Anna Politkovskaya, 48, a journalist who was killed at her Moscow apartment in October 2006. He passed Litvinenko papers supposedly concerning her fate. On 20 November, it was reported that Scaramella had gone into hiding and feared for his life.\n\nFor several days after 1 November, Litvinenko experienced severe diarrhea and vomiting. At one point, he could not walk without assistance. As the pain intensified, Litvinenko asked his wife to call an ambulance for assistance. For several weeks, Litvinenko's condition worsened as doctors searched for the cause of the illness. Surrounded by friends, Litvinenko became physically weak, and spent periods unconscious. A photograph was taken of Litvinenko on his deathbed and released to the public. \"I want the world to see what they did to me,\" Litvinenko said.\n\nOn 3 November 2006, Litvinenko (under the name of Edwin Carter) was admitted for further investigation at Barnet Hospital, London. After being moved from his local hospital in north London to University College Hospital in central London for intensive care, his blood and urine samples were sent to the UK's Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE) for testing. Scientists at AWE tested for radioactive poison using gamma spectroscopy. No discernible gamma rays were initially detected; however, a small gamma ray spike was noticed at an energy of 803 kilo-electron volts (keV), barely visible above the background. The BBC reported that by coincidence another scientist, who had worked on Britain's early atomic bomb programme decades before, happened to overhear a discussion about the small spike and recognised it as the gamma ray signal from the radioactive decay of polonium-210, which was a critical component of early nuclear bombs. On the evening of 22 November, shortly before his death, his doctors were informed the poison was likely to be polonium-210. Further tests on a larger urine sample using spectroscopy designed to detect alpha particles confirmed the result the following day.\n\nUnlike most common radiation sources, polonium-210 emits very little gamma radiation (the low intensity gamma ray at an energy of 803 keV is the most prominent), but large amounts of alpha particles which do not penetrate even a sheet of paper or the epidermis of human skin, and is therefore relatively invisible to common radiation detectors such as Geiger counters. This explained why tests conducted by doctors and Scotland Yard at the hospital with Geiger counters were negative. Both gamma rays and alpha particles are classified as ionizing radiation which can cause radiation damage. An alpha-emitting substance can cause significant damage only if ingested or inhaled, acting on living cells like a short-range weapon. Hours before his death, Litvinenko was tested for alpha-emitters using special equipment.\n\nShortly after his death, the UK's Health Protection Agency (HPA) said tests had established that Litvinenko had significant amounts of the radionuclide polonium-210 (Po) in his body. British and US government officials said the use of Po as a poison had never been documented before, and it was probably the first time anyone had been tested for the presence of Po in their body. The poison was in Litvinenko's cup of tea. Those who had contact with Litvinenko may also have been exposed to radiation.\n\nThe symptoms seen in Litvinenko appeared consistent with an administered activity of approximately 2 GBq (50 mCi) which corresponds to about 10 micrograms of Po. That is 200 times the median lethal dose of around 238 μCi or 50 nanograms in the case of ingestion.\n\nThe studies of the biodistribution of Po using gamma-ray spectrometry in post-mortem samples were\nused to estimate intake as 4.4 GBq.\n\nScotland Yard initially investigated claims that Litvinenko was poisoned with thallium. It was reported that early tests appeared to confirm the presence of the poison. Among the distinctive effects of thallium poisoning are hair loss and damage to peripheral nerves,<ref name=\"50/50\"></ref> and a photograph of Litvinenko in hospital, released to the media on his behalf, indeed showed his hair to have fallen out. Litvinenko attributed his initial survival to his cardiovascular fitness and swift medical treatment. It was later suggested a radioactive isotope of thallium might have been used to poison Litvinenko. Amit Nathwani, one of Litvinenko's physicians, said \"His symptoms are slightly odd for thallium poisoning, and the chemical levels of thallium we were able to detect are not the kind of levels you'd see in toxicity.\" Litvinenko's condition deteriorated, and he was moved into intensive care on 20 November. Hours before his death, three unidentified circular-shaped objects were found in his stomach via an X-ray scan. It is thought these objects were almost certainly shadows caused by the presence of Prussian blue, the treatment he had been given for thallium poisoning.\n\nLate on 22 November, Litvinenko's heart failed; the official time of death was 9:21 pm at University College Hospital in London.\n\nThe autopsy took place on 1 December.\nLitvinenko had ingested polonium-210, a poisonous radioactive isotope.\nMario Scaramella, who had eaten with Litvinenko, reported that doctors had told him the body had five times the lethal dose of polonium-210.\nLitvinenko's funeral took place on 7 December at the Central London mosque, after which his body was buried at Highgate Cemetery in North London.\n\nIn his last statement he said about Putin:\n\nGreater London's Metropolitan Police Service Terrorism Unit has been investigating the poisoning and death. The head of the Counter-Terrorism Unit, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke, stated the police \"will trace possible witnesses, examine Mr. Litvinenko's movements at relevant times, including when he first became ill and identify people he may have met. There will also be an extensive examination of CCTV footage.\"\nThe United Kingdom Government COBRA committee met to discuss the investigation. Richard Kolko from the United States FBI stated \"when requested by other nations, we provide assistance\" – referring to the FBI now joining the investigation for their expertise on radioactive weapons. The Metropolitan Police announced on 6 December 2006 that it was treating Litvinenko's death as murder. Interpol has also joined the investigation, providing \"speedy exchange of information\" between British, Russian and German police.\n\nDetectives traced three distinct polonium trails in and out of London, at three different dates, which according to the investigation suggests Andrey Lugovoy and Dmitry Kovtun made two failed attempts to administer polonium to Litvinenko before the final and successful one. The first attempt took place on 16 October 2006, when radioactive traces were found in all places visited by the FSB operatives before and after their meeting with Litvinenko. They administered the poison to his tea, but he did not drink it.\n\nApparently, Lugovoy and Kovtun did not fully realize they were handling a radioactive poison. Journalist Luke Harding described their behaviour as \"idiotic, verging on suicidal\"; while handling a leaky container, they stored it in their hotel rooms, used ordinary towels to clean up leaks, and eventually disposed of the poison in the toilet. On 17 October, perhaps realizing they contaminated their rooms, they prematurely checked out, moved to another hotel, and left London the next day.\n\nAnother unsuccessful assassination attempt took place on 25 October, when Lugovoy and Kovtun flew to London again. They left radioactive traces again in their hotel prior to meeting Litvinenko, but did not administer the poison, perhaps due to security cameras in the meeting room. They again disposed of the poison via their room's toilet, and left London.\n\nThe third attempt to poison Litvinenko took place at around 5 pm of 1 November in the Millennium Hotel in Grosvenor Square. The bus he travelled in to the hotel had no signs of radioactivity – but large amounts had been detected at the hotel. Polonium was subsequently found in a fourth-floor room and in a cup in the Pine Bar at the hotel. After the Millennium bar, Litvinenko stopped at the office of Boris Berezovsky. He used a fax machine, where radioactive contamination was found later. At 6 pm, Akhmed Zakayev picked Litvinenko up and brought him home to Muswell Hill. The amount of radioactivity left by Litvinenko in the car was so significant that the car was rendered unusable. Everything that he touched at home during the next three days was contaminated. His family was unable to return to the house even six months later. His wife tested positive for ingesting polonium, but did not leave a secondary trail behind her. This suggested that anyone who left a trail could not have picked up the polonium from Litvinenko (possibly, including Lugovoy and Kovtun). The patterns and levels of radioactivity the assassins left behind suggested that Litvinenko ingested polonium, whereas Lugovoy and Kovtun handled it directly. The human body dilutes polonium before excreting it in sweat, which results in a reduced radioactivity level. There were also traces of Po-210 found at the Hey Jo/Abracadabra bar, Dar Marrakesh restaurant, and Lambeth-Mercedes taxis.\n\nBesides Litvinenko, only two people left polonium trails: Lugovoy and Kovtun, who were school friends and worked previously for Russian intelligence in the KGB and the GRU, respectively. They left more significant traces of polonium than Litvinenko, indicating that they handled the radioactive material directly, and did not ingest it.\n\nLugovoy and Kovtun met Litvinenko in the Millennium hotel bar twice, on 1 November (when the poisoning took place), and earlier, on 16 October. Trails left by Lugovoy and Kovtun started on 16 October, in the same sushi bar where Litvinenko was poisoned later, but at a different table. It was assumed that their first meeting with Litvinenko was either a rehearsal of the future poisoning, or an unsuccessful attempt at the poisoning.\n\nTraces left by Lugovoy were also found in the office of Berezovsky that he visited on 31 October, a day before his second meeting with Litvinenko. Traces left by Kovtun were found in Hamburg, Germany. He left them on his way to London on 28 October. The traces were found in passenger jets BA875 and BA873 from Moscow to Heathrow on 25 and 31 October, as well as flights BA872 and BA874 from Heathrow to Moscow on 28 October and 3 November.\n\nAndrey Lugovoy has said he flew from London to Moscow on a 3 November flight. He stated he arrived in London on 31 October to attend the football match between Arsenal and CSKA Moscow on 1 November. When the news broke that a radioactive substance had been used to murder Litvinenko, a team of scientists rushed to find out how far the contamination had spread. It led them on a trail involving hundreds of people and dozens of locations.\n\nBritish Airways later published a list of 221 flights of the contaminated aircraft, involving around 33,000 passengers, and advised those potentially affected to contact the UK Department of Health for help. On 5 December, they issued an email to all of their customers, informing them that the aircraft had all been declared safe by the UK's Health Protection Agency and would be re-entering service.\n\nBritish authorities investigated the death and it was reported on 1 December that scientists at the Atomic Weapons Establishment had traced the source of the polonium to a nuclear power plant in Russia. On 3 December, reports stated that Britain had demanded the right to speak to at least five Russians implicated in Litvinenko's death, and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov asserted that Moscow was willing to answer \"concrete questions.\" Russian Prosecutor-General Yuri Chaika said on Tuesday 5 December that any Russian citizen who may be charged in the poisoning will be tried in Russia, not Britain. Moreover, Chaika stated that UK detectives may ask questions to Russian citizens only in the presence of Russian prosecutors.\n\nOn 28 May 2007, the British Foreign Office submitted a formal request to the Russian Government for the extradition of Andrey Lugovoy to the UK to face criminal charges relating to Litvinenko's murder.\n\nThe Russian General Prosecutor's Office declined to extradite Lugovoy, citing that extradition of citizens is not allowed under the Russian constitution (Article 61 of the Constitution of Russia). Russian authorities later said that Britain has not handed over any evidence against Lugovoy. Professor Daniel Tarschys, former Secretary General of the Council of Europe, commented that the Russian Constitution actually \"opens the door\" for the extradition, and Russia ratified three international treaties on extradition (on 10 December 1999); namely, the European Convention on Extradition and two Additional Protocols to it.\nYury Fedotov, Ambassador of the Russian Federation, pointed out that when the Russian Federation ratified the European Convention on Extradition it entered a declaration concerning Article 6 in these terms: \"The Russian Federation declares that in accordance with Article 61 (part 1) of the Constitution of the Russian Federation, a citizen of the Russian Federation may not be extradited to another state.\"\n\nOn 7 July 2008, a British security source told the BBC's \"Newsnight\" programme: \"We very strongly believe the Litvinenko case to have had some state involvement. There are very strong indications.\" The British government claimed that no intelligence or security officials were authorised to comment on the case.\n\nIn January 2016, a UK public inquiry, headed by Sir Robert Owen, found that Andrey Lugovoy and Dmitry Kovtun were responsible for the poisoning of Litvinenko. The inquiry also found that there was a strong probability that Lugovoy and Kovtun were acting under the direction of the FSB, and that their actions were probably approved by both Nikolai Patrushev, Director of the FSB, and President Vladimir Putin.\n\nOn 2 March 2007, Paul Joyal, a former director of security for the U.S. Senate intelligence committee, who the previous weekend alleged on national television that the Kremlin was involved in the poisoning of Litvinenko, was shot near his Maryland home. An FBI spokesman said the agency was \"assisting\" the police investigation into the shooting. Police would not confirm details of the shooting or of the condition of Joyal. A person familiar with the case said he was in critical condition in hospital. It was reported that while there were no indications that the shooting was linked to the Litvinenko case, it is unusual for the FBI to get involved in a local shooting incident. A person familiar with the situation said NBC had hired bodyguards for some of the journalists involved in the program.\n\nIn January 2007, the Polish newspaper \"Dziennik\" revealed that a target with a photo of Litvinenko on it was used for shooting practice by the \"Vityaz Training Centre\" in Balashikha in October 2002. The centre was not affiliated with the government and trained bodyguards, debt collectors and private security forces, although in November 2006 the centre was used by the Vityaz for a qualification examination due to their own centre being under renovation. The targets were photographed when the chairman of the Federation Council of Russia Sergei Mironov visited the centre on 7 November 2006.\n\nRadiation scientist Matthew Puncher, working with colleagues, calculated the amount of polonium inside Litvinenko's body following his death. In 2015 and 2016, he made work visits in Russia. He returned from Russia \"changed completely\" - deeply depressed and obsessed about his error in a software program. In May 2016, he was found dead in his home with multiple extensive wounds from two kitchen knives. There was no evidence of a disturbance or a struggle. Home Office pathologist Dr Nicholas Hunt could not entirely exclude that someone else had been involved but declared wounds were self-inflicted and a cause of death as haemorrhaging. Such suicides are extremely rare - in one study was 8 cases of multiple site wounds for 513,182 suicides.\n\nA freelance killer would probably not be able to manufacture polonium from commercially available products in the amounts used for Litvinenko's poisoning, because more than microscopic amounts of polonium can only be produced in state-regulated nuclear reactors., even though one might extract polonium from publicly available products, such as antistatic fans.\n\nAs production of polonium-210 was discontinued in most countries in late 2000s, all of the world's legal polonium-210 (Po) production occurs in Russia in RBMK reactors. About 85 grams (450,000 Ci) are produced by Russia annually for research and industrial purposes. According to Sergei Kiriyenko, the head of Russia's state atomic energy agency, RosAtom, around 0.8 grams per year is exported to U.S. companies through a single authorized supplier.\n\nThe production of polonium starts from bombardment of bismuth (Bi) with neutrons at the Mayak nuclear reactors in Ozersk, near the city of Chelyabinsk in Russia. The product is then transferred to the Avangard Electromechanical Plant in the closed city of Sarov. This of course does not exclude the possibility that the polonium that killed Litvinenko was imported by a licensed commercial distributor, but no one—including the Russian government—has proposed that this is likely, particularly in regard to the radiation detected on the British Airways passenger jets travelling between Moscow and London. Russian investigators have said they could not identify the source of polonium.\n\nPolonium-210 has a half-life of 138 days and decays to the stable daughter isotope of lead, Pb. Therefore, the source is reduced to about one sixteenth of its original radioactivity about 18 months after production. By measuring the proportion of polonium and lead in a sample, one can establish the production date of polonium. The analysis of impurities in the polonium (a kind of \"finger print\") allows identification of the place of production. The isotope used in killing of Litvinenko has been traced by a British theoretical physics professor Norman Dombey:\n\nIn addition, Dombey pointed out that Avangard delivers a metallic polonium, which must have been further processed into a solution as used in the Litvinenko assassination, involvement of an FSB poison laboratory was also likely.\n\nPhilip Walker, professor of physics at the University of Surrey said: \"This seems to have been a substance carefully chosen for its ability to be hard to detect in a person who has ingested it.\" Oleg Gordievsky, the most senior KGB agent ever to defect to Britain, made a similar comment\nthat Litvinenko's assassination was carefully prepared and rehearsed by Russian secret services, but the poisoners were unaware that technology existed to detect traces left by polonium-210: \"Did you know that polonium-210 leaves traces? I didn’t. And no one did. ...what they didn’t know was that this equipment, this technology exists in the West – they didn’t know that, and that was where they miscalculated.\"\n\nNick Priest, a nuclear scientist and expert on polonium who has worked at most of Russia's nuclear research facilities, says that although the execution of the plot was a \"bout of stupidity\", the choice of polonium was a \"stroke of genius.\" He says: \"the choice of poison was genius in that polonium, carried in a vial in water, can be carried in a pocket through airport screening devices without setting off any alarms\", adding, \"once administered, the polonium creates symptoms that don't suggest poison for days, allowing time for the perpetrator to make a getaway.\" Priest asserts that \"whoever did it was probably not an expert in radiation protection, so they probably didn't realize how much contamination you can get just by opening the top (of the vial) and closing it again. With the right equipment, you can detect just one count per second.\" \n\nFilmmaker and friend of Litvinenko Andrei Nekrasov has suggested that the poison was \"sadistically designed to trigger a slow, tortuous and spectacular demise.\" Expert on Russia Paul Joyal suggested that \"A message has been communicated to anyone who wants to speak out against the Kremlin... If you do, no matter who you are, where you are, we will find you, and we will silence you, in the most horrible way possible.\" \n\nThe poisoning of Litvinenko immediately led to the suspicion that he was killed by Russian secret services.\nViktor Ilyukhin, a deputy chairman of the Russian Parliament's security committee for the Communist Party of the Russian Federation, said that he \"can’t exclude that possibility.\"\nHe apparently referred to a recent Russian counter-terrorism law that gives the President the right to order such actions.\nAn investigator of the Russian apartment bombings, Mikhail Trepashkin, wrote in a letter from prison that an FSB team had organised in 2002 to kill Litvinenko. He also reported FSB plans to kill relatives of Litvinenko in Moscow in 2002, although these have not been carried out. State Duma member Sergei Abeltsev commented on 24 November 2006: \"The deserved punishment reached the traitor. I am confident that this terrible death will be a serious warning to traitors of all colors, wherever they are located: In Russia, they do not pardon treachery. I would recommend citizen Berezovsky to avoid any food at the commemoration for his accomplice Litvinenko.\"\n\nMany publications in Russian media suggested that the death of Litvinenko was connected to Boris Berezovsky. Former FSB chief Nikolay Kovalyov, for whom Litvinenko worked, said that the incident \"looks like [the] hand of Berezovsky. I am sure that no kind of intelligence services participated.\" This involvement of Berezovsky was alleged by numerous Russian television shows.\n\nShortly after the incident, Russian government dismissed theories of FSB involvement in the assassination using the argument that Litvinenko was \"not important\" and \"mentally unstable\", implying that the government had no interest in killing such an insignificant figure. However, Eduard Limonov observed that the same argument was raised after assassination of Anna Politkovskaya, and described Litvinenko death as \"very public execution.\" \n\nAn explanation put forward by the Russian Government appeared to be that the deaths of Litvinenko and Politkovskaya were intended to embarrass President Putin. Other theories included involvement of rogue FSB members or suggestions that Litvinenko was killed because of his research of certain Russian corporations or state officials, or as a political intrigue to undermine president Putin.\n\nIn April 2018, Litvinenko's father Walter told RT News that, although he first thought the Russian government was behind the poisoning, his son's poisoning was \"a widely publicized false-flag operation to show the world that Moscow was extremely \"cruel,\" and the way that it allegedly \"deals with its enemies.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nExtradition requests had been granted in the past (For example, in 2002 Murad Garabayev has been handed to Turkmenistan., Garabayev's extradition was later found unlawful by the Russian courts and he was awarded 20,000 Euros in damages to be paid by the Russian government by the European Court of Human Rights.) Article 63 does not explicitly mention Russian citizens, and therefore does not apply to them, but only to foreign nationals living in Russia. Article 61 supersedes it for the people holding the Russian citizenship.\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to the IAEA, in 1960, a person ingested 74 MBq of radium (assumed to be Ra) and this person died four years later. Harold McCluskey survived 11 years (eventually dying from cardio respiratory failure) after an intake of at least 37 MBq of Am (He was exposed in 1976). It is estimated that he suffered doses of 18 Gy to his bone mass, 520 Gy to the bone surface, 8 Gy to the liver and 1.6 Gy to the lungs; it is also claimed that a post mortem examination revealed no signs of cancer in his body. The October 1983 issue of the journal \"Health Physics\" was dedicated to McCluskey, and subsequent papers about him appeared in the September 1995 issue.\n\nComparisons have been made to the alleged 2004 poisoning of Viktor Yushchenko, the alleged 2003 poisoning of Yuri Shchekochikhin and the fatal 1978 poisoning of the journalist Georgi Markov by the Bulgarian Committee for State Security. The incident with Litvinenko has also attracted comparisons to the poisoning by radioactive (unconfirmed) thallium of KGB defector Nikolay Khokhlov and journalist Shchekochikhin of \"Novaya Gazeta\" (the \"Novaya Gazeta\" interview with the former, coincidentally, prepared by Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya, who was later found shot to death in her apartment building). Like Litvinenko, Shchekochikhin had investigated the Russian apartment bombings (he was a member of the Kovalev Commission that hired Litvinenko's friend Mikhail Trepashkin as a legal counsel).\n\nKGB defector and British agent Oleg Gordievsky believes the murders of Zelimkhan Yandarbiev, Shchekochikhin, and Politkovskaya and the incident with Litvinenko show that the FSB has returned to the practice of political assassinations, which were conducted in the past by Thirteenth Department of the KGB. A comparison was also made with Roman Tsepov who was responsible for personal protection of Anatoly Sobchak and Putin, and who died in Russia in 2004 from poisoning by an unknown radioactive substance.\n\nOfficers of FSB \"special forces\" liked to use Litvinenko photos for target practice in shooting galleries, according to Russian journalist Yulia Latynina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6064431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6064431", "title": "Prego v. City of New York", "text": "Prego v. City of New York\n\nVeronica Prego v. City of New York et al. was a $175 million negligence lawsuit filed in 1988 by a medical doctor, Verónica Prego, against the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, Dr. Joyce F. Fogel and Dr. Sheldon H. Landesman. Prego contracted HIV in 1983 when she was working as an extern at Kings County Hospital Center. In her lawsuit she contended that she was infected with the virus by pricking her finger on an infected needle at the hospital. According to Prego the needle was improperly disposed of by Dr. Fogel after being used on an AIDS patient. The defense contended that Dr. Prego had drawn the infected blood herself and had caused the accident on her own. \n\nIn March 1990, just before summations to the jury would have been held, she suddenly dropped her lawsuit, settling out-of-court without a public acknowledgement of negligence from the defendants and for what was initially an undisclosed sum of money. The judge later disclosed that $1.35 million was awarded to Prego in the settlement.\n\nThe same year Prego contracted HIV, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that HIV was transmitted by blood and cautioned hospitals to implement precautionary measures to protect employees from exposure to blood. Prego's case focussed public attention to the issue, and continues to be mentioned in reference works that deal with hospital safety and AIDS in the workplace related issues.\n"}
{"id": "1032780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1032780", "title": "Preventive healthcare", "text": "Preventive healthcare\n\nPreventive healthcare (alternately preventive medicine, preventative healthcare/medicine, or prophylaxis) consists of measures taken for disease prevention, as opposed to disease treatment. Just as health comprises a variety of physical and mental states, so do disease and disability, which are affected by environmental factors, genetic predisposition, disease agents, and lifestyle choices. Health, disease, and disability are dynamic processes which begin before individuals realize they are affected. Disease prevention relies on anticipatory actions that can be categorized as primal, primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention.\n\nEach year, millions of people die of preventable deaths. A 2004 study showed that about half of all deaths in the United States in 2000 were due to preventable behaviors and exposures. Leading causes included cardiovascular disease, chronic respiratory disease, unintentional injuries, diabetes, and certain infectious diseases. This same study estimates that 400,000 people die each year in the United States due to poor diet and a sedentary lifestyle. According to estimates made by the World Health Organization (WHO), about 55 million people died worldwide in 2011, two thirds of this group from non-communicable diseases, including cancer, diabetes, and chronic cardiovascular and lung diseases. This is an increase from the year 2000, during which 60% of deaths were attributed to these diseases. Preventive healthcare is especially important given the worldwide rise in prevalence of chronic diseases and deaths from these diseases.\n\nThere are many methods for prevention of disease. It is recommended that adults and children aim to visit their doctor for regular check-ups, even if they feel healthy, to perform disease screening, identify risk factors for disease, discuss tips for a healthy and balanced lifestyle, stay up to date with immunizations and boosters, and maintain a good relationship with a healthcare provider. Some common disease screenings include checking for hypertension (high blood pressure), hyperglycemia (high blood sugar, a risk factor for diabetes mellitus), hypercholesterolemia (high blood cholesterol), screening for colon cancer, depression, HIV and other common types of sexually transmitted disease such as chlamydia, syphilis, and gonorrhea, mammography (to screen for breast cancer), colorectal cancer screening, a Pap test (to check for cervical cancer), and screening for osteoporosis. Genetic testing can also be performed to screen for mutations that cause genetic disorders or predisposition to certain diseases such as breast or ovarian cancer. However, these measures are not affordable for every individual and the cost effectiveness of preventive healthcare is still a topic of debate.\n\nPreventive healthcare strategies are described as taking place at the primal, primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention levels. \nIn the 1940s, Hugh R. Leavell and E. Gurney Clark coined the term primary prevention. They worked at the Harvard and Columbia University Schools of Public Health, respectively, and later expanded the levels to include secondary and tertiary prevention. Goldston (1987) notes that these levels might be better described as \"prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation\", though the terms primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention are still in use today. The concept of primal prevention has been created much more recently, in relation to the new developments in molecular biology over the last fifty years , more particularly in epigenetics, which point to the paramount importance of environmental conditions - both physical and affective - on the organism during its fetal and newborn life (or so-called primal life).\n\nA separate category of \"health promotion\" has recently been propounded. This health promotion \"par excellence\" is based on the 'new knowledge' in molecular biology, in particular on epigenetic knowledge, which points to how much affective - as well as physical - environment during fetal and newborn life may determine each and every aspect of adult health.. This new way of promoting health is now commonly called primal prevention. It consists mainly in providing future parents with pertinent, unbiased information on \"primal health\" and supporting them during their child's \"primal period of life\" (i.e., \"from conception to first anniversary\" according to definition by the Primal Health Research Centre, London). This includes adequate parental leave - ideally for both parents - with kin caregiving and financial help where needed.\n\nAnother related concept is primordial prevention which refers to all measures designed to prevent the development of risk factors in the first place, early in life.\n\nPrimary prevention consists of traditional \"health promotion\" and \"specific protection.\" Health promotion activities are current, non-clinical life choices. For example, eating nutritious meals and exercising daily, that both prevent disease and create a sense of overall well-being. Preventing disease and creating overall well-being, prolongs our life expectancy. Health-promotional activities do not target a specific disease or condition but rather promote health and well-being on a very general level. On the other hand, specific protection targets a type or group of diseases and complements the goals of health promotion.\n\nFood is very much the most basic tool in preventive health care. The 2011 National Health Interview Survey performed by the Centers for Disease Control was the first national survey to include questions about ability to pay for food. Difficulty with paying for food, medicine, or both is a problem facing 1 out of 3 Americans. If better food options were available through food banks, soup kitchens, and other resources for low-income people, obesity and the chronic conditions that come along with it would be better controlled A \"food desert\" is an area with restricted access to healthy foods due to a lack of supermarkets within a reasonable distance. These are often low-income neighborhoods with the majority of residents lacking transportation . There have been several grassroots movements in the past 20 years to encourage urban gardening, such as the GreenThumb organization in New York City. Urban gardening uses vacant lots to grow food for a neighborhood and is cultivated by the local residents. Mobile fresh markets are another resource for residents in a \"food desert\", which are specially outfitted buses bringing affordable fresh fruits and vegetables to low-income neighborhoods. These programs often hold educational events as well such as cooking and nutrition guidance. Programs such as these are helping to provide healthy, affordable foods to the people who need them the most.\n\nScientific advancements in genetics have significantly contributed to the knowledge of hereditary diseases and have facilitated great progress in specific protective measures in individuals who are carriers of a disease gene or have an increased predisposition to a specific disease. Genetic testing has allowed physicians to make quicker and more accurate diagnoses and has allowed for tailored treatments or personalized medicine. Similarly, specific protective measures such as water purification, sewage treatment, and the development of personal hygienic routines (such as regular hand-washing) became mainstream upon the discovery of infectious disease agents such as bacteria. These discoveries have been instrumental in decreasing the rates of communicable diseases that are often spread in unsanitary conditions. Preventing #Sexually transmitted infections is another form of primary prevention.\n\nSecondary prevention deals with latent diseases and attempts to prevent an asymptomatic disease from progressing to symptomatic disease. Certain diseases can be classified as primary or secondary. This depends on definitions of what constitutes a disease, though, in general, primary prevention addresses the root cause of a disease or injury whereas secondary prevention aims to detect and treat a disease early on. Secondary prevention consists of \"early diagnosis and prompt treatment\" to contain the disease and prevent its spread to other individuals, and \"disability limitation\" to prevent potential future complications and disabilities from the disease. For example, early diagnosis and prompt treatment for a syphilis patient would include a course of antibiotics to destroy the pathogen and screening and treatment of any infants born to syphilitic mothers. Disability limitation for syphilitic patients includes continued check-ups on the heart, cerebrospinal fluid, and central nervous system of patients to curb any damaging effects such as blindness or paralysis.\n\nFinally, tertiary prevention attempts to reduce the damage caused by symptomatic disease by focusing on mental, physical, and social rehabilitation. Unlike secondary prevention, which aims to prevent disability, the objective of tertiary prevention is to maximize the remaining capabilities and functions of an already disabled patient. Goals of tertiary prevention include: preventing pain and damage, halting progression and complications from disease, and restoring the health and functions of the individuals affected by disease. For syphilitic patients, rehabilitation includes measures to prevent complete disability from the disease, such as implementing work-place adjustments for the blind and paralyzed or providing counseling to restore normal daily functions to the greatest extent possible.\n\nThe leading cause of death in the United States was tobacco. However, poor diet and lack of exercise may soon surpass tobacco as a leading cause of death. These behaviors are modifiable and public health and prevention efforts could make a difference to reduce these deaths.\n\nThe leading causes of preventable death worldwide share similar trends to the United States. There are a few differences between the two, such as malnutrition, pollution, and unsafe sanitation, that reflect health disparities between the developing and developed world.\nIn 2010, 7.6 million children died before reaching the age of 5. While this is a decrease from 9.6 million in the year 2000, it is still far from the fourth Millennium Development Goal to decrease child mortality by two-thirds by the year 2015. Of these deaths, about 64% were due to infection (including diarrhea, pneumonia, and malaria). About 40% of these deaths occurred in neonates (children ages 1–28 days) due to pre-term birth complications. The highest number of child deaths occurred in Africa and Southeast Asia. In Africa, almost no progress has been made in reducing neonatal death since 1990. India, Nigeria, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Pakistan, and China contributed to almost 50% of global child deaths in 2010. Targeting efforts in these countries is essential to reducing the global child death rate.\n\nChild mortality is caused by a variety of factors including poverty, environmental hazards, and lack of maternal education. The World Health Organization created a list of interventions in the following table that were judged economically and operationally \"feasible,\" based on the healthcare resources and infrastructure in 42 nations that contribute to 90% of all infant and child deaths. The table indicates how many infant and child deaths could have been prevented in the year 2000, assuming universal healthcare coverage.\n\nObesity is a major risk factor for a wide variety of conditions including cardiovascular diseases, hypertension, certain cancers, and type 2 diabetes. In order to prevent obesity, it is recommended that individuals adhere to a consistent exercise regimen as well as a nutritious and balanced diet. A healthy individual should aim for acquiring 10% of their energy from proteins, 15-20% from fat, and over 50% from complex carbohydrates, while avoiding alcohol as well as foods high in fat, salt, and sugar. Sedentary adults should aim for at least half an hour of moderate-level daily physical activity and eventually increase to include at least 20 minutes of intense exercise, three times a week. Preventive health care offers many benefits to those that chose to participate in taking an active role in the culture. The medical system in our society is geared toward curing acute symptoms of disease after the fact that they have brought us into the emergency room. An ongoing epidemic within American culture is the prevalence of obesity. Eating healthier and routinely exercising plays a huge role in reducing an individuals risk for type 2 diabetes. About 23.6 million people in the United States have diabetes. Of those, 17.9 million are diagnosed and 5.7 million are undiagnosed. Ninety to 95 percent of people with diabetes have type 2 diabetes. Diabetes is the main cause of kidney failure, limb amputation, and new-onset blindness in American adults.\n\nSexually transmitted infections (STIs), such as syphilis and HIV, are common but preventable with safe-sex practices. STIs can be asymptomatic, or cause a range of symptoms. Preventive measures include the use of condoms dental dams, latex gloves, and education on how to use them; testing partners before having unprotected sex; receiving regular STI screenings, to both receive treatment and prevent spreading STIs to partners; and, specifically for HIV, regularly taking prophylactic antiretroviral drugs, such as Truvada. Post-exposure prophylaxis, started within 72 hours (optimally less than 1 hour) after exposure to high-risk fluids, can also protect against HIV transmission.\n\nThrombosis is a serious circulatory disease affecting thousands, usually older persons undergoing surgical procedures, women taking oral contraceptives and travelers. Consequences of thrombosis can be heart attacks and strokes. Prevention can include: exercise, anti-embolism stockings, pneumatic devices, and pharmacological treatments.\n\nIn recent years, cancer has become a global problem. Low and middle income countries share a majority of the cancer burden largely due to exposure to carcinogens resulting from industrialization and globalization. However, primary prevention of cancer and knowledge of cancer risk factors can reduce over one third of all cancer cases. Primary prevention of cancer can also prevent other diseases, both communicable and non-communicable, that share common risk factors with cancer.\n\nLung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths in the United States and Europe and is a major cause of death in other countries. Tobacco is an environmental carcinogen and the major underlying cause of lung cancer. Between 25% and 40% of all cancer deaths and about 90% of lung cancer cases are associated with tobacco use. Other carcinogens include asbestos and radioactive materials. Both smoking and second-hand exposure from other smokers can lead to lung cancer and eventually death. Therefore, prevention of tobacco use is paramount to prevention of lung cancer.\n\nIndividual, community, and statewide interventions can prevent or cease tobacco use. 90% of adults in the US who have ever smoked did so prior to the age of 20. In-school prevention/educational programs, as well as counseling resources, can help prevent and cease adolescent smoking. Other cessation techniques include group support programs, nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), hypnosis, and self-motivated behavioral change. Studies have shown long term success rates (>1 year) of 20% for hypnosis and 10%-20% for group therapy.\n\nCancer screening programs serve as effective sources of secondary prevention. The Mayo Clinic, Johns Hopkins, and Memorial Sloan-Kettering hospitals conducted annual x-ray screenings and sputum cytology tests and found that lung cancer was detected at higher rates, earlier stages, and had more favorable treatment outcomes, which supports widespread investment in such programs.\n\nLegislation can also affect smoking prevention and cessation. In 1992, Massachusetts (United States) voters passed a bill adding an extra 25 cent tax to each pack of cigarettes, despite intense lobbying and a $7.3 million spent by the tobacco industry to oppose this bill. Tax revenue goes toward tobacco education and control programs and has led to a decline of tobacco use in the state.\n\nLung cancer and tobacco smoking are increasing worldwide, especially in China. China is responsible for about one-third of the global consumption and production of tobacco products. Tobacco control policies have been ineffective as China is home to 350 million regular smokers and 750 million passive smokers and the annual death toll is over 1 million. Recommended actions to reduce tobacco use include: decreasing tobacco supply, increasing tobacco taxes, widespread educational campaigns, decreasing advertising from the tobacco industry, and increasing tobacco cessation support resources. In Wuhan, China, a 1998 school-based program, implemented an anti-tobacco curriculum for adolescents and reduced the number of regular smokers, though it did not significantly decrease the number of adolescents who initiated smoking. This program was therefore effective in secondary but not primary prevention and shows that school-based programs have the potential to reduce tobacco use.\n\nSkin cancer is the most common cancer in the United States. The most lethal form of skin cancer, melanoma, leads to over 50,000 annual deaths in the United States. Childhood prevention is particularly important because a significant portion of ultraviolet radiation exposure from the sun occurs during childhood and adolescence and can subsequently lead to skin cancer in adulthood. Furthermore, childhood prevention can lead to the development of healthy habits that continue to prevent cancer for a lifetime.\n\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends several primary prevention methods including: limiting sun exposure between 10 AM and 4 PM, when the sun is strongest, wearing tighter-weave natural cotton clothing, wide-brim hats, and sunglasses as protective covers, using sunscreens that protect against both UV-A and UV-B rays, and avoiding tanning salons. Sunscreen should be reapplied after sweating, exposure to water (through swimming for example) or after several hours of sun exposure. Since skin cancer is very preventable, the CDC recommends school-level prevention programs including preventive curricula, family involvement, participation and support from the school's health services, and partnership with community, state, and national agencies and organizations to keep children away from excessive UV radiation exposure.\n\nMost skin cancer and sun protection data comes from Australia and the United States. An international study reported that Australians tended to demonstrate higher knowledge of sun protection and skin cancer knowledge, compared to other countries. Of children, adolescents, and adults, sunscreen was the most commonly used skin protection. However, many adolescents purposely used sunscreen with a low sun protection factor (SPF)in order to get a tan. Various Australian studies have shown that many adults failed to use sunscreen correctly; many applied sunscreen well after their initial sun exposure and/or failed to reapply when necessary. A 2002 case-control study in Brazil showed that only 3% of case participants and 11% of control participants used sunscreen with SPF >15.\n\nCervical cancer ranks among the top three most common cancers among women in Latin America, sub-Saharan Africa, and parts of Asia. Cervical cytology screening aims to detect abnormal lesions in the cervix so that women can undergo treatment prior to the development of cancer. Given that high quality screening and follow-up care has been shown to reduce cervical cancer rates by up to 80%, most developed countries now encourage sexually active women to undergo a Pap test every 3–5 years. Finland and Iceland have developed effective organized programs with routine monitoring and have managed to significantly reduce cervical cancer mortality while using fewer resources than unorganized, opportunistic programs such as those in the United States or Canada.\n\nIn developing nations in Latin America, such as Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, and Cuba, both public and privately organized programs have offered women routine cytological screening since the 1970s. However, these efforts have not resulted in a significant change in cervical cancer incidence or mortality in these nations. This is likely due to low quality, inefficient testing. However, Puerto Rico, which has offered early screening since the 1960s, has witnessed an almost a 50% decline in cervical cancer incidence and almost a four-fold decrease in mortality between 1950 and 1990.\nBrazil, Peru, India, and several high-risk nations in sub-Saharan Africa which lack organized screening programs, have a high incidence of cervical cancer.\n\nColorectal cancer is globally the second most common cancer in women and the third-most common in men, and the fourth most common cause of cancer death after lung, stomach, and liver cancer, having caused 715,000 deaths in 2010.\n\nIt is also highly preventable; about 80 percent of colorectal cancers begin as benign growths, commonly called polyps, which can be easily detected and removed during a colonoscopy. Other methods of screening for polyps and cancers include fecal occult blood testing. Lifestyle changes that may reduce the risk of colorectal cancer include increasing consumption of whole grains, fruits and vegetables, and reducing consumption of red meat (see Colorectal cancer).\n\nAccess to healthcare and preventive health services is unequal, as is the quality of care received. A study conducted by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ)revealed health disparities in the United States. In the United States, elderly adults (>65 years old)received worse care and had less access to care than their younger counterparts. The same trends are seen when comparing all racial minorities (black, Hispanic, Asian) to white patients, and low-income people to high-income people. Common barriers to accessing and utilizing healthcare resources included lack of income and education, language barriers, and lack of health insurance. Minorities were less likely than whites to possess health insurance, as were individuals who completed less education. These disparities made it more difficult for the disadvantaged groups to have regular access to a primary care provider, receive immunizations, or receive other types of medical care. Additionally, uninsured people tend to not seek care until their diseases progress to chronic and serious states and they are also more likely to forgo necessary tests, treatments, and filling prescription medications.\n\nThese sorts of disparities and barriers exist worldwide as well. Often, there are decades of gaps in life expectancy between developing and developed countries. For example, Japan has an average life expectancy that is 36 years greater than that in Malawi. Low-income countries also tend to have fewer physicians than high-income countries. In Nigeria and Myanmar, there are fewer than 4 physicians per 100,000 people while Norway and Switzerland have a ratio that is ten-fold higher. Common barriers worldwide include lack of availability of health services and healthcare providers in the region, great physical distance between the home and health service facilities, high transportation costs, high treatment costs, and social norms and stigma toward accessing certain health services.\n\nWith lifestyle factors such as diet and exercise rising to the top of preventable death statistics, the economics of healthy lifestyle is a growing concern. There is little question that positive lifestyle choices provide an investment in health throughout life. To gauge success, traditional measures such as the quality years of life method (QALY), show great value. However, that method does not account for the cost of chronic conditions or future lost earnings because of poor health. Developing future economic models that would guide both private and public investments as well as drive future policy to evaluate the efficacy of positive lifestyle choices on health is a major topic for economists globally.\n\nAmericans spend over three trillion a year on health care but have a higher rate of infant mortality, shorter life expectancies, and a higher rate of diabetes than other high-income nations because of negative lifestyle choices. Despite these large costs, very little is spent on prevention for lifestyle-caused conditions in comparison. The Journal of American Medical Association estimates that $101 billion was spent in 2013 on the preventable disease of diabetes, and another $88 billion was spent on heart disease. In an effort to encourage healthy lifestyle choices, workplace wellness programs are on the rise; but the economics and effectiveness data are still continuing to evolve and develop.\n\nHealth insurance coverage impacts lifestyle choices. In a study by Sudano and Baker, even intermittent loss of coverage has negative effects on healthy choices. The potential repeal of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) could significantly impact coverage for many Americans, as well as “The Prevention and Public Health Fund” which is our nation’s first and only mandatory funding stream dedicated to improving the public’s health. Also covered in the ACA is counseling on lifestyle prevention issues, such as weight management, alcohol use, and treatment for depression. Policy makers can have substantial effects on the lifestyle choices made by Americans.\n\nBecause chronic illnesses predominate as a cause of death in the US and pathways for treating chronic illnesses are complex and multifaceted, prevention is a best practice approach to chronic disease when possible. In many cases, prevention requires mapping complex pathways to determine the ideal point for intervention. In addition to efficacy, prevention is considered a cost-saving measure. Cost-effectiveness analysis of prevention is achievable, but impacted by the length of time it takes to see effects/outcomes of intervention. This makes prevention efforts difficult to fund—particularly in strained financial contexts. Prevention potentially creates other costs as well, due to extending the lifespan and thereby increasing opportunities for illness. In order to establish reliable economics of prevention for illnesses that are complicated in origin, knowing how best to assess prevention efforts, i.e. developing useful measures and appropriate scope, is required.\n\nOverview\n\nThere is no general consensus as to whether or not preventive healthcare measures are cost-effective, but they increase the quality of life dramatically. There are varying views on what constitutes a \"good investment.\" Some argue that preventive health measures should save more money than they cost, when factoring in treatment costs in the absence of such measures. Others argue in favor of \"good value\" or conferring significant health benefits even if the measures do not save money Furthermore, preventive health services are often described as one entity though they comprise a myriad of different services, each of which can individually lead to net costs, savings, or neither. Greater differentiation of these services is necessary to fully understand both the financial and health effects.\n\nA 2010 study reported that in the United States, vaccinating children, cessation of smoking, daily prophylactic use of aspirin, and screening of breast and colorectal cancers had the most potential to prevent premature death. Preventive health measures that resulted in savings included vaccinating children and adults, smoking cessation, daily use of aspirin, and screening for issues with alcoholism, obesity, and vision failure. These authors estimated that if usage of these services in the United States increased to 90% of the population, there would be net savings of $3.7 billion, which comprised only about -0.2% of the total 2006 United States healthcare expenditure. Despite the potential for decreasing healthcare spending, utilization of healthcare resources in the United States still remains low, especially among Latinos and African-Americans. Overall, preventive services are difficult to implement because healthcare providers have limited time with patients and must integrate a variety of preventive health measures from different sources.\n\nWhile these specific services bring about small net savings not every preventive health measure saves more than it costs. A 1970s study showed that preventing heart attacks by treating hypertension early on with drugs actually did not save money in the long run. The money saved by evading treatment from heart attack and stroke only amounted to about a quarter of the cost of the drugs. Similarly, it was found that the cost of drugs or dietary changes to decrease high blood cholesterol exceeded the cost of subsequent heart disease treatment. Due to these findings, some argue that rather than focusing healthcare reform efforts exclusively on preventive care, the interventions that bring about the highest level of health should be prioritized.\n\nCohen et al. (2008) outline a few arguments made by skeptics of preventive healthcare. Many argue that preventive measures only cost less than future treatment when the proportion of the population that would become ill in the absence of prevention is fairly large. The Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group conducted a 2012 study evaluating the costs and benefits (in quality-adjusted life-years or QALY's) of lifestyle changes versus taking the drug metformin. They found that neither method brought about financial savings, but were cost-effective nonetheless because they brought about an increase in QALY's. In addition to scrutinizing costs, preventive healthcare skeptics also examine efficiency of interventions. They argue that while many treatments of existing diseases involve use of advanced equipment and technology, in some cases, this is a more efficient use of resources than attempts to prevent the disease. Cohen et al. (2008) suggest that the preventive measures most worth exploring and investing in are those that could benefit a large portion of the population to bring about cumulative and widespread health benefits at a reasonable cost.\n\nThere are at least four nationally implemented childhood obesity interventions in the United States: the Sugar-Sweetened Beverage excise tax (SSB), the TV AD program, active physical education (Active PE) policies, and early care and education (ECE) policies. They each have similar goals of reducing childhood obesity. The effects of these interventions on BMI have been studied, and the cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) has led to a better understanding of projected cost reductions and improved health outcomes. The Childhood Obesity Intervention Cost-Effectiveness Study (CHOICES) was conducted to evaluate and compare the CEA of these four interventions.\n\nGortmaker, S.L. et al. (2015) states: \"The four initial interventions were selected by the investigators to represent a broad range of nationally scalable strategies to reduce childhood obesity using a mix of both policy and programmatic strategies... 1. an excise tax of $0.01 per ounce of sweetened beverages, applied nationally and administered at the state level (SSB), 2. elimination of the tax deductibility of advertising costs of TV advertisements for \"nutritionally poor\" foods and beverages seen by children and adolescents (TV AD), 3. state policy requiring all public elementary schools in which physical education (PE) is currently provided to devote ≥50% of PE class time to moderate and vigorous physical activity (Active PE), and 4. state policy to make early child educational settings healthier by increasing physical activity, improving nutrition, and reducing screen time (ECE).\"\n\nThe CHOICES found that SSB, TV AD, and ECE led to net cost savings. Both SSB and TV AD increased quality adjusted life years and produced yearly tax revenue of 12.5 billion US dollars and 80 million US dollars, respectively.\n\nSome challenges with evaluating the effectiveness of child obesity interventions include:\nThe cost-effectiveness of preventive care is a highly debated topic. While some economists argue that preventive care is valuable and potentially cost saving, others believe it is an inefficient waste of resources. Preventive care is composed of a variety of clinical services and programs including annual doctor’s check-ups, annual immunizations, and wellness programs. Recent models show that these simple interventions can have significant impacts.\n\n\"Clinical Preventive Services & Programs\"\n\nResearch on preventive care addresses the question of whether it is cost saving or cost effective and whether there is an economics evidence base for health promotion and disease prevention. The need for and interest in preventive care is driven by the imperative to reduce health care costs while improving quality of care and the patient experience. Preventive care can lead to improved health outcomes and cost savings potential. Services such as health assessments/screenings, prenatal care, and telehealth and telemedicine can reduce morbidity or mortality with low cost or cost savings. Specifically, health assessments/screenings have cost savings potential, with varied cost-effectiveness based on screening and assessment type. Inadequate prenatal care can lead to an increased risk of prematurity, stillbirth, and infant death. Time is the ultimate resource and preventive care can help mitigate the time costs. Telehealth and telemedicine is one option that has gained consumer interest, acceptance and confidence and can improve quality of care and patient satisfaction.\n\n\"Understanding the Economics for Investment\"\n\nThere are benefits and trade-offs when considering investment in preventive care versus other types of clinical services. Preventive care can be a good investment as supported by the evidence base and can drive population health management objectives. The concepts of cost saving and cost-effectiveness are different and both are relevant to preventive care. For example, preventive care that may not save money may still provide health benefits. Thus, there is a need to compare interventions relative to impact on health and cost.\n\nPreventive care transcends demographics and is applicable to people of every age. The Health Capital Theory underpins the importance of preventive care across the lifecycle and provides a framework for understanding the variances in health and health care that are experienced. It treats health as a stock that provides direct utility. Health depreciates with age and the aging process can be countered through health investments. The theory further supports that individuals demand good health, that the demand for health investment is a derived demand (i.e. investment is health is due to the underlying demand for good health), and the efficiency of the health investment process increases with knowledge (i.e. it is assumed that the more educated are more efficient consumers and producers of health).\n\nThe prevalence elasticity of demand for prevention can also provide insights into the economics. Demand for preventive care can alter the prevalence rate of a given disease and further reduce or even reverse any further growth of prevalence. Reduction in prevalence subsequently leads to reduction in costs.\n\n\"Economics for Policy Action\"\n\nThere are a number of organizations and policy actions that are relevant when discussing the economics of preventive care services. The evidence base, viewpoints, and policy briefs from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and efforts by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) all provide examples that improve the health and well-being of populations (e.g. preventive health assessments/screenings, prenatal care, and telehealth/telemedicine). The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA, ACA) has major influence on the provision of preventive care services, although it is currently under heavy scrutiny and review by the new administration. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the ACA makes preventive care affordable and accessible through mandatory coverage of preventive services without a deductible, copayment, coinsurance, or other cost sharing.\n\nThe U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF), a panel of national experts in prevention and evidence-based medicine, works to improve health of Americans by making evidence-based recommendations about clinical preventive services. They do not consider the cost of a preventive service when determining a recommendation. Each year, the organization delivers a report to Congress that identifies critical evidence gaps in research and recommends priority areas for further review.\n\nThe National Network of Perinatal Quality Collaboratives (NNPQC), sponsored by the CDC, supports state-based perinatal quality collaboratives (PQCs) in measuring and improving upon health care and health outcomes for mothers and babies. These PQCs have contributed to improvements such as reduction in deliveries before 39 weeks, reductions in healthcare associated blood stream infections, and improvements in the utilization of antenatal corticosteroids.\n\nTelehealth and telemedicine has realized significant growth and development recently. The Center for Connected Health Policy (The National Telehealth Policy Resource Center) has produced multiple reports and policy briefs on the topic of Telehealth and Telemedicine and how they contribute to preventive services.\n\nPolicy actions and provision of preventive services do not guarantee utilization. Reimbursement has remained a significant barrier to adoption due to variances in payer and state level reimbursement policies and guidelines through government and commercial payers. Americans use preventive services at about half the recommended rate and cost-sharing, such as deductibles, co-insurance, or copayments, also reduce the likelihood that preventive services will be used. Further, despite the ACA’s enhancement of Medicare benefits and preventive services, there were no effects on preventive service utilization, calling out the fact that other fundamental barriers exist.\nThe Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also known as just the Affordable Care Act or Obamacare was passed and became law in the United States on March 23, 2010. The finalized and newly ratified law was to address many issues in the U.S. healthcare system, which included expansion of coverage, insurance market reforms, better quality, and the forecast of efficiency and costs. Under the insurance market reforms the act required that insurance companies no longer exclude people with pre-existing conditions, allow for children to be covered on their parents plan until the age of 26, expand appeals that dealt with reimbursement denials. The Affordable Care Act also banned the limited coverage imposed by health insurances and insurance companies were to include coverage for preventive health care services. The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force has categorized and rated preventive health services as either ‘”A” or “B”, as to which insurance companies must comply and present full coverage. Not only has the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force provided graded preventive health services that are appropriate for coverage they have also provided many recommendations to clinicians and insurers to promote better preventive care to ultimately provide better quality of care and lower the burden of costs.\n\n\"Health insurance and Preventive Care\"\nHealthcare insurance companies are willing to pay for preventive care despite the fact that patients are not acutely sick in hope that it will prevent them from developing a chronic disease later on in life. Today, health insurance plans offered through the Marketplace, mandated by the Affordable Care Act are required to provide certain preventive care services free of charge to patients. Section 2713 of the Affordable Care Act, specifies that all private Marketplace and all employer-sponsored private plans (except those grandfathered in) are required to cover preventive care services that are ranked A or B by the US Preventive Services Task Force free of charge to patients. For example, UnitedHealthcare insurance company has published patient guidelines at the beginning of the year explaining their preventive care coverage.\n\n\"Evaluating Incremental Benefits of Preventive Care\"\nEvaluating the incremental benefits of preventive care requires longer period of time when compared to acute ill patients. Inputs into the model such as, discounting rate and time horizon can have significant effects of the results. One controversial subject is use of 10-year time frame to assess cost effectiveness of diabetes preventive services by the Congressional Budget Office.\n\nThe preventive care services mainly focuses on chronic disease, the Congressional Budget Office has provided guidance that further research in the area of the economic impacts of obesity in the US before the CBO can estimate budgetary consequences. A bipartisan report published in May 2015, recognizes that the potential of the preventive care to improve patients health at individual and population levels while decreasing the healthcare expenditure.\n\nAn Economic Case for Preventive Health\n\n\"Mortality from Modifiable Risk Factors\"\n\nChronic diseases such as heart disease, stroke, diabetes, obesity and cancer have become the most common and costly health problems in the United States. In 2014, it was projected that by 2023 that the number of chronic disease cases would increase by 42%, resulting in $4.2 trillion in treatment and lost economic output. They are also among the top ten leading causes of mortality. Chronic diseases are driven by risk factors that are largely preventable. Sub-analysis performed on all deaths in the United States in the year 2000 revealed that almost half were attributed to preventable behaviors including tobacco, poor diet, physical inactivity and alcohol consumption. More recent analysis reveals that heart disease and cancer alone accounted for nearly 46% of all deaths. Modifiable risk factors are also responsible for a large morbidity burden, resulting in poor quality of life in the present and loss of future life earning years2. It is further estimated that by 2023, focused efforts on the prevention and treatment of chronic disease may result in 40 million fewer chronic disease cases, potentially reducing treatment costs by $220 billion.\n\n\"Childhood Vaccinations Reduce Health Care Costs\"\n\nChildhood immunizations are largely responsible for the increase in life expectancy in the 20th century. From an economic standpoint, childhood vaccines demonstrate a very high return on investment. According to Healthy People 2020, for every birth cohort that receives the routine childhood vaccination schedule, direct health care costs are reduced by $9.9 billion and society saves $33.4 billion in indirect costs. The economic benefits of childhood vaccination extend beyond individual patients to insurance plans and vaccine manufacturers, all while improving the health of the population. \n\n\"Prevention and Health Capital Theory\"\nThe burden of preventable illness extends beyond the healthcare sector, incurring significant costs related to lost productivity among workers in the workforce. Indirect costs related to poor health behaviors and associated chronic disease costs U.S. employers billions of dollars each year.\n\nAccording to the American Diabetes Association (ADA), medical costs for employees with diabetes are twice as high as for workers without diabetes and are caused by work-related absenteeism ($5 billion), reduced productivity at work ($20.8 billion), inability to work due to illness-related disability ($21.6 billion), and premature mortality ($18.5 billion). Reported estimates of the cost burden due to increasingly high levels of overweight and obese members in the workforce vary, with best estimates suggesting 450 million more missed work days, resulting in $153 billion each year in lost productivity, according to the CDC Healthy Workforce.\n\nIn the field of economics, the Health Capital model explains how individual investments in health can increase earnings by “increasing the number of healthy days available to work and to earn income.” In this context, health can be treated both as a consumption good, wherein individuals desire health because it improves quality of life in the present, and as an investment good because of its potential to increase attendance and workplace productivity over time. Preventive health behaviors such as healthful diet, regular exercise, access to and use of well-care, avoiding tobacco, and limiting alcohol can be viewed as health inputs that result in both a healthier workforce and substantial cost savings.\n\n\"Preventive Care and Quality Adjusted Life Years\"\n\nHealth benefits of preventive care measures can be described in terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) saved. A QALY takes into account length and quality of life, and is used to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of medical and preventive interventions. Classically, one year of perfect health is defined as 1 QALY and a year with any degree of less than perfect health is assigned a value between 0 and 1 QALY. As an economic weighting system, the QALY can be used to inform personal decisions, to evaluate preventive interventions and to set priorities for future preventive efforts.\n\nCost-saving and cost-effective benefits of preventive care measures are well established. The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation evaluated the prevention cost-effectiveness literature, and found that many preventive measures meet the benchmark of <$100,000 per QALY and are considered to be favorably cost-effective. These include screenings for HIV and chlamydia, cancers of the colon, breast and cervix, vision screening, and screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms in men >60 in certain populations. Alcohol and tobacco screening were found to be cost-saving in some reviews and cost-effective in others. According to the RWJF analysis, two preventive interventions were found to save costs in all reviews: childhood immunizations and counseling adults on the use of aspirin.\n\n\"Prevention in Minority Populations\"\n\nHealth disparities are increasing in the United States for chronic diseases such as obesity, diabetes, cancer, and cardiovascular disease. Populations at heightened risk for health inequities are the growing proportion of racial and ethnic minorities, including African Americans, American Indians, Hispanics/Latinos, Asian Americans, Alaska Natives and Pacific Islanders.\n\nAccording to the Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health (REACH), a national CDC program, Non-Hispanic blacks currently have the highest rates of obesity (48%), and risk of newly diagnosed diabetes is 77% higher among non-Hispanic blacks, 66% higher among Hispanics/Latinos and 18% higher among Asian Americans compared to non-Hispanic whites. Current U.S. population projections predict that more than half of Americans will belong to a minority group by 2044. Without targeted preventive interventions, medical costs from chronic disease inequities will become unsustainable. Broadening health policies designed to improve delivery of preventive services for minority populations may help reduce substantial medical costs caused by inequities in health care, resulting in a return on investment.\n\n\"Policies of Prevention\"\nChronic disease is a population level issue that requires population health level efforts and national and state level public policy to effectively prevent, rather than individual level efforts. The United States currently employs many public health policy efforts aligned with the preventive health efforts discussed above. For instance, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention support initiatives such as Health in All Policies and HI-5 (Health Impact in 5 Years), collaborative efforts that aim to consider prevention across sectors and address social determinants of health as a method of primary prevention for chronic disease. Specific examples of programs targeting vaccination and obesity prevention in childhood are discussed in the sections to follow.\n\n\"Policy Prevention of Obesity\"\n\nPolicies that address the obesity epidemic should be proactive and far-reaching, including a variety of stakeholders both in healthcare and in other sectors. Recommendations from the Institute of Medicine in 2012 suggest that “…concerted action be taken across and within five environments (physical activity (PA), food and beverage, marketing and messaging, healthcare and worksites, and schools) and all sectors of society (including government, business and industry, schools, child care, urban planning, recreation, transportation, media, public health, agriculture, communities, and home) in order for obesity prevention efforts to truly be successful.”\n\nThere are dozens of current policies acting at either (or all of) the federal, state, local and school levels. Most states employ a physical education requirement of 150 minutes of physical education per week at school, a policy of the National Association of Sport and Physical Education. In some cities, including Philadelphia, a sugary food tax is employed. This is a part of an amendment to Title 19 of the Philadelphia Code, “Finance, Taxes and Collections”; Chapter 19-4100, “Sugar-Sweetened Beverage Tax, that was approved 2016, which establishes an excise tax of $0.015 per fluid ounce on distributors of beverages sweetened with both caloric and non-caloric sweeteners. Distributors are required to file a return with the department, and the department can collect taxes, among other responsibilities.\n\nThese policies can be a source of tax credits. For example, under the Philadelphia policy, businesses can apply for tax credits with the revenue department on a first-come, first-served basis. This applies until the total amount of credits for a particular year reaches one million dollars.\n\nRecently, advertisements for food and beverages directed at children have received much attention. The Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) is a self-regulatory program of the food industry. Each participating company makes a public pledge that details its commitment to advertise only foods that meet certain nutritional criteria to children under 12 years old. This is a self-regulated program with policies written by the Council of Better Business Bureaus. The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation funded research to test the efficacy of the CFBAI. The results showed progress in terms of decreased advertising of food products that target children and adolescents.\n\nTo explore other programs and initiatives related to policies of childhood obesity, visit the following organizations and online databases:\nU.S. Department of Agriculture, \nRobert Wood Johnson Foundation-supported Bridging the Gap Program, \nNational Association of County and City Health Officials, \nYale Rudd Center for Food Policy & Obesity, \nCenters for Disease Control and Prevention’s Chronic Disease State Policy Tracking System, \nNational Conference of State Legislatures, \nPrevention Institute’s ENACT local policy database, \nOrganization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and the \nU.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF).\n\n\"Childhood Immunization Policies\"\n\nDespite nationwide controversies over childhood vaccination and immunization, there are policies and programs at the federal, state, local and school levels outlining vaccination requirements. All states require children to be vaccinated against certain communicable diseases as a condition for school attendance. However, currently 18 states allow exemptions for “philosophical or moral reasons.” Diseases for which vaccinations form part of the standard ACIP vaccination schedule are diphtheria tetanus pertussis (whooping cough), poliomyelitis (polio), measles, mumps, rubella, haemophilus influenzae type b, hepatitis B, influenza, and pneumococcal infections. These schedules can be viewed on the CDC website.\n\nThe CDC website describes a federally funded program, Vaccines for Children (VFC), which provides vaccines at no cost to children who might not otherwise be vaccinated because of inability to pay. Additionally, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) is an expert vaccination advisory board that informs vaccination policy and guides on-going recommendations to the CDC, incorporating the most up-to-date cost-effectiveness and risk-benefit evidence in its recommendations.\n\n\"An Economic Case Conclusion\"\n\nThere are economic and health related arguments for preventive healthcare. Direct and indirect medical costs related to preventable chronic disease are high, and will continue to rise with an aging and increasingly diverse U.S. population. The government, at federal, state, local and school levels has acknowledged this and created programs and policies to support chronic disease prevention, notably at the childhood age, and focusing on obesity prevention and vaccination. Economically, with an increase in QALY and a decrease in lost productivity over a lifetime, existing and innovative prevention interventions demonstrate a high return on investment and are expected to result in substantial healthcare cost-savings over time.\n\n"}
{"id": "43782381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43782381", "title": "Rashi Fein", "text": "Rashi Fein\n\nRashi Fein (February 6, 1926 – September 8, 2014) was an American health economist termed \"a father of Medicare\" in the United States and \"an architect of Medicare,\" was Professor of Economics of Medicine, Emeritus, in the Department of Global Health and Social Medicine at Harvard Medical School, and the author of the book \"Medical Care, Medical Costs: The Search for a Health Insurance Policy\" (Harvard University Press, 1986, 1989).\n\nHis work has included benefit-cost analysis, health care financing, health care workforce policy, health equity, cost containment, the financing of medical education, and health care reform.\n\nHe was the brother of Leonard J. Fein, also known as Leibel Fein, an American activist and writer, who had taught political science at MIT, became Deputy Director of the Harvard–MIT Joint Center for Urban Studies, and specialized in Jewish social themes.\n\nFein served on the Advisory Committee of the Jewish Alliance for Law and Social Action He died of melanoma at Massachusetts General Hospital, in Boston.\n\nHe began his service to the United States during World War II in the US Navy. He spent much of his time after that thinking and writing about health care reform. He was a member of the Truman Commission on the Health Care Needs of the Nation, which, as early as 1952, had supported national health insurance and the regionalization of health care delivery. Later, he served on President John F. Kennedy's Council of Economic Advisors as a senior staff member (1961-1963). There, he helped to develop the initial legislation for Medicare, a healthcare model that he continued to advocate throughout his life. Fein had also served on the Board of the Committee for National Health Insurance, under the leadership of former United Auto Workers President Douglas Fraser and under Walter Reuther on a board investigating malnutrition in the United States. He was a charter member of the Institute of Medicine (IOM), had received numerous honors for service in medical economics, and sat on boards of a number of not-for-profit health care institutions. He had authored nine books, the most recent of which was \"Lessons Learned: Medicine, Economics and Public Policy\", published in November 2009.\n\nHe joined the Harvard faculty of the school of medicine and the John F. Kennedy School of Government in 1968. He also served as senior fellow in the economics program at the Brookings Institution in Washington, D.C.\n\nHis 1982 paper \"What Is Wrong with the Language of Medicine?\" in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" began:\nA new language is infecting the culture of American medicine. It is the language of the marketplace, of the tradesman, and of the cost accountant. It is a language that depersonalizes both patients and physicians and describes medical care as just another commodity. It is a language that is dangerous.\nIt concluded:\n\nA decent medical-care system that helps all the people cannot be built without the language of equity and care. If this language is permitted to die and is completely replaced by the language of efficiency and cost control, all of us — including physicians — will lose something precious.\nHe served as chair of the National Advisory Committee (NAC) for the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation's Scholars in Health Policy Research Program from 1994 to 2002 and was its Chair Emeritus until his death. His work included benefit-cost analysis, health care financing, health care workforce policy, cost containment, the financing of medical education, and health care reform. His first book was \"Economics of Mental Illness\" (1958). His last (2010) book, \"Lessons Learned: Medicine, Economics and Public Policy\", was built on the various lessons and stories that, as Chair of the NAC, he had presented over the years at the Scholars’ Annual Meeting in Aspen.\n\nAs an invited speaker, he presented his soon-to-be-piblished book at the \"Health Care Reform 2009: Politics and Paranoia\" in Boston on October 21, 2009, sponsored by the Boston Democratic Socialists of America and Mass-Care.\n\nAmong colleagues, Fein was admired for his wry, often-humorous anecdotes drawn from Jewish culture and over 50 years of experience in the policy arena, which he brought together in his final book, \"Learning Lessons: Medicine, Economics, and Public Policy\" (Transaction Publishers, 2010).\n\nHe also had served as a Director at Newbridge on the Charles, a senior living facility, an affiliate of the Harvard Medical School.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8567551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8567551", "title": "Santa Clara Aqueduct", "text": "Santa Clara Aqueduct\n\nThe Aqueduct of Santa Clara is the second largest Portuguese aqueduct system. Built between 1626 and 1714, it includes 999 arches stretching for from the spring of Terroso in the municipality of Póvoa de Varzim to the Convent of Santa Clara in the municipality of Vila do Conde.\n\nFounded at the beginning of the 14th century, the monastic community of Santa Clara always debated the problems with water supply to the monastery in the territory of Vila do Conde. At that time a tank (the \"arca de água\") was constructed within the monastery, which quickly became insufficient to the communities needs. In 1626, the abbey D. Maria de Meneses, from the House of Pentieiros, purchased lands and contracted a master-builder to construct an aqueduct to bring waters from a spring in Terroso, in Póvoa de Varzim, to support the convent. The construction was interrupted by abbey D. Catarina Lima in 1636, owing to the discovery of a significant slope, making the prior work useless.\n\nOn 19 December 1705, the project was restarted, under abbess D. Bárbara Micaela de Ataíde, from the House of Honra e Barbosa, in Penafiel. The abbess put the project under the direction of captain Domingos Lopes, from Porto and artillery lieutenant-general Manuel de Villa Lobos. Further support for the project was obtained by D. Bárbara de Ataíde, who (along with sisters D. Maria Ângela and D. Maria António) and brother D. Manuel de Azevedo de Ataíde (Military Governor of the Province of Minho) petitioned the King to provide a private judge and exempt the workers from military service. Although the project was tendered to masterbuilder João Rodrigues (from Ponta de Lima), but failed to complete the project. It was then passed to Domingos Moreira (from Moreira da Maia), who was tasked to complete the project and paid 4400$00 réis.\n\nThe first waters reached the convent's cloister on 20 October 1714.\n\nBy 2 October 1739, the Congregation of Rites confirmed the excommunication of people caught stealing water from the aqueduct.\n\nSomewhere around Casal do Monte, during a storm on 10 June 1794, 46 arches were knocked down.\n\nBetween 1929 and 1932, there was an intentional deconstruction of five arches, during the restoration of the Church of Santa Clara, in order to improve the view of the apse.\n\nA tender was issued in January 2004, in order promote the conservation and consolidate the structure.\n\nOn 25 November 2006, the spaces surrounding the aqueduct were requalified (between the monastery of Santa Clara and \"Rua da Lada\"), authored by architect Manuel Maia Gomes, who received the \"Alexandre Herculano National Architecture Award\" by the \"Associação Portuguesa dos Municípios\" (APMCH), the \"Portuguese Municipal Association\". Yet, although the structure was legally protected in 1910, several arches fell as recently as December 2009 and the destroyed arches were not recovered. This problem mostly affects the area of the monument located in Póvoa de Varzim, due to lack of maintenance, a responsibility of the national government.\n\nThe aqueduct is located in a rural environment, isolated and elevated position, annexed to existing structures; some parts of the aqueduct are connected to the Convent of Santa Clara and the Convent of Nossa Senhora da Encarnação.\n\nThe artificial canal extends from the convent to the spring, an extension formed by 999 arches. Of the original structure, a great part of the early aqueduct has been weakened over time, not including the segment from the Church of Santa Clara until the municipal limits, an extension of of . The aqueduct has a decreasing arcade span and height, with pointed arches and a rounded upper channel profile.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39963253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39963253", "title": "Science-Based Medicine", "text": "Science-Based Medicine\n\nScience-Based Medicine is a website with articles covering issues in science and medicine, especially dangerous medical scams and practices. \"Science-Based Medicine\" is noted as an influential and respected source of information about medical controversies and alternative medicine.\n\nSteven Novella, a clinical neurologist at Yale University, founded the site as a blog and serves as its executive editor. David Gorski, a surgical oncologist at Wayne State University, serves as the managing editor. Both editors and the blog's regular contributors are prominent skeptics, doctors, researchers, and communicators.\n\nThe \"Science-Based Medicine\" editorial staff describes themselves as \"being alarmed at the manner in which unscientific and pseudoscientific health care ideas have increasingly infiltrated academic medicine and medicine at large\"; they state that the best medicine is based on scientific principles, which includes prior plausibility, not based on evidence alone.\n\nThe editors are:\n\n\nPast editors have been:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33876822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33876822", "title": "Total conversation", "text": "Total conversation\n\nTotal conversation is an ITU standard of simultaneous video, voice and text service in telecommunications. Total conversation allows people in two or more locations to: (a) see each other, (b) hear each other, and (c) conduct a text interaction (real-time text) with each other, or choose to communicate with any combination of those three modes and to do so in real-time.\n\nThe standard was defined in ITU-T recommendation F.703 of 2000 as \"an audiovisual conversation service providing bidirectional symmetric real-time transfer of motion video, text and voice between users in two or more locations\".\n\n\nTotal conversation is a straightforward application of universal design principles applied to telecommunication field. This standard brings communication services to the broadest range of population including deaf people, hard or hearing people but also people who have speech impairment, people with cognitive impairment, elderly people, children, and also ... regular users. It is an enhancement of call services that provides a better experience to all. Total conversation uses video, text and audio. These media can be combined or not depending on the type of profile used : many user profiles have to be taken into account. Such methodology is named Universal Design.\n\nA number of European companies including 4CTel, Aupix, IVèS, nWise, Omnitor, and Orange Labs produced implementations. These are mostly used to provide user-to-user calls and relay services for deaf and hard of hearing people.\n\nTotal conversation was piloted in a European project called REACH112, named after the 1-1-2 European emergency number, whose purpose was to carry out test deployment of total conversation in a live environment with several thousands users and for three usages:\n\n\nTotal conversation specifications describe:\n\n\nTotal conversation defines three basic services\n\n\nExample of technical protocols used by total conversation are:\n\n(* Use of Common Alerting Protocol may be also considered to share information with Emergency Services.)\n\nAOL Instant Messenger supports the simultaneous use of audio, video, and real-time text via the \"Real-Time IM\" feature. This would be considered compliant with Total Conversation.\n\nFor other chat networks such as Google Talk, the XMPP protocol technically allow for total conversation by combining multiple XMPP Extensions, such as XEP-0266 audio, XEP-0299 video, and XEP-0301 real-time text. As of December 2011, Google Talk only supports audio/video, but not real-time text yet.\n\nSkype has been supporting simultaneous audio, video, and real-time text.\n\nTotal conversation basically provides a multi-media call services with specific media enabled. \nThe currently most common implementation environment is native SIP as described above.\n\nTotal conversation can also be implemented in other call control environments. \nOne such environment is IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS) in its IMS multimedia telephony service.\n\nFirstly, total conversation can be defined as a pragmatic selection of existing standards related to Session Initiation Protocol with the selection of audio, video and text codecs. It is a private initiative of services provider and technology vendors seeking interoperability in the broadtest sense.\n\nSecondly, this can apply to existing and deployed SIP platform rather than future or next generation networks.\n\nThirdly, IMS is much more ambitious and define a whole architecture, including all internal interfaces and billing and physical infrastructure. These standards are more suitable for large telecommunication operators and their equipment vendors. This complexity has consequences:\n\n"}
{"id": "43838034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43838034", "title": "Uganda Dental Association", "text": "Uganda Dental Association\n\nThe Uganda Dental Association (UDA) is a registered non-governmental organization that brings together all the qualified dental surgeons retired or practicing in Uganda. Headquartered in Uganda's capital city Kampala, the UDA serves its members and the public by managing key oral health issues on their behalf and by coordinating dental health awareness programs across the nation.\n\nThe core objective of the UDA is to promote advancement of dentistry through the exchange of ideas amongst dental surgeons, in Uganda and the world. The association uses its leadership role to ensure that the rights and privileges of the members are enjoyed by all and acts as a watchdog to regulate the dental profession in Uganda. The association also ensures that the expectations of the public are met and is actively involved with lobbying and advocacy initiatives.\n\nThe UDA publishes an annual journal of dental related articles called \"UDA Journal\". Every November, the UDA fraternity marks \"Dental Health Week\" with media campaigns, screening and treatment for dental diseases and dental health education through outreach to the underserved communities. On 20 March each year, the UDA joins the world in observing World Oral Health Day (WOHD) by organizing special awareness campaigns and clinics.\n\nThe UDA was founded in the 1960s by five dentists, namely; Dr.Jack Barlow, Dr.Bisase Arnold, Dr.Aliker Okello, Dr. Amooti Twamirimo Nkurukenda and Dr. William B. Nganwa. In the 1970s during President Idi Amin's regime, the association became inactive after the murder of Dr.Jack Barlow by president Amin. It was later revived in the 1980s by Dr. George W. Ssamula together with Dr. William B. Nganwa and Dr. J. F. Tiromwe. As of 2014, the UDA has more than 280 members. In 2010 the UDA published the first \"UDA Journal\". The first UDA office was at Mulago Hospital. The current UDA headquarters were opened at the Department of Dentistry Makerere University, in 2013.\n\nThe organisation provides continued dental education to its members through workshops, monthly UDA Meetings and UDA journals. The UDA provides a platform for dentists to network nationally and internationally. The organisation helps dentists to engage in outreach programmes and events which benefit both the community and the member. The UDA provides additional credibility to dental practitioners Uganda.\n\nAlso, the dental association provides group discounts on professional fees paid by its members; for example Group Professional Indemnity. Finally, the association lends books and DVDs to its members.\n\nThe UDA acts as a watchdog to regulate the dental profession in Uganda in collaboration with the Uganda Medical & Dental Practitioners Council (UMDPC) which is mandated by Uganda’s Ministry of Health to regulate professional Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons in the country. The UDA has a representative on the UMDPC Board as per the Medical and Dental Practitioners Act 1998.\n\nThe association consists of Dental Surgeons, Honorary Members and Associate members qualified and/or with a professional connection with dentistry in Uganda. Qualified dentists must be registered with the Association, and thereafter with the Uganda Medical and Dental Practitioners Council upon payment of the levied charges and Professionals other than dentists whose work is related to dentistry may apply for membership of the association.\n\nThe UDA is a member of various international bodies like FDI and the Commonwealth Dental Association (CDA).\n\nThe association has a unique and innovative partnership with Wrigleys. The UDA is promoting good oral hygiene and practice in communities around Uganda through The Wrigley Oral Healthcare Program. Colgate and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) usually sponsor the UDA’s countrywide initiatives.\n\nIt subscribes to over 100 dental journals and provides members with free MEDLINE searches. The UDA produces regular dental publications, such as the \"UDA Journal\" (for clinical articles and jobs).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7529097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7529097", "title": "Vaginal dilator", "text": "Vaginal dilator\n\nA vaginal dilator (sometimes called a vaginal trainer) is an instrument used to gently stretch the vagina. They are used when the vagina has become narrowed (vaginal stenosis), such as after brachytherapy for gynecologic cancers, and as therapy for vaginismus and other forms of dyspareunia.\n\nThere is mixed evidence for their use, and studies have reported psychological damage from dilator treatment. Rectovaginal fistulae have also been linked to dilator use.\nVaginal dilators, also called vaginal stents, are used routinely in postoperative care for patients who have undergone sex reassignment surgery (male-to-female). The dilator is used immediately after surgery to keep the passage from healing, and regularly thereafter to maintain the viability of the neovagina. Frequency of use requirements decrease over time, but remains obligatory lifelong.\n\n"}
{"id": "39193910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39193910", "title": "Worksafe (Western Australia)", "text": "Worksafe (Western Australia)\n\nWorksafe is an agency within the Department of Commerce, which is part of the state government, responsible for the administration of the \"Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1984\". \nThere are also agencies in other states of Australia, and at a national level with similar names and objectives\n\nThe principal objective of the act and the division is to secure the safety and health of people in the workplace.\n"}
