{"id": "17866944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17866944", "title": "Account of profits", "text": "Account of profits\n\nAn account of profits (sometimes referred to as an accounting for profits or simply an accounting) is a type of equitable remedy most commonly used in cases of breach of fiduciary duty. It is an action taken against a defendant to recover the profits taken as a result of the breach of duty, in order to prevent unjust enrichment.\n\nIn conducting an account of profits, the plaintiff is treated as if they were conducting the business of the defendant, and made those profits which were attributable to the defendant's wrongful actions. This can be rather complex in practice, because the defendant's accounting records must be examined (sometimes by a forensic accountant) to determine what portion of his gross profits were derived to the wrongful act in question. As a result, mathematical exactness is not called for and reasonable approximation is acceptable.\n\nHistorically an account was not an equitable remedy, but was an action at common law, and is therefore technically an instrument of law, though it arose at a time before the distinction between law and equity was marked.\n\nCo-owners in concurrent estates also have the right to an accounting of profits, in order to properly apportion income from the use or leasing of the property. The remedy is also available against strangers to a trust who \"dishonestly assist\" an express trustee in a breach of the trustee’s fiduciary duty.\n\nCase law has shown roughly two approaches to assessing the extent of an account of profits:\n\n"}
{"id": "4186481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4186481", "title": "Alaska Law Review", "text": "Alaska Law Review\n\nThe Alaska Law Review is an academic law journal that is devoted to legal issues relating to the State of Alaska. First published in 1971, since 1984 it has been published by students at Duke Law School in Durham, North Carolina every June and December. The journal is not published in Alaska, because no law school operates within the state. The \"Alaska Law Review\" is funded by the Alaska Bar Association and a copy of the \"Alaska Law Review\" is provide to every Alaskan attorney as part of the dues to the Alaska Bar Association. \n\nIn 1971, the Los Angeles, California law school UCLA School of Law began publishing the \"Alaska Law Review\" as the UCLA - Alaska Law Review (from v.1 (1971)-v.12 (1983)). The review is published every June and December. In 1983, the Alaska Bar Association selected Duke University School of Law in Durham, North Carolina to take over publication of the Alaska Law Review. The \"Alaska Law Review\" is funded by the Alaska Bar Association and a copy of the \"Alaska Law Review\" is provide to every Alaskan attorney as part of the dues to the Alaska Bar Association. Because the Alaska Bar Association distributes a copy of the \"Alaska Law Review\" to every one of its members, numbering approximately 3000 lawyers in 2008, the \"Alaska Law Review\" is \"one of the most widely circulated law journals\" in America.\n"}
{"id": "1442752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1442752", "title": "Animal Welfare Act of 1966", "text": "Animal Welfare Act of 1966\n\nThe Animal Welfare Act (Laboratory Animal Welfare Act of 1966, P.L. 89-544) was signed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson on August 24, 1966. It is the only Federal law in the United States that regulates the treatment of animals in research and exhibition. Other laws, policies, and guidelines may include additional species coverage or specifications for animal care and use, but all refer to the Animal Welfare Act (otherwise known as the \"AWA\") as the minimally acceptable standard for animal treatment and care. The USDA and APHIS oversee the AWA and the House and Senate Agriculture Committees have primary legislative jurisdiction over the Act. Animals covered under this Act include any live or dead cat, dog, hamster, rabbit, nonhuman primate, guinea pig, and any other warm-blooded animal determined by the Secretary of Agriculture for research, pet use or exhibition. Excluded from the Act are birds, rats of the genus Rattus (laboratory rats), mice of the genus Mus (laboratory mice), farm animals, and all cold-blooded animals.\n\nAs enacted in 1966, the AWA required all animal dealers to be registered and licensed as well as liable to monitoring by Federal regulators and suspension of their license if they violate any provisions of the Animal Welfare Act and imprisonment of up to a year accompanied by a fine of $1,000. As of the 1985 AWA amendment, all facilities covered by the Animal Welfare Act have been required to establish a specialized committee that includes at least one person trained as a veterinarian and one not affiliated with the facility. Such committees regularly assess animal care, treatment, and practices during research, and are required to inspect all animal study areas at least once every 6 months. The committees are also required to ensure that alternatives to animal use in experimentation would be used whenever possible.\n\nWorldwide, the first law to regulate animal experimentation was Cruelty to Animals Act 1876, passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It established a central governing body that reviewed and approved all animal use in research. After that, numerous countries in Europe adopted regulations regarding research with animals.\n\nAlthough Congress discussed laboratory animal welfare in the early 1960s, there was not enough interest to pass legislation until articles published by \"Sports Illustrated\" and \"Life\" in 1965 and 1966, respectively, generated a public outcry.\n\nThe first article, written by Coles Phinizy, appeared in the November 29, 1965 issue of Sports Illustrated. The piece detailed the story of Pepper the Dalmatian, a dog that disappeared from the yard of the Lakavage family home in Pennsylvania. It was later discovered that Pepper had been stolen by \"dog-nappers,\" was bought by a Bronx hospital, and had died during an experimental surgical procedure. On July 9, 1965, Representative Joseph Y. Resnick introduced H.R. 9743 into the House of Representatives, a bill that would require dog and cat dealers, as well as the laboratories that purchased the animals to be licensed and inspected by the USDA. A hearing was held on September 30, 1965, and similar legislation was sponsored in the Senate.\n\nIn 1966, Life Magazine published an article documenting the housing conditions at animal dealer facilities. The article, titled \"Concentration Camp for Dogs,\" featured pictures of skeletal dogs and described the neglectful conditions that the investigative journalists and Maryland State Police found at a Maryland dog dealer's farm. As a result of these articles, the public lobbied Congress to pass a Federal law that would institute animal housing and care standards.\nThere was increasing evidence that dogs and cats kept as pets were being stolen by dealers, taken across states lines, and resold to research institutions for scientific experimentation. Many sportsmen supported national legislation because it was their hunting dogs that often went missing.\n\nThe Horse Protection Act (public Law 91-929) was passed in 1970 and protected horses against various damaging practices designed to produce aesthetically appealing horses, for example, \"soring\" the ankles to produce a high-stepping gait. Marine mammals as a class (whales, porpoises, seals, and polar bears), for the most part, found protection under the passage of the Marine Mammal Protection Act (Public Law 92-522) of 1972, which prevented extinction or depletion from indiscriminate taking, including hunting, harassment, capture, and killing (permitted takings, including for subsistence and research purposes, must be accomplished humanely, with \"the least degree of pain and suffering practicable to the animal\"). Endangered and threatened species were also protected with the passage in 1973 of the Endangered Species Act (Public Law 93-205), which made illegal the purchase, sale, or transportation in interstate or foreign commerce any species found to be endangered, and also closely regulated commerce in any species threatened with extinction.\n\nThe Act was amended eight times (1970, 1976, 1985, 1990, 2002, 2007, 2008, and 2013) and is enforced by the USDA, APHIS, and Animal Care agency.\n\nIn 1970, the Act was amended (Pub.L. 91–579) to include all warm-blooded animals used in testing, experimentation, exhibition, as pets or sold as pets. Certain cases could be exempted from such definitions unless they used live animal in substantial numbers. Fines were increased for those interfering with an investigation of an experimentation facility. Those found guilty of assaulting or killing Federal inspectors responsible for such tasks also faced additional sentencing. Basic treatment was expanded to include humane and reasonable handling of the animals, and required shelter from weather and temperature extremes, proper ventilation, adequate housing, decent sanitation, and adequate veterinary care at all stages in the animal's life.\n\nThe Act was further amended in 1976 (Pub.L. 94–279) to further regulate animal treatment during transportation. Animals were to be kept in adequately-sized traveling accommodations, and to be kept from fighting amongst one another. The definition of animal was broadened to rid the law of the possible interpretation that dogs used for hunting, security, and breeding were not included in its protection.\n\nThe Act was amended in the Food Security Act of 1985 (Pub.L. 99–198). Under this law, it was not permitted for a single animal to be used in more than one major operative experiment, from which it was also allowed adequate time to recover as guided by a veterinarian with proper training. This amendment directed new minimum standards for the handling, housing, sanitation, feeding and other care practices. The psychological well-being of the animals was now taken into consideration as it never had been before. One provision that stood out at this time was the requirement for the exercise of dogs and psychological well being of primates. The law also requires research facilities to be able to describe painful practices as well as implement practices that minimize pain and stress to the animals. Another requirement made under this law was for each research facility to establish an Institutional Animal Care committee to oversee research proposals and provide oversight of animal experimentation.\n\nIn 1990, The Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 was amended by adding SEC. 2503, Protection of Pets (Pub.L. 101–624). This section established a holding period for cats and dogs of not less than 5 days at a holding facility of the dealer, so that the animal could be adopted or recovered by their original owner before it is sold. The provision applies to operated pounds, research facilities, or private organizations. It also requires that a written certification with the animal's background be provided to the recipient. Details should include a description of the animal, history of the animal's transfers, records, and modifications, and signatures from the dealer and recipient. Repeat violations of this section are subject to a $5000 fine per cat or dog acquired or sold. Three or more violations could result in the dealer's license being permanently revoked. \nPrior to the Animal Welfare Act, animal welfare law was largely reactive and action could only be taken once an animal had suffered unnecessarily.\n\nIn 2002, Title X, Subtitle D, of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act amended the Animal Welfare Act of 1966 by changing the definition of animal (Pub.L. 107–171). Section 2 of the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2132) was amended by changing exclusions specifically to birds, rats of the genus \"Rattus\", and mice of the genus \"Mus\" to use in research. Additionally, this law expanded the regulation of animal fighting, making it a misdemeanor to ship, exhibit, or sponsor birds for fighting purposes. Penalties under this section could result in a fine of $15000.\n\nIn 2007, The Animal Fighting Prohibition Reinforcement Act amended section 26 of the Animal Welfare Act (Pub.L. 110–22). Its purpose was to strengthen prohibitions against animal fighting, and under the provisions of the AWA it made animal fighting a felony with punishment of up to 3 years in prison under Title 18 of the U.S Code( Crimes and Criminal Procedure). The act also made it a felony to trade, have knives, gaffs or other objects that aided in use of animal fighting. Also, these provisions were designed to close the loopholes from the 2002 amendments.\n\nIn 2008, the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008, added several new amendments to the Animal Welfare Act (Pub.L. 110–246). It added more prohibitions to training, possessing and advertising animals or sharp objects for use in animal fighting. The penalties for these crimes were raised to 3–5 years imprisonment. The 2008 amendments also prohibited imports for resale of dogs unless they were at least six months of age, have all necessary vaccinations and are in good health. Furthermore, fines for violations of the Animal Welfare Act increased from $2500 to $10,000 per violation, per animal and per day.\n\nIn 2013, \"An Act to Amend the Animal Welfare Act to Modify the Definition of 'Exhibitor',\" added \"an owner of a common, domesticated household pet who derives less than a substantial portion of income from a nonprimary source (as determined by the Secretary) for exhibiting an animal that exclusively resides at the residence of the pet owner,\" after \"stores,\" in section 2(h).\n\nThe U.S Department of Agriculture (USDA) requires businesses that either buy or sell warmblooded animals, exhibit them to the public, transport them commercially, or use them in teaching or experiments, must be licensed or registered. Failure to become licensed or registered is a punishable violation of the Animal Welfare Act. Depending on the basis of the business, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection services (APHIS) determines whether the business should be licensed, registered, or both. Business owners are responsible for knowing about registration and licensing requirements.\n\nFederal animal care standards mainly cover humane handling, housing, space, feeding, sanitation, shelter from extremes of weather, adequate veterinary care, transportation, and handling in transit. The same standards of animal care apply to all registered and licensed businesses. To make sure the regulation and standards are followed, APHIS field inspectors make periodic unannounced visits to all locations where animals are held.\n\nIf any facility does not meet federal standards when they apply for a license or registration, they can receive up to three inspections within a period 90 days to correct any problems. The licenses are not issued until all problems are corrected. The facilities have to wait for a minimum of 6 months before reapplying for a license if they do not pass inspection within the 90-day period. Legal action results if the facility operates a regulated business without a license.\n\nUnder the Animal Welfare Act, exhibitors and animal dealers must obtain a license, for which an annual fee is charged. APHIS does not issue a license until it inspects the facility and finds it to be in compliance with its regulations. Research facilities and animal transporters do not need a license, but must be registered with APHIS.\n\nAnimal dealers are people who sell animals bred at their facility. Examples of dealers include pet and laboratory animal breeders and brokers, auction operators, and everyone who sells exotic or wild animals, or dead animals or their parts. They must be licensed under class \"A\" or \"B\". Class A licenses are given to breeders who deal only in animals they breed and raise. Class B licenses are given to people who buy and sell animals they did not raise. Exempt from the law and regulations are retail pet stores, those who sell pets directly to pet owners, hobby breeders, animal shelters, and boarding kennels. The annual license fee for licensed animal dealers (Class A or B) ranges from $30 to $750, depending on the annual dollar volume of business in regulated animals. An annual application fee of $10 must be paid with all yearly license renewal applications.\n\nAn exhibitor is a business or a person that displays animals to the public. Exhibitors must be licensed by APHIS under Class C licenses. Exhibitors include zoos, educational displays or exhibits, marine mammal shows, circuses, carnivals, and animal acts. The law and regulations exempt agricultural shows and fairs, horse shows, pet shows, game preserves, hunting events, and private collectors who do not exhibit. The annual license fee for Class C licensed animal exhibitors ranges from $30 to $300, depending on the number of regulated animals held. In addition to the annual license fee, an application fee of $10 must be paid with all yearly license renewal applications.\n\nA person with a commercial business that moves animals from one location to another is considered a transporter under the AWA. Animal transporters must be registered, including general carriers such as trucking companies, airlines, and railroads. Businesses that contract to transport animals for compensation are considered dealers and must have licenses.\n\nResearch facilities are those that use animals for teaching, experimentation, surgery, or testing purposes. Research facilities must be registered, and include state and local government-run research laboratories, universities, and colleges, diagnostic laboratories, and pharmaceutical firms. Federal facilities, elementary and secondary schools, and agricultural research institutions are among those exempt from registration.\n\nThere is much debate as to the actual definition of an animal, but for the purpose of AWA, birds, rats, mice, horses, and other farm animals were excluded from its protection as initially legislated in 1966. The most commonly used animals in laboratories are rats and mice, and therefore they were not regulated in the original law. Purpose-bred rats of the genus Rattus and mice of the genus Mus are not covered by the Animal Welfare Act, but are regulated under PHS policy which applies only to research receiving federal funding from certain federal agencies, including the NIH. These are not federal laws but conditions of funding.\n\nCertain conditions are also excluded from coverage by AWA. Animals that are killed prior to usage, such as frogs used in a biology class, are also not included, so long as they are killed humanely.\n\nFacilities that do not receive Federal funding, such as bear armories, were also not covered by the Act.\n\nIn January 2015 Michael Moss of \"The New York Times\" published an exposé on the alleged mistreatment of research animals at the U.S. Meat Animal Research Center. Among other things, Moss's article asserted that the center had no veterinarians on its staff, with surgical procedures done by workers without veterinary degrees or licenses; and that the Act contains an exemption for farm animals used in agricultural research, which exemption covers the USMARC's activities.\n\nAPHIS's Animal Care (AC) program oversees the AWA, which includes about 10,300 facilities. These AC officials make unannounced facility inspections to ensure they are in compliance with regulations, and to identify unregistered facilities. They make such inspections or investigations of any dealer, exhibitor, research facility, handler, carrier, or operator of an auction sale, to determine if they have violated provisions under this chapter. Under the Animal Welfare Act, these facilities are to be inspected at least once a year, with follow-up inspections conducted until deficiencies are corrected. If deficiencies are found, failure to correct them could result in fines, cease and desist orders, suspensions, confiscation of animals and loss of licensing. There are also penalties for interfering with inspections.\n\nIf the Secretary of Agriculture has any reason to suspect that any licensed dealer, carrier, or operator violates any provision of the AWA, then their license may be suspended temporarily, but not to exceed 21 days, until a hearing is held. After the hearing, the license may be revoked if the violation is determined to have occurred.\nAny dealer, carrier, exhibitor, handler, operator, or research facility that violates any provision of the AWA may be assessed a penalty of no more than $10,000 for each violation. Any person who knowingly fails to obey an order made by the Secretary of Agriculture is subject to a civil penalty of $1,500 for each offense.\nAny dealer, exhibitor, carrier, handler, auction operator, or research facility may seek a review of an order within 60 days at the United States Court of Appeals.\n\nThe 2006 HBO film \"Dealing Dogs\" documents an undercover operation targeting a \"Class B\" kennel which treated dogs inhumanely, violating the Act. The owners of the kennel were fined over $200,000 as the result of a USDA suit.\n\nIn 2011, the Dollarhite family of Nixa, Missouri were fined $90,643 for selling several thousand dollars worth of rabbits without a license, which is required of people selling more than $500 worth of rabbits sold as pets. The USDA has increased enforcement of the law in recent years, targeting magicians who perform magic tricks with rabbits.\n\nIn 1981, a graduate student and PETA member, Alex Pacheco, volunteered at a research center in Silver Spring, Maryland. At the time, Edward Taub was conducting research on monkeys for neuroplasticity purposes at that center. While Alex spent time at the research center, he noticed the inhumane treatment of the monkeys under the AWA and reported it to the police. He filed suit against Edward Taub, who was researching afferent ganglia. Edward Taub was convicted of six animal cruelty charges, which were appealed in the second trial. They proved to be significant in the understanding of the law. While this case provided an advancement in neurology research, it was at risking inhumane treatment of animals.\nAs the court wrote in its opinion:\n\nTo imply a cause of action in these plaintiffs might entail serious consequences. It might open the use of animals in biomedical research to the hazards and vicissitudes of courtroom litigation. It may draw judges into the supervision and regulation of laboratory research. It might unleash a spate of private lawsuits that would impede advances made by medical [sic] science in the alleviation of human suffering. To risk consequences of this magnitude in the absence of clear direction from the Congress would be ill-advised. In fact, we are persuaded that Congress intended that the independence of medical [sic] research be respected and that administrative enforcement govern the Animal Welfare Act.\n\nIn 1998, a court case was argued on behalf of the Animal Legal Defense Fund vs Daniel Glickman (the Secretary of Agriculture), for the inhumane treatment of a primate named Barney at a Long Island Game Farm Park and Zoo. A man name Marc Jurnove had visited this park on a regular basis and noticed this primate had been neglected. He filed suit against the USDA for failing to meet the minimum standards under the AWA and his allegations were supported by investigations. The U.S. Court of Appeals, D.C. Circuit Court ruled that he had standing to sue. The merits of the case were determined by a later case: Animal Legal Defense Fund v. Glickman, 204 F.3d 229 (2001), in which the Court rejected Jurnove's argument and upheld the validity of the USDA regulations.\n\nIn 2012, in the case of 907 Whitehead Street, Inc. vs U.S. Secretary of Agriculture (USDA), the plaintiff challenged the jurisdiction of the USDA and its Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to regulate the Ernest Hemingway Home and Museum as an animal exhibitor. The museum is home to dozens of polydactyl cats, the progeny of a cat that Ernest Hemingway was given as a pet when he lived there during the 1930s. Following a complaint by a museum visitor, the USDA visited the museum and in October 2003, determined that the Museum was an animal exhibitor subject to regulation under the AWA because the Museum exhibited the cats for the cost of an admission fee, and the cats were used in promotional advertising. Under USDA regulations, the museum is required to obtain a USDA exhibitor's license, give each cat a tag for identification purposes, provide additional resting surfaces within their existing enclosures, and introduce one of several specified improvements required to ensure the cats remain contained to the museum's grounds. The museum challenged on several grounds the USDA's authority in the case, noting that the Hemingway cats do not have an effect on interstate commerce sufficient to merit federal regulation. As of December 2012, the case had reached the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, which upheld earlier district court rulings.\n\nThe USDA enforces the AWA and conducts regular inspections. Animal care will perform inspections in response to public concerns for the conditions of regulated facilities. They encourage individuals to report unregulated facilities that may require licenses or registration. Many state and local governments have animal welfare laws of their own.\n\nAnimal care seeks to educate the public and create a cooperative relationship with licensed and registered entities, the animal protection community, and other Federal and State agencies. To accomplish this goal, Animal care conducts workshops regarding minimum care standards as outlined in the AWA.\n\nMany animal welfare groups and animal activists support strengthening and further enforcement of the act. The act is often criticized for its exclusions of rats and mice, which are the most widely used laboratory animals. Although the act was amended to include all warmblooded animals in 1970, birds, mice, and rats were subsequently excluded in 2002. Some, however, feel that additional animals that are not warmblooded, should be included in the act's protection. A significant number of Congressional members have supported a higher level of funding for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of the act.\n\nThere are many opponents of increased government regulation for scientific research facilities. Some claim that researchers and their institutions are the ones best suited to determine what policies are acceptable regarding their care of animals. Some in the scientific community feel that it would be inappropriate to regulate animal use at a higher level. There are as well those that feel that funding for the act should be altogether eliminated, although this extreme view is not as widely accepted.\n\nThere have been numerous sanctions taken against individuals and agencies that have been found in violation. A database of violations, reports, and sanctions on behalf of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) can be found on the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25371186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25371186", "title": "Association for a More Just Society", "text": "Association for a More Just Society\n\nThe Association for a More Just Society (La Asociación para una Sociedad más Justa in Spanish) is a Honduran non-governmental organization working on human rights and government transparency in Honduras, where it serves as Transparency International's local chapter. Its sister organization in the United States it known as the Association for a More Just Society (AJS).\n\nThe Association for a More Just Society was founded in 1998 in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, with a focus on land and labor rights. The organization has since grown to work in various sectors including education, health, and security reform. Their work investigating and prosecuting homicides in marginal communities has reduced violence and impunity in several neighborhoods in Tegucigalpa, while advocacy for security reforms has contributed to an overall reduction in homicide rates in Honduras. ASJ has an office in Tegucigalpa and in San Pedro Sula, Honduras. When in December 2006 ASJ lawyer Dionisio Díaz García was murdered.\nThe Inter-American Commission on Human Rights asked the government to protect workers of ASJ.\n\nIn 2009, ASJ became a founding member of civil society coalition Transformemos Honduras (Let's Transform Honduras), which provides social oversight to the public education and health systems. Other members include Doctors Without Borders and Christian charity organizations World Vision and Compassion International.\n\nBy mobilizing parents of students in Honduras' public schools to collect accurate data, Let's Transform Honduras exposed that between 2002 and 2012, teachers' strikes and other irregularities meant that students were attending class on average 120 days per year, despite Honduran law requiring 200 days per year. When the reports were published, the Minister of Education was fired, and the new Minister instituted reforms that purged 15,000 \"ghost teachers\" from the government payroll, teachers who were being paid, but not showing up to class. Consequently, students have met 200 days per year for the past three years in a row.\n\nLet's Transform Honduras also exposed corruption in government medicine purchasing and warehousing. A report published in March, 2013 showed that medicines were not only being overvalued, they were being purchased from companies with elite connections—one was owned by the family of the vice-president of the Honduran Congress, a clear conflict of interest. Furthermore, medicine warehousing left sensitive medicines to spoil, threatening the health of thousands of Hondurans. The report led to a raid on the warehouse and an arrest of the Warehouse Manager, as well as a complete overhaul of medicine purchasing for public hospitals in Honduras. Medical purchasing is now done in a trust in cooperation with the United Nations Office for Project Services, with Let's Transform Honduras performing social oversight.\n\nASJ helped found La Alianza por la Paz y la Justicia (APJ, the Alliance for Peace and Justice) in 2012, a civil society coalition that advocates for reforms in the judicial and security sectors, particularly in regards to corruption in the national and military police. The Alliance for Peace and Justice includes the Catholic and Evangelical churches in Honduras, the National Autonomous University, the Honduran Association for nongovernmental associations, and various national and international organizations including World Vision.\n\nAPJ works in five regional chapters both training individuals to navigate the justice system and advocating for reforms to make the justice system easier to navigate. The Alliance is the strongest coalition of civil society in Honduras, and frequently speaks on issues of corruption and violence.\n\nIn 2014, Honduran president Juan Orlando Hernández signed a collaboration agreement with ASJ and Transparency International (TI) allowing them full access to information on government purchasing and contracts, human resources, and data collection so that the organizations could perform social oversight. The first of the reports on six major government sectors were presented in November, 2015, exposing multiple irregularities. In response, the government ministers proposed several reforms, which ASJ and TI will continue to monitor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21900919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21900919", "title": "Attorneys in Sri Lanka", "text": "Attorneys in Sri Lanka\n\nAn Attorneys at law (or attorney-at-law) in Sri Lanka is the only legal practitioners authorized to represent others in all court of law in the island and are also authorized to give advice regarding any matter of law. Alternative terms include lawyer.\n\nIn 1833 the Supreme Court of Ceylon was allowed by Section 17 of the Charter of 1833, to \"admit and enroll as Advocates and Proctors, persons of good repute and of competent knowledge and ability upon examination by one or more of the judges of the Supreme Court\". Since then there were two groups of legal practitioners in Sri Lanka before 1974 as advocates and proctors, when the Administration of Justice Law was enacted by the National State Assembly in 1973. Like barristers and solicitors in England. Advocates did not have offices and they could not visit an office of a Proctor. They had no power to act as notary-publics. Advocates appeared in civil & criminal cases under the instructions of a Proctor. Any person who wished to get the service of an Advocate he had to get it via a Proctor.\n\nUnder the Administration of \"Justice Law No. 44 of 1973\" of the National State Assembly one group of practitioners were formed as Attorneys-at-law. After the aforementioned law came into operation both advocates and proctors are considered as Attorneys-at-law for all purposes. Those attorneys engaging the practice of courtroom advocacy and litigation, as did advocates in the past are referred to as counselor while other attorneys engaged in all kinds of legal work. Counselor are retained by instructing attorneys on behalf of their clients. Senior counselors may be appointed as President's Counsel.\n\nTo practice law in Sri Lanka one must be admitted and enrolled as an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka. This is achieved by passing law exams at the Sri Lanka Law College which are administered by the Council of Legal Education and spending a period of six months under a practicing attorney of at least 8 years standing as an articled clerk. To undertake law exams students must gain admission to the Sri Lanka Law College and study law or directly undertake exams after gaining an LL.B from a local or foreign university. Members of Parliament may gain admission to the Sri Lanka Law College to qualify as lawyers.\n\nThere are several appointments that attorneys can apply for or be granted by the government;\n\n\nSri Lankan attorneys are required to wear robes and other items of court dress when they appear in court. Male attorneys, must wear a black coat, dark trousers, white shirt and black tie, they are also permitted to where white trousers or white National dress and also a black sherwani. Sherwanis and white trousers are uncommon. Lady lawyers commonly wear white saree. Black gown (robes) must be worn before the Superior Courts (the Court of Appeal and Supreme Court) and are optional in other courts and are wron per custom.\n\nPrior to 1974, advocates wore the court dress of barristers with horsehair wig (ceremonial occasions), stiff collar, bands, and a gown; while proctors wore black coat and white trousers. Following the creation of the profession of attorneys in 1974 to reforms of it in 1977, all judges and attorneys wore black coats, dark trousers. Since then the current practice continues. \n\nAttorneys are regulated by the Bar for the jurisdiction where they practice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2657367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2657367", "title": "Awning", "text": "Awning\n\nAn awning or overhang is a secondary covering attached to the exterior wall of a building. It is typically composed of canvas woven of acrylic, cotton or polyester yarn, or vinyl laminated to polyester fabric that is stretched tightly over a light structure of aluminium, iron or steel, possibly coot or transparent material (used to cover solar thermal panels in the summer, but that must allow as much light as possible in the winter). The configuration of this structure is something of a truss, space frame or planar frame. Awnings are also often constructed of aluminium understucture with aluminium sheeting. These aluminium awnings are often used when a fabric awning is not a practical application where snow load as well as wind loads may be a factor.\n\nThe location of an awning on a building may be above a window, a door, or above the area along a sidewalk. With the addition of columns an awning becomes a canopy, which is able to extend further from a building, as in the case of an entrance to a hotel. Restaurants often use awnings broad enough to cover substantial outdoor area for outdoor dining, parties, or reception. In commercial buildings, an awning is often painted with information as to the name, business, and address, thus acting as a sign or billboard as well as providing shade, breaking strong winds, and protecting from rain or snow. In areas with wintry weather, most awnings do not have to be taken down at the end of the summer – they can remain retracted against the building all winter long, or be designed and built for those conditions.\n\nAwnings were first used by the ancient Egyptian and Syrian civilizations. They are described as \"woven mats\" that shaded market stalls and homes. A Roman poet Lucretius, in 50 BC, said \"Linen-awning, stretched, over mighty theatres, gives forth at times, a cracking roar, when much 'tis beaten about, betwixt the poles and cross-beams\".\n\nAmong the most significant awnings in the ancient world was the velarium, the massive complex of retractable shade structures that could be deployed above the seating areas of the Roman Colosseum. Made of linen shadecloths, timber framing, iron sockets and rope, the system could effectively shade about one-third of the arena and seating; another third could be shaded by the high surrounding walls, providing a majority of seats some shade on a blinding afternoon. It is believed that sailors, with their background in sailmaking and rigging were employed to build, maintain and operate the velarium.\nAwnings became common during the first half of the 19th century. At that time they consisted of timber or cast iron posts set along the sidewalk edge and linked by a front cross bar. To lend support to larger installations, angled rafters linked the front cross bar to the building facade. The upper end of the canvas was connected to the facade with nails, with grommets and hooks, or by lacing the canvas to a head rod bolted to the facade. The other (projecting) end of the canvas was draped over or laced to a front bar with the edge often hanging down to form a valance. On ornate examples, metal posts were adorned with filigree and the tops decorated with spear ends, balls or other embellishments. On overcast days or when rain did not threaten, the covering was often rolled up against the building facade; during the winter months proper maintenance called for the removal and storage of awnings. Photographs from the mid-19th century often show the bare framework, suggesting that the covering was extended only when necessary. Canvas duck was the predominant awning fabric, a strong, closely woven cotton cloth used for centuries to make tents and sails.\n\nAwnings became a common feature in the years after the Civil War. Iron plumbing pipe, which was quickly adapted for awning frames, became widely available and affordable as a result of mid-century industrialization. It was a natural material for awning frames, easily bent and threaded together to make a range of different shapes and sizes. At the same time the advent of the steamship forced canvas mills and sail makers to search for new markets. An awning industry developed offering an array of frame and fabric options adaptable to both storefronts and windows.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, manufactured operable awnings grew in popularity. Previously, most awnings had fixed frames-the primary way to retract the covering was to roll it up the rafters by hand. Operable systems for both storefront and window awnings had extension arms that were hinged where they joined the facade. The arms were lowered to project the awning or raised to retract the awning using simple rope and pulley arrangements. Because the canvas remained attached to the framework, retractable awnings allowed a more flexible approach to shading (shopkeepers and owners could incrementally adjust the amount of awning coverage depending upon the weather conditions). When the sun came out from behind clouds, the awning could be deployed with ease. In case of sudden storms, owners could quickly retract the awning against the building wall where it was protected from wind gusts.\n\nDespite their advantages, early operable awnings had drawbacks; when retracted, their cloth coverings often bunched up against the building facade. This left part of the fabric exposed to inclement weather, and deterioration was often accelerated by moisture pooling in the folds of fabric. If poorly designed or badly placed, the retracted fabric could obscure part of the window or door opening, and even if out of the way an imperfectly folded awning presented an unkempt appearance. Modern materials and designs have eliminated all of these issues.\n\nRetractable awnings let owners control the weather on their own terms. When passing showers threaten, or when the sun gets hot, they or the home automation system unroll the awning for near-instant protection and shade. Lab test measurements show that it can be as much as 20 degrees cooler under an awning’s canopy. Because awnings prevent the sun from shining through windows and sliding glass doors, they can keep temperatures inside cooler as well, which saves on air-conditioning costs. They can help prevent carpets and furniture from fading in sunlight. Awnings also provide a sheltered place for children and pets to play, shielded from direct sun.\n\nSome of today’s awnings also offer accessories that can greatly increase the versatility and usefulness owners get from their decks or patios. A screen room add-on can easily turn an awning into a virtually bug-free outdoor room, side screening cuts down on wind and mist coming under the sides of awnings, and patio lights let people enjoy their decks evenings and nights.\n\nIt also can be used to cover the thermal solar panels in the summer.\n\nToday’s awnings come in two basic types: manually operated models which are opened by hand and motorized models which operate by electricity. Each offers its own advantages. Benefits include low-cost affordability, easy adaptability to almost any deck or patio, and support arms that can be angled back against the house or set vertically on the deck or patio floor. These arms provide extra support and stability which some owners prefer in windy areas, and increase the awning’s versatility by making the attachment of certain accessories available.\n\nMotorized awnings have no vertical supports. Instead, they have retracting lateral arms, creating an unobstructed shaded area. These awnings are operated by an electric motor, generally hidden inside the roller bar of the awning. The arms open and close the awning at the touch of a wireless remote control or a wall-mounted switch.\n\nModern awnings may be constructed with covers of various types of fabrics, aluminium, corrugated fibreglass, corrugated polycarbonate or other materials. High winds can cause damage to an extended awning, and newer designs incorporate a wind sensor for automatic retraction in certain conditions.\n\nModern awnings are rated for wind tolerance based on width, length, number of supporting arms, and material. Modern awning design incorporates urethane compression joints, steel support structures, and wind sensors. Such designs are currently in use at the White House, Grand Central Station, and The Kremlin.\n\nAluminium awnings have long been popular in residential applications throughout the world. They are available in many colors and are usually painted with a baked-on enamel paint. Among the many benefits of these awnings are cooler temperatures inside the home, shade for your patio, extending the life of furniture and window treatments. Possibly the most beneficial feature of the awnings are the fact that they have a usable life of well over 40 years.\n\nSome aluminum awnings are designed to be folded down and fastened to protect windows in case of storms such as hurricanes.\n\nRetractable awnings are now becoming very popular with homeowners in the United States. They have been popular in Europe for many years, due to higher energy costs and lack of air conditioning. \n\nSome retractable awnings can include photovoltaic cells or rollable solar panels to generate electricity. \n\nRetractable awnings can include the following types:\n\nRetractable patio cover systems are the latest \"entry\" in to the retractable market. Most of these systems are water-proof as compared to water-resistant (lateral arm awnings) and therefore allow no water penetration through the fabric \"roof\" section. These systems meet Beaufort scale wind loads up to Beaufort 10 (55 - 63 mph) depending on model and size. Another advantage of retractable patio cover systems is that they can be enclosed on the front and sides using solar shade screens. This allows for an \"outdoor room\" that can be heated in the winter and air conditioned in the summer.\n\nThese are a modern version of the old storefront crank-up awnings of the last century. Tension arms and a roller bar are supported by a torsion bar. The torsion bar a/k/a square bar fits into wall or soffit or fascia or roof mounted brackets that spread the load to the wall or roof truss. Hand-cranked awnings are still available, but motorized awnings are now most common. The motor is inside the roller tube that the fabric rolls around and therefore is not visible. Many motors now have a built-in receiver and are operated by remote control, smartphone, tablet or home automation.\n\nLateral arm awnings are also known as folding arm deck or patio awnings, as they can extend / project as far as and be as wide as or more - thus covering a large outdoor space.\n\nCommonly used to shade a window, with a roller tube at the top, spring-loaded side arms, and a motor, crank or tape-pull operator. Awnings with sides are commonly known as traditional style awnings as they have been used for many years dating back to the early 19th century using cotton canvas fabric. Canvas was replaced in the 1960s by more acrylic materials and polyester in more recent times driven by a focus on the environment. Traditional style awnings are appropriate for historical buildings and are still popular today using a more weather resistant fabric and a rope and pulley system for retracting the awnings. Awnings without sides do not provide as much sun protection as those with sides. Awnings without sides come in many different styles. Drop Arm Awnings without sides come with roller tubes at the top and are available with motors and wind sensors for automatic retraction. Spear Awnings are made without sides and are made with Wrought Iron Frames and they can be retracted with a rope and pulley system but are not available with motors.\n\nAwnings with sides provide the best sun protection for east and west facing windows. North and South facing windows can be protected from the sun with awnings without sides. Awnings provide shade keeping your house cooler, awnings are also great shade creators around porches, decks and patios.\n\nA portable pop-up canopy or tent provides a cost effective temporary solution to people who want to enjoy shade. The portable designs offer versatility to take the unit to social events. The frame usually incorporates an accordion style truss which folds up compactly.\n\nShade screens utilize acrylic canvas or a mesh fabric, which allows some view-through while blocking the sun's rays. The roller at the top may be hand-cranked or motorized. The fabric is gravity-fed, with a weighted bottom rail pulling the fabric down between guide rails or guy wires. Exterior shades are much more effective at blocking heat than interior shades, since they block the heat before it enters the glass. This style of framed screen is typically done by professional installers, because of the specialized frames and tools required. A recent advancement is frame-less shade screens, which allows a \"DIY-er\" to install their own exterior shades. Solar shade screens can also be installed at the end of awnings to provide horizontal shade during early morning or late afternoon sun positions.\n\nRetractable solar window awnings are made from fabric. They are resistant to hail and harsh winter weather. Many solar window awnings can be programmed to open and close automatically in response to the sun.\n\nShade sails provide semi-horizontal shading. They can be demounted with some difficulty and are usually left in place year round. Retractable versions also exist, with greater cost but also greater utility, as they can be retracted to admit winter sun if required.\n\nIndustrial Fabrics Association International (IFAI) is a trade organization which includes the awning trade, with a division called the Professional Awning Manufacturers Association (PAMA).\n\nConstruction Specifications Institute (CSI) Division 10 MasterFormat 2004 Edition:\n\n\nCSI MasterFormat 1995 Edition:\n\n"}
{"id": "960804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=960804", "title": "Boxer Protocol", "text": "Boxer Protocol\n\nThe Boxer Protocol was signed on September 7, 1901, between the Qing Empire of China and the Eight-Nation Alliance that had provided military forces (Austria-Hungary, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States) plus Belgium, Spain and the Netherlands after China's defeat in the intervention to put down the Boxer Rebellion at the hands of the Eight-Power Expeditionary Force. It is often regarded as one of the Unequal Treaties.\nThe Qing dynasty was by no means defeated when the Allies took control of Beijing. The Allies had to temper the demands they sent in a message to Xi'an to get the Dowager Empress to agree with them; for instance, China did not have to give up any land. Many of the Dowager Empress's advisers in the Imperial Court insisted that the war be carried on against the foreigners, arguing that China could defeat the foreigners since it was the disloyal and traitorous people within China who allowed Beijing and Tianjin to be captured by the Allies, and the interior of China was impenetrable. The Dowager was practical, and decided that the terms were generous enough for her to acquiesce and stop the war, when she was assured of her continued reign.\n\nThe Boxer Protocol was signed on September 7, 1901, in the Spanish Legation in Beijing:\n\n\nand\n\n\n450 million taels of fine silver (around 18,000 tonnes, worth approx. US$333 million or £67 million at the exchange rates of the time) were to be paid as indemnity over a course of 39 years to the eight nations involved.\n\nThe Chinese paid the indemnity in gold on a rising scale with a 4% interest charge until the debt was amortized on December 31, 1940. After 39 years, the amount was almost 1 billion taels (precisely 982,238,150), or ~ at 1.2 ozt/tael.\n\nThe sum was to be distributed as follows: Russia 28.97%, Germany 20.02%, France 15.75%, United Kingdom 11.25%, Japan 7.73%, United States 7.32%, Italy 7.32%, Belgium 1.89%, Austria-Hungary 0.89%, Netherlands 0.17%, Spain 0.03%, Portugal 0.021%, Sweden and Norway 0.014%.\n\n\nThe French Catholic vicar apostolic, Msgr. Alfons Bermyn, wanted foreign troops garrisoned in Inner Mongolia, but the Governor refused. Bermyn resorted to lies, and falsely petitioned the Manchu Enming to send troops to Hetao where Prince Duan's Mongol troops and General Dong Fuxiang's Muslim troops allegedly threatened Catholics. It turned out that Bermyn had created the incident as a hoax. One of the false reports claimed that Dong Fuxiang wiped out Belgian missionaries in Mongolia and was going to massacre Catholics in Taiyuan.\n\nThe Qing did not capitulate to all the foreign demands. The Manchu Governor Yuxian was executed, but the Imperial court refused to execute the Chinese General Dong Fuxiang, although both were anti-foreign and had been accused of encouraging the killing of foreigners during the rebellion. Instead, General Dong Fuxiang lived a life of luxury and power in \"exile\" in his home province of Gansu.\n\nIn addition to sparing Dong Fuxiang, the Qing also refused to exile the Boxer supporter Prince Zaiyi to Xinjiang, as the foreigners demanded. Instead, he moved to Alashan, west of Ningxia, and lived in the residence of the local Mongol prince. He then moved to Ningxia during the Xinhai Revolution when the Muslims took control of Ningxia, and finally, moved to Xinjiang with Sheng Yun.\nPrince Duan \"went no farther than Manchuria for exile, and was heard of there in 1908\".\n\nOn December 28, 1908, the United States remitted $11,961,121.76 of its share of the Indemnity to support the education of Chinese students in the United States and the construction of Tsinghua University in Beijing, thanks to the efforts of the Chinese ambassador Liang Cheng.\n\nWhen China declared war on Germany and Austria in 1917, it suspended the combined German and Austrian share of the Boxer Indemnity, which totaled 20.91 percent. At the Paris Peace Conference, Beijing succeeded in completely revoking the German and Austrian shares of the Boxer Indemnity.\n\nThe history surrounding Russia's share of the Boxer Indemnity is the most complex of all the nations involved. On December 2, 1918 the Bolsheviks issued an official decree abolishing Russia's share of the Indemnity (146). Upon the arrival of Lev Karakhan in Beijing during the Fall of 1923, however, it became clear that the Soviet Union expected to retain control over how the Russian share was to be spent. Though Karakhan was initially hesitant to follow the United States' example of directing the funds toward education, he soon insisted in private that the Russian share had to be used for that purpose and during February 1924, presented a proposal stating that the \"Soviet portion of the Boxer Indemnity would be allocated to Chinese educational institutions.\"\n\nOn March 14, 1924, Karakhan completed a draft Sino-Soviet agreement stating \"The government of the USSR agrees to renounce the Russian portion of the Boxer Indemnity.\" Copies of these terms were published in the Chinese press, and the ensuing positive public reaction encouraged other countries to match the USSR's terms. On May 21, 1924, the U.S. Congress agreed to remit to China the final $6,137,552.90 of the American share. Ten days later, however, it became apparent that the USSR did not intend to carry through on its earlier promise of full renunciation. When the final Sino-Soviet agreement was announced, it specified that Russia's share would be used to promote education in China and that the Soviet government would retain control over how the money was to be used, an exact parallel to the U.S. remittance of 1908.\n\nOn March 3, 1925, Great Britain completed arrangements to use its share of the Boxer Indemnity to support railway construction in China. On April 12, France asked that its indemnity be used to reopen a defunct Sino-French Bank. Italy signed an agreement on October 1 to spend its share on the construction of steel bridges. The Netherlands' share paid for harbor and land reclamation. The Netherlands also used its indemnity for the establishment of the Sinological Institute at Leiden University. The Belgian funds were earmarked to be spent on railway material in Belgium. Finally, Japan's indemnity was transferred to develop aviation in China under Japanese oversight.\n\nOnce these countries' approximately 40 percent of the Boxer Indemnity was added to Germany's and Austria's combined 20.91 percent, the United States' 7.32 percent, and the Soviet Union's 28.97 percent share, the Beijing government had accounted for over 98 percent of the entire Boxer Indemnity. Hence, by 1927, Beijing had almost completely revoked Boxer Indemnity payments abroad and had succeeded in redirecting the payments for use within China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8872722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8872722", "title": "Carole E. Handler", "text": "Carole E. Handler\n\nCarole Enid Handler is an American lawyer who specializes in intellectual property litigation in the areas of trademark, copyright and antitrust laws, particularly those related to entertainment and media industry. She is commonly known as the \"lawyer who saved Spiderman.\"\n\nHandler's noteworthy achievement is a case considered to be a landmark case that was won on an ironic, yet relatively simple, but critical oversight. At issue were the sale of intellectual property rights to certain Marvel Enterprises characters that Marvel's new owners thought it bought with the company. The claim was successful because, although the purchaser of those rights had a valid signed contract with the former owners of Marvel, the actual new rights were never registered with the United States Copyright Office. Handler's discovery of that fact, and her interpretation of IP law during the court proceedings, caused the rights to revert to Marvel, which was bought by Avi Arad and Ike Perlmutter.\n\nHandler has been working with studios to develop a legal licensing system for digital video. Handler argues that the idea of Creative Commons, created by Stanford University professor Larry Lessig, is an \"interesting compromise\" - allowing for protection for copyrightable interests of the video itself while also acknowledging that the technology being used that causes the video to be accessed online modifies the licensing arrangement.\n\nAside from Handler's experience in motion picture and entertainment licensing, and she has worked with IP issues dealing with energy, pharmaceuticals and medical devices.\n\nAmong her antitrust work, Handler has represented the National Basketball Association and several of the major motion picture studios defending them against \"block booking\" (When studios sell its films in bundles of 'all-or-nothing' packages; meaning that theaters were required to buy some of the studio's mediocre pictures along with the more salable ones).\n\nIn 1998, Handler took on the case of Holocaust rescuer (Righteous Gentile) Irene Gut Opdyke when Opdyke tried to re-gain the rights to tell the \"authorized\" account of her life story, which she had previously assigned in a lawful motion picture option agreement. Handler worked with the parties to reach an agreement and the case was dismissed with prejudice. In an ironic twist, after the trial, all parties agreed that the promoter did \"nothing wrong.\" Opdyke publicly acknowledged the promoter who she sued by thanking him in her book, “In My Hands” and agreed to give him a producer credit for the eventual \"authorized\" motion picture about her life story.\n\nHandler has been a partner at Kaye Scholer LLP., O’Donnell & Shaeffer LLP and Thelen Reid & Priest LLP.\n\nHandler received her undergraduate degree from Harvard College and her law degree from the University of Pennsylvania Law School in 1975, and she then went on to achieve a master's degree in city planning from Penn, and also studied architecture at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\nHandler was named one of the \"Top 50 Women Litigators in California\" by \"Daily Journal Extra\" in 2005, 2004, 2003 and 2002. In 2001, and was named one of the \"Lawyers of the Year\" by \"California Lawyer\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30728166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30728166", "title": "Cartesio Oktató és Szolgáltató bt", "text": "Cartesio Oktató és Szolgáltató bt\n\nCartesio Oktató és Szolgáltató bt (2008) C-210/06 is a European company law case concerning the right of freedom of establishment.\n\nA Hungarian limited partnership wished to transfer its operational headquarters to Italy, but stay subject to Hungarian law. The Hungarian Commercial Court refused to enter the new address in the companies register as it was not possible under Hungarian law. The European Court of Justice was sent a reference under TEC article 234 as to whether the company had a right to transfer its headquarters given TEC articles 43 and 48 (now TFEU articles 49 and 54).\n\nThe European Court of Justice held that without any applicable EU legislation, the question of whether a company formed under one member state's law could transfer its registered office to another without losing legal personality was a question of national law. The question of whether the company's right of freedom of establishment was restricted only arose under article 43 if it could be established that the company actually had a right to that freedom. This was determined by normal law. On the one hand a company seat change may result in changing applicable national law, and there a barrier to conversion was prohibited under TEC article 43 unless it is shown that the restriction is in the public interest. On the other hand, a company could wish, as here, to change its seat without changing national law, but that would be within the discretion of the national law in question.\n\nIn plain words, the press release issue by the European Court of Justice stated the following:\n\n- The Member State of incorporation can prevent a company from transferring its seat to another Member State of the Union.\n\n- On the other hand, the freedom of establishment enables a company to move to another Member State by converting itself into a form of company governed by the law of that State, without having to be wound up or enter into liquidation during its conversion, if the law of the host Member State so permits.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22304434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22304434", "title": "Caymanian constitutional referendum, 2009", "text": "Caymanian constitutional referendum, 2009\n\nA referendum on a draft constitution was held in the Cayman Islands on 20 May 2009 alongside general elections. The new constitution was approved by 63% of voters, and by the Privy Council on 10 June.\n\nSince around 2000 the Cayman Islands had sought a new constitution, in order to cement the United Kingdom's possession of the islands. On 22 May 2008 the Caymanian government had announced the question and that it was aiming to hold the referendum in July. However, following an announcement on 27 June, the referendum was postponed until the 2009 general elections in order to give time to negotiate and agree the constitution with the UK. The negotiations took place in January and February 2009 and a consultation started in the islands on 11 February 2009. \n\nOn 24 February the Legislative Assembly passed the Referendum (Constitutional Modernisation) Bill, 2009. The referendum was to be held in accordance with Article 29, paragraph 2 of the constitution, and required a majority to pass. \n"}
{"id": "9345768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9345768", "title": "Central Election Commission of the Russian Federation", "text": "Central Election Commission of the Russian Federation\n\nThe Central Election Commission of the Russian Federation () is the superior power body responsible for conducting federal elections and overseeing local elections in the Russian Federation founded in September 1993. It consists of 15 members. The President of Russia, State Duma and Federation Council of Russia each appoint five members. In turn, these members elect the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Secretary. The Commission is in power for a four-year term.\n\nOn 30 January 2007, amendments to the Russian election legislation, which would allow people without higher education in law to become members of the Central Election Commission, were passed by the President of Russia.\n\nThe CEC of Russia is a member of the Association of Central and Eastern European Election Officials.\n\nThe composition of the Central Election Commission, as of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15255298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15255298", "title": "Chazakah", "text": "Chazakah\n\nChazakah (Hebrew חזקה, \"khazakah\", legal acquisition by right of possession) is a Midrashic and Talmudic concept, the presumption of ownership of a personal status (such as being of kohen or levite status) or of land, or tangible property.\n\nThe Hebrew word חזקה is a noun form of חזק, which can be translated as \"strong holding\".\n\nThe \"status quo kohen\" () is a rabbinic title which legitimates Kohen status to a Jewish Kohen who—amongst multiple criteria—exhibits conduct exemplary of and is recognized by his peers and community as such.\n\nThe tannaic rabbi Jose ben Halafta extolled the soundness of this Chazakah by labeling it a basis for the entire Halachic concept of \"chazakah\". It is based on this chazakah that all \"poskim\" agree—unanimously—to forbid the status quo Kohen from marrying a divorcee.\n\nOnce a Kohen is established as a \"Kohein Muchzak\" it is a \"mitzvah\" to sanctify him and assist him in abstaining from the restriction that apply to a Kohen (for example, Prohibition of Kohen defilement by the dead).\n\nThe chazakah of the Kohen is deemed valid and in good standing unless a valid objection to his lineage is made before a Beit-Din.\n\nThe Talmud counts as a demonstration of ownership of land, a \"chazakah\" of uncontested usage of property for three years.\n\nThe conceptional terminology is \"default status\", \"agreed properties\" or status quo of an object, land or person − usually when sufficient proof is missing or unavailable. The concept is relevant to many aspects of Talmudic law and Halakha.\n\nThere are various ways how something can get the certain state of chazakah:\n\n"}
{"id": "29914894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29914894", "title": "Christian state", "text": "Christian state\n\nA Christian state is a country that recognizes a form of Christianity as its official religion and often has a state church, which is a Christian denomination that supports the government and is supported by the government.\n\nHistorically, the nations of Armenia, Abyssinia (Ethiopia) , Georgia, as well as the Roman Empire and Byzantine Empire declared themselves as Christian states.\n\nToday, several nations officially identify themselves as Christian states or have state churches, including Argentina, Costa Rica, Denmark, England, Faroe Islands, Greece, Greenland, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Malta, Monaco, Norway, Samoa, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vatican City, and Zambia. A Christian state stands in contrast to a secular state, an atheist state, or another religious state, such as a Jewish state, or an Islamic state. Though many Christian states have turned secular and adopted the Separation of Church and State, church organizations still have much influence in the institutions of these nations, include hospitals and schools with government funding.\n\nIn 201 AD or earlier, under king Abgar the Great, the Kingdom of Osroene became the first Christian state. By 301 AD, the Kingdom of Armenia became the second state to declare Christianity as its official religion following the conversion of the Royal House of the Arsacids in Armenia. The Armenian Apostolic Church is the world's oldest national church. Later, in AD 380, three Roman emperors issued the Edict of Thessalonica (\"Cunctos populos\"), making the Roman Empire a Christian state, and establishing Nicene Christianity, in the form of its State Church, as its official religion. \nAfter the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the late 5th century, the \"Byzantine Empire\" under the emperor Justinian (reigned 527-565), became the world's predominant Christian state, based on Roman law, Greek culture, and the Greek language.\" In this Christian state, in which nearly all of its subjects upheld faith in Jesus, an \"enormous amount of artistic talent was poured into the construction of churches, church ceremonies, and church decoration\". John Binns describes this era, writing that:\n\nAs a Christian state, Armenia \"embraced Christianity as the religion of the King, the nobles, and the people\". In AD 326, according to official tradition of the Georgian Orthodox Church, following the conversion of Mirian and Nana, the country of Georgia became a Christian state, the Emperor Constantine the Great sending clerics for baptising people. In the 4th century AD, in the Kingdom of Aksum, after Ezana's conversion to the faith, this empire also became a Christian state.\n\nThe Constitution guarantees freedom of religion. Although it enforces neither an official nor a state faith, it gives Roman Catholicism a preferential status.\n\nThe constitution of Costa Rica states that \"The Roman Catholic and Apostolic Religion is the religion of the State\". As such, Catholic Christian holy days are recognized by the government and \"public schools provide religious education\", although parents are able to opt-out their children if they choose to do so.\n\nAs early as the 11th century AD, \"Denmark was considered to be a Christian state\", with the Church of Denmark, a member of the Lutheran World Federation, being the state church. Wasif Shadid, a full professor at Leiden University writes that:\n\n82.1% of the population of Denmark are members of the Lutheran Church of Denmark, which is \"officially headed by the queen of Denmark\". Furthermore, clergy \"in the Church of Denmark are civil servants employed by the Ministry of Ecclesiastical Affairs\" and the \"economic base of the Church of Denmark is state-collected church taxes combined with a direct state subsidiary (12%), which symbolically covers the expenses of the Church of Denmark to run the civil registration and the burial system for all citizens.\"\n\nBarbara Yorke writes that the \"Carolingian Renaissance heightened appreciation within England of the role of king and church in a Christian state.\" As such, \n\nChristian religious education is taught to children in primary and secondary schools in the United Kingdom, with an act of collective worship \"of a broadly Christian character\" being required daily.\n\nThe Church of the Faroe Islands is the state church of Faroe Islands.\n\nGreece is a Christian state, with the Greek Orthodox Church playing \"a dominant role in the life of the country\".\n\nBeing an autonomous constituent country within the Kingdom of Denmark, the Church of Denmark is the established church of Greenland through the Constitution of Denmark:\n\nThis applies to all of the Kingdom of Denmark, except for the Faroe Islands, as the Church of the Faroe Islands became independent in 2007.\n\nAround AD 1000, Iceland became a Christian state. The \"Encyclopedia of Protestantism\" states that:\n\nAll public schools have mandatory education in Christianity, although an exemption may be considered by the Minister of Education.\n\nLiechtenstein's constitution designates the Catholic Church as being the state Church of that country. In public schools, per article 16 of the Constitution of Liechtenstein, religious education is given by Church authorities.\n\nSection Two of the Constitution of Malta specifies the state's religion as being the Roman Catholic Apostolic Religion. It holds that the \"authorities of the Roman Catholic Apostolic Church have the duty to teach which principles are right and which are wrong\" and that \"religious teaching of the Roman Catholic Apostolic Faith shall be provided in all State schools as part of compulsory education\".\n\nArticle 9 of the Constitution of Monaco describes \"\"La religion catholique, apostolique et romaine\" [the catholic, apostolic and Roman religion]\" as the religion of the state.\n\nCole Durham and Tore Sam Lindholm, writing in 2013, stated that \"For a period of one thousand years Norway has been a kingdom with a Christian \"state church\"\" and that a decree went out in 1739 ordering that \"Elementary schooling for all Norwegian children became mandatory, so that all Norwegians should be able to read the Bible and the Lutheran Catechism firsthand.\" The modern Constitution of Norway stipulates that \"The Church of Norway, an Evangelical-Lutheran church, will remain the Established Church of Norway and will as such be supported by the State.\" As such, the \"Norwegian constitution decrees that Lutheranism is the official religion of the State and that the King is the supreme temporal head of the Church.\" The administration of the Church \"is shared between the Ministry for Church, Education and Research centrally and municipal authorities locally\", and the Church of Norway \"depends on state and local taxes\". The Church of Norway is responsible for the \"maintenance of church buildings and cemeteries\". John T. Flint writes that \"Over 90 percent of the population are married by state church clergymen, have their children baptized and confirmed, and finally are buried with a church service.\"\n\nSamoa became a Christian state in 2017. Article 1 of the Samoan Constitution states that “Samoa is a Christian nation founded of God the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit”.\n\nTonga became a Christian state under George Tupou I in the 19th century, with the Free Wesleyan Church, a member of the World Methodist Council, being established as the country's state Church. Under the rule of George I, there was established a \"rigorous constitutional clause regulating observation of the Sabbath\".\n\nThe Church of Tuvalu, a Reformed Church in the Congregationalist tradition, is the state church of Tuvalu and was established as such in 1991. The Constitution of Tuvalu identifies Tuvalu as \"an independent State based on Christian principles\".\n\nVatican City is a Christian state, in which the \"Pope is \"ex officio\" simultaneously leader of the Roman Catholic Church as well as Head of State and Head of the Government of the State of the Vatican City; he also possesses (\"de jure\") absolute authority over the legislative, executive and judicial branches.\"\n\nJeroen Temperman, a professor of international law at Erasmus University Rotterdam writes that:\n\nAfter \"Zambia declared itself a Christian nation in 1991\", \"the nation's vice president urged citizens to 'have a Christian orientation in all fields, at all levels'.\"\n\nA number of countries have a national church which is not Established (as the official religion of the nation), but is nonetheless recognised under civil law as being the country's acknowledged religious denomination. Whilst these are not Christian states, the official Christian national church is likely to have certain residual state functions in relation to state occasions and ceremonial. Examples include Scotland (Church of Scotland) and Sweden (Church of Sweden). A national church typically has a monopoly on official state recognition, although unusually Finland has two national churches (the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland and the Finnish Orthodox Church), both recognised under civil law as joint official churches of the nation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44408590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44408590", "title": "Climate-adaptive building shell", "text": "Climate-adaptive building shell\n\nClimate-adaptive building shell (CABS) is a term in building engineering that describes the group of facades and roofs that interact with the variability in their environment in a dynamic way. Conventional buildings have static building envelopes, and can therefore not act in response to changing weather conditions and occupant requirements. Climate adaptive building shells, on the other hand do have the ability to change with time. Well-designed CABS have two main functions: they contribute to energy-saving for heating, cooling, ventilation and lighting; and they induce a positive impact on the indoor environmental quality of buildings.\n\nLoonen et al. defines CABS as follows:\n\nA climate adaptive building shell has the ability to repeatedly and reversibly change some of its functions, features or behavior over time in response to changing performance requirements and variable boundary conditions, and does this with the aim of improving overall building performance.\n\nModern construction methods, developments in material sciences, and availability of controllable kinetic façade components now offer rich possibilities for innovative building envelope solutions that respond better to the environmental context, thereby allowing the façade to ‘‘behave’’ as a living organism.\nNature is regarded as one of the most prominent inspiration sources for CABS. Adaptability is pervasive in nature, and efforts in biomimetics to convey nature's time-tested ideas to the context of buildings are rewarding. The way people sweat, shiver and adjust clothes has been used by many as a metaphor to conceive the building skin as a living membrane. Likewise, several CABS concepts imitate tropism: plants’ directional growth or rotation in the direction of certain environmental triggers. Both phototropism (i.e. changing in response to light) and heliotropism (i.e. changing in response to the sun) have been transformed effectively into CABS concepts, enabling timely collection and rejection of solar energy [59] and [60].\n\nCABS is only one designation for a facade concept that can be described by a range of different terms. Several variations on the term 'adaptive' can be used, including: active, advanced, dynamic, intelligent, interactive, kinetic, responsive, smart and switchable. In addition, the concepts of responsive architecture, kinetic architecture, intelligent building are closely related. The main difference with CABS is that the adaptation takes place at the building shell level, whereas the other concepts consider a whole-building approach.\n\nThe adaptable mechanisms in CABS can be divided in two classes. The adaptive behaviour is either based on a change in properties or behaviour at the macro scale, or at the micro scale.\nThe first type of adaptability in building shells is often also referred to as 'kinetic envelopes', which implies that a certain kind of observable motion is present. Adaptation on the macro scale usually results in changes in the building shell's configuration via moving parts. The types of motion that can be observed vary widely, and are typically described by one of the following gerunds: folding, sliding, expanding, creasing, hinging, rolling, inflating, fanning, rotating, curling, etc.\nIn the other type of CABS (micro scale), changes directly affect the internal structure of a material. Here, adaptability is either manifested via changes in thermophysical or opaque optical properties, or through the exchange of energy from one form to another. Smart materials such as shape-memory alloys or temperature-responsive polymers are often applied to achieve this type of adaptation.\n\nAlthough the concept of CABS is still relatively new, several hundreds of concepts can be found in buildings all over the world. The following list shows an overview of notable examples.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45314374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45314374", "title": "Clèmerson Merlin Clève", "text": "Clèmerson Merlin Clève\n\nClèmerson Merlin Clève (born November 21, 1958) is a Brazilian jurist, Law school professor, and lawyer.\n\nOne of the most respected constitutionalists in Brazil, he is a full professor of constitutional law at the Federal University of Paraná (UFPR) (undergraduate, LL.M, and J.S.D.). Clève is also a full professor of constitutional law and president at the Autonomous University Center of Brazil (UniBrasil), and a visiting professor at Universidad Pablo de Olavide – Máster Universitario en Derechos Humanos, Interculturalidad y Desarrollo (LL.M) and Doctorado en Ciencias Jurídicas y Políticas (J.S.D.) (Sevilla, España). Clève also works as the institutional leader of the UFPR's 'Center of Constitutional Investigations' ().\n\nClève completed the graduation at Federal University of Paraná Law School in 1980 and his LLM at the Federal University of Santa Catarina in 1983, and his JSD in public law at the Faculté de Droit of the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium in 1985, and at the Pontifical Catholic University of São Paulo in 1992. He became the first full professor of constitutional law at the Federal University of Paraná in 1992, with the thesis entitled \"The judicial review in the Brazilian Law\". Nowadays, this work is a classic in the Brazilian juridical literature.\nClève is also a member of the Academy of Juridical Literature of Paraná (Chair n. 40), and a member of the International Association of Constitutional Law. Clève is member of several editorial boards on specialized constitutional law reviews. Acting as an attorney and a legal adviser, his firm is based on the city of Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil.\n\nIn February, March, April, June 2015, and in January, 2017 his name showed up several times in the Brazilian press as one of the most remembered to a chair on the Supreme Federal Court.\n\nIn 2017, Clève was quoted in the press as the academic supervisor of Sérgio Moro and João Pedro Gebran Neto, judges on cases of Operation Car Wash, at Master in Constitutional Law of Federal University of Paraná Graduate Program.\n\nClève was indicated to Prêmio Jabuti in Juridical Literature 2015 by his book \"Fundamental Rights and Constitutional Jurisdiction\".\n\nClève was Professor of Public International Law at UFPR (1986–89); Public Attorney of the State of Paraná (1986–2009); Chair's Legal Adviser of Constituent Process of the State Constitution of Paraná (1989); Republic's Public Prosecutor (1990–92); Coordinator (1992–94), and Vice-Director (1992–96) of the Federal University of Paraná Law School; and Substitute Judge of the Regional Electoral Court of Paraná (1999–2000).\n\nSome main cases which he promoted or participated:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49847177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49847177", "title": "Computation of time", "text": "Computation of time\n\n\"For the treatise on time written by Bede the Venerable, see The Reckoning of Time.\"\n\nIn the canon law of the Catholic Church, the computation of time, also translated as the reckoning of time (Latin: supputatio temporis), is the manner by which legally-specified periods of time are calculated according to the norm of the canons on the computation of time. The application of laws frequently involves a question of time: generally three months must elapse after their promulgation before they go into effect; some obligations have to be fulfilled within a certain number of days, or weeks, or months. Hence the need of the rules for the computation of time. With the Code of 1917 and the reformed Code of 1983, the legislator has formulated these rules with a clearness and precision that they never had before.\nThese rules hold in all canonical matters: universal ordinances, precepts, rescripts, privileges, judicial sentences; but they have nothing to do with problems of chronology or such questions as the determination of the date for the celebration of Easter.\n\nThey are not absolute rules, but should be followed when no others have been expressly laid down; liturgical laws regarding, for example, the beginning of the ecclesiastical year, of the solemnity of a feast, remain unchanged. The former use of 'time' in indulgences (prior to Paul VI's revision of sacred indulgences) had special provisions in the 1917 Code (cc. 921, 922, 923, 931), and it is stated that in what pertains to the fulfilment or enforcement of contracts, the prescriptions of the civil law should be complied with, unless there has been some other agreement to the contrary. Nothing prevents inferior legislators from adopting different rules for the application of their own laws, and it is clearly implied that private persons themselves have the same right in matters which depend on their will, like determining when an article sold should be delivered, paid for, etc.\n\nBy useful time is meant in law the time granted for the exercise or prosecution of one's rights in such a way that it does not run if one is prevented from using it through ignorance or some other cause.\n\nContinuous time suffers no delay or interruption from one's ignorance or impossibility to act. \n\nThus colleges which possess the right of appointment to a vacant office are given three months of useful time to exercise it, which implies that if they were prevented, \"v.g.\" for ten days, from meeting for the election they would have that many additional days to exercise their right. On the contrary, capitular chapters have eight days after the vacancy of the episcopal see has been made known to them to elect a Vicar Capitular, and it is specified that if no election has been made within that time, whatever be the cause, that right devolves to the Metropolitan (cf. 1917 CIC cc. 161, 432).\n\nMonths are computed according to the calendar from the date of publication. A \"canonical month\" (in contradistinction to a \"calendar month\") is a period of 30 days, while a \"calendar month\" is a continuous month. \n\nThe \"vacatio legis\" is computed according to the calendar; for example, if a law is promulgated on 2 November, and the \"vacatio legis\" is 3 months, then the law takes effect on 2 February. So a universal law has a \"vacatio legis\" of approximately 90 days—3 months taken according to the calendar—while a particular law has a \"vacatio legis\" of approximately 30 days—1 month taken according to the calendar—unless specified to the contrary.\n\nFrom 1918 to 1983, Book I, Title III of the \"1917 Code of Canon Law\" regulated the computation of time in the Latin Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "1386964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1386964", "title": "Constitutional Court of Croatia", "text": "Constitutional Court of Croatia\n\nConstitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia () is an institution that acts as the interpreter and guardian of the Croatian Constitution and which monitors the conformity of laws with the Constitution as well as protection of human rights and freedoms of citizens that are guaranteed by the Constitution. It is considered to be \"de facto\" the highest judicial authority because it can overturn Supreme Court decisions on the basis of constitutional breaches. It is not considered as being part of the judicial branch of government, but rather a court \"sui generis\", and it is therefore often colloquially referred to as a \"fourth branch of government\", alongside the traditional model of tripartite separation of powers into the executive (Government/President of the Republic), legislative (Parliament) and judicial (Supreme Court) branches.\n\nAccording to the Articles 126-132 of the Croatian Constitution, Constitutional Court shall:\n\n\n\"Act of Supplements and Alterations to the Law on Public Gathering\" stipulated that no public gatherings could be held within 100 meters of buildings in which the Croatian Parliament, President of Republic, the Croatian Government or the Constitutional Court are located or are in session (the Parliament, Government and the Court are all located at St. Mark's Square) On July 6, 2011, Constitutional Court ruled that this law, which restricts a Constitutional liberty - the right to free gathering, was not passed by the majority necessary to override the Constitution on that matter. The Court's decision was that the law shall be put out of effect at a date specified by the Court. The Court also provided Parliament with the necessary number of representatives which must confirm the Act to make it legitimate.\n\nOn November 14, 2013, Constitutional Court in a 13–0 statement sent to the State Election Commission stated that there is no constitutional obstacle to hold a 2013 referendum on defining marriage as a union between men and a woman, in the same time pointing out that the referendum revealed numerous problems in the \"Referendum law\" and opened a number of legal questions that required answers. Nevertheless, the Court stressed that decision on the referendum was passed by a majority of 104 MPs and that since it was made with more votes than the majority needed to even change the Constitution itself, the referendum should be held. In addition, the Court asked Croatian Parliament to \"provide a stable regulatory framework of the referendum process that meets the standards of a democratic society as soon as possible\". The Court also decided that \"any amendments to the Constitution which would define marriage as being union between a man and a woman should not have any effect on the further development of the legal framework of the institution of same-sex unions in accordance with the constitutional requirement that everyone in Croatia has the right to be respected and right of legal protection of their personal and family life and human dignity\". The Court pointed out that it had never received any request or proposal to review the constitutionality of the provisions of the \"Family Law\" that regulated marriage as a union between a man and woman, or provisions of the \"Law on Same-Sex Unions\". The Court therefore considered that the referendum on the definition of marriage is not a referendum on the right to respect for family life, because it is constitutionally guaranteed to all persons, regardless of sex and gender, and is under the direct protection of both, the Constitutional Court itself and the European Court of Human Rights. In conclusion, the Court warned that \"incorporation of legal institutes in the constitution shouldn't become a systemic phenomenon\" and that exceptional individual cases must be justified by being connected, for example, with deep-rooted social and cultural characteristics of the society.\n\nOn February 21, 2017, Constitutional Court announced that it held in a 12–1 decision that it won't accept constitutional complaints submitted by the conservative NGO's \"Croatian Movement for Life and Family\" (in 1991) and \"In the Name of the Family\" (in 2010) to review conformity of the 1978 \"Law on Health Measures for the Realization of the Right to Freely Decide on Childbirth\" with the Constitution. While presenting the decision, Chief Justice Miroslav Šeparović stated that abortion was a controversial and a deep moral, philosophical, legal and medical issue about which there was no consensus and which therefore causes serious divisions in many societies, adding that the question on when life begins was not for the Court since it can only answer questions of legislation. According to Court's decision, it recognized constitutionally guaranteed value of unborn being and not its right to life but rather public interest of the state to protect it. The Court considered that abortion as a constitutional or a human right doesn't exist. According to the Court, the right of privacy of women, which includes the right of freedom, dignity and the protection of family and private life, exists, which gives woman autonomy to a certain period (in Croatia 10 weeks after conception) during which woman can freely decide whether she wants to give birth or not, but after that period of time birth becomes public interest which protects the right to life of the unborn. With this decision, the Court obligated the Croatian Parliament to enact new law within two years and has warned it to take into account the fact that existing law contains certain institutions that no longer exist in the Croatian constitutional order (since the Law is based on the 1974 Yugoslav Constitution) and that the adoption of the 1990 Croatian Constitution built a brand new legal and institutional framework of health, social, scientific and educational system. New law should determine the educational and preventive measures \"so that abortion should be an exception\". In sole dissenting opinion, Judge Miroslav Šumanović, among other things, stated that the 1978 Law should be formally and substantially aligned with the Constitution, abolished with a deferment effect, that the new one should be enacted, and that it is the duty of the state to protect the right to live of the unborn being. Following Court's decision, the Croatian Parliament is permanently banned from enacting a law which would effectively ban abortion.\n\nThe Constitutional Court consists of thirteen judges elected by the Croatian Parliament with qualified majority (101 out of 151) for a term of eight years from among notable jurists, especially judges, public prosecutors, lawyers and university professors of law. Court elects its President for a term of four years. Before they take the office, judges must take an oath in front of the President of the Republic.\n\nFollowing table contains names of sitting justices as of 11 October 2017 when the last appointments occurred.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4522762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4522762", "title": "Consumer Credit Protection Act of 1968", "text": "Consumer Credit Protection Act of 1968\n\nThe Consumer Credit Protection Act (CCPA) is a United States law , composed of several titles relating to consumer credit, mainly title I, the Truth in Lending Act, title II related to extortionate credit transactions, title III related to restrictions on wage garnishment, and title IV related to the National Commission on Consumer Finance.\n\nThe restrictions on wage garnishment guard employees from discharge by their employers because their wages have been garnished for any one indebtedness. The Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor enforces the provisions. The informed use of credit is administered by the United States Congress and stabilizes economic acts to be enhanced with competition informed unto various financial institutions that are engaged in extension of consumer credit that would be strengthened otherwise by informed credit use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42293362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42293362", "title": "Copyright (Amendment) Bill 2014", "text": "Copyright (Amendment) Bill 2014\n\nCopyright (Amendment) Bill 2014 (also dubbed Internet Article 23 (網絡23條) ) broadly refers to a set of proposed ordinances regulating the internet in Hong Kong. Under debate is the legality of derivative works popular on the internet, including doujin drawings, kuso, parodies, and the modification and adaptation of the lyrics in Hong Kong. Because of the upsurge of derivative work, the Hong Kong Government has amended related legislations in order to regulate the Internet, as well as legislation extending coverage to the existing network of Internet users. The name \"Internet Article 23\" comes from the controversial Hong Kong Basic Law Article 23 on national security that detractors say would curb personal freedoms.\n\nMany people believe that related regulations will let the derivative work bear criminal responsibility easily, including the modified or adapted song or pictures. As a result, it strived to public opposition. Due to the opposition, the Government shelved the amendment in May 2012. By July 2013 the Government launched a consultation once again in order to let people discuss on how this type of \"parody works\" can be exempted from criminal responsibility.\n\nActually, the Internet Article 23 includes the following legislations:\n\nOn the controversial topic of whether allowing derivative work in Hong Kong, intense debate occurs in the city. People who are against re-creation deem it necessary to introduce legislation to regulate or even prohibit derivative work, with an aim to protect the reputation and interest of the original author. They criticized those involved in derivative work for not respecting copyright. Those against the law amendment reasoned that derivative works encompass too broad a spectrum for the legal restrictions to be justified, and that the amended law could stifle mass creativity, violating the freedom of creation. Criticisms about the emphasis on self-interest of productions were also fired, stating that the new law shows a lack of consideration for the public's right to enjoy derivatives and inhibits the expression of opinions about the original work. It has also been brought out that the original author has the right to distribute their work, which includes the prohibition of use, adaptation, selling and all kinds of derivation. As it depends on the acknowledgement of the author, it is doubtful as to whether derivative works violate copyright. \n\nOn July 11, 2013, based on the issue users concern most about the amendment of the Copyright Ordinance, kuso work, the Government published the consultation document and offers three options, launched a three-month public consultation.\n\nThe first option has the same concessions proposed by the Government last year. Parody commonly disseminated on the Internet nowadays would likely fall outside the criminal net given that they would not normally displace the market of the copyright work and distribution of the same would unlikely cause “more than trivial economic prejudice” to the copyright owner. The second option specifies that the prejudicial distribution offense shall not apply to parodies, as long as the distribution in question meets the qualifying condition. The third option is recommended that, in accordance with Australia, Canada and the United Kingdom's experience and method, the distribution of parody would not infringe copyright and hence would not attract any criminal liability, as long as the act is considered as fair dealing.\n\nOn the same day, the Keyboard Frontline and the Concern Group of Rights of Derivative Works issued a joint declaration stated that they have received an email from the Intellectual Property Department in the afternoon on July 10, inviting related organizations concerned with the amendment of Copyright Ordinance to Central Government Offices at 11:30 am on July 11 to discuss parody issue of Copyright (Amendment) Bill. They believe that the Government invited them in less than 24 hours, questioned its sincerity, and suspected that the Government didn’t welcome the organization opposing Copyright (Amendment) Bill 2011 and created the illusion of \"consulted with the opposition\". They said \"very dissatisfied\" and boycotted the meeting, reaffirmed that they urge the Government to fully exempt the legal responsibility of derivative work.\n\nThe intention of publishing Internet Article 23 to ban derivative work\nOn 3 June 2011, the Hong Kong government published the draft of Copyright (Amendment) Bill 2011 version in the Gazette. In the draft, it included the netizens \"spoof\" and other creative works in the secondary infringement range. It then draw a lot of controversy, the netizens thought that it would deprive their freedom of speech and creative which should be protected by the Basic Law. There were lots of controversy among the society, the majority of the netizens tended to beg differ with the draft while some of the copyright holder tended to support. CHAN Kam-lam, one of the legislative councilors in Hong Kong said that he agreed with the draft, tons of kuso targeting Chan then being created and published online.\nNetizens launched demonstrations to show their stands concerning the derivative work\nOn 4 December 2011, some social movement organizations like Keyboard Frontline and Netizens Power launched a demonstration which aimed to show their discontent about the draft of Copyright (Amendment) Bill 2011 version which defined derivative work as Criminal charge without any consultation in the society. Not long, the Government said that the second round debate of the draft will be restarted in the Legislative Council. Once again, the netizens launched another demonstration to show disagree and for this time, they even demonstrated to Central Government Offices.\n\n"}
{"id": "37551679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37551679", "title": "Country attractiveness", "text": "Country attractiveness\n\nCountry attractiveness is a multidisciplinary concept at the crossroads of development economics, financial economics, comparative law and political science: it aims at tracking and contrasting the relative appeal of different territories and jurisdictions competing for “scarce” investment inflows, by scoring them quantitatively and qualitatively across \"ad hoc\" series of variables such as GDP growth, tax rates, capital repatriation … etc.\n\nThere are multiple factors determining host country attractiveness in the eyes of large foreign direct institutional investors, notably pension funds and sovereign wealth funds. Research conducted by the World Pensions Council (WPC) suggests that perceived legal/political stability over time and medium-term economic growth dynamics constitute the two main determinants\n\nSome development economists believe that a sizeable part of Western Europe has now fallen behind the most dynamic amongst Asia’s emerging markets, notably because the latter adopted policies more propitious to long-term investments: “Successful countries such as Singapore, Indonesia and South Korea still remember the harsh adjustment mechanisms imposed abruptly upon them by the IMF and World Bank during the 1997-1998 ‘Asian Crisis’ […] What they have achieved in the past 10 years is all the more remarkable: they have quietly abandoned the “Washington consensus” [the dominant Neoclassical perspective] by investing massively in infrastructure projects […] this pragmatic approach proved to be very successful.”\n"}
{"id": "16113191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16113191", "title": "County judge", "text": "County judge\n\nThe term county judge is applied as a descriptor, and sometimes as a title, for a person who presides over a county court. In most cases, such as in Northern Ireland and the Victorian County Courts, a county judge is a judicial officer with civil or criminal jurisdiction. In the United States, however, there are some \"County Courts\" which exercise primarily administrative functions, in which case the County Judge may exercise largely or solely executive authority and be equivalent to the county executive in other local government areas.\n\nCounty court systems are common in the United States, often led by a County Judge, but with jurisdiction varying between the states, and in many cases carry a mix of administrative law functions and executive responsibilities for governing the county. In Missouri, for example, the county court deals largely with property registration and deeds as well as leading the county – in the 1922, Harry S. Truman was elected as one of two County Judges for Jackson County, Missouri, becoming the county presiding judge in 1926, his two elected positions prior to entering the United States Senate. In states like New York, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania, the county courts conduct trials on misdemeanor, and even some felony, criminal matters. \n\nThe blurring of executive and judicial functions have developed on a state-by-state basis in response to local needs and so there is little uniformity between states, and even within states at times (differing interactions of rural and urban/municipal jurisdictions with each other and with the state government, for example). Tennessee and Oregon both have county courts which are executive agencies, and which thus carry responsibility for funding local courts, jails, and Sheriff's departments, maintaining county roads, managing local property developments, and levying county-wide property taxes. In other areas, this body is often called a County Commission rather than being named a Court.\n\nIn Kentucky, each county has the similarly-titled elected office of County Judge/Executive, who serves as the chief executive officer for the vast majority of counties.\nIn Texas, the County Courts have original jurisdiction established under sections 15 to 17 of Article V the State Constitution. Each of Texas' 254 counties has a single County Court which shall be a \"court of record\" (section 15) which \"has jurisdiction as provided by law\" (section 16), which is exclusive over \"Class A\" and \"Class B\" misdemeanors (offenses that can involve jail time), concurrent over civil cases concerning small to moderate amounts, and with appellate jurisdiction over justice of the peace and district / municipal court cases (involving a trial \"de novo\" if the lower court is not a \"court of record\"). An elected County Judge shall preside over the County Court for a four-year term (section 15) and have \"judicial functions as provided by law,\" who may be replaced in cases of judicial disqualification or recusal (section 16). Juries in criminal trials \"shall consist of six persons; but no jury shall be empaneled to try a civil case unless demanded by one of the parties, who shall pay such jury fee therefor, in advance, as may be prescribed by law, unless the party makes affidavit that the party is unable to pay the jury fee\" (section 17).\n\nSince the jurisdiction of County Courts and the judicial functions of the County Judge are both limited \"by law,\" their extent is defined by legislative actions. County Judges do not require any formal qualifications in the discipline of law, and most are not qualified to practice law – in 2015, for example, 42 of County Judges (17%) had graduated from Law school and only 40 (16%) were licensed to practice law. This can be problematic, but with a caseload well beyond the capabilities of a single person, the Texas Legislature has created County Courts-at-law where only qualified lawyers may preside, to which much of the judicial responsibilities of the County Judge have been transferred. Individual counties are free to strip the County Judge of all judicial responsibilities, but this has not occurred in most places; County Judges undertaking judicial activities draw a supplemental salary, and in 2011 the \"Houston Chronicle\" reported that 85% of counties had judges drawing this stipend. The judicial education officer at the Texas Association of Counties, David Hodges, has noted that the rate of cases being overturned is higher for both the County Courts-at-law and for District Court judges than it is for County Judges. Some County Judge view the County Courts-at-law as supplements to, rather than replacements of, the County Court's judicial functions and so choose to preside in some criminal matters.\n\nEach Texas County is presided over by a Commissioners' Court of four County Commissioners and the County Judge, plus the County Clerk as a non-voting \"ex officio\" member. Despite the terms \"Court\" and \"Judge,\" the County Commissioners' Court has no judicial function, and although the County Judge presides over its meetings, the County Judge does not render judicial rulings. The Commissioners Court is just the title given in Texas to the county government, and County Judge the title given to the head of county government. This body is responsible for administration of the county, controlling the county tax rate, the budget for its responsible departments, and exercising oversight over subsidiary boards and commissions. The County Judge presides over meetings but has no veto power, Reviews and the court makes decisions by simply majority and is quorate with three voting members (except for levying tax where four members are required). Consequently, a County Judge is primarily the chief administrator for the county, effectively the chief executive officer, who exercises only limited judicial functions (varying between counties), though retaining the authority to conduct marriages and to conduct administrative hearings.\n\nThe blurring of roles and titles can lead to misconceptions. For example, following the shooting death of Detective Benjamin Marconi and the arrest of the suspect, who was charged with capital murder. County Judge James Oakley made a controversial and allegedly racist remark on Facebook which alluded to lynching; the event attracted considerable attention and criticism, with most comments emphasising they were made by a judge, despite Oakley being essentially a local politician.\n"}
{"id": "17582407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17582407", "title": "Crimes Act", "text": "Crimes Act\n\nCrimes Act (with its variations) is a stock short title used for legislation in Australia, New Zealand and the United States, relating to the criminal law (including both substantive and procedural aspects of that law). It tends to be used for Acts which consolidate or codify the whole of the criminal law.\n\nThe Bill for an Act with this short title may have been known as a Crimes Bill during its passage through Parliament.\n\nCrimes Acts may be a generic name either for legislation bearing that short title or for all legislation which relates to the criminal law.\n\nAustralian Capital Territory\n\nNew South Wales\n\nVictoria\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1828610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1828610", "title": "Criminal libel", "text": "Criminal libel\n\nCriminal libel is a legal term, of English origin, which may be used with one of two distinct meanings, in those common law jurisdictions where it is still used.\n\nIt is an alternative name for the common law offence which is also known (in order to distinguish it from other offences of libel) as \"defamatory libel\" or, occasionally, as \"criminal defamatory libel\".\n\nIt is also used as a collective term for all offences which consist of the publication of some prohibited matter in a libel (in permanent form), namely defamatory libel, seditious libel, blasphemous libel and obscene libel.\n\nThe common law offences of seditious libel, defamatory libel, and obscene libel were abolished in England and Wales and Northern Ireland on 12 January 2010 when section 73 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 came into force, blasphemous libel having already been abolished in England and Wales on 8 July 2008 by the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008. The Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006 created instead the offence of inciting hatred against a person on the grounds of their race or religion.\n\nSamoa's Crimes Act 2013 dropped reference to criminal libel, which had been on the statute books as part of the \"Crimes Act\" 1961.\n\n"}
{"id": "4753474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4753474", "title": "Delfo Zorzi", "text": "Delfo Zorzi\n\nDelfo Zorzi, presently known as , is an Italian-born Japanese citizen .\n\nDelfo Zorzi/Roi Hagen was born in Arzignano, near Vicenza, Italy, on July 3, 1947, the city where his family dealt in furs.\n\nIn 1968 he moved to Naples to study Asian languages. He graduated with a PhD.Thesis on \"Bushidō\", a Japanese code of conduct and a way of life loosely analogous to the European concept of chivalry.\n\nIn 1974 he moved to Japan and in 1989 he took Japanese citizenship with his present name, Roi Hāgen\".\n\nThe fifth person arrested for same crime, was tried \"in absentia\" for the Piazza Fontana but was later acquitted in appeal for complete lack of evidence on March 12, 2004. On May 3, 2005 the supreme Court of Cassation definitively acquitted Zorzi from the accusation. In 2014 the supreme Court of Cassation acquitted Zorzi from the accusation.\n\nToday Hagen lives in the Tokyo neighborhood of Aoyama . A successful businessman, he directs from Tokyo several import-export firms in Asia and in Europe.\n\nIn September 2005 an article by magazine L'Espresso accused Hagen of dealing in furs in Italy via a series of firms under an assumed name. Specifically, he is part owner of the shop \"Oxus\" in famous Milano's Galleria Vittorio Emanuele II, of another shop of the same chain in Rome's Piazza Fiume, and of other \"Oxus\" businesses in Conegliano Veneto and Pordenone.\n\nIn 1999 he intervened via telephone in a television program (\"Porta a Porta\" hosted by Bruno Vespa). The conversation was partly re-broadcast during the television program \"Blu notte\", conducted by Carlo Lucarelli in an episode dedicated to the Strage di Piazza Fontana bombing, during which he was again interviewed via telephone.\n"}
{"id": "39871527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39871527", "title": "Diamond v. Charles", "text": "Diamond v. Charles\n\nDiamond v. Charles, 476 U.S. 54 (1986), was a United States Supreme Court case that determined that citizens do not have Article III standing to challenge the constitutionality of a state statute in federal court unless they possess a \"direct stake\" in the outcome.\n\nFour physicians who provided abortion services in Illinois filed a class action lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois to challenge a 1979 amendment to the \"Illinois Abortion Law of 1975\" which required doctors to provide a \"parental consultation\" before performing an abortion. This regulation added to the \"Illinois Abortion Parental Consent Act of 1977\", which required written consent from both parents or the guardian of an unmarried minor before obtaining an abortion and imposed a 48-hour waiting period. If parental consent could not be obtained or was refused, the minor could seek court-authorized consent upon showing that \"the pregnant minor fully understands the consequences of an abortion to her and her unborn child.\" Notice of the hearing was required to be sent to the parents by registered or certified mail.\n\nOn October 31, 1979, the district court granted the physicians' motion for a temporary restraining order in \"Charles v. Carey\", 627 F.2d 772 (7th Cir. 1980), barring enforcement of the amended law. The State of Illinois did not appeal the finding that the amendment was unconstitutional. Eugene Diamond, on the basis of his conscientious objection to abortions, his status as a pediatrician, and as a parent of a minor daughter, filed a motion to intervene as a defendant of the law.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court, in dismissing the appeal, said \"because the State alone is entitled to create a legal code, only the State has the kind of 'direct stake' identified in the Court's standing doctrine in defending the standards embodied in that code.\" The Court also said that Article III standing \"is not to be placed in the hands of 'concerned bystanders,' who will use it simply as a 'vehicle for the vindication of value interests.'\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3439123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3439123", "title": "Duty of loyalty", "text": "Duty of loyalty\n\nThe duty of loyalty is often called the cardinal principal of fiduciary relationships, but is particularly strict in the law of trusts. In that context, the term refers to a trustee's duty to administer the trust solely in the interest of the beneficiaries, and following the terms of the trust. It generally prohibits a trustee from engaging in transactions that might involve self-dealing or even an appearance of conflict of interest. Furthermore, it requires a fiduciary to deal with transparency regarding material facts known to them in interactions with beneficiaries. \nDuty of loyalty in corporation law to describe a fiduciaries' \"conflicts of interest and requires fiduciaries to put the corporation's interests ahead of their own.\" \"Corporate fiduciaries breach their duty of loyalty when they divert corporate assets, opportunities, or information for personal gain.\"\n\nIt is generally acceptable if a director makes a decision for the corporation that profits both him and the corporation. The duty of loyalty is breached when the director puts his or her interest in front of that of the corporation.\n\n\n\nSection 8.60 of the Model Business Corporation Act states there is a conflict of interest when the director knows that at the time of a commitment that he or a related person is 1) a party to the transaction or 2) has a beneficial financial interest in the transaction that the interest and exercises his influence to the detriment of the corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "9830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9830", "title": "European Convention on Human Rights", "text": "European Convention on Human Rights\n\nThe European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) (formally the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms) is an international treaty to protect human rights and political freedoms in Europe. Drafted in 1950 by the then newly formed Council of Europe, the convention entered into force on 3 September 1953. All Council of Europe member states are party to the Convention and new members are expected to ratify the convention at the earliest opportunity.\n\nThe Convention established the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR). Any person who feels his or her rights have been violated under the Convention by a state party can take a case to the Court. Judgments finding violations are binding on the States concerned and they are obliged to execute them. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe monitors the execution of judgements, particularly to ensure payment of the amounts awarded by the Court to the applicants in compensation for the damage they have sustained. The compensations imposed under ECHR can be large; in 2014 Russia was ordered to pay in excess of $2 billion in damages to former shareholders of Yukos.\n\nThe Convention has several protocols, which amend the convention framework.\n\nThe European Convention on Human Rights has played an important role in the development and awareness of Human Rights in Europe.\nThe development of a regional system of human rights protection operating across Europe can be seen as a direct response to twin concerns. First, in the aftermath of the Second World War, the convention, drawing on the inspiration of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights can be seen as part of a wider response of the Allied Powers in delivering a human rights agenda through which it was believed that the most serious human rights violations which had occurred during the Second World War could be avoided in the future. Second, the Convention was a response to the growth of Communism in Central and Eastern Europe and designed to protect the member states of the Council of Europe from communist subversion. This, in part, explains the constant references to values and principles that are \"necessary in a democratic society\" throughout the Convention, despite the fact that such principles are not in any way defined within the convention itself.\n\nFrom 7 to 10 May 1948 with the attendance of politicians (such as Winston Churchill, François Mitterrand and Konrad Adenauer), civil society representatives, academics, business leaders, trade unionist and religious leader was organised gathering-The \"Congress of Europe\" in Hague. At the end of Congress the declaration and following pledge was issued which demonstrated the initial seeds of modern European institutes, including ECHR. The second and third Articles of Pledge stated: We desire a Charter of Human Rights guaranteeing liberty of thought, assembly and expression as well as right to form a political opposition. We desire a Court of Justice with adequate sanctions for the implementation of this Charter.\n\nThe Convention was drafted by the Council of Europe after the Second World War in response to a call issued by Europeans from all walks of life who had gathered at the Hague Congress. Over 100 parliamentarians from the twelve member states of the Council of Europe gathered in Strasbourg in the summer of 1949 for the first ever meeting of the Council's Consultative Assembly to draft a \"charter of human rights\" and to establish a court to enforce it. British MP and lawyer Sir David Maxwell-Fyfe, the Chair of the Assembly's Committee on Legal and Administrative Questions, was one of its leading members and guided the drafting of the Convention. As a prosecutor at the Nuremberg Trials, he had seen first-hand how international justice could be effectively applied. With his help, the French former minister and Resistance fighter Pierre-Henri Teitgen submitted a report to the Assembly proposing a list of rights to be protected, selecting a number from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights just agreed to in New York, and defining how the enforcing judicial mechanism might operate. After extensive debates, the Assembly sent its final proposal to the Council's Committee of Ministers, which convened a group of experts to draft the Convention itself.\n\nThe Convention was designed to incorporate a traditional civil liberties approach to securing \"effective political democracy\", from the strongest traditions in the United Kingdom, France and other member states of the fledgling Council of Europe, as said by Guido Raimondi, President of European Court of Human Rights:\n\nThe Convention was opened for signature on 4 November 1950 in Rome. It was ratified and entered into force on 3 September 1953. It is overseen and enforced by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and the Council of Europe. Until procedural reforms in the late 1990s, the Convention was also overseen by a European Commission on Human Rights.\n\nThe Convention is drafted in broad terms, in a similar (albeit more modern) manner to the English Bill of Rights, the U.S. Bill of Rights, the French Declaration of the Rights of Man or the first part of the German Basic law. Statements of principle are, from a legal point of view, not determinative and require extensive interpretation by courts to bring out meaning in particular factual situations.\n\nAs amended by Protocol 11, the Convention consists of three parts. The main rights and freedoms are contained in Section I, which consists of Articles 2 to 18. Section II (Articles 19 to 51) sets up the Court and its rules of operation. Section III contains various concluding provisions.\n\nBefore the entry into force of Protocol 11, Section II (Article 19) set up the Commission and the Court, Sections III (Articles 20 to 37) and IV (Articles 38 to 59) included the high-level machinery for the operation of, respectively, the Commission and the Court, and Section V contained various concluding provisions.\n\nMany of the Articles in Section I are structured in two paragraphs: the first sets out a basic right or freedom (such as Article 2(1) – the right to life) but the second contains various exclusions, exceptions or limitations on the basic right (such as Article 2(2) – which excepts certain uses of force leading to death).\n\nArticle 1 simply binds the signatory parties to secure the rights under the other Articles of the Convention \"within their jurisdiction\". In exceptional cases, \"jurisdiction\" may not be confined to a Contracting State's own national territory; the obligation to secure Convention rights then also extends to foreign territories, such as occupied land in which the State exercises effective control.\n\nIn \"Loizidou v Turkey\", the European Court of Human Rights ruled that jurisdiction of member states to the convention extended to areas under that state's effective control as a result of military action.\n\nArticle 2 protects the right of every person to their life. The right to life extends only to human beings, not to non-human animals, or to \"legal persons\" such as corporations. In \"Evans v United Kingdom\", the Court ruled that the question of whether the right to life extends to a human embryo fell within a state's margin of appreciation. In \"Vo v France\", the Court declined to extend the right to life to an unborn child, while stating that \"it is neither desirable, nor even possible as matters stand, to answer in the abstract the question whether the unborn child is a person for the purposes of Article 2 of the Convention\".\n\nThe Court has ruled that states have three main duties under Article 2:\n\n\nThe first paragraph of the article contains an exception for lawful executions, although this exception has largely been superseded by Protocols 6 and 13. Protocol 6 prohibits the imposition of the death penalty in peacetime, while Protocol 13 extends the prohibition to all circumstances. (For more on Protocols 6 and 13, see below).\n\nThe second paragraph of Article 2 provides that death resulting from defending oneself or others, arresting a suspect or fugitive, or suppressing riots or insurrections, will not contravene the Article when the use of force involved is \"no more than absolutely necessary\".\n\nSignatory states to the Convention can only derogate from the rights contained in Article 2 for deaths which result from lawful acts of war.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights did not rule upon the right to life until 1995, when in \"McCann and Others v United Kingdom\" it ruled that the exception contained in the second paragraph does not constitute situations when it is permitted to kill, but situations where it is permitted to use force which might result in the deprivation of life.\n\nArticle 3 prohibits torture and \"inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment\". There are no exceptions or limitations on this right. This provision usually applies, apart from torture, to cases of severe police violence and poor conditions in detention.\n\nThe Court has emphasized the fundamental nature of Article 3 in holding that the prohibition is made in \"absolute terms ... irrespective of a victim's conduct\". The Court has also held that states cannot deport or extradite individuals who might be subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, in the recipient state.\n\nInitially, the Court took a restrictive view on what consisted of torture, preferring to find that states had inflicted inhuman and degrading treatment. Thus the court held that practices such as sleep deprivation, subjecting individual to intense noise and requiring them to stand against a wall with their limbs outstretched for extended periods of time, did not constitute torture. In fact the Court only found a state guilty of torture in 1996 in the case of a detainee who was suspended by his arms while his hands were tied behind his back. Since then the Court has appeared to be more open to finding states guilty of torture and has even ruled that since the Convention is a \"living instrument\", treatment which it had previously characterized as inhuman or degrading treatment might in future be regarded as torture.\n\nArticle 4 prohibits slavery, servitude and forced labour but exempts labour:\n\nArticle 5 provides that everyone has the right to liberty and security of person. Liberty and security of the person are taken as a \"compound\" concept – security of the person has not been subject to separate interpretation by the Court.\n\nArticle 5 provides the right to liberty, subject only to lawful arrest or detention under certain other circumstances, such as arrest on reasonable suspicion of a crime or imprisonment in fulfilment of a sentence. The article also provides those arrested with the right to be informed, in a language they understand, of the reasons for the arrest and any charge they face, the right of prompt access to judicial proceedings to determine the legality of the arrest or detention, to trial within a reasonable time or release pending trial, and the right to compensation in the case of arrest or detention in violation of this article.\n\n\nArticle 6 provides a detailed right to a fair trial, including the right to a public hearing before an independent and impartial tribunal within reasonable time, the presumption of innocence, and other minimum rights for those charged with a criminal offence (adequate time and facilities to prepare their defence, access to legal representation, right to examine witnesses against them or have them examined, right to the free assistance of an interpreter).\n\nThe majority of Convention violations that the Court finds today are excessive delays, in violation of the \"reasonable time\" requirement, in civil and criminal proceedings before national courts, mostly in Italy and France. Under the \"independent tribunal\" requirement, the Court has ruled that military judges in Turkish state security courts are incompatible with Article 6. In compliance with this Article, Turkey has now adopted a law abolishing these courts.\n\nAnother significant set of violations concerns the \"confrontation clause\" of Article 6 (i.e. the right to examine witnesses or have them examined). In this respect, problems of compliance with Article 6 may arise when national laws allow the use in evidence of the testimonies of absent, anonymous and vulnerable witnesses.\n\n\nArticle 7 prohibits the retroactive criminalisation of acts and omissions. No person may be punished for an act that was not a criminal offence at the time of its commission. The article states that a criminal offence is one under either national or international law, which would permit a party to prosecute someone for a crime which was not illegal under domestic law at the time, so long as it was prohibited by international law. The Article also prohibits a heavier penalty being imposed than was applicable at the time when the criminal act was committed.\n\nArticle 7 incorporates the legal principle \"nullum crimen, nulla poena sine lege\" into the convention.\n\nRelevant cases are: \n\nArticle 8 provides a right to respect for one's \"private and family life, his home and his correspondence\", subject to certain restrictions that are \"in accordance with law\" and \"necessary in a democratic society\". This article clearly provides a right to be free of unlawful searches, but the Court has given the protection for \"private and family life\" that this article provides a broad interpretation, taking for instance that prohibition of private consensual homosexual acts violates this article. There have been cases discussing consensual familial sexual relationships, and how the criminalisation of this may violate this article. However, the ECHR still deems such familial sexual acts to be criminal. This may be compared to the jurisprudence of the United States Supreme Court, which has also adopted a somewhat broad interpretation of the right to privacy. Furthermore, Article 8 sometimes comprises positive obligations: whereas classical human rights are formulated as prohibiting a State from interfering with rights, and thus \"not\" to do something (e.g. not to separate a family under family life protection), the effective enjoyment of such rights may also include an obligation for the State to become active, and to \"do\" something (e.g. to enforce access for a divorced parent to his/her child).\n\nNotable cases:\n\nArticle 9 provides a right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This includes the freedom to change a religion or belief, and to manifest a religion or belief in worship, teaching, practice and observance, subject to certain restrictions that are \"in accordance with law\" and \"necessary in a democratic society\"\n\nRelevant cases are: \n\nArticle 10 provides the right to freedom of expression, subject to certain restrictions that are \"in accordance with law\" and \"necessary in a democratic society\". This right includes the freedom to hold opinions, and to receive and impart information and ideas, but allows restrictions for:\n\nRelevant cases are:\n\nArticle 11 protects the right to freedom of assembly and association, including the right to form trade unions, subject to certain restrictions that are \"in accordance with law\" and \"necessary in a democratic society\".\n\n\nArticle 12 provides a right for women and men of marriageable age to marry and establish a family.\n\nDespite a number of invitations, the Court has so far refused to apply the protections of this article to same-sex marriage. The Court has defended this on the grounds that the article was intended to apply only to different-sex marriage, and that a wide margin of appreciation must be granted to parties in this area.\n\nIn \"Goodwin v United Kingdom\" the Court ruled that a law which still classified post-operative transsexual persons under their pre-operative sex, violated article 12 as it meant that transsexual persons were unable to marry individuals of their post-operative opposite sex. This reversed an earlier ruling in \"Rees v United Kingdom\". This did not, however, alter the Court's understanding that Article 12 protects only different-sex couples.\n\nThe European Court of Human Rights ruled in \"Schalk and Kopf v Austria\" that countries are not required to provide marriage licenses for same-sex couples, however if a country allows same-sex couple marriage it must be done so under the same conditions that opposite-sex couples marriage face: in order to prevent a breach of article 14 – the prohibition of discrimination. Additionally, the court ruled in the 2015 case of \"Oliari and Others v Italy\", that states have a positive obligation to ensure there is a specific legal framework for the recognition and protection of same-sex couples.\n\nArticle 13 provides for the right for an effective remedy before national authorities for violations of rights under the Convention. The inability to obtain a remedy before a national court for an infringement of a Convention right is thus a free-standing and separately actionable infringement of the Convention.\n\nArticle 14 contains a prohibition of discrimination. This prohibition is broad in some ways and narrow in others. It is broad in that it prohibits discrimination under a potentially unlimited number of grounds. While the article specifically prohibits discrimination based on \"sex, race, colour, language, religion, political or other opinions, national or social origin, association with a national minority, property, birth or other status\", the last of these allows the court to extend to Article 14 protection to other grounds not specifically mentioned such as has been done regarding discrimination based on a person's sexual orientation.\n\nAt the same time, the article's protection is limited in that it only prohibits discrimination with respect to rights under the Convention. Thus, an applicant must prove discrimination in the enjoyment of a specific right that is guaranteed elsewhere in the Convention (e.g. discrimination based on sex – Article 14 – in the enjoyment of the right to freedom of expression – Article 10). It has been said that laws regarding familial sexual relationships (or incest) are in breach of Article 14 when combined with Article 8.\n\nProtocol 12 extends this prohibition to cover discrimination in any legal right, even when that legal right is not protected under the Convention, so long as it is provided for in national law.\n\nArticle 15 allows contracting states to derogate from certain rights guaranteed by the Convention in a time of \"war or other public emergency threatening the life of the nation\". Permissible derogations under article 15 must meet three substantive conditions:\n\n\nIn addition to these substantive requirements, the derogation must be procedurally sound. There must be some formal announcement of the derogation and notice of the derogation, any measures adopted under it, and the ending of the derogation must be communicated to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe\n\nAs of 2016, eight member states had ever invoked derogations. The Court is quite permissive in accepting a state's derogations from the Convention but applies a higher degree of scrutiny in deciding whether measures taken by states under a derogation are, in the words of Article 15, \"strictly required by the exigencies of the situation\". Thus in \"A v United Kingdom\", the Court dismissed a claim that a derogation lodged by the British government in response to the September 11 attacks was invalid, but went on to find that measures taken by the United Kingdom under that derogation were disproportionate.\n\nIn order for a derogation itself to be valid, the emergency giving rise to it must be:\n\nExamples of such derogations include:\n\n\nArticle 16 allows states to restrict the political activity of foreigners. The Court has ruled that European Union member states cannot consider the nationals of other member states to be aliens.\n\nArticle 17 provides that no one may use the rights guaranteed by the Convention to seek the abolition or limitation of rights guaranteed in the Convention. This addresses instances where states seek to restrict a human right in the name of another human right, or where individuals rely on a human right to undermine other human rights (for example where an individual issues a death threat).\n\nArticle 18 provides that any limitations on the rights provided for in the Convention may be used only for the purpose for which they are provided. For example, Article 5, which guarantees the right to personal freedom, may be explicitly limited in order to bring a suspect before a judge. To use pre-trial detention as a means of intimidation of a person under a false pretext is, therefore, a limitation of right (to freedom) which does not serve an explicitly provided purpose (to be brought before a judge), and is therefore contrary to Article 18.\n\n, fifteen protocols to the Convention have been opened for signature. These can be divided into two main groups: those amending the framework of the convention system, and those expanding the rights that can be protected. The former require unanimous ratification by member states before coming into force, while the latter require a certain number of states to sign before coming into force.\n\nThis Protocol contains three different rights which the signatories could not agree to place in the Convention itself. Monaco and Switzerland have signed but never ratified Protocol 1.\n\nArticle 1 provides for the right to the peaceful enjoyment of one's possessions. The European Court of Human Rights acknowledged a violation of the fair balance between the demands of the general interest of the community and the requirements of the protection of the individual's fundamental rights, also, in the uncertainty – for the owner – about the future of the property, and in the absence of an allowance.\n\nArticle 2 provides for the right not to be denied an education and the right for parents to have their children educated in accordance with their religious and other views. It does not however guarantee any particular level of education of any particular quality.\n\nAlthough phrased in the Protocol as a negative right, in \"Şahin v. Turkey\" the Court ruled that:\nArticle 3 provides for the right to elections performed by secret ballot, that are also free and that occur at regular intervals.\n\n\nArticle 1 prohibits the imprisonment of people for inability to fulfil a contract. Article 2 provides for a right to freely move within a country once lawfully there and for a right to leave any country. Article 3 prohibits the expulsion of nationals and provides for the right of an individual to enter a country of his or her nationality. Article 4 prohibits the collective expulsion of foreigners.\n\nTurkey and the United Kingdom have signed but never ratified Protocol 4. Greece and Switzerland have neither signed nor ratified this protocol.\n\nThe United Kingdom's failure to ratify this protocol is due to concerns over the interaction of Article 2 and Article 3 with British nationality law. Specifically, several classes of \"British national\" (such as British National (Overseas)) do not have the right of abode in the United Kingdom and are subject to immigration control there. In 2009, the UK government stated that it had no plans to ratify Protocol 4 because of concerns that those articles could be taken as conferring that right.\n\nRequires parties to restrict the application of the death penalty to times of war or \"imminent threat of war\".\n\nEvery Council of Europe member state has signed and ratified Protocol 6, except Russia, which has signed but not ratified.\n\n\nDespite having signed the protocol more than thirty years ago Germany and the Netherlands have never ratified it. Turkey, which signed the protocol in 1985, ratified it in 2016, becoming the latest member state to do so. The United Kingdom has neither signed nor ratified the protocol.\n\nApplies the current expansive and indefinite grounds of prohibited discrimination in Article 14 to the exercise of any legal right and to the actions (including the obligations) of public authorities.\n\nThe Protocol entered into force on 1 April 2005 and has () been ratified by 20 member states. Several member states—Bulgaria, Denmark, France, Lithuania, Monaco, Poland, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom—have not signed the protocol.\n\nThe United Kingdom government has declined to sign Protocol 12 on the basis that they believe the wording of protocol is too wide and would result in a flood of new cases testing the extent of the new provision. They believe that the phrase \"rights set forth by law\" might include international conventions to which the UK is not a party, and would result in incorporation of these instruments by stealth. It has been suggested that the protocol is therefore in a catch-22, since the UK will decline to either sign or ratify the protocol until the European Court of Human Rights has addressed the meaning of the provision, while the court is hindered in doing so by the lack of applications to the court concerning the protocol caused by the decisions of Europe's most populous states—including the UK—not to ratify the protocol. The UK government, nevertheless, \"agrees in principle that the ECHR should contain a provision against discrimination that is free-standing and not parasitic on the other Convention rights\". The first judgment that found a violation of Protocol No. 12, \"Sejdić and Finci v. Bosnia and Herzegovina\", was delivered in 2009.\n\nProtocol 13 provides for the total abolition of the death penalty. Currently all Council of Europe member states but three have ratified Protocol 13. Armenia has signed but not ratified the protocol. Russia and Azerbaijan have not signed it.\n\nThe Convention's provisions affecting institutional and procedural matters have been altered several times by means of protocols. These amendments have, with the exception of Protocol 2, amended the text of the convention. Protocol 2 did not amend the text of the convention as such but stipulated that it was to be treated as an integral part of the text. All of these protocols have required the unanimous ratification of all the member states of the Council of Europe to enter into force.\n\nProtocols 2, 3, 5, 8, 9 and 10 have now been superseded by Protocol 11 which entered into force on 1 November 1998. It established a fundamental change in the machinery of the convention. It abolished the Commission, allowing individuals to apply directly to the Court, which was given compulsory jurisdiction and altered the latter's structure. Previously states could ratify the Convention without accepting the jurisdiction of the Court of Human Rights. The protocol also abolished the judicial functions of the Committee of Ministers.\n\nProtocol 14 follows on from Protocol 11 in proposing to further improve the efficiency of the Court. It seeks to \"filter\" out cases that have less chance of succeeding along with those that are broadly similar to cases brought previously against the same member state. Furthermore, a case will not be considered admissible where an applicant has not suffered a \"significant disadvantage\". This latter ground can only be used when an examination of the application on the merits is not considered necessary and where the subject-matter of the application had already been considered by a national court.\n\nA new mechanism was introduced by Protocol 14 to assist enforcement of judgements by the Committee of Ministers. The Committee can ask the Court for an interpretation of a judgement and can even bring a member state before the Court for non-compliance of a previous judgement against that state. Protocol 14 also allows for European Union accession to the Convention. The protocol has been ratified by every Council of Europe member state, Russia being last in February 2010. It entered into force on 1 June 2010.\n\nA provisional Protocol 14bis had been opened for signature in 2009. Pending the ratification of Protocol 14 itself, 14bis was devised to allow the Court to implement revised procedures in respect of the states which have ratified it. It allowed single judges to reject manifestly inadmissible applications made against the states that have ratified the protocol. It also extended the competence of three-judge chambers to declare applications made against those states admissible and to decide on their merits where there already is a well-established case law of the Court. Now that all Council of Europe member states have ratified Protocol 14, Protocol 14bis has lost its \"raison d'être\" and according to its own terms ceased to have any effect when Protocol 14 entered into force on 1 June 2010.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19050861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19050861", "title": "Extra-Terrestrial Exposure Law", "text": "Extra-Terrestrial Exposure Law\n\nThe Extra-Terrestrial Exposure Law ( of the Code of Federal Regulations)—in force 1969–1977—was the popular name for regulations adopted by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) in 1969 to formalize its \"policy, responsibility and authority to guard the Earth against any harmful contamination … resulting from personnel, spacecraft and other property returning to the Earth after landing on or coming within the atmospheric envelope of a celestial body.\" Implemented before the Apollo 11 mission, it provided the legal authority for a quarantine period for the returning astronauts. The regulation defined \"extraterrestrially exposed\" as\n\n...the state or condition of any person, property, animal or other form of life or matter whatever, who or which has (1) Touched directly or come within the atmospheric envelope of any other celestial body; or (2) Touched directly or been in close proximity (or been exposed indirectly to) any person, property, animal or other form of life or matter who or which has been extraterrestrially exposed by virtue of subparagraph (1) of this paragraph. \nQuarantining of astronauts on the first lunar missions was mandated in 1969 to prepare for \"the remote possibility that they are harboring unknown lunar organisms that might endanger life on earth\", and the Apollo 11 voyagers were kept in quarantine for 21 days after their liftoff from the moon.\n\nNASA filed notices establishing quarantine periods in the Federal Register for Apollo 11, Apollo 12, Apollo 13, and Apollo 14. After the completion of the Apollo 14 mission, NASA stopped enforcing the regulation, though it remained on the books. On April 30, 1971, NASA's acting administrator, Dr. George M. Low, was quoted as saying,\n\nOn the basis of this analysis [of quarantine information from Apollo 14], as well as the results from the Apollo 11 and 12 flights, we have concluded there is no hazard to man, animals or plants in the lunar material...the interagency committee has recommended that further lunar missions need not be subject to quarantine.\n\nNASA revoked the rule in 1977 and the rule was formally removed from the Code of Federal Regulations in 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9812036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9812036", "title": "FAIR USE Act", "text": "FAIR USE Act\n\nThe \"Freedom and Innovation Revitalizing United States Entrepreneurship Act of 2007\" (FAIR USE Act) was a proposed United States copyright law that would have amended Title 17 of the U.S. Code, including portions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) to \"promote innovation, to encourage the introduction of new technology, to enhance library preservation efforts, and to protect the fair use rights of consumers, and for other purposes.\" The bill would prevent courts from holding companies financially liable for copyright infringement stemming from the use of their hardware or software, and proposes six permanent circumvention exemptions to the DMCA.\n\nThe bill was introduced February 27, 2007 in the 110th Congress by Representative Rick Boucher (D-VA). On March 19, 2007, the bill was referred to the House Subcommittee on Courts, the Internet, and Intellectual Property. The bill was not reintroduced.\n\nBoucher emphasized that the bill would not make circumvention an act of fair use, but would instead redefine which acts qualify as permissible circumvention, stating that\n\nThe FAIR USE Act is Boucher’s third attempt at reforming provisions within the DMCA, the previous two being the Digital Media Consumers' Rights Acts (DMCRA) of 2003 and 2005. Previously, Boucher co-sponsored the “Benefit Authors without Limiting Advancement or Net Consumer Expectations,” or “BALANCE Act,” which sought to amend the DMCA to account for noninfringing circumvention.\n\nThe Digital Media Consumers' Rights Acts stressed the necessity of adequate labeling on media bearing digital rights management (DRM) and similar protections to prevent consumer confusion. Both amended the DMCA to include exceptions for acts of circumvention that furthered consumers’ exercise of fair use rights.\n\nThe DMCRA of 2003 included a section of fair use amendments, including amendments to the exemptions described by Section 1201(c) of Title 17. The bill exempted research into “technological measures” from infringement and enabled consumers to circumvent DRM, and qualified that using services for noninfringing uses would not be a violation. The bill also explicitly stated that manufacturing and distributing hardware or software capable of noninfringing uses would likewise not be a violation.\n\nThe revised DMCRA of 2005 included a similar section of \"fair use amendments\", but did not make mention regarding users of noninfringing circumvention services.\n\nThe Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) and the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) criticized both incarnations of the bill, arguing that the language was too permissive and would “legalize hacking and piracy.”\n\nThe FAIR USE Act consists of two main provisions: redefining copyright infringement and amending copyright circumvention exemptions.\n\nSection 2 would amend Section 504(c)(2) of Title 17, and would prevent courts from levying statutory damages in cases of secondary infringement.\n\nSection 2 would also amend Section 501 by adding that \"no person shall be liable for copyright infringement based on the design, manufacture, or distribution of a hardware device or of a component of the device if the device is capable of substantial, commercially significant noninfringing use.\" In effect, this would reverse the Supreme Court’s decision in \"MGM Studios, Inc. v. Grokster, Ltd.\" (2005), which held that \"one who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright ... is liable for the resulting acts of infringement,\" which has gradually come to be interpreted to mean that any distribution of an object capable of infringement is liable for any resulting infringement. With the \"Grokster\" decision null, the prevailing standard regarding secondary liability would return to the Court's decision in \"Sony v. Universal\" (also known as the Betamax case). \n\nSection 2 echoes the Court's language in \"Sony,\" stating specifically that one may not be held liable for copyright infringement \"based on the design, manufacture, or distribution of a hardware device or of a component of the device if the device is capable of substantial, commercially significant noninfringing use.\"\n\nSection 3 first codifies the set of circumvention exemptions granted by the Librarian of Congress as part of the 2006 DMCA rule making process. \n\nSection 3 also amends the DMCA to add exceptions for six types of circumvention. Circumvention by libraries and archives, to skip objectionable content, to transmit over a personal network, to gain access to public domain works, for public interest work and research, and for preservation are added as a new set of exceptions.\n\nSection (I) allows libraries and archives to circumvent copyright for the purposes of compiling audiovisual works that are in a library's collection for educational classroom use by an instructor.\n\nEducational compilations for college film and media courses were exempt by the Librarian of Congress under Section 1201 of the DMCA, but that exemption was set to expire in 2009. Section(I) not only made the exemption permanent, it expanded the exemption to apply to compilations for coursework at all grade levels, in any subject area.\n\nSection (II) allows specifically for circumvention via hardware or software that skips objectionable content.\n\nCircumvention for the purposes of avoiding objectionable content became an issue in 2006, when a Denver judge ruled that the edited versions of films sold by companies such as CleanFlicks and CleanFilms were not considered fair use. These companies, along with a handful of others, removed objectionable content (such as nudity and profanity) from DVDs and sold the edited versions to consumers. \n\nIn its decision, the court did not address the legality of companies who offered software or hardware that would “read” unaltered media and skip objectionable content. Section (II) allows the sale of hardware, such as modified DVD players sold by CleanPlay, and software, like downloadable plug-ins, that would skip such content.\n\nSection (III) allows circumvention for the purpose of storing or transmitting media over a personal network, but explicitly prevents the uploading of media “to the Internet for mass, indiscriminate redistribution.\"\n\nSection (IV) allows for circumvention that enables access to a public domain work, or a compilation of works that are primarily in the public domain.\n\nArguably, Section (IV) would expressly allow initiatives such as Google Books, which was originally pioneered in 2004 as a database to increase the availability of, and readers' access to, public domain works.\n\nSection (V) is similar to a broader version of the third prong of fair use. It allows circumvention that is carried out to gain access to a work of substantial public interest solely for the purposes of \"criticism, comment, news reporting, scholarship, or research.\"\n\nThe language of Section (V) is ambiguous, which led some critics to worry that the language was too broad, potentially enabling students to circumvent copyright to access books, films, and music for coursework, or allowing professors to create course packs without obtaining permission from publishers.\n\nSection (VI) allows circumvention for purposes of preservation by a library or archives, with respect to works in its collection.\n\nSince the DCMA was passed, librarians across the country protested the limited circumvention rights they were afforded. The Association of Research Libraries addressed the problem of preservation head-on, arguing that “preservation is one of a library’s most critical functions... the DMCA is interfering with our ability to preserve these works.” The provisions of Section (VII) would effectively eliminate librarians' problems with preservation of works in a library's collection.\n\nThe FAIR USE Act was subject to criticism of both proponents and opponents of DMCA reform.\n\nProponents of DMCA reform critiqued the bill for being \"wishy-washy\". Despite the included amendments, several of which arose in response to public protest, the Act did not allow for circumvention for ripping personal copies for cross-media consumption (i.e. ripping a DVD for use on a video phone or laptop), which some considered the biggest problem with the DMCA.\n\nThe bill was also criticized for not maintaining the more strongly worded exemptions enumerated in previous incarnations of DMCA reform legislation, in particular, those regarding the makers and distributors of circumvention technology, which meant that “a film studies professor would be permitted to use software such as Handbrake... However, developing or distributing Handbrake in the United States would still be a crime.”\n\nOpponents of the bill focused on problems with the scope and breadth of its language. As with previous Boucher-sponsored bills, the RIAA argued that the bill would “repeal the DMCA and legalize hacking.\"\n\n\nFAIR USE Act\n\nUnited States Code\n"}
{"id": "4517748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4517748", "title": "Garry Davis", "text": "Garry Davis\n\nSol Gareth \"Garry\" Davis (July 27, 1921 – July 24, 2013) was an international peace activist who created the World Passport, a fantasy travel document based on his interpretation of Article 13(2), Universal Declaration of Human Rights and on the concept of world citizenship. Previously Davis had worked as a Broadway stage actor and served as an American bomber pilot in World War II. He was a devoted World Federalist, although a consistent critic of the World Federalist Movement.\n\nDavis was born in Bar Harbor, Maine (U.S.), to Meyer and Hilda (née Emery) Davis. His parents were Jewish and Irish, respectively. He graduated from The Episcopal Academy in 1940 and attended the Carnegie Institute of Technology (now Carnegie Mellon University).\n\nA former Broadway actor Davis served in the U.S. Army during the Second World War as a B-17 bomber pilot in the 8th Air Force. Pained by his own brother's war death and at the death he caused other families by bombing the city of Brandenburg in World War II, and fearful that nuclear war could terminate humanity, Davis gave up U.S. citizenship in 1948 and declared himself a \"citizen of the world\". He mentioned Henry Martyn Noel, who had renounced a few months earlier, as one of his inspirations.\n\nIn France, his \"Garry Davis Council of Solidarity\" support committee was co-founded by writers Albert Camus and André Gide and Emmaus movement originator Abbé Pierre, as well as Robert Sarrazac, a former leader of the French Résistance who joined Davis in founding the Mundialization World Cities movement.\n\nDavis interrupted a session of the United Nations General Assembly on 19 November 1948, \"We, the people, want the peace which only a world government can give,\" he proclaimed. \"The sovereign states you represent divide us and lead us to the abyss of total war.\"\n\nAlong with his support committee, he rallied over 15,000 people in Paris to demand that the UN recognize the rights of Humanity.\n\nEleanor Roosevelt expressed support in her \"My Day\" column for Davis' efforts towards forming a worldwide international government.\n\nDavis founded the International Registry of World Citizens in Paris in January 1949, which registered over 750,000 individuals. On 4 September 1953 Davis formed an organisation, the World Government of World Citizens, with the stated aim of furthering fundamental human rights. He additionally formed the World Service Authority in 1954 as the government's executive and administrative agency, which issues its own fantasy passports – along with fantasy birth and other certificates – to customers. Davis first used his World Passport on a trip to India in 1956, and was allegedly admitted into some countries using it.\n\nDavis ran for mayor in Washington, D.C. in 1986 as the candidate of the \"World Citizen Party\" receiving 585 votes. He also declared himself as the World Citizen Party candidate for the 1988 US presidential election. Davis published multiple books in favor of his cause of world citizenship.\n\nAt the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro, Davis issued and disbursed a world currency based on kilowatt hours of solar power produced, an idea proposed by Buckminster Fuller. These \"kilowatt dollars\" were the earliest documented emissions reduction currency.\n\nIn March 2012 at age 90, Davis began broadcasting a weekly radio show, \"World Citizen Radio\", on the Global Radio Alliance.\n\nIn 2012, Davis sent WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange a World Passport. Only weeks before he died, Davis sent a World Passport to whistleblower Edward Snowden in Moscow in care of the Russian authorities.\n\nDavis entered hospice care on 18 July 2013, and died six days later in the municipality of South Burlington, Vermont, aged 91. He is survived by a daughter from his first marriage, Kristina Starr Davis; two sons, Troy and Kim; and a daughter, Athena Davis from his third marriage; a sister, Ginia Davis Wexler; a brother, Emery; and a granddaughter Emma Meluta.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23966084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23966084", "title": "Grand rights", "text": "Grand rights\n\nGrand rights is the right to perform musical compositions within the context of a dramatic work. This includes stage performances such as musical theater, concert dance, and arrangements of music from a dramatic work.\n\nWhile Section 115 of United States copyright law provides that a compulsory license be offered to perform copyrighted musical compositions, as administered by performance rights organizations, the provision's scope only applies to non-dramatic performances. As such, the license agreements of major PROs such as ASCAP and BMI only cover what are known in contrast as \"small rights\", and exclude the usage of compositions within \"dramatic\" or \"dramatico-musical\" works, or the use of compositions that originated from a dramatico-musical work. Unlike small rights, grand rights must be negotiated directly with the publisher or copyright holder of the composition.\n\nPrior to the establishment of PROs, license negotiations for any use of a composition were always done directly with publishers or composers. As compositions are licensed more often for non-dramatic performances, it is more efficient to manage these uses collectively. Musician Jack Vees noted that \"it is understandable that a successful composer or publisher would not want to hand over control of negotiating rights if he or she is doing pretty well in that particular arena. In one sense, this division of labor is simply a decision made by a majority of the members of a given performing rights society, because that’s the way they wanted their particular club to work.\" Vees also argued that allowing PROs to engage in negotiations for use of compositions in dramatic works could encourage illegal price fixing.\n"}
{"id": "6712884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6712884", "title": "Japanese labour law", "text": "Japanese labour law\n\nJapanese labor law is the system of labor law operating in Japan.\n\nThe scope of Japanese labor law is defined by the Japanese Civil Code. Article 622 defines contracts of employment, article 632 defines a contract for work, and article 643 defines a contract for mandate. The parties are free to decide the functional nature of their contract, but labor rights apply regardless of the label in the contract. Courts use a subordination test to determine whether someone is an employee or is self-employed.\n\nUnder the Civil Code, a contract in which one person performs services for another with compensation may be construed as any one of the following:\n\nEmployment agreements are regulated by the Civil Code and by the . (The JETRO reference below covers this subject.) Some general guidelines follow Some items apply only to companies with ten or more employees.\n\nConditions of employment must be clearly set out in the employment agreement or in supplementary rules which are provided to the employee.\n\nJapan has minimum wage laws: the actual amount is based upon the local cost of living and therefore varies from region to region (see links below).\n\nPay must generally be provided in full, in cash, and paid directly to the employee on or by a specified day of the month (as per the contract).\n\nCash payments are usually made by electronic funds transfer. \nThe maximum pay period is one month, which is the standard pay period throughout Japan, although bonuses and other supplemental payments such as commuter allowance may be paid at longer intervals.\n\nSalaries at Japanese companies are based on seniority, and are adjusted for the needs of employees, such as if they have a family and kids. Companies also generally reimburse for public transportation.\n\nSince 1987, Japan has adopted the principle of a 40 hour week. If people work over eight hours per day, 40 hours per week, or on holidays (and one \"weekend\" day a week), or at late night (10pm to 5am), they are entitled to overtime pay. Under the Labor Standards Act of 1947 article 37, this is 25% of pay, or 35% on holidays. Since 2010, a rate of 50% overtime pay applies for people working over 60 hours a week. However, although overtime pay is required by law, Japanese companies before 1990 were known to take employees to court over employees' requests for overtime or other legitimate compensation. Also, collective agreements may extend the normal work week. \n\nIf an employee works six to eight hours in a day, they are entitled to a 45-minute break. If an employee works eight hours in a day, they are entitled to a one-hour break. \n\nThe Labor Standards Act of 1947 gives the right to paid annual leave based on an employee's seniority. Since 1988, employees have the right to ten days of annual leave after the employee's first 6 months of service. The minimum amount of annual leave increases each year thereafter following a fixed schedule (as per the contract), usually up to twenty working days a year. An employee is entitled to one holiday per week unless they otherwise receive four or more holidays within every period of four weeks. \n\nSeveral forms of unpaid leave are also provided by law, including maternity leave, child care leave, family care leave and nursing leave.\n\nUnder the Japanese Constitution article 28 everyone has the right to unionise and to collectively bargain. Under the Trade Union Act of 1949 article 7(2) an employer's refusal to bargain with a union in good faith, without a good reason, is an unfair labour practice. The duty to bargain in good faith extends to managerial issues affecting employment conditions.\n\nUnder the Trade Union Act of 1949 article 18, a Ministerial order may extend the provisions of a collective agreement if both employers and a union request it to a defined area or sector. However in practice this is used very little. Under the Trade Union Act of 1949 article 7(1) a closed shop agreement is permitted with majority unions.\n\nJapan has, unlike the majority of OECD countries, no right of workers to vote for members of a company board of directors. There is no statutory right to elect a work council with binding rights, although companies use employee consultative committees widely. If there is no majority recognised union, employee committees may make agreements with the same effect as collective agreements. Under Trade Union Act of 1949 article 38(4) the use of health and safety committees is discretionary.\n\nThe Japanese Constitution article 28 contains the basic right to strike, or take collective action in defence of workers' interests. However, there is no protection for unofficial strikes without a union's endorsement, political strikes, and secondary action has been suppressed since 1975 case law. \"Defensive\" lock-outs aimed to restore \"equilibrium\" between the collective parties are permitted. There is also a requirement to notify an employer 10 days in advance before a strike in \"essential\" services under the Labour Relations Adjustment Act, article 37(1). A strike in breach of a peace obligation is not in itself unlawful and is not a ground for dismissal. Dismissal for taking part in a lawful strike is not permitted but there is no restriction on hiring replacements during a strike.\n\nArticle 4 of the Labour Standards Act of 1947 prohibits discrimination in pay based on gender: \"An employer shall not engage in discriminatory treatment of a woman as compared with a man with respect to wages by reason of the worker being a woman.\"\n\nSubsequent legislation has also banned forms of disparate treatment which were previously used to skirt this stipulation. For instance, women must be afforded the same hiring, job training, promotion opportunities and retirement plans as men. Despite the law, it is reported that the disparity in pay and in promotion between men and women is one of the highest of the so-called advanced countries.\n\nArticle 3 of the Labour Standards Act of 1947 prohibits ethnic, national and religious discrimination by employers in regards to work conditions: \"An employer shall not engage in discriminatory treatment with respect to wages, working hours or other working conditions by reason of the nationality, creed or social status of any worker ...\"\n\nArticle 7 of the Trade Union Act of 1949 prohibits discrimination against people who join or attempt to join a union, or who participate in union activities.\n\nSince 2008, part-time workers have a right to equal treatment with full-time workers if they have contracts for indefinite duration. If part-time workers have a fixed term contract, there is no right to equal treatment. Case law has stated that different redundancy payments between regular workers and others are potentially justifiable. Fixed term contracts are not restricted, and there is no right to equal treatment with permanent workers. The Labour Standards Act of 1947 article 14 states a fixed term contract's maximum duration is three years, but there is no limit on renewals or any reason required. Case law suggests renewals are possible. However, since 2013, a fixed term contract would convert into a permanent contract after five years if the employee submits a request, unless renewal could be regarded as socially acceptable. \n\nUntil the Worker Dispatching Act of 1986, agency work was strictly controlled and limited to a number of sectors. The rules were liberalised in 1996 and 1999 and then restrictions were removed in 2004. Agency workers have no right to equal treatment with directly employed staff.\n\nA fixed-term employment contract is generally limited to one year (there are some exceptions). For tenured staff, the term is not specified (but of course retirement age is usually stated). If a contract is a full-year contract, and has been renewed at least once, then compensation—typically one month's pay for each year worked—is often negotiated.\n\nUnder the Labour Standards Act of 1947 article 20, an employer must usually give 30 days notice before dismissal, or pay in lieu of notice. An employee is permitted to resign at any time (usually two weeks' notice is required). \n\nAn employer must only dismiss an employee for rational, reasonable, and socially-acceptable reason. There is no qualifying period for this right. The main criterion for a fair dismissal is that it follows a fair procedure, since case law from 1970. Fair reasons for dismissal are defined by the Labour Contracts Act 2008. However, reinstatement is rare and compensation is the normal remedy under the Japanese Civil Code, articles 546 and 709. \n\nDismissal is specifically prohibited during:\n\n\nAn employee who plans to contest dismissal should say so, demand that the reason be provided in writing, and should not accept the thirty days' pay in lieu of notice—as this may be construed as accepting dismissal.\n\nThere are no legal rights to a redundancy payment, and there is no rule about priority in redundancy based on seniority.\n\nThe Employment Insurance Act of 1974 gives workers who have lost their jobs benefits.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\nInternational:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3921446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3921446", "title": "Justice and public safety practitioner", "text": "Justice and public safety practitioner\n\nA justice and public safety practitioner is an American public service job role.\n\nThe practitioner is a local, state, tribal or federal government employee who devotes his or her time to the practice of providing, administering or promoting justice and public safety services according to the laws, policies and practices of the government entity they serve. They are mindful of national standards and codes of conduct and often are members of state or national organizations that seek to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and quality of their profession.\n\nPractitioners historically are employed by agencies such as law enforcement, prosecutors/district attorneys, the courts, jail and correctional institutions, supervised custody organizations and the technology organizations that support these agencies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2390072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2390072", "title": "Laura's Law", "text": "Laura's Law\n\nLaura's Law is a California state law that allows for court-ordered assisted outpatient treatment. To qualify for the program, the person must have a serious mental illness plus a recent history of psychiatric hospitalizations, jailings or acts, threats or attempts of serious violent behavior towards self or others. A complete functional outline of the legal procedures and safeguards within Laura's Law has been prepared by NAMI San Mateo.\n\nThe law was named after Laura Wilcox, a mental health worker who was killed by a man who had refused psychiatric treatment. Modeled on Kendra's Law, a similar statute enacted in New York, the bill was introduced as Assembly Bill 1421 by Assemblywoman Helen Thomson, a Democrat from Davis. The measure passed the California Legislature in 2002 and was signed into law by Governor Gray Davis. The statute can only be utilized in counties that choose to enact outpatient commitment programs based on the measure. As of 2010, Nevada County has fully implemented the law and Los Angeles County has a pilot project. In 2010 the California \nState Association of Counties chose Nevada County to receive its Challenge Award for implementing Laura's Law. Subsequently, in 2011, a National Association of Counties Achievement Award in Health was awarded to Nevada County for the Assisted Outpatient Treatment Program.\n\nLaura Wilcox was a 19-year-old college sophomore who had been valedictorian of her high school before going on to study at Haverford College. While working at Nevada County's public mental health clinic during her winter break from college, on January 10, 2001, she and two other people were shot to death by Scott Harlan Thorpe, a 40-year-old man who resisted his family's and a social worker's attempt to have him hospitalized when he became increasingly delusional and paranoid. Thorpe was found incompetent to stand trial and was sent to Atascadero State Hospital and was later transferred to California's Napa State Hospital. After the incident Laura's parents chose to advocate for assisted outpatient treatment of individuals considered to have mental illness.\n\nThe law is only operative in those counties in which the county board of supervisors, by resolution, authorizes its application and makes a finding that no voluntary mental health program serving adults, and no children's mental health program, was reduced in order to implement the law.\n\nIn 2004, Los Angeles County implemented Laura's Law on a limited basis. Since the passage of the MHSA, Kern County, Los Angeles County, Nevada County, Orange County, Placer County, San Diego County, San Mateo County Yolo County, Contra Costa County, the City and County of San Francisco, Ventura County, San Luis Obispo County, Alameda County and Mendocino County have approved implementation of Laura's Law.\n\nIn those counties that adopt outpatient commitment, an AB 1421 program will ensure individuals are provided the services and medical treatment (including medication) that will enable the person to have a good chance to recover. Nevada County Director Michael Heggarty bests describes it as part of the recovery movement.\n\nIn November 2004, California voters passed Proposition 63. When the California Department of Mental Health (DMH) released its draft plan requirements for county mental health administrators on February 15, 2005, they contained a provision that would allow MHSA funds to be used for \"involuntary services\" if certain criteria were met. Nevada County's Laura's Law program and Los Angeles County's AOT pilot project are utilizing MHSA funding for services.\n\nAs stated above, the patient must have a serious mental illness plus a recent history of psychiatric hospitalizations, jailings or acts, threats or attempts of serious violent behavior towards self or others. The recipient must also have been offered an opportunity to voluntarily participate in a treatment plan by the local mental health department, yet fails to the point that, without a Laura's Law program, he or she will likely relapse or deteriorate to the point of being dangerous to self or others. \"Participation in the assisted outpatient program is the least restrictive placement necessary to ensure the person's recovery and stability.\" While a specified group of individuals may request an investigation to determine if a person qualifies for a Laura's Law program, only the County mental health director, or his or her designee, may file a petition with the superior court for a hearing to determine if the person should be court ordered to receive the services specified under the law.\n\nA person may be placed in an assisted outpatient treatment if, after a hearing, a court finds that the following criteria have been met. The patient must:\n\nIf the court finds that the individual meets the statutory criteria, the recipient will be provided intensive community treatment services and supervision by multidisciplinary teams of highly trained mental health professionals with staff-to-client ratios of not more than 1 to 10, and additional services, as specified, for persons with the most persistent and severe mental illness. The law specifies various rights of the person who is the subject of a Laura's Law petition as well as due process hearing rights. The bill also provides for voluntary settlement agreements as an alternative to the hearing process.\n\nPassage of the bill was supported by organizations such as the California Treatment Advocacy Coalition (an affiliate of the Treatment Advocacy Center), the California Psychiatric Association, the Police Chiefs Association, Mental Illness Policy Org. and the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI). In an editorial endorsement of the law, the \"Los Angeles Times\" touted then-Governor Gray Davis's support, while limiting its comments on opponents to mentioning that the Citizens Commission on Human Rights which opposes virtually all psychiatric treatments, sponsored a rally at the Capitol against Laura's law. The San Francisco Chronicle and The San Francisco Examiner have published positive articles on the topic. The Los Angeles Times won a Pulitzer Prize, in part for its coverage of Laura's Law.\n\nMindFreedom International and the California Network of Mental Health Clients (CNMHC), along with allies in the psychiatric survivors movement, also fought the measure and its earlier versions, accusing such legislation as a regressive and reprehensible scheme to enforce coerced drug treatment regimens against the will of patients. The Church of Scientology and the Citizens Commission on Human Rights have also gained attention as an opponent of the new law.\n\nOutpatient commitment opponents make several varied arguments. Some dispute the positive effects of compulsory treatment, questioning the methodology of studies that show effectiveness. Others highlight negative effects of treatment. Still others point to disparities in the way these laws are applied. The psychiatric survivors movement opposes compulsory treatment on the basis that the ordered drugs often have serious or unpleasant side-effects such as anhedonia, tardive dyskinesia, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, excessive weight gain leading to diabetes, addiction, sexual side effects, and increased risk of suicide.\n\nJohn M. Grohol, Psy.D., in his article \"The Double Standard of Forced Treatment\", says \"Forced treatment for people with mental illness has had a long and abusive history, both here in the United States and throughout the world. No other medical specialty has the rights psychiatry and psychology do to take away a person's freedom in order to help \"treat\" that person. Historically, the profession has suffered from abusing this right — so much so that reform laws in the 1970s and 1980s took the profession's right away from them to confine people against their will. Such forced treatment now requires a judge's signature. But over time, that judicial oversight — which is supposed to be the check in our checks-and-balance system — has largely become a rubber stamp to whatever the doctor thinks is best. The patient's voice once again threatens to become silenced, now under the guise of \"assisted outpatient treatment\" (just a modern, different term for forced treatment).\"\n\nThe New Mexico Court of Appeals declared an Albuquerque\nordinance, modeled after Kendra's Law, requiring treatment for some mentally ill people conflicts\nwith state law and can't be enforced.\n\nTom Burns, the psychiatrist who originally advised the United Kingdom's government on laws that are similar to Laura's Law, has also come to the conclusion they are ineffective and unnecessary. Professor Burns, once a strong supporter of the new powers, said he has been forced to change his mind after a study he conducted proved the orders \"don't work\"..\n\nHowever, Burns' opinion was based heavily on his (very different) circumstances in the United Kingdom. The study he conducted found that coerced treatment was no better than regular/competent un-coerced treatment (the standard in the United Kingdom, which has public healthcare). As a result, the bulk of his argument does not apply to California, where the alternative to coerced treatment in most cases is no treatment at all. Professor Burns himself admitted that: \"We were careful in our Lancet article to say that \"in well-coordinated mental health services\", compulsory treatment has nothing to offer\" (emphasis added).\n\nBurns went on to highlight another critical difference between the two systems, and even mentioned that as a psychiatrist under a European system he would be willing to order coercive treatment under circumstances similar to the ones described by Laura's Law: \"There's a profound conceptual difference in the approach to mental health care between America and Europe. European laws often state \"danger to self or others,\" but danger in Europe is almost always interpreted very broadly — and you might think paternalistically — to include the patient's mental health. If I have a seriously ill schizophrenic patient who is neglecting himself, not taking his medicine, and I know he's going to get worse, I can say that's a \"danger\" to his health. My understanding is that in many states in America, it's got to be an imminent physical risk.\"\n\nAs a result of the opposition to Kendra's Law, similar in nature to Laura's Law, two studies were conducted on Kendra's Law and found favorable outcomes. One study of Assisted Outpatient Treatment within the United States and another study done by a previous proponent of AOT type laws in the United Kingdom did not.\n\nA 2005 study, Kendra's Law A Final Report on the Status of Assisted Outpatient Treatment done by New York State's Office of Mental Health, found:\n\nA 2009 study, New York State Assisted Outpatient Treatment Evaluation done by Duke University, Policy Research Associates, University of Virginia, found:\n\nThe study, Compulsory community and involuntary outpatient treatment for people with severe mental disorders by Steve R Kisely, Leslie Anne Campbell, Neil J Preston published at The Cochrane Library found:\n\nThe results of this study also did not support the usefulness of compulsory outpatient treatment: Community treatment orders (CTOs) for patients with psychosis (OCTET): a randomised controlled trial done by Professor Tom Burns DSc, Jorun Rugkåsa PhD, Andrew Molodynski MBChB, John Dawson LLD, Ksenija Yeeles BSc, Maria Vazquez-Montes PhD, Merryn Voysey MBiostat, Julia Sinclair DPhil, and Professor Stefan Priebe FRCPsych found:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5790527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5790527", "title": "Li Kui (legalist)", "text": "Li Kui (legalist)\n\nLi Kui (, 455–395 BC) was an ancient Chinese government minister and court advisor to Marquis Wen (r. 403–387 BC) in the state of Wei. In 407 BC, he wrote the \"Book of Law\" (Fajing, 法经), which was the basis for the codified laws of the Qin and Han dynasties.\n\nHis political agendas, as well as the \"Book of Law\", had a deep influence on later thinkers such as Han Feizi and Shang Yang, who would later develop the philosophy of Legalism based on Li Kui's reforms.\n\nLi Kui was in the service of the Marquis Wen of Wei even before the state of Wei was officially recognised, though little else is known of his early life. He was appointed as Chancellor of the Wei-controlled lands in 422 BC, in order to begin administrative and political reforms; Wei would therefore be the first of the Seven Warring States to embark on the creation of a bureaucratic, rather than a noble-dominated, form of government.\n\nThe main agendas of Li Kui's reforms included:\n\n\nThe direct result of these pioneering reform measures was the dominance of Wei in the early decades of the Warring States era. Leveraging its improved economy, Wei achieved considerable military successes under Marquis Wen, including victories against the states of Qin between 413 and 409 BC, Qi in 404 BC, and joint expeditions against Chu with Zhao and Han as its allies.\n\nAt the same time, the main tenets of Li Kui's reforms - supporting law over ritual, agrarian production, meritocratic and bureaucratic government and an active role of the state in economic and social affairs - proved an inspiration for later generations of reform-minded thinkers. When Shang Yang sought service in Qin, three decades after Li Kui's death, he brought with him a copy of the Book of Law, which was eventually adapted and became the legal code of Qin.\n\nAlong with his contemporary Ximen Bao, he was given oversight in construction of canal and irrigation projects in the State of Wei.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7177485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7177485", "title": "List of parties to international patent treaties", "text": "List of parties to international patent treaties\n\nThis is a list of parties to international patent treaties which are open to all states.\n\n\nThe list below was taken from details supplied by WIPO and the WTO. Dates quoted are the date on which the treaty came into effect for a given country.\n\n"}
{"id": "9035647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9035647", "title": "Loss given default", "text": "Loss given default\n\nLoss given default or LGD is the share of an asset that is lost if a borrower defaults.\n\nIt is a common parameter in risk models and also a parameter used in the calculation of economic capital, expected loss or regulatory capital under Basel II for a banking institution. This is an attribute of any exposure on bank's client. Exposure is the amount that one may lose in an investment.\n\nThe LGD is closely linked to the expected loss, which is defined as the product of the LGD, the probability of default (PD) and the exposure at default (EAD).\n\nLGD is the share of an asset that is lost when a borrower defaults. The \"recovery rate\" is defined as 1 minus the LGD, the share of an asset that is recovered when a borrower defaults.\n\nLoss given default is facility-specific because such losses are generally understood to be influenced by key transaction characteristics such as the presence of collateral and the degree of subordination.\n\nThe LGD calculation is easily understood with the help of an example: If the client defaults with an outstanding debt of $200,000 and the bank or insurance is able to sell the security (e.g. a condo) for a net price of $160,000 (including costs related to the repurchase), then the LGD is 20% (= $40,000 / $200,000).\n\nTheoretically, LGD is calculated in different ways, but the most popular is 'Gross' LGD, where total losses are divided by exposure at default (EAD). Another method is to divide Losses by the unsecured portion of a credit line (where security covers a portion of EAD). This is known as 'Blanco' LGD. If collateral value is zero in the last case then Blanco LGD is equivalent to Gross LGD. Different types of statistical methods can be used to do this.\n\nGross LGD is most popular amongst academics because of its simplicity and because academics only have access to bond market data, where collateral values often are unknown, uncalculated or irrelevant. Blanco LGD is popular amongst some practitioners (banks) because banks often have many secured facilities, and banks would like to decompose their losses between losses on unsecured portions and losses on secured portions due to depreciation of collateral quality. The latter calculation is also a subtle requirement of Basel II, but most banks are not sophisticated enough at this time to make those types of calculations.\n\nTo determine required capital for a bank or financial institution under Basel II, the institution has to calculate risk-weighted assets. This requires estimating the LGD for each corporate, sovereign and bank exposure. There are two approaches for deriving this estimate: a foundation approach and an advanced approach.\n\nUnder the foundation approach, BIS prescribes fixed LGD ratios for certain classes of unsecured exposures:\n\n\nSimple LGD example: If the client defaults, with an outstanding debt of 200,000 (EAD) and the bank is able to sell the security for a net price of 160,000 (including costs related to the repurchase), then 40,000, or 20%, of the EAD are lost - the LGD is 20%.\n\nThe effective loss given default (formula_1) applicable to a collateralized transaction can be expressed as\nformula_2\nHaircut appropriate for currency mismatch between the collateral and exposure (The standard supervisory haircut for currency risk where exposure and collateral are denominated in different currencies is 8%)\n\nThe *He and *Hc has to be derived from the following table of standard supervisory haircuts:\n\nHowever, under certain special circumstances the supervisors, i.e. the local central banks may choose not to apply the haircuts specified under the comprehensive approach, but instead to apply a zero H.\n\nUnder the A-IRB approach and for the retail-portfolio under the F-IRB approach, the bank itself determines the appropriate loss given default to be applied to each exposure, on the basis of robust data and analysis. The analysis must be capable of being validated both internally and by supervisors. Thus, a bank using internal loss given default estimates for capital purposes might be able to differentiate loss given default values on the basis of a wider set of transaction characteristics (e.g. product type, wider range of collateral types) as well as borrower characteristics. These values would be expected to represent a conservative view of long-run averages. A bank wishing to use its own estimates of LGD will need to demonstrate to its supervisor that it can meet additional minimum requirements pertinent to the integrity and reliability of these estimates.\n\nAn LGD model assesses the value and/or the quality of a security the bank holds for providing the loan – securities can be either machinery like cars, trucks or construction machines. It can be mortgages or it can be a custody account or a commodity. The higher the value of the security the lower the LGD and thus the potential loss the bank or insurance faces in the case of a default. Banks using the A-IRB approach have to determine LGD values, whereas banks within the F-IRB do only have to do so for the retail-portfolio. For example, as of 2013, there were nine companies in the United Kingdom with their own mortgage LGD models. In Switzerland there were two banks as of 2013. In Germany many thrifts – especially the market leader Bausparkasse Schwäbisch Hall – have their own mortgage LGD models. In the corporate asset class many German banks still only use the values given by the regulator under the F-IRB approach.\n\nRepurchase Value Estimators (RVEs) have proven to be the best kind of tools for LGD estimates. The repurchase value ratio\nprovides the percentage of the value of the house/apartment (mortgages) or machinery at a given time compared to its purchase price.\n\nUnder Basel II, banks and other financial institutions are recommended to calculate 'Downturn LGD' (downturn loss given default), which reflects the losses occurring during a 'Downturn' in a business cycle for regulatory purposes. Downturn LGD is interpreted in many ways, and most financial institutions that are applying for IRB approval under BIS II often have differing definitions of what Downturn conditions are. One definition is at least two consecutive quarters of negative growth in real GDP. Often, negative growth is also accompanied by a negative output gap in an economy (where potential production exceeds actual demand).\n\nThe calculation of LGD (or Downturn LGD) poses significant challenges to modelers and practitioners. Final resolutions of defaults can take many years and final losses, and hence final LGD, cannot be calculated until all of this information is ripe. Furthermore, practitioners are of want of data since BIS II implementation is rather new and financial institutions may have only just started collecting the information necessary for calculating the individual elements that LGD is composed of: EAD, direct and indirect Losses, security values and potential, expected future recoveries. Another challenge, and maybe the most significant, is the fact that the default definitions between institutions vary. This often results in a so-called differing cure-rates or percentage of defaults without losses. Calculation of LGD (average) is often composed of defaults with losses and defaults without. Naturally, when more defaults without losses are added to a sample pool of observations LGD becomes lower. This is often the case when default definitions become more 'sensitive' to credit deterioration or 'early' signs of defaults. When institutions use different definitions, LGD parameters therefore become non-comparable.\n\nMany institutions are scrambling to produce estimates of Downturn LGD, but often resort to 'mapping' since Downturn data is often lacking. Mapping is the process of guesstimating losses under a downturn by taking existing LGD and adding a supplement or buffer, which is supposed to represent a potential increase in LGD when Downturn occurs. LGD often decreases for some segments during Downturn since there is a relatively larger increase of defaults that result in higher cure-rates, often the result of temporary credit deterioration that disappears after the Downturn Period is over. Furthermore, LGD values decrease for defaulting financial institutions under economic Downturns because governments and central banks often rescue these institutions in order to maintain financial stability.\n\nIn 2010 researchers at Moody’s Analytics quantify an LGD in line with the target probability event intended to be captured under Basel. They illustrate that the Basel downturn LGD guidelines may not be sufficiently conservative. Their results are based on a structural model that incorporates systematic risk in recovery.\n\nOne problem facing practitioners is the comparison of LGD estimates (usually averages) arising from different time periods where differing default definitions have been in place. The following formula can be used to compare LGD estimates from one time period (say x) with another time period (say y):\n\nLGD=LGD*(1-Cure Rate)/(1-Cure Rate)\n\nIn Australia, the prudential regulator APRA has set an interim minimum downturn LGD of 20 per cent on residential mortgages for all applicants for the advanced Basel II approaches. The 20 per cent floor is not risk sensitive and is designed to encourage the ADIs to undertake further work, which APRA believes would be closer to the 20 per cent on average than ADIs’ original estimates.\n\nLGD warrants more attention than what has been given to it in the past decade, where credit risk models often assumed that LGD was time-invariant. Movements in LGD result in often proportional movements in required economic capital. According to BIS (2006) institutions implementing Advanced-IRB instead of Foundation-IRB will experience larger decreases in Tier 1 capital, and the internal calculation of LGD is a factor separating the two Methods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55012676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55012676", "title": "Maitri Karar", "text": "Maitri Karar\n\nMaitri Karar (friendship contract) is a legitimate contract system prevailed in Gujarat between a man and a woman at least one of whom is already married. similar live-in relationship \"Nata Pratha\" which is practiced in parts of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.\n\nAs this system can be a pact between a married Hindu man and a woman while his wife is alive, It often circumvent the provisions of the Hindu Marriage Act, which prohibits the remarriage. The agreement would be made by a Sub-Registrar with his seal on affidavit on a stamp-paper of Rs. 10, signed by both the parties with two witnesses. Each agreement is customized based on both parties needs. In addition, It also includes financial support by the man for his partner. Though it is not legally enforceable, but the contract is meant to give a sense of security to both parties.\n"}
{"id": "3523569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3523569", "title": "Moroccan Dahir", "text": "Moroccan Dahir\n\nA Dahir () is a Moroccan King's decree.\n\n"}
{"id": "3386077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3386077", "title": "Norberg v Wynrib", "text": "Norberg v Wynrib\n\nNorberg v Wynrib, [1992] 2 S.C.R. 226 is a leading Supreme Court of Canada decision on the fiduciary duty between doctors and patients, and on the limits of consent as a defense in sexual assault.\n\nLaura Norberg had severe pains in her jaw and frequent headaches in 1978. To remedy this problem, her sister offered her Fiorinal. After the source of her pain, an abscessed tooth, was found and treated, her addiction to painkillers remained. After breaking her ankle in 1981, she found a doctor who would prescribe Fiorinal. After this doctor retired, she sought out another who would provide the drug. Starting in 1982, she began seeing Dr. Wynrib, an elderly physician, and he began giving Norberg Fiorinal under the pretext of an ankle injury. In exchange, Wynrib demanded sexual favours. She eventually brought an action against him for sexual assault.\n\nThere are two main issues in this case. First, the sexual assault falls under the tort of battery. Second, can the relationship between Norberg and Wynrib be characterized as fiduciary and therefore give rise to a fiduciary obligation? The British Columbia Court of Appeal dismissed the case on the basis that she consented. The case was given leave to the Supreme Court. The Women's Legal Education and Action Fund acted as an intervener in this case.\nWriting for the majority, La Forest J. found an award of punitive damages on behalf of Norberg, but stops short of recognizing a fiduciary duty. The majority does not believe that sex is a power that can be transferred. Even though the majority discusses consent and its vitiation, they still treat the facts as an exchange between two parties.\n\nConcurring in the result, McLachlin J., as she was then, characterized the duty differently:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18943825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18943825", "title": "Operation Clambake", "text": "Operation Clambake\n\nOperation Clambake, also referred to by its domain name, xenu.net, is a website and Norway-based non-profit organization, launched in 1996, founded by Andreas Heldal-Lund, that publishes criticism of the Church of Scientology. It is owned and maintained by Andreas Heldal-Lund, who has stated that he supports the rights of all people to practice Scientology or any religion. Operation Clambake has referred to the Church of Scientology as \"a vicious and dangerous cult that masquerades as a religion\". The website includes texts of petitions, news articles, exposés, and primary source documents. The site has been ranked as high as the second spot in Google searches for the term \"Scientology\".\n\nThe term for the organization refers both to a traditional clam bake, as well as the notion from L. Ron Hubbard's \"\" that humans follow a \"genetic line\" which includes clams, and that the psychological problems afflicting humans are impacted by past experiences. The domain name xenu.net is a reference to the character Xenu from secretive \"OT III\" Scientology documents.\n\nIn 1996, the site was one of the first locations on the internet to host secret Scientology documents pertaining to Xenu and OT III. Shortly thereafter, the Church of Scientology attempted to get this material removed from Operation Clambake and other internet sites, through letters written by counsel, and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. After receiving a DMCA takedown notice, Google removed many Xenu.net pages from its indexes, which decreased the site's page rank in searches for \"Scientology\". This inspired Google to contribute to the Chilling Effects archive, informing others about material missing from Google indexes due to DMCA takedown notices and other legal threats.\n\nOperation Clambake has been consulted by news media organizations and other groups for information on Scientology and related organizations. \"Dateline NBC\" cited the organization in a 1998 investigative journalism piece, as have other publications including \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The New York Times\" and the Associated Press. During the Spring 2002 semester, Xenu.net was included as required reading in a New York University course on \"Copyright and Censorship\", and in 2003 webmaster Andreas Heldal-Lund received the 2003 Leipzig Human Rights Award by the European-American Citizens Committee for Human Rights and Religious Freedom in the US, an organization opposed to the Church of Scientology.\n\nOperation Clambake was founded in 1996 by Andreas Heldal-Lund, an information technology manager in Stavanger, Norway, who administers the site at www.xenu.net. This domain name has been described as provocative, because it is seen by some as a caricature of the character Xenu from Scientology cosmogony. Operation Clambake is registered in Norway as a non-profit organization.\n\nHeldal-Lund chose the name \"Operation Clambake\" for the organization, as a reference to statements made by L. Ron Hubbard in which Hubbard wrote that the problems of human beings today are a result of traumatic events experienced by them as spiritual beings when they inhabited the bodies of clams during Earth's evolution. In Hubbard's \"Scientology: A History of Man\", he asserts humans follow his notion of the \"genetic line\" of the \"genetic entity\", which include clams (as well as sloths, volcanoes, and a \"sense of being eaten\"), and certain human psychological problems descend from difficulties these clams experienced. Hubbard defined \"genetic line\" as a collection of the total \"incidents\" which occurred during the evolution of what Scientology refers to as the \"MEST body\".\n\nPrior to its own direct conflict with the Church of Scientology, Operation Clambake had described on its site how Amazon.com had pulled Jon Atack's book \"A Piece of Blue Sky\", a work critical of Scientology. The site later became one of the focal points of what some have termed \"the war between Scientology and the Internet\". On November 8, 1996, Operation Clambake was one of the first sites to host the secretive OT III documents describing the story of Xenu. Operation Clambake maintains the position that posting these internal Church of Scientology documents is permitted under \"fair use\" allowance of internationally recognized copyright law. The Church of Scientology threatened legal action against various Internet service providers that host the site, demanding it be removed from the Internet for hosting information copyrighted by the Church of Scientology.\n\nIn 1998 \"Salon\" reported that Scientologists were now blocked from viewing sites critical of Scientology including Operation Clambake and alt.religion.scientology, through the use of a content-control software program referred to by critics as Scieno Sitter. The Church of Scientology was unable to shut down Operation Clambake's internet service provider in Norway. The organization succeeded in shutting down the upstream connection to the site's internet service provider, Netherlands-based Xtended Internet. In November 2002, Xtended Internet's upstream provider, Cignal Global Communications received a letter from Church of Scientology counsel alleging copyright and trademark infringement involved with Xenu.net. This letter led to Cignal Global Communications, a United States-based company, terminating its service with Xtended Internet, which had to move their company to a new backbone provider.\n\nIn various incidents documented in such publications as \"The New York Times,\" Slashdot and \"Wired,\" the Church of Scientology has also used the controversial Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) to force notable Web sites (including the Google search engine) to remove the \"Operation Clambake\" homepage, and several leaflets containing copyrighted information, from their indices. Because the Xenu.net site itself is based in Norway, it does not fall under the jurisdiction of the DMCA.\n\nIn March 2002, Google agreed to limit access to material critical of the Church of Scientology on www.xenu.net, after it was sued by the Church of Scientology for copyright infringement. Information the Church of Scientology had objected to included an internal report on the death of Lisa McPherson, and images of L. Ron Hubbard. Google received criticism for its actions, and \"The Guardian\" reported that Operation Clambake suspected the Church of Scientology was mainly concerned about secret documents where \"L Ron Hubbard is said to describe how an alien galactic ruler called Xenu is the root of all human woe\". After Operation Clambake was delisted by Google, free-speech advocates besieged Google, complaining that the company was censoring search results. Prior to Google's delisting of the Operation Clambake site, \"CBC News\" reported that the site was listed fourth in a search for \"Scientology\". After Google's actions, Xenu.net did not appear in searches for \"Scientology\".\n\nThough Google did remove links to Operation Clambake for a short time, in place of the actual links, Google posted a notice explaining the links were removed due to the DMCA, and where the internet surfer could go to find more information. In April 2002 the \"International Herald Tribune\" reported that the net effect of the copyright controversy actually drove up the number of links to www.xenu.net, which improved its search results in searches for \"Scientology\" on Google to number two on the results page—just below the official site of the Church of Scientology. Reflecting on the controversy in a February 2003 interview in \"The Boston Globe Magazine\", Google founder Sergey Brin stated: \"Ultimately where we ended up was the right conclusion, but we didn't initially handle it correctly.\" Some groups critical of the Church of Scientology's actions have later used the Google bomb technique to increase Operation Clambake's Google rankings to the number three slot in a search for \"Scientology\" on the search engine, by linking the term \"Scientology\" on their Web pages to http://www.xenu.net/. The Church of Scientology itself has also been accused of an attempt at Google bombing for making a large number of websites linking terms \"Scientology\" and \"L. Ron Hubbard\" to each other.\n\nThe publicity stemming from this incident was the impetus for Google contributing to the Chilling Effects archive, which archives legal threats of all sorts made against Internet users and Internet sites. Chilling Effects contains the original complaint letter from the law firm used by the Church of Scientology, Moxon & Kobrin. Helena Kobrin, lawyer for the Church of Scientology, stated she took offense at the name of the Web site, saying: \"It implies that the First Amendment gives people some special right to infringe copyrights.\" Sergey Brin and Larry Page were both questioned on Google's response to the Church of Scientology's complaints in a 2004 interview in \"Playboy Magazine\", and they appreciated Chilling Effects as a \"nice compromise\". Brin explained the new scenario: \"So now, if you do a generic search on Scientology, you get a link to a site that discusses the legal aspects of why the anti-Scientology site isn't listed.\"\n\nAlso in 2002, Internet Archive removed all Wayback Machine archival pages of Xenu.net at the request of lawyers for the Church of Scientology. Initially queries reported that the pages had been removed \"per the request of the site owner\", which Andreas Heldal-Lund denied. This was later changed to a generic \"Blocked Site Error\" message.\n\nOperation Clambake is included as part of the Library of Congress \"September 11 Web Archive,\" and in Spring 2002 www.xenu.net was listed as required reading for the course \"Computers in Principle and Practice\" at New York University, under a section on \"Copyright and Censorship\".\n\nOn May 17, 2003, Operation Clambake webmaster Andreas Heldal-Lund received the 2003 Leipzig Human Rights Award from the European-American Citizens Committee for Human Rights and Religious Freedom in the US, an organization which states it is composed of \"Scientology opponents from all over the world\". Operation Clambake was cited by the Committee for exposing what it referred to as \"fraud and human rights violations\" of the Church of Scientology in the United States. The former Secretary of State of France, Alain Vivien, presented Heldal-Lund with the Award, and stated that his work had revealed the actions of Scientologists with \"respect and intelligence\". In his acceptance speech, Heldal-Lund spoke about freedom of speech, and emphasized the role of the individual citizen.\n\nOn June 16, 1998, \"Dateline NBC\" aired an investigative journalism piece on Scientology, and Operation Clambake was referenced on-screen as a resource to learn about \"Xenu and the exploded souls\". The \"St. Petersburg Times\" called Operation Clambake \"the best known of the critical Web sites\" on Scientology. \"New Straits Times\" referred to the site as \"a fantastic source of information for anyone interested in the Scientology cult\". In July 2000 \"The Wall Street Journal\" included Operation Clambake among its list of \"Our Favorite Sites\" under the \"Opinion, Commentary and Gossip\" section. \"The Seattle Times\" described Operation Clambake as \"one of the most popular\" sites critical of Scientology.\n\nMany other news organizations have recognized the site's work. BBC News wrote that \"(t)he Operation Clambake site portrays The Church as a money-hungry cult\", and an article in \"The New York Times\" stated \"(t)he site portrays the church as a greedy cult that exploits its members and harasses critics\". Still other news articles have called Operation Clambake \"an anti-Scientology Web site\", and the program \"Technofile\" on \"Sky News\" called it \"one of the most controversial sites on the web\". The \"Associated Press\" cited the Xenu and OT III story in describing the Web site: \"Critics at www.xenu.net and elsewhere say advanced Scientologists are taught that 75 million years ago, the cosmic ruler Xenu paralyzed billions of people in our galaxy, stacked them on Earth and destroyed their bodies with H-bombs, though the traumatized souls survived.\"\n\nMore recently, news media have consulted Operation Clambake and its proprietor when seeking out information for background on stories involving Church of Scientology and related organizations. \"The Sunday Times\" used Operation Clambake's resources while doing a January 2007 story on Narconon and its links to the Church of Scientology. \"The Daily Reveille\" consulted Operation Clambake resources for an article on the \"Second Chance\" program, specifically for background on the Scientology doctrine known as the \"Purification Rundown\". In April 2007, the \"Daily News\" cited an \"emergency bulletin\" disseminated by Church of Scientology leaders that was posted on Operation Clambake, which seemed to refute claims by Church of Scientology representatives that their ministers were forbidden from proselytizing on campus after the Virginia Tech massacre. In August 2007, the \"Associated Press\" included information from Operation Clambake in an article on Scientology's attempts to connect with religious leaders from other faiths.\n\nIn \"Who Controls the Internet?: Illusions of a Borderless World\", Jack Goldsmith notes that the site's \"secret library of Scientology\" page was blocked from Google for a short time. He notes that Google's actions in the matter were indicative of its policy to remove search results when threatened by governmental action. The incident between Google and the Church of Scientology involving the Web site was also discussed in an annual meeting of The State Bar of California, and cited as part of the caselaw for \"Domestic Copyright Law in Cyberspace.\"\n\nFred von Lohmann, an attorney with the Electronic Frontier Foundation, raised free speech concerns in the Xenu.net case, stating: \"The danger is that people will attempt to silence critics under the guise of copyright infringement.\" In \"Beyond the First Amendment: The Politics of Free Speech and Pluralism\", author Samuel Peter Nelson raises the question: \"Why should a private actor (Church of Scientology) in the United States have the power to restrict the speech of a Dutch citizen publishing in the Netherlands whose speech is protected by Dutch law?\" In an interview on the Xenu.net controversy, Harvard Law School professor Jonathan Zittrain predicted that more conflicts involving the Church of Scientology were likely to occur in the future. Zittrain stated: \"The cutting edge on such battles is often the Church of Scientology. They have very well honed procedures and tactics to remove information that they find objectionable.\"\n\nMentioning Operation Clambake as an example of an Internet response to a controversial movement in their 2003 book \"Understanding New Religious Movements\", John A. Saliba and J. Gordon Melton referred to the site as \"a Web page devoted to the negative aspects of Scientology\". Douglas E. Cowan, writing in \"Religion Online\" (2004), characterizes Operation Clambake as an example of a \"surfeit of sites dedicated to so-called watchdog organizations or […] home pages of disgruntled ex-members.\" According to Cowan, Internet coverage of the Church of Scientology represents an \"important example of competing propagandas that struggle for authority and control both online and off\". Cowan proposes that Operation Clambake seeks to demonstrate that the Church of Scientology \"lacks any redeeming social value\". Cowan notes that most of the content presented by the site is not the result of original research by the owner but rather a collection of hyperlinks to media reports, scholarly and popular articles, court documents and out-of-print books. Complemented by links to like-minded sites hosting essentially the same information, the result is thought by Cowan to be inflation of the apparent quantity of anti-Scientology material available. According to Cowan, Operation Clambake is not designed to be read by Scientologists, but rather meant for those who already hold negative views about Scientology and might join Heldal-Lund in his self-stated purpose: \"The Fight Against the Church of Scientology on the Net.\" Cowan compares the site to a propaganda effort, and writes that a message is presented repeatedly, consistently to a target audience that already has some affinity with it, leading to a somewhat self-limiting construction of reality.\n\n"}
{"id": "4341958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4341958", "title": "Pensions in the United States", "text": "Pensions in the United States\n\nPensions in the United States consist of the Social Security system, a federal social insurance program which pays old-age pensions, as well as various private pension plans offered by employers, insurance companies, and trade unions. Private pension plans are governed by various federal statutes and regulations: labor law regarding the establishment (primarily ERISA), maintenance, and termination of pension plans; tax treatment of pension plans and pension distributions; provisions of securities law relevant to pension plans; pension-related bankruptcy laws; protection against age discrimination and other requirements imposed on pensions. Pension law also incorporates judicial decisions with respect to those federal statutes and regulations.\n\nPension plans and benefits may also be subject to state law.\n\n\nThe primary law governing the establishment, maintenance, and termination of pension plans in the United States is the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). ERISA includes various provisions of labor law, as well as provisions of tax law that parallel certain provisions in the Internal Revenue Code. (Tax law provisions of ERISA will be separately addressed in the tax law section below.)\n\nVarious federal tax provisions of the Internal Revenue Code apply to pension plans. Similar rules apply to profit-sharing plans and stock bonus plans, which are commonly used for retirement savings. Significant portions of these tax law provisions parallel portions of ERISA (see discussion in a preceding section of this article).\n\nIn April 2012, the Northern Mariana Islands Retirement Fund filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. The retirement fund is a defined benefit type pension plan and was only partially funded by the government, with only $268.4 million in assets and $911 million in liabilities. The plan experienced low investment returns and a benefit structure that had been increased without raises in funding.\n\nAccording to \"Pensions and Investments\", this is \"apparently the first\" US public pension plan to declare bankruptcy.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "41199055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41199055", "title": "Pines Garden", "text": "Pines Garden\n\nPines Garden is a house and large garden, located on the winding beach road from St Margaret's at Cliffe village down to St Margeret's Bay (beach).\n\nFrederick Ernest Cleary (1905-1984) CBE, who was originally a Chartered Surveyor from Crouch End, London. Later, he formed a very successful company ‘Haslemere Estates’, who refurbished many of the City of London’s fine old buildings during the 70's and 80's. In 1970, he formed the Bay Trust to 'preserving the natural environment in the proximity of St. Margaret’s Bay and undertaking related environmental education initiatives'. This was due to his work in inner London, where he created green and restful spaces in the City, often on the site of bomb damaged sites. His philanthropic activities and his writing of two books ‘Beauty and the Borough’\nand ‘The Flowering City’, resulting in him earning the nickname ‘Flowering Fred’.\nIn 1975 Fred purchased and refurbished an old rectory building ('Ripple Down House') in Ringwould. This became an environmental education centre for children.\n\n'Alistair Gould', the founder’s grandson is on the current trust.\n\nThe Bay Trust bought the house and the gardens in 1960s. Edda Jones, an artist, was staying in the house, while the Trust added to the garden before they opened it to the public But later the cottage would be demolished as it was not energy inefficient and could not be converted. The trust then opened the garden to the public.\n\nThe garden has many features including a waterfall and adjoining lake, a grass labyrinth and an organic kitchen garden with around 40 different species of fruit and vegetables.\n\nThe garden has been run organically since 2002. Due to the ethos of the Trust management, who wish to work in harmony with nature and this includes recycling, composting and uses natural predators to control pests\n\nThe garden also has a statue of Winston Churchill by Oscar Nemon.\n\nThe garden also hosts many projects by contemporary artists.\n\nNote: Calyx means \"husk\" or \"pod\" and the centre is pod shaped.\n\nBuilt on the demolished site of the original bungalow of the garden.\n\nThe conference centre (built to passiv-haus standards) was designed, by a collaborative team of 'Helionix Designs' (architect \"Alistair Gould\"), Structural Engineer \"Cameron Taylor\" (now part of Scott Wilson Group)and 'Conker Conservation'. The Bay Trust and designers are all members of the 'Carbon Free Group'.\n\nIt has pneumatic rammed chalk walls (maximum thickness of 650mm).\n\nIts domed roof (Catalan vault) uses techniques patented by Spanish-American architect Rafael Guastavino in 1885.\n'Rings of local clay tiles are glued together with fast setting gypsum plaster to form a self-supporting dome that is constantly in a state of compression'.\n\nThe project was completed in Autumn 2006.\n\nTotal embodied energy of the building is calculated to be 299 MJ/m2, while embodied carbon is 33 kg CO2/m2. This is compared to 1393 MJ/m2 and 147 kg CO2/m2 for a similar concrete building shell.\n\nThe result is a venue that achieves savings of 66% in target energy consumption and 67% in target CO2 emissions.\n\nHot water is supplied via solar thermal panels, while a small woodchips-fed biomass generator produces heat for an underfloor heating system if additional warmth is required.\n\nWater management is also another essential part of the design. The water supply comes from a sustainably managed bore-hole with all rainwater run-off feeding back into this supply. Grey and black water is fed through a reed bed filter and the resulting cleaned water is then can be used to feed the Pines Garden plants.\n\nIt claims to be the first conference building in Europe to reach beyond carbon neutral and become carbon negative. It also has a grass roof.\n\nThe venue is available for private hire and gained a licence for wedding and other ceremonies.\n\nSt. Margaret’s Museum and The Pines Garden Tea Room are located at Pines Garden. The museum features changing displays about local history including St Margaret’s during WW2, and one-time resident Noël Coward. Other topics focus on area natural history and the environment.\n\nSince opening in 2006, the Calyx has won several regional, national and international awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3700253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3700253", "title": "Police v. City of Newark", "text": "Police v. City of Newark\n\nPolice v. City of Newark, 170 F.3d 359 (3d Cir. 1999), was a case challenging an internal order of the City of Newark Police Department requiring its officers to be clean-shaven. The Third Circuit Court of Appeals held that the order merited strict scrutiny and did not survive exacting review. Therefore, the order violated the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment.\nThe order contained two exceptions, one for undercover police officers and one for medical conditions, such as psuedofolliculitis barbae. The plaintiffs, Officers Faruq Abdul–Aziz and Shakoor Mustafa, were Sunni Muslim Newark Police Officers. They argued that the order violated their Free Exercise Rights under the First Amendment by requiring them to shave their beards in violation of their religious beliefs. The United States District Court for the District of New Jersey enjoined the police department from enforcing the order against the plaintiffs.\n\nIn an opinion written by then Judge Samuel Alito, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court's ruling, holding that the internal order merited strict scrutiny and that the denial of an exemption to the plaintiffs violated the Free Exercise Clause. The court reasoned that the exemption for undercover officers was not problematic, as it did not undermine the purpose behind the order, which was uniformity of appearance among officers. The medical exemption, however, did frustrate uniformity. This suggested that in the department's view a secular reason (such as a medical condition) for wearing a beard was important enough to forego uniformity, but a religious reason was not. Because the department had preferred the secular to the religious, heightened scrutiny was necessary, and none of the interests argued by the Police Department could withstand strict scrutiny.\n\nIn \"Employment Division v. Smith\", the Supreme Court held that neutral laws of general applicability did not violate the Free Exercise Clause even if those laws burdened religious exercise. The Court in \"Smith\" did not address whether laws containing exemptions are appropriately considered neutral and generally applicable. \"Police v. City of Newark\" holds that laws with even a single exemption are not neutral and generally applicable. This decision was considered during the Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Justice Alito.\n"}
{"id": "1968261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1968261", "title": "Pregnancy discrimination", "text": "Pregnancy discrimination\n\nPregnancy discrimination is a type of employment discrimination that occurs when expectant women are fired, not hired, or otherwise discriminated against due to their pregnancy or intention to become pregnant. Common forms of pregnancy discrimination include not being hired due to visible pregnancy or likelihood of becoming pregnant, being fired after informing an employer of one's pregnancy, being fired after maternity leave, and receiving a pay dock due to pregnancy. Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women prohibits dismissal on the grounds of maternity or pregnancy and ensures right to maternity leave or comparable social benefits. The Maternity Protection Convention C 183 proclaims adequate protection for pregnancy as well. Though women have some protection in the United States because of the Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978, it has not completely curbed the incidence of pregnancy discrimination. The Equal Rights Amendment could ensure more robust sex equality ensuring that women and men could both work and have children at the same time.\n\nEmployers discriminate on the grounds of pregnancy for a number of reasons:\n\nIn the United States, since 1978, employers are legally bound to provide the same insurance, leave pay, and additional support that would be bestowed upon any employee with medical leave or disability. This only applies to companies with 15 or more employees (including part-time and temporary workers).\n\nWith more than 70% of women with children in the work force, pregnancy discrimination is the fastest growing type of discrimination in the U.S., and in 2006 represented approximately 6.5% of all discrimination claims filed. The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission mediates claims between employees and employers. In 2006, the EEOC handled 4,901 claims with an eventual monetary pay-out by various organizations totaling $10.4 million.\n\nIn 1978, the U.S. Congress passed the Pregnancy Discrimination Act (P.L. 95-555), an amendment to the sex discrimination section of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\n\nIn 2002, California's Paid Family Leave (PFL) insurance program, also known as the Family Temporary Disability Insurance (FTDI) program, extended unemployment disability compensation to cover individuals who take time off work to bond with a new minor child. PFL covers employees who take time off to bond with their own child or their registered domestic partner's child, or a child placed for adoption or foster-care with them or their domestic partner.\n\nVarious U.S. cities have passed additional laws to protect pregnant workers. In 2014, New York City enacted the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act which requires employers offer reasonable accommodations \"to the needs of an employee for her pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical condition that will allow the employee to perform the essential requisites of the job\". Also in 2014, Philadelphia amended an ordinance which actually compels employers to make reasonable workplace accommodations for female employees \"affected by pregnancy\" meaning pregnant women or women who have medical conditions relating to pregnancy or childbirth. Philadelphia's revised ordinance identifies several possible required accommodations, including restroom breaks, periodic rest for those whose jobs require that they stand for long periods of time, special assistance with manual labor, leave for a period of disability arising from childbirth, reassignment to a vacant position, and job restructuring. In 2015, the Washington D.C. passed the Protecting Pregnant Workers Fairness Act of 2014 which is effective March 3, 2015. In 2018 Massachusetts did the same, with the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act going into effect on April 1, 2018.\n\nThe Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 and Family and Medical Leave Act are rooted in several major court decisions leading up to them.\n\nIn the 1908 case \"Muller v. Oregon\" the Supreme Court upheld a decision limiting women to 10-hour workdays based on the idea that \"performance of maternal functions\" made women inherently incapable of the same work that men did. In the 1950s and 1960s laws in several states prohibited women from working and banned their hiring for some length of time before and after delivery. In 1971 \"Reed v. Reed\" became the first Supreme Court decision to invoke the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment to protect women from discrimination on the basis of sex.\n\nIn 1970 and 1971 the rights of pregnant schoolteachers were called into question. Many schoolteachers were forced to take unpaid maternity leaves around the fourth to sixth month of pregnancy for the reasons that it was potentially dangerous for the mother or child if the woman continued to work, she might not be able to focus on teaching, and students would be distracted by the visible signs of pregnancy. In 1974 in \"Cleveland Board of Education v. LaFleur\", the Supreme Court declared mandatory unpaid leave policies unconstitutional This was a big step towards gaining equal rights for women in the workforce.\n\nTwo other major cases in the 70s appear to be directly responsible for the Pregnancy Discrimination Act. The first, \"Geduldig v. Aiello\" (1974), ruled that the exclusion of medical benefits for pregnant women in California by the California State Disability Insurance program was non-discriminatory.\n\nWhile it is true that only women can become pregnant…the [California State Disability Insurance] program divides potential recipients into two groups- pregnant women and nonpregnant persons. While the first group is exclusively female, the second group includes members of both sexes. The fiscal and actuarial benefits of the program thus accrue to members of both sexes.\n\nIn 1976 \"General Electric v. Gilbert\", 429 U.S. 125, set a similar precedent for private insurance through an employer. The uproar from these two decisions appears to have directly fueled the creation of the Pregnancy Discrimination Act by Congress.\n\nIn 2009 the Supreme Court again addressed Pregnancy discrimination with their ruling in \"AT&T Corp. v. Hulteen\" that held that maternity leave taken before the passage of the 1978 Pregnancy Discrimination Act cannot be considered in calculating employee pension benefits, therefore essentially implying that the Pregnancy Discrimination Act is not retroactive.\n\nIn 2014, a bill was passed in hopes of preventing discrimination. It has yet to become a federal law.\n\nThe European Union regards less favourable treatment on grounds of pregnancy as unlawful, and the same thing as discrimination on grounds of sex (contrasting to the American case of \"Geduldig v. Aiello\" and consistent with the American approach in the Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978).\n\nThe European Court of Justice decided in \"Dekker v Stichting Vormingscentrum Voor Jonge Volwassen (VJV-Centrum) Plus\" that pregnancy discrimination was sex discrimination without any requirement for comparing this unfavourable treatment to a man. It reaffirmed this position in \"Webb v EMO Air Cargo (No 2)\" where a woman had been dismissed because she had attempted to take pregnancy leave, but had not disclosed this to her employer when hired. As well as a dismissal, a failure to renew a fixed term contract may also be discrimination. Furthermore, during any period of pregnancy or maternity leave there may be no detriment or dismissal in connection with a period of sickness. A woman is also allowed to shorten her maternity leave and return to work when she becomes pregnant again to get the second period of pregnancy, even though she is not fully able to carry out all her normal job functions.\n\nIt is also clear that women who are pregnant are protected at job interviews. In the \"Tele Danmark\" case a woman was held not to be at fault for not telling an employer she was pregnant while being interviewed for a job, despite knowing she was pregnant. However, a study published in The Netherlands is 2016 showed that 43% of active women experienced discrimination related to pregnancy of motherhood.\n\nIn Canada, pregnancy discrimination is considered a violation of sex-discrimination laws and will be treated as such.\n\nMexico and Japan have laws to combat pregnancy discrimination.\n\nIn Japan, Labor Standards Act (Act No. 49 of 1947) provides that an employer must provide an expectant mother worker with maternity leave for 6 weeks (14 weeks for multiple pregnancy beyond twins) before her child birth and 8 weeks after the child birth. \nArticle 9 of Equal Employment Opportunity Act between Men and Women (Act No. 113 of July 1, 1972) prohibits unequal employment condition for the reasons of marriage, pregnancy, maternity leave provided in Article 65 of Labor Standards Act and other reasons related childbirth. These unequal employment conditions includes retirement, dismissal. \nIn addition, Act on the Welfare of Workers Who Take Care of Children or Other Family Members Including Child Care and Family Care Leave (Act No. 76 of 1991) provides that employees has the right to take unpaid child care leave for one year, and Article 10 prohibits for an employer to dismiss or disadvantageously treat a worker who have taken or is about to take Child Care Leave. as\nAlthough Maternity Leave and Child Care Leave are basically unpaid leave, Basic Childcare Leave Benefits are provided based on Employment Insurance Act during Child Care Leave and Maternity Allowance and Lump-sum Childbirth Allowance are given based on Health Insurance Act (Act No.70 of 1922). Basic Childcare Leave Benefit is 50% of the employee's wage, and Maternity Allowance is two thirds of the wage. As of 2013, Lump-sum Childcare allowance is ¥420,000 (US$4,075).\n\nIn Hong Kong, it is a criminal offence if an employer discriminates against a pregnant employee if the employee has been hired under a continuous contract. An employer who contravenes this can be liable to prosecution and, on conviction, fined HK$100,000. The employer would also be required to pay the employee's wages in lieu of notice, a further sum equivalent to one month's wages as compensation, and 10-weeks' maternity leave pay. Pregnant workers who feel they have been discriminated against because of their pregnancy are also protected by the Sex Discrimination Ordinance. Despite the law, women may still feel pressured to leave the workforce due to stress.\n\nIn Taiwan, pregnancy discrimination is considered a violation of sex-discrimination laws and are treated as such if an employer is found guilty. Despite the laws, discrimination against women and especially pregnant women is common place as it is rarely reported and discrimination is tolerated.\n\nDiscrimination of pregnant women is the main issue in Cambodia's garment industry. They were misunderstood with lower efficiency, frequent toilet breaks and maternity leave. According to one of the Cambodian female worker \"It doesn't matter whether you are pregnant or not – whether you are sick or not – you have to sit and work. If you take a break, the work piles up on the machine and the supervisor will come and shout. And if a pregnant worker is seen working \"slowly\" then her contract will not be renewed.\"\n\nPregnant women are forced to either leave the factory or go for an abortion. In Cambodia abortion was legalized in 1997, yet 9 out of 10 Cambodian women believed that this action is illegal and undergo this process through unsafe clinics. According to the \"Women's Health Cambodia\", more than 90% of garment workers did not know abortion was legal and 18% out of 900 garment workers had an abortion. Almost 75% of the women do not know where to seek for a safe abortion as there were little information provided to them.\n\nIn Cambodia, there are laws that provide pregnant women three months of maternity leave and maternity pay if the worker has worked for a year or longer. Most of the workers were given a fixed duration contract (FDC) with a 6 month contract period. Often the FDC of pregnant women are shortened as factories do not want to provide extra cost of maternity pays or any other health care.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10626861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10626861", "title": "Presidential Records Act", "text": "Presidential Records Act\n\nThe Presidential Records Act (PRA) of 1978, , is an Act of Congress of the United States governing the official records of Presidents and Vice Presidents created or received after January 20, 1981, and mandating the preservation of all presidential records. Enacted November 4, 1978, the PRA changed the legal ownership of the official records of the President from private to public, and established a new statutory structure under which Presidents must manage their records.\n\nSpecifically, the Presidential Records Act:\n\n\nRelated Executive Orders:\n\nIn June 2018, Politico reports that President Donald Trump frequently and routinely would tear up papers he received, resulting in government officials taping them together for archiving to ensure that Trump did not violate the Presidential Records Act.\n\nIn July 2018, Business Insider reported that President Trump gave his personal cellphone number to various world leaders, having unrecorded conversations with them completely without U.S. officials' knowledge.\n\nIn July 2018, CNN reports that The White House has suspended the practice of publishing public summaries of President Donald Trump's phone calls with world leaders, two sources with knowledge of the situation tell CNN, bringing an end to a common exercise from Republican and Democratic administrations. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "598010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=598010", "title": "Provisional government", "text": "Provisional government\n\nA provisional government, also called a morning or transitional government, is an emergency governmental authority set up to manage a political transition, generally in the cases of new nations or following the collapse of the previous governing administration. Provisional governments are generally appointed, and frequently arise, either during or after civil or foreign wars.\n\nProvisional governments maintain power until a new government can be appointed by a regular political process, which is generally an election. They may be involved with defining the legal structure of subsequent regimes, guidelines related to human rights and political freedoms, the structure of the economy, government institutions, and international alignment. Provisional governments differ from caretaker governments, which are responsible for governing within an established parliamentary system and serve as placeholders following a motion of no confidence, or following the dissolution of the ruling coalition.\n\nIn opinion of Yossi Shain and Juan J. Linz, provisional governments can be classified to four groups:\n\n\nThe establishment of provisional governments is frequently tied to the implementation of transitional justice. Decisions related to transitional justice can determine who is allowed to participate in a provisional government.\n\nThe early provisional governments were created to prepare for the return of royal rule. Irregularly convened assemblies during the English Revolution, such as Confederate Ireland (1641–49), were described as \"provisional\". The Continental Congress, a convention of delegates from 13 British colonies on the east coast of North America became the provisional government of the United States in 1776, during the American Revolutionary War. The government shed its provisional status in 1781, following ratification of the Articles of Confederation, and continued until it was supplanted by the United States Congress in 1789.\n\nThe practice of using \"provisional government\" as part of a formal name can be traced to Talleyrand's government in France in 1814. In 1843, American pioneers in the Oregon Country, in the Pacific Northwest region of North America established the Provisional Government of Oregon—as the U.S. federal government had not yet extend its jurisdiction over the region—which existed until March 1849. The numerous provisional governments during the Revolutions of 1848 gave the word its modern meaning: A liberal government established to prepare for elections.\n\nNumerous provisional governments have been established since the 1850s, including:\nProvisional governments were also established throughout Europe as occupied nations were liberated from Nazi occupation by the Allies.\n\n"}
{"id": "31846047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31846047", "title": "The National Law Review", "text": "The National Law Review\n\nThe National Law Review is an American law journal, legal news website and legal analysis content-aggregating database. The site offers news coverage and analysis of recent court decisions, regulatory changes and legislative actions and includes original content and content submitted by various professionals in the legal and business communities. The online version of \"The National Law Review\" was started as a research tool by a group of corporate attorneys looking to store and classify useful legal analysis and news they located on the internet. The on-line version specializes in news and analysis for the following types of American law: Administrative law; Banking law; Bankruptcy law; Civil Procedure;Common law; Competition law; Conflicts of laws; Construction law; Consumer Protection; Contract law; Copyright law; Business Criminal law; Cyberlaw; Election law; Energy law; Entertainment law; Environment law; Family law; Financial regulation law; Health law; Immigration law; Insurance law; Intellectual property law; Labour law or Labor law; Military law; Municipal law; Patent law; Product liability; Property law; Securities law; Statutory law, Tort law; Tax Law; Trademark law and Trust law.\n\n\"The National Law Review\" print edition was founded in 1888 in Philadelphia by legal publishers Kay & Brother. It was a monthly scholarly law review which included sections such as Current Legal News, a Book Review section, a Digest of Important Decisions which summarized recent judicial decisions in various states, and a section devoted to Current Legal Thought organized by legal topic. Historically, articles in law reviews were often considered a persuasive authority in American courts, though this influence is generally thought to be waning in recent years.\n\nThe on-line edition of \"The National Law Review\" was developed in Chicago, Illinois by corporate attorney Jennifer Schaller and other legal and internet professionals in order to provide an easily accessible and reliable database of articles written by experts analyzing legal news and trends. The on-line edition has been described as more straightforward, practical and informative than a traditional law review, containing information of potential interest to both legal and business professionals, and it often serves as a reference source to other legal periodicals. In addition to serving as a source on emerging American legal issues to mainstream media, \"The National Law Review\" provides several services of interest to practicing lawyers and law students, running, for example, a law student writing competition that has published articles on multiple areas of the law.\n\n"}
{"id": "4403967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4403967", "title": "Working Conditions (Hotels and Restaurants) Convention, 1991", "text": "Working Conditions (Hotels and Restaurants) Convention, 1991\n\nThe Working Conditions (Hotels and Restaurants) Convention, 1991, officially the Convention concerning Working Conditions in Hotels, Restaurants and similar Establishments is an International Labour Organization Convention adopted in 1991 during the 78 International Labour Conference. \n\nIt sets standards for work in hotels and restaurants. According to the convention, workers have a right to \"reasonable normal hours of work\" and \"minimum daily and weekly rest periods\", compensation (in time or remuneration) of work on holidays. Furthermore a basic remuneration should be paid in regular intervals, regardless of tips. \n\nAs of September 2012, 16 countries were party to the convention: Austria, Barbados, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, Fiji, Germany, Guyana, Iraq, Ireland, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Mexico, the Netherlands (for Curaçao, Sint Maarten and the Caribbean Netherlands), Spain, Switzerland and Uruguay. \n\n"}
{"id": "1587608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1587608", "title": "Youth offending team", "text": "Youth offending team\n\nIn England and Wales, a youth offending team (YOT) is a multi-agency team that is coordinated by a local authority and overseen by the Youth Justice Board. It deals with young offenders, sets up community services and reparation plans, and attempts to prevent youth recidivism and incarceration. YOTs were set up following the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act with the intention of reducing the risk of young people offending and re-offending, and to provide counsel and rehabilitation to those who do offend. Youth offending teams engage in a wide variety of work with young offenders (those under 18) in order to achieve their aims. YOTs supervise young people who have been ordered by the court to serve sentences in the community or in the secure estate. Sometimes, teams organise meetings between offenders and victims to encourage apologies and reparation.\n\nYouth offending teams also arrange for Appropriate Adults to accompany under 17s after their arrest in order to advise and support the young person, and observe that they are treated fairly. When a youth is arrested and unaccompanied by an adult (relation or friend who is over 18), the station often calls the local YOT to request an appropriate adult to come to the relevant station.\n\nYouth Offending Teams engage young offenders in a wide range of tasks designed to put something positive back into the local community through unpaid activities, as well as preventing them from re-offending. YOTs ensure that offenders have a lower chance of re-offending by performing checkups during the rehabilitation process, checking on their accommodation, friends, possibilities of coercion into offending or drug/alcohol use, and so on.\n\nYouth Offending Teams can also provide important information relevant to a young persons case to police officers, social workers or the courts. \n\nAll members of Youth Offending Teams have expertise in areas relevant to the care and rehabilitation of young offenders. These may include areas such as the Police Service, Probation Service, Social Services, the Health Service, Education, and Psychology.\n\nEducation workers are some of the most important in Youth Offending Teams since most young offenders should be engaged with statutory full-time education. These workers liaise with schools and the education department where a young person is experiencing difficulties at school, particularly if there is a risk of exclusion or bullying. \n\nSometimes it can be useful for the education worker to offer a young person support with some particular aspect of his/her school work: study skills, coursework, or facilitating communication between the young person, the school, and the home. Education workers also arrange for the continuing education of young people who go into custody, particularly if they are still of school age. If possible, the workers ensure that the work done in school and custody are of equal content and quality.\n\nSchool leavers also work with education workers if they need to acquire skills to apply for jobs, for example CV writing, form filling, interview advice and so on. Some educational workers also encourage young people to express their feelings in writing as a way to vent aggravation or to comprehend their difficult situation.\n\nMeetings between psychologists and the young person, their family, and the victim(s) in any combination or separately, can be arranged with some Youth Offending Teams who have psychologists on staff. These meetings base themselves on the idea that a young persons behaviour and offending is linked to other problems in his life.\n\nThe meetings are informal and typically last an hour but can vary in length depending on the preference of the young person and psychologist. While these meetings are primarily for conversation, the psychologist will sometimes employ drawing or other tests to explore problems. Occasionally the psychologist will include other family members if relevant. Sessions with the YOT psychologist normally occur every two to three weeks. \n\nReports made by the psychologist on the young person are included in that persons file, along with any other relevant information pertinent to the case.\n\nReprimands and final warnings were available to the police from 1998 until 2013, when they were replaced by the youth caution.\nUp until 2013, for relatively minor offences, the police could issue a reprimand. This was not a criminal conviction, but the reprimand was recorded on police national computer records and any further offending would usually have resulted in a Final Warning or court appearance. A young person who received a Police reprimand was not required to undertake any work with the YOT, although this may have sometimes been offered on a voluntary basis. A reprimand can be cited as a criminal record and would have to be declared for occupations exempt from the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act.\n\nUp until 2013, a final warning was a disposal used by the police, without a young offender (who had to admit their guilt) having to appear in court. They were issued to offenders aged 10–17. A record was made of this on the Police National Computer system. A Final Warning on a person's record influences the decision of the courts and police if a further offence is committed.\n\nYouth Offending Teams worked to prevent young people from reoffending after a Final Warning. They would visit and assess young offenders and undertake diversionary work before (or after) the formal Final Warning was issued.\n\nA Final Warning constitutes a criminal record but not a criminal conviction. It has to be declared when people apply for employment which is exempt from the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act. \n\nYouth cautions were reintroduced by the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 (LASPO) in April 2013, to replace reprimands and final warnings. A youth conditional caution had already been introduced a few years earlier( first piloted in 2009). In reintroducing youth cautions the government, in essence, returned to the pre YOT ways of dealing with juvenile offenders who are not prosecuted. Like reprimands and final warnings, the juvenile has to admit the offence to receive a caution.\n\nAvailable for a range of offences. If the penalty notice is paid within a specified period the young person does not receive a criminal record for the offence.\n\nAs an alternative to one of the formal disposals listed above, the police may agree to allow the young person to make an apology and /or repair damage/ make costs without any further action. This type of disposal is often used where the young person has no previous offending history and the offence is considered to be one suitable for resolution without formal intervention. The use of such disposals varies from police force to police force. Careful monitoring of their use is required to ensure they are only used appropriately and not primarily as a means of police saving time and, or, improving the 'clear up' rate.\n\nUp to a maximum of £100.\n\nLasting from 3 months to 3 years, with the young person being discharged on the condition that they do not commit any further offences within the specified period. If they re-offend they may be re-sentenced for the offences for which the discharge was imposed as well as the additional matters.\n\nWhen an offender comes to Court for the first time and pleads guilty, the court issues a Referral Order. This order is designed to prevent further offending by that young person. The referral order refers the young offender to a Youth Offending Team and places the young person under their supervision for a period of 3–12 months. The Youth Offending Team will set up a Panel Meeting for Community volunteers to meet with the young person.\n\nCommunity Panel Members try to agree a Referral Order Contract with the young person and their parent/carer, to prevent their further offending. Where victims of crime have agreed to attend or be represented, the victim will themselves be given the opportunity to speak about their feelings and how they have been affected. This might occur by audio, video, letter or face to face; the process is monitored by YOT team members. The contract agreed by the young person will include work on reparation to the victim(s). \n\nAt the Panel Meeting, the Community volunteers and a member of the Youth Offending Team will listen to the views of the young person regarding the offence. The views of witnesses, relatives, and the police may be represented in a report presented by the Youth Offending Team to Panel Members, and will be based on an interview with the young person and their parent/carer. Panel contracts will specify a range of programs for the young person in question. These contracts may include a letter of apology to the victims, community service, sessional training programs, or advice and support. The term of the Referral Order commences from the date signed by the young person. \n\nIf the young person fails to attend specified Panel meetings, this may lead to a reappearance in court. The violation of the contract will also lead to further legal action. Appointments and meetings must be kept. At the end of the program, the referral order is finished and the young person is released from the program. When this happens, the young person's conviction will be immediately \"spent\", meaning that they sometimes do not have to disclose it to employers etc.\n\nReparation orders can also be given by the court. A member of the Youth Offending Team, known as a Responsible Officer, is placed in charge of the reparation program, and will give support and advice for the offender. \n\nDuring several appointments, the young person is expected to perform tasks to account for their actions. Reparation orders can last a maximum of three months, aiming to prevent re-offending and rehabilitate. As with other court orders, inappropriate actions (arriving for an appointment under the influence, using abusive language, violence, or non-cooperation) will lead to a written warning. Further infractions will lead to \"breach action\", at a further Court hearing.\n\nCan be enforced with a maximum of three months for under 16 year olds, six months for those older. Restriction of liberty is enforced at the courts discretion. These orders are to combat night time offending, requiring the young person to be in the confines of their home between 8:00pm and 7:00am (for example), these orders can stand alone or be added alongside a community penalty.\n\nNote that this Order has been replaced with a Youth Rehabilitation Order for offences committed after 30 November 2009. See additional entry below.\n\nA supervision order is designed to stop young people from re-offending; however it is a much stricter, and longer lasting order than a reparation. A Supervising Officer from the YOT is attached to the young person’s case and provides support and advice as the offender completes the referral and supervision order. As with the reparation order, appointments must be kept (once or twice a week for the first three months of the order, and then weeks for the second three months, and fortnightly after that) and the young person must maintain a respectful and cooperative attitude. When the order is at least half complete and if the young person has made good progress, the supervision order may be returned to the court for early revocation. \n\nLike other orders, failure to comply at an acceptable level results in written warnings and then a further court appearance. In this second court appearance, the young person can be ordered to complete the program and issued with a fine, or resentenced for the original offence/s if the court feels it appropriate.\n\nNote that this Order has been replaced with a Youth Rehabilitation Order for offences committed after 30 November 2009. See additional entry below.\n\nCan last up to three years, these orders also restrict the liberties of the young person, with weekly contact for the first three months, fortnightly for the next three, and monthly thereafter. This order is only for those over 16 years of age.\n\nNote that this Order has been replaced with a Youth Rehabilitation Order for offences committed after 30 November 2009. See additional entry below.\n\nRequiring between 40 and 240 hours of community service, or a minimum of 5 hours a week, the order must be completed in 12 months after it has been issued. Note, this order and the rehabilitation order above can be combined as one.\n\nNote that this Order has been replaced with a Youth Rehabilitation Order for offences committed after 30 November 2009. See additional entry below.\n\nThe Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 introduced this new generic community sentence, effective late 2009, replacing several existing sentences. \nNote that the old Orders, including some of those listed above, continue to exist for those young people who committed a criminal offence prior to the implementation data of 30 November 2009. Those young people committing an offence after this date, where the opinion of the court is to hand down a community sentence, will in most circumstances receive a Referral Order, YRO or custodial sentence. \n\nThe following community penalties have now been replaced by the YRO:\n\nA YRO can have the following requirements attached as a condition of the court order:\n\n"}
