{"id": "28620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28620", "title": "1985 Helsinki Protocol on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions", "text": "1985 Helsinki Protocol on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions\n\nThe Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution on the Reduction of Sulphur Emissions or their Transboundary Fluxes by at least 30 per cent is a 1985 protocol to the Convention on Long-Range Transboundary Air Pollution agreement that provided for a 30 per cent reduction in sulphur emissions or transboundary fluxes by 1993. The protocol has been supplemented by the 1994 Oslo Protocol on Further Reduction of Sulphur Emissions.\n\n\"opened for signature\" - July 8, 1985\n\n\"entered into force\" - September 2, 1987\n\n\"parties\" - (25) Albania, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Republic of Macedonia, Netherlands, Norway, Russia, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36343961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36343961", "title": "2012 Romanian constitutional crisis", "text": "2012 Romanian constitutional crisis\n\nThe 2012 Romanian constitutional crisis was a major political and constitutional conflict between President Traian Băsescu and Prime Minister Victor Ponta of Romania. A dispute arose between the two regarding the representation of Romania to the European Council reunion of June 28, 2012. The dispute degenerated in civil disobedience and conflicting views between political parties. On 12 December 2012, Băsescu and Ponta signed an agreement on institutional cohabitation, effectively ending the crisis.\n\nPresident Traian Băsescu and Prime Minister Victor Ponta became locked in a constitutional judicial conflict over Romania's representation at the June 28, 2012 meeting of the European Council. President Traian Băsescu submitted a complaint to Romania's Constitutional Court in point of the conflict with Government concerning the representation on the European Council. Ponta declared to the Romanian press agency Mediafax that misconception claimed by President Băsescu to the Constitutional Court is between Presidency and Parliament, and Court judges can only determine the existence of a conflict, that can not be solved only by amending the Constitution.\n\nParliament plenary adopted on June 12, 2012, with 249 votes in favor, 30 against and two abstentions, a political declaration recommending that at European Council meeting on June 28 Romania to be represented by Premier Victor Ponta, not by President Traian Băsescu. That decision triggered a fierce conflict between the two Palaces. , President Traian Băsescu sent to Premier Victor Ponta a letter which drew attention that participation in the European Council without a mandate from the President legally equalizes with ownership of a constitutional prerogatives of the President. At a press conference, Ponta broke the letter, ironically replying this gesture.\n\nOn June 27, Constitutional Court decides that the President is required to attend the European Council in Brussels. Ponta respond in a way that nobody expected. Government takes in authority the Official Monitor, delaying publication of the Constitutional Court decision, regarding participation in European Council and making the presence of Victor Ponta in Brussels to be legal.\n\nVictor Ponta obtained his PhD in law from the University of Bucharest, in July 2003, with a thesis entitled \"International Criminal Court\". Scientific advisor of this piece of work was Adrian Năstase, then Prime Minister in office, who serves a 1-year sentence in prison since 2012.\n\nOn June 18, 2012, online edition of \" Nature\" magazine published the news that Victor Ponta, \"Prime Minister of Romania, has been accused of copying large sections of his 2003 PhD thesis in law from previous publications, without proper reference\". The charge was made on the basis of documents compiled by an anonymous whistleblower. \"Ponta obtained his doctorate from the University of Bucharest while he was Secretary of State in Năstase I Cabinet, who was his doctoral thesis supervisor\", the author writes.\n\nConcomitantly, imputation of plagiarism was also published by German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. Karl Peter Schwarz, a journalist from the newspaper and author of the inquiry published by him, commented on the subject in an interview on June 20, 2012, in which showed that the case would be worse than plagiarists politicians in Germany and Hungary, whereas the latter \"didn't copy whole pages of the thesis, as he did\". News from \"Nature\", about plagiarism, were resumed by Romanian and international press, in România Liberă, Hotnews.ro, Financial Times Deutschland, The Guardian, weekly Die Zeit, Il Messaggero (Italy), El Mundo (Spain), The Hindu (India), Le Monde, BBC.\n\nA document published by TVR presents the passages of thesis copied in parallel with source texts. It appears that much of the work was copied, word for word, from the following works:\n\nMembers of the National Council for the Recognition of Degrees, Diplomas and Certificates decided, after examining the thesis of PM Ponta, that he had plagiarized 85 pages of the work, although in the press had conveyed numbers from 30 to about 130 pages plagiarized from these works.\n\nA detailed analysis in parallel of the texts conducted by journalists from \"România Liberă\" indicated not only a taking over of the informative parts, but also of the authors' personal assessments, of the rhetorical questions put by them, of the references to older texts of the same author, and orthography mistakes. The doctoral thesis was subsequently published in book form, with a preface signed by even I. Diaconu (author of one of the three plagiarized works), having Daniela Coman as co-author. Other sources indicate author's preface as Adrian Năstase.\n\nOn the other hand, National Ethics Council decided on July 18, 2012 that Ponta didn't plagiarize.\n\nOn July 20, 2012, Ethics Committee of the University of Bucharest decided that Victor Ponta deliberately plagiarized, finding passages copied on 115 pages of the 297 (namely the thesis excluding Năstase's preface and appendices). In the same day, \"Nature\" magazine related about contradictory verdicts of Government Ethics Commission and Ethics Committee of the University.\n\nPresident Traian Băsescu and former Minister of Regional Development and Tourism, Elena Udrea, were intercepted in the dossier of former head of National Agency for Fiscal Administration, Sorin Blejnar. President Băsescu spoke on the phone with Blejnar about Rompetrol problem, but also about the situation of a company that has contracts with the State. Elena Udrea also had four discussions with Blejnar, in that they fixed appointments.\n\nThe phone of former head of the IRS was heard by prosecutors in the case of diesel fuel imports in Brașov, in that the former head of NAFA was indicted by DIICOT prosecutors for favoring the offender.\n\nSorin Blejnar called in September 2010 the President Traian Băsescu, to inform him about a construction company, which has won numerous contracts with the State and which has debts. The company belongs to some PDL friends. Likewise, President demanded explanations about Rompetrol and told Blejnar to find solutions together with the Minister of Justice.\n\nThe Presidential Administration recognized the interceptions in DIICOT dossier. According to the Presidency, talks between President Băsescu and former head of NAFA focused on the recovery of Rompetrol company's debts to the State, given that combating tax evasion and collection of receivables from the state budget made the object of a CSAT decision of 28 June 2010.\n\nThe judicial inspection of the Superior Council of Magistracy initiated an investigation to see if the DIICOT case prosecutor in the Dossier \"Diesel fuel\" complied with the procedure when introduced interceptions with President Traian Băsescu in the dossier devoid of classifying them and to investigate a possible leak from Brașov Court.\n\nOn January 4, 2013, there were held elections for the offices of President and Vice-President of the Superior Council of Magistracy. The prosecutor Oana Schmidt Hăineală was chosen as president of the SCM, after being heard by the members of SCM, with his rival, the judge Mircea Aron. The conduct of elections triggered disputes and controversies between Superior Council of Magistracy and National Union of Judges in Romania, that roughly criticized the elections, whereon it considers untransparent and unprofessional. Likewise, the Magistrates Association in Romania expressed dissatisfaction with the appointment of Oana Hăineală as head of the SCM.\n\nAs a release of the situation, the Department for judges of the Superior Council of Magistracy demanded the resignation of honor of Oana Schmidt Hăineală as president of SCM and, simultaneously, asked judges Alina Ghica and Cristi Danileț to relinquish the nomination for Vice-President of the Council.\n\nIn a report on justice in Romania, drawn up by the European Commission on January 30, 2013, appear three ministers investigated for corruption. According to a European official, two of ministers referred to in the CVM report are Liviu Dragnea and Varujan Vosganian. According to Prime Minister Victor Ponta, the third one is Relu Fenechiu. Dragnea is being investigated for alleged involvement in fraud in the referendum regarding the dismissal of President Traian Băsescu. Fenechiu was prosecuted, in the summer of 2012, in Transformer dossier, in which he's charged with complicity in abuse of office.\n\nLikewise, the European Commission Report on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism records that there's intimidation and harassment against individuals in state institutions, like National Integrity Agency, Constitutional Court, High Court of Cassation and Superior Council of Magistracy. \"The judicial independence doesn't exist\", affirmed Mark Gray, European Commission spokesman.\n\nTraian Băsescu's troubles began on June 18. Hidroelectrica, a state-owned energy company announced that it was insolvent. It was a move that Ponta hit the \"smart guys\", which have signed contracts with all governments (right- or left-wing) to buy cheap energy from Hidroelectrica. On the same day, Victor Ponta became embroiled in a plagiarism scandal: \"Nature\" magazine claimed that the Premier copied his dissertation in 2003.\n\nOn June 20, former PSD leader and premier and Ponta's political mentor Adrian Năstase was sentenced to two years of imprisonment after conviction in a corruption trial due to his alleged involvement in the dossier \"Quality Trophy\". The same evening, as police arrived at his home to escort him to prison, Năstase shot himself in an apparent suicide attempt and was transported to Floreasca Hospital. A week later, Adrian Năstase was transferred to Rahova Prison Hospital.\n\nOn June 25, the Romanian Senate decided to alter the functioning of the Constitutional Court law, such that the court will not be able to rule on Parliament decisions, thus facilitating the procedure for suspension of the President. In the following days, the Chamber of Deputies approved the referendum law amendment, which established that the President can be dismissed easily, only half the votes of those who come to the polls. Until that point, the law stipulated that the President is dismissed only if the proposal was passed by majority of voters registered on electoral lists. On June 27, the Pure uninominal law, initiated by Victor Ponta and Crin Antonescu, is declared unconstitutional. In the same day, PDL attack to the Constitutional Court the referendum law and the Constitutional Court Law amending.\n\nIn press occurs rumors about filing a penal complaint at Parquet against Victor Ponta by Traian Băsescu, as the Prime Minister to be, then suspended from office. President denies this version, but accuses Ponta that represents illegitimate Romania in Brussels. National Council for Titles, Diplomas and Certificates establishes that Victor Ponta plagiarized in his PhD thesis. Council claims that 85 pages are copied and called for the title of doctor withdrawal. But, before the verdict, Interim Minister of Education, Liviu Pop, dissolved the National Council for Titles, Diplomas and Certificates, such that the decision was void.\n\nOn July 3, the Romanian Parliament, at proposal of majority represented by USL, vote dismissal of President of the Senate, PDL leader Vasile Blaga, President of the Chamber of Deputies, PDL member Roberta Anastase and Ombudsman. Through an Emergency Ordinance, government restricts the attributions of the Constitutional Court, restoring them to the 2010 status quo.\n\nBăsescu was suspended as President of Romania, by Parliament, with 256 votes in favor and 114 against. There were two abstentions. After announcing the results, Parliament proposed that the presidential impeachment referendum to be held on July 29, 2012, proposal approved by the plenary with 242 votes in favor. Suspended president notified the Constitutional Court, calling for a constitutional legal conflict between president and Parliament. \"I do not defend the seat, but I want to defend the office\", President explained. Therewith, he reiterated accusations against USL and its leaders, accusing them of lying and wanted to subordinate the justice. \"If I return as president it will still be impossible for thieves and impostors from politics to negotiate with me their calmness. I think that Romanians do not want the peace during Iliescu government. I can not guarantee that I will continue to be a strong nut for those who believe that Romania can go forward with a justice that protects thieves\", Băsescu said.\n\nHe added that \"suspender's great argument is that I haven't popularity\", and if he will be reappointed at referendum and he will find Victor Ponta in office he will never entrust the prime minister function.\n\nOn the other hand, USL leaders Crin Antonescu and Victor Ponta ensured that there will be no pressure for justice and for other state institutions.\n\nVictor Ponta said that during this period of political crisis his family received threats, having to resort to state institutions for protection.\n\nOn July 9, the Constitutional Court ascertained President Băsescu's suspension and confirmed Crin Antonescu as Interim President. Therewith, Constitutional Court rejected complaints formulated by Vasile Blaga and Roberta Anastase, supported by PDL, regarding removal from office of President of the Senate, respectively President of the Chamber of Deputies.\n\nOn July 19, USL laid down, at the Office of the High Court of Cassation and Justice, a penal complaint against suspended President Traian Băsescu and other 14 people, for \"spreading false information, for defamation of the country and the nation and for endangering safety of the national economy and currency stability\".\n\n\nA referendum on impeaching President Traian Băsescu was held in Romania on July 29, 2012. The referendum was required after Parliament voted in favour of impeaching Băsescu on July 6, and had to take place within a month.\n\nInitially, in press was rumored that the referendum wasn't validated due to presence under 50% at vote. Central Electoral Bureau announced on August 1, 2012 the final results of the referendum regarding president Traian Băsescu's dismissal. According to BEC data, 46.24% of citizens entitled to vote attended the referendum. For Băsescu's dismissal voted 87.52%, and against 11.15%. 1.32% was the percentage of invalid votes. On August 2, the judge Aspazia Cojocaru declared, after the Constitutional Court meeting, that from her point of view referendum ought to be canceled, because it was based on false data. According to 20 October 2011 census, in Romania there aren't 18 million citizens eligible to vote, how many were registered on electoral lists.\n\nConstitutional Court decided on August 21 that 29 July Romanian presidential impeachment referendum is invalid, and Traian Băsescu will return at the Cotroceni Palace. According to official sources, the decision was taken by 6 votes to 3. Shortly after this decision, Foundation for Defense of Citizens Against State Abuses sued the Romanian state at European Court of Human Rights for invalidation of the referendum. \"Despite all normative acts in effect, recommendations of the Venice Commission, actual updated figures, the nine judges of the Constitutional Court of Romania ignore the political choice of the Romanians. In present-day Romania, the volition of 9 political appointees is above the volition of a nation\", was said in a FACIAS communique. Furthermore, Foundation representatives say in CCR decisions material is not respected the principle of the double degree of jurisdiction, in that CCR decisions can not be appealed to any internal tribunal.\n\nOn July 24, the President of PDL decided to urge voters to not vote at July 29's Romanian presidential impeachment referendum. The decision was made by 59 votes in favor and one abstention. Prime Minister Victor Ponta said that this action is illegal and the party led by Vasile Blaga should be acted criminally.\n\nAfter casting a ballot in the referendum, Prime Minister Victor Ponta expressed \"outrage\" over what he called his Hungarian counterpart Viktor Orbán's intervention in the country’s internal politics by telling ethnic Hungarians in Romania to stay away from the polls in a recall referendum. A count of voters from around 5pm showed turnout was lowest in the Harghita and Covasna counties, at 6.85% and 12.39%, respectively. Likewise, Attila Mesterházy, Hungarian Socialist Party leader, warned that Orbán's statements in Romania will affect the minority of ethnic Hungarians, \"both short-term and long-term\", considering that Hungarian Prime Minister gesture is an interference in the internal affairs of Romania. In both counties, ethnic Hungarians constitute the majority of the population.\n\nThe European Commissioner for Justice, Viviane Reding, said that after the referendum for President Traian Băsescu's dismissal, there were new pressures and attempts to influence the outcome. Reding said the referendum could not end the political crisis and pressures on judges have continued even after finding out the results, to influence them. She said \"the situation in Romania remains fragile\", expressing the hope that all political actors in the country are determined to bear \"durable and irreversible\" the rule of law and judicial independence. In response to Reding's statements, the President of the group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, Hannes Swoboda, said, on September 12, in the European Parliament plenary, that, by reactions to the situation in recent months in Romania, has been impugned the objectivity of EC. \"Why not responded with months before to the facts of Mr. Băsescu?\", S&D leader in PE asked. Hannes Swoboda also showed that 7.4 million Romanians expressed in the referendum against President Băsescu, much more than elected him. He accused PDL MEPs, including Monica Macovei, of propaganda with falsehoods against USL.\n\n\"Where, if not here in PE, you must tell why vote of 8.4 million citizens did not matter at all to you this summer, why a rule that isn't valid anywhere in Europe was imposed to Romania and here I refer to the 50% to vote\", said PSD MEP Cătălin Ivan, in his speech in EP plenary, at the debate on the political situation in Romania. Addressing to Reding, Ivan claimed that she has \"acted as canvasser\" of Traian Băsescu.\n\nLegislative elections were held in Romania on 9 December 2012. The Social Liberal Union of Prime Minister Victor Ponta won an absolute majority in both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate.\n\nCezar Preda resigned as senior vice-president of PDL and as president of PDL Buzău shortly after the Central Electoral Bureau published the first results of the elections, according to that he would have lost a new mandate in Buzău County, in favor of Marcel Ciolacu, his rival from the USL. Likewise, Cristian Preda resigned as senior vice president of the PDL during the Board of Directors meeting of December 14. A similar decision was taken by Sever Voinescu. Dan Diaconescu is not covered in the next Parliament. According to Gorj County Electoral Bureau, Diaconescu was voted by 32.47% of voters. His main opponent was himself Prime Minister of Romania, Victor Ponta, which received 60.98% of votes.\n\nOnce with the legislative elections, the Right Romania Alliance was dissolved, under the pretext that the alliance was only an electoral association. Amid the failure of elections, more PDL members demanded the resignation of president of the PDL, Vasile Blaga.\n\nThe electioneering, initiated on November 9 and ended on December 8, was not without incidents. Dan Diaconescu, candidate from PP-DD in the same college of Chamber of Deputies in Târgu Jiu with Prime Minister Victor Ponta, is investigated for electoral bribery. Authorities were notified after PSD representatives within Gorj County Council filed a complaint regarding the distribution of food and the organization of an electoral spectacle before the electioneering. According to the Emergency Ordinance issued on November 6 by Ponta Cabinet, offering food, drink and money in the campaign is illegal.\n\nThe President of PDL Vrancea, Alin Trășculescu, was caught in the act by anticorruption prosecutors while receiving €50,000 from a businessman in the form of bribe. He was detained for 24 hours for allegations of lobbyism, instigation to false and incitement to the misdemeanor of money laundering. Alin Trășculescu was under the supervision of National Anticorruption Department for two years. He claimed he could get contracts with the State, from the Ministry of Development and Tourism, led then by Elena Udrea. Eventually, Bucharest Court decided to arrest Alin Trășculescu for 29 days.\n\nIn a commune from Buzău County, USL representatives clashed with ARD sympathizers, the conflict being resolved at the arrival of local police. Two people were seriously injured and four others arrested in the altercation. On December 3, several dozens of supporters of USL, sympathizers of Victor Ponta candidate for another term as deputy in Gorj County had a confrontation which escalated into fray and fight in Târgu Jiu with the supporters of Dan Diaconescu, the PPDD rival of the Prime Minister. Following clashes, a young man was injured and taken to hospital.\n\nThe political turmoil fractured Romanian society. Currently, the Romanian people are divided into two camps: anti-Băsescu and pro-Băsescu. Despite high temperatures, driven from behind by their parties or on their own, in several areas of the country, people began to leave the streets to defend their favorites or to protest their opponents. Thus, relatively peaceful protests have erupted in major cities of Romania. In Arad, protests turned violent when Băsescu's opponents and sympathizers clashed. The groups were quickly dispersed by police. None of the groups participating in action on Thursday evening has no authorization, can not specifying how protests will last.\n\nStreet protests were also organized in Bucharest. About one hundred people protested on July 4 at University Square against the political class. Those present displayed messages against exploitation in Roșia Montană and shale gas. At Victory Square, occurred a new demonstration against the current leadership, and came, as one day ago, former Prime Minister Mihai Răzvan Ungureanu. He argued that it is normal that people to leave in the streets, criticizing USL leader Ponta and Antonescu, which he said that \"have succeeded to demonstrate how it can be trampled the Constitution\". Ungureanu has transmitted to demonstrators that \"he awaits them Thursday\", in Revolution Square, where the Liberal Democratic Party announced the organization of an anti-USL meeting.\n\nIn the following days, protests were amplified, such that more than 2,000 people gathered at the meeting on Thursday evening, in University Square, in a demonstration in support of President Traian Băsescu, attended by prominent members of the PDL. From Thursday's protests were not without any incidents. Attending the pro-Băsescu meeting, Raluca Turcan went faint to the end of the meeting and another five people needed medical care after they felt sick to rally in Revolution Square. Some demonstrators in University Square were fought, Thursday evening, and were separated by gendarmes in device on-site, that raised two people from among recalcitrants. Protesters had altercations after two of them were taken by the gendarmes.\n\nIn Timișoara, the two groups of protesters were nearly to confront. PDL sympathizers and supporters of the President gathered Thursday evening in the center of Timișoara to denounce what they call abusive measures taken by Ponta government in last days. Spirits were heated when in the area has appeared a group of supporters of USL, shouting slogans against the President. The dispute between the two groups, initially only verbal, risked to degenerate, so gendarmes immediately intervened to appease spirits.\n\nOn July 20, USL organized largest demonstration to date in Craiova, \"a major political rally with about 20,000 people\". At the manifestation attended Victor Ponta, Valeriu Zgonea, Olguța Vasilescu and several ministers. Olguța Vasilescu addressed to the crowd, saying that the country must get rid of \"democracy's cancer, Traian Băsescu\". Prime Minister Ponta also held a speech. Rovana Plumb, Titus Corlățean, Daniel Constantin, Mircea Geoană and Călin Popescu Tăriceanu were also present at the meeting. According to spokesman of Dolj County Inspectorate of Gendarmes Ionuț Savu, the meeting was attended by approximately 18,000 people, from several counties. In Marin Sorescu Theater area, traffic was blocked for several hours.\n\nAnother major political rallies were organized by USL on July 17 in Brașov (5,000 participants), on July 22 in Iași (15,000 participants), on July 24 in Oradea (8,000 participants), on July 25 in Pitești (7,000 participants) and Alexandria (1,500 participants), on July 26 at Romexpo, Bucharest (50,000 participants), on July 27 in Râmnicu Vâlcea (700 participants).\n\nIn several cities throughout Romania were organized pro-Băsescu meetings, that few people attended: Bucharest (15,000 participants), Iași (10,000 participants), Cluj-Napoca (10,000 participants), Slatina (100 participants).\n\nMore than 200 people gathered on August 21 to protest in front of the Constitutional Court. They asked judges to validate the 29 July referendum, as suspended president Traian Băsescu to be dismissed. Moreover, in a petition on the Internet, approximately 2,000 people demanded that the meeting where CCR will decide the fate of the referendum to be broadcast live by television. Protesters chanted \"Validation!\" and have stirred flags and banners with different messages. People said they have not been complied with voting options and they didn't trust even the decisions of the Constitutional Court.\n\nAfter the Constitutional Court invalidated the referendum for dismissal of Traian Băsescu, more people, dissatisfied with the verdict, went to the presidential campaign center, where they chanted against him, one of the protesters being detained by gendarmes. On the way to University Square, protesters also stopped in front of the Supreme Court Parquetry, where several minutes chanting \"Thieves\". At the same time, crowd was joined by a group of several dozen people that displayed a banner that was written \"Outlaws Association\", some of whom being dressed in national costumes.\n\nIn the evening, over 2,000 people protested in front of the National Theatre. Protesters shouted messages against CCR decision of invalidation of the referendum and asked Traian Băsescu to resign. Also, most people have come up with anti-US placards with messages, considering that Băsescu was reinstalled at Americans desire.\n\nSpirits were engirt and, at around 9:00 p.m., people breached fences and entered on the carriageway, blocking traffic. The gendarmes did not intervene, only forming a cordon to be prepared if people resort to violence. Traffic was diverted and only around midnight was resumed in the Square area, when protesters began to withdraw to their homes. Nevertheless, dozens of people continued to protest after midnight.\n\nGendarmes identified 106 people who blocked traffic on 21 and 22 August in University Square. Authorities say they have not protested peacefully and have disturbed public peace \"by producing noise with any device or object or by shouting\". Were given 50 fines between 200 and 1,000 lei those who troubled peace and other 49 people have records because they have blocked designedly the Magheru Boulevard. Likewise, 7 people have criminal records for destruction and outrage.\n\nAs provided in the Constitution, Gendarmerie has no right to make criminal records. On this line, the Interior Minister Mircea Dușa commissioned an inquiry to Gendarmerie, sanctioning those who have announced the criminal records and accusing them of incompetence.\n\nIoan Ghișe, the PNL Senator who asked Parliament to take note that Traian Băsescu is justly dismissed, protested in front of the Cotroceni Palace against Băsescu's reinstatement. With two banners attached to the body, Senator said that it is \"a symbolic gesture\" and promised to come every day, \"as will be fair weather\".\n\nPNL Senator, Ioan Ghișe, proposed two variants of attack of invalidation of the referendum: either the Parliament to resend the Constitutional Court decision through which the referendum is considered invalid, or the Parliament to ascertain that suspended president Traian Băsescu is dismissed, but Parliament's plenary didn't approved the debate of his projects.\n\nMoreover, Senator Ghișe prepared penal complaints against the six judges of the Constitutional Court who voted to invalidate the referendum of 29 July, with the following counts: usurpation of official qualities, undermining the sovereignty of the people, abuse in office and negligence in office. \"All these malfeasences are provided by the Penal Code with imprisonment\", PNL Senator said.\n\nOver 300 people gathered in front of Sector 2 City Hall booed President Traian Băsescu, when he arrived in arm with his daughter. People did care about this special moment in the life of Elena and shouted \"Resignation!\" or \"Down with Băsescu!\". Neither bridegroom's family arrival was not without incidents. Also to these people have yelled \"Thieves!\" and booed them. Some of the people gathered in front of Sector 2 City Hall have applauded him, the President, but after civil wedding.\n\nSome of the people who booed Băsescu's arrival say they are among those who protested against the president both at the University and at the Cotroceni Palace.\n\nBefore the arrival of family Băsescu at Sector 2 City Hall, between protesters and a few sympathizers of the president a conflict broke out. The groups first had an exchange of words, whereupon two old men began to jostle. The conflict was interrupted after intervention of local police. Around 4:00 p.m., gendarmes mounted fences at the church of Saint Spiridon, where took place the religious wedding of Elena Băsescu, to avoid more civil conflicts.\n\nHundreds of protesters gathered, on September 18, in front of the Cotroceni Palace in Bucharest, where chanted anti-presidential slogans. A young man who tried to throw over the fence of the palace a roll of toilet paper was forcedly stopped by gendarmes on the ground, fact that outraged the protesters.\n\nIn the same day, a Romanian climbed on the metal structure of the entry into the Brussels-Luxembourg railway station, under the office windows of Euro-MPs. \"He was equipped with a mouthpiece and have something to share with Barroso, Schulz, Mazzoni, mafia in Romania etc.\", PDL MEP Sebastian Bodu wrote on his Facebook account. PE security officers, police and firefighters forcedly climbed him down. Afterwards, he was arrested.\n\nMore than 20,000 people attended the military parade organized with the occasion of the National Day. The event was marked by moments in which President Traian Băsescu was booed by some of the spectators. At the same event, representatives of the Romanian Gendarmerie assaulted some of the protesters that attended the parade. The chief of Bucharest Gendarmerie, Brigadier General Eugen Meran, was warned, and Major Claudiu Gogu, Head of Service within the same structure, was dismissed, following internal controls regarding the fulfillment of the mission of ensuring public order and safety, by some representatives of the Gendarmerie, with the occasion of 1 December.\n\nReference rate leu/euro announced on July 23 by the National Bank of Romania reached a new record high, of 4.6460 units, and the official rate for the dollar struck a new record and rose to 3.7999 lei/dollar. From July 3, when political tensions began to increase, on the interbank market leu fell by 4.2% against the euro, and stock prices began to exceed record after record. The rate for Swiss franc increased from 3.8173 lei/franc to 3.8314 lei/franc, representing the maximum for the last 11 months. A higher official rate was recorded on August 12, 2011, when franc was quoted at 3.8926 lei.\n\nPolitically, infighting in the summer of 2012 had deteriorated the image of Romania in the face of European leaders. After the EU officials perceived the Ponta Government acts as abuses against the legal state, Romania risks to remain at the gates of the Schengen Area, but mainly to run out European funds. After Tuesday, July 3, President of European People's Party Wilfried Martens warned that Social Liberal Union has started a plan to undermine the state, and Wednesday German MEPs leader Markus Ferber said he would initiate the suspension of Romania in the European Council for \"lack of minimum standards functioning the legal state\", stake increased substantially when Alain Lamassoure and Elmar Brok asked the European Commission to prepare a report leading to suspension of voting rights of Romania in the European Council.\n\nThe critics that the EPP leaders and officials formulated against the Social Liberal Union Government, S&D leader Hannes Swoboda expressed the concern regarding the lack of concern of the EPP officials with respect to the erosion of democracy in FIDESZ led Hungary.\n\nAlike, PSD requested to Party of European Socialists the postponement or relocation to Brussels of PES Congress, as this event to be not \"shadowed\" by political infighting, and Brussels transfer decision will be officially announced next days, declared on August 30, Hannes Swoboda, S&D leader in the European Parliament.\n\nRadu Zlati, former adviser to the interim president Crin Antonescu, recognizes that the PNL leader has problems within his own party. In a post on his blog, Zlati says that in the National Liberal Party coalesces a movement that aims to Antonescu's removal from office. He argues, however, that a possible coup will fail. In press favorable to Traian Băsescu was launched, on September 5, the assumption of tensions in the USL. The strategy is to demobilize USL and confuse the electorate. Using the pretext of a declaration of \"dissident\" Ludovic Orban, the manipulative tentative culminated with breaking news headlines about \"USL breakage\".\n\nReactions and statements of European leaders regarding Traian Băsescu's reinstatement irritated Băsescu's detractors. PNL Vice-President Relu Fenechiu considered that in the test of Băsescu's dismissal Romanians confronted with the U.S., Germany and the European Commission.\n\nCrin Antonescu, USL Co-President, said he disagrees with Victor Ponta's position to consider well-balanced the EC attitude as against Romania, but he understands these statements as attempts to reduce Brussels' hostility. \"I'm disappointed in Barroso's lack of shade to take account of what Romanians expressed by vote. It was not a well-balanced attitude. It was an obvious and assumed political bias. Barroso congratulated himself for action from Romania, that was a political gesture against millions of Romanians\", Antonescu said in a TV show.\n\nIn a letter to the President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz, with the occasion of debates organized by the EP on the political situation in Romania, former President of Romania, Emil Constantinescu, claims that in the last two months Romania \"was subjected to unacceptable pressures for a member of EU, pressures coming from the European Commissioner for Justice, Viviane Reding and President of the European Commission José Manuel Barroso\". \"Pressures on the Romanian Parliament, the Government and Interim President, who acted within the letter and spirit of the Constitution of Romania, have no justification in any article of the European Constitution and other regulations is an abuse that creates an extremely dangerous precedent for violation of an EU Member State sovereignty. These pressures have been made based on charges unrelated to reality and are contradicted by any fair and impartial analysis of the events and documents. Now, when the process of suspension of the President and the referendum for his dismissal ended with the return in office, in the conditions imposed by EU, we can consider as a case study\", he appreciates. Emil Constantinescu also says in the letter that \"what Commissioner for Justice and European Commission President ignores is that the current mandate of the President of Romania is illegitimate\".\n\nLiberal superintendent of the Senate, Ioan Ghișe, announced, on September 13, in a press conference, that he submitted, at the Prosecutor's Office attached to the High Court of Cassation and Justice, criminal complaints against President Traian Băsescu and six of the judges of the Constitutional Court. In the complaint against Traian Băsescu, PNL Senator explains that President may be accused of usurpation of official qualities and of propaganda in favor of the totalitarian state.\n\nOn September 16, Democratic Liberal Party, Civic Force Party and Christian-Democratic National Peasants' Party signed the protocol Right Romania Alliance. The Alliance is founded on Justice and Truth alliance model and is initially composed of three co-presidents: Vasile Blaga (DLP), Mihai Răzvan Ungureanu (Civic Force) and Aurelian Pavelescu (CDNPP). Originally, in the Alliance also ranged the New Republic Party led by Mihail Neamțu, but, due to an appeal to the court, was temporarily waived its hiring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1503617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1503617", "title": "Accession (property law)", "text": "Accession (property law)\n\nAccession has different definitions depending upon its application.\n\nIn property law, it is a mode of acquiring property that involves the addition of value to property through labor or the addition of new materials. For example, a person who owns a property on a river delta also takes ownership of any additional land that builds up along the riverbank due to natural deposits or man made deposits.\n\nIn commercial law, accession includes goods that are physically united with other goods in such a manner that the identity of the original goods is not lost. In English common law, the added value belonged to the original property's owner. For example, if the buyer of a car has parts added or replaced, then the buyer fails to make scheduled payments and the car is repossessed, the buyer has no right to the new parts because they have become a part of the whole car.\n\nIn modern common law, if the property owner allows the accession through bad faith, the adder of value is entitled to damages or title to the property. If the individual who adds value to the owner's chattel (personal property) is a trespasser or does so in bad faith, the owner retains title and the trespasser cannot recover labor or materials. The owner of the chattel may seek conversion damages for the value of the original materials plus any consequential damages. Alternatively, the owner may seek replevin (return of the chattel). However, the owner may be limited to damages if the property has changed its nature by accession. For example, if a finder discovers a gemstone and in good faith believes it to be abandoned and then cuts it and integrates it into a work of art, the true owner may be limited to recovery of damages for the value of the gemstone, but not of the final art piece by way of replevin. The remedies and application of the law vary by legal jurisdiction.\n\nAccession might also be (from Latin \"accedere\", to go to, approach), in law, a method of acquiring property adopted from Roman law (see: \"accessio\"), by which, in things that have a close connection with or dependence on one another, the property of the principal draws after it the property of the accessory, according to the principle, \"accessio cedet principali\".\n\nAccession may take place either in a natural way, such as the growth of fruit or the pregnancy of animals, or in an artificial way. The various methods may be classified as:\n\nThe general principle was that everything acceded to the land, since the land was the principal.\n\nOwnership of the house was considered distinct from ownership of the materials used to make the house. Owners of the materials were permitted to vindicate the materials upon demolition of the house, but the demolition of the house was forbidden by the Twelve Tables.\n\nWhere X built on X's land using Y's materials, X owned the house since it acceded to X's land. Y would be capable of laying \"one\" of two actions if X was in good faith (bonas fides) in using Y's materials, but \"two\" actions if X was in bad faith (\"mala fides\"). These actions were (i) the \"vindicatio\" for the materials and (ii) the \"actio de tigno\", which would recoup twice the value of the materials. Additionally, Y would also have an action against a third party if that third party stole the materials.\n\nIn \"A Text-Book of Roman Law from Augustus to Justinian\", W. W. Buckland discusses a third situation where X builds on Y's land using Z's materials. In such a situation, Buckland suggests that in relation to Y, X should be treated as though an XYX situation has occurred, and in relation to Z, as though an XXZ situation has occurred.\n\nX's plants and seeds acceded irreversibly to Y's soil once they have taken root, but Y must pay expenses if X is in legal possession, since X will have the exceptio dolus malus against Y's vindicatio.\n\n\nThe accessory accedes to the principal. The debate is generally over which is the principal and which is the accessory. The principal owner owns regardless of good faith, bad faith, or consent. Possible tests that could be adopted in deciding this question include:\n\nIn Roman law, there was no consistency. Everything was decided on a casuistic basis. The Physical Identity test was the dominant test, i.e., the principal is that which gives its name to the final product and the accessory is that which has its identity merged and lost in the identity of the other. However, there are a number of special cases with special, and rather idiosyncratic rules, which are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "1637542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1637542", "title": "Advisory opinion", "text": "Advisory opinion\n\nAn advisory opinion is an opinion issued by a court or a commission like an election commission that does not have the effect of adjudicating a specific legal case, but merely advises on the constitutionality or interpretation of a law. Some countries have procedures by which the executive or legislative branches may certify important questions to the judiciary and obtain an advisory opinion. In other countries or specific jurisdictions, courts may be prohibited from issuing advisory opinions.\n\nThe International Court of Justice is empowered to give advisory opinions under Chapter IV of its Statute (an annex to the United Nations Charter) when requested to do so by certain organs or agencies of the United Nations. These opinions are non-binding, but Pieter H.F. Bekker has argued that this non-binding character does not mean that advisory opinions are without legal effect, because the legal reasoning embodied in them reflects the Court's authoritative views on important issues of international law and, in arriving at them, the Court follows essentially the same rules and procedures that govern its binding judgments delivered in contentious cases submitted to it by sovereign states. In his view, an advisory opinion derives its status and authority from the fact that it is the official pronouncement of the principal judicial organ of the United Nations.\n\nAdvisory opinions have often been controversial, either because the questions asked were controversial, or because the case was pursued as a \"backdoor\" way of bringing what is really a contentious case before the Court.\n\nThe advisory function of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights enables it to respond to consultations submitted by agencies and member states of the Organization of American States regarding the interpretation of the American Convention on Human Rights or other instruments governing human rights in the Americas. It is also empowered to give advice on domestic laws and proposed legislation, and whether or not they are compatible with the Convention's provisions.\n\nThe High Court of Australia is prohibited by the Constitution of Australia from issuing advisory opinions; a binding determination requires a controversy between two parties. During certain episodes in Australia's legal history, such as the 1975 Australian constitutional crisis, politicians have sometimes solicited informal advice from Justices of the High Court in their personal capacity.\n\nUnder Canadian law, the reference question mechanism is equivalent to an advisory opinion.\n\nThe \"Supreme Court Act\" gives the federal Cabinet the power to refer questions to the Supreme Court of Canada on any questions of law. The Supreme Court then has jurisdiction to hold a hearing on the reference, just like an appeal. The Attorney General of Canada participates in a federal reference. The provincial and territorial Attorneys General have the right to intervene, and interested parties may apply to intervene. The parties make detailed written submissions to the Court, which then holds a hearing. It typically reserves its decision, later releasing a written opinion. The Court has a discretion to refuse to answer questions which are too ambiguous or will not provide an answer with any meaning.\n\nThe Provincial governments and some of the territories have a similar power to refer questions to their highest appeal courts for an opinion. This power is set out in their respective provincial laws defining the powers of the appellate courts. The \"Supreme Court Act\" gives an automatic right of appeal from a reference decision of a provincial Court of Appeal to the Supreme Court of Canada.\n\nIn India, the President of India can request the Supreme Court of India to provide its advice on certain matters. This procedure is called \"Presidential Reference\". According to , the President of India may refer to the Supreme Court of India, a question of law or fact which, he thinks, is of public importance. However, it is \"not\" binding on the Supreme Court to answer questions raised in the reference.\n\nArticle 55 of the Constitution of Nauru provides: \"The President or a Minister may, in accordance with the approval of the Cabinet, refer to the Supreme Court for its opinion any question concerning the interpretation or effect of any provision of this Constitution which has arisen or appears to the Cabinet likely to arise, and the Supreme Court shall pronounce in open court its opinion on the question.\"\n\nThis article has been put to use on six occasions, in the following cases, in which the Cabinet sought an advisory opinion from the Supreme Court on hypothetical cases relating to an interpretation of constitutional provisions: \"Three Questions Referred under Articles 36 & 55 of the Constitution\" (1977); \"Four Questions Referred under Article 55 of the Constitution\" (1977); \"Constitutional Reference; In re Article 55 of the Constitution\" (2003); \"Constitutional Reference; In re Dual Nationality and Other Questions\" (2004); \"In the Matter of Article 55 & 45 (and Article 36 & 40) of the Constitution\" (2007); and \"In the Matter of Article 55 & 45 (and Article 36 & 40) of the Constitution\" (2008).\n\nIn \"Constitutional Reference; In re Dual Nationality and Other Questions\" (2004), Chief Justice Barry Connell made the following remarks in relation to the nature of article 55:\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has determined that the case or controversy requirement found in Article Three of the United States Constitution prohibits United States federal courts from issuing advisory opinions. Accordingly, before the court will hear a case, it must find that the parties have a tangible interest at stake in the matter, the issue presented must be \"mature for judicial resolution\" or ripe, and a justiciable issue must remain before the court throughout the course of the lawsuit. While this doctrine is still in full force, there has been a liberalization of these requirements in recent years.\n\nIn a letter to President George Washington, replying to the president's request for such an opinion, then-Chief Justice John Jay replied that it would violate the separation of powers for the Supreme Court to provide such an opinion, noting that the president could rely on advice from anyone within the executive branch under Article Two of the United States Constitution which expressly permits the President of the United States to \"require the Opinion, in writing, of the principal Officer in each of the executive Departments, upon any subject relating to the Duties of their respective Offices.\" In other words, Jay informed President Washington that the President ought to turn to the Attorney General and perhaps other Cabinet secretaries when they require legal advice concerning American law. Over a century later the Court dismissed a case because there was no \"actual controversy\" between the parties; thus, any opinion rendered would be advisory.\n\nMany state courts are similarly barred from issuing advisory opinions, although there are often specific exceptions to these limitations. Some states, like Rhode Island, permit the governor to certify questions on the constitutionality of laws to the state supreme court. Also, some states require their supreme court to give advisory opinions on particular matters, such as whether proposed amendments to the state constitution violate the U.S. Constitution. Eight states have provisions in their constitutions permitting or requiring their supreme courts to give advisory opinions to the governor or legislature (Colorado, Florida, Maine, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and South Dakota), and Alabama and Delaware provide for supreme court advisory opinions by statute. The only book-length study of state advisory opinions, which collects the texts of all advisory opinion clauses, is Mel A. Topf, \"A Doubtful and Perilous Experiment: Advisory Opinions, State Constitutions, and Judicial Supremacy\" (Oxford University Press, 2011). The book includes an annotated bibliography of all articles on the subject published since 1880.\n\nAdvisory opinions should not be confused with certified questions by one court to another, which are permissible. U.S. federal courts, when confronted with real cases or controversies in which the federal court's decision will turn in whole or in part on a question of state law (e.g. diversity cases under the \"Erie\" doctrine or issues in which federal law incorporates state law by reference, such as exemptions in bankruptcy), occasionally ask the highest court of the relevant state to give an authoritative answer to the state-law question, which the federal court will then apply to its resolution of the federal case (see e.g. \"Pullman\" abstention). Because the state court in such circumstances is giving an opinion that affects an actual case, it is not considered to be issuing an advisory opinion.\n\nThe Florida Supreme Court has two specific constitutional grants of authority to issue advisory opinions. First, it can issue an advisory opinion to the Governor of Florida on constitutional questions affecting the powers of the state's executive branch. Second, it can issue an advisory opinion to the Attorney General about two narrow legal issues affecting proposed citizens' initiatives to amend the state Constitution. These two issues are whether the ballot summary is fair and accurate and whether the initiative contains only a single subject as required by law. The Florida Supreme Court cannot include any other issue in its advisory opinion, including whether or not the initiative would be constitutional if adopted by the voters in the required statewide election.\n\n"}
{"id": "861494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861494", "title": "Al-Muhajiroun", "text": "Al-Muhajiroun\n\nAl-Muhajiroun (, \"The Emigrants\") is a banned terrorist Salafi jihadist organisation that is based in the United Kingdom and which has been linked to international terrorism, homophobia, and antisemitism. The group in its original incarnation operated in the United Kingdom from 14 January 1986 until the British Government announced an intended ban in August 2005. The group became notorious for its September 2002 conference, \"The Magnificent 19\", praising the September 11, 2001 attacks. The group mutates periodically so as to evade the law; it then operates under different aliases. It was proscribed under the UK Terrorism Act 2000 on 14 January 2010 together with four other organisations including Islam4UK, and again in 2014 as \"Need4Khilafah\".\n\nAl-Muhajiroun has also run a Lahore safe house for visiting British Muslims.\n\nAl-Muhajiroun's proclaimed aims are to establish public awareness about Islam, to influence public opinion in favour of the sharia, to convince members of society that Islam is inherently political and a viable ideological alternative, to unite Muslims on a global scale in the threats facing the Ummah and to resume the Islamic way of life by re-establishing the Islamic Caliphate. Members have carried out numerous murders and terrorist attacks.\n\nIn June 2009, the organisation officially re-launched itself in the United Kingdom, under the alias \"Islam4UK\". However it was banned under the Terrorism Act 2000 in January 2010. In January 2010, the group, operating as one of three aliases, was banned by Labour Home Secretary Alan Johnston in connection with a planned protest march through Wootton Bassett:\n\nIn June 2014, the UK government banned three more groups it suspected of being aliases for the extremist organisation al-Muhajiroun:\n\nOmar Bakri Muhammad and Anjem Choudary are known to have led Al-Muhajiroun. Bakri founded Al-Muhajiroun in Mecca, Saudi Arabia on 3 March 1983 following \"the 59th anniversary of the destruction of the Ottoman Caliphate,\" in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. According to at least one scholar (Sadek Hamid), the group was a front for Hizb ut-Tahrir in the Kingdom (where political parties are illegal). According to Bakri, the Hizb ut-Tahrir leadership did not accept the group. As such, Bakri established Al-Muhajiroun independently from Hizb ut-Tahrir.\n\nBakri claims that he studied at the universities of Umm ul-Qura' in Makkah and the Islamic University of Madinah. Bakri also studied with, and was assessed by, Dr. Abdur Rahman Dimishqia. While living in Saudi Arabia he worked for \"Eastern Electric\" owned by Shamsan and Abdul-Aziz as-Suhaybi in Riyadh, and then Bakri moved to its Jeddah branch. Later he traveled to America to study English after which he went to the UK to assume the leadership of Hizb ut-Tahrir.\n\nThe Saudi Arabian government banned Al-Muhajiroun in January 1986, prompting Bakri to leave. On 14 January 1986, he arrived in Britain, where he worked as part of Hizb ut-Tahrir. Bakri's involvement in Hizb ut-Tahrir ended on 16 January 1996 when he was dismissed by the group's global leadership. Following the emergence of Al-Muhajiroun in early 1996, Bakri would later become the chief sponsor in Britain of the International Islamic Front, an organization that trained and sent British Citizens to fight in Chechnya and the Balkans.\n\nIn March 2001 Britain's National Union of Students banned Al-Muhajiroun after they received complaints from Muslim and non-Muslim students about the group distributing hate literature and the organization training members in militant camps. Al-Muhajiroun members put up posters and handed out leaflets in Manchester University's campus where the police were called and at the University of Birmingham campus that called for the killing of Jews. A spokesman for NUS said that if Al-Muhajiroun did not support violence against Jews then they should change their \"highly militant and definitely not peaceful\" literature.\n\nAbu Hamza al-Masri created the Islamic Council of Britain to \"implement sharia law in Britain,\" on 11 September 2002, the first anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks, primarily through funding from Al-Muhajiroun. Masri celebrated the establishment of the ICB and the 9/11 attacks by holding a conference in Finsbury Park mosque in North London entitled \"September the 11th 2001: A Towering Day in History.\" Bakri, who attended the conference, said, that attendees \"look at September 11 like a battle, as a great achievement by the mujahideen against the evil superpower. I never praised September 11 after it happened but now I can see why they did it.\" Flyers distributed at the conference referred to the 9/11 hijackers as the \"Magnificent 19.\" Bakri said he saw Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda terrorists as \"sincere [and] devoted people who stood firm against the invasion of a Muslim country.\" Anjem Choudary, British spokesman for Al Muhajiroun also attended. Just days after the 7 July 2005 London bombings the Oxford-based Malaysian jurist, Shaykh Muhammad Afifi al-Akiti, issued his landmark fatwa against suicide bombing and targeting innocent civilians, titled \"Defending the Transgressed, by Censuring the Reckless against the Killing of Civilians\", which was written in response to this controversial \"Magnificent 19\" statement made by Al-Muhajiroun.\n\nAl Muhajiroun disbanded on 13 October 2004 to avoid proscription. However, it was believed that The Saviour Sect was to all intents and purposes Al Muhajiroun operating under a new name. Shortly after the 7 July 2005 London bombings Tony Blair announced the group would be banned as part of a series of measures against condoning or glorifying terrorism.\n\nHome Secretary Charles Clarke banned Omar Bakri Muhammad from the United Kingdom on 12 August 2005 on the grounds that his presence was \"not conducive to the public good.\" Two other offshoot organisations, The Saviour Sect and Al-Ghurabaa had previously been banned for the 'glorification' of terrorism under the Terrorism Act 2006.\n\nThe group was then relaunched in 2009 under the alias \"Islam4UK\". A demonstration it made against returning British soldiers in Luton gained media attention and led to the formation of the English Defence League (EDL). It was proscribed under the UK Terrorism Act 2000 on 14 January 2010 together with four other organisations including Islam4UK.\n\nIn June 2014, the UK government banned three more groups it suspected of being aliases for the extremist organisation al-Muhajiroun:\n\nAside from declaring the 9/11 hijackers \"the Magnificent 19\", controversial statements made by al-Muhajiroun include one warning the British government that it was \"sitting on a box of dynamite and have only themselves to blame if after attacking the Islamic movements and the Islamic scholars, it all blows up in their face\".\n\nIn 2004 BBC Newsnight quoted one Al-Muhajiroun leader, Abu Ibrahim, as saying,\nWhen they speak about 11 September, when the two planes magnificently run through those buildings, OK and people turn around and say, 'hang on a second, that is barbaric. Why did you have to do that?' You know why? Because of ignorance. ... For us it's retaliation. Islam is not the starter of wars. If you start the war we won't turn the other cheek. ... According to you it can't be right. According to Islam it's right. When you talk about innocent civilians, do you not kill innocent civilians in Iraq?\n\nOn 29 April 2003, Asif Hanif who attended some of Al-Muhajiroun's circles carried out a bombing of a café in Tel Aviv, Israel, that killed three people and injured 60 others.\n\nIn 2006, another individual connected with Al-Muhajiroun allegedly detonated a bomb in India, killing himself and destroying an army barracks.\n\nIn 2007, five young Muslims with Al-Muhajiroun connections – Omar Khyam, Waheed Mahmood, Anthony Garcia, Jawad Akbar and Saladhuddin Amin – were convicted of a multiple bombing plot to use fertiliser bombs \"which police say could have killed hundreds of British people. The men were caught after police and MI5 launched a massive surveillance operation.\" The surveillance culminated in a raid called Operation Crevice. The targets included \"the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent, the Ministry of Sound nightclub in London and Britain's domestic gas network.\" According to Professor Anthony Glees, director of the Brunel Centre for Intelligence and Security Studies:\nThe fertiliser bomb trial has given us the smoking-gun evidence that groups like al-Muhajiroun have had an important part in radicalising young British Muslims, and that this can create terrorists.\n\nOn 22 May 2013, the murder of Lee Rigby was carried out by two members of Al-Muhajiroun, Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale. From about 2003, Adebolajo was corrupted by Bakri and then by Choudary, after Bakri left the country in August 2005. One former associate said Adebolajo that “locked himself in this room with this bloke for a few hours and when he came out he was a Muslim convert. He was spouting all kinds of stuff and said he had changed his name.\" Adebolajo insisted to be called during the Rigby trial \"Mujahid\".\n\nAt least one of the perpetrators of the June 2017 London attack, Khuram Butt, was a member.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9953543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9953543", "title": "Alexander Campbell King Law Library", "text": "Alexander Campbell King Law Library\n\nThe Alexander Campbell King Law Library is the main law library of the University of Georgia School of Law. It is located in Hirsch Hall, one of two law school buildings on the nationally recognized historic North Quadrangle of the University of Georgia campus in Athens, Georgia. It also features the Louis B. Sohn Library on International Relations, located inside the Dean Rusk International Law Center, in the law school's Dean Rusk Hall. It is named after the famous Georgia jurist Alexander Campbell King, who would become a founding partner of the international law firm King & Spalding LLP, a firm with which the University of Georgia has close ties.\n\nThe library holds more than a half million digital and print titles and is a leader in the provision of information in electronic formats. Its collection is particularly strong in historical legal materials and comparative and international law. The library has won a number of awards and accolades over the years. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "28032324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28032324", "title": "Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986", "text": "Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986\n\nThe Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986 was a law of the War on Drugs passed by the U.S. Congress. Among other things, they changed the system of federal supervised release from a rehabilitative system into a punitive system. The 1986 Act also prohibited controlled substance analogs. The bill enacted new mandatory minimum sentences for drugs, including marijuana.\n\nThe appearance of crack cocaine, the June 19, 1986 death of Len Bias (University of Maryland basketball star), the morning after he signed with the NBA champion Boston Celtics, and the June 27, 1986 death of Don Rogers (safety) (Cleveland Browns, 1985 Defensive Rookie of the Year) -- both from cocaine use, encouraged U.S. Rep. Thomas P. (Tip) O'Neill, Jr. (D-MA), the Speaker of the House of Representatives, to mobilize the House Democratic leadership to assemble an omnibus anti-drug bill that became the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986. The congressional interest and intense news coverage created a moral panic surrounding cocaine use, which had earlier been viewed in a more benign or even positive way. that made enacting this legislation so important. In September and October of 1986, the House (with a Democratic majority) and the Senate (with a Republican majority) competed over which could propose the most severe laws in advance of the pivotal midterm election.\n\nA few House Democrats expressed considerable concern about the provisions of the bill. However, most ultimately voted for it, describing election pressures and fear of criticism as swaying their decision. Representative Mike Lowry (D), who voted against the bill, described the process as \"legislation by political panic\". Representative Charles Schumer (D), who voted in favor of the bill, said \"the policies are aimed at looking good rather than solving the problem.\" The House passed the Senate version with a 378–16 majority on October 17, 1986.\n\nThe Money Laundering Control Act of 1986 was enacted as Title I of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act. This title criminalized money laundering for the first time in the United States. It also amended the Bank Secrecy Act, the Change in Bank Control Act, and the Right to Financial Privacy Act\n\nAlong with the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984, the act substantially increased the number of drug offenses with mandatory minimum sentences.\n\nThis act mandated a minimum sentence of 5 years without parole for possession of 5 grams of crack cocaine while it mandated the same for possession of 500 grams of powder cocaine. This 100:1 disparity was reduced to 18:1, when crack was increased to 28 grams (1 ounce) by the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010.\n\nThe act authorized billions of dollars of spending, although substantially less was actually appropriated. Some of this was used to increase the substance abuse treatment federal block grant program, although treatment providers were disappointed at the reduced appropriations following politicians' earlier promises and authorization.\n\nOther programs funded by the act included drug counseling and education programs, AIDS research, and international cooperation to limit drug production.\n\nThe Act also included the \"Drug Free Schools and Communities Act\", which required colleges to establish drug abuse education and prevention programs.\n\nThe law led to an increase in average time imprisoned for drug crimes from 22 months to 33 months.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=640", "title": "Appellate procedure in the United States", "text": "Appellate procedure in the United States\n\nUnited States appellate procedure involves the rules and regulations for filing appeals in state courts and federal courts. The nature of an appeal can vary greatly depending on the type of case and the rules of the court in the jurisdiction where the case was prosecuted. There are many types of standard of review for appeals, such as \"de novo\" and abuse of discretion. However, most appeals begin when a party files a petition for review to a higher court for the purpose of overturning the lower court's decision.\n\nAn appellate court is a court that hears cases on appeal from another court. Depending on the particular legal rules that apply to each circumstance, a party to a court case who is unhappy with the result might be able to challenge that result in an appellate court on specific grounds. These grounds typically could include errors of law, fact, procedure or due process. In different jurisdictions, appellate courts are also called appeals courts, courts of appeals, superior courts, or supreme courts.\n\nThe specific procedures for appealing, including even whether there is a right of appeal from a particular type of decision, can vary greatly from state to state. The right to file an appeal can also vary from state to state; for example, the New Jersey Constitution vests judicial power in a Supreme Court, a Superior Court, and other courts of limited jurisdiction, with an appellate court being part of the Superior Court.\n\nA party who files an appeal is called an \"appellant\", \"plaintiff in error\", \"petitioner\" or \"pursuer\", and a party on the other side is called a \"appellee\". A \"cross-appeal\" is an appeal brought by the respondent. For example, suppose at trial the judge found for the plaintiff and ordered the defendant to pay $50,000. If the defendant files an appeal arguing that he should not have to pay any money, then the plaintiff might file a cross-appeal arguing that the defendant should have to pay $200,000 instead of $50,000.\n\nThe appellant is the party who, having lost part or all their claim in a lower court decision, is appealing to a higher court to have their case reconsidered. This is usually done on the basis that the lower court judge erred in the application of law, but it may also be possible to appeal on the basis of court misconduct, or that a finding of fact was entirely unreasonable to make on the evidence.\n\nThe appellant in the new case can be either the plaintiff (or claimant), defendant, third-party intervenor, or respondent (appellee) from the lower case, depending on who was the losing party. The winning party from the lower court, however, is now the respondent. In unusual cases the appellant can be the victor in the court below, but still appeal.\n\nAn appellee is the party to an appeal in which the lower court judgment was in its favor. The appellee is required to respond to the petition, oral arguments, and legal briefs of the appellant. In general, the appellee takes the procedural posture that the lower court's decision should be affirmed.\n\nAn appeal \"as of right\" is one that is guaranteed by statute or some underlying constitutional or legal principle. The appellate court cannot refuse to listen to the appeal. An appeal \"by leave\" or \"permission\" requires the appellant to obtain leave to appeal; in such a situation either or both of the lower court and the court may have the discretion to grant or refuse the appellant's demand to appeal the lower court's decision. In the Supreme Court, review in most cases is available only if the Court exercises its discretion and grants a writ of certiorari.\n\nIn tort, equity, or other civil matters either party to a previous case may file an appeal. In criminal matters, however, the state or prosecution generally has no appeal \"as of right\". And due to the double jeopardy principle, the state or prosecution may never appeal a jury or bench verdict of acquittal. But in some jurisdictions, the state or prosecution may appeal \"as of right\" from a trial court's dismissal of an indictment in whole or in part or from a trial court's granting of a defendant's suppression motion. Likewise, in some jurisdictions, the state or prosecution may appeal an issue of law \"by leave\" from the trial court or the appellate court. The ability of the prosecution to appeal a decision in favor of a defendant varies significantly internationally. All parties must present grounds to appeal, or it will not be heard.\n\nBy convention in some law reports, the appellant is named first. This can mean that where it is the defendant who appeals, the name of the case in the law reports reverses (in some cases twice) as the appeals work their way up the court hierarchy. This is not always true, however. In the federal courts, the parties' names always stay in the same order as the lower court when an appeal is taken to the circuit courts of appeals, and are re-ordered only if the appeal reaches the Supreme Court.\n\nMany jurisdictions recognize two types of appeals, particularly in the criminal context. The first is the traditional \"direct\" appeal in which the appellant files an appeal with the next higher court of review. The second is the collateral appeal or post-conviction petition, in which the petitioner-appellant files the appeal in a court of first instance—usually the court that tried the case.\n\nThe key distinguishing factor between direct and collateral appeals is that the former occurs in state courts, and the latter in federal courts.\n\nRelief in post-conviction is rare and is most often found in capital or violent felony cases. The typical scenario involves an incarcerated defendant locating DNA evidence demonstrating the defendant's actual innocence.\n\n\"Appellate review\" is the general term for the process by which courts with appellate jurisdiction take jurisdiction of matters decided by lower courts. It is distinguished from judicial review, which refers to the court's overriding constitutional or statutory right to determine if a legislative act or administrative decision is defective for jurisdictional or other reasons (which may vary by jurisdiction).\n\nIn most jurisdictions the normal and preferred way of seeking appellate review is by filing an appeal of the final judgment. Generally, an appeal of the judgment will also allow appeal of all other orders or rulings made by the trial court in the course of the case. This is because such orders cannot be appealed \"as of right\". However, certain critical interlocutory court orders, such as the denial of a request for an interim injunction, or an order holding a person in contempt of court, can be appealed immediately although the case may otherwise not have been fully disposed of.\n\nThere are two distinct forms of appellate review, \"direct\" and \"collateral\". For example, a criminal defendant may be convicted in state court, and lose on \"direct appeal\" to higher state appellate courts, and if unsuccessful, mount a \"collateral\" action such as filing for a writ of habeas corpus in the federal courts. Generally speaking, \"[d]irect appeal statutes afford defendants the opportunity to challenge the merits of a judgment and allege errors of law or fact. ... [Collateral review], on the other hand, provide[s] an independent and civil inquiry into the validity of a conviction and sentence, and as such are generally limited to challenges to constitutional, jurisdictional, or other fundamental violations that occurred at trial.\" \"Graham v. Borgen\", 483 F 3d. 475 (7th Cir. 2007) (no. 04-4103) (slip op. at 7) (citation omitted).\n\nIn Anglo-American common law courts, appellate review of lower court decisions may also be obtained by filing a petition for review by prerogative writ in certain cases. There is no corresponding right to a writ in any pure or continental civil law legal systems, though some mixed systems such as Quebec recognize these prerogative writs.\n\nAfter exhausting the first appeal as of right, defendants usually petition the highest state court to review the decision. This appeal is known as a direct appeal. The highest state court, generally known as the Supreme Court, exercises discretion over whether it will review the case. On direct appeal, a prisoner challenges the grounds of the conviction based on an error that occurred at trial or some other stage in the adjudicative process.\n\nAn appellant's claim(s) must usually be preserved at trial. This means that the defendant had to object to the error when it occurred in the trial. Because constitutional claims are of great magnitude, appellate courts might be more lenient to review the claim even if it was not preserved. For example, Connecticut applies the following standard to review unpreserved claims: 1.the record is adequate to review the alleged claim of error; 2. the claim is of constitutional magnitude alleging the violation of a fundamental right; 3. the alleged constitutional violation clearly exists and clearly deprived the defendant of a fair trial; 4. if subject to harmless error analysis, the state has failed to demonstrate harmlessness of the alleged constitutional violation beyond a reasonable doubt.\n\nAll States have a post-conviction relief process. Similar to federal post-conviction relief, an appellant can petition the court to correct alleged fundamental errors that were not corrected on direct review. Typical claims might include ineffective assistance of counsel and actual innocence based on new evidence. These proceedings are normally separate from the direct appeal, however some states allow for collateral relief to be sought on direct appeal. After direct appeal, the conviction is considered final. An appeal from the post conviction court proceeds just as a direct appeal. That is, it goes to the intermediate appellate court, followed by the highest court. If the petition is granted the appellant could be released from incarceration, the sentence could be modified, or a new trial could be ordered.\n\nA \"notice of appeal\" is a form or document that in many cases is required to begin an appeal. The form is completed by the appellant or by the appellant's legal representative. The nature of this form can vary greatly from country to country and from court to court within a country.\n\nThe specific rules of the legal system will dictate exactly how the appeal is officially begun. For example, the appellant might have to file the notice of appeal with the appellate court, or with the court from which the appeal is taken, or both.\n\nSome courts have samples of a notice of appeal on the court's own web site. In New Jersey, for example, the Administrative Office of the Court has promulgated a form of notice of appeal for use by appellants, though using this exact form is not mandatory and the failure to use it is not a jurisdictional defect provided that all pertinent information is set forth in whatever form of notice of appeal is used.\n\nThe deadline for beginning an appeal can often be very short: traditionally, it is measured in days, not months. This can vary from country to country, as well as within a country, depending on the specific rules in force. In the U.S. federal court system, criminal defendants must file a notice of appeal within 10 days of the entry of either the judgment or the order being appealed, or the right to appeal is forfeited.\n\nGenerally speaking the appellate court examines the record of evidence presented in the trial court and the law that the lower court applied and decides whether that decision was legally sound or not. The appellate court will typically be deferential to the lower court's findings of fact (such as whether a defendant committed a particular act), unless clearly erroneous, and so will focus on the court's application of the law to those facts (such as whether the act found by the court to have occurred fits a legal definition at issue).\n\nIf the appellate court finds no defect, it \"affirms\" the judgment. If the appellate court does find a legal defect in the decision \"below\" (i.e., in the lower court), it may \"modify\" the ruling to correct the defect, or it may nullify (\"reverse\" or \"vacate\") the whole decision or any part of it. It may, in addition, send the case back (\"remand\" or \"remit\") to the lower court for further proceedings to remedy the defect.\n\nIn some cases, an appellate court may review a lower court decision \"de novo\" (or completely), challenging even the lower court's findings of fact. This might be the proper standard of review, for example, if the lower court resolved the case by granting a pre-trial motion to dismiss or motion for summary judgment which is usually based only upon written submissions to the trial court and not on any trial testimony.\n\nAnother situation is where appeal is by way of \"re-hearing\". Certain jurisdictions permit certain appeals to cause the trial to be heard afresh in the appellate court.\n\nSometimes, the appellate court finds a defect in the procedure the parties used in filing the appeal and dismisses the appeal without considering its merits, which has the same effect as affirming the judgment below. (This would happen, for example, if the appellant waited too long, under the appellate court's rules, to file the appeal.)\n\nGenerally, there is no trial in an appellate court, only consideration of the record of the evidence presented to the trial court and all the pre-trial and trial court proceedings are reviewed—unless the appeal is by way of re-hearing, new evidence will usually only be considered on appeal in \"very\" rare instances, for example if that material evidence was unavailable to a party for some very significant reason such as prosecutorial misconduct.\n\nIn some systems, an appellate court will only consider the written decision of the lower court, together with any written evidence that was before that court and is relevant to the appeal. In other systems, the appellate court will normally consider the record of the lower court. In those cases the record will first be certified by the lower court.\n\nThe appellant has the opportunity to present arguments for the granting of the appeal and the appellee (or respondent) can present arguments against it. Arguments of the parties to the appeal are presented through their appellate lawyers, if represented, or \"pro se\" if the party has not engaged legal representation. Those arguments are presented in written briefs and sometimes in oral argument to the court at a hearing. At such hearings each party is allowed a brief presentation at which the appellate judges ask questions based on their review of the record below and the submitted briefs.\n\nIn an adversarial system, appellate courts do not have the power to review lower court decisions unless a party appeals it. Therefore, if a lower court has ruled in an improper manner, or against legal precedent, that judgment will stand if not appealed – even if it might have been overturned on appeal.\n\nThe United States legal system generally recognizes two types of appeals: a trial \"de novo\" or an appeal on the record.\n\nA trial de novo is usually available for review of informal proceedings conducted by some minor judicial tribunals in proceedings that do not provide all the procedural attributes of a formal judicial trial. If unchallenged, these decisions have the power to settle more minor legal disputes once and for all. If a party is dissatisfied with the finding of such a tribunal, one generally has the power to request a trial \"de novo\" by a court of record. In such a proceeding, all issues and evidence may be developed newly, as though never heard before, and one is not restricted to the evidence heard in the lower proceeding. Sometimes, however, the decision of the lower proceeding is itself admissible as evidence, thus helping to curb frivolous appeals.\n\nIn some cases, an application for \"trial de novo\" effectively erases the prior trial as if it had never taken place. The Supreme Court of Virginia has stated that '\"This Court has repeatedly held that the effect of an appeal to circuit court is to \"annul the judgment of the inferior tribunal as completely as if there had been no previous trial.\"' The only exception to this is that if a defendant appeals a conviction for a crime having multiple levels of offenses, where they are convicted on a lesser offense, the appeal is of the lesser offense; the conviction represents an acquittal of the more serious offenses. \"[A] trial on the same charges in the circuit court does not violate double jeopardy principles, . . . subject only to the limitation that conviction in [the] district court for an offense lesser included in the one charged constitutes an acquittal of the greater offense,\npermitting trial de novo in the circuit court only for the lesser-included offense.\"\n\nIn an appeal on the record from a decision in a judicial proceeding, both appellant and respondent are bound to base their arguments wholly on the proceedings and body of evidence as they were presented in the lower tribunal. Each seeks to prove to the higher court that the result they desired was the just result. Precedent and case law figure prominently in the arguments. In order for the appeal to succeed, the appellant must prove that the lower court committed reversible error, that is, an impermissible action by the court acted to cause a result that was unjust, and which would not have resulted had the court acted properly. Some examples of reversible error would be erroneously instructing the jury on the law applicable to the case, permitting seriously improper argument by an attorney, admitting or excluding evidence improperly, acting outside the court's jurisdiction, injecting bias into the proceeding or appearing to do so, juror misconduct, etc. The failure to formally object at the time, to what one views as improper action in the lower court, may result in the affirmance of the lower court's judgment on the grounds that one did not \"preserve the issue for appeal\" by objecting.\n\nIn cases where a judge rather than a jury decided issues of fact, an appellate court will apply an \"abuse of discretion\" standard of review. Under this standard, the appellate court gives deference to the lower court's view of the evidence, and reverses its decision only if it were a clear abuse of discretion. This is usually defined as a decision outside the bounds of reasonableness. On the other hand, the appellate court normally gives less deference to a lower court's decision on issues of law, and may reverse if it finds that the lower court applied the wrong legal standard.\n\nIn some cases, an appellant may successfully argue that the law under which the lower decision was rendered was unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, or may convince the higher court to order a new trial on the basis that evidence earlier sought was concealed or only recently discovered. In the case of new evidence, there must be a high probability that its presence or absence would have made a material difference in the trial. Another issue suitable for appeal in criminal cases is effective assistance of counsel. If a defendant has been convicted and can prove that his lawyer did not adequately handle his case and that there is a reasonable probability that the result of the trial would have been different had the lawyer given competent representation, he is entitled to a new trial.\n\nA lawyer traditionally starts an oral argument to any appellate court with the words \"May it please the court.\"\n\nAfter an appeal is heard, the \"mandate\" is a formal notice of a decision by a court of appeal; this notice is transmitted to the trial court and, when filed by the clerk of the trial court, constitutes the final judgment on the case, unless the appeal court has directed further proceedings in the trial court. The mandate is distinguished from the appeal court's opinion, which sets out the legal reasoning for its decision. In some jurisdictions the mandate is known as the \"remittitur\".\n\nThe result of an appeal can be:\n\nThere can be multiple outcomes, so that the reviewing court can affirm some rulings, reverse others and remand the case all at the same time. Remand is not required where there is nothing left to do in the case. \"Generally speaking, an appellate court's judgment provides 'the final directive of the appeals courts as to the matter appealed, setting out with specificity the court's determination that the action appealed from should be affirmed, reversed, remanded or modified'\".\n\nSome reviewing courts who have discretionary review may send a case back without comment other than \"review improvidently granted\". In other words, after looking at the case, they chose not to say anything. The result for the case of \"review improvidently granted\" is effectively the same as affirmed, but without that extra higher court stamp of approval.\n\n"}
{"id": "22035405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22035405", "title": "Armistice of Erzincan", "text": "Armistice of Erzincan\n\nThe Armistice of Erzincan (also spelled Erzindzhan or Erzinjan) was an agreement to suspend hostilities during World War I signed by the Ottoman Empire and Transcaucasian Commissariat in Erzincan on 18 December 1917 (5 December O.S.). The armistice brought temporary peace to the Caucasian and Persian Fronts until 12 February, when the fighting was resumed.\n\nThe status of the Transcaucasian Commissariat was unclear at the time: the Ottomans regarded it as an independent entity, a legal successor of the Russian Empire, while the Commissariat still considered itself a part of the Russian Republic. The Ottoman Empire was already party to the Brest-Litovsk armistice with Russia (15 December) that covered the Caucasian and Persian Fronts. After receiving a ceasefire proposal from Vehib Pasha, commander of the Ottoman Third Army, the Commissariat authorised the commander of the Russian Caucasus Front, General Przhevalski, to negotiate an armistice with his Ottoman opposite. The result was the Erzincan Armistice, after which the Russian troops began to withdraw, leaving the Transcaucasian Commissariat completely undefended.\n\nA supplement to the armistice was signed on the same day, demarcating the line of occupation between the two sides. On 12 February, Ottoman forces began advancing across the line in defiance of the armistice, having rejected the Transcaucasian Commissariat's authority to sign it and accused the Armenians of massacring Muslims behind the Ottoman line on 15–16 January. On 24 February the Brest-Litovsk armistice was broken by Germany and became of no effect. Both armistices were superseded by the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk with Russia, signed on 3 March 1918, and the Treaty of Batum with the successor states of the Transcaucasian Commissariat, signed 4 June.\n"}
{"id": "14080755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14080755", "title": "Arms Act 1983", "text": "Arms Act 1983\n\nThe Arms Act 1983 is the primary statute controlling the possession and use of firearms and air guns in New Zealand.\n\nThe basic premise of the New Zealand arms control regime is the licensing of individuals as being fit and proper persons to possess firearms. Firearms themselves are not generally registered or licensed, although exceptions exist for pistols, restricted weapons and military-style semi-automatic firearms (MSSAs).\n\nThe act came into force on 1 June 1984, replacing the Arms Act 1958 (1958 No 21).\n\nIt has subsequently been amended by the following statutes:\n\nThe Act is administered by the New Zealand Police. The full legislative framework of the arms control regime is defined by the Act in conjunction with:\n\nThe act grants the police considerable discretion in the administration of the arms control regime. Police policy in respect of the arms regime is documented in their \"Arms Manual\" 2002.\n\nThe act contains provisions for the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "74107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74107", "title": "Citation signal", "text": "Citation signal\n\nIn law, a citation or introductory signal is a set of phrases or words used to clarify the authority (or significance) of a legal citation as it relates to a proposition. It is used in citations to present authorities and indicate how those authorities relate to propositions in statements. Legal writers use citation signals to tell readers how the citations support (or do not support) their propositions, organizing citations in a hierarchy of importance so the reader can quickly determine the relative weight of a citation. Citation signals help a reader to discern meaning or usefulness of a reference when the reference itself provides inadequate information.\n\nCitation signals have different meanings in different U.S. citation-style systems. The two most prominent citation manuals are \"The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation\" and the \"ALWD Citation Manual\". Some state-specific style manuals also provide guidance on legal citation. The \"Bluebook\" citation system is the most comprehensive and the most widely used system by courts, law firms and law reviews.\n\nMost citation signals are placed in front of the citation to which they apply. In the paragraph\nWhen writing a legal argument, it is important to refer to primary sources. To assist readers in locating these sources, it is desirable to use a standardized citation format. See generally Harvard Law Review Association, \"The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation\" (18th ed. 2005). Note, however, that some courts may require any legal papers that are submitted to them to conform to a different citation format.\nthe signal is \"see generally\", which indicates that \"The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation\" (18th ed. 2005) provides background information on the topic.\n\nWhen writers do not signal a citation, the cited authority states the proposition, is the source of the cited quotation or identifies an authority referred to in the text; for example,\na court points out that \"the proper role of the trial and appellate courts in the federal system in reviewing the size of jury verdicts is a matter of federal law\" or \"Bilida was prosecuted in state court for the misdemeanor offense of possessing the raccoon without a permit\".\n\nThis signal, an abbreviation of the Latin \"exempli gratia\", means \"for example\". It tells the reader that the citation supports the proposition; although other authorities also support the proposition, their citation(s) may not be useful or necessary. This signal may be used in combination with other signals, preceded by an italicized comma. The comma after \"e.g.\", is not italicized when attached to another signal at the end (whether supportive or not), but is italicized when \"e.g.\" appears alone. Examples: Parties challenging state abortion laws have sharply disputed in some courts the contention that a purpose of these laws, when enacted, was to protect prenatal life. \"See, e.g.\", \"Abele v. Markle\", 342 F. Supp. 800 (D. Conn.1972), appeal docketed, No. 72-56. Unfortunately, hiring undocumented laborers is a widespread industry practice. \"E.g.\", \"Transamerica Ins. Co. v. Bellefonte Ins. Co.\", 548 F. Supp. 1329, 1331 (E.D. Pa. 1982).\n\n\"Accord\" is used when two or more sources state or support the proposition, but the text quotes (or refers to) only one; the other sources are then introduced by \"accord\". Legal writers often use \"accord\" to indicate that the law of one jurisdiction is in accord with that of another jurisdiction. Examples: \"[N]ervousness alone does not justify extended detention and questioning about matters not related to the stop.\" \"United States v. Chavez-Valenzuela\", 268 F.3d 719,725 (9th Cir. 2001); \"accord United States v. Beck\", 140 F.3d 1129, 1139 (8th Cir. 1998); \"United States v. Wood\", 106 F.3d 942, 248 (10th Cir. 1997); \"United States v. Tapia\", 912 F.2d 1367, 1370 (11th Cir. 1990). \"... The term 'Fifth Amendment' in the context of our time is commonly regarded as being synonymous with the privilege against self-incrimination\". \"Quinn v. United States\", 349 U.S. 155, 163, 75 S. Ct. 668, 99 L. Ed. 964 (1955); \"accord In re Johnny V.\", 85 Cal. App. 3d 120, 149 Cal.Rptr. 180, 184, 188 (Cal. Ct. App. 1978) (holding that the statement \"I'll take the fifth\" was an assertion of the Fifth Amendment privilege).\n\n\"See\" indicates that the cited authority supports, but does not directly state, the proposition given. Used similarly to no signal, to indicate that the proposition follows from the cited authority. It may also be used to refer to a cited authority which supports the proposition. For example, before 1997 the IDEA was silent on the subject of private school reimbursement, but courts had granted such reimbursement as \"appropriate\" relief under principles of equity pursuant to 20 U.S.C. § 1415(i)(2)(C ). \"See Burlington\", 471 U.S. at 370, 105 S.Ct. 1996 (\"[W]e are confident that by empowering the court to grant 'appropriate' relief Congress meant to include retroactive reimbursement to parents as an available remedy in a proper case.\"); 20 U.S.C. § 1415(i)(2)(C ) (\"In any action brought under this paragraph, the court ... shall grant such relief as the court determines is appropriate.\").\n\nThis indicates that the cited authority constitutes additional material which supports the proposition less directly than that indicated by \"see\" or \"accord\". \"See also\" may be used to introduce a case supporting the stated proposition which is distinguishable from previously-cited cases. It is sometimes used to refer readers to authorities supporting a proposition when other supporting authorities have already been cited or discussed. A parenthetical explanation of the source's relevance, after a citation introduced by \"see also\", is encouraged. For example, \" ... Omitting the same mental element in a similar weapons possession statute, such as RCW 9.41.040, strongly indicates that the omission was purposeful and that strict liability was intended. \"See generally\" \"State v. Alvarez\", 74 Wash. App. 250, 260, 872 P.2d 1123 (1994) (omission of \"course of conduct\" language in criminal counterpart to civil antiharassment act indicated \"Legislature consciously chose to criminalize a single act rather than a course of conduct.\") aff'd, 128 Wash.2d 1, 904 P.2d 754 (1995); \"see also\" \"State v. Roberts\", 117 Wash.2d 576, 586, 817 P.2d 855 (1991) (use of certain statutory language in one instance, and different language in another, evinces different legislative intent) (citing cases).\" Source: \"State v. Anderson\", 141 Wash.2d 357, 5 P.3d 1247, 1253 (2000).\n\nFrom the Latin \"confer\" (\"compare\"), this signals that a cited proposition differs from the main proposition but is sufficiently analogous to lend support. An explanatory parenthetical note is recommended to clarify the citation's relevance. For example, it is precisely this kind of conjecture and hair-splitting that the Supreme Court wanted to avoid when it fashioned the bright-line rule in Miranda. \"Cf\". \"Davis\", 512 U.S. at 461 (noting that where the suspect asks for counsel, the benefit of the bright-line rule is the \"clarity and ease of application\" that \"can be applied by officers in the real world without unduly hampering the gathering of information\" by forcing them \"to make difficult judgment calls\" with a \"threat of suppression if they guess wrong\").\n\nThis signal indicates that the cited authority presents background material relevant to the proposition. Legal scholars generally encourage the use of parenthetical explanations of the source material's relevance following each authority using \"see generally\", and this signal can be used with primary and secondary sources. For example, it is a form of \"discrimination\" because the complainant is being subjected to differential treatment. \"See generally Olmstead v. L. C\"., 527 U.S. 581, 614, 144 L. Ed. 2d 540, 119 S. Ct. 2176 (1999) (Kennedy, J., concurring in judgment) (the \"normal definition of discrimination\" is \"differential treatment\").\n\nThis signals that the cited authority directly contradicts a given point. \"Contra\" is used where no signal would be used for support. For example: \"Before \"Blakely\", courts around the country had found that 'statutory minimum' was the maximum sentence allowed by law for the crime, rather than the maximum \"standard\" range sentence. \"See, e.g.,\" \"State v. Gore\", 143 Wash. 2d 288, 313-14, 21 P.3d 262 (2001), \"overruled by State v. Hughes\", 154 Wash. 2d 118, 110 P.3d 192 (2005). \"Contra Blakely\", 124 S. Ct. at 2536-37.\"\n\nThe cited authority contradicts the stated proposition, directly or implicitly. \"But see\" is used in opposition where \"see\" is used for support. For example: \"Specifically, under \"Roberts\", there may have been cases in which courts erroneously determined that testimonial statements were reliable. \"But see Bockting v. Bayer\", 418 F.3d at 1058 (O'Scannlain, J., dissenting from denial of rehearing en banc).\"\n\nThe cited authority contradicts the stated proposition by analogy; a parenthetical explanation of the source's relevance is recommended. For example: \"But cf.\" 995 F.2d, at 1137 (observing that “[i]n the ordinary tort claim arising when a government driver negligently runs into another car, jury trial is precisely what is lost to a plaintiff when the government is substituted for the employee”).\n\n\"But\" should be omitted from \"but see\" and \"but cf.\" when the signal follows another negative signal: \"Contra\" \"Blake v. Kiline\", 612 F.2d 718, 723-24 (3d Cir. 1979); \"see\" CHARLES ALAN WRIGHT, LAW OF FEDERAL COURTS 48 (4th ed. 1983).\n\nThis signal compares two or more authorities who reach different outcomes for a stated proposition. Because the relevance of the comparison may not be readily apparent to the reader, \"The Bluebook\" recommends adding a parenthetical explanation after each authority. Either \"compare\" or \"with\" may be followed by more than one source, using \"and\" between each. Legal writers italicize \"compare\", \"with\" and \"and\". \"Compare\" is used with \"with\", with the \"with\" preceded by a comma. If \"and\" is used, it is also be preceded by a comma. For example: To characterize the first element as a \"distortion\", however, requires the concurrence to second-guess the way in which the state court resolved a plain conflict in the language of different statutes. \"Compare\" Fla. Stat. 102.166 (2001) (foreseeing manual recounts during the protest period), \"with\" 102.111 (setting what is arguably too short a deadline for manual recounts to be conducted); compare 102.112(1) (stating that the Secretary \"may\" ignore late returns), \"with\" 102.111(1) (stating that the Secretary \"shall\" ignore late returns).\n\nIn footnotes, signals may function as verbs in sentences; this allows material which would otherwise be included in a parenthetical explanation to be integrated. When used in this manner, signals should not be italicized. \"See\" Christina L. Anderson, Comment, \"Double Jeopardy: The Modern Dilemma for Juvenile Justice\", 152 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1181, 1204-07 (2004) (discussing four main types of restorative justice programs) becomes: See Christina L. Anderson, Comment, \"Double Jeopardy: The Modern Dilemma for Juvenile Justice\", 152 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1181, 1204-07 (2004), for a discussion of restorative justice as a reasonable replacement for retributive sanctions. \"Cf.\" becomes \"compare\" and \"e.g.\" becomes \"for example\" when the signals are used as verbs.\n\nThe first letter of a signal should be capitalized when it begins a citation sentence. If it is in a citation clause or sentence, it should not be capitalized.\n\nOne space should separate an introductory signal from the rest of the citation, with no punctuation between. For example, \"See\" \"American Trucking Associations v. United States EPA\", 195 F.3d 4 (D.C. Cir. 1999).\n\nDo not italicize a signal used as a verb; for example, for a discussion of the Environmental Protection Agency's failure to interpret a statute to provide intelligible principles, see \"American Trucking Associations v. United States EPA,\" 195 F.3d 4 (D.C. Cir. 1999).\n\nWhen one or more signals are used, the signals should appear in the following order:\n\nWhen multiple signals are used, they must be consistent with this order. Signals of the same basic type - supportive, comparative, contradictory or background - are strung together in a single citation sentence, separated by semicolons. Signals of different types should be grouped in different citation sentences. For example:\n\n\"\"See\" \"Mass. Bd. of Ret. v. Murgia\", 427 U.S. 307 (1976) (\"per curiam\"); \"cf.\" Palmer v. Ticcione, 433 F.Supp. 653 (E.D.N.Y 1977) (upholding a mandatory retirement age for kindergarten teachers). \"But see\" Gault v. Garrison, 569 F.2d 993 (7th Cir. 1977) (holding that a classification of public school teachers based on age violated equal protection absent a showing of justifiable and rational state purpose). \"See generally\" Comment, \"O’Neill v. Baine\": \"Application of Middle-Level Scrutiny to Old-Age Classifications\", 127 U. Pa. L. Rev. 798 (1979) (advocating a new constitutional approach to old-age classifications).\"\n\nWhen \"e.g.\" is combined with another signal, the placement of the combined signal is determined by the non-\"e.g.\" signal; the combined signal \"\"see, e.g.\" should be placed where the \"see\"\" signal would normally be. In a citation clause, citation strings may contain different types of signals; these signals are separated by semicolons.\n\nAuthorities in a signal are separated by semicolons. If an authority is more helpful or authoritative than others cited in a signal, it should precede them. Otherwise, authorities are cited in the following order:\n\nParentheticals, as needed, explain the relevance of an authority to the proposition in the text. Parenthetical information is recommended when the relevance of a cited authority might not otherwise be clear to the reader. Explanatory information takes the form of a present-participle phrase, a quoted sentence or a short statement appropriate in context. Unlike the other signals, it immediately follows the full citation. Usually brief (about one sentence), it quickly explains how the citation supports or disagrees with the proposition. For example: \"Brown v. Board of Education\", 347 U.S. 483 (1954) (overruling \"Plessy v. Ferguson\", 163 U.S. 537 (1896)).\n\nExplanatory parenthetical phrases not directly quoting the authority usually begin with a present participle and should not begin with a capital letter: \"See generally\" John Copeland Nagle & J.B. Ruhl, \"The Law of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Management\" 227-45 (2002) (detailing the ESA's prohibition on the possession of protected species). When a complete participial phrase is unnecessary in context, a shorter parenthetical may be substituted:\nSuch standards have been adopted to address a variety of environmental problems. \"See, e.g.\", H.B. Jacobini, \"The New International Sanitary Regulations\", 46 Am. J. INT'L L. 727, 727-28(1952) (health-related water quality); Robert L. Meyer, Travaux Preparatoires \"for the UNESCO World Heritage Convention\", 2 EARTH L.J. 45, 45-81 (1976)(conservation of protected areas).\n\nIf the parenthetical quotes one or more full sentences, it begins with a capital letter and end with punctuation: \"See\" Committee Note to Interim Rule 8001(f) (\"Given the short time limit to file the petition with the circuit clerk, subdivision (f)(1) provides that entry of a certification on the docket does not occur until an effective appeal is taken under Rule 8003(a) or (b).\"). Insert a space before the opening parenthesis of the explanatory parenthetical. If the parenthetical does not contain a complete sentence, the writer should not place final punctuation (such as a period) inside it.\n\nPlace a parenthetical included as part of a citation before an explanatory parenthetical:\nFed. R. Civ. P. 30(1) (emphasis added) (also indicating that \"[a] party may instruct a deponent not to answer ... when necessary to preserve a privilege\"). Shorter parenthetical phrases may be used if a complete participial phrase is unnecessary in the context of the citation: The Florida Supreme court recently declared that “where the seller of a home knows facts materially affecting the value of the property which are not readily observable and are not known to the buyer, the seller is under a duty to disclose them to the buyer.” \"Johnson v. Davis\", 480 So. 2d 625, 629 (Fla. 1985) (defective roof in three-year-old home). If a source directly quotes or supports an argument (no signal or \"see\" before a citation), no parenthetical is necessary.\n\nIf a cited case has subsequent history or other relevant authority, it follows the parenthetical: \"Anderson v. Terhune\", 467 F.3d 1208 (9th Cir.2006) (claiming that a police officer's continued questioning violated due process rights), \"reh'g en banc granted\", 486 F.3d 1115 (9th Cir.2007).\n\nPortions of text, footnotes, and groups of authorities within the piece are cited with \"supra\" or \"infra\". \"Supra\" refers to material already in the piece, and \"infra\" to material appearing later in the piece. \"Note\" and \"Part\" refer to footnotes and parts (when parts are specifically designed) in the same piece; \"p.\" and \"pp.\" are used to refer to other pages in the same piece. These abbreviations should be used sparingly to avoid repeating a lengthy footnote or to cross-reference a nearby footnote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19513741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19513741", "title": "Countercurrent (Italy, 2006)", "text": "Countercurrent (Italy, 2006)\n\nCountercurrent () is a small, Italian, trotskyist political party. It used to be a faction within the Communist Refoundation Party.\n\nThe group emerged in 2006 as a split from Communist Project, when their leader Marco Ferrando decided to leave the party in order to form his own Workers' Communist Party. For the 24–27 July 2008 congress the faction formed a common list with The Ernesto, another minority faction, and obtained 7.7% of the delegates. In that occasion they supported the election of Paolo Ferrero, leader of the Refoundation in Movement-Being Communists motion, as party secretary, thus joining for the first time the majority of the party.\n\nIn 2010 the faction embraced the Committee for a Workers' International.\n\nIn 2013, the party was the most important promoter of the massive Genoa Public Transportation Strike, that went on for a week and was considered the biggest non-general strike of the year.\n\nIn 2017, Controcorrente left the CWI over disagreements regarding, among other issues, the role of the European Union and Brexit. A large minority including mostly younger members split from Controcorrente to remain part of the CWI, forming a new organisation named Resistenze Internazionali.\n"}
{"id": "19634034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19634034", "title": "Court of Auditors (Spain)", "text": "Court of Auditors (Spain)\n\nThe Tribunal de Cuentas (Court of Auditors) is the supreme governmental accounting body of Spain responsible of the comptrolling of the public accounts and the auditing of the accountancy of the political parties, in accordance with the Constitution and its Organic Law.\n\nThe Court of Auditors is composed by the President and 12 counsellors. The Counsellors are appointed by the Cortes Generales, six of them by the Congress and the other six by the Senate. To be appointed Counsellor of the Court it is needed to be a person with knowledge in audit, judge, prosecutor, university teacher or a public servant in an office that requieres superior studies, lawyer, economist or trade profesor, all of them with recognized experience and with fifteen years of professional activity. The Court Account Counselors are independent and irremovable. Their term is 9 years.\n\nThe very first origins of the Court they go back to the Reign of John II of Castile. Álvaro de Luna, Constable of Castile, advise the King to approve a royal order to make easy the tax collection due to the difficulties in the collection of taxes and in the ordering of the accounts. This royal order is approved in July 2, 1437 which regulated the Senior Accountants, a group of civil servants in charge of resolve economic conflicts and to reclame the money that was not paid in time.\n\nDuring the reign of Isabella and Ferdinand, new ordinances were granted on January 9, 1478, to put an end to the backlog of outstanding accounts since 1454, in the Crown of Castile. The Accountancy has the exclusive and absolute authority to claim, censor and fail all the accounts of the public officials that handle flows and effects. The Senior Accountants are given the responsibility of reviewing them, those taken and completed, as well as determining and judging the scope of accounts. They are also authorized to proceed against any person or Council, and allow them to act on behalf of the Kings.\n\nIn the last years of the reign of King Charles I, on July 10, 1554, new royal orders were granted in Valladolid for the Senior Accountants. They increase the number of accountants and the amount of the Room's right (it was a duty of the citizents of give a room to the King's servants during their stay in town). It is also the first time that it is included in a judicial process of accounts, when accounts considered extraordinary, or with some amendment, the obligation to take an oath to the people who have had them in charge, about the veracity of the confused data.\n\nIn the reign of Philip II, the Senior Accountants are helped by lawyers that advise them and the Treasury Council is created. In 1593, a new reform in the accounting system provokes that the King's Council lose its powers in accounting and these are given to the Council of the Treasury and incompatibilities are created for the Senior Accountants, that cannot have another job at the same time.\n\nIn 1605 were created the Court of Auditors of the Indies in Mexico, Bogotá and Santa Fe to control the accounts of the spanish territories in Americas.\n\nThe Constitution of 1812, passed by the Cortes of Cadiz, provided for the creation of an Accounting Office\"to examine all accounts of public funds\". In 1828, the ordinance establishing the Highest Court of Auditors was approved, which was in force until 1851.  In 1828, the ordinance establishing the Highest Court of Auditors was approved, which was in force until 1851.\n\nDuring the regime established in the Constitution of 1845, a series of major reforms were carried out in the financial administration of the State and the Organic Act of the Court of Auditors, 1851 was approved, which is the seed of the current institution, with responsibility for the financial control of Public Administration.\n\nIn 1870, a new Law on Organization of the Court of Auditors of the Kingdom was approved and was in force until the Supreme Court of the Treasury was established in 1924, which integrated both external and internal control functions of the public sector.\n\nThe Court of Auditors of the Republic was established in the Constitution of 1931 as the supreme audit body of the economic and management in the public sector and its Organic Act was approved in 1934.\n\nRules for adapting the institution to the political regime in force became established later. A Law on Organization, Functions and Procedures of the Court of Auditors of the Kingdom was approved in 1953, amended in 1961, in which the Court of Auditors was defined as the supreme external audit body of the State, with the function of reporting to the Head of State and the courts of the result of its audit activity and the recognition of a genuine judicial function.\n\nThe current Court of Auditors is configured at present by the Constitution of 1978 as the supreme audit body of the economic and management in the public sector, which is independent from the executive power and is directly linked to the Spanish Parliament.\n\nThe Court of Auditors is formed by the President, the Plenary, the Management Board, the Audit Section, the Prosecution Section, the Audit Counsellors, the Court of Auditors Prosecutor's Office and the General Secretariat.\n\nThe President is the head of the Court. The President represents the court, convenes and chairs the Plenum and the Management Board, oversees the personnel of the Court and is the body in charge of recruitment and control the budget.\n\nThe Plenum, in general, deals with the audit function and proposes the approach to conflicts affecting the competences or powers of the Court of Auditors to Parliament. It also gives resolutions against the provisions and acts of other organs of the Court in the performance of governmental or staff-related functions.\n\nThe Plenum is composed of twelve Audit Counsellors (one of whom shall be the President) and the Chief Prosecutorof the Court of Auditors. The Secretary-General acts as secretary of the Plenum, with voice but without vote, and writes the minutes, reflecting the outcome of the deliberations and resolutions adopted.\n\nThe Plenum will meet at least once c month, except in the holiday period of August, as well as the extraordinary calls made by the President with justified cause, or upon request of three members of the Plenum.  The quorum to validly constitute the meetings shall be two thirds of its members and their resolutions shall be adopted by a majority of participants, except in cases where the law requires a qualified majority.\n\nThe discussions of the Plenum are confidential, must be kept secret by attendees and all those who could know them by reason of their duties.\n\nThe management board in general, sets the working conditions of the Court, exercises disciplinary powers in cases of gross misconduct, distributes cases between Sections and appoints delegates instructors.\n\nThe management board is composed of the President of the Court of Auditors and the Presidents of the Audit and Prosecution Sections. The Secretary-General acts as Secretary of the Management Board, with the right to speak but not to vote.\n\nIt is the body of the Court of Auditors assigned the functions of verifying the accounts of public sector entities, reviewing and auditing of the accounts subject to audit, examination of the audit procedures conducted in the various departments and making proposals to the Plenum regarding the results of the audit procedures (report, motion or memo) taken to the Spanish Parliament.\n\nThe Audit Section is organized into eight departments: five sectoral departments, which are aligned, as far as possible, with the large areas of the financial-economic activity in the public sector; two territorial departments, one of which audits economic and financial activity of the Autonomous Regions and Autonomous Cities and another for local entities and a department of Political Parties.\n\nThe section consists of seven Audit Counsellors appointed by the audit departments.  One of them is also the President of the Audit Section.\n\nIt is the jurisdictional body of the Court. Among its functions are prepare the Summary of the court proceedings during the relevant financial year and make an appropriate proposal to the Plenum, submit to the Plenum the amendments to be made to the structure of the Section, as well as creating new rooms when the number of cases so require and laying the criteria on the basis of which case-allocation is decided among the Rooms and Counsellors of the Prosecution Section.\n\nThe Prosecution Section comprises the President and the Audit Counsellors, aware of court proceedings as first instance bodies or attached to the Courtroom or Courtrooms.\n\nThe Court of Auditors Prosecutor's Office functionally reports to the Attorney General and is composed of the Chief Prosecutor (member of the Plenum of the Court), and the Prosecuting Attorneys. The Prosecutor of the Court of Auditors is appointed by the Government.\n\nThe Court of Auditors Prosecutors’ Office is responsible for being heard in audit procedures before final approval and issue its opinion on the General State Accounts and the  other reports, memoranda, motions and memos of the Court of Auditors, being able to request the adoption of the measures that it deems appropriate in order to assign liability for the financial responsibilities that may result; take notice of all the audit procedures and court proceedings being dealt with in the Court of Auditors for the purpose of clarifying the possible financial liabilities arising from them and bringing an action for accounting liability and deducting the claims of this nature in the repayment for debtor balance proceedings and in the auditing of accounts.\n\nThe General Secretariat performs the functions leading to the proper exercise of governmental powers of the President of the Court, the Plenum and the Management Board in all matters relating to the Court of Auditors the internal system.\n\nThe General Secretariat is vested with the powers of management, processing, documentation and registration of matters within the competence of the President, the Plenum and the Management Board. The Secretary-General acts as Secretary of the Plenum and the Management Board, with the right to speak but not to vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "46639294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46639294", "title": "Deepan Budlakoti", "text": "Deepan Budlakoti\n\nDeepan Budlakoti is an Ottawa-born man best known for Canada's refusal to acknowledge him as a citizen. His case, supported by numerous human rights organizations and a broad mobilization of public support, was heard by several Canadian courts, and has captured domestic and international attention. Since Budlakoti does not hold any citizenship, his case raises questions of citizenship, statelessness, and deportation.\n\nBudlakoti was born on October 17, 1989 in Ottawa, Ontario, to Indian nationals who had been employed at the Indian High Commission. Section 3(2) of the \"Citizenship Act\" states that children of diplomats and their staff, when born in Canada, are not entitled to Canadian citizenship. The Government of Canada alleged that at the time of Budlakoti's birth, his parents were working as cleaning staff at the High Commission; Budlakoti contended that his parents had left that job several months prior. After his birth, Budlakoti was issued an Ontario birth certificate, and subsequently two Canadian passports. In 1992, Budlakoti's parents applied for permanent residency, listing Budlakoti as a dependent. The application was accepted.\n\nIn late 2010, Budlakoti was convicted for weapons trafficking, firearm possession and cocaine trafficking, and sentenced to three years in prison. The Justice for Deepan Support Committee, which works with Budlakoti to raise awareness about the case, raise money for escalating legal fees, and put political pressure on elected officials to reverse the decision, contends that Budlakoti was entrapped by an undercover police officer, and that Budlakoti pleaded guilty due to the high legal fees.\n\nWhile Budlakoti was in prison, Citizenship and Immigration Canada determined that he was not and had never been a Canadian citizen, and thus was inadmissible to Canada on the basis of section 36(1) of the \"Immigration and Refugee Protection Act\", and issued a removal order accordingly. Budlakoti was released in 2012 while awaiting judicial review of the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada's decision. As a result, Budlakoti lost all other corresponding Canadian identification, leaving him unable to work, access health care, exercise the full extent of his mobility rights, and live alone.\n\nIn June 2014, Budlakoti's case was heard before the Federal Court. Budlakoti argued that his section 7 \"Charter\" rights to life, liberty, and security of the person were violated. In the fall of 2014, the Federal Court dismissed Budlakoti's application for judicial review, holding that \"[t]he fact that passports were issued to the Applicant is not, in this case, determinative of citizenship\". The court found that issuing a declaration of citizenship would fall outside the court's authority. The court dismissed Budlakoti's section 7 \"Charter\" argument, finding that \"denial of citizenship is not synonymous with deportation\", and that \"the denial of state funded health care does not violate s 7\", per \"Chaoulli v Quebec (AG)\".\n\nBudlakoti appealed to the Federal Court of Appeal, where the appeal was dismissed. The court held that Budlakoti was not stateless, per the \"Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness\", since he could still \"take steps to apply for citizenship in India and in Canada\" through the general citizenship application process, or by invoking the \"special and unusual hardship\" rule in the \"Citizenship Act\". The court found that he had not yet availed himself of either of these procedures in Canada or in India. Budlakoti argued that then-Minister of Citizenship Chris Alexander was biased, as a spokesperson for Alexander had previously denounced Budlakoti as a \"criminal\". The court rejected this argument, finding that if Budlakoti applied under the \"special and unusual hardship\" rule, the hardship would be \"determinative... [and] neither the Minister nor his officials have commented on that issue\".\n\nA request for leave for appeal to the Supreme Court was denied in January 2016.\n\nThis case is unique and has attracted international attention. Amnesty International has condemned the Canadian government's actions, arguing that as a signatory to the United Nations \"Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness\", Canada should \"act to reduce statelessness and uphold the right to a nationality\".\n\nOn November 8, 2017, charges were announced against Deepan Budlakoti, following a police operation called Project Landslide: A total of 83 counts of gun trafficking, possessing the proceeds of crime and breaching a gun ban. The results of the investigation by the Ontario Provincial Police’s organized crime enforcement bureau and Ottawa and Gatineau police were announced Wednesday. The guns seized included an AR-15 rifle, SKS semi-automatic rifle with a bayonet, an Uzi submachine-gun, half a dozen handguns and ammunition.\n\nThe drugs included 156,000 methamphetamine pills packed into pillow-sized clear plastic bags. Other items seized included a studded wooden club, a swastika-emblazoned butterfly knife and brass knuckles.\n\n"}
{"id": "39199254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39199254", "title": "Digital Copyright", "text": "Digital Copyright\n\nDigital Copyright: Protecting Intellectual Property on the Internet is a 2000 book by Jessica Litman detailing the legislative struggles over the passage of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. It was widely reviewed and is generally cited as the definitive history of the DMCA's passage, as well as an exemplar of the lobbying and jockeying around passage of contemporary copyright legislation. Karen Coyle noted that \n\nthis is not a law book, although it is about law. \"Digital Copyright\" is instead a social history of copyright law. It is not about the law per se but about how the technology developments of the 20th century changed how copyright law is crafted in the United States and who reaps the benefits.\n\nThe publisher, Prometheus Books, described the book in its blurb: \n\nIn 1998, copyright lobbyists succeeded in persuading Congress to enact laws greatly expanding copyright owners' control over the private uses of their works by individuals. The efforts to enforce these new rights have resulted in highly publicized legal battles between established media, including major record labels and motion picture studios, and upstart Internet companies such as MP3.com and Napster. The general public is used to thinking of copyright (if it thinks of it at all) as magical and arcane, and it hasn't paid much attention as legislation to expand copyright moved through Congress. But copyright law is central to our society's information policy, and affects what we can read, view, hear, use, or learn. In this enlightening and well-argued book, law professor Jessica Litman questions whether copyright laws crafted by lawyers and their lobbyists really make sense for the vast majority of us. Should every interaction between ordinary consumers and copyright-protected works be governed by laws drafted without ordinary consumers in mind? Is it practical to enforce such laws, or to expect consumers to obey them? Most important, what are the effects of such laws on the exchange of information in a free society? Litman's critique exposes the 1998 copyright law as incoherent. She argues for commonsense reforms that reflect the way people actually behave in their daily digital interactions.\n\nThe book includes an initial chapter on American copyright law (Chapter 1: \"Copyright Basics\"), and then the next several chapters focus on the legislative processes in US copyright law. Joseph Fogel, reviewing the book, wrote: \n\nLitman's chapter on twentieth-century copyright law is wonderful. She criticizes negotiated copyright statutes as being unworkable. Congress, she recounts, relied upon private 'experts' to write copyright bills because the issues seemed to be the province of a very narrow slice of citizenry and thus not worthy of much of an elected official's time.\n\nBeginning with chapter 10, Litman examines the aftermath of the enactment of the DMCA. Chapter 10, \"The Copyright Wars\", considers the use of digital rights management in the motion picture and music industries, including DeCSS on DVDs, and the lack of widespread adoption of a similar technology on music CDs. Litman reviews \"Universal City Studios v. Reimerdes\" and related cases, and for the music industry, \"UMG Recordings v. MP3.com\", \"A&M Records v. Napster, Inc.\", and \"Recording Industry Association v. Diamond Multimedia\". Comparing the industries' strategies, Litman notes, \n\nBy engaging in a scorched-earth campaign, the recording industry squandered some truly awesome assets. ... [It] ... was unwilling to commit itself to an insecure digital standard that might become entrenched. Instead, it fought about whose patented security algorithm would become the new standard, and it focused on herding all MP3 music off the Internet. \n\nChapter 11 continues this analysis, with some reflections on the relative value of litigation versus legislation as strategies for the content industries.\n\nIn Chapter 12, \"Revising Copyright Law for the Digital Age\", Litman reviews the overall approach to developing copyright laws, concluding that \"If we are to devise a copyright law that meets the public's needs, we might most profitably abandon the copyright law's traditional reliance on reproduction, and refashion our measure of unlawful use to better incorporate the public's understanding of the copyright bargain.\"\n\nIn the 2006 edition, Litman included an updated foreword, which discussed in greater detail the peer-to-peer litigations that arose after the DMCA's enactment.\n\nIn 2017, Litman published a new edition of the book under a CC-BY-ND creative commons license through Maize Books. The 2017 edition includes a new postscript responding to some of the legal developments during the 19 years that followed Congress's enactment of the DMCA.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "780410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780410", "title": "Double default", "text": "Double default\n\nDouble default occurs in banking, when the obligor and the guarantor fail to meet their obligations.\n"}
{"id": "15187904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15187904", "title": "EZproxy", "text": "EZproxy\n\nEZproxy is a web proxy server used by libraries to give access from outside the library's computer network to restricted-access websites that authenticate users by IP address. This allows library patrons at home or elsewhere to log in through their library's EZproxy server and gain access to bibliographic databases and the like to which their library subscribes.\n\nThe software was originally written by Chris Zagar in 1999 who founded Useful Utilities LLC to support it. OCLC announced in January 2008 that it had acquired the product and was hiring Zagar as a full-time consultant for a year. Zagar is a librarian who serves as a systems librarian at the Estrella Mountain Community College, a part of the Maricopa Community Colleges in Arizona. He won the 2006 LITA/Brett Butler Entrepreneurship Award for his work with EZproxy.\n\nEZproxy is a URL rewriting program that works by dynamically altering the URLs within the web pages provided by the database vendor. The server names within the URLs of these web pages are changed to reflect the EZproxy server instead, causing users to return to the EZproxy server as they access links on these web pages.\" Previous proxy solutions were complex and difficult to maintain, and when EZproxy was created, authentication systems like Shibboleth were still far in the future.\n\nThe software is sometimes confused with generic proxy server software designed to control web access. It is sometimes referred to as a \"proxy referral\" server to distinguish it.\n\nThe software has been purchased by more than 2,500 institutions in over 60 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "49850142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49850142", "title": "Emergency Federal Register", "text": "Emergency Federal Register\n\nThe Emergency Federal Register is the planned replacement for the \"Federal Register\", the official journal of the United States government, in the event publication of the \"Federal Register\" is suspended by presidential decree following the onset of a severe national calamity, such as a major nuclear attack or the mainland invasion of the United States. According to the Office of the Federal Register, the \"Emergency Federal Register\" \"can only be activated under extreme national security conditions\".\n\nPublication in the \"Federal Register\" of newly enacted federal regulations is required prior to their effective date. The purpose of the \"Emergency Federal Register\" would be to permit the continuation of such required publication but from a location outside of Washington, DC, in the event that city were overrun or rendered uninhabitable, or by methods or means other than bound paper, possibly including broadcast transmission or a town crier system. The Office of the Federal Register maintains alternate work sites where the \"Emergency Federal Register\" can be managed, including one site in Laurel, Maryland, another site in Rocket Center, West Virginia, and at least one other \"classified location\".\n\nAuthority for activation of an alternative to the \"Federal Register\" is contained in Title 44, Section 1505 of the United States Code, which specifies that:\n\nIn the event of an attack or threatened attack upon the continental United States and a determination by the President that as a result of an attack or threatened attack publication of the Federal Register or filing of documents with the Office of the Federal Register is impracticable, or under existing conditions publication in the Federal Register would not serve to give appropriate notice to the public of the contents of documents, the President may, without regard to any other provision of law, suspend all or part of the requirements of law or regulation for filing with the Office or publication in the Federal Register of documents or classes of documents.\n\nMany new regulations required in a crisis situation, however, would not require advance publication. A contingency regulatory code, operating in parallel to the \"Code of Federal Regulations\" and known as the \"Emergency Code of Federal Regulations\", can be immediately promulgated following the onset of an emergency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9682439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9682439", "title": "Ferguson v. City of Charleston", "text": "Ferguson v. City of Charleston\n\nFerguson v. City of Charleston, , is a United States Supreme Court decision that found Medical University of South Carolina's policy regarding involuntary drug testing of pregnant women to violate the Fourth Amendment. The Court held that the search in question was unreasonable.\n\nIn the fall of 1988, staff at a hospital operated by the Medical University of South Carolina became concerned about the prevalence of so-called \"crack babies,\" as well as an increase in cocaine use among pregnant women receiving prenatal treatment at the hospital. In the spring of 1989, hospital staff began conducting urine screens on pregnant women, and referring the women who tested positive for counseling. Soon after the urine screenings began, the case manager in the hospital's obstetrics department heard that police in Greenville, South Carolina, were arresting pregnant women who used cocaine for child abuse. The theory behind the arrests was that the women's cocaine use was harmful to the fetuses. After reviewing the idea with counsel, the MUSC hospital began referring pregnant women who tested positive for cocaine to Charleston police for prosecution.\n\nActing together, hospital staff and the police department developed a written policy for determining which pregnant women would be screened and, if they tested positive, prosecuted. Women would be selected for urine screening if they met certain criteria, such as prior lack of prenatal care, known history of drug or alcohol abuse, intrauterine fetal death, or abruptio placentae. If the women tested positive, they were referred to substance abuse counseling and threatened with prosecution. The hospital staff acknowledged that the \"threat of law enforcement intervention... provided the necessary leverage to make the policy effective.\" Women who tested positive a second time were arrested, even before giving birth. If the positive test occurred prior to the 28th week of pregnancy, the woman would be charged with simple possession. If she tested positive in the 28th week or later, she would be charged with possession and distribution to a person under age 18—to wit, the fetus. If she delivered the baby \"while testing positive for illegal drugs,\" the woman would also be charged with unlawful neglect of a child.\n\nThirty pregnant women who had been arrested pursuant to the policy brought suit in federal court, challenging the MUSC policy of conducting warrantless, nonconsensual drug testing as violating their Fourth Amendment right to be free from unreasonable searches and seizures. The hospital and the city raised two primary defenses—first, that the women had consented to the searches; and second, that even if they had not consented, the searches were reasonable as a matter of law because they were justified by \"special non-law-enforcement purposes.\" The district court rejected the second defense because it concluded that the searches were conducted for law enforcement purposes. It submitted the first defense to the jury, instructing the jury that if the jury found that the women had consented, the jury should rule for the city and the hospital. The jury found that the women had consented, and thus ruled for the city and the hospital. The women appealed.\n\nOn appeal, the Fourth Circuit affirmed, but on the ground that the searches were justified as a matter of law by special non-law-enforcement needs. It reasoned that the interest in curtailing pregnancy complications and reducing the medical costs associated with maternal cocaine use outweighed what it characterized as a \"minimal intrusion\" on the women's privacy. The Supreme Court then agreed to hear the case.\n\nMUSC is a state-operated hospital, so its employees are government actors subject to the Fourth Amendment. And a drug screen is a \"search\" covered by the Fourth Amendment. Because the Fourth Circuit had ruled only on the special needs claim, the Court assumed that the women had not consented to the drug screens. It then concluded that the special needs doctrine did not permit MUSC to conduct the drug screens according to its policy.\n\nThe fact that the women neither knew of nor consented to the drug screens made this case different from the other cases in which the Court had applied the special needs doctrine. In \"Skinner v. Railway Labor Executives Association\", \"National Treasury Employees Union v. Von Raab\", and \"Vernonia School District 47J v. Acton\", the Court had sustained drug testing under the special needs doctrine in light of the subjects' consent; in \"Chandler v. Miller\", the Court had struck down drug testing under the special needs doctrine despite the subjects' consent. In all four of those cases, the fact that the subjects consented lessened the invasion on the subjects' privacy.\n\nIn this case, by contrast, the extent of the invasion on the women's privacy was far greater. \"The reasonable expectation of privacy enjoyed by the typical patient undergoing diagnostic tests in a hospital is that the results of those tests will not be shared with nonmedical personnel without her consent.\" By turning over the results of these medical tests to the police without the women's consent, MUSC violated this reasonable expectation of privacy. In this case, unless the special needs doctrine applied, this intrusion upon the women's expectation of privacy would amount to a violation of the Fourth Amendment.\n\nThe Court did not simply take the city and the hospital at their word that their motivations were beneficent; rather, the Court examined all the evidence available to determine whether the special needs advanced were divorced from the generalized interest in law enforcement. For example, in \"Railway Executives\", the need to discover the cause of railway accidents justified the drug testing, and in \"Acton\" it was the need to promote a drug-free school environment. In this case, however, the very reason for the policy was to use the threat of arrest to motivate the women to abstain from using cocaine. This fact was evident from the fact that police and prosecutors assisted the hospital staff in developing specimen collection and chain-of-custody procedures, the nature of possible criminal charges to which the patients would be subject, and how the police would be notified and the arrests would be accomplished. \"While the ultimate goal of the program may well have been to get the women in question into substance abuse treatment and off of drugs, the immediate objective of the searches was to generate evidence \"for law enforcement purposes\" in order to reach that goal.\" Because the MUSC plan used the threat of arrest as the means to accomplish its overall goal of inducing pregnant women to abstain from using cocaine, \"this case simply does not fit within the closely guarded category of 'special needs.'\" The mere fact that the hospital may have had benevolent motives cannot justify departing from the protections of the Fourth Amendment, especially in light of the heavy involvement of law enforcement with the hospital's program.\n\nJustice Kennedy pointed out that all searches, by definition, would uncover evidence of crime, and this says nothing about the \"special needs\" the search might serve. In this case, however, Kennedy agreed that \"while the policy may well have served legitimate needs unrelated to law enforcement, it had as well a penal character with a far greater connection to law enforcement than other searches sustained under our special needs rationale.\"\n\nJustice Scalia reasoned that there was no \"search\" in this case because the hospital did not take the urine from the women without their consent. Urine, a waste product, would ordinarily be abandoned by the person who produces it; anyone who came across it would be free to do with it what they will, just as with garbage found on the sidewalk. There is no \"search\" in the case of garbage left on the sidewalk because its (former) owner no longer expresses any interest in keeping it private. For a similar reason, there is no \"search\" involved in performing a urine screen because the women voluntarily provided it to the hospital—and even if they had not, the women would have freely abandoned it anyway.\n\nScalia also reasoned that even if the women had been coerced into providing the urine samples, it was not the government that coerced them. This was so, Scalia reasoned, even if these women had to provide the samples as a precondition of receiving their prenatal medical care.\nNothing was violated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56678291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56678291", "title": "Freedom Online Coalition", "text": "Freedom Online Coalition\n\nThe Freedom Online Coalition is a group of 30 governments that work together to advance Internet freedom, mainly through coordinating diplomatic initiatives and interventions at relevant international fora. The Freedom Online Coalition was launched at a conference of the Dutch Government in The Hague, the Netherlands in December 2011. \n\nParticipating countries commit to \"promoting the freedoms of expression, association, and peaceful assembly with respect to the Internet and connection technologies\". They endorse the principle that the human rights that people have offline should enjoy the same protection online, including freedom of assembly and the right to organize, freedom of religion and the right to be protected by the \"arbitrary\" intrude into his privacy. Its work builds on the resolution on \"The Promotion, Protection and Enjoyment of Human Rights on the Internet\" adopted by United Nations Human Rights Council in July 2012. \n\nThe group has held annual meetings in The Netherlands (2011), Kenya (2012), Tunisia (2013), Estonia (2014), Mongolia (2015) and Costa Rica (2016) . The group has 30 member countries (February 2018). In 2018, the Chairmanship of the Freedom Online Coalition is held by the German Government.\n\n"}
{"id": "58098952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58098952", "title": "Future Bank", "text": "Future Bank\n\nFuture Bank B.S.C. () is a commercial bank that was based in Manama, Bahrain. It started as a joint venture by Ahli United Bank and two Iranian state-owned banks, Bank Melli and Bank Saderat.\n\nCentral Bank of Bahrain closed down the bank in 2016 after Bahrain cut diplomatic ties with Iran. In 2017, Central Bank of the Islamic Republic of Iran licensed the bank to open a branch in Kish Island.\n \n"}
{"id": "241905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241905", "title": "Government in exile", "text": "Government in exile\n\nA government in exile is a political group which claims to be a country or semi-sovereign state's legitimate government, but is unable to exercise legal power and instead resides in another state or foreign country. Governments in exile usually plan to one day return to their native country and regain formal power. A government in exile differs from a rump state in the sense that a rump state controls at least part of its former territory. For example, during World War I, nearly all of Belgium was occupied by Germany, but Belgium and its allies held on to a small slice in the country's west. A government in exile, in contrast, has lost all its territory.\n\nExiled governments tend to occur during wartime occupation, or in the aftermath of a civil war, revolution, or military coup. For example, during German expansion in World War II, some European governments sought refuge in the United Kingdom, rather than face destruction at the hands of Nazi Germany. A government in exile may also form from widespread belief in the illegitimacy of a ruling government. Due to the outbreak of the Syrian Civil War back in 2011, for instance, the National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces was formed by groups whose members sought to end the rule of the ruling Ba'ath Party. \n\nThe effectiveness of a government in exile depends primarily on the amount of support it can receive, either from foreign governments or from the population of its own country. Some exiled governments come to develop into a formidable force, posing a serious challenge to the incumbent regime of the country, while others are maintained chiefly as a symbolic gesture.\n\nThe phenomenon of a government in exile predates the formal utilization of the term. In periods of monarchical government, exiled monarchs or dynasties sometimes set up exile courts—as the House of Stuart did when driven from their throne by Oliver Cromwell and again at the Glorious Revolution (see ). The House of Bourbon would be another example because it continued to be recognized by other countries at the time as the legitimate government of France after it was overthrown by the populace during the French Revolution. This continued to last through the rule of Napoleon Bonaparte and the Napoleonic Wars from 1803-04 to 1815. With the spread of constitutional monarchy, monarchical governments which were exiled started to include a prime minister, such as the Dutch government during World War II headed by Pieter Sjoerds Gerbrandy.\n\nInternational law recognizes that governments in exile may undertake many types of actions in the conduct of their daily affairs. These actions include:\n\nIn cases where a host country holds a large expatriate population from a government in exile's home country, or an ethnic population from that country, the government in exile might come to exercise some administrative functions within such a population. For example, the WWII Provisional Government of Free India had such authority among the ethnically Indian population of British Malaya, with the consent of the then Japanese military authorities.\n\nGovernments in exile may have little or no recognition from other states. Some exiled governments have some characteristics in common with rump states. Such disputed or partially in exile cases are noted in the tables below.\n\nThese governments in exile were created by deposed governments or rulers who continue to claim legitimate authority of the state they once controlled.\n\nThese governments in exile were created by deposed governments or rulers who continue to claim legitimate authority of the state they once controlled but whose state no longer exists.\n\n Government of the Republic of China: The currently Taipei-based Republic of China government does not regard itself as a government-in-exile, but is claimed to be such by some participants in the debate on the political status of Taiwan. In addition to the island of Taiwan and some other islands it currently controls, the Republic of China formally maintains claims over territory now controlled by the People's Republic of China as well as some parts of Afghanistan, Bhutan, India, Japan, Mongolia, Myanmar, Pakistan, Russia, and Tajikistan. The usual formal reasoning on which this \"government-in-exile\" claim is based relies on an argument that the sovereignty of Taiwan was not legitimately handed to the Republic of China at the end of World War II, and on that basis the Republic of China is located in foreign territory, therefore effectively making it a government in exile. By contrast, this theory is not accepted by those who view the sovereignty of Taiwan as having been legitimately returned to the Republic of China at the end of the war. Both the People's Republic of China government and the Republic of China government hold the latter view.\n\nHowever, there are also some who do not accept that the sovereignty of Taiwan was legitimately returned to the Republic of China at the end of the war nor that the Republic of China is a government-in-exile. The current DPP-ruled Republic of China government is inclined to this view.\n\nThese governments in exile claim legitimacy of autonomous territories of another state and have been created by deposed governments or rulers, who do not claim independence as a separate state.\n\nThese governments have been created in exile by political organisations and opposition parties, aspire to become actual governing authorities or claim to be legal successors to previously deposed governments, and have been created as alternatives to incumbent governments.\n\nThese governments have been created in exile by political organisations, opposition parties, and separatist movements, and desire to become the governing authorities of their territories as independent states, or claim to be the successor to previously deposed governments, and have been created as alternatives to incumbent governments.\n\nThese governments in exile are governments of non-self-governing or occupied territories. They claim legitimate authority over a territory they once controlled, or claim legitimacy of a post-decolonization authority. The claim may stem from an exiled group's election as a legitimate government.\n\nThe United Nations recognizes the right of self-determination for the population of these territories, including the possibility of establishing independent sovereign states.\n\nFrom the Palestinian Declaration of Independence in 1988 in exile in Algiers by the Palestine Liberation Organization, it has effectively functioned as the government in exile of the Palestinian State. In 1994, however the PLO established the Palestinian National Authority interim territorial administration as result of the Oslo Accords signed by the PLO, Israel, the United States, and Russia. Between 1994 and 2013, the PNA functioned as an autonomy, thus while the government was seated in the West Bank it was not sovereign. In 2013, Palestine was upgraded to a non-member state status in the UN.\n\nAll of the above created an ambiguous situation, in which there are two distinct entities: The Palestinian Authority, exercising a severely limited amount of control on the ground under the tutelage of an Israeli military occupation; and the State of Palestine, recognized by the United Nations and by numerous countries as a fully sovereign and independent state, but not able to exercise such sovereignty on the ground. Both are headed by the same person—as of February 2016, President Mahmud Abbas—but are judicially distinct. For example, a dissolution of The Palestinian Authority and resumption of full rule on the ground by Israel would not in itself affect the State of Palestine, which could continue to exist as a government-in-exile diplomatically recognized by the UN and by numerous countries.\n\nThese governments have ties to the area(s) they represent, but their claimed status and/or stated aims are sufficiently ambiguous that they could fit into other categories.\n\nThe Sovereign Military Order of Malta may be considered a case of a government in exile, since it is without territory but recognised as a sovereign government by numerous sovereign countries. However, it does not claim to be a sovereign state, rather a \"sovereign subject\" of international law. In addition, it no longer claims jurisdiction over Malta, and recognises and maintains diplomatic relations with the independent Republic of Malta.\n\nMany countries established a government in exile after loss of sovereignty in connection with World War II.\n\nA large number of European governments-in-exile were set up in London.\nOther exiled leaders in Britain in this time included King Zog of Albania and Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia.\n\nThe Occupation of Denmark (9 April 1940) was administered mainly by the German Foreign Office, contrary to other occupied lands that were under military or civilian administration. Denmark did not establish a government in exile, although there was an Association of Free Danes established in London. King Christian X and his government remained in Denmark, and functioned comparatively independently until August 1943 when it was dissolved, placing Denmark under full German occupation. Meanwhile, Iceland, Greenland and the Faroe Islands were occupied by the Allies, and effectively separated from the Danish crown. (See British occupation of the Faroe Islands, Iceland during World War II, and History of Greenland during World War II.)\n\nThe Philippine Commonwealth (invaded 9 December 1941) established a government in exile in Australia and the United States.\n\nWhile formed long before World War II, the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea continued in exile in China until the end of the war.\n\nAt the fall of Java, and the surrender by the Dutch on behalf of Allied forces on 8 March 1942, many Dutch-Indies officials (including Dr van Mook and Dr Charles van der Plas) managed to flee to Australia in March 1942, and on 23 December 1943, the Royal Government (Dutch) decreed an official Netherlands East Indies Government-in-exile, with Dr van Mook as Acting Governor General, on Australian soil until Dutch rule was restored in the Indies.\n\nUnder the auspices of the Axis powers, Axis-aligned groups from some countries set up \"governments-in-exile\" in Axis territory, even though internationally recognized governments remained in place in their home countries.\nFollowing the Ba'athist Iraqi invasion and occupation of Kuwait, during the Persian Gulf War, on August 2, 1990, Sheikh Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Jaber Al-Sabah and senior members of his government fled to Saudi Arabia, where they set up a government-in-exile in Ta'if. The Kuwaiti government in exile was far more affluent than most other such governments, having full disposal of the very considerable Kuwaiti assets in western banks—of which it made use to conduct a massive propaganda campaign denouncing the Ba'athist Iraqi occupation and mobilizing public opinion in the western hemisphere in favor of war with Ba'athist Iraq. In March 1991, following the defeat of Ba'athist Iraq at the hands of coalition forces in the Persian Gulf War, the Sheikh and his government were able to return to Kuwait.\n\nFollowing the Turkish Invasion of Cyprus in 1974 and the displacement of many Greek Cypriots from North Cyprus, displaced inhabitants of several towns set up what are in effect Municipal Councils in Exile, headed by Mayors in Exile. The idea is the same as with a national Government in Exile – to assert a continuation of legitimate rule, even though having no control of the ground, and working towards restoration of such control. Meetings of the exiled Municipal Council of Lapithos took place in the homes of its members until the Exile Municipality was offered temporary offices at 37 Ammochostou Street, Nicosia. The current Exile Mayor of the town is Athos Eleftheriou. The same premises are shared with the Exile Municipal Council of Kythrea.\n\nAlso in the Famagusta District of Cyprus, the administration of the part retained by the Republic of Cyprus considers itself as a \"District administration in exile\", since the district's capital Famagusta had been under Turkish control since 1974.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121275", "title": "Guest statute", "text": "Guest statute\n\nA guest statute is a term used in the law of torts to describe a statute that makes it significantly more difficult for a passenger in an automobile to recover damages from the driver for injuries received in an accident resulting from ordinary negligence on the part of the driver. Instead, passengers are limited to suits based on gross negligence, recklessness, or intentional misconduct. The statute may also place a cap on the damages to be awarded, or limit damages to compensation for actual physical injuries.\n\nThe original purpose of the guest statute was both to protect drivers from frivolous litigation and to protect insurance companies from collusive and fraudulent suits (wherein the passenger sues the driver in order to collect from the driver's insurer). For the same reason, some states also passed aviation guest statutes, which limit the liability of non-commercial airplane passengers. Many guest statutes now appear to have been abolished. For example, Nebraska's guest statute was repealed in 2010 following a court case upholding its constitutionality. Oregon maintains a guest statute applicable to non-paying passengers in aircraft or watercraft limiting claims for injury, death or loss in case of an accident, unless the accident was intentional on the part of the owner or operator or caused by the gross negligence or intoxication of the owner or operator. \n"}
{"id": "13812379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13812379", "title": "History of South African nationality", "text": "History of South African nationality\n\nSouth African nationality has been influenced primarily by the racial dynamics that have structured South African society throughout its development. The country's colonial history led to the immigration (or importation) of different racial and ethnic groups into one shared area. Power dispersion and inter-group relations led to European dominance of the state, allowing it to directly shape nationality although not without internal division or influence from the less empowered races.\n\nSouth African nationality begins with its history as a European colony. In 1652, the Dutch East India Company (abbreviated V.O.C., in reference to the original Dutch version of this title or DEIC) established the first permanent European settlement in the Cape region. At that time, the pastoral group known as the Khoikhoi inhabited the region along with other Niger-Congo peoples who had emigrated from the Northwest approximately 1500 years prior. The Dutch formally purchased land from the Khoikhoi in 1671 and Cape Colony was established.\n\nAs the colony developed and expanded, slaves from other African regions as well as parts of South and Southeast Asia were imported to work in agriculture and in domestic service. During the 18th century, the growth in population of white settlers was nearly identical to increases in slave populations, despite the fact that the slaves were predominantly male.\n\nThus the society under Dutch rule was a mixture of races and ethnic groups: the indigenous Khoikhoi peoples, the white settlers of European descent who eventually became Afrikaners, and the heterogeneous slave populations from various other parts of Africa and Asia. Since only members of V.O.C. had the right to land ownership or political power, the colony's system of law internalized and perpetuated racial inequalities. The constrictive, domineering administrative policies of the V.O.C. led to considerable settler resentment of authority structures, and the libertarianism associated with the Boers (South Africans of Dutch descent).\n\nThe imposition of British colonial rule created a tense dynamic between the two European groups. They mutually occupied the position of dominant colonizer in the early society, but their linguistic, cultural and ideological differences created friction between the two groups. In the case of the Boers, this imposing force served to unite their fractioned groups under a single identity against a common enemy.\n\nThe British aimed to adjust the cultural life of colonial society to the legal realities of British rule. This meant imposing their system of beliefs, their organizational methods, and their political idiosyncrasies on the colonized groups as well developing new ones. After an unsuccessful attempt to claim the colony in 1795, the British permanently established their control between 1806 and 1815. An influx of British pioneers entered the colony, introducing the English language to the region and setting up new frontier settlements. In 1822, the court system was anglicized, posing a significant disadvantage to Afrikaans-speaking individuals. Incentives were offered to teachers who conducted their lessons in English, resulting in a transition from Dutch to English education with adverse long-term effects on Afrikaner education levels. The British introduced the Roman Dutch law system. Law enforcement and court systems were centralized by the British, countering the Boer tradition of small, local courts and decentralized democracy.\n\nUnder British rule, relations with the Afrikaners were harmonious at first, but a growing ethnic tension began as the British began to assert their political and cultural dominance over the Boers. While British colonists maintained their British citizenship, this status was extended neither to the Boers nor the Africa and Asia populations who all became British subjects.\n\nNevertheless, the British also imported liberal, post-Enlightenment values. The Slave Trade Act 1807 abolished the slave trade throughout the British empire and established humanitarian guidelines restricting slave-owners. Despite protests by slave owners, the slaves were legally liberated throughout the British Empire by the Slavery Abolition Act 1833. The emancipation of the Khoikhoi and other non-Europeans was the result of considerable pressure from various missionary groups within the colony rather than from the metropole. The introduction of circuit courts specifically for upholding claims from former slaves against former masters led to the \"Black circuit\" commissions, which aroused considerable public outcry when the law was actually enforced in cases of black men against white men.\n\nBetween 1809 and 1823, Du Pré Alexander, 2nd Earl of Caledon established a series of policies addressing the pressing issue of landlessness that emancipation had created. Collectively, these policies formed a paternalistic code that gave the former slaves some protection but also relegated them to the lowest status in society. In 1828, Ordinance 50 made it possible for blacks and Asians to own property, abolished the requirement that they carry identification passes, and required employers to provide contracts for all work. While the content of this law was clearly intended to aid the former-slave populations, these measures were implemented minimally if at all and inequalities between the races persisted.\n\nDespite the shared sense of white superiority, the English-speaking groups and the Afrikaners were pitted against one another in competition for political, economic and cultural dominance. This conflict led to the hardening of the two groups' respective national identities and eventually resulted in the expansion beyond the Cape Colony, two wars and the creation of a New South African state.\n\nIn 1835, a group of Boers left the colony in search of a new territory to establish their own society free from British control. These individuals were known as the Voortrekkers (\"pioneers\") and their exodus became known as the Great Trek. While this endeavor proved hazardous and less productive than they may have envisioned, it provided a model for subsequent Boer migrations away from British sovereignty and the establishment of separate Boer states (Orange Free State, South African Republic, Colony of Natal). These republics had their own governments and independent migration policies regulating the influx of workers from India, Asia and elsewhere in Africa.\n\nOver the course of the 19th century, tension increased between the British Empire and these autonomous Boer communities. The British pursued expansionist policies, annexing Natal in 1845 but recognizing the independence of the other two republics until 1877 when a Zulu insurrection threatened the Transvaal Republic. In 1880, the First Boer War erupted between Transvaal Boers and British troops, resulting in relatively heavy losses on the British side leading to a truce in 1881. After two decades of uneasy peace between the groups, military conflict broke out again in 1899 in what would be the Second Boer War. This war significantly deteriorated the Boers' land and resources, a result largely attributable to the British's 'scorched earth' tactics. Nevertheless, the resistance had been strong enough to change the British's policy regarding the Afrikaners from suppression to concession and incorporation into the government of the colony.\n\nThroughout the two wars, the British portrayed themselves as fighting in defense of the African populations as well as for the interests of the empire. Reformist rhetoric wooed black support for the war and the British did not hesitate to utilize this resource, despite the mutual commitment to leave the blacks out of the war. Britain's decision to abandon their promises to the African population at the end of the war indicated a coming shift in the racial dynamic of South African nationality and its struggle.\n\nThe British colonial government met with the two Boer governments on 15 May 1902 in order to determine the terms of the Boer's surrender. While Britain refused to give up their annexation of the Boer republics, it did agree to repatriation, the limited protection of the Afrikaner language in the education and court system, the right to keep firearms, the right to property, exemption for land tax funding war expenditures, and to refuse the natives (blacks) political enfranchisement unless a white majority already existed (Article 8).\n\nSir Alfred Milner was the governor of the Cape at the turn of the 20th century. In reaction to the incorporation of the Boers back into the colony, Milner instated a series of attacks on the citizenship of Africans, Asians and people of mixed race. Territorial separation of whites and blacks became a principle of land ownership. It also removed blacks' right to select their own political representative in the federal legislature and instituted a government-picked politician for them. These reforms were designed by a group called the Lagden Commission. While they were rejected initially, modified versions of these reforms were later implemented by General J. B. M. Hertzog (South Africa's third prime minister). Following the Zulu rebellion in 1906, the Natal Native Code was streamlined and applied universally among African and Indian populations. In effect, this gave the Government unlimited control over these populations while revoking their suffrage. This sparked protest from both minority groups. Mohandas Gandhi's led several non-violent demonstrations against laws requiring Indians to carry finger-print passes.\n\nThe South Africa Act 1909 established the Union of South Africa under the British dominion, giving it increased autonomy from the metropole. This act unified the four provinces under one legislative body and gave suffrage to non-white groups, although its franchise policies further disempowered blacks in the Cape. Colour bars were instituted in 1911, relegating blacks to low-income occupations with little to no prospect for upward mobility. By restricting land purchase to specific reserves, the Natives Land Act, 1913 effectively forced African populations off of the land that would allow them to sustain any level of self-sufficiency, thereby making them dependent on the labour market for their livelihood.\n\nGeneral Louis Botha was appointed the prime minister in 1910. He pushed a series of racial segregationist bills targeting the African populations. The Mines and Works Act of 1911 prohibited blacks from organizing into labour union and from striking, while simultaneously reserving prime categories of work for white people. The Natives (Urban Areas) Act of 1923 imposed segregation in the residential areas of cities and reduced blacks access to urban centers in general. General Hertzog's subsequent government held these policies restricting black subjects, but made relatively little effort to increase segregating policy and focused more on creating a national (white) image. It did, however, remove Africans' limited rights to direct parliamentary suffrage in the Cape Province.\n\nThe Apartheid ideology was developed by Werner Eiselen as an alternative to the policies of racial segregation which still allowed for a multi-racial society. Apartheid was a system of relocating Africans to what were supposedly ethnically homogenous reservations and then fostering individual nationalities for each of these ten different groups. This process was accompanied by a set of acts designed to coerce black groups into this new system and maximize their separation from white society while maintaining their economic exploitation (see Apartheid Legislation in South Africa). The core of the Apartheid system was the Group Areas Act of 1950 which divided the state into race-specific partitions.\n\nThe formation of the first Afrikaner-only government in 1948 also coincided with the introduction of the Apartheid institution by which Africans were to be segregated and differentiated from the white population in all possible respects. One of the most drastic components of this ideology was the establishment of Bantu homelands to which all Africans were regulated. This forced blacks to live in \"tribal\" reservations, thereby separating them from the white populations and realigning their nationality directly to their particular reservation or \"bantustan\". Ten separate bantustans were designated, each with its own \"homogenous\" group. In 1970 the Black Homelands Citizenship Act effectively cancelled all black South African citizenship because these homelands became technically autonomous and self-governed.\n\nThe Population Registration Act 30 of 1950 required all citizens to carry identification passes that detailed their race. This limited black, Indian and Asian mobility because it restricted their access to white areas.\n\nThe Bantu Education Act of 1953 reformatted the education system to prepare the black youth for racial submission to the white population. Education was historically the jurisdiction of the Christian missionaries, but this act ceded its control to the state, who then used it to manipulate the black national identity\n\nSexual relations between races were restricted by both the Prohibition of Mixed Marriages Act (1949) and the Immorality Act (1950), illustrating the social stigmas and fears surrounding black sexuality.\n\nWith significant pressure from both internal and external sources, the Apartheid regime was dismantled by the National Party (NP) in the early 1990s. Serious negotiations between the National Party, the African National Congress (ANC) and the Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) took place in an effort to produce a new democratic system that perpetuated racial equality but did not leave the whites dangerously vulnerable to resentment-fueled discrimination or violence.\n\nFollowing the extension of universal suffrage and the subsequent election of the first ANC government, Parliament developed a new constitution and bill of rights. The first chapter of this constitution establishes the South African commitment to democratic values, human rights and rule of law. The second chapter is the Bill of Rights and it describes the democratic freedoms that the state must uphold. This includes the right to education in each of South Africa's official languages, the right to a healthy living environment, as well as the right to free movement and residence.\n\nSouth African citizenship has primarily been founded on conceptions of racial entitlement and lawful residence. The development of migration restrictions attached to different racial groups in the Cape and the Boer Republics provided the precursor to South African citizenship: Union nationality. The immigration laws reacting to the influx of Asian in the early 20th century provided the unidirectional basis of South African citizenship. This identification method developed out of the Transvaal immigration bureaucracy became to standard throughout the other republics after the unification in 1909. The restrictive nature of union nationality led to the establishment of a categorical citizenship that lacked any positive rights.\n\nThe Bill of Rights created in 1996 established the modern characteristics of South African citizenship. It utilizes a combination of the principles of \"jus soli\" and \"jus sanguinis\". Children born in South Africa to parents who are both permanent residents (but not citizens) or to one parent who is a citizen will obtain citizenship via \"jus soli\". Children born outside the country to at least one citizen-parent can obtain citizenship if the South African population authorities are properly notified about the birth. For many individuals born to non-permanent residents can apply for South African citizenship through the naturalization process which has eight primary requirements:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "718279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=718279", "title": "Home Taping Is Killing Music", "text": "Home Taping Is Killing Music\n\n\"Home Taping Is Killing Music\" was the slogan of a 1980s anti-copyright infringement propaganda campaign by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), a British music industry trade group. With the rise in cassette recorder popularity, the BPI feared that the ability of private citizens to record music from the radio onto cassettes would cause a decline in record sales. The logo, consisting of a Jolly Roger formed from the silhouette of a Compact Cassette, also included the words \"And It's Illegal\".\n\nIn the 2000s, the campaign experienced a revival, as the Norwegian branch of IFPI (International Federation of the Phonographic Industry) launched a new campaign named Piracy Kills Music. The campaign has exactly the same message, same name and similar logos. The campaign won the Norwegian 2008 Gulltaggen award for \"Best Internet Strategy\" with much controversy.\n\nAn early proponent of home taping was Malcolm McLaren, who was at the time managing the British new wave band Bow Wow Wow. In 1980, the band released their cassette single \"C·30 C·60 C·90 Go\" on cassette that featured a blank B-side on which the buyer could record their own music. The band's record label, EMI, dropped the group shortly afterwards because the single allegedly promoted home taping.\n\nThe slogan was often parodied, one example being the addendum \"and it's about time too!\", used by Dutch anarcho-punk band The Ex. Some fanzines changed the words to \"Home taping is killing the music industry\" and added the words \"...so be sure to do your part!\" below the logo. Another example was the early 1980s counter-slogan \"Home Taping is Skill in Music\", referring to early mixtapes, a precursor to sampling and remixes. The cassette & crossbones image was displayed briefly as a backdrop in the \"Time Out For Fun\" video by the band Devo from their 1982 album, \"Oh, No! It's Devo\". Venom's 1982 album \"Black Metal\" used the logo with the words \"Home Taping Is Killing Music; So Are Venom\". The phrase \"Home-Taping Is Making Music\" appears on the back cover of Peter Principle's self-produced 1988 album \"Tone Poems\". The American punk band Rocket from the Crypt sold T-shirts with the tape and bones and the words \"Home Taping Is Killing the Music Industry: Killing Ain't Wrong.\" Sonic Youth has T-shirts with the cassette and \"Sonic Youth\" written under it. The cover of Billy Bragg's album \"Workers Playtime\" featured a notice reading \"Capitalism is killing music - pay no more than £4.99 for this record\". Mitch Benn also comments \"Home taping isn't killing music, music's dying of natural causes\" in the song \"Steal This Song\" on the album \"Radioface\".\nIn Poland during the mid-1980s, some (PRONIT label) vinyl pressings of certain albums contained a parody stamp labeled \"Home taping... is much fun\".\n\nOne cassette version of the Dead Kennedys e.p. \"In God We Trust Inc.\" had a blank side, printed with the message \"Home taping is killing record industry profits! We left this side blank so you can help.\"\n\nDuring the 1980s, rock group The Beat sold blank cassette tapes as merchandise at their live shows. The band frequently encouraged fans and concert patrons to record their live performances instead of illegally copying their studio albums. The group's leader Paul Collins, believed this practice would satisfy a need for instant gratification while preventing the sales of their albums from diminishing. \n\nLa Route du Rock biannual music festival in France uses the tape image as part of the event's logo.\nMore recently, the pro-p2p file sharing group Downhill Battle has used the slogan \"Home Taping Is Killing the Music Industry, and It's Fun\" on T-shirts, and the BitTorrent website \"The Pirate Bay\" uses the logo of a pirate ship whose sails bear the \"tape and bones.\" Additionally the Pirate Party UK has a version of the tape and bones with the logo \"copyright is killing music - and it's legal\" and the Swedish Piratbyrån is using the same tape and bones as their logo.\n\nSimilar rhetoric has continued; in 1982 Jack Valenti famously compared the VCR and its anticipated effect on the movie industry to the Boston Strangler, and in 2005 Mitch Bainwol of the RIAA claimed that CD burning is hurting music sales.\n\nIn March 2010, TalkTalk, as part of its campaign against the UK Government's filesharing proposals, created a spoof video entitled \"Home Taping is Killing Music\". The song was written and performed by singer/songwriter Dan Bull and featured lookalikes of Madonna, George Michael and Adam Ant lip-synching to the song.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "489773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489773", "title": "Indirect effect", "text": "Indirect effect\n\nIndirect effect is a principle of European Union (EU) law, whereby national courts of the member states of the EU are required to interpret national law in line with provisions of EU law. The principle of indirect effect contrasts with the principle of direct effect, which, under certain conditions, allows individuals to invoke the EU law itself before national courts.\n\nIndirect effect arises from the failure of a member state to implement a directiveeither correctly or at allbut where direct effect cannot apply because the party against whom the directive is sought to be enforced is a private entity or otherwise fails to meet the conditions which would give the directive direct effect. In \"Von Colson and Kamann v Land Nordrhein-Westfalen\", the ECJ ruled that national courts should interpret national law in line with the directive, \"in so far as it is given discretion to do so under national law\". While \"Von Colson\" dealt with a situation where a member state had failed to implement a directive correctly, in \"Marleasing v La Comercial Internacional de Alimentacion\" the ECJ extended indirect effect to situations where the member state concerned had not implemented the directive at all.\n\nWhile indirect effect is of great importance especially in relation to directives, recommendations and opinions could have indirect effect as well. Recommendations and opinions have no binding force, like directives have. However, in \"Grimaldi v Fonds des Maladies Professionnelles\" the ECJ has ruled that since recommendations and opinions must have some legal effect, they should be taken into consideration when dealing with measures that the two were supposed to supplement.\n\n"}
{"id": "25451509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25451509", "title": "Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Electric Manufacturing Co.", "text": "Klaxon Co. v. Stentor Electric Manufacturing Co.\n\nKlaxon Company v. Stentor Electric Manufacturing Company, 313 U.S. 487 (1941), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court applied the choice-of-law principles of \"Erie Railroad v. Tompkins\" to conflicts between laws of different states for cases sitting in federal court on diversity jurisdiction. The court held that a federal court sitting in diversity must apply the choice-of-law doctrine of the forum state to choose between the forum state's law and the other state's law (as distinguished from the federal choice-of-law doctrines which had been used before \"Erie\").\n\n"}
{"id": "28382238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28382238", "title": "Knowing receipt", "text": "Knowing receipt\n\nKnowing receipt is an English trusts law doctrine for imposing liability on people who receive property that belonged to a trust, or was held by a fiduciary, and knew that it been given to them in breach of trust. To be liable for knowing receipt, the claimant must show, first, a disposal of his trust assets in breach of fiduciary duty; second, the beneficial receipt by the defendant of assets which are traceable as representing the assets of the claimant; and third, knowledge on the part of the defendant that the assets he received are traceable to a breach of fiduciary duty. \n\n\"Knowing receipt\" is also sometimes called \"unconscionable receipt\" because of its theoretical foundation in the doctrine of unconscionability. The contrary view is that knowing receipt is, or ought to be, part of a broader doctrine of ignorance triggering a claim for unjust enrichment. On this view, anyone who receive property that was given away in breach of trust has a strict duty to repay the value, unless they have committed a wrong, or have changed their position after the receipt. This model suggests that knowledge is not exclusively relevant for liability.\n\nThe underlying principle of knowing receipt is beneficial receipt of D is unjust enrichment at the expense of the rightful owner. In \"Royal Brunei Airlines Sdn Bhd v Tan\", knowing receipt is characterized as restitution-based liability (as opposed to accessory liability).\n\nUnder knowing receipt, the onus is on the claimant beneficiary to establish recipient’s knowledge. The degree of knowledge required has been a controversial issue and there are numerous lines of authority on it. For example in some cases it was held that Baden category 1 to 3 knowledge, i.e. dishonesty is needed, or in some cases it was held that all 5 categories would suffice, i.e. either dishonesty or negligence. \n\nIn \"Belmont Finance Corp Ltd v Williams Furniture (No 2)\" it was held thatfraud/dishonesty not required, i.e. negligence would suffice. In \"El Ajou v Dollar Land Holdings plc\" it was held that constructive knowledge was sufficient; Though in \"Polly Peck Int’l plc v Nadir (No 2)\" Scott LJ agreed that courts are always reluctant to extend constructive notice doctrine to circumstances when money is paid in ordinary course of business.\n\nAt last, in \"BCCI (Overseas) Ltd v Akindele\" it was held that the degree of knowledge for knowing receipt is knowledge that makes it unconscionable for recipient to retain benefit of receipt. It was also held that the five categories of knowledge in Baden is not useful.\n\n"}
{"id": "6333492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6333492", "title": "Lexmark International, Inc. v. Static Control Components, Inc.", "text": "Lexmark International, Inc. v. Static Control Components, Inc.\n\nLexmark International, Inc. v. Static Control Components, Inc., is an American legal case involving the computer printer company Lexmark, which had designed an authentication system using a microcontroller so that only authorized toner cartridges could be used. The resulting litigation (described by Justice Scalia in 2014 as \"sprawling\", and by others as having the potential to go on as long as \"Jarndyce v. Jarndyce\") has resulted in significant decisions affecting United States intellectual property and trademark law.\n\nIn separate rulings in 2004 and 2012, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ruled that:\n\n\nThe Supreme Court's 2014 ruling also affects statutory interpretation in the area of standing in pursuing lawsuits on statutory grounds in a wide variety of areas in federal court.\n\nLexmark is a large manufacturer of laser and inkjet printers, and Static Control Components (SCC) is a company that makes \"a wide range of technology products, including microchips that it sells to third-party companies for use in remanufactured toner cartridges.\" \n\nIn an effort to control and reduce the refilling and redistribution of toner cartridges, Lexmark began distributing two distinct varieties of its toner cartridges. Under its Prebate Program (now known as the Lexmark Return Program), through a shrinkwrap license, Lexmark sold certain printer cartridges at a discount (as much as $50 less) to customers who agreed to \"use the cartridge only once and return it only to Lexmark for remanufacturing or recycling\". Lexmark's \"Non-Prebate\" cartridges could be refilled by the user without restrictions and were sold without any discount.\n\nLexmark touted the Prebate Program as a benefit to the environment and to their customers, since it would allow customers to get cheaper cartridges, and the benefit to Lexmark was that it could keep empty cartridges out of the hands of competing rechargers. Many users purchased such cartridges under the stated conditions.\n\nTo enforce this agreement, Lexmark cartridges included a computer chip that included a 55-byte computer program (the \"Toner Loading Program\") which communicated with a \"Printer Engine Program\" built into the printer. The program calculated the amount of toner used during printing: when the calculations indicated that the original supply of Lexmark toner should be exhausted, the printer would stop functioning, even if the cartridge had been refilled. In addition, if the chip did not perform an encrypted authentication sequence, or if the Toner Loading Program on the chip did not have a checksum matching exactly a value stored elsewhere on the chip, the printer would not use the cartridge.\n\nIn 2002, SCC developed its own computer chip that would duplicate the 'handshake' used by the Lexmark chip, and that also included a verbatim copy of the Toner Loading Program, which SCC claimed was necessary to allow the printer to function. A Prebate cartridge could successfully be refilled if Lexmark's chip on the cartridge was replaced with the SCC chip. SCC began selling its \"Smartek\" chips to toner cartridge rechargers.\n\nOn December 30, 2002, Lexmark sued SCC in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Kentucky. The suit claimed that SCC had:\n\n\nOn March 3, 2003, Judge Karl S. Forester granted a preliminary injunction to Lexmark, blocking SCC from distributing its cartridge chips. The ruling was seen to be controversial.\n\nOn the copyright claim, the court found that:\n\n\nOn the DMCA claims, the court found that the SCC microchip circumvented Lexmark's authentication sequence, and that the reverse engineering exception to the DMCA did not apply, because it only covers the \"independent creation\" of new programs that must interoperate with existing ones, and SCC did not create any new program.\n\nSCC appealed the district court's ruling to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. As is usual for federal appeals in the United States, a three judge panel heard the appeal– for this matter, the panel consisted of appellate judges Gilbert S. Merritt and Jeffrey S. Sutton, and John Feikens (a district court judge temporarily assisting the appeals court). On October 26, 2004, the judges issued their ruling, in which all three judges wrote separate opinions.\n\nIn the majority opinion, Judge Sutton (with Judge Merritt agreeing) reversed the lower court's ruling and vacated the temporary injunction, holding that Lexmark was unlikely to succeed in its case. The case was remanded to the district court for further proceedings consistent with the opinion.\n\nOn the copyright claim, the court noted that unlike patents, copyright protection cannot be applied to ideas, but only to particular, creative expressions of ideas. Distinguishing between an unprotectable idea and a protectable creative expression is difficult in the context of computer programs; even though it may be possible to express the same idea in many different programs, \"practical realities\"—hardware and software constraints, design standards, industry practices, etc.—may make different expressions impractical. \"Lock-out\" codes—codes that must be performed in a certain way in order to bypass a security system—are generally considered functional rather than creative, and thus unprotectable.\n\nWith these principles in mind, it was held that the district court had erred in three ways:\n\nOn the DMCA claims, the majority first considered Lexmark's claim that the SCC chip circumvented the access controls on the Printer Engine Program. It held that Lexmark's authentication sequence did not \"control access\" to the program; rather, the purchase of the printer itself allowed access to the program:\n\nLikewise, the majority opinion held that anyone purchasing a printer and toner cartridge could read the Toner Loading Program from the printer; so SCC did not circumvent an access control on the Toner Loading Program either.\n\nThe court also rejected the district court's conclusion that the interoperability defense did not apply. Since SCC had offered testimony that its chips did indeed contain independently-created programs in addition to Lexmark's Toner Loading Program, the Toner Loading Program could be seen as necessary to allow interoperation between SCC's own programs and the Lexmark printer.\n\nIn a concurring opinion, Judge Merritt agreed with Judge Sutton on the outcome of this particular case, but also indicated that he would go farther:\n\nHe opined that even if the programs involved were more complex (and thus more deserving of copyright protection), the key question would be the purpose of the circumvention technology. Under his proposed framework, if a third party manufacturer's use of a circumvention technology was intended only to allow its products to interoperate with another manufacturer's—and not to gain any independent benefit from the functionality of the code being copied—then that circumvention would be permissible.\n\nJudge Feikens also wrote an opinion, agreeing with many of the majority opinion's results (though sometimes for different reasons), but disagreeing with its conclusion on the Toner Loading Program.\n\nConcerning the copyrightability of the Toner Loading Program, he found that the record supported Lexmark's claim that the program could have been implemented in any number of ways, and therefore Lexmark's implementation was creative and copyrightable. Agreeing that the record was inadequate for the district court to conclude that the Toner Loading Program was a \"lock-out code\", he noted that Lexmark's expert had testified that the entire Toner Loading Program process could be turned off by flipping a single bit in the chip's code, and that it should have been possible for SCC to discover this; so copying the program may not have been practically necessary too.\n\nOn the DMCA counts, Feikens agreed that Lexmark had not established a violation with regards to the Toner Loading Program, but for a very different reason than that found by the majority opinion. He noted that SCC had testified that it had not even been aware that the Toner Loading Program existed; it had copied the data on the Lexmark printer chip (including the Toner Loading Program) purely in an attempt to bypass the protection on the Printer Engine Program. Since the DMCA requires that an infringer \"knowingly\" circumvent access controls on the protected program, SCC could not have knowingly circumvented protections on a program it did not know existed. With regards to the Printer Engine Program, he agreed with the majority opinion, but also noted in his belief that the consumer had acquired the rights to access this program by purchasing the printer, and therefore the DMCA would not apply to attempts to access it.\n\nLexmark filed a request for the full Sixth Circuit to hear the case \"en banc\". The Sixth Circuit rejected this request in February 2005.\n\nRule 13 of the United States Supreme Court Rules of Procedure requires the losing party in a case before a court of appeals to file a petition for a writ of certiorari within 90 days from the date the court of appeals enters its judgment, or from the date of the denial of a petition for rehearing in the court of appeals. The Sixth Circuit's judgment became final for all purposes when the 90-day period expired without Lexmark filing a cert petition.\n\nThe Sixth Circuit's decision is noteworthy for at least two reasons:\n\n\n\"Lexmark 2004\" is also consistent with subsequent jurisprudence in the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in \"The Chamberlain Group, Inc. v. Skylink Technologies, Inc.\", and therefore emphasizes that the DMCA was intended to create a new type of liability not a property right over durable goods incorporating copyrighted material.\n\nBefore the Sixth Circuit's ruling, Static Control initiated a separate action in 2004 seeking declaratory judgment under federal copyright laws and the DMCA that its newly modified chips did not infringe Lexmark's copyrights, and Lexmark counterclaimed raising patent infringement, DMCA violations, and tort claims, and added three remanufacturers as third-party defendants.\n\nOn remand, Lexmark successfully moved to dismiss all of Static Control's counterclaims. During the course of the proceedings, the court ruled that:\n\n\nTherefore, the trial's issues consisted only of Lexmark's claim of induced patent infringement against Static Control and Static Control's defense of patent misuse. The district judge Gregory Frederick Van Tatenhove instructed the jury that its findings on patent misuse would be advisory; the jury held that Static Control did not induce patent infringement and advised that Lexmark misused its patents. Lexmark renewed its earlier request for a judgment as a matter of law and also filed a motion for a retrial on its patent inducement claim, both of which the district court denied. Both parties timely appealed.\n\nIn a unanimous ruling, the district court's findings were affirmed, except for its dismissal of Static Control's counterclaims under the Lanham Act and North Carolina state law. These were reversed and remanded for further consideration.\n\nIn particular, it was held:\n\n\nThe ruling also let stand the district court's ruling of the impact of \"Quanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Electronics, Inc.\" on the exhaustion doctrine in the area of patent law. By finding that the sale of patented goods, even when subject to valid license restrictions, exhausts patent rights, it essentially gives \"Quanta\" a broad interpretation, which threatens to render unenforceable through patent law differential licensing schemes that attempt to distinguish separate fields of use for a patented item. However, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit's ruling in \"Lexmark Int'l, Inc. v. Impression Prods., Inc.\"which is currently before the Supreme Courthas kept the issue alive.\n\nThe Circuit Court's ruling with respect to standing under the Lanham Act was appealed by Lexmark to the Supreme Court of the United States, on which certiorari was granted on June 3, 2013. The case was heard on December 3, 2013, and the question presented to the Court was:\n\nLexmark argued in favour of the \"AGC\" test, while SCC argued that the appropriate test should actually be that of the \"zone of interests\" protected by the statute that has been applied in cases involving the Administrative Procedure Act, the Endangered Species Act, and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act. At the hearing, it appeared that Lexmark's submission received more intensive examination than SCC's.\n\nOn March 25, 2014, the US Supreme Court unanimously affirmed the Sixth Circuit's holding that Static Control did have standing to sue under the Lanham Act.\n\nThe Court developed a new test for assessing standing in false advertising, rejecting the existing tests, including the Sixth Circuit's \"reasonable interest test\". In that regard, the approach adopted by Scalia J. consists of several steps:\n\n\nIn discussing the scope of proximate cause, Scalia noted:\n\nThe previous tests adopted by the various Circuit Courts were dismissed as being problematical on several grounds:\n\nThe Court's ruling was described as being \"a \"tour de force\" treatment of statutory standing,\" and being \"certain to earn reprinting in casebooks and citations in briefs for decades to come.\" It was seen to have greater scope than what was directly related to the case at hand:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34716082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34716082", "title": "Liber Horn", "text": "Liber Horn\n\nLiber Horn is a book completed in 1311 by Andrew Horn. The National Archives (the official archive of the UK government) describes it as \"a compilation of charters, statutes and customs\". It is thought to have been a compilation of two separate books: \"De Veteribus Legibus Angliae\" and \"De Statutes.\" The \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\" describes it as \"the most comprehensive of all statute collections\". Portions of \"Liber Horn\" were reproduced in \"Statutes of the Realm\", Volume 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "9713907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9713907", "title": "Libraries Offences Act 1898", "text": "Libraries Offences Act 1898\n\nThe Libraries Offences Act 1898 (61 & 62 Vict c 52) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, applying in England and Wales.\n\nIt provided that certain behaviour in libraries and reading-rooms were considered an offence, liable on summary conviction to a fine of up to forty shillings. The Act extended to any public library established under the Public Libraries Act 1892, as well as to a library or reading-room maintained by any Industrial or Provident Society, any Friendly Society, or any registered trades union. The Act prohibited, where it was \"to the annoyance or disturbance\" of any other user - disorderly behaviour, the use of obscene or abusive language, gambling or betting, and persistently remaining within the library beyond its stated closing hours. It applied only to England and Wales.\n\nThe Act is still in force, though to a limited degree; it no longer extends to public libraries, which are dealt with under the Public Libraries and Museums Act 1964, and as such it only applies to libraries maintained by trade unions or industrial, provident or friendly societies. The forty-shilling fine has now been replaced by a fine of up to level 1 on the standard scale.\n"}
{"id": "52730745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52730745", "title": "List of Labour Party (UK) breakaway parties", "text": "List of Labour Party (UK) breakaway parties\n\nSince the founding of the Labour Party in 1900, it has seen a steady number of splits and breakaway factions. Some of the breakaway organisations have thrived as independent parties, some have become defunct, while others have merged back with the parent party or other political parties\n"}
{"id": "275990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275990", "title": "Military police", "text": "Military police\n\nMilitary police (MP) are law enforcement agencies connected with, or part of, the military of a state.\n\nIn different countries it may refer to:\n\n\nThe status of military police is usually prominently displayed on the helmet and/or on an armband, brassard, or arm or shoulder flash. In the Second World War, the military police of the German Army still used a metal gorget as an emblem.\n\nNaval police members are sometimes called \"masters-at-arms\" and shore patrol.\n\n\"Military police\" is a law enforcement agency which follows the Brazilian military rules, responsible for Preventive police of the civilian population. Each state has its own Military Police department similar to a Gendarmerie.\n\nTraditional Provost duties are held by different corps within each branch of the Brazilian Armed Forces: Army Police () for the Army, Navy Police () for the Navy, and Air Force Police () for the Air Force.\n\nThe Canadian Forces Military Police (CF MP) contribute to the effectiveness and readiness of the Canadian Forces (CF) and the Department of National Defence (DND) through the provision of professional police, security and operational support services worldwide.\n\nCFMP are classified as Peace Officers in the Criminal Code, which gives them the same powers as civilian law enforcement personnel to enforce Acts of Parliament on or in relation to DND property or assets anywhere in the world. They have the power to arrest anyone who is subject to the Code of Service Discipline (CSD), regardless of position or rank under the National Defence Act (NDA). MP have the power to arrest and charge non-CSD bound civilians only in cases where a crime is committed on or in relation to DND property or assets, or at the request of the Minister of Public Safety, Commissioner of the Correctional Service of Canada or Commissioner of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Although MP jurisdiction is only on DND property across Canada and throughout the world, any civilian accessing these areas falls under MP jurisdiction and are dealt with in the same manner as any civilian policing agency. If a crime is committed on or in relation to DND property or assets, MP have the power to arrest and charge the offender, military or civilian, under the Criminal Code. It is important to note though that the purpose of the CFMP is not to replace the job of a civilian police officer, but rather to support the Canadian Forces through security and policing services. MP also have the power to enforce the Provincial Highway Traffic Acts on all military bases in Canada pursuant to the Government Property Traffic Regulations (GPTR).\n\nIn Colombia, MPs (Policia Militar in Spanish) are very common. They can be seen guarding closed roads, museums, embassies, government buildings and airports. In the National Army of Colombia they are assigned to the 37 Military Police Battalions, wearing green uniforms with the military police helmet. A Naval Police battalion is in service in the Colombian Marine Infantry. MP units also provide military bands and drum and bugle corps for ceremonial events.\n\nEach branch of the Armed Forces of the United States maintains its own police force. The U.S. Coast Guard, which in itself is a law enforcement agency, uses a mixture of enlisted rates and ranks qualified as law enforcement officers to patrol, investigate crimes, and enforce laws and regulations on large bases and training centers through the United States Coast Guard Police. The Coast Guard also uses the Coast Guard Investigative Service, a mixture of civilian, enlisted, reservists, and officers who are qualified and duly sworn federal law enforcement officers separate from the normal Coast Guard chain of command. CGIS primarily investigates and charges those in its own population with serious crimes, such as rape, assault or forgery, that fall under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.\n\nThe following is a list of military police forces:\n\n\n\nEach service also maintains uniformed civilian police departments. They are referred to as Department of Defense Police (DoD Police). These police fall under each directorate they work for within the United States Department of Defense, for example: DoD Army or DoD Navy Police. The Department of the Air Force Police operate under the Air Provost Marshal. The police officers' duties are similar to those of local civilian police officers. They enforce the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), federal and state laws, and the regulations of their particular installation.\n\nFelony level criminal investigations in the United States Armed Forces are carried out by separate agencies:\n\n\nThe Defense Criminal Investigative Service (DCIS) is a civilian agency that answers directly to the DOD as well as the Pentagon Force Protection Agency (PFPA).\n\nThe United States Constabulary was a gendarmerie force used to secure and patrol the American Zone of West Germany immediately after World War II.\n\nMP's in the U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps, in addition to their roles as enforcers of law and order on military installations, fulfill a number of combat roles as well. Military Police in Afghanistan and Iraq have been widely employed for such duties as convoy security, mounted and dismounted patrols, maritime expeditionary warfare, Military Working Dog operations, security details for senior officers, and detainee handling. Army MPs, Navy MAs, Navy Sailors who possess the Navy Enlisted Classification (NEC) Code 2008 and 9575, Navy Sailors who have completed the Individual Augmentee (IA) training for Detention Operations, and Air Force Security Forces have been widely used as prison guards in detainee facilities, whereas Marine Corps MPs focus on securing and processing detainees before passing them on to Army holding facilities.\n\nSince U.S. military police soldiers are members of the armed forces, they are prohibited from exercising domestic law enforcement powers under the Posse Comitatus Act, a federal law passed in 1878. MPs may enforce certain limited powers, such as traffic stops, on access roads and other federal property not necessarily within the boundaries of their military base or installation. When combined, the Posse Comitatus Act and Insurrection Act place significant limits on presidential power to use the military in a law enforcement capacity.\nThe only military forces exempt from the act are the United States Coast Guard, as its mission includes maritime law enforcement duties; and Army and Air National Guard units while under state authority. Army and Air National Guard troops are not exempt from Posse Comitatus while they are serving under federal Title 10 orders.\n\nThe Gendarmerie, or \"Military Police\", known as the Royal Gendarmerie of Cambodia is a paramilitary unit with about 7,000 soldiers deployed in all provinces. It is headquartered in Phnom Penh. The unit's chain of command is through the Royal Cambodian Armed Forces High Command.\n\nThe Royal Gendarmerie of Cambodia is deployed in every province and cities to keep the law and order. Military police in Cambodia play an important role in Cambodia society, keeping law and order in cities along with the National Police.\n\nThe Corps of Military Police (CMP) is the military police of the Indian Army. In addition, the CMP is trained to handle prisoners of war and to regulate traffic, as well as to handle basic telecommunication equipment such as telephone exchanges. They can be identified by their red berets, white lanyards and belts, and they also wear a black brassard with the letters \"MP\" imprinted in red.\n\nInternal policing duties in a regiment (or a station) are handled by the Regimental Police, who are soldiers of the unit who are assigned to policing tasks for a short period of time. They are essentially used to regulate traffic, and can be identified by a black brassard with the letters \"RP\" embossed in gold or white.\n\nThe Indian Air Force is policed by the Indian Air Force Police. They can be identified by their white peaked caps, white lanyards and belts (with a pistol holster). They used to wear a black brassard with the letters \"IAF(P)\" imprinted in red, until 2013. Now Indian Air Force Provost and Security officers and IAF(P) wear an arm badge.\n\nThe Indian Navy has the Navy Police, and they can be identified by a black brassard with the letters \"NP\" in gold, with the state emblem placed in between the N and the P.\n\nIn Indonesia, the military police are known as \"Korps Polisi Militer\" (CPM) or simply \"Polisi Militer\" (PM). They are the police of the military/armed forces organization in charge of enforcing discipline and the maintenance of law and order in the military environment and for military purposes. They serve as policing units in the armed forces. The military police of Indonesia also perform duties in the area of law enforcement (including investigation of crime) involving members of the military (even in certain cases that may also involve the regular civilian police, especially if the case involves a civilian), installation of security, escort protection of senior military officers and/or important government officials such as the President and Vice President, setting and supervising prisoners of war, controlling custody of military prisoners, managing military traffic control and marking and managing routes and resupply routes for military and civilian purposes. Indonesian Military Police are identifiable with their blue berets (dragged to the left) and also wear white helmet printed PM and dark blue brassard worn on their upper left sleeve printed PM.\n\nThere are 3 military police corps in Indonesia, which are \"POM-AD\" (\"Polisi Militer Angkatan Darat\") for policing in the army, \"POM-AL\" (\"Polisi Militer Angkatan Laut\") for policing in the navy, and \"POM-AU\" (\"Polisi Militer Angkatan Udara\") for policing in the air force.\n\nProvosts or \"Provos\" in Indonesia, shortened (\"PROV\"), secures, supervises and maintains discipline in a battalion or a regimental headquarter of the military, which is specifically different from the military police. Its area of responsibility for enforcing discipline and order is only limited to inside the military complex which it is given authority, and not beyond. It is also known as the Regimental Police in commonwealth countries. The Indonesian Provosts soldiers are usually posted at the entrances of a military base and are identifiable with their dark blue brassard printed PROV worn on their upper left sleeve.\n\nThe Israeli Military Police Corps (\"Kheil HaMishtara HaTzva'it\") is the military police/provost of the Israel Defense Forces. It also helps monitor Israeli military prisons. At times of emergency, enemy detainees are held and sorted by the military police.\n\nThe corps has very little civilian jurisdiction and for that reason works in conjunction with the Israeli Police when civilians are involved. The Israel Border Police is Israel's Gendarmerie equivalent.\n\nDuring World War II, the \"Kempeitai\" were the military police of the Imperial Japanese Army and the \"Tokkeitai\" were the military police of the Imperial Japanese Navy. They also performed intelligence and secret police functions and were active in Japan and its occupied territories. They were at the forefront of committing Japanese war crime against Asian neighbors.\n\nToday's Japan Self-Defense Forces maintain military police units called the Keimutai ().\n\nThe \"Kor Polis Tentera DiRaja\" (Royal Military Police Corps) performs military police duties in the Malaysian Army. Apart from enforcing discipline and conduct of members of the Army, the Corps oversees security of designated Army installations, performs escort and ceremonial duties, and assists civil law enforcement authorities. The \"Kor Polis Tentera\" is also tasked with crime prevention and investigating criminal activities on Army property or by military personnel.\nWith its roots in the British Royal Military Police, members of the \"Kor Polis Tentera DiRaja\" also wear the distinctive red peaked cap, white lanyard and belt, as well as a black brassard with the letters \"PT\" imprinted. PT stands for \"Polis Tentera\", the Malay words for \"Military Police\". Military police on traffic duty wear armbands sporting the letters \"MP\" in red.\n\nSince the establishment and inception of the Pakistan Armed Forces, they have maintained their own military police. The Pakistan Army received its share of Muslim personnel from the former Royal Indian Military Police, forming the Pakistan Army Military Police or \"MP\". Later, the Pakistan Navy established the \"naval police\" with its centre commissioned at \"PNS Nighaban\", and the Pakistan Air Force later established the PAF Police to maintain order.\n\nThe Pakistan Navy's Naval Police can be identified by their red armbands with the letters \"NP\" written in white. They are headquartered at PNS Qasim in Karachi.\n\nThe Pakistan Army's military police is known as the Pakistan Army Corps of Military Police. They can be identified by their red armbands, white cross belts and white combat helmets with the letters \"MP\", written in white.\n\nThe Pakistan Air Force established its own military police, known as the \"Pakistan Air Force Police\" commonly referred to as Provost. The PAF Police can be identified by their red armlets, white cross belts and white combat helmets with \"PAF Police\" written in red.\n\nThe MP, NP and the PAF Police do not exercise any jurisdiction over civilians, nor can the civil courts interfere in the operations of the Military Police. In some cases, the Military Police Corps have worked with civilian police agencies if civilians are involved.\n\nThe Armed Forces of the Philippines currently maintains its own military police distinct from the nation's civilian force, reporting to the Chief of Staff through the service commanding generals.\n\nThe American-established (now defunct) Philippine Constabulary (PC) was also known as the \"Military Police Command\". Pursuant to Republic Act 6975 (the DILG Reorganization Act of 1991), the PC and the Integrated National Police merged to form the civilian Philippine National Police, and was placed under the Department of Interior and Local Government.\n\n The Saudi Arabian military police are a small subset of the national police and are charged mainly with keeping peace in areas with high levels of aggression and tension. They wear red berets and camouflaged uniform.\n\nEach branch of the Sri Lankan Armed Forces has its own military police/Provost section. The Sri Lanka Army is policed by the Sri Lanka Corps of Military Police and by Regimental Police, who belong to each individual regiments or corps.\n\nThe Military Police force carries out the following missions:\n\n\nThe Sri Lanka Navy is policed by the Provost Branch. The Sri Lanka Air Force is policed by the Air Force Police (AFP).\n\nIn Singapore, the Singapore Armed Forces Military Police Command serves as the law enforcement agency of the Singapore Armed Forces. The Command is headed by a colonel, otherwise also known as the Provost Marshal. Its sub-units included the Military Police Enforcement Unit (including Special Investigations Branch and ceremonial and drill components), the Detention Barracks (DB), The 1st Provost Bn, MP Training School and the Security Support Forces (including Military working Dog Wing, Close Protection and Security Ops Unit). The command also collaborates closely with the Singapore Police Force in terms of policing work duties, investigations, etc.\n\nThe ROCMP is responsible for enforcing military law, maintaining military discipline, providing backup for the civilian police force or serving as combat troops during times of emergency, providing security for certain government buildings, including the Presidential Building in Taipei City, as well as performing counter-terrorism and VIP protection operations. The ROCMP are also charged with the defense of the capital Taipei.\n\nIn Thailand, each branch of the armed forces has its own military police force. The Royal Thai Navy has the \"สารวัตรทหารเรือ\" (Naval Military Police), the Royal Thai Army has the \"สารวัตรทหาร\" (Army Military Police), and the Royal Thai Air Force has the \"สารวัตรทหารอากาศ\" (Air Force Military Police).\n\nThe duties of the Air Military Police Department (\"กรมทหารสารวัตรทหารอากาศ\") are peacekeeping, security, regulating traffic discipline within Air Force installations and housing areas, apprehending deserters, escorting VIPs and investigating crimes under the authority of the Military Court. These investigations include prisoners of war, enemy aliens, refugees and displaced officers within the Air Force and designated areas. It is under supervision of the Commander of the Air Military Police Department.\n\nThere is one active Air MP Battalion called the Battalion of Military Air Police (\"กองพันทหารสารวัตรทหารอากาศ\"). The Air Military Police Department is one unit under the supervision of the Office of Don Muang RTAF Base Commander (\"สำนักงานผู้บังคับทหารอากาศดอนเมือง\").\n\nIn Vietnam, the 144th Brigade of Military Guard (Kiểm soát Quân sự) is under the command of the General Staff of the Vietnam People's Army. Vietnam Military Guard is responsible for guarding and protecting the Presidential Palace, government offices and army offices. Vietnam Military Surveillance (Kiểm soát Quân sự) is also under the command of the General Staff and responsible for supervising military laws on soldiers and officers\n\nMilitary Police Command (Kommando Militärstreife & Militärpolizei\" – Kdo MilStrf&MP\")\nThe Austrian Military Police Command, located in Vienna, consists of the following elements\n\nThe Military Police have three locations in Austria. The Military Police Command and one MP Co. are located in Vienna. One MP Co. is in Graz and one in Salzburg.\n\nThe Military Police is tasked with law enforcement and the protection of the forces, military events and Armed Forces property. The increasing number of international operations in which Austrian soldiers participate and new threat scenarios hugely expand the spectrum of tasks. In addition to its traditional domestic tasks, the Military Police now also fulfill tasks in international operations. In Austria the Military Police is only tasked with internal Armed Forces matters. Abroad, they are tasked with extensive assignments. It closes the security gap between a conflict that has ended and a functioning society. A large number of experienced specialists and modern equipment are required to meet these demanding tasks.\n\nNational tasks include:\n\nInternational tasks include:\n\nce Service is Brigadier General Borislav Sertov.\n\nThe Belgian Army's Military Police Group (\"Groupe Police Militaire\" in French, \"Groep Militaire Politie\" in Dutch) performs military police duties on behalf of all four components of the Belgian military. The group is headed by a colonel and has 188 members in five MP detachments. Until 1995, the Belgian Rijkswacht/Gendarmerie was, besides its civilian policing tasks, responsible for the nation's Military Police duties.\n\nThe Military Police Group staff is located in the Queen Elizabeth Barracks in the Brussels suburb of Evere. Alpha Detachment located at Evere covers the province of Flemish Brabant and the capital, Brussels. Bravo Detachment covers the Walloon Brabant, Hainaut and Namur areas and is located at Nivelles. Charlie Detachment located at Marche-en-Famenne covers the Liege and Luxembourg areas. Delta Detachment covers the Limbourg and Antwerp areas and is located at Leopoldsburg. Echo Detachment located at Lombardsijde covers Western and Eastern Flanders.\n\nThe Military Police force carries out the following missions:\n\n\nThe Belgian Military Police has also taken part in multinational peacekeeping missions such as Afghanistan, Kosovo and Congo. The Federal Police’s Military Crime Division (DJMM) performs all investigations involving the armed forces.\n\nIn 2003, duties relating to refugees and deserters in wartime were transferred from the then disbanded RijkswachtGendarmerie to the MPs. Members of the former 4 and 6 MP Companies were merged into the new MP Group, along with some Gendarmes previously assigned MP-related duties.\n\nBelgian MPs are identified by black armbands with the letters MP in white block letters, worn on the left arm.\n\nShortly after the formation of the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2005, an intentional strategy was made to limit in law and multi-ethnic, crime violation in the armed forces, so to speak, the Military Police, which was formed later on and approved by the Ministry of Defense of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nThe first documents reflecting the establishment of interior order bodies in Bulgaria are: Instruction on Establishment of Initial Military Police Governorship, dated 3 July 1877, Instruction on the Rights and Duties of the Constituted Local Police Guards, dated 19 July 1877, and Temporary Regulations on Constituting Police Voluntary Sentries and Armed Guards, dated 8 August 1877.\n\nAccording to the Instruction on Military Police Governorship in the free Bulgarian lands and regions with army presence, the Military Police enforced the law and order in the rear of the army, suspended possible clashes among members of different religious communities and observed for the proper implementation of commanders instructions.\n\nIrrespective of the military police presence in the rear of the army and troops, newly- appointed civil administrative authorities (governors) were given the right to organize mounted and infantry sentries and armed local guards.\n\nTemporary Regulations on Gendarmerie Structure were promulgated after Prince Alexander I had suspended the Constitution of Turnovo in 1881. The gendarmerie became government guard with military organization and was tasked with maintenance of public law and order, law enforcement, and implementation of police rules issued by the authorities. The new structure was based on French and Austrian experience.\n\nGendarmerie Corps Chief, subordinate to the Military Minister, was empowered to act as a liaison point between the military administration and the other ministries and institutions as well as to take independent decisions on any issues within his competence. Gendarmerie units’ chiefs were independent of the provincial military chiefs and were empowered to issue orders to them.\n\nDrafting of bodies for security and interior order was based on the necessity of mastering and integrating this activity under the Military Ministry. With Decree of the Prince No. 73/ 3 July 1882, the Gendarmerie Corps was converted into the Dragoon Corps. The intention of the military minister was to be set up a cavalry unit authorized to carry out police duties as well. Of interest is Ministerial Order No. 193/ 1882 which tasked the Dragoon Corps with specific tasks on the Ruschuk-Varna railway. Then existing Military Police Railway Command was disbanded on 1 October 1882.\n\nThe names used in the documents mentioned above, \"military police governorship\" and \"military police command\", connote the meaning and sense of the specific activities of these bodies and prove that military police history dates back to the very beginning of the Third Bulgarian State.\n\nIn 1883 started a process of purposeful legislative regulation on the activity of the police forces for public order and security and their gradual differentiation from the Military Ministry. Prince Alexander I tasked Prime Minister Dragan Tsankov with the establishment of a new police structure in Bulgaria. Its activity was to be legally based upon the Regulations on Police Guards, adopted in 1883.\n\nIn compliance with the Decree of His Highness No. 756/ 17 September 1883, the Dragoon Corps was disbanded on 1 October 1883. Its property, clothing, armament and ammunition were to be given to the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nIn the Act on the Armed Forces Regulation in the Bulgarian Principality, adopted by the Sixth Regular National Assembly on 3 December 1891, envisaged establishment of six semi-companies in stages. Each of them was to be added to a division and to be set military police tasks in wartime. Such units were not actually formed but this fact shows the political will for their creation in case of eventual military activities.\n\nTasks and strength of the MPs were precisely defined in the eve of the 1912 war with Turkey. A Military Police infantry platoon of 60 with an officer in charge and a mounted platoon of 50 were added to any division. The Military Police patrolled in the troops' areas and in the rear, maintaining the order and discipline.\n\nWhile Bulgaria was getting ready for the war, the Strategic Command assessed the need of military police presence in the army. In 1915 a military police sector of six squadrons was founded under the Staff of the acting army. In the same year was issued Instruction on the Officer Qualities and Posts in the Military Police Troops. The document reads their goals: to maintain order and law in the troops’ areas and in the rear, to enforce laws, ordinances, regulations, and orders of senior commanders and chiefs. The Military Police were tasked with guarding staffs, transport, warehouses and other army installations. They were also empowered to implement specific tasks – crime investigation, protection of civilians against despoiling and abusing, fight against marauders, supervision and control over the civilians following the army and especially the unreliable and/ or espionage suspected individuals. MPs convoyed, secured refugees, prisoners-of-war, military posts and mail, collected and stored weapons left behind by its own or enemy troops, horses and other objects, checked on the regularity of troops at the railway stations.\n\nWith Ministerial Order No.160/ 20 December 1916 was promulgated Instruction on Military Police Service within First Infantry Division of Sofia. It empowered the Military Police to apprehend, subject to search, and detain any suspected individuals as well as individuals without proper documents no matter whether they were civilian or military.\n\nIn 1923 the Act on Military Police Replenishment was adopted due to the necessity of organizational and structural building of the Military Police. The criteria for personnel selection were too high for that time and met the high standards and specific requirements for performing military police duties.\n\nIn 1940 the Ministry of War issued Recommendations on the Military Police Service. Military police units were tasked with maintenance of order, morale, and discipline in the army. The Recommendations also listed a lot of measures for securing staffs, communications and messages in the rear. In the last chapter, it was emphasized that the Recommendations were valid in wartime and were to be executed on maneuvers and under martial law declared in peacetime.\n\nThe Military Police Group was set up under the Chief Army Command on 20 February 1941, shortly before Bulgaria entered World War II. Military Police School for Initial and Further Personnel Training was founded in Sofia in 1942.\n\nThe Military Police Group was transformed into the Securing Group in compliance of the Order of the Military Ministry, dated 2 September 1944. In January 1945 this Military Securing Group was disbanded and a special group for implementation of specific tasks in the army was formed. In 1946 it became regiment. In 1947 under Ordinance No. 523 of 8 April the Regiment was disbanded under the Paris Peace Treaty clauses.\nIn 1991 the Ministry of Defense tasked the General Staff with the planning of the Military Police organization and structure in order to re-establish the service. A few months later, on 5 November 1991 the Ministerial Council issued Decree No. 217 which proclaimed the establishment of the Military Police – based on regional principle, part of the Bulgarian Army, and to meet the needs of the Armed Forces, troops, ministries, administrations, and Civil Defense of the Republic of Bulgaria.\n\nThe Military Police units are specialized bodies under the Minister of Defense for the purposes of law enforcement, prevention and disclosure of crimes and other violations, maintenance of army order and discipline within garrisons, control over army transport and protection of legal interests and rights of the Bulgarian Army personnel.\n\nThe Military Police, due to the required specific knowledge, experience and skills, had become professional ten years earlier before the Bulgarian Army abolished conscription. The Military Police gradually turns into a modern NATO-modelled formation.\n\nWith Order of the Minister of Defense No. OX-0082/ 29 January 1998 the Military Police Administration – GS was transferred from its immediate subordination to the Chief of the General Staff of the Bulgarian Army to subordination to the Minister of Defense.\n\nOn 2 December 1999 with Ministerial Order No. 985 was founded the Security Service – Military Police and Military Counterintelligence under the Minister of Defense. It was the successor to the then existing administrations MPs and MCI.\n\nOn 1 April 2008, as a result of reformation of the national security system, the Military Counterintelligence passed to the newly founded State Agency National Security. The Security Service – Military Police and Military Counterintelligence was transformed into the Military Police Service under the Minister of Defense.\n\nThe fifth of November has been announced the Military Police Service Celebration Day with Order of the Minister of Defense No. OX-708/ 10 October 2008.\n\nThe current chief of the Bulgarian Military Police Service is Brigadier General Borislav Sertov.\n\nThe Croatian Military Police () is a part of the Croatian Armed Forces (). The Croatian Military Police was formed on 27 August 1991, shortly after the National Guard Corps ()--now the Croatian Army—was formed.\n\nParts of Croatian Military Police are:\n\nThe (Czech \"vojenská policie\") was set up on 21 January 1991. Within the provisions of the Czech Law No. 124/1992 Dig. regarding the Military Police, they are responsible for police protection of armed forces, military facilities, military material and other state property controlled by the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic. The Military Police are a professional force.\n\nThe Military Police are headed by a Chief, who directly reports to the Minister of Defence.\n\nAs of 1 July 2003, the Military Police officers are equipped with accessories black in colour, including their distinctive feature – the black beret.\n\nThe structure is based on the territorial principle. The Military Police subordinated headquarters are located in Prague, Stará Boleslav, Tábor, and Olomouc.\n\nMilitary police officers are assigned directly to military units, and they form also part of military contingents of the Armed Forces of the Czech Republic in foreign deployments.\nForeign Deployments:\n\nThe military police officers serve within contingents of the Armed Forces of the Czech Republic on foreign operations on the territory of Iraq and on the Balkans, and as of March 2007 its Special Operation Group (SOG) also in southern Afghanistan in the Helmand Province.\n\nIn Denmark the military police (Danish: \"militærpoliti\") services are carried out as independent units under each branch. In the army all military police tasks are done as an integral part of the \"Trænregimentet\",\nwhereas the navy military police is an independent unit under command and control of the commanding officer of the Danish Frogman Corps\nand the air force, as a part of the force protection squadron (\"Squadron 660\") of the air force \"Combat Support Wing\".\nUnlike the two other branches, the navy military police also handles installation guard duties (which is carried out by regular soldiers in the army and by an installation protection unit under \"Squadron 660\" in the air force) of naval installations as well as certain military installations in the Danish capital region, such as the Danish Defence Command and the Ministry of Defence.\n\nMP personnel typically wear either branch-specific display dress uniforms with white shoulder markings with the text \"MP\" or the branch-common daily combat uniform, with a red beret. In the air force the MP-shoulder markings is typically replaced with markings saying either \"VAGT\" or \"GUARD\", but for international missions they also use the \"MP\"-markings.\n\nMP personnel generally do not have legal authority over civilians in non-military areas but only over military personnel and on military installations (also publicly accessible places like Holmen naval base in Copenhagen). On some occasions MP personnel can support civilian police in certain tasks, but will only have slightly more legal authority than civilians—similar to the police home guard.\n\nIn the army military police are almost without exception NCOs or officers, whereas the navy and air force rely mainly of Danish ranks OR-1 to OR-3.\n\nFurthermore, the home guard has a police branch, which supports both the civilian Danish police and the military police.\n\nTypical MP jobs are:\n\nThe \"Sõjaväepolitsei\" are the Military Police of the Estonian Defence Forces. The Estonian MP organization was created in 1994 and is today divided into tactical (patrol) and investigative units. Additionally, conscript-based reserve MP platoons are trained in Guard Battalion every year. MP tasks include investigation of serious disciplinary cases and some armed service-related crimes, supervision of military discipline within the Forces, military traffic control and various security tasks. Within conflict/crises areas (Afghanistan) the MP may provide close protection of the Estonian national representative and other visiting VIPs. When on regular patrol assignment, Estonian MPs wear a black brassard on their right shoulder, with the letters \"SP\" in silver, and are usually equipped with an HK USP 9 mm pistol, spare magazines, radio, handcuffs, pepper spray and an expandable police baton.\n\nThe \"\" (literally, \"Soldier Police\") are the military police of the Finnish Defence Forces. The Finnish MPs wear a black brassard on the left shoulder with the letters 'SP' in white. A military policeman is usually armed with a 9 mm pistol, a baton, pepper spray and handcuffs on his belt. The military police includes both career and conscript personnel, and is primarily used to guard military installations and supervise military traffic. All military police personnel are trained with basic police techniques and usually receive training for fighting in urban areas. In wartime, the tasks are more extensive and include protection of key personnel and targets, especially against enemy special forces, and surveillance, control, pursuit, arrest and destruction missions. For training, almost all brigades have military police companies. The companies are part of and subordinate to the brigade.\n\nThe military police has jurisdiction over military personnel, military areas, installations and exercise areas. However, a military police patrol may stop a crime that it witnesses in process in a civilian area. Additionally, if a military police unit is near to a serious crime taking place, such as a robbery or an assault, and the civilian police are delayed, a military police unit that is near to the scene can offer to handle the situation until the civilian police arrive. As with some other Finnish Defence Forces units, the military police can be used to provide assistance to the civilian police when they are undermanned or lack special resources. In such case, the military police may take measures deemed necessary by the civilian police. For example, during the 2005 Helsinki World Athletic Championship Games, military police conscripts and career personnel were placed along the marathon route to prevent the large numbers of spectators from obstructing the runners.\n\nBefore and during World War II, Finland did not have military police in peacetime, but only temporary \"sotapoliisi\" (\"war police\"). Ex-police officers were conscripted for police officer duty in the armed forces; usually only the officers had police training. Planning for \"sotapoliisi\" was still unfinished at the break of war, so regular reservists could not be conscripted. Thus personnel had to be recruited without regard to quality; conscripts found unfit for field duty for e.g. health reasons, and even those with previous criminal record were recruited, and the reputation suffered.\nFor a long time, \"sotapoliisi\" existed only in wartime. However, improvement to this came eventually: the military police school was founded in 1963, and civilian police background was no longer required.\n\nThe crimes committed by military personnel are, as a rule, investigated by the military. Minor infractions are usually investigated by the career personnel of the unit, while more serious crimes are investigated by the investigative section of the General Staff of the Finnish Defence Forces. In minor matters, the company commander or his superiors may use disciplinary powers, but more serious cases are deferred to the civilian prosecutor who will take the case to the district court.\n\nThe \"Gendarmerie Nationale\" acts as both the military police and one of the two national law enforcement forces of France.\nProvost missions are assumed by local units for the garrisons of the Ground Army on French soil and by special divisions : \n\nThe Gendarmerie Navale, Gendarmerie de l'Air, Ordnance Gendarmerie and Provost Gendarmerie are placed under the dual supervision of the Gendarmerie and the relevant military branch. However, for judiciary duties, they are under exclusive command of the relevant court.\n\nIn addition to the Gendarmerie, \"Naval Fusiliers (Fusiliers Marins)\", \"Fusilier commandos of the Air Force (Fusiliers Commandos de l'Air)\" and dedicated regimental platoons maintain order for their respective branches.\n\nDuring World War II, Germany had numerous military police units. The primary units were the \"Feldgendarmerie\", which comprised members of the \"Gendarmerie\". Other units included the Army Patrol Service (\"Heeres-Streifendienst\"), the Train Station Guards (Wehrmachtstreifendienst), and the \"Feldjägerkorps\". Criminal investigations were conducted by the Geheime Feldpolizei or Secret Field Police.\n\nThe \"Feldjäger\" are the current military police of the German \"Bundeswehr\". The term \"Feldjäger\" (\"field rifleman\" or \"field hunter\") has a long tradition and dates back to the mid-17th century. Their motto is \"Suum Cuique\" (\"To each his own\", derived from Cicero, \"De Finibus, Bonorum et Malorum\", \"liber V\", 67: \"\"(...) ut fortitudo in laboribus periculisque cernatur, (...), iustitia in\" suo cuique \"tribuendo.\"\").\nThe paramilitary Greek Gendarmerie fulfilled most security and order duties in Greece until World War II. In 1951, Law 1746/51 established the framework of the Hellenic Army's Greek Military Police (, \"Ellinikí Stratiotikí Astynomía\"). The organization—and particularly its Special Interrogative Department, EAT-ESA—became notorious for its brutality during the 1967–1974 military junta. Law 276/76 renamed it simply to \"Military Police\" (Στρατονομία). Corresponding organizations exist also for other two branches of the Greek armed forces: for the Hellenic Air Force (Αερονομία, \"Aeronomia\"), founded in 1945 as the Greek Air Force Police (Ελληνική Αεροπορική Αστυνομία, ΕΑΑ), and for the Hellenic Navy (Ναυτονομία, \"Naftonomia\", properly Υπηρεσία Ναυτονομίας or Y.ΝΑ.)\n\nThese three forces work together often but are independent from each other. Most of the personnel are draftee soldiers undergoing their regular military service.\nThe Irish Military Police (colloquially \"PA\"s, deriving from the official title, \"Póilíní Airm\") are responsible for the prevention and detection of crime in the Irish Defence Forces. Entry to the PA is restricted to serving members of the Defence Forces. All members of the Corps are NCOs, with Officers being transferred in for temporary assignments. Unlike many Military Police Services, they retain responsibility for controlling access to many, but not all, military posts. In addition, they provide a military detachment to the Oireachtas (Houses of Parliament) and have a large ceremonial role. In the past they had a role in training armed elements of the Garda Síochána but in recent times this has decreased. Historically, they were responsible for detaining political prisoners in military prisons (until the handing over of Military Prisons at Cork, Spike Island, Arbour Hill and the Curragh to the Civil Authorities) and in the past occasionally provided firing squads for executions (the last time being the \"Emergency\" period of 1939-1946).\n\nThe \"Arma dei Carabinieri\" is a gendarmerie force acting as both the military police and one of the five national police forces in Italy. Formed on 13 July 1814, it has been for almost two centuries the senior branch of the Italian Army, until on 5 October 2000 it became a fully independent Service of the Italian military.\n\nWith a strength of about 120,000, the Arma dei Carabinieri is a very large organization, including its own air and naval services, but most of its personnel is used for civilian police duties.\n\nThe properly Military Police components of the Arma dei Carabinieri are grouped into the \"Divisione Unità Mobili Carabinieri\" (Carabinieri Mobile Units Division), organized as follows:\n\n2nd Brigade:\n\nFrom these units are drawn most of the elements that form the Carabinieri MP coys, platoons and detachments assigned to all the major Italian Army, Navy and Air Force units, as well as many of the personnel forming the MSU Regiments (Multinational Specialist Units) and the IPUs (Integrated Police Units) serving abroad in support of European Union, NATO and United Nation missions. The Arma dei Carabinieri have gained a very good reputation for the professionalism and organization of their MP units in support of international missions, so much that during the 2004 G8 Sea Island Conference the Carabinieri have been tasked to organize and run the CoESPU (Center of Excellence for Stability Police Units), to centralize the training of multinational MP units for international missions.\n\nThe 1st Brigade of the same \"Divisione Unità Mobili Carabinieri\", organized on 11 Mobile battalions and 1 Cavalry Regiment, does contribute to form the same Military Police components as the 1st Brigade, but is mostly tasked to riot control civilian police duties. It is worth to note that inside each of its battalions there is usually a small Mechanized company, so in case of war they are likely to be mobilized for combat duties (as happened during both World Wars).\n\nThe \"Guardia di Finanza\" acts as a specialized Military Police force when called upon. Its normal duties include being a force acting in border control, customs duties, and police investigations into financial crimes and illegal drug trafficking.\n\nDuring the Cold War the approach of NATO to military policing was to provide military police support to national forces in terms of:\n\nAfter the cold war, this has now evolved into:\n\n\nIn the Netherlands, the function of military police is performed by the \"Koninklijke Marechaussee\" (\"Royal Constabulary\"), a separate branch of the military independent of the Army, Navy and Air Force. Besides performing military duties, the \"Marechaussee\" is also a gendarmerie force.\n\nThe word \"Marechaussee\" seems to derive from the old French name \"Marecheaux\" given to an ancient court of justice in Paris called the \"Tribunal of Constables and Marshals of France\". These constables and marshals were to become members of the Gendarmerie, which served as a model for the police forces of both Belgium and the Netherlands. The term \"Marechaussee\" was also used for the Continental Army's military police during the American Revolution.\n\nIn Norway, military police are service members of the Norwegian Army, Royal Norwegian Navy or Royal Norwegian Air Force. Since about 2002, all are trained at Sessvollmoen Camp. MPs in the Army are assigned to the Military Police Battalion, located at Bardufoss, Troms county. The first battalion commander and Provost Marshal of 6. division Norwegian Army was Maj M Langvik, the current battalion commander is Lieutenant Colonel Jan Henry Norvalls. The battalion consists of approximately 50 officers and NCOs, and 150 privates and corporals. Norwegian MPs first go through a six-month selection/educational period, before being assigned to the battalion or to regimental duties with other units for the remainder of their twelve-month service. Norwegian MPs do not have authority over civilians, except on or in the vicinity of military installations, vehicles or other property or under martial law. They do have authority over military personnel, including in certain circumstances reservists, anywhere, including when such personnel are off duty.\n\nThe \"Heimevernet\" (\"Home Guard\") also has MPs in its ranks. Usually each District (regiment) has one or two platoons, consisting exclusively of former regular or conscript military police personnel.\n\nNorwegian MPs wear a red beret and a red lanyard around the left shoulder extending to the left front pocket. Only personnel currently serving as MPs are allowed to wear this. When on official duty, they also wear the MP armband, which is black with \"MP\" in red letters. It was previously worn on the right shoulder but is now worn on the left shoulder, following NATO practice. They can also wear white webbing, or a number of items for special duties, like high visibility vests for traffic duty, or as mounted personnel while performing motorcycle escort for the Royal Family or their official guests, etc.\n\nArmy canine units are also assigned to the MP battalion, but the personnel in such units are not necessarily MPs. Such personnel do not hold military police authority, and do not wear the MP insignia.\n\nMPs have no other powers over civilians than ordinary members of the public, except inside, or in the immediate vicinity of military installations. More serious cases, like narcotics, are handed over to civilian police for investigation.\n\nThe Military Gendarmerie (\"Żandarmeria Wojskowa\", ŻW) are the MPs for the entire Polish military.\n\nIn Portugal, each branch of the Armed Forces has its own military police force. The Portuguese Navy has the \"Polícia Naval\" (Naval Police), the Portuguese Army has the \"Polícia do Exército\" (Army Police), and the Portuguese Air Force has the \"Polícia Aérea\" (Air Police). The Air Police is an arm of its own inside the Air Force, but the Army Police is only a speciality of the cavalry arm and the Naval Police is a unit of the Marine Corps (\"Fuzileiros\"). A military criminal investigation police, common for the three branches of Armed Forces, also exists, this being the \"Polícia Judiciária Militar\" (Military Judiciary Police), that is under the direct dependency of the Minister of National Defense.\n\nPortugal, also, has a gendarmerie type force, the \"Guarda Nacional Republicana\" (GNR, National Republican Guard), that is a special corps of troops that executes both civil public security missions and military missions. In time of peace, GNR is under operational command of the Minister of Internal Affairs, but in time of war it can be put under the command of the Armed Forces. GNR is not tasked with enforcing the law within the Armed Forces.\n\nIncluded in the Portuguese Navy organization also exist two special police forces. The first one is the \"Polícia Maritima\" (Maritime Police), that serves as a coast guard and maritime law enforcement agency in the scope of the civil role of the Portuguese Navy as the National Maritime Authority. The other one is the \"Polícia dos Estabelecimentos da Marinha\" (Navy's Establishments Police), a small gendarmerie type agency responsible for guarding the Lisbon Naval Base and some other naval facilities.\n\nIn Romania, the Romanian Military Police (\"Poliția Militară\") carries out police duties for the Romanian Armed Forces. It usually handles military security and military crimes and it has national jurisdiction. The Romanian military police is organized in four battalions (two of them are headquartered in Bucharest, one in Iași and one in Târgu Mureș).\n\nThe Romanian Gendarmerie, although a military force with national jurisdiction, is not tasked with enforcing the law within the armed forces (in contrast to the French Gendarmerie, which acts as both military and national police force).\n\nThe Russian Military Police (Военная полиция России) are the MPs for the entire Russian military. They carry out police duties for the Russian Armed Forces.\n\nFormer military police organisations were the Commandant's Service (Военная комендатура) and Military Automobile Inspection (Военная автомобильная инспекция (ВАИ)).\n\n(Latin: Vojna Policija, Cyrillic: Војна полиција) The Military Police are considered to be among the best qualified and most combat-prepared organizations within the Serbian military. Their responsibilities include counterterrorist operations, combating organized crime, close protection, securing hostages and search and rescue.\n\nSpecific training is provided for members of special units of the Military Police. Drills for Military Police units, from squad to battalion, are based on their anticipated tactical employment, including training in putting down civil disorder.\nThe Military Police Directorate of the General Staff of the Serbian Military is responsible for overseeing the units of the Military Police.\n\nSee also:\n\nEach branch of the Spanish Armed Forces (Army, Navy and Air Force) has its own military police (Policia Militar, Policia Naval y Policia Aerea respectively). They are only recognized as constabularies with jurisdiction over military installations and military personnel. They have no jurisdiction over civilians off of military installations. They are also in charge of the security of military installations, play a role as bodyguards of generals, admirals and other relevant military personnel, provide security services to military transports and police military personnel abroad.\n\nThe Civil Guard (in Spanish Guardia Civil) is the Spanish gendarmerie force. Along with their civilian law enforcement functions, due to their military nature the Civil Guard is also assigned several functions as a Military Police under the Minister of Defence, the most important of which is Criminal Investigations in military facilities and vessels, other MP functions include traffic and customs enforcement in international missions.\n\nThe Soviet Armed Forces did not have any units technically named 'military police'. Two separate agencies handled military police duties on a day-to-day basis.\n\nThe \"Komendantskaya sluzhba\" or \"Commandant's Service\" of the Soviet Army wore a yellow letter \"K\" on a red patch on the sleeve to indicate their membership of this service—the \"de facto\" army police.\n\nA second organisation called the Traffic Regulators existed within the Rear Services. Traffic Regulators served to control military highway and motor vehicle traffic. Traffic Regulators also wear a white painted helmet with red stripes to indicate their status and either an armband ar patch with the Cyrillic letter \"P\" (R).\n\nIn the Soviet Navy and (later in the present day Russian Navy) the role of Naval provosts was primarily filled by personnel from the Naval Infantry.\n\nThe Swedish military police are part of the Life Guards, stationed in Stockholm. There are two MP companies, the 14th and the 15th companies. The 14th MP company serve a so-called GSS/T contract (two years of service over a period of eight years, the remaining time the soldiers can have a civilian job or study) and the 15th MP company serve a so-called GSS/K contract (hired continually for eight years). The Life Guards are also the seat of the Swedish military police unit (\"MP-enheten\") which is responsible for the education of new MPs and is in charge of all MP activities in Sweden. Part of 13th security battalion, which is a counter-intelligence battalion, is also part of the Life Guards and has some soldiers who are trained MPs (mostly corporals and sergeants).\n\nIn the Swiss Armed Forces, the Military Police is responsible for law enforcement on military property and for all incidents where military personnel or equipment is involved. Furthermore, the military police provides protection of Swiss representatives abroad and is in part responsible for the guarding of embassies and foreign VIPs in Switzerland, as well as maintaining personal security for members of the Swiss Federal Council. In addition, the Swiss Explosive Ordnance Disposal Center is a branch of the MP for the disposal of unexploded ordnance and also participates in various demining operations around the world.\n\nThe professional MP units comprise 758 officers and are divided into four Regions, each consisting of two companies and additional groups specialised on criminal investigations and training. In addition, there are two militia MP battalions with a head count of roughly 2000 men.\n\nUnlike regular army personnel, military policemen wear grey uniforms in order to provide distinct identification. Moreover, the MP is equipped uniquely, armed with SIG Pro side arms and SIG 552 assault rifles (compared to the standard issue SIG P220 pistol and SIG 550 assault rifle). Professional MP units drive patrol cars similar to those of the civilian police, but also use Piranha and Duro APCs.\n\nThe Ukrainian Military Police (VSP) is the military police for the Ukrainian Armed Forces\n\nIn the United Kingdom the term 'Military Police' usually refers to the Royal Military Police. The Royal Military Police is the branch of the Adjutant General's Corps, responsible for policing the British Army (both in the United Kingdom and overseas).\n\nThe term 'Service Police' is often used to describe the three separate police organisations for each of the three branches of the UK's Armed Forces:\n\n\n\n\nIn addition, each of the three service police has its own Special Investigation Branch (SIB) to undertake investigation of more serious crime and plain-clothes investigations, and use the joint Service Police Crime Bureau operated by the RNP, RMP and RAFP.\n\nThe 1st Military Police Battalion (1 MP Bn) is the field component of the Military Police and the Domestic Policing Unit (DPU) is the garrison policing component. In the Australian Army, the Royal Australian Corps of Military Police also performs the role of a secondary communications network in the front battle zone. Army MP’s wear a red shoulder patch with MP in black.\nIn the Royal Australian Navy, the Naval Police Coxswain Branch performs dual roles of performing general police duties, investigation of criminal offences and a secondary role of ships' coxswain staff responsible for administration of ships' personnel. \nIn the Royal Australian Air Force, the Air Force Police perform the military police role. The Air Force Police organisation falls within Security Forces, therefore their role is largely providing force protection and enforcing military and civilian laws. Air Force Police members wear either a black brassard or patch with white SP meaning Service Police.\n\nService Police is the term used to describe all three services policing agencies.\n\nThe Royal Australian Corps of Military Police train their own working dogs for a more Infantry/combat role.\n\nAll major crimes committed by or against personnel of the Australian Defence Force are investigated by the Australian Defence Force Investigative Service.\n\nThe New Zealand Defence Force Military Police (NZDF MP) is a tri-service Military Police unit formed on 1 December 2014. The three Military Police units from the Navy, Army, and Air Force were amalgamated to form the tri service NZDF MP.\n\nThe New Zealand Defence Force Military Police comprises military police personnel from the Royal New Zealand Navy, New Zealand Army, and the Royal New Zealand Air Force. Personnel still maintain their own single service identity but operate under a single Provost Marshal and investigate offences against the Armed Forces Discipline Act 1971.\n\nThe New Zealand Defence Force Military Police operates outside of the normal Navy, Army and Air Force command structure. The current Provost Marshal is a Group Captain who reports directly to the Vice Chief of the NZDF.\n\nFor all serious and complex investigations that are outside the scope of regular Military Police personnel a specialised unit known as the Serious Investigations Branch (SIB) handles all high-profile investigations. SIB personnel attend courses with the New Zealand Police Criminal Investigation Branch. SIB have a similar role to the Australian Defence Force Investigative Service (ADFIS). SIB are also seconded to the NZ Police CIB.\n\nNew Zealand Defence Force Military Police also provide the close protection function for the NZDF. Only personnel from within the unit are able to attend the Tier 1 course and undergo a rigorous selection process. From time to time NZ Police officers from the Diplomatic Protection Squad and the Armed Offenders Squad have been known to also complete the course.\n\nNew Zealand Defence Force Military Police also complete NZ Police courses such as Urgent Duty Driving, Disaster Victim Identification, Basic and Intermediate Crash Investigation with the NZ Police Serious Crash Unit, and the Diplomatic Protection Squad training course.\n\nNew Zealand Defence Force Military Police are responsible for all detainee handling both in peacetime and in an operational environment such as custody and escort of POWs. Military Police are responsible for maintaining discipline at the Services Correction Establishment (SCE) which is located at Burnham Military Camp. SCE is the NZDF Military Prison and consists of guards who are all serving members of the NZDF MP. The guards are responsible for rehabilitation of service personnel who have been sent to the facility as a result of serious offences committed against the Armed Forces Discipline Act 1971.\n\nAll New Zealand Defence Force Military Police are identifiable by the blue and white \"MP\" patch they wear on their uniform and the blue beret as head dress, the wearing of the Blue beret differs from many commonwealth military police units as traditionally a red beret is worn.\n\n"}
{"id": "2808878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2808878", "title": "Mining law", "text": "Mining law\n\nMining law is the branch of law relating to the legal requirements affecting minerals and mining. Mining law covers <section begin=overview /> several basic topics, including the ownership of the mineral resource and who can work them. Mining is also affected by various regulations regarding the health and safety of miners, as well as the environmental impact of mining.<section end=overview />\n\nAn aspect of property law that is central to mining law is the question of who \"owns\" the mineral, such that they may legally extract it from the earth. This is often dependent on the type of mineral in question, the mining history of the jurisdiction, as well as the general background legal tradition and its treatment of property.\n\nFor instance, in many jurisdictions, rights to mine gold and silver are retained by the sovereign, as the two metals traditionally served as currency in many a given society.\n\nIn addition to ownership of the mineral, the method of extraction may affect nearby property owners. Subsidence (be it dramatic or subtle) results when a mine (or similar area) collapses or drops, causing above or nearby structures to drop with it, often damaging or destroying them. The issue of support rights determines the legal rights and relationships between parties in these situations.\n\nMining law varies both by the legal tradition of the jurisdiction, as well as the individual jurisdiction.\n\nMining law in Europe originated from medieval common law. From at least the 12th century, German kings claimed mining rights to silver and other metals, taking precedence over the local lords. But by the late Middle Ages, mining rights, known as the \"Bergregal\" were transferred from the king to territorial rulers. Initially, mining rights were granted orally or in writing by individuals. From the early 15th century, mining law was enacted by territorial rulers in the form of decrees or regulations (mining regulations or \"Bergordnungen\"), which often remained in force until the 19th century. A new, far-reaching, legal basis was created with the General Mining Act for the Prussian States of 1865 (\"Allgemeines Berggesetz für die Preußischen Staaten von 1865\"), which, with local variations, was adopted in Brunswick (1867), Bavaria (1869), Württemberg (1874), Baden (1890) and other countries. With the exception of the Kingdom of Saxony, where a similarly important legal statute, the General Mining Act of the Kingdom of Saxony (\"Allgemeines Berggesetz für das Königreich Sachsen\") came into force on 16 June 1868, it became law in all the larger states of Germany.\n\n\nUnlike German mining law, in Great Britain and the Commonwealth the principle of mining by landowners prevails. The crown only lays claim to gold and silver reserves. In exceptional cases (e.g. where land ownership is divided) mining rights may be given to a third party, whereby the landowners have to be compensated. The mining company pays the landowner a lease, dead rent or a royalty. The rights to above- and below-ground minerals (as a rule quarries and mines) may be awarded separately.\n\nMining law in the United States is also based on English \"common law\". Here the landowner is likewise the owner of all raw materials to unlimited depth. However, the state retains rights over phosphate, nitrate, potassium salts, asphalt, coal, oil shale and sulphur, and a right of appropriation (not ownership) by the state for oil and gas. Sand and gravel come under the Department of the Interior.\n\nIn France and Belgium the \"Code civil\" is the basis for mining law.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8441109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8441109", "title": "Operation Front Line", "text": "Operation Front Line\n\nOperation Front Line is an initiative of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), a division of the Department of Homeland Security, that operated in the months leading up to the 2004 presidential election and through the 2005 Presidential Inauguration.\n\nLittle information about the program has been publicly revealed. An Office of Management and Budget cost–benefit analysis described the program as carried out \"to address potential vulnerabilities in immigration and trade systems relative to the national security of the United States.\" An ICE spokesperson has noted that the program \"focused on immigration violators that may have imposed an enhanced public safety or national security threat.\"\n\nThe cost of the program, the criteria used for arrest, and the overall scope of the program have not been publicly revealed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3519449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3519449", "title": "Plenary power", "text": "Plenary power\n\nA plenary power or plenary authority is a complete and absolute power to take action on a particular issue, with no limitations. It is derived from the Latin term \"plenus\" (\"full\").\n\nIn United States constitutional law, plenary power is a power that has been granted to a body or person in absolute terms, with no review of or limitations upon the exercise of that power. The assignment of a plenary power to one body divests all other bodies from the right to exercise that power, where not otherwise entitled. Plenary powers are not subject to judicial review in a particular instance or in general.\n\nThere are very few clear examples of such powers in the United States, due to the nature of the Constitution, which grants different, but at times overlapping, roles to the three branches of federal government and to the states. For example, although the United States Congress, under Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (the Commerce Clause), has been said to have \"plenary\" power over Interstate Commerce, this does not always preclude the states from passing laws that affect interstate commerce in some way. When an activity is legally classified as interstate commerce, historically the states can regulate this type of activity as long as they do so within the bounds of their Constitutional authority. Congress does appear to have complete and absolute power regarding the declaration of war and peace in Article I, Section 8, Clause 11. Yet the President has control over the Armed Forces as Commander-in-Chief. These powers are in ongoing conflict, as seen by the War Powers Resolution of 1973.\n\nAnother example of the ongoing debate over plenary powers in the US Constitution is the controversy surrounding the Spending Clause (Article I, Section 8, Clause 1). This clause states that the Congress is allowed to \"lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence [sic] and general Welfare of the United States\". How far this clause goes, and what it actually means in practice, has been hotly debated since the ratification of the Constitution.\n\nWhile other Constitutional doctrines, such as the unenumerated powers of states and the rights of individuals, are widely held (both historically and currently) as limiting the plenary power of Congress, then-Associate Justice William Rehnquist reflected that \"one of the greatest 'fictions' of our federal system is that the Congress exercises only those powers delegated to it, while the remainder are reserved to the States or to the people. The manner in which this Court has construed the Commerce Clause amply illustrates the extent of this fiction. Although it is clear that the people, through the States, delegated authority to Congress to 'regulate Commerce ... among the several States' (Commerce Clause), one could easily get the sense from this Court's opinions that the federal system exists only at the sufferance of Congress.\" (\"Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Reclamation Association\", 1981.)\n\nThese conflicts over the definition of who or what retains which plenary powers have wide-ranging consequences, as seen in the example of \"United States v. Kagama\", where the Supreme Court found that Congress had complete authority over all Native American affairs.\n\nThe Congress may create and charter, through the enactment of statutes, corporate bodies (Federal Corporations) which can be granted (through the Congress' plenary power to legislate) derivative (derived from the legislation, as opposed to the Constitution itself) plenary power(s) in areas that are defined by statute and which comport with the constitution. The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) is an example of such an entity. It was created by the Congress as a Federal Corporation, and by statute, the TVA is given plenary authority over the setting the rates (prices) it will charge customers for the electricity that it generates. The Congress effectively gave the TVA plenary power over its generated electricity rate (price) setting process by statutorily making TVA's rate (price) settings exempt and immune from legal review by any process whatsoever, be it State, Federal or otherwise. Once the TVA Act itself was ruled constitutional, its rate setting process received its derivative plenary power.\n\nThere is a difference in reach of plenary powers. While in the TVA example the Congress may at any time amend or remove TVA's plenary power to set the rates for the electricity it sells, the President's plenary power to pardon or commute those convicted under the laws of the United States is beyond the reach of the processes of the Federal Government, and requires the amendment of the US Constitution, making it a truly plenary grant of power.\n\nAn example of a plenary power granted to an individual is the power to grant pardons for Federal crimes (not State crimes), which is bestowed upon the President of the United States under Article II, Section 2, of the US Constitution. The President is granted the power to \"grant Reprieves and Pardons for Offences against the United States, except in Cases of Impeachment\".\n\nThat is, within the defined zone (e.g., all offences against the United States, except impeachment), the President may modify the punishment, up to the eradication of the fact of conviction and punishment, for offenses against the United States, entirely. Once done, the President's exercise of this power may not be reviewed by any body or through any forum; nor can this self-executing power (because it is self-executing), once exercised by a President, be reversed, or \"taken back\", by either the granting President, or any of his/her successors.\n\nNeither the power to grant pardon nor the power to construct the scope of a pardon (a commutation) is within the reach of any subsequent review or alteration. Furthermore, double jeopardy prohibits any subsequent prosecution for the offenses over which the pardon was granted. Even the President himself may not rescind a pardon that either he or a predecessor President has granted once such pardon is executed (i.e., once the official instrument is signed by the President and sealed on behalf of the United States).\n\nThe President may also (as in the case of President Gerald Ford and the then former President Richard Nixon, as well as President George H. W. Bush and the former Secretary of Defense Caspar W. Weinberger) \"prospectively\" proclaim a grant of pardon. That is the President may proclaim the pardon of an individual, a group, a corporation, or any entity chargeable of offences under Federal law, prospectively making the subject immune from Federal prosecution for past criminal acts.\n\nSuch a pardon does this by destroying the possibility of a prosecution having a purposeful meaning or result. The rules of judicial procedure make such a future prosecution, or the continuance of an ongoing prosecution, moot. Thereby a motion for dismissal of an ongoing prosecution, or of an initiated future prosecution, is granted by a Court, on the grounds that the prosecution would be of no purpose or effect, and that it would needlessly waste a Court's time and the resources of an accused, who would only have the charges, for which a pardon had been proclaimed, dismissed anyway.\n\nIn regard to immigration law, Congress, under the Plenary Power Doctrine, has the power to make immigration policy subject to judicial oversight. The Executive Branch is charged with enforcing the immigration laws passed by Congress. The doctrine is based on the concept that immigration is a question of national sovereignty, relating to a nation's right to define its own borders. Courts generally refrain from interfering in immigration matters. Historically, the U.S. Supreme Court has taken a hands-off approach when asked to review the political branches' immigration decisions and policy-making. The Center for Immigration Studies, an organization with a slant toward isolationism, suggests there is a movement to \"erode\" political-branch control over immigration in favor of a judge-administered system and that the results have created national security concerns. The U.S. Supreme Court case \"Zadvydas v. Davis\" is cited as an example of the U.S. Supreme Court not following plenary power precedent.\n\n"}
{"id": "61571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61571", "title": "Ross J. Anderson", "text": "Ross J. Anderson\n\nRoss John Anderson, FRS, FREng (born 15 September 1956) is a researcher, writer, and industry consultant in security engineering. He is Professor of Security Engineering at the Computer Laboratory, University of Cambridge where he is part of the Security Group.\n\nAnderson was educated at the High School of Glasgow. In 1978, he graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in mathematics and natural science from Trinity College, Cambridge, and subsequently received a qualification in computer engineering. Anderson worked in the avionics and banking industry before moving back to the University of Cambridge in 1992, to work on his doctorate under the supervision of Roger Needham and start his career as an academic researcher. He received his PhD in 1995, and became a lecturer in the same year.\n\nAnderson's research interests are in security, cryptology, dependability and technology policy. In cryptography, he designed with Eli Biham the BEAR, LION and Tiger cryptographic primitives, and co-wrote with Biham and Lars Knudsen the block cipher Serpent, one of the finalists in the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) competition. He has also discovered weaknesses in the FISH cipher and designed the stream cipher Pike.\n\nIn 1998, Anderson founded the Foundation for Information Policy Research, a think tank and lobbying group on information-technology policy.\n\nAnderson is also a founder of the UK-Crypto mailing list and the economics of security research domain.\n\nHe is well-known among Cambridge academics as an outspoken defender of academic freedoms, intellectual property and other matters of university politics. He is engaged in the ″Campaign for Cambridge Freedoms″ and has been an elected member of Cambridge University Council since 2002. In January 2004, the student newspaper \"Varsity\" declared Anderson to be Cambridge University's \"most powerful person\".\n\nIn 2002, he became an outspoken critic of trusted computing proposals, in particular Microsoft's Palladium operating system vision.\n\nAnderson's TCPA FAQ has been characterised by IBM TC researcher David R. Safford as \"full of technical errors\" and of \"presenting speculation as fact.\"\n\nFor years Anderson has been arguing that by their nature large databases will never be free of abuse by breaches of security. He has said that if a large system is designed for ease of access it becomes insecure; if made watertight it becomes impossible to use. This is sometimes known as \"Anderson's Rule\".\n\nAnderson is the author of \"Security Engineering\", published by Wiley in 2001. He was the founder and editor of \"Computer and Communications Security Reviews\".\n\nAfter the vast Global surveillance disclosure leaked by Edward Snowden beginning in June 2013 Anderson suggested one way to begin stamping out the British state's unaccountable involvement in this NSA spying scandal is to entirely end the domestic secret services. Anderson: “Were I a legislator, I would simply abolish MI5.\" Anderson notes the only way this kind of systemic data collection has been made possible was through the business models of private industry. The value of information-driven web companies such as Facebook and Google is built around their ability to gather vast tracts of data. It was something the intelligence agencies would have struggled with alone.\n\nAnderson is a critic of smart meters, writing that there are various privacy and energy security concerns.\n\nAnderson was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 2009. His nomination reads: \n\nAnderson was also elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering (FREng) in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "9136942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9136942", "title": "SEC Rule 10b5-1", "text": "SEC Rule 10b5-1\n\nSEC Rule 10b5-1, codified at , is a regulation enacted by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in 2000. The SEC states that Rule 10b5-1 was enacted in order to resolve an unsettled issue over the definition of insider trading, which is prohibited by SEC Rule 10b-5.\n\nDifferent courts of appeals had come to different conclusions about what constituted insider trading under Rule 10b-5 — specifically, whether someone could be held liable for insider trading simply by trading while in possession of inside information, or whether a trier of fact must find that the person actually used that inside information when making the trade.\n\nParagraph (a) of the Rule essentially repeats the holding of the United States Supreme Court in \"United States v. O'Hagan\", which defines insider trading under the misappropriation theory. It states, in full, that\n\nParagraph (b) addresses the unsettled \"possession\" versus \"use\" issue, stating that a person violates Rule 10b-5 simply by trading while in \"possession\" of inside information. It states, in full, that\n\nIn other words, under 10b5-1(b) a person could be liable for insider trading simply by possessing inside information regarding a given security, breaching a fiduciary duty to the source of the information, and then trading it with a self-serving intent, even if he or she would have made the trade anyway. See \"\"United States v. O'Hagan\", 521 U.S. 642, 652 (1997). But it is unlikely the SEC will detect or particularly care about a small trade that would have occurred anyway. A large trade or series of trades that reap unusual benefits for a trader, however, will likely be detected, and it would be difficult to prove that the material non-public information did not contribute to the decision to make the trade.\n\nIn paragraph (c), however, the SEC created an affirmative defense to any charge of insider trading, \"designed to cover situations in which a person can demonstrate that the material nonpublic information was not a factor in the trading decision.\" The provision allows an affirmative defense to insider trading when the trade was made pursuant to a contract, instructions given to another, or a written plan that \"[d]id not permit the person to exercise any subsequent influence over how, when, or whether to effect purchases or sales\" (10b5-1(c)(1)(i)(B)(3)), and where the plan (or contract or instructions) was created before the person had inside information.\n\nFor example, a CEO of a company could call a broker on January 1 and enter into a plan to sell a particular quantity of shares of his company's stock on March 1, find out terrible news about his company on February 1 that will not become public until April 1, and then go forward with the March 1 sale anyway, saving himself from losing money when the bad news becomes public. Under the terms of Rule 10b5-1(b) this is insider trading because the CEO \"was aware\" of the inside information when he made the trade. But he can assert an affirmative defense under Rule 10b5-1(c), because he planned the trade before he learned the inside information.\n\nAfter Rule 10b5-1 was enacted, the SEC staff publicly took the position that canceling a planned trade made under the safe harbor does not constitute insider trading, even if the person was aware of the inside information when canceling the trade. The SEC stated that, despite the fact that 10b5-1(c) requires trades to be irrevocable, there can be no liability for insider trading under Rule 10b-5 without an actual securities transaction, based on the U.S. Supreme Court's holding in \"Blue Chip Stamps v. Manor Drug Stores\", 421 U.S. 723 (1975).\n\nThis staff interpretation raises the possibility that executives can exploit this safe harbor by entering into 10b5-1 trading plans before they have inside information while retaining the option to later cancel those plans based on inside information. Although paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) does deny the affirmative defense to offsetting or hedged transactions, in that case there would still be an actual trade (whichever of the offsetting trades was not canceled) that could constitute insider trading and violate Rule 10b-5. The SEC's position is that there can be no insider trading without a trade, so that a person could cancel a planned trade based on inside information and avoid liability. Although technically any plan that is cancelable does not come under the 10b5-1 safe harbor, proving that an executed trade was hypothetically cancelable might be very difficult.\n\nA few academic commentators have written about this issue, arguing that insiders can make systematically above-market profits by using 10b5-1 plans that they are still able to cancel. One empirical study has found that insiders using 10b5-1 plans do in fact make above-market profits (the paper also alludes to other potential loopholes that might explain this result), and another has found that the presence of publicly announced 10b5-1 plans has economic effects on securities markets that are generally associated with insider trading. Others contend that rather than timing trades, executives may time news or press releases to move the stock before a 10b5-1 plan sale.\n\nNoted in a speech by Linda Chatman Thomsen, the SEC chief enforcement officer, the SEC is now investigating why 10b5-1 trades appear to outperform the market. Allegations of improper 10b5-1 trades were noted during the insider trading trial of Joseph Nacchio, former Qwest CEO. There are also preliminary investigations into 10b5-1 trades by Angelo Mozilo from Countrywide Financial. The SEC sent a Wells Notice to Mozilo in May 2009, suggesting intent to pursue civil charges in relation to alleged illegal trades through his 10b5-1 plan.\n\nOn March 25, 2009, the SEC staff revised its interpretative guidance regarding the circumstances under which the affirmative defense in Rule 10b5-1(c) is available. In particular, the staff followed the approach previously urged by some commentators to clarify (1) that the cancellation of a 10b5-1 plan could call the good faith of other, executed plans into doubt and (2) that the Supreme Court's decision in \"Blue Chip Stamps v. Manor Drug Stores\", 421 U.S. 723 (1975), did not affect the SEC's ability to bring an enforcement action against a would-be insider trader who canceled a trading plan and did not trade in a particular transaction because a subsequent decision, \"Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., v. Dabit\", 547 U.S. 71 (2006), made clear that \"Blue Chip Stamps\" dealt only with the implied private right of action for violations of Rule 10b-5 and not the \"in connection with\" requirement for all Rule 10b-5 violations.\n"}
{"id": "187585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187585", "title": "Serving channel", "text": "Serving channel\n\nA serving channel (sometimes called a depot channel) is a slang term for a file sharing channel found on an IRC network. Here, users can share and download files including photos, videos, audio files, books, programs, etc. Users that are actively sharing their files are generally referred to as 'servers', whereas users that download without sharing their own files are generally referred to as 'leeches'. While serving normally implies pirated or questionable material, some channels are used for fully legitimate reasons. There are two styles of servers, Fserves, and serving scripts like OmenServe.\n\nUsing an Fserve script, a server is set up like an FTP. Using CTCP commands and server triggers, a user can initiate a connection with the server. Once connected, the user will be given realtime access to a server's file archive.\n\nOnce a leech has gained access to a server's Fserve, they can navigate through folders using commands similar to DOS. Once inside a folder, the user is able to retrieve a listing of what files are found there.\n\nTo request a file, the user enters a filename from the folder display listing, along with the \"codice_4\" command.\n\nUsing a serving script, servers have the ability to send files directly to another user using remote commands. The serving script compiles a listing of available files, and also listens for a leech to request a file. Serving scripts also allow for a user to search all of the servers in a channel at the same time with a single command.\n\nA user initiates a search by typing a 'search command' followed by a 'search string' within the channel window. Various search commands exist, including '@find', '@search', and '@seek', depending on what serving script is being used. Wildcard characters such as * can also be used in the search string to simplify a search. The search command will then return a list of files to the user's query window if any servers have a file that matches the search string.\n\nIf there are any matches for the user's search string, the next step is to request those files from the server. The user can copy and paste the returned match, along with a short trigger command, from the query window directly into the channel window. The request is then placed in a file queue within the serving script, and downloaded on a first-come, first-served basis.\n\nUsers also have the ability to download the complete archive of a server's available files, commonly called a \"list\" due to the .txt format that the script's output code creates. To request a server's list, there is a separate 'list trigger' used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2168344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2168344", "title": "Sham marriage", "text": "Sham marriage\n\nA sham marriage or fake marriage is a marriage of convenience entered into purely for the purpose of gaining a benefit or other advantage arising from that status. While referred to as a \"sham\" or \"fake\" because of its motivation, the union itself is still legally valid if it conforms to the formal legal requirements for marriage in that country. Arranging or entering into such a marriage to deceive public officials is itself a separate violation of the law of some countries. In the United States, sham marriage for purposes of immigration fraud is a felony.\n\nAfter a period, a couple often divorces if the marriage is no longer necessary or useful.\n\nSham marriages are distinct from marriage fraud, which is a type of romance scam, in which one spouse is unwittingly taken advantage of by the foreign spouse who feigns romantic interest, typically in order to obtain a residence permit or for money.\n\nCommon reasons for sham marriages are to gain immigration, residency, work or citizenship rights for one or both of the spouses, or for other benefits.\n\nThere have been cases of people entering into a sham marriage to avoid suspicion of homosexuality or bisexuality. For example, Hollywood studios had allegedly requested homosexual actors, such as Rock Hudson, to conceal their homosexuality in a so-called lavender marriage.\n\nSince the introduction of stricter modern immigration laws in First World countries, sham marriages have become a common method to allow a foreigner to reside, and possibly gain citizenship, in the more desirable country of the spouse. The couple marries with knowledge that the marriage is solely for the purpose of obtaining the favorable immigration status. This is frequently arranged as a business transaction (i.e., a substantial sum of money is paid) and occurs more commonly with foreigners already in the country. United States immigration law considers this to be fraudulent, imposing a penalty of a $250,000 fine and five-year prison sentence on the citizen, and deportation of the foreigner, for such marriages not made in good faith. The INS and the Justice Department say that they do not have accurate numbers on the rate of attempted marriage fraud. In the 2009 fiscal year, 506 of the 241,154 petitions filed were denied for suspected fraud, a rate of less than 0.09%.\nThe UK Border Agency issued guidance to clergy in April 2011 to help prevent weddings for visas. English and Welsh clergy may perform a marriage, according to the law there. They have been advised not to offer to publish banns for any marriage which involves someone from outside Europe. Instead, the couple will be asked to apply for a license and if a member of the clergy is not satisfied that a marriage is genuine, they must make that clear to the person responsible for granting the licence.\n\nIn Ireland in August 2010, it was claimed that sham marriages account for one in six marriages, residency status in the European Union and circumventing immigration rules.\n\nDefinitions of sham marriage vary by jurisdiction, but are often related to immigration. According to a 2013 Home Office document in the UK:\n\nIn Canada, legislation on sham marriages has been strengthened in 2012. Yet, there has been continuous controversy regarding the issue. The Canadian officials have been accused both of being too harsh and harassing couples and of being too lenient in deciding what is a genuine relationship.\nIn addition, there have been objections to the policy from women's organizations who have argued that the new policy which requires the sponsor and the new spouse to live in a \"genuine relationship\" for two years endangers women who are victims of domestic violence. Although there is an exception to this rule in cases of abuse, the policy has been accused of being too weak (as abuse is difficult to prove).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11452064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11452064", "title": "Solar Ark", "text": "Solar Ark\n\nThe Solar Ark (ソーラーアーク) is an ark-shaped solar photovoltaic power generation facility which offers activities to cultivate a better appreciation of solar power generation, and thereby benefitting both ecology and science. This 315-meter-wide, 37-meter-tall facility is located in Anpachi, Gifu Prefecture, in the geographical center of Japan, and can be seen from the JR Tōkaidō bullet train, which runs past on an adjacent railway. It has over 5000 panels that produce approximately 530,000 kilowatt-hours on an annual basis and a maximum system power of 630 kilowatts.\n\nStationed at the center of the Solar Ark is the Solar Lab, a museum of solar energy. A hands-on, outdoor light exhibition was planned for opening in 2005. The Solar Ark was an enterprise partner with the 2005 World Exhibition, Aichi Prefecture, Japan. It is one of the largest solar buildings in the world.\n\nThe Solar Ark was constructed by Sanyo Electric Co. Its development was accidental among other things. Initially, Sanyo Electric had intended to create the largest photovoltaic system in the world, with a 3.4 megawatt output, to mark the organisation's 50th anniversary. By 1998, designers had already been in discussions about the Solar Ark’s appearance. Sanyo had planned on using cutting edge solar technology available to them at the time, using a combination of crystal silicon and thin-film amorphous silicon with 14-15% efficiency. However, during the initial planning, Sanyo had to recall several monocrystalline cells, which were the predecessors of the hybrid technology mentioned before, due to insufficient output.\n\nSanyo Electric Co. still decided to go ahead with the Solar Ark’s construction; however, instead of using the previously planned technology, Sanyo instead, used the recalled monocrystalline cells. Sanyo says “We have done this to show our sincere regret that this problem has occurred and to express our willingness and determination to both remember what happened and how important it is to maintain quality.” Construction was completed in December 2001.\n\nPanasonic acquired Sanyo, and as part of its corporate restructuring and re-branding strategy, the red Sanyo logo on the Solar Ark was replaced with a blue Panasonic logo in August 2011.\n\nThe Solar Ark's design was inspired by the vision of an ark embarking on a journey to the 21st century. This idea led to the Solar Ark’s size and overall symbolic shape of being an example of producing clean energy. In total, the construction area for the Solar Ark is 3294.48 m reinforced concrete was used for the base of the construction. From one end to the other, the total length of the Solar Ark is 315 metres. The ark is 31.6 metres tall from the centre of the structure. There are 5,046 solar panels in total. Twelve single-crystal silicon solar cell modules per unit were assembled on the ground, and 470 units were lifted up and attached to the main body of the Solar Ark.\n\nThe weight of the actual body of the ark (pillars being excluded) is 3,000 metric tonnes and is constructed from structural steel. This construction material helps give the impression of the solar ark being suspended in the air. Each column is 2 metres in diameter and 31 meters in length and the Solar Ark is 315 metres long. The entire Solar Ark chassis is supported by four “G-Columns” which are custom built pillars by Kubota and in total, these pillars weigh approximately 5,000 tonnes. These high-quality pillars are homogeneous, the result of the seamless method of construction that utilizes centrifugal force. Due to the Solar Ark's sturdy building materials, the Ark is able to resist winds of up to 34 meters/second and level 7 earthquakes on the Japanese scale.\n\nThe ark is surrounded by 5-meter high water fountains and two ponds, each having their own cascade. The entrance to the Solar Ark has solar wings which are composed of HIT solar cells that generate electricity on the topside and underside while also functioning as awnings that allow sunlight to filter through. Between the individual solar panels, there are, in total, 75,000 red, green, and blue computer controlled LEDs which are activated at night to produce images and words across the ark.\n\nThe Solar Energy Museum is structurally separate from the Solar Ark itself. It is officially called the solar lab. It is a museum and exhibition centre that mostly provides information about solar energy. There are several exhibitions, workshops and science classes held at the solar lab, which are primarily aimed at the younger generations, to help them become more aware of the photovoltaic science and how it impacts the world. The solar lab is divided into ten zones that provide a wide range of activities for visitors. Some of these activities include a solar system simulator, an adventure wall, an artistic approach to the sun, a solar library and a control deck, where visitors can view real time data related to the power being generated by the Solar Ark.\n\nThe Solar Ark has received several awards and notable achievements during its operation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28855663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28855663", "title": "Somyot Chueathai", "text": "Somyot Chueathai\n\nSomyot Chueathai (; born 1950) is a Thai academician, constitutional law and public law professor and 15th dean of the Faculty of Law, Thammasat University, the oldest faculty of law in the country.\n\nAfter graduating from the Faculty of Law, Thammasat University, as a Bachelor of Laws \"(honoris causa)\", Somyot became a member of the Thai Bar Association. Following that, he studied abroard in Germany, where he has been conferred a public law certificate by the University of Bonn.\n\nAfter completing education courses in Germany, Somyot became a civil servant of Thammasat University, where he served as a public law lecturer until his retirement in 2012. Chueathai had been the Thammasat University Deputy Rector for Student Affairs, the President of the Thammasat Law Association (2004–2008), the Director-General of the Legal Centre (2009), a member of the Council of State (2009–present), etc.\n\nDuring his tenure as the President of the Thammasat Law Association, Somyot had for many times launched public campaigns against Thaksin Shinawatra, then Prime Minister, calling for impeachment of Thaksin on account of the series of corruption and conflict of interest scandals. In 2006, Thaksin decreed the dissolution of the House of Representatives. Somyot issued the following statement:\n\n\"According to the democratic principles, the dissolution of the House of Representatives is the power the Executive Branch may exercise in order to solve the crisis between the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly or the problems of the House of Representatives itself. [...] But, this time, the dissolution of the House has been decreed and the new election has been fixed urgently. It raises a question as to whether Mr Thaksin has exercised the executive power to wash himself before coming back to the power. [...]\"\n\nFollowing the military coup against Thaksin in 2006 and the promulgation of the new Constitution in 2007, Somyot stated that he once foretold that the new constitution will be unlikely to solve any problems in the country, but no one pays attention to the words of a public law instructor like him because everyone wants to have a new election taken place without delay. Somyot then declared that he ceased to teach constitutional law from that time onwards. He said:\n\n\"The upcoming problems are judicial activism. The 2007 Constitution has bound the judges with political affairs. This will result in serious worries, because the heart of the Constitution should be the separation of powers. [...] When the courts are empowered to interfere with the politics, a chaos will ensue. [...]\n\n\"Today, the Constitution is treated as a scapegoat. It is like a house which has been taken to pieces by its residents in order to build up a new one which is in good odour with them. But, a newly built house will never serve their wish and will then be taken down again and again, until the residents see the true problem of the house — a little leak somewhere on the roof or elsewhere. [...] Section 309 of the Constitution will cause the return of a new coup and a new coup and a new coup, over and over. The section is like a son that kills his own father, because it is bigger than the Constitution. Now, I'd like to tell you that I won't teach constitutional law anymore, because I cannot accept section 309.\"\n\nSomyot has produced many prominent academic works, all of which could be viewed at the Office of the Libraries, Thammasat University.\n\nAs for his personal life, Somyot is a football player. He has played football since he was a student at the Faculty of Law, Thammasat University. During his tenure at Thammasat, Somyot also served as a manager of the University football team and usually plays football with his students in his spare time.\n\nSomyot is usually called by his students as \"Ong Dam\" (องค์ดำ), which means \"Black Deity,\" due to his proficiency and his dark skin. While Kaewsan Atibodhi, former lecturer at the same faculty, is called \"Ong Khao\" (องค์ขาว), meaning \"White Deity\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19000984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19000984", "title": "Terence Yung", "text": "Terence Yung\n\nTerence Yung (born Hong Kong, China) is an award-winning classical pianist.\n\nAt the age of five, Terence, who had perfect pitch, was found playing melodies by ear. Terence, who grew up in the United States, studied privately with Eleanor Sokoloff of the Curtis Institute of Music. He later trained at the Juilliard School pre-college program in New York City, where he was a scholarship student of Frank Lévy. He continued his studies with Abbey Simon at the University of Houston in Texas on a music scholarship and Pell grant. While at the university, he taught students from families of extreme poverty at the Yellowstone Academy in the Third Ward part of Houston as part of its urban outreach initiatives. He graduated in 2012 with a Bachelor of Arts from the Department of English and a Bachelor of Music from the Moores School of Music, taking summer courses at the neighboring Houston Community College. He also took lessons with Garrick Ohlsson and Philippe Entremont\n\nUpon graduation, he worked as a translator and for a law firm in the Philadelphia metro area before enrolling at the University of Texas School of Law in Austin, Texas where he was seeking his Juris Doctor degree. He did not complete his Juris Doctor degree.\n\nMr. Yung has appeared as a recitalist, chamber-musician, and soloist with orchestras throughout the United States including performances in Philadelphia, New York City, Seattle, and Houston, as well as abroad in Spain and France. He made his first public appearance at the age of 6. At age 11, he was asked to perform Beethoven's \"Waldstein\" Sonata at the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts' Master Class Series. At age 13, he made his professional début with the Delaware Symphony Orchestra at the Grand Opera House Youth Concert Series.\n\nNotable venues include the Kimmel Center in Philadelphia, the Teatro de Puigcerdá, the Grand Opera House in Delaware, Benaroya Hall, Yamaha Salon, Steinway Hall in New York City, the Kosciuszko Foundation, and the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston. He has also appeared at a number of international music festivals including the Puigcerdá International Music Festival, the International Keyboard Institute and Festival at Mannes College, the Seattle International Piano Festival, and the International Piano Festival in Houston. His recordings and interviews have been broadcast by radio and television throughout the United States and abroad.\n\nYung has been the subject of a number of interviews by Ming Pao Daily News and Global Chinese Times as well as French Public News as an outstanding young talent from Hong Kong. Mr. Yung has been an advocate for the education and outreach of classical music. He is affiliated with Sing For Hope, volunteering with its Healing Arts initiative to bring the gift of music to doctors and patients at the Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City.\n\nYung is a Young Steinway Artist.\n\nHo Ka Terence Yung made headlines when he pled guilty to terrorizing admissions interviewer after being rejected from Georgetown Law. Yung embarked on an 18-month cyberstalking campaign, including publishing online ads directing people interested in violent sexual activity to the victim's house. Yung's sentencing is scheduled for February 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "32440205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32440205", "title": "Trading with the enemy", "text": "Trading with the enemy\n\nTrading with the enemy is a legal term of English origin that is used with a number of related meanings. It refers to:\n\nThe statutory offence is now created by section 1 of the Trading with the Enemy Act 1939.\n\n"}
{"id": "26351744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26351744", "title": "Transport Act 1981", "text": "Transport Act 1981\n\nThe Transport Act 1981 was an Act of Parliament in the United Kingdom. Amongst other items it introduced the compulsory wearing of seat belts for front seat passengers for a trial period of three year.\n\nThe major part of the act was for re-organising the British Transport Docks Board which led to its eventual privatisation.\n\nThe Act received Royal Assent 31st July 1981 . \n\nPart II of the act renamed the British Transport Docks Board as Associated British Ports and made it a subsidiary a holding company limited by shares to be issued by the Secretary of State or their agents, thus making its privatisation possible.\n\nIt had been compulsory to fit front seat belts to cars built in Europe since 1965 and to all new cars sold in the UK since 1967. The Clunk Click\" TV commercials, starring Jimmy Savile showing the dangers of being thrown through the windscreen in a collision was shown during the 1970s. Attempts were made to making the wearing of front seat belts compulsory into a Road Traffic Bill in 1973-4 but was unsuccessful. John Gilbert, the Minister of Transport proposed a 'Road Traffic (Seat Belts) Bill' in 1976 but it was also unsuccessful. Four further attempts at legislation were made by a number of MPs including William Rodgers and Neil Carmichael before Lord Nugent (who was also the president of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents) was finally successful, initially by proposing a private member's bill, and then by adding it as an amendment to the Transport Bill in the House of Lords. The House of Commons voted to accept the amendment on 28 July 1981.\n\nThe act included clauses for:\n\nFollowing the three-year trial the compulsory wearing of seat belts was made permanent when both Houses of Parliament voted 'overwhelmingly' to retain the requirement. Legislation was subsequently introduced for the compulsory fitting of seat belts to the rear of cars (1987), for children to wear seat belts in the back (1989), and then adults(1991). Seat belts were required for minibuses and coaches carrying school children (1996) and for all coaches (2001).\n\n"}
{"id": "1593032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1593032", "title": "Treaty of Ancón", "text": "Treaty of Ancón\n\nThe Treaty of Ancón was signed by Chile and Peru on October 20, 1883, in the Ancón District near Lima. It was intended to settle the two nations' remaining territorial differences at the conclusion of their involvement in the War of the Pacific and to stabilise post-bellum relations between them.\n\nUnder the treaty's terms, Chile gained control over Tarapacá. Chile was also to retain the conquered provinces of Tacna and Arica for ten years, after which their fate was to be decided by a plebiscite. The plebiscite was never held.\n\nFinally, in 1929, through the mediation of the United States under President Herbert Hoover, an accord was reached. Under the Tacna-Arica compromise, Chile kept Arica, while Peru regained Tacna and received USD $6 million indemnity and other concessions.\n\nAnother important provision in the treaty said that Chile could not cede sovereignty of former Peruvian territories to other nations without asking Peru first. The Chapter has been invoked once, during the Chilean proposal of 1975 that offered Bolivia sovereignty over some minor ports. The Peruvian government rejected the proposed land swap.\n"}
{"id": "24184214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24184214", "title": "Treaty of Tokehega", "text": "Treaty of Tokehega\n\nThe Treaty of Tokehega is a 1980 treaty between New Zealand and the United States that delineates the maritime boundary between Tokelau and American Samoa.\n\nThe treaty was signed in Atafu on 2 December 1980. It specifies the ownership of certain islands and creates a boundary of seven straight-line maritime segments defined by eight individual coordinate points. The treaty was signed shortly after the United States resolved its boundary dispute with the Cook Islands by agreeing to the Cook Islands – United States Maritime Boundary Treaty.\n\nThe treaty states that the United States has sovereignty over Swains Island. This island, known to many in Tokelau as \"Olohega\", gives its name to the second half, \"hega,\" of the treaty's name. The first half, \"Toke,\" comes from Tokelau.\n\nThe treaty came into effect on 3 September 1983 after it was ratified by both states.\n\n"}
{"id": "52130774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52130774", "title": "Turkish constitutional referendum, 2017", "text": "Turkish constitutional referendum, 2017\n\nA constitutional referendum was held throughout Turkey on 16 April 2017 on whether to approve 18 proposed amendments to the Turkish constitution that were brought forward by the governing Justice and Development Party (AKP) and the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP). If approved, the office of the Prime Minister would be abolished and the existing parliamentary system of government would be replaced with an executive presidency and a presidential system. The number of seats in Parliament was proposed to be raised from 550 to 600 while the president was proposed to be given more control over appointments to the Supreme Board of Judges and Prosecutors (HSYK). The referendum was held under a state of emergency that was declared following a failed military coup attempt in July 2016.\n\nEarly results indicated a 51–49% lead for the \"Yes\" vote. In an unprecedented move, the Supreme Electoral Council (YSK) allowed non-stamped ballots to be accepted as valid. Some opposers to the reform decried this move to be illegal, claiming that as many as 1.5 million ballots were unstamped, and refused to recognize the results. Large-scale protests erupted following the results in order to protest the YSK's decision. In subsequent reports, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) and Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) both criticised unfairness during the campaign and declared the YSK's decision to be illegal.\n\nAn executive presidency has been a long-standing proposal of the governing AKP and its founder, the current President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. In October 2016, the Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) announced its co-operation for producing draft proposals with the government, with the combined support of both AKP and MHP MPs being sufficient to put forward the proposals to a referendum following a parliamentary vote in January. Those in favour of a 'Yes' vote argued that the changes were necessary for a strong and stable Turkey, arguing that an executive presidency would bring about an end to unstable coalition governments that had dominated Turkish politics since the 1960s up until 2002. The 'No' campaign have argued that the proposals would concentrate too much power in the hands of the President, effectively dismantling the separation of powers and taking legislative authority away from Parliament. Critics argued that the proposed system would resemble an 'elected dictatorship' with no ability to hold the executive to account, leading effectively to a 'democratic suicide' and autocracy. Three days before the referendum, one of Erdoğan's aides called for a federal system should the 'Yes' vote prevail, causing a backlash from the pro-Yes MHP. Both sides of the campaign have been accused of using divisive and extreme rhetoric, with Erdoğan accusing all 'No' voters of being terrorists siding with the plotters of the failed 2016 coup.\n\nThe campaign was marred by allegations of state suppression against 'No' campaigners, while the 'Yes' campaign were able to make use of state facilities and funding to organise rallies and campaign events. Leading members of the 'No' campaign, which included many high-profile former members of the MHP such as Meral Akşener, Ümit Özdağ, Sinan Oğan, and Yusuf Halaçoğlu were all subject to both violence and campaign restrictions. The 'Yes' campaign were faced with campaigning restrictions by several European countries, with the German, Dutch, Danish and Swiss governments all cancelling or requesting the suspension of 'Yes' campaign events directed at Turkish voters living abroad. The restrictions caused a sharp deterioration in diplomatic relations and caused a diplomatic crisis between Turkey and the Netherlands. Concerns were also raised about voting irregularities, with 'Yes' voters in Germany being caught attempting to vote more than once and also being found to have been in possession of ballot papers before the overseas voting process had started. European election monitors said the vote did not meet international standards.\n\nIntroducing a presidential system was proposed by then-Minister of Justice Cemil Çiçek and backed by then-Prime Minister Erdoğan in 2005. Since then, the current presidential system has been openly supported by Justice and Development Party leaders several times, along with a \"new constitution\". Justice and Development Party vice-president Hayati Yazıcı proposed April 2017 as a date for the referendum.\n\nOn 10 December 2016, the AKP and MHP brought forward a total of 21 proposed amendments to the constitution and began collecting signatures from MPs in order to begin the parliamentary procedures for initiating a referendum. After Assembly Commission talks, 3 proposals were withdrawn, leaving 18 amendments remaining. The full-text proposal in Turkish and the present Turkish constitution are found at the following links. The most important changes have been highlighted by the Union of Turkish Bar Associations.\n\nAn English-language summary and interpretation of the 18 amendments is listed in the table below.\n\nAfter being signed by the AKP's 316 MPs, the 21 proposed changes were submitted to the Speaker of the Grand National Assembly and were then referred to the Parliamentary Constitutional Commission. The Parliamentary Constitutional Commission, headed by AKP MP Mustafa Şentop, began scrutinising the proposals in December 2016, earlier than the planned date of January 2017. The Constitutional Commission is formed of 25 Members of which 15 are from the AKP, 5 are from the CHP, 3 are from the HDP and 2 are from the MHP, as per the composition of parliament. Since the AKP held a large majority of the commission's seats, it was expected by media commentators that there would be minimal surprise developments at the scrutiny stage. Debates in the commission were heated, with occasional fights being observed between MPs.\n\nThe Constitutional Commission has the power to amend or reject the proposed changes before they are put to a vote for all MPs. The Commission made minor changes to numerous proposals, such as raising the number of members of the Supreme Board of Judges and Prosecutors from 12 to 13. So far, the commission has rejected three of the 21 proposed changes, reducing the constitutional package from 21 proposals to 18. The 5th proposal, which created 'reserve MPs' to take the parliamentary seats that fall vacant between elections, was controversially rejected with just three signatures, well short of the support of 25 commission members or 184 total MPs necessary. It was reported that AKP MPs opposed the creation of 'reserve MPs' on the grounds that it threatened the security of sitting MPs by incentivising reserves to incapacitate them in order to take their seat. The 15th proposal that gave the President the right to structure the civil service and state institutions through executive decrees was also rejected. A day later on 29 December, the 14th proposal which gave the right for the President to appoint senior bureaucratic officials was rejected.\n\nThe Commission completed the approval process on 30 December, rejecting 3 of the 21 proposals in total.\n\nFollowing the completion of the Constitutional Commission hearings, the 18 proposals were presented to parliament for ratification. Constitutional amendments need a three fifths majority (330 votes) to be put forward to a referendum and a two-thirds majority (367 votes) to be ratified directly. Justice and Development Party (AKP) officials claimed before the vote that even if the 367-threshold was reached, the government would not ratify the changes without a referendum.\n\nParliament voted on each of the 18 proposals separately in two rounds. The first round served as an indicator of whether the amendments would gather sufficient support, with amendments being proposed by all parties present in the chamber. In the second round, parties are no longer permitted to propose changes to the proposals. The results of the second round are taken into account, with 330 votes needed to send them to a referendum or 367 for direct implementation. A final vote on all of the approved proposals at large, with the same thresholds, was undertaken at the end of the second round, with the entire process being disbanded if votes in favour fell below 330.\n\nOf the total 550 Members of Parliament, 537 were entitled to a vote. 11 MPs from the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) were under arrest for terrorism charges and were unable to partake in the vote, with the remaining 48 HDP MPs boycotting the vote after their motion calling for the arrested MPs to be brought to parliament to vote was rejected. The Parliamentary Speaker İsmail Kahraman, who is unable to take part in the vote by virtue of being the Speaker, was hospitalised during the vote, meaning that AKP deputy speaker Ahmet Aydın presided over the proceedings and was therefore unable to cast a vote.\n\nOf the 537 MPs eligible to vote, the AKP held 315, the CHP 133, the MHP 39, the HDP 48 and 2 were independent. Of the MHP's 39 MPs, 6 had openly stated that they would vote against the amendments, leaving the total number of MPs expected to vote 'Yes' at 348. The CHP's 133 MPs and the two independents, which consisted of Aylin Nazlıaka and Ümit Özdağ, voted 'No' while the HDP boycotted the votes.\nParliamentary voting began on 9 January, with the first round of voting being completed on 15 January. Opposition politicians criticised the rushed way in which the votes were conducted, with four to five votes taking place in a day with no adjournments. The votes were marred by numerous irregularities, with CHP Members of Parliament filming AKP MPs openly casting their vote or intimidating uncertain MPs to vote 'Yes'. The Minister of Health, Recep Akdağ, was filmed casting an open vote, which is disallowed by the constitution, and openly admitting that he had committed a crime afterwards. AKP MPs responded to attempts to film them with hostility, with fights occasionally breaking out between government and opposition MPs. CHP MP Fatma Kaplan Hürriyet was allegedly strangled by AKP Parliamentary Group Leader Mustafa Elitaş after she filmed Elitaş and Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım casting open votes. Several MPs were hospitalised, while the podium where MPs rose to make speeches was dislocated with one of its €15,000 microphones being reported as missing. The second round of voting was completed on 20 January, with all of the proposed amendments being approved. A final motion to enact the approved amendments was approved by 339 votes, surpassing the 330-vote threshold to hold a referendum but falling short of the 367-vote threshold needed to enact the amendments directly.\n\nSeveral AKP MPs voted openly for the changes, violating the constitutional requirement of a secret vote.\n\nThe amendments were received with heavy criticism from opposition parties and non-governmental organisations, with criticism focusing particularly on the erosion of the separation of powers and the abolition of parliamentary accountability. Constitutional legal experts such as Kemal Gözler and İbrahim Kaboğlu claimed that the changes would result in the Parliament becoming effectively powerless, while the executive president would have controls over the executive, legislative, and judiciary. On 4 December, the Atatürkist Thought Association (ADD), Association for the Support of Contemporary Living (ÇYDD) and the Trade Union Confederation held a rally in Ankara despite having their permissions revoked by the Governor of Ankara, calling for a rejection of the executive presidential system on the grounds that it threatened judicial independence and secular democratic values.\n\nThe amendments were initially received with mixed responses from the opposition CHP, which have long been critical of the AKP's constitutional plans. Shortly after the proposals were made public and submitted to Parliament on 10 December, Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım reported that the CHP was in agreement with 5 of the proposed changes. However, reception by the CHP was negative, with the party's deputy leader Selin Sayek Böke claiming that the proposals essentially created a \"sultanate\". Parliamentary group leader Levent Gök, one of the first to comment on the released proposals, claimed that the changes would revert 140 years of Turkish parliamentary democracy, calling on all parties to reject the proposals. Another of the CHP's parliamentary group leaders, Özgür Özel, called the proposals a \"regime change\", with the parliament being left essentially powerless in scrutinising ministers and holding them to account. Özel claimed that the AKP were unlikely to obtain the 330 votes necessary to put the changes to a referendum, stating that he would be surprised if the number of MPs voting in favour reached 275. CHP MP Selina Doğan claimed that the authoritarian nature of the proposals would effectively end Turkey's EU accession negotiations, citing the lack of any relevance to European values. CHP MP Cemal Oktan Yüksel claimed that the proposals resembled the constitution of Assad's Syria, stating that it wouldn't be a national constitution but \"Syria's constitution translated\".\n\nDespite having the nationalist MHP's official support, it was reported that Turkish nationalists were also overwhelmingly critical of both the proposals and their party's involvement in their drafting. Bahçeli, who has historically lent support to the AKP in controversial situations, was subject to criticism from all major parties for his decision to support the constitutional amendments, being described as the AKP's \"back garden\", \"life-line\" or \"spare tyre\" by critics. On 24 October 2016, 5 of the 40 MHP Members of Parliament declared that they would reject the constitutional proposals, against their party line. Ümit Özdağ, who was a leadership candidate against Bahçeli and one of the 5 MPs critical of the changes, had his party membership revoked in November. A poll released by Gezici in December showed that almost two-thirds of MHP supporters were against the proposed changes, though MHP supporters were also the most undecided amongst the other parties. On 27 December, MHP MP Kadir Koçdemir became the fifth MP from his party to publicly state his opposition to the proposals.\n\nSpeaking shortly after the proposals were released, the HDP's spokesperson Ayhan Bilgen criticised the proposed changes for being anti-democratic and against the principle of judicial independence. Citing the proposed creation of \"executive orders\" that can be decreed by the President at will without parliamentary scrutiny, Bilgen criticised the nature of the changes, calling them poorly written and an attempt to cover up constitutional violations that had taken place under the current constitution. However, on 18 December, HDP MP Kadri Yıldırım claimed that there would be no reason to reject the proposals if the changes included a separate \"status\" for Turkish Kurds and a constitutional entitlement to education for Kurdish citizens in their native Kurdish language. This led to speculation that the HDP could be convinced to support the changes by the AKP government, though the MHP would be unlikely to jointly support any changes that are also endorsed by the HDP. On 21 December, the CHP and HDP issued a parliamentary motion that would declare the proposals \"unconstitutional\", but the motion was rejected by MPs.\n\nThe changes have also received severe criticism from outside Turkey. One commentator went as far as to declare that \"if a majority votes yes, this will be the end of parliamentary democracy in Turkey.\" The NGO Human Rights Watch stated that the changes were a \"huge threat to human rights, the rule of law, and the country’s democratic future.\" \"The Economist\" concluded that \"a vote for Yes would saddle the country with an elected dictator.\" The Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, in its March 2017 Opinion on the Constitutional amendments, defined them as \"a threat to democracy\" and stressed the \"dangers of degeneration of the proposed system towards and authoritarian and personal regime\". Also, before the vote took place, the openDemocracy website reported that some European news outlets published concerns that the 2017 referendum amounted to something like an \"enabling act\" for Erdoğan.\n\nRuling party AKP and opposition MHP are the signatories of the amendments. MHP has provided their conditional support until their conditions are met.\nMain opposition CHP's initial position was to wait until the amendments were finalized. CHP leader Kılıçdaroğlu once mentioned of bringing the changes into Grand Assembly. Later, CHP decided to favor No vote and started \"Türkiye'yi Böldürmeyeceğiz\" (Turkish: \"We'll not partition Turkey\") rallies. Parliament's fourth party HDP is against the changes.\n\nThe 'Yes' campaign has been predominantly led by Justice and Development Party (AKP) politicians, as well as Nationalist Movement Party (MHP) politicians loyal to leader Devlet Bahçeli. Initially expecting a 7 February start to the campaign, the AKP eventually kicked off their official campaign on 25 February with a presentation by Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım at the Ankara sports stadium. Amid poor showings in opinion polls in February, Erdoğan reportedly asked pro-government pollsters to suspend their opinion polling until the end of March, while proposals for a joint electoral rally by both leading AKP and MHP politicians has also been proposed.\n\nThe 'Yes' campaign has been criticised for its smear campaign against individuals voting 'No', associating them with numerous terrorist organisations. Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım claiming that they would vote 'Yes' because the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) and the so-called Fethullah Gülen Terrorist Organisation (FETÖ) were voting 'No', though both organisations have historically been in favour of an executive presidency. President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan also caused controversy when he claimed that those voting 'No' were siding with the coup plotters behind the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt.\n\nAt present, the 'Yes' campaign has been conducted through electoral rallies held by Prime Minister Yıldırım, leading AKP politicians and also President Erdoğan, who has held 'public opening' rallies similar to his tactics in the June 2015 general election. MHP leader Devlet Bahçeli has conducted conferences in favour of a 'Yes' vote, with the first occurring in Konya on 12 February 2017.\n\nOn 10 March, the Great Union Party (BBP) led by Mustafa Destici announced that they would support a 'Yes' vote, bringing the total number of parties supporting 'Yes' to six. Both the BBP and MHP have suffered serious opposition to their support for a 'Yes' vote, with BBP members calling for Destici's resignation following his announcement. The MHP suffered a wave of resignations, inner-party suspensions and a rival 'No' campaign run by high-profile nationalist politicians, with opinion polls indicating that a significant majority of MHP voters intend to vote against the proposals. Most polls put the percentage of 'No' voters in the MHP at between 50% to 80%, with definite 'Yes' voters remaining at 20-25%. Politicians supporting 'No' from both the MHP and BBP have claimed that over 95% of their party supporters are favouring a 'No' vote, breaking with their party's executive decision.\n\nThe CHP unveiled their campaign logo and slogan on 28 February, using the slogan 'Geleceğim için Hayır' (translating to \"No for my future\"). The party planned their first electoral rally in Amasya, though preliminary rallies were held by party leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu on 21 December 2016 in Adana and by dissident MP Muharrem İnce on 8 March 2017 at Zonguldak. CHP MPs also made a series of overseas visits to rally support from overseas voters, with former leader Deniz Baykal holding an event in France.\n\nHigh-profile dissident MHP politicians, such as Meral Akşener, Sinan Oğan, Ümit Özdağ, and Yusuf Halaçoğlu all began a 'No' campaign based on Turkish nationalism, rivalling the MHP's official 'Yes' campaign. The dissident 'No' campaign attracted significantly higher popularity than the MHP's official 'Yes' events, with opinion polls indicating that an overwhelming majority of MHP voters intend to break the party line and vote 'No'. In addition to the MHP dissidents, the Turkish Bars Association and its President Metin Feyzioğlu and Leader of \"No\" Party Leader Tuna Bekleviç embarked on a nationwide tour, intending to meet with locals in numerous towns and villages to rally support for a 'No' vote.\n\n'No' campaigners have faced alleged government-backed coercion and suppression. On 1 March, the main opposition Republican People's Party (CHP) unveiled a 78-point report regarding irregularities and suppression of 'No' campaigners, with Deputy Leader Öztürk Yılmaz claiming that those who were campaigning for a 'No' vote faced fear and state coercion. CHP parliamentary group leader Engin Altay also criticised the government for using state funds to fund the 'Yes' campaign while repressing 'No' voters, claiming that their conduct did not allow them to talk of 'democracy'.\nAllegations of electoral misconduct, irregularities throughout the campaign and state coercion of 'No' supporters were widespread prior to, during and after the referendum. European election monitors said the referendum did not meet international standards.\n\nThe AKP government and the General Directorate of Security (police) have both been criticised for employing tactics designed to limit the campaigning abilities of 'No' supporters, through arrests, control of the media and political suppression. On 23 January 2017, university students campaigning for a 'No' vote on a commuter ferry in İstanbul were implicated by security officers for 'insulting the president', with their arrests being stopped by onboard passengers. On 31 January, Republican People's Party council member Sera Kadıgil was arrested and later freed on charges of 'insulting religious values and inciting hatred' for campaigning for a 'No' vote on social media. In Bursa, a voter who revealed that he was voting 'No' was reported to the police and later arrested. National television channels have been vastly in favour of the 'Yes' campaign. One study found that 'Yes' supporters received 90% of airtime. A Turkish court banned a pro-Kurdish Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) song which supported the \"No\" on the grounds that it contravened the constitution and fomented hatred.\n\nMunicipalities held by pro-'Yes' parties have also sought to limit the campaign events of 'No' voters by denying them rights to hold rallies in public spaces of community halls. Meral Akşener, a leading nationalist politician and one of the most prominent campaigners for a 'No' vote, was stopped from holding speeches when her campaign venues in Yalova and Edirne were abruptly shut down shortly before her events, with posters advertising her events in Eskişehir being ripped down. On 11 February while she was making a speech at a hotel hall in Çanakkale, the venue suffered a power cut and was perceived by the pro-opposition media to be a symbol of the oppressive tactics against the 'No' campaign. After initially being obstructed by riot police, attendees at the conference used their phone lights to allow the event to continue.\n\nOverseas election campaigning, even in diplomatic missions, is illegal under Turkish law. Yet, most political parties in Turkey, including CHP and the ruling AKP, have broken the law.\nIn early March, pro-'YES' campaigners, including high-profile AKP government ministers were barred from holding campaign events in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Denmark, and the Netherlands.\n\nIn Germany, local municipalities withdrew permits for Justice Minister Bekir Bozdağ's campaign event in Gaggenau and Economy Minister Nihat Zeybekçi's event in Cologne. While authorities cited security concerns, the insufficient capacities of the rented venues and irregularities in the organisational process, the Turkish government strongly condemned the cancellations and claimed that they were directly linked to an anti-Turkish agenda of the German federal government. Turkish foreign minister Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu claimed that Germany had showed 'double standards' and a disregard for 'human rights and freedom of speech' by cancelling the events. Following a negative reaction by the German federal government to a proposed rally by Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Erdoğan accused Germany of 'Nazi-style tactics', causing strong condemnation by German officials and a souring of diplomatic relations. The Turkish government also accused Germany of funding and supporting the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK), which is designated as a terrorist organisation in both countries. Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu was due to meet his German counterpart on 8 March, with scheduled campaign speeches in Hamburg also being cancelled due to irregularities with the venues. Çavuşoğlu therefore made his speech in the Hamburg consulate, despite Turkish law forbidding election campaigns in diplomatic missions. The cancellations in Germany were met by condemnation from the main opposition and pro-'No' Republican People's Party, with former leader Deniz Baykal cancelling a planned visit to Germany as a result.\n\nA diplomatic crisis occurred between Turkey and the Netherlands on 11 March, after Çavuşoğlu's official plane had its permission to land revoked mid-air ahead of a scheduled campaign speech. Later that day, Families and Social Policy Minister Fatma Betül Sayan Kaya's convoy was stopped by Dutch police, which blocked her access to the Turkish consulate in Rotterdam. Kaya was later declared persona non grata, with a regional state of emergency being declared and her convoy being asked to leave the country. Kaya was therefore forced to return to Germany, while Çavuşoğlu left for France to attend another campaign event. Violent protests by Turkish expats broke out in Rotterdam following the expulsion of both ministers, with the police making 12 arrests.\n\nThe Dutch government had previously asked Turkish ministers to refrain from campaigning in the country, fearing that divisive campaign rhetoric would sow divisions within the Turkish community. Prime Minister Mark Rutte claimed that negotiations with the Turkish government to allow a small scale speech by the minister were still ongoing, when Çavuşoğlu publicly threatened with sanctions should ministers be prevented from campaigning. It was these threats that made the situation unsolvable to the Dutch government.\n\nMany people in Turkey took the side of the Turkish government in the matter, with the pro-'No' main opposition announcing their support for the government and calling on the AKP to freeze diplomatic relations with the Netherlands. All CHP overseas campaign events were later suspended in solidarity, while the pro-'No' MHP dissident camp also expressed their condemnation against the Dutch government for their actions. \nIn the Dutch parliament all parties, except for the two-seat Denk party, supported the decisions of the Dutch Government. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan reiterated his claim that European governments that suspended campaigning were 'Nazi remnants', which the Dutch government denounced as \"unacceptable\".\n\nOn the referendum day, while the voting was underway, the Supreme Electoral Council of Turkey lifted a rule that required each ballot to have an official stamp. Instead, it ruled that ballots with no stamp would be considered valid, unless there was proof that they were fraudulent. It is stated that the mistake of the electoral board in the schools cannot cancel the constitutional right of voting of the citizens. Similar decisions have been made in the past, too. Because ballots have not only stamps but other security measures in place, it doesn't make them illegitimate. The Supreme Electoral Council filed a criminal complaint for the officials that caused the problem by not stamping the ballots. The opposition parties claim that as many as 1.5 million ballots without a stamp were accepted. Opposition parties CHP and HDP have said they will contest the results. CHP leader Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu said that lifting the rule violated Turkish law. According to Meral Akşener, \"No\" won by 52 percent. The Peoples' Democratic Party contested the election results announced by pro-government Anadolu Agency and insisted that 1.5 million votes without valid stamps should be cancelled.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51294490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51294490", "title": "Yarovaya law", "text": "Yarovaya law\n\nThe Yarovaya law (rus. \"Закон Яровой\"), also Yarovaya package/bag, refers to a pair of Russian federal bills, 374-FZ and 375-FZ, passed in 2016. The bills amend a pre-existing counter-terrorism law and separate laws regulating additional counter-terror and public safety measures. It is known to the public under the last name of one of its creators—Irina Yarovaya.\n\nAmong the amendments included an expansion of authority for law enforcement agencies, new requirements for data collection and mandatory deciphering in the telecommunications industry, and increased regulation of evangelism, including a ban on the performance of \"missionary activities\" in non-religious settings. \n\nIn April 2016 Irina Yarovaya, together with Aleksei Pushkov, and Nadezhda Gerasimova and senator Victor Ozerov introduced a project of legislation that would toughen penalties for extremism and terrorism. On 13 May 2016, the act passed after the first reading. Prior to that, it had received support from the prime minister's cabinet. On 7 July it was signed by the President of Russia, Vladimir Putin.\n\nMost of the act's amendments came into effect on 20 July 2016. Amendments that require telecom operators to store recordings of phone conversations, text messages and users' internet traffic up to 6 months were announced to come into place on 1 July 2018; however, senator Anton Belyakov has submitted a proposal to move the regulations' start date to 2023, because of the extreme amount of data storage technology needed to make fulfilling the requirements possible.\n\nThe amendments of the Yarovaya law include lengthening of prison terms for a number of criminal activities, introduction of new reasons to deny entry or departure to and from Russia, and the introduction of criminal liability for failure to report to law enforcement authorities that someone else \"has been planning, is perpetrating, or has perpetrated\" terrorist activity.\n\nThe Yarovaya amendments require telecom providers to store the content of voice calls, data, images and text messages for 6 months, and the metadata on them (e.g. time, location, and sender and recipients of messages) for 3 years. Online services such as messaging services, email and social networks that use encrypted data are required to permit the Federal Security Service (FSB) to access and read their encrypted communications.\n\nInternet and telecom companies are required to disclose these communications and metadata, as well as \"all other information necessary\" to authorities on request and without a court order.\n\nThe amendments also include new restrictions on evangelism and missionary work. The amendments add a new provision to Russia's Religion Legislation, stating that \"missionary activity\" may only be performed \"without hindrance\" at churches and other religious sites designated by the chapter. It is explicitly banned from residential buildings. \"Missionary activity\" is defined asThe activity of a religious association, aimed at disseminating information about its beliefs among people who are not participants (members, followers) in that religious association, with the purpose of involving these people as participants (members, followers). It is carried out directly by religious associations or by citizens and/or legal entities authorised by them, publicly, with the help of the media, the internet or other lawful means\". Missionary activities may not be used to pursue violations of public safety, \"the motivation of citizens to refuse to fulfil their civic duties as established by law and to commit other illegal acts\", suicide, or the refusal of medical treatment on religious grounds as aims.\n\nMissionary activities may only be performed by authorized members of registered religious groups and organizations. A group becomes ineligible to perform missionary activities if they have been banned under a court order for practicing extremism or terrorism, or have been liquidated. Foreign missionaries may only perform missionary activities after registering for a permit from a recognized religious organization. Citizens are also required to report unauthorized religious activity to the government or face fines.\n\nBecause of unprecedented data storage requirements, implementation of the law has been described as impossible and extremely expensive. The Russian Post estimated that the implementation of the law would cost the organization 500 billion rubles for initial purchases of equipment and 100 billion rubles yearly. Implementation of the law by other delivery and freight services was estimated to cost around 180 billion rubles, which is projected to cause 30–40% drop in online number of purchases. Cell service operators will need 2.2 trillion rubles to comply, which will cause a two- or threefold rise in the cost of mobile services for the consumer. Edward Snowden estimated the combined cost of implementation to be 33 billion dollars and predicted that the overall security levels will be unaffected, despite giant affiliated costs.\n\nAfter Putin signed the law, it turned out that equipment that is needed to store all the data is non-existent not only in Russia, but in the world. Because of that Putin has issued a call for government contracts to Russian companies for the required hardware and software.\n\nA number of missionaries have been subject to arrest for violating the law and, upon conviction, have been fined. Donald and Ruth Ossewaarde, independent missionaries working in Oryol, were fined 40,000 rubles (around $700), prompting the couple to leave the country; Sergei Zhuravlyov, a Ukrainian Reformed Orthodox Church of Christ representative, was arrested for engaging in preaching in St. Petersburg; and Ebenezer Tuah of Ghana, the leader of the Christ Embassy church, was arrested and fined 50,000 rubles for conducting baptisms at a sanatorium.\n\nOn 9 July 2016, Jim Mulcahy, a 72-year-old American pastor who is the Eastern European coordinator for the U.S.-based Metropolitan Community Church, was arrested and deported under the prohibition of missionary activities at non-religious sites, after advertising and holding a \"tea party\" in Samara with an LGBT group. Authorities had targeted Mulcahy under suspicions that he was planning to organize a same-sex wedding.\n\nRussia's largest telecommunication and internet companies expressed their concerns regarding the negative impacts of the law on their businesses and on the Russian economy on the whole. A Change.org petition to completely cancel Yarovaya's Act collected over 600,000 signatures. Russian Public Initiative petition has been signed more than 100,000 times. A number of protests were organized in cities, including in Novosibirsk, Yekaterinburg, Ufa, Kazan and Volgograd. A 9 August protest in Moscow has seen over 2,000 participants.\n\nThe anti-evangelism provisions of the legislation prompted an outcry of concern and opposition from Russia's Protestant minority, which makes up about 1% of Russia's population. According to experts, the law is likely to be interpreted in a way so as to block churches other than the Russian Orthodox Church evangelizing to ethnic Russians. Religious denominations with a smaller presence in Russia have long been viewed with hostility from government officials and Russian Orthodox religious authorities.The harsh new restrictions on minority religious groups were in addition to already-existing requirements under a 1997 law that mandated registration and administrative procedures which many religious groups found onerous and expensive to comply with.\n\nThomas J. Reese, the chair of the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom, said that \"Neither these measures nor the currently existing anti-extremism law meet international human rights and religious freedom standards\" and that the Yarovaya Law \"will make it easier for Russian authorities to repress religious communities, stifle peaceful dissent, and detain and imprison people.\" Faith McDonnell of the Institute on Religion and Democracy in Washington, D.C., said: \"The law doesn't do that much to defend from terrorism and only prevents Christians and others who are not [Russian] Orthodox from preaching and proselytizing.\" U.S. State Department spokeswoman Nicole Thompson wrote that: \"We believe that these new amendments will not better protect Russia’s citizens, but are rather part of a troubling Russian trend of intimidation and harassment of civil society and political activists.\"\n\nThe law exempts the government-allied Moscow Patriarchate of the Russian Orthodox Church from the measures that it applies to all other religious groups. The autonomous Russian Orthodox Church opposed the law; Archbishop Andrew Maklakov, administrator of the Russian Orthodox Autonomous Church of America, stated: \"As the Russian Federation has drifted back to its Soviet roots more and more over the past 25 years, it has increasingly sought to harass, persecute, and destroy any religious organization that it might consider competition to its own 'state church.'\"\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation, a nonprofit group that aims to defend civil liberties in the digital world, opposed the Yarovaya package, noting that \"opposition to the Yarovaya package has come from many quarters. Technical experts have been united in opposing the law. Russia’s government Internet ombudsman opposed the bill. Putin's own human rights head, Mikhail Fedotov, called upon the Senators of Russia’s Federal Council to reject the bill. ISPs have pointed out that compliance would cost them trillions of rubles.\" The EFF wrote that because Russia's ISPs, messaging services, and social media platforms \"cannot reasonably comply with all the demands of the Yarovaya package, they become de facto criminals whatever their actions. And that, in turn, gives the Russian state the leverage to extract from them any other concession it desires. The impossibility of full compliance is not a bug—it's an essential feature.\" Human Rights Watch noted the lack of judicial oversight and stated that \"these provisions would ultimately jeopardize security, while being ineffective at preventing terrorists from using encryption\" as well as \"unjustifiably expand surveillance while undermining human rights and cybersecurity.\"\n\n\n"}
