{"id": "9807980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9807980", "title": "2007 Iditarod", "text": "2007 Iditarod\n\nThe ceremonial start of the 35th annual Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race across the U.S. state of Alaska began amidst the crowds of Anchorage at 10 am (AKST) on March 3, 2007, and the start of the competitive race, or \"restart\", began at 2 pm the next day in Willow. The race followed the southern route for 1,151 mi (1,852 km) across the Alaska Range, through the sparsely inhabited Interior, along the Yukon River, and then up the coast of the Bering Sea to the city of Nome.\n\nEighty two competitors started the race. Denali, Alaska musher Jeff King returned to defend his 2006 win, and the 2005 Iditarod winner Norwegian Robert Sørlie returned after skipping the 2006 event. Both were strong favorites to win. Other contenders included 4 time winners Martin Buser and Doug Swingley. However, the race was won by Lance Mackey in 9 days, 5:08:41, with an average speed of .\n\nCeremonial start at Anchorage: The mushers departed Anchorage on March 3, 2007. One of the largest crowds ever watched as 82 teams composed of a musher and twelve dogs pulling a dogsled, left the starting chute at the corner of Fourth and D Streets, and followed the 11 mi (18 km) route through the urban center to Campbell Air Strip. The mushers were accompanied on the sled by \"Idita-riders\", the high bidders in a pre-race auction.\n\nCampbell Airstrip: After the mushers arrive at Campbell Airstrip, the dogs are transported by vehicle to the \"restart\" location at Willow.\n\nRestart at Willow: The mushers departed the Community of Willow two minutes apart, in Bib order. The first musher (Perry Solmonson, Bib 2) left on March 4 at 2:00 pm AKST, and the last (Jeremy Keller, bib 820) left 2 hr 42 min later at 4:42 pm. The teams were increased to 16 dogs each. No additional dogs could be added, but they could be left behind at any of the checkpoints along the route.\n\nYentna: Ramy Brooks (bib 5) departed Yentna in first place on March 4 at 5:20 pm. the remainder of the top 5 were Jim Lanier, Zack Steer, Cim Smyth, and Paul Gebhardt\n\nSkwentna: Aaron Burmeister who started in 47th position departed Skwentna in first place, on March 4 at 9:44 pm. The remainder of the top 5 were Robert Sorlie, Jason Barron, Rick Swenson, and three-time Yukon Quest champion Lance Mackey.\n\nFinger Lake: Four-time Iditarod winner and course record holder Martin Buser departed Finger Lake in first place, on March 5 at 4:35 am AKST. The remainder of the top 5 were Zack Steer, Jim Lanier, Cim Smyth, and Sebastian Schnuele. The field dropped to 79 teams after Butch Austin, Frank Sihler, and Jeff Holt scratched from the race.\n\nRainy Pass: Cim Smyth departed Rainy Pass at 10:05 AM AKST in first place. The remainder of the top five were Lance Mackey, Aliy Zirkle, Tim Osmar, and Ramey Smith.\n\nPoor trail and weather conditions caused eleven teams to scratch from the race. Doug Swingley and Dee Dee Jonrowe scratched on March 5. Lachlan Clark, Richard Cummins, Melanie Gould, Richard Hum, and Jacques Philip scratched on March 6. Tom Roig, Dan Huttunen, Perry Solmonson, and Scott White scratched on March 7. There were 68 teams remaining in the race.\n\nRohn: Jason Barron departed the checkpoint at the Rohn roadhouse at 8:47 PM AKST in first place. The remainder of the top five were Cim Smyth, Lance Mackey, Zack Steer, and Martin Buser.\n\nThe field dropped to 66 teams when G.B. Jones and Deborah Molburg Bicknell scratched from the race on March 9.\n\nNikolai: Lance Mackey arrived in Nikolai in first place at 8:10 am AKST on March 6. He was followed by Paul Gebhardt (11:05 am), Zack Steer (11:48 am), Aliy Zirkle (11:48 am), and Jason Barron (12:34 pm).\n\nMartin Buser departed the checkpoint in first place at 1:43 pm after only stopping for three minutes. He was followed by Lance Mackey (3:33 pm), Zack Steer (5:02 pm), Jeff King (5:12 pm), and Jason Barron (5:37 pm)\n\nThe field dropped to 65 teams when Ben Stamm scratched on March 8.\n\nMcGrath: Martin Buser arrived in McGrath at 6:47 pm and claimed the PenAir Spirit of Alaska award for being first to McGrath. He was followed by Lance Mackey (8:22 pm), Zack Steer (9:50 pm), Jeff King (10:46 pm), and Jason Barron (11:22 pm). Mackey departed McGrath fifteen minutes later at 8:37 pm in first place. He was followed by Zack Steer (10:01 pm), Jeff King (10:55 pm), Jason Barron (11:25), and Paul Gebhardt (11:34 pm) \n\nThe field dropped to 64 teams when Dave Tresino scratched in McGrath on March 9.\n\nTakotna: Lance Mackey arrived in Takotna at 10:52 pm AKST on March 6 in first place. He was followed by Zack Steer (12:05 am, March 7), Jeff King (1:14 am), Jason Barron (1:38 am), and Paul Gebhardt (1:52 am). Zack Steer left Takotna 4 minutes later at 12:09 am in first place. He was followed by Jeff King (1:27 am), Martin Buser (2:21 am), Lance Mackey (04:14 am), and Paul Gebhardt (8:13 am).\n\nOphir: Zack Steer arrived in Ophir at 2:47 am in first place. He was followed by Jeff King at 4:05 am, Martin Buser at 4:33 am, Lance Mackey at 6:50 am, and Paul Gebhardt at 10:17 am. The rest of the top 10 arrived within 9 hours and 11 minutes of the leader. Lance Mackey left Ophir in first place at same time he arrived at 6:50 am. He was followed by Paul Gebhardt at 10:24 am, Mitch Seavey at 12:45 pm, Ed Iten at 12:46, and Cim Smyth at 2:50 pm \n\nIditarod: Lance Mackey arrived in the ghost town of Iditarod in first place at 12:11 am. He won the GCI Dorothy Page Halfway Award and $4,000 in placer gold nuggets. He was followed by Paul Gebhardt at 12:17 am, Ed Iten at 6:22 am, Mitch Seavey at 6:24 am, and Tollef Monson at 8:00 am. The rest of the top ten arrived within 7 hours and 22 minutes of Mackey's time. The top twenty arrived within 28 hours and 32 minutes of Mackey's time\n\nZack Steer departed Iditarod at 9:28 pm in first place after staying for only 10 minutes. He was followed by Martin Buser at 10:48 pm, Jeff King at 12:21 am on March 9, Lance Mackey at 2:31 am, and Paul Gebhardt at 2:44 am. The rest of the top ten departed within 11 hours and 42 minutes of Steer's time\n\nThe field dropped to 63 teams when Linwood Fielder scratched from the race on March 9.\n\nShageluk: Martin Buser arrived in Shageluk in first place at 06:55 am and departed thirteen minutes later at 07:08 am. Jeff King arrived in Shageluk at 08:35 am and departed three minutes later at 08:38 am. An hour and half later, Lance Mackey arrived at 10:02 am and departs three minutes later at 10:05 am. Eight minutes later, Paul Gebhardt arrived at 11:13 am and departed at 11:15 am\n\nAnvik: Martin Buser arrived in Anvik on the Yukon River at 10:45 am in first place and was awarded the First Musher to the Yukon Award which consists of a seven course meal and $3,500 in cash. He was followed by Jeff King, Lance Mackey, Paul Gebhardt and Ramy Brooks at 12:00 pm, 1:22 pm, 1:28 pm and 5:05 pm respectively.\n\nMartin Buser departed Anvik in first after taking his mandatory eight-hour layover at 6:45 pm. Heff departed Anvik in second after his eight-hour layover at 8:00 pm. Zack Steer departed Anvik in third after staying three minutes at 8:18 pm. Lance Mackey and Paul Gebhardt departed Anvik after taking their eight-hour layover at 9:22 pm and 9:28 pm.\n\nGrayling: Martin Buser, Jeff King, Zack Steer, Lance Mackey, and Paul Gebhardt arrived in Grayling at 9:04 pm, 10:22 pm, 10:47 pm, 11:51 pm, and 12:01 am (March 10) respectively.\n\nMartin Buser, Jeff King, Lance Mackey, Paul Gebhardt, and Ramy Brooks departed Grayling at 9:06 pm, 10:32 pm, 11:56 pm, and 3:42 am (March 10). Zack Steer departed in sixth place at 4:47 am on March 10.\n\nEagle Island: Martin Buser and Jeff King arrived in Eagle Island at 6:30 am AKST and 7:50 am respectively. An hour and a half later, Paul Gebhardt and Lance Mackey arrived one minute apart at 9:34 am and 9:35 am. Zack Steer arrived 3 hours and 9 minutes later at 12:44 pm\n\nJeff King left Eagle Island at 12:55 pm and was followed by Martin Buser at 1:00 pm. Lance Mackey and Paul departed Eagle Island two minutes apart at 3:43 pm and 3:45 pm. Ken Anderson departed at 8:35 am Zack Steer took his 8-hour layover and departed at 8:44 pm in sixth position.\n\nKaltag: Jeff King arrived in Kaltag at 9:23 pm in first place. Martin Buser arrived 52 minutes later at 10:15 pm. Lance Mackey and Paul Gebhardt arrived one minute apart at 12:05 am and 12:06. Ken Anderson arrived at 5:36 am AKDT. Zack Steer arrived at 5:48 am.\n\nJeff King departed Kaltag at 4:46 am in first place. Martin Buser departed 13 minutes later at 4:59 am. Paul Gebhardt and Lance Mackey departed six minutes apart at 6:23 and 6:28 am. Zack Steer departed 4 hours and 18 hours later at 10:46 pm.\n\nUnalakleet: Jeff King arrived in the village of Unalakleet in first place at 3:35 pm. He was awarded the Wells Fargo \"Gold Coast\" Award and $2,500 in gold for being first to Norton Sound. Lance Mackey arrived 45 minutes later at 4:20 pm with Martin Buser and Paul Gebhardt arriving within 7 minutes behind him. Zack Steer arrived four hours and 31 minutes later at 8:58 pm.\n\nGebhardt was the first to depart the checkpoint at 9:00 pm. Mackey departed nineteen minutes later at 9:19 pm. Buser and King departed within two minutes of each other at 9:43 pm and 9:45 pm, respectively. Steer departed the checkpoint at 2:16 am on March 12.\n\nShaktoolik:\n\nKoyuk:\n\nElim:\n\nWhite Mountain: Lance Mackey arrived in White Mountain first place at 1:46 am AKDT. Paul Gebhardt arrived 2 hours and 38 minutes later at 4:16 am. Martin Buser arrived 5 hours and 29 minutes later at 9:45 am. Zack Steer arrived 20 minutes later at 10:05 am. Jeff King arrived 1 hour and 28 minutes later at 11:33 am.\n\nMackey, Gebhart, Buser, Steer, and King departed White Mountain after serving their mandatory 8-hour layovers at 9:46 am, 12:16 pm, 5:45 pm, 6:05 pm, and 7:33 pm respectively.\n\nSafety: Mackey arrives in Safety in 4:49 pm AKDT in first and departed five minutes later at 4:54 pm. Gebhardt arrived in second place at 7:08 pm and departed four minutes later at 7:11 pm. On March 14, Steer and Buser arrived two minutes apart at 12:36 and 12:38 pm respectively. Steer departed at 12:37 am and Buser departed at 12:41 am. Two hours later, Jeff King arrived at 2:38 am and departed four minutes later at 2:42 pm.\n\nNome: Mackey arrived under the burled arch in Nome in first place at 8:08:41 pm with a time of 9 days, 5 hours, 8 minutes, and 41 seconds. He is awarded $69,000 and a brand new Dodge pick-up truck. He was the first musher to win the Yukon Quest and the Iditarod in the same year. Gebhardt finished second two hours and 28 minutes later at 10:28:12 pm with a time of 9 days, 7 hours, 28 minutes, and 12 seconds. Steer finished third five hours and 48 minutes later at 03:46:07 with a time of 9 days, 12 hours, 46 minutes, and 7 seconds. Buser finished fourth 21 minutes after Steer at 04:07:04 with a time of 9 days, 13 hours, 7 minutes, and 4 seconds. King finished fifth two hours later at 06:05:17 am with a time of 9 days, 15 hours, 5 minutes, and 17 seconds.\n\nTwenty-three mushers have scratched from the race:\n\n\nWitnesses said they saw Ramy Brooks punch and kick some of his dogs and hit them with a ski pole when they refused to leave a checkpoint during a March 15, 2007 stage in Golovin, Alaska, less than from the finish in Nome, Alaska. Brooks denies the more serious allegations, but acknowledged \"spanking\" the dogs in his team with a trail marking lathe. One of Brooks' dogs died the day after the incident, but a necropsy could not determine why the dog died and race officials said there was no evidence that Brooks was to blame. On March 17, 2007, the judges voted unanimously to disqualify Brooks from the 2007 Iditarod.\n\nShane Goosen who has taken part in the Iditarod three times, told the Iditarod board that during the Tustumena 200 Sled Dog Race in January 2007 five people said they saw Brooks kick, hit and drag his dogs and that \"There is no doubt in my mind that he beat his dogs\" and \"It took three days to disqualify this guy, there went the credibility of the Iditarod right there — it's gone\", said Goosen. Bud Smyth, a former race marshal and Iditarod musher, criticized race officials, saying the Iditarod officials were slow to interview and tape record witnesses. Musher Perry Solmonson stated \"It is just a sad situation, I hope as a board you will have some integrity and do what is necessary for the dogs.\"\n\nChas St. George, the Director of Public Relations, stated \"If you are, by Alaska state statute,\nconvicted of animal abuse or cruelty, then you are not allowed to enter this race.\"\n\nIditarod Trail Committee President, Richard Burmeister announced on April 26, 2007, that the ongoing independent investigation being conducted by the Anchorage, Alaska law firm of Davis Wright Tremaine is not yet complete. Race officials are hoping the report will be ready for the board of directors meeting on April 26, 2007. Stan Hooley said it is unlikely the board will make an immediate decision on consequences ranging from doing nothing to a lifetime ban.\n\nOn May 18, 2007, the Iditarod Trail Committee Board of Directors announced that they had suspended Ramy Brooks for abusing his sled dogs. The suspension was for the 2008 and 2009 races, and following that Brooks was put on probation for 3 years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35814748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35814748", "title": "2011–12 in the Mexican Drug War", "text": "2011–12 in the Mexican Drug War\n\nThe Mexican organized crime groups often leave multiple bodies in public places as warnings to their rivals; these criminal groups have been fighting for the control of the drug corridors to the United States, the local drug markets in cities, extortion rackets, and human smuggling. Below are the recent massacres that have occurred in several parts of Mexico between Los Zetas and the Sinaloa Cartel, who fight to take over each other's territories. The killings are the latest \"salvo in a gruesome game of tit-for-tat in fighting\" among Mexican drug cartels.\n\nThe recent tit-for-tat fighting between Los Zetas and the Sinaloa cartel started in the fall in Veracruz, a strategic smuggling state with a giant gulf port. On 20 September 2011, two trucks containing 35 dead bodies were found at an underpass near a shopping mall in Boca del Río, Veracruz. All of the corpses were alleged to be members of Los Zetas, but it was later proven that only six of them had been involved in minor crime incidents, and none of them were involved with organized crime. Some of the victims had their hands tied and showed signs of having been tortured. According to \"El Universal\", at around 17:00 hours an undetermined number of vehicles blocked a major avenue in Boca del Río. Once the traffic stopped, armed men abandoned two trucks in the middle of the highway. They opened the doors of the trucks and pulled out the thirty-five corpses, leaving a written message behind. Other gunmen pointed their weapons at the frightened drivers. The cartel members then fled the scene.\n\nThe \"Blog del Narco\" reported on 21 September 2011 that the message was supposedly signed by Gente Nueva, an enforcer group that works for Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the top boss of the Sinaloa cartel. Nonetheless, on 27 September 2011, the Jalisco New Generation Cartel released a video claiming they had carried out these attacks against Los Zetas, and that they were planning to take over Veracruz.\n\nOn 6 October 2011 in Boca del Río, Veracruz, 36 bodies were found by the Mexican authorities in three different houses. The Mexican Navy first discovered 20 bodies inside a house in a residential neighborhood. While searching at another house they found 11 more bodies. The third and final house contained one body. Four other bodies were confirmed separately by the state government of Veracruz. A day later, Reynaldo Escobar Pérez, the State Justice Attorney General, stepped down and resigned due to the drug-violence. And a day after his resignation, 10 more bodies were found throughout the city of Veracruz. The Jalisco New Generation Cartel was also responsible for 67 killings in Veracruz on 7 October 2011.\n\nOn 11 June 2012 in the municipality of Álamo, Veracruz, 14 dismembered bodies were abandoned inside a Nissan truck on a highway near the border with Tamaulipas. Alerted by an anonymous call, the bodies were found on 8:00 p.m. on June 11, but the authorities finished picking them up at around 7:00 a.m. the next day. Security measures increased in the area after the gruesome discovery.\n\nAs a response for the killings in Veracruz, Los Zetas carried out an incursion to the state of Sinaloa on 23 November 2011 and left 26 bodies — 16 of them burned to death — in several abandoned vehicles in Sinaloa. The incident began at early hours of the morning in Culiacán, Sinaloa with the discovery of a vehicle on fire. When the police forces managed to put down the flames, they found inside the vehicle a dozen of bodies burned to death, and with wood remains on top of them. All of the victims were handcuffed. Later on at 07:00 hours, anonymous calls from civilians notified the police that another vehicle in the northern city limits of Culiacán was on fire. The vehicle on fire was a Ford Ranger, and inside were four bodies with bulletproof vests and handcuffed. During the night, 10 more bodies were found throughout several different municipalities.\n\nAgain in the state of Sinaloa on 5 June 2012, the bodies of 7 men were dumped on a street in Culiacán inside thirteen plastic bags. Initially, the Mexican authorities believed that the victims were police officers because they were wearing similar clothing to those of a special operations unit. Nonetheless, they concluded that the uniforms were not from any police agency. A message was left behind by the killers, blaming the Mexican authorities of cooperating with the Sinaloa cartel's drug boss, Joaquín Guzmán Loera, nicknamed \"El Chapo\". The banner accused President Felipe Calderón and the state authorities for protecting the Sinaloa Cartel. Claims like this are not new to the city of Culiacán; back in 2010 and 2011, banners were put up claiming the state government and police forces protected the Sinaloa cartel. Nonetheless, none of the previous cases involved leaving dead bodies along with the messages, which suggest that the killers are looking to attract more attention of a possible cartel-government collusion.\n\nAs a response for the Sinaloa cartel incursions, Los Zetas carried out a massacre as a response for the killings done by the \"Matazetas\" against them in the state of Veracruz. \nOn 24 November 2011, three trucks containing 26 bodies were found in an avenue at Guadalajara, Jalisco. All of them were male corpses. At around 7:00 pm, the police station in Guadalajara received numerous anonymous calls from civilians reporting that \"several vehicles with more than 10 bodies had been abandoned\" in a major avenue. Upon the arrival of the police forces, they found a green Dodge Caravan in the middle lane of the highway, along with a Nissan Caravan just 66 feet (20 meters) away; on the farthest right lane was a white Van. Reports mention that Los Zetas and the Milenio Cartel are responsible for the massacre of these twenty-six alleged Sinaloa Cartel members.\n\nAs a response for the 2012 Nuevo Laredo massacres, Los Zetas responded with another massacre of its own. They left the chopped-up remains of 18 bodies inside a Toyota Sienna and Ford EcoSport near the U.S. retiree communities in Chapala, Jalisco, just south of the city of Guadalajara. Eighteen heads were found along the dismembered bodies; some had been frozen, others were covered in lime, and the rest were found in an advance state of decomposition. An anonymous call alerted the police to the abandoned vehicles, which were found by the side of a highway early in the morning on 9 May 2012. They were consequently towed to government offices to unload the bodies. The Mexican authorities confirmed that a message was left behind by the killers, presumably from Los Zetas and the Milenio Cartel.\n\nThe 2011 San Fernando massacre was the mass murder of 193 people by Los Zetas drug cartel at La Joya ranch in the municipality of San Fernando, Tamaulipas, Mexico. Authorities investigating the massacre reported numerous hijackings of passenger buses on Mexican Federal Highway 101 in San Fernando, and the kidnapped victims were later killed and buried in 47 clandestine mass graves. The investigations began immediately after several suitcases and baggage were unclaimed in Reynosa and Matamoros, Tamaulipas. On 6 April 2011, the Mexican authorities exhumed 59 corpses from eight mass graves; by 7 June 2011, and after a series of multiple excavations, 193 bodies were exhumed from the mass graves in San Fernando.\n\nDismembered remains of 14 men were found in several plastic bags inside a Chrysler Voyager in the border city of Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas on 17 April 2012. All of those killed were between the ages of 30 and 35. Mexican officials stated that they found a \"message signed by a criminal group,\" but they did not release the content of the note, nor if those killed were members of Los Zetas or of the Gulf Cartel. \"CNNMéxico\" stated that the message left behind by the criminal group said that they were going to \"clean up Nuevo Laredo\" by killing Zeta members. \"The Monitor\" newspaper, however, said that a source outside law enforcement but with direct knowledge of the attacks stated the 14 bodies belonged to members of Los Zetas who had been killed by the Jalisco New Generation Cartel, now a branch of the Sinaloa Cartel. Following the attacks, the Sinaloa cartel's kingpin, Joaquín Guzmán Loera—better known as \"El Chapo Guzmán\"—sent a message to Los Zetas that they will fight for the control of the Nuevo Laredo plaza.\n\n23 bodies—14 of them decapitated and 9 of them hanged from a bridge—were discovered in Nuevo Laredo, Tamaulipas, in an escalation of brutal violence involving rival drug gangs on the U.S. border. In the first incident, at around 1:00 am on 4 May 2012, nine people were hanged from a bridge on the Mexican Federal Highway 85D with a message left behind by the killers. Horrified motorists encountered the blood-stained bodies of four women and five men hanging off a bridge. The banner left behind reportedly stated that those killed were the perpetrators of the car bomb in the city on 24 April 2012. In addition, the 9 people who were hanged on the bridge were reportedly members of the Gulf Cartel who were killed by Los Zetas for \"heating up\" their turf. In the second incident, which occurred hours later, 14 decapitated bodies were abandoned inside a vehicle in front of the Customs Agency; the severed heads were left inside several ice coolers in front of the municipal palace. The Mexican police said the second massacre could have been an act of revenge by the Gulf Cartel to Los Zetas for the earlier killings. Along with the decapitated bodies was a message allegedly signed by Joaquín Guzmán Loera, where he demanded the municipality mayor of Nuevo Laredo, Benjamín Galván, along with other municipal and state leaders and public safety officials to recognize the Sinaloa cartel's presence in the area and stop insisting he is not in the city.\n\nIn the afternoon of 7 June 2012 just outside city hall of Ciudad Mante, Tamaulipas, 14 mutilated bodies were discovered inside a parked truck. Investigators stated that the bodies were of 11 men and 3 women. The bodies are accompanied by a banner taking credit for the killings. Although unconfirmed, according to the \"Proceso\" magazine, the banner was signed by the Sinaloa Cartel and directed to Los Zetas, an organized crime group that currently controls the drug trafficking corridor of Ciudad Mante. \"Milenio\" confirmed that the Gulf Cartel had killed the 14 people, allegedly members of Los Zetas, as retaliation for the grenade attacks they had carried out in Matamoros, Tamaulipas, the headquarters of the Gulf cartel. The \"Blog del Narco\" uploaded a video on their website from an anonymous cameraman who filmed the truck and the fourteen corpses.\n\nIn response to the Gulf cartel attacks, Los Zetas responded in their kind, leaving 14 mutilated bodies inside an abandoned bus on a parking lot of a shopping center in Ciudad Mante. The bodies of ten men and four women, which were reported at around 9 a.m. on 23 June 2012, were left behind along with a banner directed to the Gulf cartel. Its message, however, was not revealed by the Mexican authorities. This gruesome discovery happened a day after several grenade attacks in the capital city of Ciudad Victoria, Tamaulipas, where eight people were injured.\n\nCiudad Mante is a sugar-cane growing community with a population of near 110,000 people, located just 250 miles south from Texas.\n\nOn 19 February 2012 at a prison in Apodaca, Nuevo León, Mexico, at least 44 people were killed, with another twelve injured. The \"Blog del Narco\", a blog that documents events and people of the Mexican Drug War anonymously, reported that the actual (unofficial) death toll may be more than 70 people. The fight was between Los Zetas and the Gulf Cartel, two drug cartels that operate in northeastern Mexico. The governor of Nuevo León, Rodrigo Medina, mentioned on 20 February 2012 that 30 inmates escaped from the prison during the riot. Four days later, however, the new figures of the fugitives went down to 29. On 16 March 2012, the Attorney General's Office of Nuevo León confirmed that 37 prisoners had actually escaped on the day of the massacre. One of the fugitives, Óscar Manuel Bernal alias \"La Araña\" (The Spider), is considered by the Mexican authorities to be \"extremely dangerous,\" and is believed to be the leader of Los Zetas in the municipality of Monterrey. Some other fugitives were also leaders in the organization.\n\nOn 13 May 2012 on the Mexican Federal Highway 40 in the municipality of Cadereyta Jiménez, 49 people were decapitated and mutilated by members of Los Zetas drug cartel and dumped by a roadside near the city of Monterrey in northern Mexico. The bodies were found in the town of San Juan in the municipality of Cadereyta Jiménez, Nuevo León, at about 4 a.m. on a non-toll highway leading to Reynosa, Tamaulipas. The forty-three men and six women killed had their heads, feet, and hands cut off, making their identification difficult. Those killed also bore signs of torture and were stuffed in plastic bags. Four days before this incident, 18 people were found decapitated and dismembered near Mexico's second largest city, Guadalajara. The discovery seems to echo several other mass murder events where the drug cartels have left large numbers of bodies in public places as warnings to their rivals. The authorities have blamed much of the violence on Los Zetas – a cartel originally set up by ex-commandos that deserted the Mexican Army in the 1990s – and the Sinaloa Cartel, an organization headed by Joaquín Guzmán Loera (a.k.a. \"El Chapo\"), Mexico's most-wanted drug lord.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52346003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52346003", "title": "2016 Chattanooga school bus crash", "text": "2016 Chattanooga school bus crash\n\nIn the afternoon of November 21, 2016, a school bus in Chattanooga, Tennessee, rolled over onto its passenger side and became wrapped around a tree. There were fatalities and injuries. The incident took place in the city's Brainerd neighborhood on Talley Road, which officials described as a \"narrow, winding road\". The bus, operated by Durham School Services, was transporting children from Woodmore Elementary School.\n\nThe bus was transporting 37 children. Five of the children died at the scene of the crash. 23 children were hospitalized, six of them in critical condition. A sixth child died two days later.\n\nThe cause of the crash is under investigation, but officials believe that the speed of the bus might have been a contributing factor. On the day after the crash, a spokesman for the Chattanooga police department reported that drugs and alcohol were not factors. According to CBS News correspondent Mark Strassmann, the mother of three children on the bus, including one who died, stated that her surviving children told her that Walker asked if they were \"ready to die\" immediately before the crash. Chattanooga police disputed the accuracy of this claim.\n\nChattanooga Officers testified during the 2016 hearing that the school bus traveled between 48 and 52 mph, in a 30 mph zone. Students had previously complained about Walker's quality of driving and the private company that he was employed under, Durham School Services, had a history of traffic accidents in Tennessee.\n\nJohnthony K. Walker, the driver, was arrested and charged with six counts of vehicular homicide, reckless endangerment, and reckless driving. On March 1, 2018, Walker was convicted of six counts of criminally negligent homicide, 11 counts of reckless aggravated assault, seven counts of assault, reckless endangerment, reckless driving and using his phone. In addition a Hamilton County Criminal Court jury convicted Walker of lesser charges for the crash. He was sentenced to four years in prison, but went free on bail pending an appeal. In June 2018, while still free on bail pending an appeal of the bus crash charges, Walker was arrested for raping a 14-year-old girl at a home where he was staying.\n"}
{"id": "25279667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25279667", "title": "Alice Cooper a Paris", "text": "Alice Cooper a Paris\n\nAlice Cooper a Paris (more commonly known as \"Alice in Paris\") is a French television special starring shock-rocker Alice Cooper.\n\nA series of music videos of songs from his then-current album \"Special Forces\" with a few songs from \"Flush the Fashion\" and some older hits mixed in, several songs were re-recorded for the special (\"Only Women Bleed\", \"I'm Eighteen\", \"Billion Dollar Babies\", \"School's Out\") and have shown up as B-sides of singles with crowd noises mixed in to give the illusion that they were live recordings. The songs are performed in English, but one brief split-screen sketch features French dialogue as radio disc jockey Vincent Furnier (Cooper's real name) interviews Alice.\n\nThere has never been an official release and, while not officially broadcast outside France, copies have been circulating amongst Alice Cooper fans for decades. Some copies are missing opening credits, leading fans to refer to it under a variety of titles, including \"Alice in Paris\", \"The Paris Special\" and \"16 Tracks\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40478909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40478909", "title": "All Together (professional wrestling)", "text": "All Together (professional wrestling)\n\nAll Together was a series of two professional wrestling events organized together by Japan's three biggest promotions; All Japan Pro Wrestling (AJPW), New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) and Pro Wrestling Noah, in response to the March 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. The first event was held in Tokyo on August 27, 2011, and the second in Sendai on February 19, 2012. All proceeds from the events were donated to Japanese Red Cross. The events featured no storylines or championship matches, instead they were booked as \"supercards\", putting together combinations of wrestlers from the three promotions that fans would normally not see.\n\nOn April 18, 2011, Yukinobu Ebata, president of the \"Tokyo Sports\" magazine, All Japan Pro Wrestling president Keiji Mutoh and top champion Suwama, New Japan Pro-Wrestling president Naoki Sugabayashi and top champion Hiroshi Tanahashi and Pro Wrestling Noah president Akira Taue and top champion Takashi Sugiura held a press conference in Tokyo's Nippon Budokan, announcing that the three promotions would be coming together for a charity event on August 27 at the same arena. All proceeds from the event would be donated to help those affected by the March 11, 2011, Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. The event marked the first time all three promotions had come together to co-produce an event and the first time since August 1979, when AJPW and NJPW had co-produced an event. The event was sponsored by \"Tokyo Sports\". Rock band Funkist composed a song named \"All Together\" for the event, which featured thirty wrestlers from the three promotions singing backing vocals. The event aired live on pay-per-view, and was later aired on tape delay on Fighting TV Samurai, Gaora, NTV G+ and TV Asahi.\n\nIn addition to AJPW, NJPW and Noah wrestlers, Kota Ibushi from DDT Pro-Wrestling and Kensuke Sasaki, Katsuhiko Nakajima, Kento Miyahara and Satoshi Kajiwara from Kensuke Office also took part in the event. American retired wrestler Dick Beyer, using his famous The Destroyer character, attended the event and presented a trophy to the winner of the Destroyer Cup. Manabu Nakanishi and Satoshi Kojima from NJPW and Naomichi Marufuji and Takeshi Rikio from Noah were forced to miss the event due to injuries. All in all, the event featured ten matches involving 82 wrestlers. The semi-main event, where AJPW wrestler Keiji Mutoh and Noah wrestler Kenta Kobashi defeated the NJPW tag team of Takashi Iizuka and Toru Yano, was later named the 2011 Match of the Year by \"Tokyo Sports\". On October 25, representatives of the three promotions handed a check of ¥58,273,560, made up of ticket, PPV and merchandise sales, to Japanese Red Cross.\n\n\nThe second All Together show, subtitled \"Mōikkai, Hitotsu ni Narō ze\" (\"Once More, Let's Become One\"), was announced at the conclusion of the first show. It was held on February 19, 2012, at the Sendai Sun Plaza Hall in Sendai, Miyagi, which was the nearest major city to the epicenter of the March 11, 2011, earthquake and suffered major damage in it and the following tsunami. Much like the first All Together, the second one also aired live on pay-per-view and on tape delay on Fighting TV Samurai, Gaora, NTV G+ and TV Asahi.\n\nThe second All Together event featured outside participation from The Great Sasuke, Jinsei Shinzaki, Kenoh and Taro Nohashi from Michinoku Pro Wrestling and Kensuke Sasaki and Katsuhiko Nakajima from Diamond Ring, the recently renamed Kensuke Office. Female wrestler and owner of the Sendai Girls' Pro Wrestling promotion, Meiko Satomura, greeted fans during the intermission. The event featured eight matches and 50 wrestlers. AJPW's Kenso and NJPW's Kazuchika Okada and Prince Devitt missed the event due to schedule conflicts.\n\n"}
{"id": "12916833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12916833", "title": "Amsterdam Film eXperience", "text": "Amsterdam Film eXperience\n\nThe Amsterdam Film eXperience, or AFX for short, is an annual filmfestival that takes place in Amsterdam. It's being organized by the AISFF (Amsterdam International Short Film Festival). AISFF used to be the name of the festival itself, but the organization decided to focus less on short film and more on the broader experience of film in all its forms, hence Amsterdam Film eXperience.\n\nEven though AFX is Amsterdam(NL)-based, the focus of the festival is mainly international. The organization of AFX consists of a varied group of people with different cultural, educational and professional backgrounds. All team members hold full-time jobs or study next to their work for the festival. Apart from the AFX core-team, the festival is made possible every year with the help of volunteers.\n\nThe first edition of AFX took place from 6 to 8 October 2006 at the old part of Het Ketelhuis (also called 'Openbare Verlichting') in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. During this first edition short films were shown in six different categories of competition:\n\nEach film that ran in competition could win one of the four awards. The following four films eventually won the prizes:\n\nThere were also films shown out of competition, some names of filmmakers running out of competition are Rosto A. D., Chris Cunningham and Virgil Widrich. They collaborated with other international filmfestivals, which resulted mainly in exchanging parts of the program and cross-promotion. Also, there was a special kids-program.\n\nAccording to AFX, the festival concerns itself not just with film, but with the broader experience of everything that has in any way to do with film. They hope to accomplish this by having a strong supporting program consisting of (video-, art-, media-)installations, workshops (e.g. Florian Thalhofer), lectures en interactive content (e.g. 15x15).\n\nBetween 2 and 4 November 2007, the festival was held at Het Ketelhuis, now in their new setting which counts three filmscreens. Also, the area around the cinema, which lies on the 'Westergasfabriek'-terrain, will be actively used for the festival. The organization hopes to offer a bigger, broader and even more compelling festival in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "54315946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54315946", "title": "April Rhapsody", "text": "April Rhapsody\n\nApril Rhapsody is a 2000 TV series written by Wang Hui-ling, based on the romantic life of Xu Zhimo, one of China's most renowned poets in the 20th century.\n\nVirtually all characters in the story are historical, but the plot deviates from history somewhat. After the series' broadcast, historian Liang Congjie blasted the show and denied his mother Lin Huiyin's relationship with Xu was anything other than platonic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "935493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=935493", "title": "Barnum (musical)", "text": "Barnum (musical)\n\nBarnum is an American musical with a book by Mark Bramble, lyrics by Michael Stewart, and music by Cy Coleman. It is based on the life of showman P. T. Barnum, covering the period from 1835 through 1880 in America and major cities of the world where Barnum took his performing companies. The production combines elements of traditional musical theater with the spectacle of the circus. The characters include jugglers, trapeze artists and clowns, as well as such real-life personalities as Jenny Lind and General Tom Thumb.\n\nThe original Broadway production ran for 854 performances and was followed by a London production, among others.\n\nIn the middle of the 19th century, Phineas Taylor (P.T.) Barnum introduces his circus acts as he stands in front of a tent, proclaiming \"There Is a Sucker Born Ev'ry Minute\". He loves spectacle and excitement, using hype and \"humbug\" to promote his exhibits. His wife Charity disagrees with his use of \"humbug\" but loves him and aims to keep him grounded. Barnum then introduces the oldest woman alive, Joice Heth, and thanks to some Barnum humbug she becomes a success (\"Thank God I'm Old\"). His wife Charity (\"Chairy\") urges him to get a job in a factory, but Barnum refuses (\"The Colors of My Life [Part One]\") and Charity wryly admits and accepts the disparity between their views (\"The Colors of My Life [Part Two]\"). Barnum enlists clowns to help in building a museum to house his attractions (with expected comical results) and it's up to Charity to encourage him to keep going (\"One Brick at a Time\"), with the result that \"everything about [his] museum was spectacular\" (\"Museum Song\"); however, the museum burns down accidentally. Barnum finds two new star attractions, Tom Thumb, who appears to advise that \"Bigger Isn't Better\", and Jumbo the elephant. Barnum then becomes manager of the famous Swedish opera singer Jenny Lind (\"Love Makes Such Fools of Us All\"). Barnum becomes enamored of her and sees the attraction of going on tour with her (\"Out There\"). He accompanies Jenny on tour, leaving Charity behind, as a marching band greets them (\"Come Follow the Band\"). Although all seems to be going well for Barnum, he finds that without Charity in his life he is miserable, and he decides to break ties with Jenny and return home to the woman he loves (\"Love Makes Such Fools of Us All [Reprise]\"). Upon his return to Charity, he promises to live the more sedate life she desires for him, in \"Black and White.\" After a failed stint running a clockworks factory and a failed attempt to build his own city, he turns to politics; when his campaign looks doomed to fail due to lack of interest, Charity realizes how important his talents and passion are in his life and allows him to inject color and life into his campaign. He is elected Mayor of Bridgeport, and the two of them recognize the value in each other's approach to life and how they complement one another (\"The Colors of My Life [Reprise]\"). Barnum is prepared to run for Senator, but his beloved Charity dies suddenly, leaving Barnum bereft and alone. When Barnum finds himself cheated of the Senatortial nomination by his political party, he laments his position, realizes that his talent for Humbug will never leave him and wishes to \"make it right, shoot a rocket, shine a light\" (\"Prince of Humbug\"). James Anthony Bailey arrives and offers him the chance to \"Join the Circus\". Initially resisting, he relents (thanks in part to Charity's two-headed coin, which she has used to humbug him throughout the show) and joins Bailey, and they form the famous circus Barnum and Bailey.\n\nIn \"a princely final attraction\", Barnum appears before the audience (\"The Final Event: There is a Sucker Born Ev'ry Minute\" [Reprise]\") and reflects on his past:\n\nThe following list was used for the Chichester and UK tour productions, although many of the chases were still used;\nAct One\n\nAct Two\n\nThe original production opened at the St. James Theatre on Broadway, on April 30, 1980, and closed on May 16, 1982, after 854 performances and 26 previews. It was directed and choreographed by Joe Layton, with scenic design by David Mitchell, costume design by Theoni V. Aldredge, and lighting design by Craig Miller. The musical starred Jim Dale as P.T. Barnum, Glenn Close as Charity Barnum, Marianne Tatum as Jenny Lind, Terri White as Joice Heth, and Terrence Mann as Chester Lyman (he also understudied Dale as Barnum). During Jim Dale's vacation in May 1981, the part of Barnum was played by Tony Orlando, and when Dale left the production in October 1981, Mike Burstyn assumed the role for the remainder of the show's run.\n\nThe show made its West End debut on June 11, 1981, at the London Palladium, where it ran for 655 performances. The London cast included Michael Crawford as P.T. Barnum, Deborah Grant as Charity Barnum and Sarah Payne as Jenny Lind. Crawford reprised his role opposite Eileen Battye in a UK Tour of the show which ran between 1984 and 1986, stopping off at various venues including the Manchester Opera House and a West End revival at the Victoria Palace Theatre. The tour was recorded for television and broadcast by the BBC in 1986. It was later released on VHS and DVD.\n\nThere was a further revival in London at the Dominion Theatre, starring Paul Nicholas and another in a circus tent in Battersea Park (where circuses run by David Smart had previously been held) starring \"Blue Peter\" presenter Peter Duncan.\n\nTwo-time Tony Award-nominee Christopher Fitzgerald starred in Cameron Mackintosh's new production of the show at the Chichester Festival Theatre from 15 July to 31 August 2013. The show was not performed at the Festival Theatre due to its refurbishment. Instead, it was performed in the Theatre in the Park, which is near the Festival Theatre. It was directed by Timothy Sheader, co-directed and choreographed by Liam Steel and co-choreographed by Andrew Wright, set design by Scott Pask, costume design by Paul Wills, lighting design by Paule Constable, sound design by Mick Potter and circus consultancy by Vicki Amedume. Alongside Christopher Fitzgerald as P. T. Barnum was Tamsin Carroll as Charity Barnum, Anna O'Byrne as Jenny Lind, Aretha Ayeh as Joice Heth and Jack North as Tom Thumb.\n\nThe production was revised by Cameron Mackintosh and Mark Bramble with a new number, \"Barnum's Lament\", replacing \"The Prince of Humbug\", slight revisions elsewhere and new orchestrations by William David Brohn.\n\nThe national tour of Cameron Mackintosh and Chichester Festival Theatre's production opened at Curve, Leicester in September 2014 and ran until August 2015. The tour starred Brian Conley in the title role, alongside Linzi Hateley as Charity.\n\nThe show will receive its first London revival at the Menier Chocolate Factory from 5 December 2017, with previews from 25 November to 3 March 2018. Gordon Greenberg will direct, with choreography by Rebecca Howell, design by Paul Farnsworth and musical direction by Alex Parker. The production will star Marcus Brigstocke in the title role, Laura Pitt-Pullford as Charity, Celinde Schoenmaker as Jenny Lind, Tupele Dorgu as Joice Heath and Harry Francis as Tom Thumb.\n\nStacy Keach played Barnum in a June 1981 production at the Kennedy Center with Dee Hoty as Charity and Terri White reprising her Broadway role as Joice Heth.\n\nInternational productions were staged in France (1981) starring Jean-Luc Moreau, Australia (1982) starring Reg Livermore, Madrid (1984) starring Emilio Aragón, Florida (2008) starring Brad Oscar.\n\nThe Original Broadway Cast recording was released in 1980 and reissued on October 25, 1990, by Sony. The London cast album \"Michael Crawford in Barnum\" was released on January 1, 1994, by Musicrama, Inc. The original Madrid cast album (starring Emilio Aragón) was released in 1984 by BAT Discos S.A. Now a collector's item, this Spanish language recording has never been released on CD. A French cast album (ZL 37467) starring Jean-Luc Moreau was released in 1981; it is unknown at this time if a CD version has been released.\n\nAn Australian cast recording was released starring Reg Livermore by RCA Victor.\n\nAccording to Don Wilmeth, \"Barnum\" \"was blessed with a brilliant production by director-choreographer Joe Layton, who turned the theatre into a circus, and a memorable performance by Jim Dale.\"\n\nThomas Hischak wrote: \"Joe Layton directed and choreographed with inventive and colorful theatrics, and [Jim] Dale endeared himself to audiences by singing, dancing, walking a tightrope, clowning, and riding a unicycle, most of which had nothing to do with anything. Critics carped but playgoers knew a fun show when they saw one so the show ran for 854 performances.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16477218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16477218", "title": "Battle of Al-Fule", "text": "Battle of Al-Fule\n\nIn the campaign and Battle of Al-Fule (in Crusader terms La Fève, Latin Castrum Fabe), a Crusader force led by Guy of Lusignan skirmished with Saladin's Ayyubid army for more than a week in September and October 1183. The fighting ended on 6 October with Saladin choosing to withdraw.\n\nIn May 1182, Saladin invaded the Kingdom of Jerusalem by way of Eilat, the Transjordan and Galilee. During the summer, he was successfully resisted by King Baldwin IV of Jerusalem in the campaign and Battle of Belvoir Castle; however, the Crusader lands were badly damaged by Saracen raiders. By September 1183, Baldwin, crippled by leprosy, could no longer function as monarch. Guy of Lusignan, who had married Baldwin's sister Sibylla of Jerusalem in 1180, was appointed regent.\n\nOn August 24, 1183, Saladin returned to Damascus, having conquered Aleppo and several cities in Mesopotamia for his empire. In September, he mounted a major invasion of the Kingdom of Jerusalem. Crossing the Jordan River, the Ayyubid host plundered the abandoned town of Baisan. Continuing west, up the Jezreel Valley, Saladin established his army near some springs about 8 km southeast of Al-Fule. At the same time, the Muslim leader sent out numerous columns to damage as much property as possible. The raiders destroyed the villages of Jenin and Afrabala, attacked the monastery on Mount Tabor and wiped out a contingent from Kerak that was trying to join the Crusader field army.\n\nExpecting an attack, Guy of Lusignan mustered the Crusader host at La Sephorie. When intelligence reports detected Saladin's invasion route, Guy marched the field army to the small castle of La Fève (Al-Fule). His army was swollen by pilgrims and Italian sailors to a size of 1,300–1,500 knights, 1,500 turcopoles and over 15,000 infantry. This was said to be the largest Latin army assembled \"within living memory.\"\n\nThe Frankish army advanced in its usual fashion toward the water points at Ain Jalut (site of a decisive Muslim victory over the Mongols in 1260) and Tubania (Ain Tuba'un). The exact formation cannot be reconstructed, except that the infantry spearmen and bowmen kept the Turkish horse archers at a respectable distance while the mounted knights launched local charges to drive away any Saracens who approached too closely. Muslim chroniclers mention how Saladin's Mamluks led by Jorduk an-Nuri and Jawili were faced with an unexpected crusader attack, but they fortified themselves at a base of a mountain and caused the crusaders to retire.\n\nThe Muslims harassed them with archery and constantly renewed attacks; these were on occasions pressed home to an extent which provoked the Franks to counter-attacks to clear their lines. As in 1111 and 1182 the Franks executed a fighting march which never quite became a pitched battle.\n\nUnable to halt his enemies or to provoke them to fight a pitched battle, Saladin withdrew his army from the springs and moved downstream. The Latin army camped around the springs and remained passive for eight days, refusing battle. The Saracens tried to incite the Franks into an attack while intercepting the Crusaders' supply convoys. Since the local Crusaders brought provisions for only three days while the pilgrims and the sailors brought none, the supply situation soon became critical. By great good luck, the Latin soldiers found quantities of fish at Ain Tuba'un and this prevented them from starving until some food convoys got through the Ayyubid blockade.\n\nSaladin then moved toward Mount Tabor, hoping to lure the Franks into an ambush. Instead, Guy retreated to La Fève. During this move, the Ayyubid army quickly returned and pounced on the Crusaders again, but they were unable to halt or disrupt the march. Saladin, also short of supplies, concluded the campaign. At this, Guy marched back to his main base at La Sephorie.\n\nFollowing long-standing Crusader policy, Guy successfully thwarted Saladin's invasion by preventing him from capturing any strongholds and by keeping the field army intact. But, as in 1182, the Saracen raiders caused extensive damage to crops and villages. Guy was harshly criticized by some for failing to fight a major battle when in command of such a large host. Others, mostly native barons such as Raymond III of Tripoli, supported his cautious strategy. They pointed out that Saladin's army was drawn up on rough ground, unsuitable for a Frankish heavy cavalry charge. Soon after this battle, Guy lost his position as regent.\n\nThe next time Guy commanded a major Crusader army, he was reminded how severely he was criticized for avoiding battle in 1183. On that occasion, he initiated an aggressive move that resulted in total disaster for him at the Battle of Hattin in 1187.\n\n"}
{"id": "2065763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2065763", "title": "Beaman Oak", "text": "Beaman Oak\n\nThe Beaman Oak was the largest white oak tree in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. It stood in the front yard of a colonial era three-story house in the town of Lancaster. It was so named because Gamaliel Beaman had originally settled the spot in 1659. The oak became known as a prominent landmark in Central Massachusetts and is featured prominently on the town seal of West Boylston.\n\nIn 1970, the Beaman Oak's circumference at its base was , with a circumference above the base of , and its height was and spread was .\n\nThe oak's trunk was partially hollow towards the end of its life. After a storm severely damaged it, the tree was cut down in 1989.\n"}
{"id": "4854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4854", "title": "Bermuda Triangle", "text": "Bermuda Triangle\n\nThe Bermuda Triangle, also known as the Devil's Triangle or Hurricane Alley, is a loosely-defined region in the western part of the North Atlantic Ocean, where a number of aircraft and ships are said to have disappeared under mysterious circumstances. Most reputable sources dismiss the idea that there is any mystery. The vicinity of the Bermuda Triangle is amongst the most heavily traveled shipping lanes in the world, with ships frequently crossing through it for ports in the Americas, Europe and the Caribbean islands. Cruise ships and pleasure craft regularly sail through the region, and commercial and private aircraft routinely fly over it.\n\nPopular culture has attributed various disappearances to the paranormal or activity by extraterrestrial beings. Documented evidence indicates that a significant percentage of the incidents were spurious, inaccurately reported, or embellished by later authors.\n\nIn 1964, Vincent Gaddis wrote in the pulp magazine \"Argosy\" of the boundaries of the Bermuda Triangle, giving its vertices as Miami; San Juan, Puerto Rico; and Bermuda. Subsequent writers did not necessarily follow this definition. Some writers gave different boundaries and vertices to the triangle, with the total area varying from . \"Indeed, some writers even stretch it as far as the Irish coast.\" Consequently, the determination of which accidents occurred inside the triangle depends on which writer reported them.\n\nThe earliest suggestion of unusual disappearances in the Bermuda area appeared in a September 17, 1950, article published in \"The Miami Herald\" (Associated Press) by Edward Van Winkle Jones. Two years later, \"Fate\" magazine published \"Sea Mystery at Our Back Door\", a short article by George X. Sand covering the loss of several planes and ships, including the loss of Flight 19, a group of five US Navy Grumman TBM Avenger torpedo bombers on a training mission. Sand's article was the first to lay out the now-familiar triangular area where the losses took place. Flight 19 alone would be covered again in the April 1962 issue of \"American Legion\" magazine. In it, author Allan W. Eckert wrote that the flight leader had been heard saying, \"We are entering white water, nothing seems right. We don't know where we are, the water is green, no white.\" He also wrote that officials at the Navy board of inquiry stated that the planes \"flew off to Mars.\" Sand's article was the first to suggest a supernatural element to the Flight 19 incident. In the February 1964 issue of \"Argosy\", Vincent Gaddis' article \"The Deadly Bermuda Triangle\" argued that Flight 19 and other disappearances were part of a pattern of strange events in the region. The next year, Gaddis expanded this article into a book, \"Invisible Horizons\".\n\nOthers would follow with their own works, elaborating on Gaddis' ideas: John Wallace Spencer (\"Limbo of the Lost\", 1969, repr. 1973); Charles Berlitz (\"The Bermuda Triangle\", 1974); Richard Winer (\"The Devil's Triangle\", 1974), and many others, all keeping to some of the same supernatural elements outlined by Eckert.\n\nLawrence David Kusche, author of \"The Bermuda Triangle Mystery: Solved\" (1975) argued that many claims of Gaddis and subsequent writers were often exaggerated, dubious or unverifiable. Kusche's research revealed a number of inaccuracies and inconsistencies between Berlitz's accounts and statements from eyewitnesses, participants, and others involved in the initial incidents. Kusche noted cases where pertinent information went unreported, such as the disappearance of round-the-world yachtsman Donald Crowhurst, which Berlitz had presented as a mystery, despite clear evidence to the contrary. Another example was the ore-carrier recounted by Berlitz as lost without trace three days out of an \"Atlantic\" port when it had been lost three days out of a port with the same name in the \"Pacific\" Ocean. Kusche also argued that a large percentage of the incidents that sparked allegations of the Triangle's mysterious influence actually occurred well outside it. Often his research was simple: he would review period newspapers of the dates of reported incidents and find reports on possibly relevant events like unusual weather, that were never mentioned in the disappearance stories.\n\nKusche concluded that:\n\nIn a 2013 study, the World Wide Fund for Nature identified the world's 10 most dangerous waters for shipping, but the Bermuda Triangle was not among them.\n\nWhen the UK Channel 4 television program \"The Bermuda Triangle\" (1992) was being produced by John Simmons of Geofilms for the \"Equinox\" series, the marine insurance market Lloyd's of London was asked if an unusually large number of ships had sunk in the Bermuda Triangle area. Lloyd's determined that large numbers of ships had not sunk there. Lloyd's does not charge higher rates for passing through this area. United States Coast Guard records confirm their conclusion. In fact, the number of supposed disappearances is relatively insignificant considering the number of ships and aircraft that pass through on a regular basis.\n\nThe Coast Guard is also officially skeptical of the Triangle, noting that they collect and publish, through their inquiries, much documentation contradicting many of the incidents written about by the Triangle authors. In one such incident involving the 1972 explosion and sinking of the tanker , the Coast Guard photographed the wreck and recovered several bodies, in contrast with one Triangle author's claim that all the bodies had vanished, with the exception of the captain, who was found sitting in his cabin at his desk, clutching a coffee cup. In addition, \"V. A. Fogg\" sank off the coast of Texas, nowhere near the commonly accepted boundaries of the Triangle.\n\nThe NOVA/Horizon episode \"The Case of the Bermuda Triangle\", aired on June 27, 1976, was highly critical, stating that \"When we've gone back to the original sources or the people involved, the mystery evaporates. Science does not have to answer questions about the Triangle because those questions are not valid in the first place ... Ships and planes behave in the Triangle the same way they behave everywhere else in the world.\"\n\nSkeptical researchers, such as Ernest Taves and Barry Singer, have noted how mysteries and the paranormal are very popular and profitable. This has led to the production of vast amounts of material on topics such as the Bermuda Triangle. They were able to show that some of the pro-paranormal material is often misleading or inaccurate, but its producers continue to market it. Accordingly, they have claimed that the market is biased in favor of books, TV specials, and other media that support the Triangle mystery, and against well-researched material if it espouses a skeptical viewpoint.\n\nPersons accepting the Bermuda Triangle as a real phenomenon have offered a number of explanatory approaches.\n\nTriangle writers have used a number of supernatural concepts to explain the events. One explanation pins the blame on leftover technology from the mythical lost continent of Atlantis. Sometimes connected to the Atlantis story is the submerged rock formation known as the Bimini Road off the island of Bimini in the Bahamas, which is in the Triangle by some definitions. Followers of the purported psychic Edgar Cayce take his prediction that evidence of Atlantis would be found in 1968, as referring to the discovery of the Bimini Road. Believers describe the formation as a road, wall, or other structure, but the Bimini Road is of natural origin.\n\nOther writers attribute the events to UFOs. This idea was used by Steven Spielberg for his science fiction film \"Close Encounters of the Third Kind\", which features the lost Flight 19 aircrews as alien abductees.\n\nCharles Berlitz, author of various books on anomalous phenomena, lists several theories attributing the losses in the Triangle to anomalous or unexplained forces.\n\nA paranormal explanation in the 2005 three-part US-British-German science fiction miniseries \"The Triangle\", says the triangle is a wormhole.\n\nCompass problems are one of the cited phrases in many Triangle incidents. While some have theorized that unusual local magnetic anomalies may exist in the area, such anomalies have not been found. Compasses have natural magnetic variations in relation to the magnetic poles, a fact which navigators have known for centuries. Magnetic (compass) north and geographic (true) north are exactly the same only for a small number of places – for example, , in the United States, only those places on a line running from Wisconsin to the Gulf of Mexico. But the public may not be as informed, and think there is something mysterious about a compass \"changing\" across an area as large as the Triangle, which it naturally will.\n\nThe Gulf Stream is a major surface current, primarily driven by thermohaline circulation that originates in the Gulf of Mexico and then flows through the Straits of Florida into the North Atlantic. In essence, it is a river within an ocean, and, like a river, it can and does carry floating objects. It has a maximum surface velocity of about . A small plane making a water landing or a boat having engine trouble can be carried away from its reported position by the current.\n\nOne of the most cited explanations in official inquiries as to the loss of any aircraft or vessel is human error. Human stubbornness may have caused businessman Harvey Conover to lose his sailing yacht, \"Revonoc\", as he sailed into the teeth of a storm south of Florida on January 1, 1958.\n\nHurricanes are powerful storms that form in tropical waters and have historically cost thousands of lives and caused billions of dollars in damage. The sinking of Francisco de Bobadilla's Spanish fleet in 1502 was the first recorded instance of a destructive hurricane. These storms have in the past caused a number of incidents related to the Triangle.\n\nA powerful downdraft of cold air was suspected to be a cause in the sinking of \"Pride of Baltimore\" on May 14, 1986. The crew of the sunken vessel noted the wind suddenly shifted and increased velocity from to . A National Hurricane Center satellite specialist, James Lushine, stated \"during very unstable weather conditions the downburst of cold air from aloft can hit the surface like a bomb, exploding outward like a giant squall line of wind and water.\" A similar event occurred to \"Concordia\" in 2010, off the coast of Brazil. Scientists are currently investigating whether \"hexagonal\" clouds may be the source of these up-to- \"air bombs\".\n\nIn August 2018, British scientists speculated that \"rogue\" waves could be the reason why so many boats have been sunk in the Bermuda Triangle.\n\nAn explanation for some of the disappearances has focused on the presence of large fields of methane hydrates (a form of natural gas) on the continental shelves. Laboratory experiments carried out in Australia have proven that bubbles can, indeed, sink a scale model ship by decreasing the density of the water; any wreckage consequently rising to the surface would be rapidly dispersed by the Gulf Stream. It has been hypothesized that periodic methane eruptions (sometimes called \"mud volcanoes\") may produce regions of frothy water that are no longer capable of providing adequate buoyancy for ships. If this were the case, such an area forming around a ship could cause it to sink very rapidly and without warning.\n\nPublications by the USGS describe large stores of undersea hydrates worldwide, including the Blake Ridge area, off the coast of the southeastern United States. However, according to the USGS, no large releases of gas hydrates are believed to have occurred in the Bermuda Triangle for the past 15,000 years.\n\n\"Ellen Austin\" supposedly came across a derelict ship, placed on board a prize crew, and attempted to sail with it to New York in 1881. According to the stories, the derelict disappeared; others elaborating further that the derelict reappeared minus the prize crew, then disappeared again with a second prize crew on board. A check from Lloyd's of London records proved the existence of \"Meta\", built in 1854, and that in 1880, \"Meta\" was renamed \"Ellen Austin\". There are no casualty listings for this vessel, or any vessel at that time, that would suggest a large number of missing men were placed on board a derelict that later disappeared.\n\nThe incident resulting in the single largest loss of life in the history of the US Navy not related to combat occurred when the collier \"Cyclops\", carrying a full load of manganese ore and with one engine out of action, went missing without a trace with a crew of 309 sometime after March 4, 1918, after departing the island of Barbados. Although there is no strong evidence for any single theory, many independent theories exist, some blaming storms, some capsizing, and some suggesting that wartime enemy activity was to blame for the loss. In addition, two of \"Cyclops\"s sister ships, and were subsequently lost in the North Atlantic during World War II. Both ships were transporting heavy loads of metallic ore similar to that which was loaded on \"Cyclops\" during her fatal voyage. In all three cases structural failure due to overloading with a much denser cargo than designed is considered the most likely cause of sinking.\n\nA five-masted schooner built in 1919, \"Carroll A. Deering\" was found hard aground and abandoned at Diamond Shoals, near Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, on January 31, 1921. Rumors and more at the time indicated \"Deering\" was a victim of piracy, possibly connected with the illegal rum-running trade during Prohibition, and possibly involving another ship, , which disappeared at roughly the same time. Just hours later, an unknown steamer sailed near the lightship along the track of \"Deering\", and ignored all signals from the lightship. It is speculated that \"Hewitt\" may have been this mystery ship, and possibly involved in \"Deering\"s crew disappearance.\n\nFlight 19 was a training flight of five TBM Avenger torpedo bombers that disappeared on December 5, 1945, while over the Atlantic. The squadron's flight plan was scheduled to take them due east from Fort Lauderdale for , north for , and then back over a final leg to complete the exercise. The flight never returned to base. The disappearance is attributed by Navy investigators to navigational error leading to the aircraft running out of fuel.\n\nOne of the search and rescue aircraft deployed to look for them, a PBM Mariner with a 13-man crew, also disappeared. A tanker off the coast of Florida reported seeing an explosion and observing a widespread oil slick when fruitlessly searching for survivors. The weather was becoming stormy by the end of the incident. According to contemporaneous sources the Mariner had a history of explosions due to vapour leaks when heavily loaded with fuel, as it might have been for a potentially long search-and-rescue operation.\n\nG-AHNP \"Star Tiger\" disappeared on January 30, 1948, on a flight from the Azores to Bermuda; G-AGRE \"Star Ariel\" disappeared on January 17, 1949, on a flight from Bermuda to Kingston, Jamaica. Both were Avro Tudor IV passenger aircraft operated by British South American Airways. Both planes were operating at the very limits of their range and the slightest error or fault in the equipment could keep them from reaching the small island.\n\nOn December 28, 1948, a Douglas DC-3 aircraft, number NC16002, disappeared while on a flight from San Juan, Puerto Rico, to Miami. No trace of the aircraft, or the 32 people on board, was ever found. A Civil Aeronautics Board investigation found there was insufficient information available on which to determine probable cause of the disappearance.\n\nA pleasure yacht was found adrift in the Atlantic south of Bermuda on September 26, 1955; it is usually stated in the stories (Berlitz, Winer) that the crew vanished while the yacht survived being at sea during three hurricanes. The 1955 Atlantic hurricane season shows Hurricane Ione passing nearby between 14 and 18 September, with Bermuda being affected by winds of almost gale force. In his second book on the Bermuda Triangle, Winer quoted from a letter he had received from Mr J.E. Challenor of Barbados:\n\nOn the morning of September 22, \"Connemara IV\" was lying to a heavy mooring in the open roadstead of Carlisle Bay. Because of the approaching hurricane, the owner strengthened the mooring ropes and put out two additional anchors. There was little else he could do, as the exposed mooring was the only available anchorage. ... In Carlisle Bay, the sea in the wake of Hurricane Janet was awe-inspiring and dangerous. The owner of \"Connemara IV\" observed that she had disappeared. An investigation revealed that she had dragged her moorings and gone to sea.\n\nOn August 28, 1963, a pair of US Air Force KC-135 Stratotanker aircraft collided and crashed into the Atlantic. The Triangle version (Winer, Berlitz, Gaddis) of this story states that while the two aircraft did collide and crash, there were two distinct crash sites, separated by over of water. However, Kusche's research showed that the unclassified version of the Air Force investigation report stated that the debris field defining the second \"crash site\" was examined by a search and rescue ship, and found to be a mass of seaweed and driftwood tangled in an old buoy.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography<br>\nThe incidents cited above, apart from the official documentation, come from the following works. Some incidents mentioned as having taken place within the Triangle are found \"only\" in these sources:\n\nFurther reading\nProQuest has newspaper source material for many incidents, archived in Portable Document Format (PDF). The newspapers include \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", and \"The Atlanta Constitution\". To access this website, registration is required, usually through a library connected to a college or university.\n\nFlight 19\n\nSS \"Cotopaxi\"\n\nUSS \"Cyclops\" (AC-4)\n\nCarroll A. Deering\n\nWreckers\n\nS.S. \"Suduffco\"\n\nStar Tiger\" and \"Star Ariel\n\nDC-3 Airliner NC16002 disappearance\n\nHarvey Conover and \"Revonoc\"\n\nKC-135 Stratotankers\n\nB-52 Bomber (\"Pogo 22\")\n\nCharter vessel \"Sno'Boy\"\n\nSS \"Marine Sulphur Queen\"\n\nSS \"Sylvia L. Ossa\"\n\nThe following websites have either online material that supports the popular version of the Bermuda Triangle, or documents published from official sources as part of hearings or inquiries, such as those conducted by the United States Navy or United States Coast Guard. Copies of some inquiries are not online and may have to be ordered; for example, the losses of Flight 19 or USS Cyclops can be ordered direct from the United States Naval Historical Center.\n\nMost of the works listed here are largely out of print. Copies may be obtained at your local library, or purchased used at bookstores, or through eBay or Amazon.com. These books are often the \"only\" source material for some of the incidents that have taken place within the Triangle.\n"}
{"id": "27043673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27043673", "title": "Blue Beach Military Cemetery at San Carlos", "text": "Blue Beach Military Cemetery at San Carlos\n\nBlue Beach Military Cemetery at San Carlos is a British war cemetery in the Falkland Islands holding the remains of 13 of the 255 British casualties killed during the Falklands War in 1982, and one other killed in early 1984. It is situated close to where 3 Commando Brigade had its initial headquarters after landing on 21 May 1982.\n\nUp until 1982 all British serviceman killed in action were buried and commemorated as close to the place of death as possible and the Commonwealth War Graves Commission managed these graves.\n\nAfter the Falklands War, one family requested the repatriation of their fallen son's body and, following this, other families requested the same; as a result, this offer was extended to all relatives. On 16 November 1982 64 of the dead (52 soldiers, 11 Royal Marines, and one laundryman from Hong Kong) were returned to Britain aboard the landing ship \"Sir Bedivere\".\n\nThe families of 15 of the dead kept with tradition and preferred their sons' remains should stay in the islands. Thirteen are buried at Port San Carlos with two more at isolated single grave sites at Goose Green and Port Howard. The fourteenth person interred at Port San Carlos is Captain John Belt of the Army Air Corps, who died in a helicopter crash in January 1984.\n\nIn 1982, at the request of the Ministry of Defence, the Commonwealth War Graves Commission undertook the design and construction of a cemetery and memorial. The plans were approved by the MOD on 12 November 1982 at a total cost of £50,000. The work was completed with the assistance of 8 Field Squadron Royal Engineers and the Brigade of Gurkhas and dedicated on 10 April 1983. The headstones are of Orton Scar limestone and the memorial panels are of light sea green slate from Cumbria.\n\nThe cemetery is surrounded by a 1 metre high wall with a small entrance open to the beach in the style of a stone sheep corral. Opposite the entrance, the wall is tapered higher with seven slate panels, six with the Regiment, Name, Rank and Service of the fallen and one with the three Forces' Emblems and the following inscription;\n\nThe site is divided into two sections each with seven graves. The section on the right is known as the Airborne Cemetery as it contains the remains of four Paratroopers including that of Lieutenant-Colonel \"H\" Jones. Alongside them are two Royal Signallers from 5th Infantry Brigade Headquarters and Sergeant Griffin from 656 Squadron Army Air Corps who were all killed in the Gazelle friendly fire incident. Directly opposite are another seven headstones laid out in the same pattern with the remains of six Royal Marines and that of Captain Belt. Nearby is the San Carlos museum, with photographs and relics from the conflict.\n\nOn 21 May 2002, the 20th anniversary of the landings, a service of remembrance was held at the cemetery. Over 300 islanders and personnel from the garrison joined the Falklands Governor, in remembering those who lost their lives in the campaign.\n\nOn 20 May 2012, a duplicate of the San Carlos Memorial was dedicated at the National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire England. The official dedication, which was attended by The Band of Her Majesty's Royal Marines also marked the 30th anniversary of the landings.\n\nSpeaking at the ceremony, the widow of Lieutenant-Colonel H Jones', Sara, described the memorial as a \"Fitting tribute to the members of the Task Force who gave their lives\".\n\nA total of 255 British servicemen and 3 female Falkland Island civilians were killed during the Falklands War.\n\n174 were buried at sea, or lost with their aircraft/ships and their remains not recovered. These are controlled sites under the Protection of Military Remains Act.\n\n\nTwo more deaths may be attributed to Operation Corporate, bringing the total to 260:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1463013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1463013", "title": "Cairo Anti-war Conference", "text": "Cairo Anti-war Conference\n\nThe Cairo Conference against U.S. hegemony and war on Iraq and in solidarity with Palestine (later: Popular Campaign for the Support of Resistance in Palestine and Iraq and Against Globalization), generally known simply as Cairo Anti-war Conference, is an anti-war and anti-neo-liberalism conference held regularly since 2002 in Cairo, Egypt. The Cairo Conference set up the International Campaign Against Aggression on Iraq which helped to coordinate the worldwide demonstrations on 15 February 2003. In 2009, the Conference was banned by the government of former Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.\n\nThe first conference was held on the 17–19 December 2002, at the Conrad Hotel on the banks of the Nile. Four hundred attended. Speakers included former United Nations (UN) humanitarian coordinator for Iraq Dr Hans von Sponeck. Former Algerian president Ahmed Ben Bella chaired the conference. One outcome of the conference was the production of the 'Cairo Declaration', which took a stance against the then-looming Iraq War; it also noted the negative effects of capitalist globalisation and U.S. hegemony on the peoples of the world (including European and American citizens). In addition, it noted that \"In the absence of democracy, and with widespread corruption and oppression constituting significant obstacles along the path of the Arab peoples' movement towards economic, social, and intellectual progress, adverse consequences are further aggravated within the framework of the existing world order of neoliberal globalisation\", while firmly rejecting the 'advance of democracy' justification for attacking Iraq.\n\nThe British Stop the War Coalition, in particular John Rees of the SWP, initiated the signing of the declaration by European leftists, including politicians Jeremy Corbyn, George Galloway and Tony Benn, Susan George (scholar/activist based in France), Bob Crow, Mick Rix (general secretary, UK train drivers' Aslef union), Julie Christie, George Monbiot, Harold Pinter, Ghayasuddin Siddiqui (Muslim Parliament), Tommy Sheridan (Scottish socialist), Dr Ghada Karmi (research fellow, Institute of Arab and Islamic Studies, University of Exeter), Tariq Ali.\n\nThe conference was followed by a 1,000-strong anti-war demonstration that was surrounded by riot police and armoured cars.\n\nThe organising committee decided to attempt solidarity actions with the US demonstrations on 18 January and to organise Egyptian demonstrations as part of 15 February global anti-war day.\n\nHeld 13 and 14 December 2003, at the Egyptian Journalists' Union headquarters. This had 800 attendees. George Galloway, Tony Benn, Salma Yaqoob, and former US attorney-general Ramsey Clark were among the international speakers. Prominent Egyptian campaigners taking part included Nasserist MP Hamdeen Sabahy, Galal Aref, head of the Egyptian Journalists' Union, and Ma'mun al-Hodeiby, leader of the outlawed Muslim Brotherhood. Egyptian novelist Sonallah Ibrahim and human rights activist Aida Seif-al-Dawla were among the conference organisers.\n\nThe presence of Muslim Brotherhood leader Ma'mun al-Hodeiby brought a large number of Islamist activists into the conference. The Muslim Brotherhood, although officially banned, is by far Egypt's largest opposition organisation. However, some delegates were critical of the Muslim Brotherhood's cooperation with the government in a series of stage-managed anti-war rallies held before the invasion of Iraq.\n\nGerman journalist Harold Schuman who attended the conference expressed frustration that most speeches did not analyse the role of Arab governments but rather took the easy way out by placing all the blame on the US. He also expressed his feelings that the conference should defend the people of Iraq but not the regime. Representatives of the Iraqi government were attending the conference, though also the Iraqi opposition had a presence in the form of Abdel-Amir Al-Rikabi who described himself as a member of \"the honest opposition\" in contrast with those who met at a US-sponsored event in London.\n\n24–27 March 2005. Political groups, independent activists, and organisations in Egypt were invited to take part in the conference and also to propose their own activities to take place at the same time as the conference.\n\nBefore the conference Yehia Fikri, who represents the Center for Socialist Studies on the organising committee, called for International delegations to come to the conference in order to protect it from state repression. He has said \"The more people who come from abroad, the more prominent personalities who sign up for the conference, the more difficult it will be for the Egyptian authorities to shut us down.\" \n\nI. Political Groups and parties\n20th of March Movement for Change, Egyptian Communist Party, Dignity Party, Muslim Brotherhood, Organization of Revolutionary Socialists, Socialist People's Party, Wasat Party.\n\nII. Unions and Syndicates\nArab Medical Union, Syndicate of Pharmacists of Egypt\n\nIII. Popular committees\nCommittee for coordination between professional syndicates, Committee of boycott in professional syndicates, Committee of boycott of Zionist Project, Coordination committee for trade union and workers liberties and rights, General Egyptian committee of boycott, Popular committee in solidarity with the Palestinian Intifada-Alexandria.\n\nIV. Research centers and civil society organizations\nA’afak Ishterakeyya Center (Center of Socialist Horizons); Egyptian Center for media, culture and development; Hisham Mubarak Law Center; Sa’ed Center; Socialist Studies Center\n\nThe fourth conference, under the rubric \"International Campaign against US and Zionist Occupation\", was held 23–26 March 2006, on a platform expressed through the slogans \"With the Resistance in Palestine and Iraq\" and \"Against Globalization, Imperialism and Zionism\".\n\nThe conference discussed means of supporting the resistance in Palestine and Iraq, challenged U.S. and Israeli plans to expand their aggression against the region to Syria and/or Iran as well as their plans to liquidate Palestinian and Lebanese resistance organisations, dealt with the issue of supporting the struggle of the peoples of the Arab world for democracy against regimes of the region who collude with aggressors, and called for expanding and developing social struggles against globalisation policies in the Arab region.\n\nThe Final Declaration of the conference addressed all of these issues. The declaration expressed support for the Hamas government of the Palestinian National Authority against the U.S., Europe and Arab regimes, and opposition to \"a peace process that has achieved nothing for the Palestinian people during the last two decades\", while rejecting both recognition of Israel and any concessions to it on \"the main national demands\".\n\nThe declaration also stated the ambition to break what it termed \"the siege\" on the resistance in Iraq, called on neighbouring countries to support \"the legitimate Iraqi resistance\", and took the position that the Iraqi resistance is \"the sole representative of the Iraqi People\". In regard to escalating American pressure on Iran and Syria, the conference agreed on an international day of solidarity with Iran and Syria on the 6th of May 2006, an ambition that was reiterated regarding Iran in a separate call for \"international coordinated action\" that was attached to the declaration.\n\nThe declaration also called for \"a new Arab movement for change\", including \"all possible forms of coordination between different democracy movements\" and the formation of support committees to protect judges, journalists, lecturers and students against repression.\n\nThe fifth Cairo Conference was held between March 29 and April 1, 2007. Its declaration is here . According to the \"Al-Ahram\", the conference was organised by Alkarama (Dignity), Al-Ishtirakyin Al-Sawryin (Socialist Revolutionary Party), Al-Ikhwan Al-Muslimin (Muslim Brotherhood) and Al-'Amal (Labour), and was held at the Egyptian Press Syndicate, with close to 600 participants and observers from around the world, including a delegation of 80 South Koreans and 20 Canadians. The Muslim Brotherhood reported there were activists present from Palestine (including Hamas members), Iraq, Lebanon, Venezuela, Turkey, Greece, Nigeria, Britain, Tunisia, Sudan, France and Iran. Speakers included Ali Fayed of Hizbullah, Sadala Mazraani of the Lebanese Communist Party, James Clark of the Canadian Peace Alliance, Feroze Mithiborwala of the Muslim Intellectual Forum of India, John Rees of the Socialist Workers Party (UK) and Rose Gentle (the mother of Gordon Gentle, a British soldier killed while serving in Iraq, and a leading figure in Military Families Against the War).\n\nThe sixth Cairo antiwar conference was held March 27–30, 2008.\n\n\"The seventh Cairo anti-war conference was cancelled after being denied access to a venue\".\n\nAlthough the Egyptian government was formally against the Iraq War, relations between it and the conference are strained by the fact that Hosni Mubarak's regime received funding from the United States and that the regime feared popular movements which may have grown to challenge its dictatorship.\n\nAmong the criticisms of the first Conference was that it was building solidarity not with ordinary Iraqis, but rather with the Iraqi government of Saddam Hussein. This perception was fueled by the reported presence of a number of Iraqi officials at the conference. According to \"Al-Ahram Weekly\", German journalist and author Harald Schuman attracted the ire of Nabil Negm, the chief political adviser to the Iraqi president, after comments he made insisting that claims that all the problems of the Arab world could be laid at the door of the US were only half-true and that the conference was not meant to \"defend the Iraqi regime and Saddam Hussein in any shape or form\". \"I am here,\" he said, \"to defend the Iraqi people.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1660830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660830", "title": "Causes of the Polish–Soviet War", "text": "Causes of the Polish–Soviet War\n\nIn the Polish–Soviet War of 1919-1921, Soviet Russia and Soviet Ukraine were in combat with the newly independent Second Polish Republic and the Ukrainian People's Republic. Both sides aimed to secure territory in the often disputed areas of today's Ukraine and parts of modern-day Belarus, in the context of the fluidity of borders in Central and Eastern Europe in the aftermath of World War I and the breakdown of the Russian and German empires. The first clashes between the two sides occurred in February 1919, but full-scale war did not break out until the following year. Especially at first, neither Soviet Russia, embroiled in the Russian Civil War, nor Poland, still in the early stages of state building, were in a position to formulate and pursue clear and consistent war aims. \nIn the winter of 1918-19 the recently established Russian Soviet Republic had already undertaken a \"Westward Offensive\", leading to the establishment of Soviet Republics in Latvia, Lithuania and Belarus. The overarching aim of Lenin and Trotsky was to spread the Bolshevik revolution into Germany and other parts of Europe, while realising their limited capacity to engage in large-scale conflict in Europe. The Soviets built up forces positioned for an attack on Poland, although officially denying that an invasion was planned.\n\nFor their part, the Poles aimed to secure their independence, contain any resurgence of the Russian or German Empires, and expand into areas to the east claimed to have Polish populations. An ambitious plan formulated by Polish head of state Józef Piłsudski aimed to create a wide \"Intermarium\" (\"Międzymorze\") federation of independent states to the west of Russia, of which Poland would be the leading member. Keeping Ukraine beyond Russian influence was essential to this plan, and Poland was already at war with Ukrainian forces over Eastern Galicia.\nAs 1919 progressed, Polish forces took the offensive and in early 1920 Poland formed an alliance with the Ukrainian People's Republic, which had lost much of its territory to the Bolsheviks. Both Polish and Soviet forces in the theatre were rapidly increased, and full-scale war began with Poland's Kiev Offensive into Soviet-controlled Ukraine.\n\nThe territory, where this conflict broke out, was a part of the medieval Kievan Rus', and after the disintegration of this united Ruthenian state (in the middle of the 12th century) belonged to the Ruthenian princedoms of Halych-Volhynia, Polotsk, Lutsk, Terebovlia, Turov-Pinsk etc. The majority of these principalities have been ruined during the Tatar–Mongol invasion in the middle of the 13th century. Some territories in the Dnieper region and Black Sea Coast for long years lost Ruthenian settled population and became the so-called \"Wild Steppe\" (i.e., territory of the Pereyaslavl). After the Tatar–Mongol invasion these territories become an object of expansion of the Polish kingdom and the Lithuanian princedom. For example, in the first half of 14th century Kiev, the Dniepr region, also the region between the rivers Pripyat and West Dvina were captured by Lithuania, and in 1352 the Halych-Volhynia princedom was divided by Poland and Lithuania. In 1569, according to the Lublin Union, the majority of the Ruthenian territories possessed by Lithuania, passed to the Polish crown. The serfdom and Catholicism extended in these territories. The local aristocracy was incorporated into the Polish aristocracy. Cultural, language and religious break between the supreme and lowest layers of a society arose.\n\nThe combination of social, language, religious and cultural oppressions had led to destructive popular uprisings of the middle of 17th century, which the Polish–Lithuanian state could not recover from. In many territories incorporated into the Russian Empire in 1772–1795 after the partitions, the domination of the Polish aristocracy was kept, in the territories incorporated into the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the domination of the Polish aristocracy has been added with active planting of German language and culture. During the First World War Austro-Hungarian authorities undertook reprisals against Russia-oriented people of the Eastern Galicia and the Polish left-nationalist movement led by Piłsudski got the support of the Central Powers for struggle against Russia. In the consequence of the revolution in Russia and the fall of Hohenzollern and Habsburg empires in the end of World War I Poland regained independence. The Polish leaders decided to retrieve as many of the territories that were parts of the Polish-Lithuanian state in 1772 as possible.\n\nIn the aftermath of World War I, the map of Central and Eastern Europe had drastically changed. The Treaty of Brest-Litovsk (March 3, 1918), by which Russia had lost to Imperial Germany all the European lands that Russia had seized in the previous two centuries, was rejected by the Bolshevik government in November 1918, following armistice, the surrender of Germany and her allies, and the end of World War I.\n\nGermany, however, had not been keen to see Russia grow strong again and—exploiting her control of those territories, had quickly granted limited independence as buffer states to Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Belarus and Ukraine. As Germany's defeat rendered her plans for the creation of those Mitteleuropa puppet states obsolete, and as Russia sank into the depths of the Russian Civil War, the newly emergent countries saw a chance for real independence and were not prepared to easily relinquish this rare gift of fate. At the same time, Russia saw these territories as rebellious Russian provinces but was unable to react swiftly, as it was weakened and in the process of transforming herself into the Soviet Union through the Russian Revolution and Russian Civil War that had begun in 1917.\n\nWith the success of the Greater Poland uprising in 1918, Poland had re-established its statehood for the first time since the 1795 partition and seen the end of a 123 years of rule by three imperial neighbors: Russia, Germany, and Austria-Hungary. The country, reborn as a Second Polish Republic, proceeded to carve out its borders from the territories of its former partitioners. The Western Powers, in delineating the new European borders after the Treaty of Versailles, had done so in a way unfavorable to Poland. Her western borders cut her off from the coal-basin and industrial regions of Silesia, leading to the Silesian Uprisings of 1919-1921. The eastern Curzon line left millions of Poles, living east of the Bug River, stranded inside Russia's borders.\nPoland was not alone in its newfound opportunities and troubles. Most if not all of the newly independent neighbours began fighting over borders: Romania fought with Hungary over Transylvania, Yugoslavia with Italy over Rijeka, Poland with Czechoslovakia over Cieszyn Silesia, with Germany over Poznań and with Ukrainians over Eastern Galicia (Galician War). Ukrainians, Belarusians, Lithuanians, Estonians and Latvians fought against themselves and against the Russians, who were just as divided.\n\nSpreading communist influences resulted in communist revolutions in Munich, Berlin, Budapest and Prešov. Winston Churchill commented: \"The war of giants has ended, the wars of the pygmies begin.\" All of those engagements – with the sole exception of the Polish-Soviet war – would be short-lived border conflicts.\n\nThe Polish–Soviet war likely happened more by accident than design, as it is unlikely that anyone in Soviet Russia or in the new Second Republic of Poland would have deliberately planned a major foreign war.\n\nPoland, its territory a major frontline of the First World War, was unstable politically; it had just won the difficult conflict with the West Ukrainian National Republic and was already engaged in new conflicts with Germany (the Silesian Uprisings) and with Czechoslovakia. Polish government was just beginning to organise and had little if any control over various border areas. Six currencies affected by various (and rising rapidly) inflation rates were in circulation. Economy was in shambles, some areas were experiencing food shortages, crime was high and a threat of an armed coup d'etat by some factions was serious.\n\nThe situation in Russia was similar. The attention of revolutionary Russia, meanwhile, was predominantly directed at thwarting counter-revolution and intervention by the western powers. Bolshevik Russia had barely survived its second winter of blockade and resulting mass starvation and was in the middle of a bloody civil war. Lenin controlled only a part of central Russia, and the Bolsheviks were surrounded by powerful enemies who needed to be defeated before any thought could be given to advance beyond the unclear Soviet borders. No matter their intent, Lenin and other communist leaders were simply incapable of moving beyond those borders. While the first clashes between Polish and Soviet forces occurred in February 1919, it would be almost a year before both sides realised that they were engaged in a full war.\n\nPolish politics was under the strong influence of the statesman Józef Piłsudski, who envisioned a Polish-led federation (the \"Federation of Międzymorze\") comprising Poland, Lithuania, Ukraine and other Central and East European countries now emerging out of the crumbling empires after the First World War. The new union would have had borders similar to those of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth in the 15th–18th centuries, and it was to be a counterweight to, and restraint upon, any imperialist intentions of Russia or Germany. To this end, Polish forces set out to secure vast territories in the east. However Piłsudski's federation plan was opposed by another influential Polish politician, Roman Dmowski, who favoured creating a larger, national Polish state.\n\nPoland had never any intention of joining the Western intervention in the Russian Civil War or conquering Russia, as it has done once in the 17th century during the Dimitriads. On the contrary, after the White Russians refused to recognise Polish independence, Polish forces acting on orders from Piłsudski delayed or stopped their offensives several times, relieving pressure from Bolshevik forces and thus substantially contributing to White Russian defeat.\n\nIn April 1920, when the Red Army's major push towards Polish hinterlands took place, the soldiers and commanders were told that defeat of Poland was not only necessary but simply sufficient for the \"oppressed masses of the proletariat\" to rise worldwide and create a \"workers' paradise.\" In the words of General Tukhachevski: \"To the West! Over the corpse of White Poland lies the road to world-wide conflagration. March on Vilno, Minsk, Warsaw!\".\n\nIn late 1919 the leader of Russia's new communist government, Vladimir Lenin, was inspired by the Red Army's civil-war victories over White Russian anti-communist forces and their western allies, and began to see the future of the revolution with greater optimism. The Bolsheviks doctrine said that historical processes would lead to proletariat victory worldwide, and that the nation states would be replaced by a worldwide communist community. War with Poland was needed if the communist revolution in Russia was to be linked with the expected revolutions in the West, such as the one in Germany. Early Bolshevik ideology made it clear that Poland, which was located in between Russia and Germany, had to become the bridge that the Red Army would have to cross to fulfill the Marxist doctrine. It was not, however, until the Soviet successes in mid-1920 that this idea became for a short time dominant in Bolshevik policies.\n\nGermany in 1918-1920 was a nation torn by social discontent and embroiled in political chaos. Since the Kaiser's abdication at the end of the First World War, it had seen a series of major internal disturbances, including government takeovers, several general strikes, some leading to communist revolutions (e.g. the Bavarian Soviet Republic), By July 1920, which is when the Soviets were on the verge of taking Warsaw, the Weimar Constitution was still brand new and the humiliating Peace of Versailles, even more so. Germany unstable government had to deal with separatist tendencies, an ongoing conflict, not far from a civil war between the Spartacist League's and Communist Party of Germany and the right-wing Freikorps, all under the watchful and humiliating eyes of the Allied powers. Red Army's remaking of the Versailles system was seen as a major force that could shake the existing system imposed by the victorious western Entente. As Lenin himself remarked, \"That was the time when everyone in Germany, including the blackest reactionaries and monarchists, declared that the Bolsheviks would be their salvation.\"\n\nIn April 1920 Lenin would complete writing \"The Infantile Disease of \"Leftism\" in Communism\", a guide to the final stages of the Revolution. He became overconfident, entertaining the thoughts of a serious war with Poland. According to him and his adherents, the Revolution in Russia was doomed unless it was to become worldwide. The debate in Russia was \"not as to whether the Polish bridge should be crossed, but how and when.\" According to Lenin's doctrine of \"revolution from outside\" Red Army's advance into Poland would be an opportunity \"to probe Europe with the bayonets of the Red Army\", the first attempt to export the Bolshevik Revolution by any means necessary. In a telegram, Lenin wrote: \"We must direct all our attention to preparing and strengthening the Western Front. A new slogan must be announced: Prepare for war against Poland.\"\n\nSee Polish-Soviet War#Notes\n"}
{"id": "11511126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11511126", "title": "Commerce Department trade mission controversy", "text": "Commerce Department trade mission controversy\n\nThe Commerce Department trade mission controversy was an American political controversy in the 1990s during the Clinton Administration. It refers to the alleged selling of seats on United States federal planes going on international trade missions, for the purpose of raising campaign contributions. No official charges were ever made in conjunction with the allegations but the Commerce Department did change its policies regarding the selection of participants for such missions so they would not be politically based.\n\nTies between the U.S. Commerce Department and the Democratic National Committee had been a subject of scrutiny ever since Ron Brown became U.S. Secretary of Commerce in 1993.\n\nThe first reports of the alleged connections between seats on trade missions and political donations came in September 1994 with reports in \"Business Week\" and the \"Wall Street Journal\". The trips in question involved CEOs of Fortune 500 and other companies and trips to China, Hong Kong, Russia, India, South Africa, and elsewhere. The campaign contributions allegedly tied to the trips ranged up to $100,000, although lesser amounts were also made reference to. Both the Clinton administration and contributors denied any quid pro quo, but unnamed figures in the Clinton and lobbying orbits said making donations, in general, helped one's prospects.\n\nLargely coincident to this, there were allegations of financial improprieties between Brown and a business partner, Nolanda Hill. These allegations got the attention of Republican House member Dan Burton by early 1995. In July 1995, an Independent Counsel, Daniel Pearson, was appointed to investigate these allegations.\n\nConservative legal group Judicial Watch filed a federal lawsuit seeking information. This happened in 1995, wherein they filed an action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia under the Freedom of Information Act seeking information from the Department of Commerce regarding the department's selection of participants for foreign trade missions. In May 1995, following a search in response to Judicial Watch's FOIA requests, the Department produced approximately 28,000 pages of nonexempt information and withheld about 1,000 documents as exempt. Disputes arose between the parties over the adequacy of Commerce's search, and Judicial Watch charged that some Department officials had destroyed or removed responsive documents.\n\nSome of the documents released under this process did show that contributors expected their donations to gain them consideration when seats were selected for Brown's flights, and a few of the documents showed the seats being rewarded accordingly. However a 1996 analysis by the nonpartisan but liberal-leaning Center for Public Integrity found that Democratic contributors only filled a third of the available trip seats, and many of those made contributions to Republicans as well.\n\nSecretary Brown died on a trade mission to Croatia, when the government plane he was on flew into a mountainside on April 3 in the 1996 Croatia USAF CT-43 crash. This led to conservative accusations that Clinton had Brown murdered; U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno and others scoffed at this conspiracy theory. Soon after, Nolanda Hill declared that she had been engaging in a long-running affair with Brown.\n\nThe trade missions controversy became more visible in 1996 as an outgrowth of the 1996 United States campaign finance controversy and investigations of Democratic fundraiser John Huang. It thusly became an issue during the United States presidential election, 1996, in which Clinton was nevertheless re-elected.\n\nIn November 1996, independent counsel Daniel Pearson reported:\n\"My office's investigation of Secretary Brown ended unfinished with his death. The unfinished state of the investigation and considerations of fairness preclude our office from drawing conclusions about the allegations regarding possible criminal conduct by the Secretary.\"\n\nResponding to the original criticism, in March 1997 new Commerce Secretary William M. Daley instituted new departmental policies intended to prevent politics from being part of the trade missions selection process. He also pledged the process would be far more transparent than in the past. Daley said the new rules were not necessarily an admission that prior practices were improper: \"This [is] about going forward, not looking back.\"\n\nIn June 1997, Nolanda Hill, the aforementioned business and personal associate of Brown, was the subject of a major profile piece in \"The New Yorker\" which detailed her colorful business past and her relationship with Brown.\nHill testified in federal court in March 1998 that Brown had told her that trade mission plane seats were sold to people willing to make campaign contributions. U.S. District Court Judge Royce Lamberth heard Hill's testimony, rejecting her argument that her testimony would adversely affect a federal indictment she was under for fraudulent business practices. Hill stated Brown was angered when White House political staff made him give seats on the trade missions for fund-raising. Hill said Brown told her the main person involved at the White House was Alexis Herman (who would later become Clinton's Labor Secretary); she further claimed that Brown had told her that an assistant to Herman, Melissa Moss, wrote the original contribution letters which had upset Brown. Hill also testified that Brown had told her President Bill Clinton and First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton supported the plan to sell seats for contributions. In one memorable turn, she said that Brown had complained \nthat \"I'm not a motherfucking tour guide for Hillary.\"\n\nGoing back to an earlier accusation by Judicial Watch, in January 1999 Judge Lambert found that a U.S. Commerce Department official appeared to have deliberately destroyed subpoenaed documents relating to the department's trade missions to China, following Brown's death.\n\nIn February 1999, in the related to Brown but unrelated to trade missions case, Nolanda Hill pleaded guilty to three counts of aiding and abetting the preparation and filing of a false income tax return.\n\nNeither of the Clintons, nor Brown, were never charged with any wrongdoing in the trade missions seats matter.\n"}
{"id": "69817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69817", "title": "Forensic engineering", "text": "Forensic engineering\n\nForensic engineering has been defined as \"\"the investigation of failures - ranging from serviceability to catastrophic - which may lead to legal activity, including both civil and criminal\".\" It therefore includes the investigation of materials, products, structures or components that fail or do not operate or function as intended, causing personal injury, damage to property or economic loss. The consequences of failure may give rise to action under either criminal or civil law including but not limited to health and safety legislation, the laws of contract and/or product liability and the laws of tort. The field also deals with retracing processes and procedures leading to accidents in operation of vehicles or machinery. Generally, the purpose of a forensic engineering investigation is to locate cause or causes of failure with a view to improve performance or life of a component, or to assist a court in determining the facts of an accident. It can also involve investigation of intellectual property claims, especially patents.\n\nAs the field of engineering has evolved over time, so has the field of forensic engineering. Early examples include investigation of bridge failures such as the Tay rail bridge disaster of 1879 and the Dee bridge disaster of 1847. Many early rail accidents prompted the invention of tensile testing of samples and fractography of failed components.\n\nVital to the field of forensic engineering is the process of investigating and collecting data related to the materials, products, structures or components that failed. This involves inspections, collecting evidence, measurements, developing models, obtaining exemplar products, and performing experiments. Often testing and measurements are conducted in an Independent testing laboratory or other reputable unbiased laboratory.\n\nFailure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) and fault tree analysis methods also examine product or process failure in a structured and systematic way, in the general context of safety engineering. However, all such techniques rely on accurate reporting of failure rates, and precise identification, of the failure modes involved.\n\nThere is some common ground between forensic science and forensic engineering, such as scene of crime and scene of accident analysis, integrity of the evidence and court appearances. Both disciplines make extensive use of optical and scanning electron microscopes, for example. They also share common use of spectroscopy (infrared, ultraviolet, and nuclear magnetic resonance) to examine critical evidence. Radiography using X-rays (such as X-ray computed tomography), or neutrons is also very useful in examining thick products for their internal defects before destructive examination is attempted. Often, however, a simple hand lens may reveal the cause of a particular problem.\n\nTrace evidence is sometimes an important factor in reconstructing the sequence of events in an accident. For example, tire burn marks on a road surface can enable vehicle speeds to be estimated, when the brakes were applied and so on. Ladder feet often leave a trace of movement of the ladder during a slipaway, and may show how the accident occurred. When a product fails for no obvious reason, SEM and Energy-dispersive X‑ray spectroscopy (EDX) performed in the microscope can reveal the presence of aggressive chemicals that have left traces on the fracture or adjacent surfaces. Thus an acetal resin water pipe joint suddenly failed and caused substantial damages to a building in which it was situated. Analysis of the joint showed traces of chlorine, indicating a stress corrosion cracking failure mode. The failed fuel pipe junction mentioned above showed traces of sulfur on the fracture surface from the sulfuric acid, which had initiated the crack.\n\nExtracting physical evidence from digital photography is a major technique used in forensic accident reconstruction. Camera matching, photogrammetry, and photo rectification techniques are used to create three-dimensional and top-down views from the two-dimensional photos typically taken at an accident scene. Overlooked or undocumented evidence for accident reconstruction can be retrieved and quantified as long as photographs of such evidence are available. By using photographs of the accident scene including the vehicle, \"lost\" evidence can be recovered and accurately determined.\n\nForensic materials engineering involves methods applied to specific materials, such as metals, glasses, ceramics, composites and polymers.\n\nThe broken fuel pipe shown at left caused a serious accident when diesel fuel poured out from a van onto the road. A following car skidded and the driver was seriously injured when she collided with an oncoming lorry. Scanning electron microscopy or SEM showed that the nylon connector had fractured by stress corrosion cracking (SCC) due to a small leak of battery acid. Nylon is susceptible to hydrolysis when in contact with sulfuric acid, and only a small leak of acid would have sufficed to start a brittle crack in the injection moulded nylon 6,6 connector by SCC. The crack took about 7 days to grow across the diameter of the tube. The fracture surface showed a mainly brittle surface with striations indicating progressive growth of the crack across the diameter of the pipe. Once the crack had penetrated the inner bore, fuel started leaking onto the road.\n\nThe nylon 6,6 had been attacked by the following reaction, which was catalyzed by the acid:\n\nDiesel fuel is especially hazardous on road surfaces because it forms a thin, oily film that cannot be easily seen by drivers. It is much like black ice in its slipperiness, so skids are common when diesel leaks occur. The insurers of the van driver admitted liability and the injured driver was compensated.\n\nMost manufacturing models will have a forensic component that monitors early failures to improve quality or efficiencies. Insurance companies use forensic engineers to prove liability or nonliability. Most engineering disasters (structural failures such as bridge and building collapses) are subject to forensic investigation by engineers experienced in forensic methods of investigation. Rail crashes, aviation accidents, and some automobile accidents are investigated by forensic engineers in particular where component failure is suspected. Furthermore, appliances, consumer products, medical devices, structures, industrial machinery, and even simple hand tools such as hammers or chisels can warrant investigations upon incidents causing injury or property damages. The failure of medical devices is often safety-critical to the user, so reporting failures and analysing them is particularly important. The environment of the body is complex, and implants must both survive this environment, and not leach potentially toxic impurities. Problems have been reported with breast implants, heart valves, and catheters, for example.\n\nFailures that occur early in the life of a new product are vital information for the manufacturer to improve the product. New product development aims to eliminate defects by testing in the factory before launch, but some may occur during its early life. Testing products to simulate their behavior in the external environment is a difficult skill, and may involve accelerated life testing for example. The worst kind of defect to occur after launch is a safety-critical defect, a defect that can endanger life or limb. Their discovery usually leads to a product recall or even complete withdrawal of the product from the market. Product defects often follow the bathtub curve, with high initial failures, a lower rate during regular life, followed by another rise due to wear-out. National standards, such as those of ASTM and the British Standards Institute, and International Standards can help the designer in increasing product integrity.\n\nThere are many examples of forensic methods used to investigate accidents and disasters, one of the earliest in the modern period being the fall of the Dee bridge at Chester, England. It was built using cast iron girders, each of which was made of three very large castings dovetailed together. Each girder was strengthened by wrought iron bars along the length. It was finished in September 1846, and opened for local traffic after approval by the first Railway Inspector, General Charles Pasley. However, on 24 May 1847, a local train to Ruabon fell through the bridge. The accident resulted in five deaths (three passengers, the train guard, and the locomotive fireman) and nine serious injuries. The bridge had been designed by Robert Stephenson, and he was accused of negligence by a local inquest.\n\nAlthough strong in compression, cast iron was known to be brittle in tension or bending. On the day of the accident, the bridge deck was covered with track ballast to prevent the oak beams supporting the track from catching fire, imposing a heavy extra load on the girders supporting the bridge and probably exacerbating the accident. Stephenson took this precaution because of a recent fire on the Great Western Railway at Uxbridge, London, where Isambard Kingdom Brunel's bridge caught fire and collapsed.\n\nOne of the first major inquiries conducted by the newly formed Railway Inspectorate was conducted by Captain Simmons of the Royal Engineers, and his report suggested that repeated flexing of the girder weakened it substantially. He examined the broken parts of the main girder, and confirmed that the girder had broken in two places, the first break occurring at the center. He tested the remaining girders by driving a locomotive across them, and found that they deflected by several inches under the moving load. He concluded that the design was flawed, and that the wrought iron trusses fixed to the girders did not reinforce the girders at all, which was a conclusion also reached by the jury at the inquest. Stephenson's design had depended on the wrought iron trusses to strengthen the final structures, but they were anchored on the cast iron girders themselves, and so deformed with any load on the bridge. Others (especially Stephenson) argued that the train had derailed and hit the girder, the impact force causing it to fracture. However, eyewitnesses maintained that the girder broke first and the fact that the locomotive remained on the track showed otherwise.\n\nProduct failures are not widely published in the academic literature or trade literature, partly because companies do not want to advertise their problems. However, it then denies others the opportunity to improve product design so as to prevent further accidents. However, a notable exception to the reluctance to publish is the journal \"Engineering Failure Analysis\", which publishes case studies of a wide range of different products, failing under different circumstances. There are also an increasing number of textbooks becoming available.\n\nAnother notable publication, dealing with failures of buildings, bridges, and other structures, is the \"Journal of Performance of Constructed Facilities\",\nwhich is published by the American Society of Civil Engineers, under the umbrella of its Technical Council on Forensic Engineering.\n\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "194266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194266", "title": "Frozen Dead Guy Days", "text": "Frozen Dead Guy Days\n\nFrozen Dead Guy Days (started 2002) is an annual celebration held in the town of Nederland, Colorado, to loosely celebrate the 1994 discovery of the cryonic state corpse of Bredo Morstoel.\n\nIn 1989, a Norwegian citizen named Trygve Bauge brought the corpse of his recently deceased grandfather, Bredo Morstøl, to the United States. The body was preserved on dry ice for the trip, and stored in liquid nitrogen at the Trans Time cryonics facility in San Leandro, California from 1990 to 1993.\n\nIn 1993, Bredo was returned to dry ice and transported to the town of Nederland, where Trygve and his mother Aud planned to create a cryonics facility of their own. When Trygve was deported from the United States for overstaying his visa, his mother, Aud, continued keeping her father's body cryogenically frozen in a shack behind her unfinished house.\n\nAud was eventually evicted from her home for living in a house with no electricity or plumbing, in violation of local ordinances. At that time, she told a local reporter about her father's body, and those of two other individuals, and the reporter went to the local city hall in order to let them know about Aud's fears that her eviction would cause her father's body to thaw out.\n\nAccording to an article in the February 7, 1995, \"Denver Post\", Aud Morstoel was found guilty by a jury of building-use and zoning violations. The Nederland town judge ordered her to remove the frozen body of her father from Nederland by March 6 or face 10 days in jail and a $600.00 fine.\n\nThe story caused a sensation. In response, the city added a broad new provision to Section 7-34 of its Municipal Code, \"Keeping of bodies\", outlawing the keeping of \"the whole or any part of the person, body or carcass of a human being or animal or other biological species which is not alive upon any property\". However, because of the publicity that had arisen, they made an exception for Bredo, a grandfather clause. Trygve secured the services of Delta Tech, a local environmental company, to keep the cryonic facility running. Bo Shaffer, CEO of Delta Tech, was known locally as \"The Iceman\" and caretaker responsible for transporting the dry ice necessary for cryopreservation to the IC Institute, something he has done since 1995. In that year, the local Tuff Shed supplier and a Denver radio station built a new shed to keep the body of Bredo in. In the fall of 2012, Jane Curtis Gazit and Mike Wooten, took over as Bredo's caretakers, but they passed caretaking duties to Brad Wickham, a resident of Nederland, who is the current caretaker.\n\nIn honor of the town's unique resident, Nederland holds an annual celebration, first started in 2002.\n\nFrozen Dead Guy Days is typically celebrated on the first full weekend of March. Coffin races, a slow-motion parade, and \"Frozen Dead Guy\" lookalike contests are held. A documentary on \"Grandpa Bredo\", called \"Grandpa's in the Tuff Shed\", is shown. A newer version of the film, \"Grandpa's Still in the Tuff Shed\", was premiered in Nederland on March 7, 2003.\n\nOther events include a tour of the Tuff Shed where Grandpa is still frozen; a \"polar plunge\" for those brave enough to go swimming in Colorado in early March (which generally requires breaking through the ice); a dance, called \"Grandpa's Blue Ball\"; pancake breakfasts; a market showcasing local artists; snowshoe races, Snowy Human Foosball, Fix-A-Frozen-Flat competitions,and snow sculpture contests. Glacier Ice Cream, headquartered in the nearby city of Boulder, makes a flavor specifically for the festival (named, appropriately enough, Frozen Dead Guy), consisting of fruit-flavored blue ice cream mixed with crushed Oreo cookies and sour gummy worms. Tours of the Tuff Shed where Grandpa is still frozen were suspended after 2005, after Grandpa's family \"became frustrated with Frozen Dead Guy Days\", but they resumed with the 2010 celebration.\n\nAlthough Trygve and Aud filed a complaint against Nederland involving money and naming rights in 2005, Frozen Dead Guy Days is still alive; the most recent celebration was held March 9–11, 2018.\n\nThere has been a growing increase in interest in the festival and more attendees arrive every year, including fan films which highlight the backstory of the festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "22627618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22627618", "title": "Great Žemaičių Kalvarija Festival", "text": "Great Žemaičių Kalvarija Festival\n\nThe Great Žemaičių Kalvarija Festival or The Great Samogitian Calvary Festival () is a Roman Catholic festival dedicated to St. Mary. The festival is held annually and takes place every July in the small town of Žemaičių Kalvarija in Samogitia, Lithuania, attracting many pilgrims and tourists.\n\nThe Samogitian Calvary Way of the Cross was created by bishop Jurgis Tiškevičius in 1637. He replicated all Stations of the Cross precisely just as they appeared in Jerusalem. In 1937 record number of 100,000 pilgrims visited The Great Žemaičių Kalvarija Festival.\n\nThere are 21 Stations of the Cross in this town. Undertaking the stations of the cross is a very important procession for every Catholic, it should be done often or at least once in their lives. The Pope is the main guardian and supporter of this festival.\n\nDuring the festival there are days dedicated to youth. Many events take place, which may serve spiritual needs of young people. There are special Masses held, dedicated to youth and children.\n\nThe festival attracts many pilgrims from Samogitia and Lithuania, many Catholic churches in Lithuania organize trips for people. Since 2004 there are more tourists and pilgrims coming from the EU States, especially from Poland, Ireland, Germany and Spain.\n\nGreat Žemaičių Kalvarija Festival being is held in the first week of July and takes place for around 2 weeks.\n\nIn 2007 it was held from 1 to 12 July.\n\nIn 2008 it was held from 2 nd to 12 July.\n\nIn 2009 Žemaičių Kalvarija Great Festival was held from 1 to 12 July.\n\n\nIn 2010 Žemaičių Kalvarija Great Festival was held from 1 to 12 July.\n\nIn 2010 Žemaičių Kalvarija Great Festival was held from 2 to 12 July. 2011 was announced a Year of God's Mercy. Between 40 and 50 thousand pilgrims participated in Žemaičių Kalvarija Great Festival in 2011. Due to many pilgrims from Latvia in 2011, the special day was dedicated for the Latvian pilgrims.\n\nIn 2012 Žemaičių Kalvarija Great Festival was held from 1 to 12 July. In 2012 was celebrated a Year of Blessed Jurgis Matulaitis.\n\n12 hours. Holy masses were broadcast live:\n\n"}
{"id": "7163776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7163776", "title": "Hanse Sail", "text": "Hanse Sail\n\nThe Hanse Sail in Rostock is the largest maritime festival in Mecklenburg (Germany) and one of the largest in Europe.\n\nAbout 250 traditional sailing ships of all types and sizes from a vast variety of countries visit the coast of the city of Rostock every year during the second weekend of August. Today, the Hanse Sail forms part of the joint \"Baltic Sail\", which takes place in several countries bordering the Baltic Sea during July and August.\n\nThe first Hanse Sail took place between 22–28 July 1991. Despite initial skepticism, the first Hanse Sail turned out to be a great success. This might have been mainly due to enthusiasm sparked by the German reunification, as the sea border was open for the first time in decades.\n\nMain attractions in past years were German Navy's training ship \"Gorch Fock\", the \"Alexander von Humboldt (ship)\" and the \"Peace\" from Jamaica.\n\nEvery Hanse Sail is usually opened by prominent personalities of the time such as Gerhard Schröder or Wolfgang Thierse. This underlines the importance of the event, also for the local tourism industry.\n\nEvery year about 1 million visitors visit the Hanse Sail. Even though it is accompanied by other cultural events, the ships remain the center of the festival. Besides watching ships, it is also possible to sail on them or enter them while they are anchored.\n\nMany cruise ships head for the cruise port at Warnemünde during this time, because the shipping companies think that staying in Rostock during the Hanse Sail is a special highlight for their guests.\n\nThere are also sea planes and a helicopter parallel to the festival. They offer the opportunity to fly with them for about 20 minutes.\n\nOn the Saturday of the event there are fireworks in Warnemünde and the city harbour.\n\nThe 2015 Hanse Sail featured steam ships also, and the event occurred in August 2015. This was the 25th Hanse Sail since the start. (\"Hanse Sail Rostock 2015\") It was predicted something like 250 sailing ships would attend Hanse Sail in 2015.\n\n\nPublic transport is significantly increased during the event. Every 7.5 minutes, the S-Bahn plies between Rostock Hauptbahnhof (main station) and Warnemünde with up to five bilevel cars. Also many chartered trains come to Rostock, some even steam powered, and Deutsche Bahn operates extra trains.\n\nThe tram and bus services in Rostock operate a special timetable and on some nights go 24 hours non stop. Due to limited parking lot capacity, a shuttle service with buses is offered to bring people to Warnemünde.\n\nSponsors have included \"Hanseatische Brauerei Rostock\" (German brewery), \"Ostdeutscher Sparkassenverbund\", and \"OstseeSparkasse Rostock\". Further sources of revenue are letting of boat parking spaces and trading places on markets as well as commercial advertising.\n\nThe City of Rostock supports the Hanse Sail financially, because the city largely profits from the event. During the sail, most hotels are usually fully booked and visitors spend money in the town, in pubs and shops. Last, but not least, the sail is good promotion for Rostock and a good percentage of Hanse Sail visitors usually return for a holiday.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27600510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27600510", "title": "International Image Festival", "text": "International Image Festival\n\nThe International Image Festival is a space for meeting and discussion on topics related to visual design, electronic arts, digital audiovisual creation, digital sound, and electro-acoustic, and in general, new relationships between art, design, and science and technology. Proposing an open forum for discussion in areas of digital creation, integrating art, science and technology through different activities and projects, such as: art and science conferences, seminars and workshops, calls for national and international events including new music concerts, analysis sessions, exhibitions, publications and webcast initiatives.\n\nThe 9th edition took place from 13–17 April 2010, in Manizales, Colombia.\n\nThe International Image Festival is organized in various sections:\n\n\n\n\n\nIndian Trip is an interactive installation that allows users to explore different parts of India, through sounds, images and video.\n\nThis interactive installation was presented at the Ninth international festival image.\n\nHAL 9000 An interactive installation in which four different atmospheres are created by certain images and sounds that inhabit it. This proposal works with a technology called Augmented Reality which is a representation model for the handling, integration and interaction of images, which merges the everyday reality with virtual reality. By allowing interaction markers and total control of the projections and sounds by those who are there.\n\nThis interactive installation was presented at the Seventh international festival image.\n\nContemporary experiences of Latin American and global audiovisual creation. Videos, interactive web formats, non-linear narratives and documentaries open are some of the expressions that will introduce this area open to contemporary audiovisual.\n\nIs a space for the expression of contemporary practices in electronic media creation, also reflects on the role of digital visual creations in the information society and aims, not only as a space for critical analysis, but also as the place of exchange of experiences in different languages around the narrative and the creative processes generated in the new media.\n\nCall all the creators who wish, without limitation of quantity to contribute with sounds that take into consideration one way or another transport ideas of information and knowledge and dialogue in constant construction.\n\nIs a space for the expression of contemporary practices in electronic media creation, also reflects on the role of digital visual creations in the information society and aims, not only as a space for critical analysis, but also as the place of exchange of experiences in different languages around the narrative and the creative processes generated in the new media.\n\nInstitutions and organizations such as UNESCO and the Ministry of Culture of Colombia have promoted and supported some calls for participation in the Monographic show of Media Art.\n\nIs a space where teachers, students, professionals and researchers in history, theory and criticism in fields of design and creation, can participate by sharing paper and research works.\n\nThis Festival has been held since 1997, conducted by the Department of Visual Design at the University of Caldas in Manizales, Colombia.\n\n"}
{"id": "51334500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51334500", "title": "Ixi lang", "text": "Ixi lang\n\nIxi lang is a programming language for live coding musical expression. It is taught at diverse levels of musical education and used in Algorave performances. Like many other live coding languages, such TidalCycles, ixi lang is a domain-specific language that embraces simplicity and constraints in design.\n\nIn 2015, ixi lang was presented at the Loop summit, organised by the music software manifacturer Ableton, where it gained critical acclaim as an alternative way of making music in the studio as well as in live performance. Mark Smith, of techno-duo Garland writes about the language: \"By entering the name of a sound, drawing your own bars and typing notes with numbers, you can make simple beats and melodies almost immediately. If you memorise a few different command lines a broad range of modulations and structural changes becomes possible. Whatever simple information you entered beforehand becomes hugely pliable – and you can do all this to your own uploaded bank of samples. Given that just about anyone can get up and running with a few minutes, those who are willing to put their time into live coding software like ixi lang can reach highly intuitive and fluid levels of improvised composition\".\n\nIxi lang is used internationally, for example by members of the Quase-Linema Lab collective in Brazil, Belisha Beacon, Section 9 and Deerful in the UK, or by the Paris-based Sougata Bhattacharya. Ixi Lang is referenced in various live coding literature and has influenced other live coding systems such as Gibber, EarSketch, WulfCode and Sonic Pi.\n"}
{"id": "7924907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7924907", "title": "List of LGBT events", "text": "List of LGBT events\n\nThe following is a calendar of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) events. This mainly comprises pride parades but also includes other kinds of events such as and . They range in size from the world's largest pride parade in São Paulo with 3.5 million participants to the world's smallest pride parade with 100 participants in the city of Sligo, Ireland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16649921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16649921", "title": "List of missing ships", "text": "List of missing ships\n\nThis is a list of missing ships and wrecks. If it is known that the ship in question sank, then its wreck has not yet been located.\n\nShips are usually declared lost and assumed wrecked after a period of disappearance. The disappearance of a ship usually implies all hands lost. Without witnesses or survivors, the mystery surrounding the fate of missing ships has inspired many items of nautical lores and the creation of paranormal zones such as the Bermuda Triangle. In many cases a probable cause has been deduced, such as a known storm or warfare, but it could not be confirmed without witnesses or sufficient documentation.\n\nMany disappearances occurred before wireless telegraphy became available in navigation applications in the late 1890s, which would have allowed crew to send a distress call. Sudden disasters such as military strike, collision, rogue wave, or piracy could also prevent a crew from sending a distress call and reporting a location.\n\nAmong the many missing ships on the list are submarines, which have limited communication, and provide the crew almost no chance of survival if struck by disaster under water.\n\nThe advancement of radar technology by the end of World War II and today's Global Positioning System make it more likely that a distressed vessel will be located.\n\nMost vessels currently listed as missing disappeared over a vast search area and/or deep water and there is little commercial interest in searching for the vessels and salvaging the contents. Often the search and recovery costs are prohibitive even with today's sonar and wrecking technologies and could not be compensated by salvaged valuables, even if there were any on board. The search for these types of missing vessels is usually motivated by historical, legal or actuarial interests requiring the aid of government funding such as in the 2008 discovery of HMAS \"Sydney\" and \"Kormoran\".\n\nThe list is organised by the marine region in which the disappearance or sinking occurred, or the closest country to the area. The year of the disappearance, last known location, and possible location of the wreck are included.\n\nThe following lists contain entries that could not be referenced to an area close to any one particular country or an area definitely in international waters.\n\n"}
{"id": "1629191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1629191", "title": "Lists of protests against the Vietnam War", "text": "Lists of protests against the Vietnam War\n\nProtests against the Vietnam War took place in the 1960s and 1970s. The protests were part of a movement in opposition to the Vietnam War and took place mainly in the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are many pro- and anti-war slogans and chants. Those who used the anti-war slogans were commonly called \"doves\"; those who supported the war were known as \"hawks\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "212195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=212195", "title": "Meetup", "text": "Meetup\n\nMeetup is a service used to organize online groups that host in-person events for people with similar interests. Meetup was founded in 2002 by CEO Scott Heiferman and four co-founders. It was popularized by Howard Dean’s 2004 political campaign. The company was acquired by WeWork in 2017 and remains headquartered in New York City. \n\nMeetup was founded in June 2002 by Scott Heiferman and five co-founders. The idea for Meetup came from Heiferman meeting his neighbors in New York City for the first time after the September 11 attacks on the Twin Towers. Heiferman was also influenced by the book Bowling Alone, which is about the deterioration of community in American culture. Some initial funding for the venture was raised from friends and family, which was followed by a funding round with angel investors.\n\nThe early version of Meetup generated revenues by charging a fee to venues in exchange for bringing Meetup users to their business. Once enough users added themselves to a group, Meetup would send the group members an email, asking them to vote on one of three sponsoring venues for the group to meet at. Within a few months of Meetup launching, 56,000 users had joined the site.\n\nMeetup was originally intended to focus on hobbies and interests, but it was popularized by Presidential hopeful Howard Dean. Meetup developed paid services to help Dean campaign to Meetup users. Dean also publicized Meetup groups of supporters in his speeches and on his website. At the peak of Dean's campaign, 143,000 users had joined Meetup groups for Dean supporters. Afterwards, Meetup became a routine part of internet campaigning for American politicians. \n\nMeetup started charging a fee to group organizers in early 2005. Initially, changes to the website had to be approved by two committees. In 2009, Meetup started running hackathons, where employees came up with new features that would be implemented if their coworkers supported it. The website was redesigned in 2013. Meetup had 8 million users in 2010, and 25.5 million users by 2013.\n\nIn 2013, Meetup acquired a struggling email collaboration company called Dispatch. In 2014, a hacker shut down Meetup with a DDoS attack the hacker claimed was funded by a competitor. In 2017, Meetup created 1,000 #resist Meetup groups in response to the Trump travel ban. This caused some Trump supporters to leave the site or call for a boycott. Meetup also partnered with a labor group to organize anti-trump protests.\n\nMeetup was acquired by WeWork in late 2017. WeWork spaces are predominantly used during work hours, while Meetup events take place mostly on evenings and weekends. Some former employees said there was a 10% layoff after the acquisition.\n\nIn 2018, Scott Heiferman stepped down as CEO and former Investopedia CEO David Siegel took his place. Heiferman became Chairman of the company.\n\nMeetup is an online service used to create groups that host local in-person events. As of 2017, there are about 35 million Meetup users. Each user can be a member of multiple groups or RSVP for any number of events. Users are usually using the website to find friends, share a hobby, or for professional networking. Meetup users do not have \"followers\" or other direct connections with each other like on other social media sites.\n\nMeetup users self-organize into groups. As of 2017, there are about 225,000 Meetup groups in 180 countries. Each group has a different topic, size, and rules. Groups are associated with one of 30+ categories and any number of more than 18,000 tags that identify the group's theme. The most popular categories are \"adventure and outdoor activities, career and business, and parents and family.\" Most events are on a structured schedule each week or month at a local venue, typically on evenings or weekends.\n\nMeetup groups are run by approximately 140,000 organizers. Any Meetup user can be an organizer. Organizers set up groups, organize events, and develop event content. They also pay a fee to run the group, under the expectation of sharing the cost with members that attend events. Meetup has policies against organizing meetups around a commercial interest, hate speech, or groups that do not meet in-person. About 28% of organizers have sponsors that provide venues, drinks, and event content.\n\n"}
{"id": "14056148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14056148", "title": "Military psychiatry", "text": "Military psychiatry\n\nMilitary psychiatry covers special aspects of psychiatry and mental disorders within the military context. The aim of military psychiatry is to keep as many serving personnel as possible fit for duty and to treat those disabled by psychiatric conditions. Military psychiatry encompasses counseling individuals and families on a variety of life issues, often from the standpoint of \"life strategy counseling\", as well as counseling for mental health issues, substance abuse prevention and substance abuse treatment; and where called for, medical treatment for biologically based mental illness, among other elements.\n\nA military psychiatrist is a psychiatrist—whether uniformed officer or civilian consultant—specializing in the treatment of military personnel and military family members suffering from mental disorders that occur within the statistical norm for any population, as well as those disorders consequent to warfare and also stresses associated with military life.\n\nTRICARE is a health program offered to uniformed service members, national guard or reserve members, survivors, former spouses, Medal of Honor recipients, and their families through the United States Department of Defense Military Health System. Upon enrollment, active duty members and their families gain access to emergency and non-emergency mental health care. In the case of a mental health emergency, members are advised to go to the nearest hospital emergency department. There is no requirement for prior authorization. Admissions must be reported to your regional contractor within 24 hours or the next business day. For non-emergency situations, active duty members must receive a referral and prior authorization for all mental health care.\n\nThe United States Department of Veteran Affairs offers mental health care to veterans through enrollment in VA health care. Benefits include emergency and non-emergency care. Emergency mental health care is available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, through VA medical centers and the Veterans Crisis Line. Non-emergency mental health care services provided include inpatient and outpatient care, rehabilitation treatment and residential (live-in) programs, and supported work settings. Conditions treated by the VA: \n\nPsychiatric disorders have been related to the greatest number of casualties and discharges in several wars. Such conditions typically have somatic manifestations. On-site, emergency psychiatric treatment reduces the prevalence of psychiatric morbidity within the military context.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28067283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28067283", "title": "Modem tax", "text": "Modem tax\n\nThe modem tax is a hoax dating back to the days of bulletin board systems stating the Federal Communication Commission or the United States Congress intends to impose a tax on modem use. The FCC has described it as an urban myth.\n"}
{"id": "6566528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6566528", "title": "Monopolization", "text": "Monopolization\n\nIn US antitrust law, monopolization is an illegal and the main categories of prohibited behavior include exclusive dealing, price discrimination, refusing to supply an essential facility, product tying and predatory pricing. Monopolization is an offense under Section 2 of the American Sherman Antitrust Act 1890. It has a specific legal meaning, which is parallel to the \"abuse\" of a dominant position in EU competition law, under TFEU article 102. The Sherman Act 1890 §2 states that any person \"who shall monopolize . . . any part of the trade or commerce among the several states, or with foreign nations shall be deemed guilty of a felony.\" Section 2 also forbids \"attempts to monopolize\" and \"conspiracies to monopolize\". Generally this means that corporations may not act in ways that have been identified as contrary to precedent cases.\n\nUnder long-established precedent, the offense of monopolization under Section 2 has two elements. First, that the defendant possesses monopoly power in a properly-defined market and second that the defendant obtained or maintained that power through conduct deemed unlawfully exclusionary. The mere fact that conduct disadvantages rivals does not, without more, constitute the sort of exclusionary conduct that satisfies this second element. Instead, such conduct must exclude rivals on some basis other than efficiency.\n\nFor several decades courts drew the line between efficient and inefficient exclusion by asking whether the conduct under scrutiny was \"competition on the merits\". Courts equated such competition on the merits with unilateral conduct such as product improvement, the realization of economies of scale, innovation, and the like. Such conduct was lawful per se, since it constituted the normal operation of economic forces that a free economy should encourage. At the same time, courts condemned as \"unlawful exclusion\" tying contracts, exclusive dealing, and other agreements that disadvantaged rivals. This distinction reflected the economic theory of the time, which saw no beneficial purposes for what Professor Oliver Williamson has called non-standard contracts.\n\nMore recently, courts have retained the safe harbor for \"competition on the merits\". Moreover, the Supreme Court has clarified the standards governing claims of predatory pricing. At the same time, they have relaxed the standards governing other conduct by monopolists. For instance, non-standard contracts that exclude rivals are now lawful if supported by a \"valid business reason\", unless the plaintiff can establish that the defendant could achieve the same benefits by means of a less restrictive alternative.\n\n"}
{"id": "862321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=862321", "title": "Māori Language Week", "text": "Māori Language Week\n\nMāori Language Week () is a government-sponsored initiative intended to encourage New Zealanders to promote the use of the Māori language, which, along with English and New Zealand Sign Language, is an official language of the country. Māori Language Week is part of a broader revival of the Māori language.\n\nIt has been celebrated since 1975 and is currently spearheaded by Te Puni Kōkiri (the Ministry of Māori Development) and the Māori Language Commission, with many organizations including schools, libraries, and government departments participating.\n\nOn August 2, 2015, to celebrate Māori Language Week, the Black Caps (the New Zealand national cricket team) played under the name of Aotearoa for their first match against Zimbabwe.\n\n"}
{"id": "4868183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4868183", "title": "Niadh Nask", "text": "Niadh Nask\n\nThe Niadh Nask was a self-styled nobiliary association devised by the self-styled MacCarthy Mór, Terence Francis MacCarthy. It was alleged to be a nobiliary fraternity which developed from the old warrior-guard of the Kings of Munster. In reality there is no evidence of the existence of an organized body of that name before ca. 1990. The group dissolved when it was proven that its Grand Master claimed a false pedigree. He resigned in 1999. It was also determined at this time that the association had no historical precedent.\n\nIn 2007, a site was set up by an unknown McCarthy to re-commission the Niadh Nask as a Chivalric order but failed. The site - www.niadhnask.weebly.com - has been shut down. However, the order has recently been reformed under the basis of a non-profit organization designed to promote Gaelic culture.\n\nThe Nia Naisc was a Scottish re-creation of the fake Irish order created by MacCarthy in the 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30865763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30865763", "title": "OM Festival", "text": "OM Festival\n\nThe OM Festival was a community-based summer solstice festival that ran annually in southern Ontario from 1998 to 2004. The festival, organized by Sumkidz (now Suma), primarily featured electronic music as well as dance, workshops, art, and other forms of acoustic music. It encouraged its attendees to participate by volunteering and promoted free expression and a no-spectator, leave-no-trace philosophy. At its peak, Om drew in just over 3000 participants from all over the world.\n\nThe event had multiple stages, a free community kitchen which produced thousands of meals throughout the weekend, a healing area, and an educational hub where people shared ideas and offered hundreds of workshops on everything from knitting to independent media.\n\nThe annual gathering attracted people who enjoyed electronic music, considered themselves knowledge-seekers, environmentalists, spiritual travelers and other individuals who sought the enlightenment of the human spirit. The festival also supported many musicians (primarily electronic) and artists from across Canada and internationally as well as a wide range of collectives, offering them the opportunity and funds to produce and showcase their own work and skills to a large and diverse audience.\n\nIdeals espoused by the core group of festival organizers and participants were togetherness, freedom, volunteering and spiritual tolerance and exploration.\n\nFormer festival attendees and Message Board members sometimes called themselves Omies.\n\nThe final Om Festival occurred in 2004. It ended as a result of many factors. Provincial politics and false media surrounding the booming electronic music scene at the time made it increasingly difficult to produce outdoor gatherings of that magnitude. An unsustainable, volunteer-based organizational structure that required many coordinators to work, unpaid, on a nearly full-time basis for months at a time was another significant factor.\nThe Festival was organized and maintained by Sumkidz (now known as \"Suma\"), a collective of artists and activists living in and around Toronto, Ontario.\n\nThe organizers of the festival, aside from volunteering themselves, relied on hundreds of additional volunteers to make everything happen. Volunteers would attend meetings in Toronto several weeks prior to the festivities, and roles would be assigned, thus cultivating deeper and more meaningful relationships and community connections.\n\nVolunteers chose to work in the Kind Kitchen, on foot patrol (security and first aid), in the child care areas, on cleanup, or in several other positions. Those who gave their time and effort to sustain the festival received a reduced ticket price, although they did not pay for their T-shirt identifying them as OM crew.\n\nAfter the final Om Festival in 2004, several members of Sumkidz, along with many individuals from the larger Om Community, formed the OM Reunion Project (ORP) and began to organize a more intimate and less structured summer solstice gathering. The first such gathering was held in 2005 (called \"Re:union\"), followed by \"In:tent\" in 2006, \"Re:treat\" in 2007, \"In:sight\" in 2008, \"Re:Leaf\" in 2009, \"In:fuse\" in 2010, and \"Re:Generate\" in 2011 and, as of 2013, is simply called \"Solstice\". The festival runs for one week, Monday through Monday, on the week which includes the summer solstice. The Om Reunion Project is an intentional community event and goes beyond a \"party\". All participants must register for the gathering in advance and are responsible for making the gathering happen. Every attendee is required to volunteer, and everyone is encouraged to share their skills, whether it be music, dance, art, food, education or anything else. While, on many levels, ORP has created a differently focused community, it has also pushed away former Om attendees and participants that do not place the same importance on these grass-roots values. Regardless, ORP has encouraged new participants and community willing to pour their creative and intentional energies into the new gathering. ORP continues to grow and evolve each summer solstice in the spirit of the former Om Festival and provides an inspiring and educational retreat for many 'Omies' old and new.\nInformation about this year's festival is available at www.omreunionproject.org\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30531598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30531598", "title": "Persecution of Croats in Serbia during Yugoslav Wars", "text": "Persecution of Croats in Serbia during Yugoslav Wars\n\nFollowing the beginning of the Yugoslav wars, especially the War in Croatia in 1991, members of Serbian Radical Party and Serbian Chetnik Movement have been accused to have conducted a campaign of intimidation and persecution of Croats of Serbia in Vojvodina, Serbia, through hate speech and threats by various parties, including by the ICTY and United Nations Commission on Human Rights. These acts forced a part of the local Croat population to leave the area in 1992. Most of them were resettled in Croatia. The affected locations included Hrtkovci, Nikinci, Novi Slankamen, Ruma, Šid, and other places bordering Croatia. According to some estimates, around 10,000 Croats left Vojvodina in 1992.\n\nVojvodina is a province of Serbia. According to the 1991 census, its population was 2,012,517. Serbs comprised 57.2%, Hungarians 16.9% of its population, or 1,151,353 and 430,946 members, respectively. Croats numbered 74,226 members or 3.7% of Vojvodina's population (down from 109,203 from the 1981 census).\n\nIn 1991, Hrtkovci was an ethnically mixed village with Croatian plurality (40.24%), located roughly 40 miles west of Belgrade. Vojislav Šešelj, the leader of the Serbian Radical Party, made numerous public threats to Croats in May 1992. Radicals replaced all Latin signs with Cyrillic ones and even renamed Hrtkovci to \"Srbislavci\" - 'place of Serbs' - though only for a short amount of time. Šešelj personally visited Hrtkovci on 6 May 1992 and gave a hate speech by publicly reading out a list of 17 Croat \"traitors\" who must leave the village. Incoming Serb refugees labeled Croats as \"fascists\".\n\nFollowing the threats, one part of local Croats rushed to Croatia to see the houses which were offered to them in the planned population transfer. One Croat was even murdered by the radicals. Šešelj's party even crafted a slogan for their campaign: \"All Croats out of Hrtkovci\". In 1991, Hrtkovci had 2,684 residents, including 1,080 Croats (40.2%), 555 Serbs and Montenegrins (20.7%), 515 Hungarians (19.2%), and 445 Yugoslavs (16.6%). By the end of 1992, 75% of its residents were Serbs.\n\nThe number of Croats who left from the village of Hrtkovci was 722. Their empty homes were settled by Serb refugees from Croatia and Bosnia. Likewise, some Serbs tried to protect their Croatian neighbors. After the events, Yugoslav authorities arrested five radicals who were responsible for harassment of Croats. \n\nIn its 1993 report, published during its 49th session, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights wrote that Hungarians and Croats in Vojvodina were subjected to \"verbal and physical threats and other acts of intimidation, including setting houses on fire and destroying cultural and religious monuments\", and thus left their homes in large numbers after Vojvodina lost its autonomy. Another reson for their departure was that many were refusing to be drafted in the Yugoslav army, fearing they might be sent to the battle front. Besides Hrtkovci, the report documented an exodus of Croats from Kukujevci and Novi Slankamen, as a result of threats and the bombing of their houses. The villages of Beška and Golubinci were said to have lost their entire respective Croat population. Other means of intimidation included threatening telephone calls and letters. The report alleged that \"the police have acquiesced in some of the incidents which have been attributed\nto individuals.\" On 23 February 1993, the Commission adopted a resolution expressing its \"grave concern\" at the \"violations of human rights occurring in Sandžak and Vojvodina, particularly acts of physical harassment, abductions, the burning of homes, warrantless searches, confiscation of property and other practices intended to change the ethnic structure in favour of the Serbian population.\"\n\nOn 29 August 1992, the BBC reported bombings of Croatian homes in the village of Nikinci. In Golubinci, twenty cases were recorded where bombs were planted inside Croat houses. A 28-year old Croat woman was killed in her home on 7 February 1994.\n\nAccording to different sources, between 10,000 and 25,000 Croats left Vojvodina in the 1990s. Another 6,000 left Kosovo and 5,000 Serbia Proper, including Belgrade.\n\nIn 2003, Vojislav Šešelj was indicted by the U.N. established International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY). On 11 April 2018, the Appeals Chamber sentenced him to 10 years in prison under Counts 1, 10, and 11 of the indictment for instigating deportation, persecution (forcible displacement), and other inhumane acts (forcible transfer) as crimes against humanity due to his speech in Hrtkovci on 6 May 1992, in which he called for the expulsion of Croats from Vojvodina. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23041975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23041975", "title": "Phenoxypropazine", "text": "Phenoxypropazine\n\nPhenoxypropazine (trade name Drazine) is an irreversible and non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) of the hydrazine family. It was introduced as an antidepressant in 1961, but was subsequently withdrawn in 1966 due to hepatotoxicity concerns.\n\n"}
{"id": "19691490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19691490", "title": "Reserve Primary Fund", "text": "Reserve Primary Fund\n\nThe Reserve Primary Fund was a large money market mutual fund.\n\nOn September 16, 2008, during the Global financial crisis of September–October, 2008, it lowered its share price below $1 (\"breaking the buck\") because of exposure to Lehman Brothers debt securities. This resulted in demands from investors to return their funds as the financial crisis mounted. Normally, the net asset value of money market funds is kept at $1. \n\nReserve Management had multiple other funds frozen because of this failure. It has liquidated a few funds, and post periodic updates about plans to liquidate other funds on its website.\n\nAs of October 27, 2009, more than $3.5 billion sat in the Primary fund, most in a special reserve held aside to be used for costs and expenses, including legal fees.\nIn November 2009, a U.S. district judge ordered the fund to make pro-rata distribution of almost all remaining assets to shareholders. As of December 2014, the fund had paid out 99.1 cents per share.\n\n"}
{"id": "49715959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49715959", "title": "Six Days of Rio de Janeiro", "text": "Six Days of Rio de Janeiro\n\nThe Six Days of Rio de Janeiro was a former six-day cycling event, held in Rio de Janeiro. The event was only held once, in August 1956, won by Italian-Argentine team Severino Rigoni and Bruno Sivilotti.\n"}
{"id": "27344431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27344431", "title": "Spindles Farm", "text": "Spindles Farm\n\nSpindles Farm was a farm in Hyde Heath, near Amersham, Buckinghamshire, England, run by horse dealer James Gray (also known as Jamie Gray). It was the location of a significant animal cruelty case in 2008 where dozens of horses were neglected, some being left to starve to death. The incident was described as \"the worst case ever experienced by the RSPCA\" by the judge at the resulting court trial.\n\nInspectors from the RSPCA visited the farm on Friday 4 January 2008 to discover more than 125 horses, ponies and donkeys in a state of neglect at the farm, with a further 32 dead equines also found amongst those horses still alive.\n\nA large scale rescue operation was mounted by the RSPCA along with World Horse Welfare and Redwings Horse Sanctuary and took eight days to complete, due to the number of horses involved and their condition.\nOn 12 and 13 January 2008, \n115 equines were removed from the property, with others having to be put down on site. \n\nFor two days on 12 & 13 January 2008, a nine-year-old girl called Katy Roberts who has hemiplegia held a silent protest outside the gates of Spindles Farm in protest at the cruelty that had, at that time, been alleged to have taken place there, and later protested outside the hearing at Aylesbury Magistrates court and set up a website detailing events. \n\nIn June 2009, the owner of the farm, horse trader James John Gray (Jamie Gray) was sentenced to six months imprisonment, fined £400,000 and banned from keeping horses for life, the maximum penalty available to the court for the nine cases of causing unnecessary suffering to animals and two charges of failing to protect animals from pain, injury, suffering and disease.\n\nJames Gray's son, James Junior, was also convicted on identical charges to his father, although with a sentence of an 18-month supervision order and a ten-year ban on keeping horses. His wife, Julie, and 2 young daughters Jodie and Cordelia were also found guilty of two counts of failing to protect the animals, all being sentenced to 10-year bans on keeping horses and community service.\n\nThe family appealed against their sentences in May 2010, but James Gray, his wife and daughters all had their convictions upheld. James Junior was acquitted of two offences, but was found guilty of all the remaining offences.\n\nJames Gray absconded court while awaiting sentencing on 12 May 2010 and went on the run, with a warrant issued for his arrest. He was arrested 2 weeks later on 26 May, during a random spot check by police between junctions 4a and 5 on the M5 near Bromsgrove, Worcestershire.\n\n"}
{"id": "50379587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50379587", "title": "Tak Bat Devo", "text": "Tak Bat Devo\n\nTak Bat Devo () is a Buddhist festival that is celebrated annually in Central Thailand a day after Wan Ok Phansa, the 1st day of the 11th waning moon.This is the celebration in order of Lord Buddha’s return to Earth after delivering a semon to his dead mother in heaven.\n\n\"Tak Bat\" () means \"to present food to a monk or Buddhist priest\". \"Devo\" () is derived from the word \"Theworona\" () which is \"The Buddhas descent from the celestial world\".\n\nIn the seventh year after Lord Buddha’s intuition, he decided to give a semon to his dead mother, Sirimahamaya, in Dusit heaven, so he stayed in the heaven for three months from Khao Phansa day to Ok Phansa day. On Ok Phansa day, the 15th day of the 11th waxing moon, Lord Buddha had come back to Earth and made the miracle that all realms (heaven, human, and hell) can see each other while he was going down. The next morning, most citizens made a big \"Tak Bat\" event as they had not seen Lord Buddha for almost three months. That event was originally called \"Tak Bat Theworohana\", but as the time passed, it had derived to only \"Tak Bat Thewo\". To memorize that event, people made it a festival till now.\n\n Theworohana means coming down from the heaven of Lord Buddha. It is the part of Buddha’s life. The legend said that, when he come back, Indra had made three ladders for him (gold, silver, and crystal). Their heads were put on the top of a mountain and their bases were at the door of Sanggas Nakorn city. When Lord Buddha come down, he used the crystal ladder while the angels used gold ladder and the archangels used silver ladder. That is called Theworohana.\n\n Tak Bat Thewo is the special day that they will install the statue of Buddha on a small moving boat and with a monk's alms bowl in the front. There will be some person pulling it slowly while the monks walk in line in the back and the buddish sit on the side and throw the rice balls into that bowl, which is at the front of the statue. Some people will take some semon in the temple too.\n\n In Thailand there are countries which do Tak Bat Thewo festival, such as:\n1.In Uthai Thani at Wat Sangkat Rattanakhiri, there are about 500 monks walking 449 steps of the staircase down from Sakaekrang hill to receive alms from locals and tourists.\n2.In Chon Buri, monks walk in a long line around the Muang district to join Tak Bat Thewo festival.\n3.In Buri Ram, about two thousand people joined in merit-making ritual with 199 monks in this festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "48216615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48216615", "title": "Teatro Carcano", "text": "Teatro Carcano\n\nThe Teatro Carcano is a theatre in Milan, Italy located at 63 Corso di Porta Romana. Although now exclusively devoted to plays and dance, it served as an opera house for much of the 19th century and saw the premieres of several important operas. Completed in 1803, the theatre was commissioned by the Milanese aristocrat and theatre-lover Giuseppe Carcano and originally designed by Luigi Canonica. Over the succeeding two centuries it has undergone several restructurings and renovations and for time in the mid-20th century functioned as a cinema.\n\nThe Teatro Carcano was commissioned by the Milanese aristocrat and theatre-lover Giuseppe Carcano who entrusted the project to the young architect Luigi Canonica. Planning began in 1801 and construction began the following year. On 3 September 1803 the theatre was inaugurated with the world premieres of two works by the composer Vincenzo Federici—the opera \"Zaira\" with a libretto by Mattia Butturini and the ballet \"Alfredo il Grande\" with choreography by Paolo Franchi.\n\nThe Carcano was built on the site of the former convent of San Lazzaro in the Porta Romana district of Milan. It was modelled on the two most important public theatres in the city, La Scala (built in 1778) and the Teatro alla Cannobiana (built in 1779). Like those theatres it was designed in the neo-classical style with a horseshoe-shaped auditorium and four tiers of boxes. In total, it could accommodate 1500 spectators. The interior was lavishly decorated in stucco and gold leaf with frescoes and a large ceiling medallion over the auditorium. Contemporary descriptions of the opening performances praised not only the decor but also the extensive illumination provided for the stage. The theatre had its own restaurant and pâtisserie, and in 1806 a gambling casino was added.\n\nThe theatre was modernized and partially restructured in 1872 by the Milanese architect Achille Sfondrini. Opera and classical music concerts continued to be performed throughout the 19th century, although the premieres were increasingly by lesser known composers and the programming was expanded to include prose drama, band concerts, and circuses. By 1904 the theatre, which was essentially constructed of wood was pronounced a serious fire hazard and closed. It was almost completely demolished and then rebuilt in stone to a design by Nazzareno Moretti. The resurrected theatre reopened in 1914.\n\nThe Teatro Carcano saw the Milan premiere of Verdi's \"La battaglia di Legnano\" (1859); the first concert of Wagner's music to be given in the city (conducted by Franco Faccio, 1883); and the Italian premiere of Massenet's \"Manon\" (1893). The actress Eleonora Duse appeared before Milanese audiences for the first time in May 1884 in a season of plays performed at the Carcano by Cesare Rossi's theatre company. Duse performed in the leading roles in \"Fédora\" which opened the season and \"The Lady of the Camellias\" which ended it.\n\nOperas which had their world premieres at the theatre include: \n"}
{"id": "19635768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19635768", "title": "Technoseum", "text": "Technoseum\n\nThe Technoseum (former name State Museum of Technology and Work, German: \"Landesmuseum für Technik und Arbeit\") is a technology museum in Mannheim, Baden-Württemberg, Germany, with displays covering the industrialisation of the south-western regions of the country.\n\nThe museum building was designed by the Berlin architect, Ingeborg Kuhler. Its planning and construction period lasted from 1982 to 1990.\n\nVisitors who walk through the building from top to bottom will experience a journey in time from the beginning of the industrial revolution in the state of Baden-Württemberg to the present day.\n\nStands portraying the technical, social and political changes since the 18th century include those on clocks, paper manufacture and weaving. There are displays of living and working premises as well as machinery from the fields of industry, transport and the office. These displays enable the visitor to gain a graphic understanding of the far-reaching changes in living and working conditions right up to the present. \n\nThe \"Elementa\" workshop complements the themes and exhibits of technological, economic and social history shown to date. It is not limited to covering basic scientific principles, but also shows the technical inventions which resulted from various scientific experiments.\n\nRunning from end-to-end through the middle of the museum is a dual-gauge metre gauge and standard gauge railway track. On this track a fireless locomotive operates steam-haul trips outside of the museum, over a bridge and then back into the museum again.\n\nSince 2006, between May and October each year a \"\" narrow gauge trains runs in a loop around the Technoseum park grounds. The track gauge is and there are two regular small diesel locomotives. One locomotive was built in 1961 and worked mining peat in Schleswig-Holstein; the other one was built in 1964 and matches a locomotive used at the nearby Tonwaren-Industrie Wiesloch brickworks.\n\nThe selection of visiting or temporary exhibitions have included:\n\n"}
{"id": "32099336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32099336", "title": "The Grey (film)", "text": "The Grey (film)\n\nThe Grey is a 2011 survival film co-written, produced and directed by Joe Carnahan and starring Liam Neeson, Frank Grillo and Dermot Mulroney. It is based on the short story \"Ghost Walker\" by Ian MacKenzie Jeffers, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Carnahan. The story follows a number of oil-men stranded in Alaska after a plane crash, who must wage a war against a pack of grey wolves stalking them amidst mercilessly cold weather. \n\nReleased in the United States on January 27, 2012, the film received praise for its philosophical themes, cinematography, sound effects and acting, while some of the dialogue and the film's ending were criticized; it grossed $77 million worldwide.\n\nJohn Ottway (Liam Neeson) works in Alaska as a marksman for an undisclosed oil company, killing grey wolves that threaten the drillers. On his last day on the job, he shoots one. That evening, Ottway writes a letter \"without purpose\" to his wife, Ana (Anne Openshaw), explaining his plans to commit suicide. He hears a distant wolf howl and doesn't follow through.\n\nThe next day, Ottway and other oil drillers board a plane. During the flight, Ottway dreams of sleeping with his wife in bed but is awakened by a loud bang. He buckles up in fear of a possible plane crash. Shortly afterwards, the back of the plane is torn off and it crashes. Eight people including Ottway survive the crash. However, a young oil worker, Lewenden (James Badge Dale), dies of his injuries as Ottway sadly watches. Taking charge, Ottway sets the survivors on the task of building a fire. While doing this, he discovers a corpse, and is attacked by the grey wolf feeding on it. After saving Ottway, the group soon surmises that they are in the wolves' territory. They decide to take turns keeping watch for the predators.\n\nLater, Hernandez (Ben Bray) is killed by two wolves. Ottway suggests they leave the crash site, but Diaz (Frank Grillo) questions his leadership. While searching for the wallets of their deceased colleagues, intending to return them to their families, Diaz finds an emergency wrist watch containing a radio beacon. The group then leaves the site.\n\nWhile walking, Flannery (Joe Anderson) falls behind, and is killed by wolves. One of them spots a pack of wolves approaching and the survivors run for the trees, lighting a fire in an attempt to ward off their attackers. The group sets about producing makeshift weaponry. A stressed Diaz loses his cool somewhat and belligerently threatens Ottway with a knife, but is quickly disarmed and begins regretting his actions. As he's about to apologize, he's suddenly pounced upon by a wolf from behind. An omega wolf sent by the alpha wolf to test them, Ottway later surmises, after the survivors manage to kill it and then roast it for food. A bloodied and crazed Diaz, elated at having survived the attack, beheads the corpse and loudly howls like a wolf, then defiantly throws the severed head back at the pack. A move noted by the group as possibly unwise, as they accept a statement that \"wolves are known to take revenge\".\n\nWhile sitting around the fire, Diaz tells the group of his atheism and Talget (Dermot Mulroney) states he believes in God and lovingly talks about his daughter. Ottway states he is also an atheist, but wishes he could believe or have faith; he then recites a simple poem written by his father. A blizzard approaches; some survivors set to maintaining the fire while the others get some rest.\n\nThe following morning, Burke (Nonso Anozie), who had earlier been suffering from hypoxia, is found dead. The remaining survivors leave the camp and travel to the edge of a steep canyon. Hendrick (Dallas Roberts) secures a line across to a tall tree opposite and Diaz & Ottway traverse the canyon. Talget, however, is afraid of heights and with the added handicap of a bleeding mangled hand, when his foot becomes caught on a hook, in the ensuing struggle the rope breaks away. He falls to the ground, getting severely thrashed by tree branches on the way down; barely alive, he hallucinates a vision of his daughter, but is instantly set upon and dragged away by four wolves. While attempting to save Talget, Diaz falls from the tree and badly injures his knee.\n\nDiaz, Ottway, and Hendrick continue and arrive at a river. There, Diaz, humbled by his journey and unable to walk on, explains that he can accept dying in the middle of nature and will not try to keep running. They part company, leaving a tearful Diaz contemplating the glorious mountainous vista, resigned to his fate. Reluctantly Ottway and Hendrick continue on together. Further along the river, Ottway and Hendrick are set upon by the wolves. In an attempt to flee, Hendrick falls into the river and in the chaos is trapped beneath the surface when his foot gets wedged between boulders. Ottway attempts to save him but unable to pull him loose, Hendrick soon drowns. Frustrated and now alone, Ottway looks up and angrily appeals to God for help, to \"show him something real\", but seeing nothing, he decides he will “do this on my own.”\n\nOttway, cold and wet, continues on alone. Exhausted, he stops walking and begins going through the collected wallets of the others. Ottway then realizes he has stumbled right into the wolves' den - and that the team had been steadily walking towards, not away from, the source of danger. Surrounded by the pack and having the leader of the pack standing in front of him, he looks at his wife's photo in his wallet; it is then revealed that she was dying of a terminal illness (hence his own futility earlier) and that he was trying to kill himself earlier in the film but unable to do so. As the large, snarling alpha wolf approaches him, Ottway arms himself with a knife and shards of glass from small liquor bottles taped to his other hand. He recites the words \"Once more into the fray. Into the last good fight I'll ever know. Live and die on this day. Live and die on this day.\"\n\nIn a brief post-credits scene, the alpha wolf lies on the ground, breathing slowly and deeply. Ottway lies against the wolf, viewed from the back - his fate is unclear.\n\n\n\"The Grey\" reunited director Joe Carnahan with producers Ridley Scott and Tony Scott (credited as executive producer) as well as actor Liam Neeson, who collaborated on the 2010 action film \"The A-Team\". The film initially imagined a much-younger lead character and\nBradley Cooper, who also worked with Carnahan on \"The A-Team\", was cast in the lead role, but he was eventually replaced by Neeson.\n\nFilming began in January 2011 and ended in March. The film was shot in forty days. Though set in Alaska, the film was shot in Vancouver and Smithers, British Columbia, with several scenes being shot at the\nSmithers Regional Airport. According to Empire magazine, in the climactic scene in which Neeson's character pens a letter to his wife, Carnahan urged Neeson to \"channel his grief\" over the death of his own wife, Natasha Richardson. Carnahan disclosed, in a Q&A session following an early screening at the Aero Theatre in Santa Monica, that he had shot an alternative ending (that he'd never intended to use) showing Neeson battling the alpha wolf. It was supposed to be included in deleted cuts, however, no extras were included on the Blu-ray.\n\nThe world premiere of \"The Grey\" took place on January 11, 2012, at the Regal Cinemas Theatre in Los Angeles. The film was released nationwide on January 27, 2012.\n\nPromotion for \"The Grey\" in part targeted Christian groups by issuing a \"film companion\", which highlighted the spiritual value of the film. Marketing also partnered with The Weather Network to highlight the hazardous filming conditions. Open Road Films incorporated comments tweeted by film critics to promote the film in the third trailer for \"The Grey\". This was the first time tweets from and Twitter handles for professional critics had been used in a film trailer.\n\nThe score for \"The Grey\" was released on CD February 14, 2012. A digital version available for download was released on January 24, 2012.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 80% based on 200 reviews, with an average rating of 6.9/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"\"The Grey\" is an exciting tale of survival, populated with fleshed-out characters and a surprising philosophical agenda.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 64 out of 100, based on 35 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B–\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nRoger Ebert gave the film 3 and a half stars out of 4, and wrote that the unrelenting harshness of \"The Grey\" so affected him that he departed the screening of a different movie on the same day:\n\nThe film also earned a place on A.O. Scott's list of the year's ten best films, and \"Slate\" film critic Dana Stevens included it in her runners-up for the year's best movies. Film critic Richard Roeper also had \"The Grey\" in his top 10 best movies of 2012 list, placing it at number 3.\n\nDissenters' reviews tend to focus on the film's abrupt ending and perceive the emotional and philosophical undertones as unnecessary. Siobhan Synnot of \"The Scotsman\" gave the film two stars, commenting that \"On the down side, there's a lot of dull pretentious philosophizing about the heartlessness of nature and God. On the up side, you get to see a man punch a wolf in the face.\" Some reviewers and analysts have described the film as having an atheist theme, due to characters such as John Ottway (Liam Neeson) pleading for divine help but not getting any.\n\nThe Grey opened in North America on January 27, 2012 in 3,185 theaters and grossed $19.7 million in its opening weekend, with an average of $6,174 per theater, finishing first. The film ultimately earned $51.6 million domestically, and $25.7 million internationally, for a total of $77.3 million, against its $25 million production budget.\n\nOn January 19, 2012, British Columbia's \"The Province\" featured an article about the movie's crew buying four wolf carcasses from a local trapper, two for props for the film and two wolves for the cast to eat. This angered environmentalists and animal activists, who were already irate that the film depicts wolves in a negative light, specifically at a time when grey wolves had recently been removed from the Endangered Species Act in many western American states. In response to the portrayal of wolves in the film, groups including PETA and WildEarth Guardians started drives to boycott the film. Open Road responded by placing a fact sheet about the grey wolf on the film's official website, with cooperation from the Sierra Club. Carnahan responded by downplaying the significance of the violent wolves portrayed in the film, instead highlighting the significance of man's internal struggle for survival.\n\nThe film was nominated in 2012 for the International Wolf Center's Scat Award in \"Scare Tactics and Silly Information\" categories, being granted said distinction in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "216867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216867", "title": "The Market for Lemons", "text": "The Market for Lemons\n\n\"The Market for Lemons: Quality Uncertainty and the Market Mechanism\" is a well-known 1970 paper by economist George Akerlof which examines how the quality of goods traded in a market can degrade in the presence of information asymmetry between buyers and sellers, leaving only \"lemons\" behind. In American slang, a lemon is a car that is found to be defective only after it has been bought.\n\nSuppose buyers cannot distinguish between a high-quality car (a \"peach\") and a \"lemon\". Then they are only willing to pay a fixed price for a car that averages the value of a \"peach\" and \"lemon\" together (\"p\"). But sellers know whether they hold a peach or a lemon. Given the fixed price at which buyers will buy, sellers will sell only when they hold \"lemons\" (since \"p\" < \"p\") and they will leave the market when they hold \"peaches\" (since \"p\" > \"p\"). Eventually, as enough sellers of \"peaches\" leave the market, the average willingness-to-pay of buyers will decrease (since the average quality of cars on the market decreased), leading to even more sellers of high-quality cars to leave the market through a positive feedback loop. \n\nThus the uninformed buyer's price creates an adverse selection problem that drives the high-quality cars from the market. Adverse selection is a market mechanism that can lead to a market collapse. \n\nAkerlof's paper shows how prices can determine the quality of goods traded on the market. Low prices drive away sellers of high-quality goods, leaving only lemons behind. In 2001, Akerlof, along with Michael Spence, and Joseph Stiglitz, jointly received the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences, for their research on issues related to asymmetric information.\n\nAkerlof's paper uses the market for used cars as an example of the problem of quality uncertainty. A used car is one in which ownership is transferred from one person to another, after a period of use by its first owner and its inevitable wear and tear. There are good used cars (\"peaches\") and defective used cars (\"lemons\"), normally as a consequence of several not-always-traceable variables, such as the owner's driving style, quality and frequency of maintenance, and accident history. Because many important mechanical parts and other elements are hidden from view and not easily accessible for inspection, the buyer of a car does not know beforehand whether it is a peach or a lemon. So the buyer's best guess for a given car is that the car is of average quality; accordingly, he/she will be willing to pay for it only the price of a car of known average quality. This means that the owner of a carefully maintained, never-abused, good used car will be unable to get a high enough price to make selling that car worthwhile.\n\nTherefore, owners of good cars will not place their cars on the used car market. The withdrawal of good cars reduces the average quality of cars on the market, causing buyers to revise downward their expectations for any given car. This, in turn, motivates the owners of moderately good cars not to sell, and so on. The result is that a market in which there is asymmetric information with respect to quality shows characteristics similar to those described by Gresham's Law: the bad drives out the good. (Although Gresham's principle applies more specifically to exchange rates, modified analogies can be drawn.) \n\nAkerlof considers a situation in which demand \"D\" for used cars depends on the cars price \"p\" and quality \"µ\" = \"µ\"(\"p\") and the supply depends on price alone. Economic equilibrium is given by \"S\"(\"p\") = \"D\"(\"p\",\"µ\") and there are two groups of traders with utilities given by:\n\nwhere \"M\" is the consumption of goods other than automobiles, \"x\" the car's quality and \"n\" the number of automobiles. Let \"Y\", \"D\" and \"S\" be income, demand and supply for group \"i\". Assuming that utilities are linear, that the traders are Von Neumann–Morgenstern utility maximizers and that the price of other \"M\" goods is unitary, the demand \"D\" for cars is \"Y\"/\"p\" if \"μ\"/\"p\" > 1, otherwise null. The demand \"D\" is \"Y\"/\"p\" if 3\"μ\"/\"2\" > \"p\", otherwise null. Market demand is given by:\n\nGroup 1 has \"N\" cars to sell with quality between 0 and 2 and group 2 has no cars to sell, therefore \"S\" = \"pN\"/2 and \"S\" = 0. For a given price \"p\", average quality is \"p\"/2, and therefore \"D\" = 0. The market for used cars collapses when there is asymmetric information.\n\nThe paper by Akerlof describes how the interaction between quality heterogeneity and asymmetric information can lead to the disappearance of a market where guarantees are indefinite. In this model, as quality is indistinguishable beforehand by the buyer (due to the asymmetry of information), incentives exist for the seller to pass off low-quality goods as higher-quality ones. The buyer, however, takes this incentive into consideration, and takes the quality of the goods to be uncertain. Only the average quality of the goods will be considered, which in turn will have the side effect that goods that are above average in terms of quality will be driven out of the market. This mechanism is repeated until a no-trade equilibrium is reached.\n\nAs a consequence of the mechanism described in this paper, markets may fail to exist altogether in certain situations involving quality uncertainty. Examples given in Akerlof's paper include the market for used cars, the dearth of formal credit markets in developing countries, and the difficulties that the elderly encounter in buying health insurance. However, not all players in a given market will follow the same rules or have the same aptitude of assessing quality. So there will always be a distinct advantage for some vendors to offer low-quality goods to the less-informed segment of a market that, on the whole, appears to be of reasonable quality and have reasonable guarantees of certainty. This is part of the basis for the idiom buyer beware.\n\nThis is likely the basis for the idiom that an informed consumer is a better consumer. An example of this might be the subjective quality of fine food and wine. Individual consumers know best what they prefer to eat, and quality is almost always assessed in fine establishments by smell and taste before they pay. That is, if a customer in a fine establishment orders a lobster and the meat is not fresh, he can send the lobster back to the kitchen and refuse to pay for it. However, a definition of 'highest quality' for food eludes providers. Thus, a large variety of better-quality and higher-priced restaurants are supported.\n\nThe article draws some conclusions about the cost of dishonesty in markets in general:\n\nGeorge E. Hoffer and Michael D. Pratt state that the “economic literature is divided on whether a lemons market actually exists in used vehicles”. The authors’ research supports the hypothesis that “known defects provisions”, used by US states (e.g., Wisconsin) to regulate used car sales, have been ineffectual, because the quality of used vehicles sold in these states is not significantly better than the vehicles in neighboring states without such consumer protection legislation.\n\nBoth the \"American Economic Review\" and the \"Review of Economic Studies\" rejected the paper for \"triviality\", while the reviewers for \"Journal of Political Economy\" rejected it as incorrect, arguing that, if this paper were correct, then no goods could be traded. Only on the fourth attempt did the paper get published in \"Quarterly Journal of Economics\". Today, the paper is one of the most-cited papers in modern economic theory and most downloaded economic journal paper of all time in RePEC (more than 8,530 citations in academic papers as of May 2011). It has profoundly influenced virtually every field of economics, from industrial organisation and public finance to macroeconomics and contract theory.\n\nLibertarians, like William L. Anderson, oppose the regulatory approach proposed by the authors of the paper, observing that some used-car markets haven't broken down even without lemon legislation and that the lemon problem creates entrepreneurial opportunities for alternative marketplaces or customers' knowledgeable friends.\n\nA lemon market will be produced by the following:\n\n\nFive years after Akerlof's paper was published, the United States enacted a federal \"lemon law\" (the Magnuson–Moss Warranty Act) that protects citizens of all states. There are also state laws regarding \"lemons\" which vary by state and may not necessarily cover used or leased vehicles. The rights afforded to consumers by \"lemon laws\" may exceed the warranties expressed in purchase contracts. These state laws provide remedies to consumers for automobiles that repeatedly fail to meet certain standards of quality and performance. \"Lemon law\" is the common nickname for these laws, but each state has different names for the laws and acts, which may also cover more than just automobiles. In California and federal law, \"Lemon Laws\" cover anything mechanical.\n\nThe federal \"lemon law\" also provides that the warrantor may be obligated to pay the attorney fees of the party prevailng in a lemon , as do most state lemon laws. If a car has to be repaired for the same defect four or more times and the problem is still occurring, the car may be deemed to be \"a lemon\". The defect must substantially hinder the vehicle's use, value, or safety. Purchasers who knowingly purchase a car in \"as is\" condition accept the defects and void their rights under the \"lemon law\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22951758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22951758", "title": "The Poem Tree", "text": "The Poem Tree\n\nThe Poem Tree was a beech tree with a poem carved into it by Joseph Tubb, located on Castle Hill at Wittenham Clumps in Oxfordshire, England. The tree, which was believed to be around 300 years old, collapsed through a combination of long-standing rot and inclement weather in July 2012. It died in the 1990s and after that, rotted completely while standing.\n\nThe poem was carved in the 1840s. A stone, including a transcription and rubbing of the poem, was erected close to the tree in 1994 to commemorate the 150th anniversary of the carving.\n\nTubb carved the 20-line poem into the tree over two weeks in the summer. Taking a ladder and a tent to the beech tree, Tubb carved the poem into the tree from memory, regularly forgetting to take the original copy with him. Sources vary as to whether the carving took place in 1844 or between 1844 and 1845.\n\nThe poem was inspired by Tubb's fondness of the surrounding landscape, which is described in the first half of the first stanza. It has been suggested that the poem, which is also a summary of the location's history, was an example of Tubb's repressed creativity — his ambition was to be a wood carver but was pressured into being a maltster through family tradition. The \"ancient earthwork\" at \"Mercia's bounds\" may be Grim's Ditch or The Ridgeway (the latter is formed by part of Grim's Ditch). At the time of Alfred the Great, the border between Mercia and Wessex ran roughly in a line from east to west through the region. The mention of Cwichelm's (or Culchelm's) grave refers to Scutchamer Knob, a barrow on The Ridgeway near Grim's Ditch, approximately south-west of the Poem Tree. The barrow was originally known as Cwichelmeshlaew or Cwichelm's Barrow, and is historically recorded as the site at which Cwichelm of Wessex was killed by Edwin of Northumbria in 636. Tubb's assertion that the barrow could be seen in the misty distance is plausible; Tim Allen (an Oxford-based archaeologist) suggests that on a clear day the Berkshire Downs can be viewed from the hills and vice versa.\n\nThe \"smooth waters\" of the River Thames refers to the river running through Dorchester-on-Thames, where the \"monastic pride\" of the Augustinian Dorchester Abbey is mentioned.\n\nThe disinterred coffins may refer to an 18th-century discovery of two skeletons at the summit of Round Hill. The slopes of the two hills were used for grazing, where excavations have revealed remains of buildings (including a possible Roman villa).\n\nIn 1965, British geographer Henry Osmaston took a rubbing of the poem before it became largely illegible.\n\nIn the 1980s, the health of the tree began to decline and it died in the early 1990s. By the time of its collapse in 2012, the poem had become difficult to read; the few legible letters having been distorted with growth of the tree.\n\nIn 1994, a plaque and stone were placed nearby to commemorate 150 years since the carving. The plaque, which features a copy of Osmaston's 1965 tracing, is fixed to a large Sarsen stone.\n\nFollowing its collapse, a crane was used to help make the tree safe but the much decayed trunk disintegrated. A few days later a tribute of flowers including gladioli were left anonymously on the shattered trunk. The remains of the tree have been left in situ to form a natural habitat.\n"}
{"id": "2247269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2247269", "title": "Theatre Guild", "text": "Theatre Guild\n\nThe Theatre Guild is a theatrical society founded in New York City in 1918 by Lawrence Langner, Philip Moeller, Helen Westley and Theresa Helburn. Langner's wife, Armina Marshall, then served as a co-director. It evolved out of the work of the Washington Square Players. \n\nIts original purpose was to produce non-commercial works by American and foreign playwrights. It differed from other theaters at the time in that its board of directors shared the responsibility of choosing plays, management, and production. The Theatre Guild contributed greatly to the success of Broadway from the 1920s throughout the 1970s.\n\nThe Guild has produced a total of 228 plays on Broadway, including 18 by George Bernard Shaw and seven by Eugene O'Neill. Other major playwrights introduced to theatre-going Americans include Robert E. Sherwood, Maxwell Anderson, Sidney Howard, William Saroyan, and Philip Barry. In the field of musical theatre, the Guild has promoted works by Richard Rodgers, teamed with both Lorenz Hart and Oscar Hammerstein II, George and Ira Gershwin, Jule Styne, and Meredith Willson, all of which have become classics. Under President John F. Kennedy, the Guild was engaged to assemble a U.S. theatre company, headed by Helen Hayes, to tour the capitals of Europe and South America with works by Tennessee Williams, Thornton Wilder, and William Gibson. \n\nIn 1968, the Guild became involved in the travel field by taking 25 of its subscribers to European capitals to see plays. In 1975, it instituted its Theatre At Sea program with a 17-day cruise aboard the \"Rotterdam\" with Hayes and Cyril Ritchard. Since then they have hosted more than thirty cruises, each with seven or eight performers. Among them have been Alan Arkin, Zoe Caldwell, Anne Jackson, Cherry Jones, Richard Kiley, Eartha Kitt, Patricia Neal, Lynn Redgrave, Gena Rowlands, Jean Stapleton, Eli Wallach, and Lee Roy Reams, who served as the program's resident director.\n\nThe last Broadway play produced by The Theatre Guild was \"State Fair\" in 1996. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37986095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37986095", "title": "Trial of Nicolae and Elena Ceaușescu", "text": "Trial of Nicolae and Elena Ceaușescu\n\nThe trial of Nicolae and Elena Ceaușescu was a short trial held on 25 December 1989 by an Exceptional Military Tribunal, a drumhead court-martial created at the request of the Council of the National Salvation Front, resulting in the death sentence and execution of former Romanian President and Romanian Communist Party General Secretary, Nicolae Ceaușescu, and his wife, Elena Ceaușescu.\n\nMarked by irregularities that are typical of kangaroo courts and show trials, the main charge was genocide—namely, murdering \"over 60,000 people\" during the revolution in Timișoara. Other sources put the death toll between 689 to 1,200. Nevertheless, the charges did not affect the trial, as the verdict had been already decided before the Tribunal had been created; General Victor Stănculescu had brought with him a specially selected team of paratroopers from a crack regiment, handpicked earlier in the morning to act as a firing squad. Before the legal proceedings began, Stănculescu had already selected the spot where the execution would take place—along one side of the wall in the barracks' square.\n\nNicolae Ceaușescu refused to recognize the Tribunal, arguing its lack of constitutional basis and claiming that the revolutionary authorities were part of a Soviet plot.\n\nOn 22 December, during the Romanian Revolution, Nicolae and Elena Ceaușescu left the Central Committee building in Bucharest by helicopter toward Snagov, from which they left soon after towards Pitești. The helicopter pilot claimed to be in danger of anti-aircraft fire, so he landed on the Bucharest–Târgoviște road, near Găești. They stopped a car driven by a certain Dr. Nicolae Decă, who took them to Văcăreşti, after which he informed the local authorities that the Ceaușescus were going toward Târgoviște. The Ceaușescus took another car and told its driver, Nicolae Petrisor, to drive them to Târgoviște. During the trip, the Ceaușescus heard news of the revolution on the car radio (by then the revolutionaries had taken control of the state media), causing Ceaușescu to angrily denounce the revolution as a \"coup d'état\". Petrisor took the couple to an agricultural center near Târgoviște, where the Ceaușescus were locked in an office and were later arrested by soldiers from a local army garrison.\n\nAs the new authorities heard the news of their apprehension from General Andrei Kemenici, the commander of the army unit, they began to discuss what to do with the Ceaușescus. Victor Stănculescu, who was Ceauşescu's last defence minister before going over to the revolution, wanted a quick execution, as did Gelu Voican Voiculescu. Ion Iliescu, Romania's provisional president, supported holding a trial first.\n\nDuring the evening of 24 December, Stănculescu sent the secret code \"recourse to the method\" to Kemenici, referring to the execution of the Ceaușescus. A ten-member tribunal was formed to try the case. The members of the panel were all military judges.\n\nThe charges were published in \"Monitorul Oficial\" the day after the execution:\n\nThe morning of the trial, prominent lawyer Nicu Teodorescu was having Christmas breakfast with his family when he was telephoned by an aide to Iliescu, and asked by the National Salvation Front to be the Ceaușescus' defense counsel. He replied that it \"would be an interesting challenge\". Teodorescu met the couple for the first time in the Târgoviște \"court room\", when he was given ten minutes to consult with his clients. With so little time to prepare any defense, he tried to explain to them that their best hope of avoiding the death sentence was to plead insanity. However, the Ceaușescus brushed away the idea. According to Teodorescu, \"When [he] suggested it, Elena in particular said it was an outrageous set-up. They felt deeply insulted. ... They rejected [his] help after that.\"\n\nThe trial of Nicolae and Elena Ceaușescu was very brief, lasting approximately one hour. Ceaușescu defended himself by arguing that the Tribunal was against the 1965 Constitution of Romania and that only the Great National Assembly had the power to depose him. He argued that it was a \"coup d'état\" organized by the Soviets.\n\nNicolae and Elena Ceaușescu were convicted on all charges and condemned to death in a Stalinist-style trial. At one point, their forcibly-assigned lawyers abandoned their clients' defense and joined with the prosecutor, accusing them of capital crimes instead of defending them. No offer of proof was made for the Ceaușescus' alleged crimes. They were tried based on references, solely by offense-name or hearsay, to criminal acts they had committed in the opinion of prosecutors, or as alleged in press reports. Various irregularities presented themselves, or became apparent post-trial:\n\nBefore the execution, Nicolae Ceaușescu declared, \"We could have been shot without having this masquerade!\"\n\nJust after the trial, the Ceaușescus were executed at 4:00 p.m. local time at a military base outside Bucharest on 25 December 1989. The execution was carried out by a firing squad consisting of elite paratroop regiment soldiers: Captain Ionel Boeru, Sergeant-Major Georghin Octavian and Dorin-Marian Cirlan, while reportedly hundreds of others also volunteered. The Ceaușescus' hands were tied by four soldiers before the execution. Popular history author Simon Sebag Montefiore has claimed that, before the sentences were carried out, Elena Ceaușescu screamed, \"You sons of bitches!\" while being led outside and lined up against the wall; at the same time Nicolae Ceaușescu sang The Internationale. The firing squad began shooting as soon as the two were in position against a wall. In 1990, a member of the National Salvation Front reported that 120 bullets were found in the couple's bodies. The firing happened too soon for the film crew covering the events to record it in full; only the last round of shots was filmed. \nOthers believe the shooting recorded in the trial footage was not from the actual execution but was staged afterwards, with soldiers firing a few more rounds into the corpses a second time, just for the camera. This was probably done to give the footage a more dramatic \"climax\" since the moment of the actual execution was missed by the film crew.\n\nAs the dust settled the cameraman, still filming, was seen walking towards the couple's bodies. Elena had fallen to her right while Nicolae had collapsed where he was. A soldier and a medical doctor then began to approach the bodies to confirm that the Ceaușescus had in fact been successfully executed. The cameraman requested that her blood soaked scarf which had fallen across Elena's head be lifted so her face could be clearly filmed. Similarly, while the doctor was confirming Nicolae Ceaușescu's death he was asked to lift up his head for the camera as well. \n\nIn 1989, Prime Minister Petre Roman told French television that the execution was carried out quickly due to rumors that loyalists would rescue the couple.\n\nAfter the execution, the bodies were covered with canvas. The Ceaușescus' corpses were flown to Bucharest and buried five days later in Ghencea Cemetery on 30 December 1989.\n\nThe hasty trial and the images of the dead Ceaușescus were videotaped and the footage promptly released in numerous western countries two days after the execution. Later that day, it was also shown on Romanian television. The Ceaușescus were the last people to be executed in Romania before the abolition of capital punishment on 7 January 1990.\n\nValentin Ceauşescu, elder son of the Ceauşescus, argued in 2009 that the revolutionary forces should have killed his parents when they had arrested them on 22 December since they did not need any trial. After making vague comments about the incident, Iliescu stated that it was \"quite shameful, but necessary\". In a similar vein, Stănculescu told the BBC in 2009 that the trial was \"not just, but it was necessary\" because the alternative would have been seeing Nicolae lynched on the streets of Bucharest. \n\nSeveral countries criticized the new rulers of Romania after the execution due to lack of public trial. The United States was the most prominent critic of the trial, stating: \"We regret the trial did not take place in an open and public fashion.\"\n"}
{"id": "54527639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54527639", "title": "Trump Tower meeting", "text": "Trump Tower meeting\n\nThe Trump Tower meeting took place on June 9, 2016 in New York City between three senior members of the 2016 Trump campaignDonald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner, and Paul Manafortand at least five other people, including Russian lawyer Natalia Veselnitskaya. The meeting was arranged by publicist and long-time Trump acquaintance, Rob Goldstone on behalf of his client, singer-songwriter Emin Agalarov. It was disclosed to U.S. government officials when Kushner filed a revised version of his security clearance form.\n\nDonald Trump Jr. made several misleading statements about the meeting. He initially told the press that the meeting was held to discuss adoptions of Russian children by Americans. On July 8, 2017, after news reports stated that Trump Jr. knew the meeting was political, he admitted in a tweet that he had agreed to the meeting with the understanding that he would receive information damaging to Hillary Clinton, and that he was conducting opposition research. When the \"New York Times\" was about to report on email exchanges between Goldstone and Trump Jr., Trump Jr. himself admitted that Goldstone had stated in an email to him that the Russian government was involved and that the purpose of the meeting was to get \"dirt on Clinton\" and that the meeting concerned a \"Russian effort to aid the (Trump) campaign.\" In early July 2017, it was reported that President Donald Trump himself drafted Trump Jr.'s initial misleading statement. The report was later confirmed by the president's attorneys.\n\nRobert Mueller, the special counsel of the Department of Justice in charge of Russia-related investigations, is investigating the emails and the meeting, and their relation to the Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections.\n\nPrior to the Trump Tower meeting, Trump campaign advisor George Papadopoulos met at least twice with a professor who said he had access to \"dirt\" on Hillary Clinton in the form of \"thousands of emails\". This occurred before the hacking of the DNC computers had become public knowledge. Papadopoulos later shared this information with at least two other people, including an Australian diplomat to Britain. At a meeting on March 24, 2016, the professor brought along a Russian woman, Olga Polonskaya. Papadopoulos made multiple unsuccessful attempts to set up meetings in Russia between Trump or members of his campaign and Russian officials. He communicated his proposals and interactions to several Trump campaign officials. In October 2017 he pleaded guilty to one count of making false statements to the FBI about his actions.\nOn June 3, 2016, before the public was made aware of potential Russian interference in the presidential election, Donald Trump Jr. was contacted by Rob Goldstone, a British music publicist whose association with the Trumps dates back to the Miss Universe 2013 pageant held in Moscow; at that time, Trump Jr.'s father, businessman Donald Trump, had been co-owner of the pageant. Goldstone's client, Emin Agalarov, an Azerbaijani singer, performed at the Miss Universe event. His father, Aras Agalarov, is a wealthy real estate developer in Moscow.\n\nIn his June 3 email to Trump Jr., Goldstone wrote:\n\nTrump Jr. responded:\n\nIn a June 7 email, it was agreed that the material would be delivered to Trump Jr. by an unnamed \"Russian government attorney\". At the meeting, Goldstone introduced this person as Moscow-based attorney Natalia Veselnitskaya. She stated that she was not a government official, however she is known to have ties to the Russian government and later described herself as an \"informant\" to the office of the Russian prosecutor general. According to Goldstone, she had planned to be in New York for a court appearance on June 9. Trump Jr. offered an in-person meeting that afternoon, which Goldstone confirmed. Trump Jr. forwarded the email thread to Kushner and Manafort.\n\nThe arranged meeting took place at Trump Tower in the afternoon of June 9, 2016. At least eight people attended. When the meeting first became known, conflicting accounts of who attended circulated. With time, more names came forward. At first, Donald Trump, Jr. did not disclose that Irakly \"Ike\" Kaveladze, Rob Goldstone, and Anatoli Samachornov attended the meeting.<ref name=\"Bertrand_8/31/2017\"></ref>\n\n\n\n\nTrump Jr. initially told reporters that the meeting had been \"primarily about adoptions\". He then released a statement saying it had been a \"short introductory meeting\" concerning \"a program about the adoption of Russian children\". A few days later Trump Jr. acknowledged that he went into the meeting expecting to receive opposition research from Veselnitskaya that could hurt Clinton's campaign, adding that none was presented and that the conversation instead focused on the Magnitsky Act. Later a statement from Trump Jr.'s lawyer said Veselnitskaya had claimed to have information \"that individuals connected to Russia were funding the Democratic National Committee and supporting Mrs. Clinton\" but \"it quickly became clear that she had no meaningful information\". Trump Jr. said he felt the adoption issue was her \"true agenda all along\" and the claims of helpful political information were a pretext. After learning that the New York Times was about to publish the series of emails setting up the meeting, Trump Jr. himself published the email chain via Twitter, and explained that he considered the meeting to be \"political opposition research\". He summarized the meeting as \"such a nothing... a wasted 20 minutes\".\n\nVeselnitskaya said that she intended to provide allegations to the Trump campaign about a firm connected to William Browder, a financier who lobbied for the Magnitsky Act. She said that the firm committed tax evasion in Russia and donated to Democrats. She said in an interview, \"I never had any damaging or sensitive information about Hillary Clinton. It was never my intention to have that.\" She initially denied the allegation that she was or is connected to the Russian government. At a later date she disclosed that she was in regular contact with the Russian Prosecutor General's office and with Prosecutor General Yury Chaika, about sharing information she acquired in her investigation relating to the Magnitsky Act.\n\nOn July 14, Akhmetshin stated in an interview that Veselnitskaya had claimed to have evidence of \"violations of Russian law by a Democratic donor\", and added that she \"described her findings at the meeting and left a document about them with Trump Jr. and the others.\"\n\nThe meeting, which took place on June 9, 2016, first came to the attention of authorities in April 2017, when Kushner reported on a revised security clearance form that he had met with Veselnitskaya. On July 8, 2017, \"The New York Times\" first mentioned a June 2016 meeting with \"a Russian lawyer who has connections to the Kremlin\", arranged by Trump Jr. and including Kushner and Manafort. Later that day, Trump Jr. released a statement calling it a \"short introductory meeting\" about American adoption of Russian children and \"not a campaign issue\". The next day it emerged that Goldstone had told Trump Jr. that the meeting would provide the Trump campaign with negative information about Clinton, and that this offer was \"part of Russia and its government's support for Mr. Trump\", without mentioning adoptions or the Magnitsky Act. Trump Jr. reacted by acknowledging that he had been expecting information about Clinton. Over the next few days the identity of the attendees was established.\n\nOn July 11 Trump Jr. tweeted the entire email chain leading up to the meeting, a few minutes before \"The New York Times\" published it as well. Trump Jr. stated that he would have preferred to just have a phone call but that didn't work out. He told Sean Hannity that the meeting had been fully arranged by email, and that he had received no further details by phone. He would later contradict this statement during a closed-door interview with the Senate Judiciary Committee on September 7, acknowledging three short phone calls with Agalarov prior to the meeting.\n\nOn July 12, 2017, President Trump stated in a Reuters interview that he had only known about the meeting for a couple of days, and that \"many people would have held that meeting\". Trump praised his son Don Jr. for his transparency in releasing the emails, and claimed that they were victims of a \"political witch hunt\". The same day Trump Jr. denied having told his father about the meeting. On July 13, Corey Lewandowski was asked on NBC's \"Meet the Press\" why he had not been invited to the meeting. He replied that he was at a Trump rally in Florida on the meeting date, but there was in fact no rally in Florida that day.<ref name=\"Kruzel_7/14/2017\"></ref> Instead, Trump attended a Trump Victory fundraising lunch at the Four Seasons Hotel in New York, and returned to Trump Tower at 1:02 PM, where he \"remained for the rest of the afternoon\". According to emails, the Veselnitskaya meeting was scheduled for 4:00 PM.<ref name=\"Merica_7/12/2017\"></ref>\n\nThe July 8 statement by Trump Jr. became controversial in its own right because of conflicting stories about who had written it. On July 11 it was reported that the statement had been drafted by presidential advisers aboard Air Force One on the way home from the G20 summit in Germany, and that it had been approved by President Trump. On July 12 Trump's lawyer Jay Sekulow insisted that it had been written by Trump Jr. in consultation with his lawyer, and that Donald Trump \"wasn't involved in that\". He repeated these statements on July 16. On July 31 \"The Washington Post\" reported that Trump had indeed personally dictated, worked on, and released the statement in Trump Jr's name, with claims that \"were later shown to be misleading\". According to \"The Post\", Trump had \"overruled the consensus\" of Trump Jr., Kushner, aides, and lawyers, who favored issuing a transparent account \"because they believed the complete story would eventually emerge.\" Some advisors reportedly feared \"that the president’s direct involvement leaves him needlessly vulnerable to allegations of a coverup.\" The next day, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders stated that Trump \"certainly didn't dictate, but ... he weighed in, offered suggestions, like any father would do\". In January 2018, in a confidential letter from Trump's legal team to special counsel Robert Mueller, Trump's lawyers acknowledged for the first time that Trump had in fact dictated the first statement put out about the meeting in Trump Jr.'s name, thus contradicting prior representations.\n\nAlthough Goldstone's emails described Veselnitskaya as a \"Russian government attorney\", Scott Balber, formerly a lawyer for Trump and now for Agalarov, said in a July 14, 2017 interview that she had no association with the Russian government. For his part, Akhmetshin denied having ties to Russian intelligence, and said that the efforts by Veselnitskaya and himself \"were not coordinated with the Russian government.\" Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the government didn't know Akhmetshin or Veselnitskaya, or anything about the meeting. In a November 2017 statement to the Senate Judiciary Committee, Veselnitskaya said \"I have no relationship with Mr. Chaika, his representatives and his institutions other than those related to my professional functions as a lawyer.\" However she also stated in April 2018: “I am a lawyer, and I am an informant,” adding that \"since 2013, I have been actively communicating with the office of the Russian prosecutor general,\" Yury Chaika.\n\nCNN reported on October 9 that Balber had obtained the memo which Veselnitskaya took to the meeting,<ref name=\"Brown_Herb_10/9/2017\"></ref> and it was released by \"Foreign Policy\".<ref name=\"Groll_10/16/2017\"></ref> The memo claimed that an American firm, Ziff Brothers Investments, illegally evaded tens of millions of dollars in Russian taxes, and contributed to Clinton's election campaign. Veselnitskaya reportedly coordinated this accusation in advance with Chaika, and Putin later repeated the charge.\n\nTwo previously undisclosed emails from Rob Goldstone emerged on December 7, as discovered by congressional investigators. The recipients included Trump Jr., Kushner, and Manafort. In a June 14, 2016 email, five days after the meeting, Goldstone forwarded a news story about Russian hacking of Democrats' emails, describing the news as \"eerily weird\" in light of what had been discussed at Trump Tower. This discovery contradicted the initial statement by Trump Jr. that \"there was no follow up\" after the meeting, as well as his September 2017 testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee in which he stated: \"Rob, Emin and I never discussed the meeting again\".\n\nOn May 16, 2018, the Senate Judiciary Committee released emails and text messages in which Trump attorney Alan S. Futerfas provided a prepared statement for Goldstone, Agalarov and Kaveladze, further asserting that it \"would be our preference\" if they did not say anything else in response to inquiries about the meeting.\n\nDemocratic Representatives Brad Sherman and Al Green sponsored a resolution to impeach President Trump. Sherman argued that Trump Jr.'s emails \"add credibility\" to the theory that Trump dismissed James Comey as Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation as an attempt to derail the ongoing investigation.\n\nOn July 10, 2017, the Vice Chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, Democratic Senator Mark Warner, stated that \"This is the first time that the public has seen clear evidence of senior level members of the Trump campaign meeting Russians to try to obtain information that might hurt the campaign of Hillary Clinton\". Warner also stated that the incident was part of a \"continuing pattern\" in which Trump officials and members of the Trump campaign have \"conveniently forgotten meetings with Russians only when they are then presented with evidence, they have to recant and acknowledge those kind of meetings\". Another member of the committee, the Republican Susan Collins, stated that Donald Trump Jr. and others who attended the meeting should testify before the committee. Representative Adam Schiff, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, described the matter as \"a very serious development\", and that \"It all warrants thorough investigation. Everyone who was in that meeting ought to come before our committee.\"\n\nRepublicans in Congress have been for the most part muted with their comments about the event. On July 10, 2017, Representative Ted Yoho (R-FL) when asked in an interview if he thought it was appropriate for Trump Jr. to take a meeting with a Russian national, responded that he \"probably would have done the same thing” calling it “opposition research\". On July 11, 2017, Representative Marsha Blackburn (R-TN) suggested that \"the president’s son may have been “duped” into attending the meeting\".\n\nThe meeting was regarded by some commentators as evidence of attempted collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.\n\nA statement issued by Mark Corallo, former spokesperson for Trump's legal team, suggested that the meeting was a \"setup\" and that Veselnitskaya and her translator had “misrepresented who they were”. He implied that the Russian lawyer was connected to the Clintons through British ex-spy Christopher Steele.\n\nThe Senate Intelligence Committee held a private hearing with Kushner on July 24. In the meeting he responded to questions by the Committee about his contacts with Russian officials and insisted that he had not colluded with foreign agents. He publicly released an 11-page written statement detailing four meetings he had with Russian officials during the campaign and transition periods, including the Trump Tower meeting. He said he had not known all the details about that meeting because he did not read all of the email chain that Trump Jr. had forwarded to him. The Intelligence Committee also met privately with Manafort on July 25.\n\nThe Committee on the Judiciary scheduled a hearing on July 26 on the subject \"Oversight of the Foreign Agents Registration Act and Attempts to Influence U.S. Elections: Lessons Learned from Current and Prior Administrations\". Trump Jr. and Manafort were originally scheduled to testify at that hearing, but each negotiated to meet privately with the committee on July 25 instead. They have also arranged to turn over requested documents to the committee. Among the documents Manafort turned over to congressional investigators were notes he took during the June 2016 meeting.<ref name=\"Helderman_Demirjian_7/25/2017\"></ref> Manafort and Trump Jr. are expected to testify in public eventually. William Browder testified before the Committee on the Judiciary on July 27, claiming that Veselnitskaya was representing the Kremlin's interests in the meeting, which was arranged for persuading the future lifting of the Magnistky Act.\n\nOn September 7, 2017, Donald Trump Jr. testified privately under questioning from Senate Judiciary Committee staffers. The New York Times reported that in his testimony, Trump Jr. acknowledged he had indeed sought the meeting in the hopes to obtain information about Clinton's \"fitness\".\n\nAs of July 2017, Robert Mueller, the special counsel of the Department of Justice in charge of Russia-related investigations, was looking into the Trump Tower meeting. The inquiry was confirmed by Kaveladze's attorney, who said special counsel investigators are seeking information from his client. On July 21, 2017, Mueller asked the White House to preserve all documents related to the Russian meeting in June 2016. By August 3, 2017, Mueller had impaneled a grand jury in the District of Columbia that issued subpoenas concerning the meeting. In April 2018, Mueller filed documents with the court that stated that the intended purpose of the raid on Manafort's home in July 2017 was to seek documents related to the Trump Tower meeting.\n\nIn August 2016, Donald Trump Jr. had a meeting with an emissary representing Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman and Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, the de facto ruler of the United Arab Emirates. The envoy offered help to the Trump presidential campaign. The meeting included Lebanese-American businessman George Nader, Joel Zamel, an Israeli specialist in social media manipulation, and American businessman Erik Prince.\n\nGeorge Papadopoulos joined Donald Trump's presidential campaign in early March 2016 as a foreign policy advisor. Within two weeks he was approached by a London-based professor with Russian connections, later identified as Joseph Mifsud. Mifsud told him that during a recent trip to Russia, he had learned that the Russians were in possession of thousands of stolen emails that were politically damaging to Hillary Clinton. This occurred before there was public knowledge of the hack of Democratic National Committee computers and of John Podesta's emails, both of which U.S. intelligence agencies believe were carried out by Russia.\n\nPapadopoulos met with Mifsud on March 14, 2016 in Rome, as well March 24 and April 26 in London. At the March 24 meeting Mifsud brought along Olga Polonskaya, a 30-year-old Russian woman from St. Petersburg. Papadopoulos later received an email from Mifsud indicating that Polonskaya was trying to contact him. On April 10 and 11, Papadopoulos contacted Polonskaya asking about a meeting with Russian Ambassador Kislyak, and Polonskaya responded that she had \"already alerted my personal links to our conversation and your request…As mentioned we are all very excited by the possibility of a good relationship with Mr. Trump. The Russian Federation would love to welcome him once his candidature would be officially announced.”\n\nPapadopoulos sent emails concerning Vladimir Putin to at least seven campaign officials. Trump national campaign co-chairman Sam Clovis encouraged Papadopoulos to fly to Russia to meet with agents of the Russian Foreign Ministry, after being told that Russia had \"dirt\" on Hillary Clinton it wanted to share with Trump's campaign.\n\nBetween March and September 2016, Papadopoulos made at least six requests for Trump or representatives of his campaign to meet in Russia with Russian politicians. In May, campaign chairman Paul Manafort forwarded one such request to his deputy Rick Gates, saying \"We need someone to communicate that (Trump) is not doing these trips. It should be someone low-level in the campaign so as not to send any signal.\" Gates delegated the task to the campaign's correspondence coordinator, referring to him as \"the person responding to all mail of non-importance\".\n\nIn May 2016, Papadopoulos reportedly revealed Russia's possession of Clinton-related emails at a chance “romantic encounter” with a woman who knew the top Australian diplomat to the United Kingdom, Alexander Downer. Papadopoulos later passed on the tip to him.<ref name=\"Wroe_1/5/2018\"></ref> Over a large quantity of wine, Papadopoulos reportedly confirmed to Downer the existence of these emails. After the DNC emails stolen by Russia were published by Wikileaks as an intermediary on July 22, 2016, Australian officials relayed Papadopoulos' statements to American officials. The revelation of Papadopoulos' inside information about Russia's stolen DNC emails was a driving factor in the FBI opening an investigation into the Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections in July 2016.\n\nPapadopoulos was arrested at Washington Dulles Airport on July 27, 2017, and he has since been cooperating with Special Counsel Robert Mueller in his investigation. On October 5, 2017, Papadopoulos pleaded guilty in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to making false statements to FBI agents relating to contacts he had with agents of the Russian government while working for the Trump campaign. Papadopoulos's arrest and guilty plea became public on October 30, 2017, when court documents showing the guilty plea were unsealed.\n\nCarter Page served as a foreign policy adviser in Donald Trump's 2016 Presidential campaign. On November 2, 2017, Page testified to the House Intelligence Committee that he had informed Jeff Sessions, Corey Lewandowski, Hope Hicks and other Trump campaign officials that he was traveling to Russia to give a speech in July 2016, and Corey Lewandowski approved the trip. Page testified that he met with Russian government officials during this trip and had sent a post-meeting report via email to members of the Trump campaign. He also indicated that campaign co-chairman Sam Clovis had asked him to sign a non-disclosure agreement about his trip. Elements of Page's testimony contradicted prior claims by Trump, Sessions, and others in the Trump administration. Lewandowski, who had previously denied knowing Page or meeting him during the campaign, said after Page's testimony that his memory was refreshed and acknowledged that he had been aware of Page's trip to Russia.\n\nPage also testified that after delivering a commencement speech at the New Economic School in Moscow, he spoke briefly with one of the people in attendance, Arkady Dvorkovich, a Deputy Prime Minister in Dmitry Medvedev's cabinet, contradicting his previous statements not to have spoken to anyone connected with the Russian government.\n\nThe Steele Dossier alleges that Igor Sechin, the president of state-run Russian oil conglomerate Rosneft, offered Page the brokerage of up to 19 percent of Rosneft if Trump worked to roll back the Magnitsky Act economic sanctions that had been imposed on Russia in 2012. It also alleges that Page confirmed, on Trump's \"full authority\", that this was Trump's intent.<ref name=\"Bertrand_2/11/2017\"></ref><ref name=\"Withnall_Sengupta_1/12/2017\"></ref><ref name=\"Bertrand_1/27/2017\"></ref><ref name=\"Roazen_2/21/2017\"></ref><ref name=\"Raju_Herb_Polantz_11/7/2017\"></ref> Page denied meeting with Sechin, but did acknowledge meeting with Andrey Baranov, Rosneft's head of investor relations. Carter said that he did not \"directly\" express support for lifting the sanctions during the meeting with Baranov, but that he might have mentioned the proposed Rosneft transaction.\n\nEleven days before Donald Trump's presidential inauguration, Trump's personal lawyer and fixer Michael Cohen met with Russian Oligarch Viktor Vekselberg and Andrew Intrater, an American businessman who invests money for Mr. Vekselberg, in Mr. Cohen's office on the 26th floor of Trump Tower. Days after the inauguration, Mr. Intrater's private equity firm, Columbus Nova, awarded Mr. Cohen a $1 million consulting contract, a deal that has drawn the attention of federal authorities investigating Mr. Cohen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25282561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25282561", "title": "Valentine Theatre", "text": "Valentine Theatre\n\nThe Valentine Theatre is located in the downtown district of Toledo, Ohio at the corner of Superior and Adams Streets. The -year-old facility seats 901. It is owned by the Toledo Cultural Arts Center and operated by the Columbus Association for the Performing Arts.\n\nThe building was added to the National Register of Historic Places on May 19, 1987. A $28 million renovation of the building carried out by architect Charles H. Stark, begun in 1978 and taking 21 years to complete, was unveiled on October 9, 1999.\n\nOn November 23, 2007, a natural gas explosion in the basement caused extensive damage and forced the evacuation of the adjoining Renaissance Senior Apartments. The theater reopened in April 2008 after repairs costing $3.5 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "6060318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6060318", "title": "Vancouver Fringe Festival", "text": "Vancouver Fringe Festival\n\nThe Vancouver Fringe Festival is an annual alternative theatre festival held in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada established in 1985. The event is organized and sponsored by the First Vancouver Theatrespace Society, a volunteer not-for-profit society. The festival is usually staged in September at a number of venues around the city. The most recent festival ran from September 7-17, 2017.\n\nThe first Vancouver Fringe Festival was held in 1985. It was centred in Mount Pleasant and held its opening ceremonies in the parking lot of an IGA. The 220 performances were held in seven venues with 4,000 people in attendance—and only 25 volunteers helping out. Anchor venues in Mount Pleasant included the Western Front, Heritage Hall, and later, for the Fringe Bar, the Mount Pleasant Legion.\n\nIn 1995, the festival relocated to Commercial Drive. The Fringe’s first home on the Drive was above the novelty shop where Havana Restaurant is located today. Known as the Production Palace, it was a hub for staff, volunteers, and others. At that time, the festival introduced \"bring your own venue\", in which performers stage performances at places other than those provided by the festival organizers.\n\nBy 2001, the Fringe was primarily centralized on Granville Island. Its opening ceremony that year included a parade around the Island that went against the flow of one way traffic.\n\nThe 2012 festival saw an improvised musical based on the works of William Shakespeare. Increased professional standards have resulted in the Fringe introducing programs such as its \"Dramatic Works Series\".\n\nThe Fringe employs an “everyone is welcome” selection technique—the Mainstage shows are literally drawn out of a hat, giving all artists, from novice to veteran, a chance to participate. Vancouver Fringe Festival Mainstage shows feature some of Vancouver’s best venues including the Revue Stage, Performance Works, and the Waterfront Theatre, all situated on and around Granville Island. The Bring Your Own Venue (BYOV) category allows artists to stage original work in unconventional places. The Fringe strives to break down traditional boundaries and encourage open dialogue between audiences and artists by presenting live un-juried, uncensored theatre in an accessible and informal environment. All artists receive 100% of regular box office revenues generated during the Festival.\n\nTheatre Wire is a new initiative from the Vancouver Fringe Theatre Society, who also produce the Vancouver Fringe Festival.\n\nTheatre Wire was created to facilitate connections between all the smaller theatre companies in Vancouver. Theatre Wire is a one-stop shop for independent theatre happenings.\n\nIn addition to selling tickets and subscriptions to shows, Theatre Wire is also a source for local theatre news, and produces articles about local performing arts history. They are also produced a video series with comedian Sara Bynoe (\"Say Wha?: Reading of Deliciously Rotten Writing\") interviewing Vancouver’s theatre personalities, including theatre critic, Colin Thomas and 2015 Jessie Award winner Cameron Mackenzie (Ray Michal Prize for Most Promising New Director).\n\nFunding for Theatre Wire has been provided by the Department of Canadian Heritage, the Vancouver Foundation, and the British Columbia Arts Council.\n"}
{"id": "46533595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46533595", "title": "Woman's Journal (Philippines)", "text": "Woman's Journal (Philippines)\n\nThe Women's Journal is currently one of the oldest and longest-running women's magazines in the Philippines, having been in publication since 1973. It is published monthly by Philippine Journalists, which also publishes the \"People's Journal\" and \"People's Journal Tonight\". They are also the publishers of the now-defunct \"Times Journal\", a Philippine national daily which existed during the Marcos regime.\n\nThe Women's Journal was originally published every Saturday on a weekly basis, from its inception in 1973 until 2007-08 in order to be at par with the Philippine versions of international women's magazines.\n"}
{"id": "3333765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3333765", "title": "Workers Resistance", "text": "Workers Resistance\n\nWorkers Resistance () is a Trotskyist political party in Ukraine. It is a member of the Committee for a Workers' International (CWI). The party was founded in 1994.\n\nIn February 2000, leading members of Workers' Resistance began contacting various socialist political parties and internationals via the internet. They chose groupings without contacts in Ukraine, and used various invented party names. Posing as these organisations, they began discussions with them and talked about joint work. Most of the organisations were keen to develop links, and responded to requests for money to translate and print documents, purchase computer equipment or maintain an office.\n\nAs the fraud progressed, they undertook some poor quality translations, to satisfy their partner organisations. Some organisations met members of Workers Resistance in person, without suspecting that they were not who they claimed to be. With the apparent proliferation of socialist groups in Ukraine, the fraudsters began inventing polemics between their various front organisations. This complex web of activity, and the small amounts of money actually obtained, has led to suggestions that the fraud may have been intended to discredit certain groups, or may even have simply been run for entertainment value.\n\nSuspicions grew in several organisations as the complex fraud proved difficult to maintain. The Coordination Council of the Workers Movement (a Maoist organisation in Ukraine) attempted to alert the League for the Fourth International to the fraud, but were not believed. The situation was finally exposed in 2003, when a small Group of Proletarian Revolutionaries-Collectivists informed different left-wing activists and groups about the fraud.\n\nIn an attempt to cover their tracks, the fraudsters had produced documents in the names of members of the Coordination Council of the Workers Movement, but people who had met the perpetrators were able to identify them and they soon admitted the fraud.\n\nThe seven individuals involved in the fraud were expelled from the CWI in September 2003 following an investigation by the CWI's International Secretariat which first learned of the allegations against the Ukrainian section earlier in the summer.\n\nOn August 29, 2003, the CWI issued a statement on the affair which said, in part:\n\nThe statement concluded with the decisions to:\n\nSince then, Workers Resistance in Ukraine has been reorganized and there has been an attempt to rebuild the party around its remaining members.\n\nOrganisations which were affected by the fraud (with the name of the purported Ukrainian party in brackets) include:\n\nThe International Bolshevik Tendency lobbied events organised by CWI member groups asking for a refund of the money they had donated, but the CWI did not return the money, as they claimed they did not have it.\n\n"}
