{"id": "159987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159987", "title": "Abraham in Islam", "text": "Abraham in Islam\n\nIbrahim (, ), known as Abraham in the Hebrew Bible, is recognized as a prophet and messenger in Islam of God. Abraham plays a prominent role as an example of faith in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. In Muslim belief, Abraham fulfilled all the commandments and trials wherein God nurtured him throughout his lifetime. As a result of his unwavering faith in God, Ibrahim was promised by God to be a leader to all the nations of the world. The Quran extols Ibrahim as a model, an exemplar, obedient and not an idolater. In this sense, Abraham has been described as representing \"primordial man in universal surrender to the Divine Reality before its fragmentation into religions separated from each other by differences in form\". The Islamic holy day Eid al-Adha is celebrated in memory of the sacrifice of Abraham, and each able bodied Muslim is supposed to perform the pilgrimage to pay homage at the Ka‘bah () in the Hijazi city of Mecca, which was built by Abraham and his son Ishmael as the first house of worship on earth.\n\nMuslims believe that the prophet Abraham became the leader of the righteous in his time, and that it was through him that Adnanite-Arabs, Romans and Israelites came. Abraham, in the belief of Islam, was instrumental in cleansing the world of idolatry at the time. Paganism was cleared out by Abraham in both the Arabian peninsula and Canaan. He spiritually purified both places as well as physically sanctifying the houses of worship. Abraham and Ismā‘īl (, Ishmael) further established the rites of pilgrimage, or \"Ḥajj\" (), which are still followed by Muslims today. Muslims maintain that Abraham further asked God to bless both the lines of his progeny, of Ismail and Isḥāq (, Isaac), and to keep all of his descendants in the protection of God.\n\nMuslims maintain that Abraham's father was Aazar (), which could be derived from the Syriac \"Athar\", who is known in the Hebrew Bible as Terah. Abraham had two children, Isaac and Ishmael, who both later became prophets. Abraham's two wives are believed to have been Sarah and Hājar, the latter of whom was originally Sarah's handmaiden. Abraham's nephew is said to have been the messenger Lut (Lot), who was one of the other people who migrated with Abraham out of their community. Abraham himself is said to have been a descendant of Nuh through his son Shem.\n\nAbraham's personality and character is one of the most in-depth in the whole Quran, and Abraham is specifically mentioned as being a kind and compassionate man. Abraham's father is understood by Muslims to have been a wicked, ignorant and idolatrous man who ignored all of his son's advice. The relationship between Abraham and his father, who in the Quran is named Azar, is central to Abraham's story as Muslims understand it to establish a large part of Abraham's personality. The Quran mentions that Abraham's father threatened to stone his son to death if he did not cease in preaching to the people. Despite this, the Qur'an states that Abraham in his later years prayed to God to forgive the sins of all his descendants and his parents. Muslims have frequently cited Abraham's character as an example of how kind one must be towards people, and especially one's own parents. A similar example of Abraham's compassionate nature is demonstrated when Abraham began to pray for the people of Sodom and Gomorrah after hearing of God's plan through the angel Gabriel for them. Although the angel Gabriel told Abraham that God's plan was the final word, and therefore Abraham's prayers would be of no effect, the Quran nonetheless reinforces Abraham's kind nature through this particular event.\n\nIbrahim was born in a house of idolaters in the ancient city of Ur of the Chaldees, likely the place called 'Ur' in present-day Iraq, in which case, the idolaters would have been practitioners of the hypothesized Ancient Mesopotamian religion. His father Azar was a well-known idol-sculptor that his people worshiped. As a young child, Ibrahim used to watch his father sculpting these idols from stones or wood. When his father was finished with them, Ibrahim would ask his father why they could not move or respond to any request and then would mock them; therefore, his father would always ground him for not following his ancestors's rituals and mocking their idols.\n\nDespite his opposition to idolatry, his father Azar would still send Ibrahim to sell his idols in the marketplace. Once there, Ibraham would call out to passersby, \"Who will buy my idols? They will not help you and they cannot hurt you! Who will buy my idols?\" Then Ibrahim would mock the idols. He would take them to the river, push their faces into the water and command them, \"Drink! Drink!\" Once again, Ibrahim asked his father, \"How can you worship what does not see or hear or do you any good?\" Azar replied, \"Dare you deny the gods of our people? Get out of my sight!\" Ibrahim replied, \"May God forgive you. No more will I live with you and your idols.\" After this, Ibrahim left his father's home for good.\n\nDuring one of the many festivals that would take place in the city, the people would gather in their temple and place offerings of food before their idols. Ur's most prominent temple is the Great Ziggurat, which can be seen today. Ibrahim would ask them, \"What are you worshiping? Do these idols hear when you call them? Can they help you or hurt you?\" The people would reply, \"It is the way of our forefathers.\" Ibrahim declared \"I am sick of your gods! Truly I am their enemy.\" After several years, Ibrahim became a young man. He still could not believe that his people were worshipping the statues. He laughed whenever he saw them entering the temple, lowering their heads, silently offering the statues the best of their food, crying and asking forgiveness from them. He started feeling angry towards his people, who could not realize that these are only stones that could neither benefit nor harm them.\n\nOne night, Ibrahim went up to the mountain, leaned against a rock, and looked up to the sky. He saw a shining star and said to himself, \"Could this be my Lord?\" But when it set he said: \"I don't like those that set.\" The star had disappeared so it could not be God. God is always present. Then he saw the moon rising in splendor and said, \"Could this be my Lord?\" but the moon also set. At daybreak, he saw the sun rising and said, \"Could this be my Lord? This is the biggest and brightest!\" But when the sun also set he said, \"O my people! I am free from all that you join as partners with Allah! I have turned my face towards Allah who created the heavens and the earth and never shall I associate partners with Allah. Our Lord is the creator of the heavens and the earth and everything in between. He has the power to make the stars rise and set.\" After this declaration, Ibrahim then heard Allah calling him, \"O Ibrahim!\" Ibrahim trembled and said, \"Here I am O my Lord!\" Allah replied, \"Submit to Me! Be a Muslim!\" Ibrahim fell to the ground, crying. He said: \"I submit to the Lord of the universe!\" Ibrahim kept prostrating himself until nightfall. He then got up and went back to his home, in peace and full of conviction that Allah has guided him to the truth.\n\nA new life started for Ibrahim. His mission now was to call his people to monotheism. He started with his father, the closest person to him and whom he loved greatly. He said to him in the softest and kindest voice: \"O father! Why do you worship that which doesn't hear, doesn't see, and cannot avail you in anything? O father, I have got knowledge which you have not, so follow me. I will guide you to a straight path.\" His father replied angrily: \"Do you reject my gods, O Ibrahim? If you don't stop I will stone you to death! Get away from me before I punish you!\" Ibrahim replied: \"Peace be on you! I will ask forgiveness of my Lord for you.\"\n\nThe decision to have Ibrahim burned at the stake was affirmed by the temple priests and the king of Babylon, Nimrod. The news spread like fire in the kingdom and people were coming from all places to watch the execution. A huge pit was dug up and a large quantity of wood was piled up. Then the biggest fire people ever witnessed was lit. The flames were so high up in the sky that even the birds could not fly over it for fear of being burnt themselves. Ibrahim's hands and feet were chained, and he was put in a catapult, ready to be thrown in. During this time, Angel Jibril came to him and said: \"O Ibrahim! Is there anything you wish for?\" Ibrahim could have asked to be saved from the fire or to be taken away, but Ibrahim replied, \"Allah is sufficient for me, He is the best disposer of my affairs.\" The catapult was released and Ibrahim was thrown into the fire. Allah then gave an order to the fire, \"O fire! Be coolness and safety for Ibrahim.\" A miracle occurred, the fire obeyed and burned only his chains. Ibrahim came out from it as if he was coming out from a garden, peaceful, his face illuminated and not a trace of smoke on his clothes. People watched in shock and exclaimed: \"Amazing! Ibrahim's God has saved him from the fire!\"\n\nThe Qur'an discusses a certain conversation between an unrighteous ruler and Abraham. Although identification for the unnamed king has been recognized as being least important in the narrative, many historical sources suggest that it was Nimrod, the king who had ordered the building of the Tower of Babel.\n\nAccording to the narrative, Nimrod became extremely arrogant due to his wealth and power, to the point that he made the claim that he possessed the power of creation. Claiming divinity for himself, Nimrod quarreled with Ibrahim, but the Qur'an describes that he only deepened in confusion. According to Romano-Jewish historian Flavius Josephus, Nimrod was a man who set his will against that of God. Nimrod proclaimed himself as a living god and was worshipped as such by his subjects. Nimrod's consort Semiramis was also worshipped as a goddess at his side. (See also Ninus.) Before Abraham was born, a portent in the stars tells Nimrod and his astrologers of the impending birth of Abraham, who would put an end to idolatry. Nimrod therefore orders the killing of all newborn babies. However, Abraham's mother escapes into the fields and gives birth secretly.\n\nFlavius Josephus mentions that Abraham confronts Nimrod and tells him face-to-face to cease his idolatry, whereupon Nimrod orders him burned at the stake. Nimrod has his subjects gather enough wood so as to burn Abraham in the biggest fire the world had ever seen. Yet when the fire is lit and Abraham is thrown into it, Abraham walks out unscathed. In Islam, it is debated whether the decision to have Ibrahim burned at the stake came from Nimrod and the temple priests or whether the people themselves became vigilantes and hatched the plan to have him burned at the stake.\n\nAccording to Muslim commentators, after Ibrahim survived the great fire, notoriety in society grew bigger after this event. Nimrod, who was the King of Babylon felt that his throne was in danger, and that he was losing power because upon witnessing Ibrahim coming out of the fire unharmed, a large part of society started believing in Allah and Ibrahim being a prophet of Allah. Up until this point, Nimrod was pretending that he himself was a God. Nimrod wanted to debate with him and show his people that he, the king is indeed the god and that Ibrahim was a liar. Nimrod asked Ibrahim, \"What can your God do that I cannot?\" Ibrahim replied, \"My Lord is He who gives life and death.\" Nimrod then shouted, \"I give life and death! I can bring a person from the street and have him executed, and I can grant my pardon to a person who was sentenced to death and save his life.\" Ibrahim replied, \"Well, my lord Allah makes the sun rise from the East. Can you make it rise from the West?\" Nimrod was confounded. He was beaten at his own game, on his own territory and in front of his own people. Prophet Ibrahim left him there speechless and went back to his important mission, calling people to worship the one and only God, Allah.\n\nThis event has been noted as particularly important because, in the Muslim perspective, it almost foreshadowed the prophetic careers of future prophets, most significantly the career of Moses. Abraham's quarrel with the king has been interpreted by some to be a precursor to Moses's preaching to Pharaoh. Just as the ruler who argued against Abraham claimed divinity for himself, so did the Pharaoh of the Exodus, who refused to hear the call of Moses and perished in the Red Sea. In this particular incident, scholars have further commented on Abraham's wisdom in employing \"rational, wise and target-oriented\" speech, as opposed to pointless arguments.\n\nAbraham, in the eyes of many Muslims, also symbolized the highest moral values essential to any person. The Qur'an details the account of the angels coming to Abraham to tell him of the birth of Isaac. It says that, as soon as Abraham saw the messengers, he \"hastened to entertain them with a roasted calf.\" This action has been interpreted by all the scholars as exemplary; many scholars have commentated upon this one action, saying that it symbolizes Abraham's exceedingly high moral level and thus is a model for how men should act in a similar situation. This incident has only further heightened the \"compassionate\" character of Abraham in Muslim theology.\n\nIn the mainstream narrative, it is assumed that Abraham's dream of sacrificing his son was a command by God. The verse in reference (i.e. 37:104-105) is in Surah As-Saffat and the quoted ayahs are translated by known Islamic scholar Abul A'la Maududi as \"We cried out O' Ibraheem you have indeed fulfilled your dream. Thus do we award the good do-ers.\"\n\nIt is assumed that Abraham dreamt that God ordered him to sacrifice his son Ishmael, he agreed to follow God's command and perform the sacrifice, however, God intervened and informed him that his sacrifice had been accepted. Unlike the Bible, there is no mention in the Qur'an of an animal (ram) replacing the boy, rather he is replaced with a 'great sacrifice' (\"Zibhin azeem\"). Since the sacrifice of a ram cannot be greater than that of Abraham's son (and a prophet in Islam at that), this replacement seems to point to either the religious institutionalization of sacrifice itself, or to the future self-sacrifices of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and his companions (who were destined to emerge from the progeny of Ishmael) in the cause of their faith. From that day onwards, every Eid al-Adha once a year Muslims around the world slaughter an animal to commemorate Abraham's sacrifice and to remind themselves of self-abnegation in the way of Allah. This is called Qurbani (\"sacrifice\").\n\nHowever, the words of the Qur'an never explicitly state that Abraham's dream was a Divine command. The Quran only states that Abraham had a dream, which he interpreted as a command from God, and Abraham was eventually stopped by God Himself from \"sacrificing\" his son. This is in stark contrast to the Jewish/Christian narratives, and also some non-mainstream Sunni/Shia narratives which assume the biblical narrative is true. According to these views, the problem with this interpretation is that it yields a logical contradiction, as it is clearly stated that no life can be taken without a just cause, and there was no just cause for Abraham to take the life of his son.\n\nThere are non-mainstream expositions of the Qur'an which harmonize the incident of Abraham's sacrifice and make the narrative of these verses consistent with the Quran's own laws, such as the one by Ghulam Ahmed Pervez, who translates the key verses as follows: 'We immediately removed this thought from Abraham’s mind and called out to him, O Abraham. You considered your dream as Allah's command and laid your son for the purpose of slaughtering him! This was not Our command, but merely a dream of yours. Therefore, We have saved you and your son from this. We have done so because We keep those who lead their lives according to Divine guidance safe from such mishaps.' (37: 104-105). As for the term \"sacrifice\", the meaning of this term as it relates to Ishmael in the following verses is explained as: \"As far as the son is concerned, We saved him for a far greater and tremendous sacrifice. (This great sacrifice refers to the fact that instead of keeping his leadership confined to Syria, We wanted him to become the custodian of Our House the Ka'bah, which was located in the far off barren land of Arabia and which had to become the center and gathering place of all those the world over, who believed in the unity of God (internal reference 14:37)).\"\n\nAbraham encountered several miracles of God during his lifetime. The Qur'an records a few main miracles, although different interpretations have been attributed to the passages. Some of the miracles recorded in the Quran are:\nThe first passage has been interpreted both literally, allegorically and otherwise. Although some commentators feel that this passage referred to a physical miracle, where Abraham was physically shown the entire kingdom of Heaven (Jannah), others have felt that it refers to the spiritual understanding of Abraham; these latter scholars maintain that the Chaldeans were skilled in the observance of the stars, but Abraham, who lived amongst them, saw beyond the physical world and into a higher spiritual realm. The second passage has one mainstream interpretation amongst the Qur'anic commentators, that Abraham took four birds and cut them up, placing pieces of each on nearby hills; when he called out to them, each piece joined and four birds flew back to Abraham. This miracle, as told by the Qur'anic passage, was a demonstration by God to show Abraham how God gave life to the dead. As the physical cutting of the birds is not implied in the passage, some commentators have offered alternative interpretations, but all maintain that the miracle was for the same demonstrative purpose to show Abraham the power God has to raise the dead to life. The third passage has also been interpreted both literally and metaphorically, or in some cases both. Commentators state that the 'fire' refers to main aspects. They maintained that, firstly, the fire referred to the physical flame, from which Abraham was saved unharmed. The commentators further stated that, secondly, the fire referred to the 'fire of persecution', from which Abraham was saved, as he left his people after this with his wife Sarah and his nephew Lot.\n\nAbraham is given the title Khalilullah () in Islam. The Quran says:\n\nThis particular title of Abraham is so famous in Muslim culture and tradition that, in the areas in and around Mecca, Abraham is often referred to solely as \"The Friend\". This title of \"Friend of God\" is not exclusive to Islamic theology. Although the other religious traditions do not stress upon it, Abraham is called a \"Friend of God\" in the second Book of Chronicles and the Book of Isaiah in the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament) as well as in the New Testament.\n\nOne of Abraham's most important features in Islamic theology is his role as the constructor of the Kaaba. Although tradition recounts that Adam constructed the original Kaaba, which was demolished by the Great Flood at the time of Noah, Abraham is believed to have rebuilt it in its original form. The Qur'an, in the Muslim perspective, merely confirms or reinforces the laws of pilgrimage. The rites were instituted by Abraham and for all Muslims, as they perform the pilgrimage, the event is a way to return to the perfection of Abraham's faith. Just as Medina is referred to as the \"City of the Prophet [Muhammad]\" or simply the \"City of Muhammad\", Mecca is frequently cited as the \"City of Abraham\", because Abraham's reformation of the monotheistic faith is believed to have taken place in Mecca.\n\nLikewise, Islamic belief links the original sanctuary of Al-Aqsa in the Old City of Jerusalem to Abraham.\n\nThe Qur'an refers to certain Scrolls of Abraham, which have alternatively been translated as the \"Books of Abraham\". All Muslim scholars have generally agreed that no scrolls of Abraham survive, and therefore this is a reference to a lost body of scripture. The Scrolls of Abraham are understood by Muslims to refer to certain revelations Abraham received, which he would have then transmitted to writing. The exact contents of the revelation are not described in the Qur'an.\n\nThe 87th chapter of the Qur'an, Surat Al-Ala, concludes saying the subject matter of the sura has been in the earlier scriptures of Abraham and Moses. It is slightly indicative of what were in the previous scriptures, according to Islam:\nChapter 53 of the Qur'an, sura An-Najm, mentions some more subject matters of the earlier scriptures of Abraham and Moses.\nYet some scholars suggested it to be a reference to Sefer Yetzirah, as Jewish tradition generally ascribed its authorship to Abraham. Other scholars, however, wrote of a certain Testament of Abraham, which they explained was available at the time of Muhammad. Both of these views are disputed. And if those would have existed, according to clear instructions in the Quran and hadith, no verification should take place.\n\nThe Quran contains numerous references to Abraham, his life, prayers and traditions and has a dedicated chapter named Ibrahim. On a relevant note, sura Al-Kahf was revealed as an answer from God to the Jews who inquired of Muhammad about past events. Here God directly instructed Muhammad in sura Al-Kahf, not to consult the Jews for verifying the three stories about which they inquired.\n\nThe reason being God declaring He Himself is relating what needs to be verified in another verse of sura Al-Kahf:\nRegarding consultation with the \"People of the Book\", it is also narrated by Abu Hurairah in Hadith literature:\n\nTherefore, relating to any ascription of the Scrolls of Abraham by the people of the book is not required.\n\nAbraham is also extremely important as a leader of Islam and as a patriarch of the Islamic faith. Muslims recognize Abraham as the ancestor through whom many other prophets and saints (\"Wali\") came, including Moses, Jesus (Isa) and Muhammad. The Quran lists, in the sixth chapter, some of the greatest figures to have through Abraham's progeny:\n\nAbraham's narrative in the Quran indirectly refers to his role as one of the great patriarchs. The Qur'an says that God made Abraham \"an Imam to the Nations.\", Father of Muslims, and his narrative records him praying for his offspring. The Quran further states that Abraham's descendants were given \"the Book and Wisdom,\", and this fact is reinforced in a verse which states that Abraham's family was one of those in which the gift of prophecy was established as a generic trait. The Quran emphasizes upon Abraham's significance as it states that Abraham's family, Noah, Adam and the family of Amram were the four selected by God above all the worlds. As a result of his significance as a patriarch, Abraham is sometimes given the misleading title \"Father of the Prophets\", which contradicts the teachings of the Quran, which establishes that many prophets, such as Noah, lived before Abraham. Of Abraham's immediate sons, the Quran repeatedly establishes the gifts God bestowed upon them. Ishmael, along with Elisha and Dhul-Kifl (possibly Ezekiel), is regarded as being \"of the Company of the Good.\" and one of the men who was given \"favour above the nations.\" In addition, Ishmael is described as being \"true to what he promised, and he was a messenger (and) a prophet.\" Likewise, the Quran says of Isaac that he was \"of the company of the Elect and the Good.\" and was \"a prophet,- one of the Righteous.\" and further describes him as \"of Power and Vision.\"\n\nAbraham is commemorated by all Muslims. As is the case with every prophet and apostle, it is Islamic custom to say \"Peace be upon him\" after saying Abraham's name. Abraham's unique position as the constructor of the Ka‘bah, as well as the establisher of the pilgrimage rites, is indirectly commemorated when Muslims perform the pilgrimage, or Hajj, in Mecca. Muslims sacrifice (Qurban) a domestic animal on Eid al-Adha, which is done in part to remember Abraham's bravery during his trial of the near-sacrifice of his son. Muslims further mention Abraham in their canonical prayer everyday, in which they ask God to bless Muhammad's family as He blessed Abraham's family.\n\nMuslims believe that Ibrahim was buried, along with his wife Sarah, at the Cave of the Patriarchs in Hebron. Known to Muslims as the \"Sanctuary of Abraham\" it is also thought to be the burial site of Isaac, his wife Rebecca and Jacob and his wife Leah.\n\nThere are numerous references to Abraham in the Quran, including, twice, to the Scrolls of Abraham; in the latter passage, it is mentioned that Abraham \"fulfilled his engagements?-\", a reference to all the trials that Abraham had succeeded in. In a whole series of chapters, the Qur'an relates how Abraham preached to his community as a youth and how he specifically told his father, named Azar, to leave idol-worship and come to the worship of God. Some passages of the Quran, meanwhile, deal with the story of how God sent angels to Abraham with the announcement of the punishment to be imposed upon Lot's people in Sodom and Gomorrah. Other verses mention the near-sacrifice of Abraham's son, whose name is not given but is presumed to be Ishmael as the following verses mention the birth of Isaac. The Quran also repeatedly establishes Abraham's role as patriarch and mentions numerous important descendants who came through his lineage, including Isaac, Jacob and Ishmael. In the later chapters of the Quran, Abraham's role becomes yet more prominent. The Quran mentions that Abraham and Ishmael were the reformers who set up the Ka‘bah in Mecca as a center of pilgrimage for monotheism The Quran consistently refers to Islam as \"the Religion of Abraham\" (\"millat Ibrahim\") and Abraham is given a title as \"Hanif\" (\"The Pure\", \"true in Faith\" or \"upright man\"). The Quran also mentions Abraham as one whom God took as a friend (\"Khalil\"), hence Abraham's title in Islam, \"Khalil-Allah\" (\"Friend of God\"). The term is considered by some to be a derivation of the patriarch's title, \"Qal El\" (, \"Voice of God\"). Other instances in the Quran which are described in a concise manner are the rescue of Abraham from the fire into which he was thrown by his people'; his pleading for his father; his quarrel with an unrighteous and powerful king and the miracle of the dead birds.\n\nAll these events and more have been discussed with more details in Muslim tradition, and especially in the \"Stories of the Prophets\" and works of universal Islamic theology. Certain episodes from the life of Abraham have been more heavily detailed in Islamic text, such as the arguments between Abraham and the evil king, Nimrod, the near-sacrifice of his son, and the story of Hagar and Ishmael, which Muslims commemorate when performing pilgrimage in Mecca. An important Islamic religious holiday, Eid al-Adha, commemorates Abraham's willingness to sacrifice his son Ishmael as an act of obedience to God, before God intervened to provide him with a sheep to sacrifice instead. In some cases, some believe these legends in Islamic text may have influenced later Jewish tradition.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3231", "title": "Absolute Infinite", "text": "Absolute Infinite\n\nThe Absolute Infinite (\"symbol\": Ω) is an extension of the idea of infinity proposed by mathematician Georg Cantor.\n\nIt can be thought as a number which is bigger than any conceivable or inconceivable quantity, either finite or transfinite.\n\nCantor linked the Absolute Infinite with God, and believed that it had various mathematical properties, including the reflection principle: every property of the Absolute Infinite is also held by some smaller object.\n\nCantor said:\n\nCantor also mentioned the idea in his letters to Richard Dedekind (text in square brackets not present in original):\n\nThe idea that the collection of all ordinal numbers cannot logically exist seems paradoxical to many. This is related to Cesare Burali-Forti's \"paradox\" which states that there can be no greatest ordinal number. All of these problems can be traced back to the idea that, for every property that can be logically defined, there exists a set of all objects that have that property. However, as in Cantor's argument (above), this idea leads to difficulties.\n\nMore generally, as noted by A. W. Moore, there can be no end to the process of set formation, and thus no such thing as the \"totality of all sets\", or the \"set hierarchy\". Any such totality would itself have to be a set, thus lying somewhere within the hierarchy and thus failing to contain every set.\n\nA standard solution to this problem is found in Zermelo's set theory, which does not allow the unrestricted formation of sets from arbitrary properties. Rather, we may form the set of all objects that have a given property \"and lie in some given set\" (Zermelo's Axiom of Separation). This allows for the formation of sets based on properties, in a limited sense, while (hopefully) preserving the consistency of the theory.\n\nWhile this solves the logical problem, one could argue that the philosophical problem remains. It seems natural that a set of individuals ought to exist, so long as the individuals exist. Indeed, naive set theory might be said to be based on this notion. Although Zermelo's fix allows a class to describe arbitrary (possibly \"large\") entities, these predicates of the meta-language may have no formal existence (i.e., as a set) within the theory. For example, the class of all sets would be a proper class. This is philosophically unsatisfying to some and has motivated additional work in set theory and other methods of formalizing the foundations of mathematics such as New Foundations by Willard Van Orman Quine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "84969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84969", "title": "Acestes", "text": "Acestes\n\nIn Roman mythology, Acestes or Egestes (Greek ) was the son of the Sicilian river-god Crinisus by a Dardanian or Trojan woman named Egesta or Segesta.\n\nAccording to Servius, this woman Egesta or Segesta was sent by her father, Hippotes or Ipsostratus, to Sicily, that she might not be devoured by the monsters, which infested the territory of Troy, and which had been sent into the land, because the Trojans had refused to reward Poseidon and Apollo for having built the walls of their city. When Egesta arrived in Sicily, the river-god Crinisus in the form of a bear or a dog sired with her a son named Acestes, who was afterwards regarded as the hero who had founded the town of Segesta.\n\nA slight variation on the tradition has it that Acestes welcomed Aeneas when he arrived in Sicily. The funeral games of Aeneas' father Anchises were held there. Those of Aeneas' folk who wished to voyage no further were allowed to remain behind with Acestes and together with Acestes' people they founded the city of Acesta, that is Segesta.\n\nThe tradition of Acestes in Dionysius of Halicarnassus, who calls him Aegestus (), is different, for according to him, the grandfather of Aegestus quarreled with Laomedon, who slew him and gave his daughters to some merchants to convey them to a distant land. A noble Trojan however embarked with them, and married one of them in Sicily, where she subsequently gave birth to a son, Aegestus. During the war against Troy Aegestus obtained permission from Priam to return and take part in the contest, and afterwards returned to Sicily, where Aeneas on his arrival was hospitably received by him and Elymus, and built for them the towns of Aegesta and Elyme. The account of Dionysius seems to be nothing but a rationalistic interpretation of the genuine legend.\n\nIn the Aeneid, Acestes participates in a trial of skill in which he shoots his arrow which then bursts into flame as a sign from Jupiter of Acestes' deserved honor.\n"}
{"id": "1385797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1385797", "title": "Alexandros Papadiamantis", "text": "Alexandros Papadiamantis\n\nAlexandros Pepekas Papadiamantis (; 4 March 1851 – 3 January 1911), also spelled Alexandros Papadiamandis, was an influential Greek novelist, short-story writer and poet.\n\nPapadiamantis was born in Greece, on the island of Skiathos, in the western part of the Aegean Sea. The island would figure prominently in his work. His father was a priest. He moved to Athens as a young man to complete his high school studies, and enrolled at the School of Philosophy of the University of Athens, but never completed his studies.This happened because he had economic difficulties, and had to find a job to make a living.\n\nHe returned to his native island in later life, and died there. He supported himself by writing throughout his adult life, anything from journalism and short stories to several serialized novels. From a certain point onwards he had become very popular, and newspapers and magazines vied for his writings, offering him substantial fees. Papadiamantis did not care for money, and would often ask for lower fees if he thought they were unfairly high; furthermore he spent his money carelessly and took no care of his clothing and appearance. He never married, and was known to be a recluse, whose only true cares were observing and writing about the life of the poor, and chanting at church: he was referred to as \"kosmokalogeros\" (κοσμοκαλόγερος, \"a monk in the world\"). He died of pneumonia.\n\nPapadiamantis' longest works were the serialized novels \"The Gypsy Girl\", \"The Emigrant\", and \"The Merchants of Nations\". These were adventures set around the Mediterranean, with rich plots involving captivity, war, pirates, the plague, etc. However, the author is best remembered for his scores of short stories. Written in his own version of the then official language of Greece, \"katharevousa\" (a \"purist\" written language heavily influenced by ancient Greek), Papadiamantis' stories are little gems. They provide lucid and lyrical portraits of country life in Skiathos, or urban life in the poorer neighborhoods of Athens, with frequent flashes of deep psychological insight. The nostalgia for a lost island childhood is palpable in most of them; the stories with an urban setting often deal with alienation. Characters are sketched with a deft hand, and they speak in the authentic \"demotic\" spoken language of the people; island characters lapse into dialect. Papadiamantis' deep Christian faith, complete with the mystical feeling associated with the Orthodox Christian liturgy, suffuses many stories. Most of his work is tinged with melancholy, and resonates with empathy with people's suffering, regardless of whether they are saints or sinners, innocent or conflicted. His only saint, in fact, is a poor shepherd who, having warned the islanders, is slaughtered by Saracen pirates after he refuses to abandon his flock for the safety of the fortified town. This particular story, \"The Poor Saint\", is the closest he comes to a truly religious theme.\n\nAn example of Papadiamantis' deep and even-handed feeling for humanity is his acknowledged masterpiece, the novella \"The Murderess\". It is the story of an old woman in Skiathos, who pities families with many daughters: given their low socioeconomic status, girls could not work before marriage and they could not marry unless they provide a dowry; therefore, they were a burden and a plight to their families. After killing her own newborn granddaughter, gravelly ill with pertussis, she crosses the line from pity to what she believes is useful and appropriate action, the \"mercy killing\" of young girls. She kills three young girls in succession by throwing them into wells and then pretending to be trying to save them in order to justify her presence there. As coincidences keep piling up, she is confronted with a stark fact: her assumption that she was helping was monstrously wrong, and she gradually slips into mad torment. She flees arrest and tries to hide in the wilderness, but drowns in the sea while trying to escape two policemen on her trail; as Papadiamantis puts it, she meets \"death half-way between divine and human justice\". The character of the murderess is depicted with deep empathy and without condemnation. \"As a child, she served her parents. Once married, she was her husband's slave... when she had children, she served them, and when they had children, she became their slave\". Even her name tells the story of women in 19th century rural Greece: her birth name, Hadoula, \"tenderling\", is all but forgotten; she now is the \"Fragkoyannoú\", i.e. the widow of Yannis Fragkos, her whole existence referenced only to the name of her late, good-for-nothing husband.\n\nHis work is seminal in Modern Greek literature: he is for Greek prose what Dionysios Solomos is for poetry. As Odysseas Elytis wrote: \"commemorate Dionysios Solomos, commemorate Alexander Papadiamantis\". It is a body of work, however, that is virtually impossible to translate, as the magic of his language is founded on the Greek diglossia: elaborately crafted, high Katharevousa for the narrative, interspersed with authentic local dialect for the dialogue, and with all dialectical elements used in the narrative formulated in strict Katharevousa, and therefore in forms that had never actually existed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1633", "title": "Antipope", "text": "Antipope\n\nAn antipope () is a person who, in opposition to the one who is generally seen as the legitimately elected Pope, makes a significantly accepted competing claim to be the Pope, the Bishop of Rome and leader of the Catholic Church. At times between the 3rd and mid-15th centuries, antipopes were supported by a fairly significant faction of religious cardinals and secular or anti-religious monarchs and kingdoms. Persons who claim to be pope, but have few followers, such as the modern sedevacantist antipopes, are not classified with the historical antipopes.\n\nHippolytus of Rome (d. 235) is commonly considered to be the earliest antipope, as he headed a separate group within the Church in Rome against Pope Callixtus I. Hippolytus was reconciled to Callixtus's second successor, Pope Pontian, and both he and Pontian are honoured as saints by the Catholic Church with a shared feast day on 13 August. Whether two or more persons have been confused in this account of Hippolytus and whether Hippolytus actually declared himself to be the Bishop of Rome, remains unclear, since no such claim by Hippolytus has been cited in the writings attributed to him.\n\nEusebius quotes from an unnamed earlier writer the story of Natalius, a 3rd-century priest who accepted the bishopric of the Adoptionists, a heretical group in Rome. Natalius soon repented and tearfully begged Pope Zephyrinus to receive him into communion.\n\nNovatian (d. 258), another third-century figure, certainly claimed the See of Rome in opposition to Pope Cornelius, and if Natalius and Hippolytus were excluded because of the uncertainties concerning them, Novatian could then be said to be the first antipope.\n\nThe period in which antipopes were most numerous was during the struggles between the popes and the Holy Roman Emperors of the 11th and 12th centuries. The emperors frequently imposed their own nominees to further their own causes. The popes, likewise, sometimes sponsored rival imperial claimants (anti-kings) in Germany to overcome a particular emperor.\n\nThe Western Schism—which began in 1378, when the French cardinals, claiming that the election of Pope Urban VI was invalid, elected antipope Clement VII as a rival to the Roman Pope—led eventually to two competing lines of antipopes: the Avignon line (Clement VII took up residence in Avignon, France), and the Pisan line. The Pisan line, which began in 1409, was named after the town of Pisa, Italy, where the (Pisan) council had elected antipope Alexander V as a third claimant. To end the schism, in May 1415, the Council of Constance deposed antipope John XXIII of the Pisan line. Pope Gregory XII of the Roman line resigned in July 1415. In 1417, the Council also formally deposed antipope Benedict XIII of Avignon, but he refused to resign. Afterwards, Pope Martin V was elected and was accepted everywhere except in the small and rapidly diminishing area that remained faithful to Benedict XIII. The scandal of the Western Schism created anti-papal sentiment and fed into the Protestant Reformation at the turn of the 16th century.\n\nThe following table gives the names of the antipopes included in the list of popes and antipopes in the \"Annuario Pontificio\", with the addition of the names of Natalius (in spite of doubts about his historicity) and Antipope Clement VIII (whose following was insignificant).\nAn asterisk marks those who were included in the conventional numbering of later Popes who took the same name. More commonly, the antipope is ignored in later papal regnal numbers; for example, there was an Antipope John XXIII, but the new Pope John elected in 1958 was also called John XXIII. For the additional confusion regarding Popes named John, see Pope John (numbering).\n\nThe list of popes and antipopes in the \"Annuario Pontificio\" attaches the following note to the name of Pope Leo VIII (963–965):\n\nAt this point, as again in the mid-11th century, we come across elections in which problems of harmonising historical criteria and those of theology and canon law make it impossible to decide clearly which side possessed the legitimacy whose factual existence guarantees the unbroken lawful succession of the successors of Saint Peter. The uncertainty that in some cases results has made it advisable to abandon the assignation of successive numbers in the list of the popes.\nThus, because of the obscurities about mid-11th-century canon law and the historical facts, the \"Annuario Pontificio\" lists Sylvester III as a pope, without thereby expressing a judgement on his legitimacy. The \"Catholic Encyclopedia\" places him in its \"List of Popes\", but with the annotation: \"Considered by some to be an antipope\". Other sources classify him as an antipope.\n\nThose with asterisks (*) were counted in subsequent Papal numbering.\n\nMany antipopes created cardinals, known as \"quasi-cardinals\", and a few created cardinal-nephews, known as \"quasi-cardinal-nephews\".\nIn modern times various people claim to be pope and, though they do not fit the technical definition of \"antipope\", are sometimes referred to as such. They are usually leaders of sedevacantist groups who view the See of Rome as vacant and elect someone to fill it. They are sometimes referred to as conclavists because of their claim, on the basis of an election by a \"conclave\" of perhaps half a dozen laypeople, as in the case of David Bawden (\"Pope Michael I\"), to have rendered the See no longer vacant. A significant number of these have taken the name \"Peter II\", owing to its special significance. From the point of view of the Catholic Church, they are schismatics, and as such are automatically excommunicated.\n\n\n\nThe Palmarian Catholic Church regards Pope Paul VI, whom they revere as a martyr, and his predecessors as true popes, but hold, on the grounds of claimed apparitions, that the Pope of Rome is excommunicated and that the position of the Holy See has, since 1978, been transferred to the See of El Palmar de Troya.\n\nThe following were elected by allegedly faithful Catholics, none of whom was a cardinal:\n\nAs the Patriarch of Alexandria, Egypt, has historically also held the title of Pope, a person who, in opposition to someone who is generally accepted as a legitimate Pope of Alexandria, claims to hold that position may also be considered an Antipope. In 2006, the defrocked married Coptic lector Max Michel became an Antipope of Alexandria, calling himself Maximos I. His claim to the Alexandrine Papacy was dismissed by both the Coptic Orthodox Pope Shenouda III and Pope Theodore II of the Greek Orthodox Church of Alexandria. The Coptic Pope of Alexandria and the Greek Pope of Alexandria currently view one another, not as Antipopes, but rather as successors to differing lines of apostolic succession that formed as a result of christological disputes in the fifth century.\n\nAnother Coptic (Alexandrian) Antipope is known to have laid claim in the fourth century. His name was Gregory of Cappadocia.\n\nAntipopes have appeared as fictional characters. These may be either in historical fiction, as fictional portraits of well-known historical antipopes or as purely imaginary antipopes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2185217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2185217", "title": "Ayyavazhi and Hinduism", "text": "Ayyavazhi and Hinduism\n\nAyyavazhi and Hinduism are two belief systems in India. Although Ayyavazhi continues to officially exist within Hinduism and is considered by some observers to be a Hindu denomination, members of the religion claim that it is independent. The most notable distinction between Hinduism and Ayyavazhi is their different approaches to the concepts of good, evil and dharma.\n\nHindus view Vedas, Gita, and other texts from the Shastra as canonical scriptures, instead of the Akilam. The Ayyavazhi believe that the Hindu scriptures were once canonical, but now have lost their Substance because of the advent of Akilam. Kaliyan bought the Vedas as a Boon and so all the previous religious books including Agamas and Puranas lost their Substances, leaving Akilattirattu Ammanai as the only book of perfection. Several dubious claims state that the present day Vedas are not accepted by Ayyavazhi as books of Perfection, because there is a quote in Akilam about Venneesan \"Avan pilathaal vedamondruntakki\" (He created a Veda of his own intention). All previous religious texts have lost their Substance in the vision of Ayyavazhi at the very moment Kaliyan came to the world.\n\nThough Ayyavazhi has many differences from popular Hinduism, it has many beliefs and practices in common. As Hinduism is really a tree of many branches, Ayyavazhi is closest to Smartism and its Advaita beliefs in thought.\n\nThe religious practises of Ayyavazhi largely differ from traditional Hinduism. Akilam says that previous practices were not wrong, but that they were distorted because of the abnormal, cruel nature of Kaliyan and his boons, which the Universe had experienced before. Akilattirattu Ammanai says that the whole acts and rules of the Universe had changed by the advent of Kaliyan. Thiru Nadana Ula, a part of Akilam eight discusses this change in detail.\n\nThe Ayyavazhi people use a unique religious mark. The vertical white mark is worn on the forehead in the shape of a flame, starting from the central point between the eyebrows, and rising to the top edge of the forehead. The flame shape represents Aanma Jyothi or Atman. Zealous devotees smear it on the exterior of the upper arms and over the chest. This white mark is unlike the one worn by a Hindu of Vaishnavist tradition, worn on the forehead in the shape of a 'U', or of Saivist tradition who wear it horizontally as three parallel lines. The white powder used for this mark was made from coarse white soil, found at lower layer of the earth, while ash is used in Hinduism.\n\nAt present, those who 'serve' in Pathis or Nizhal Thangals wear this white mark for the people and give a portion of it to their hands. People carry it home as a holy object, and some of them even swallow a little of it believing it to be medicinal.\n\nOne of the significant ritual actions that distinguishes Ayyavazhi male worshipper from others is 'wearing headgear' during worship. Ayya Vaikundar seems to have enjoined his male followers to tie on headgear when they came to worship God, considering it as a crown. Accordingly, the male followers tied on headgear during worship. This is to reveal that every person is a king and every one is to rule the Earth. This philosophy is told symbolically by the practice of wearing the headgear. It was a counteraction to the practice of tying a cloth around the waist, which symbolizes bondage.\n\nIt became a ritual action to be performed before entering the Pathi to worship. Male devotees usually removed their upper garment and tied the headgear before entering the Pathi. To this day this practice is followed.\n\nThe Nizhal Thangals and Pathis have, in their sanctuary, a mirror to reflect the images worshippers. People pay obeisance to their God standing in front of this mirror, facing the Elunetru amidst two oil lamps. Even in the houses of the people of Ayyavazhi, the place earmarked for their daily worship has at least a mirror and a lamp. The mirror's placement symbolizes that God is inside oneself and it is of no use to seek God elsewhere. This practice is different from the placement of murti, or icon in Hindu Temples, in that this is a non-anthropomorphic form of worship. In different denominations of Hinduism, Saivites venerate the linga and Vaishnavites venerate the saligrama in a non-anthropomorphic form of worship.\n\nThe Ayyavazhi mode of worship was new in that milieu. It distinguished itself from the Sanskrit religion and folk religions. Instructions for abandoning temple worship, temple offerings, priestly functions, blood sacrifices and image worship abound in Akilam. Unlike some practices in Hinduism, it says, \"Do not institute Temples, Do not offer puja, blood sacrifices, do not kill animals, do not worship images made of Clay\" etc.\n\nThe Tamil language is considered sacred, rather than Sanskrit, as is holy within mainstream Hinduism. In Akilam there is a quote that Tamil will be the language in Dharma Yukam. Also unlike other Hindu scriptures in Tamil, Akilattirattu and Arul Nool were written using a simple form of language. Extracts from ancient Hindu scriptures are found in it, translated simply, so that common people could understand.\n\nA few beliefs of Ayyavazhi are different from Hinduism.\n\nAyyavazhi believes Vaikundar is the incarnation of Narayana in this Kali Yukam, sent to destroy the evils of Kali yuga. Hindus accept Kalki rather than Vaikundar as the Incarnation who will be sent to destroy such evil. Also, Hindus believe that the spirit of Kali yuga has yet to be destroyed, but Ayyavazhi says that the spirit of Kali Yuga started its decline immediately after the Avatar of Vaikundar arrived. This was due to the torture of a Pantaram (Vaikundar), who was tortured because he had promised to Thirumal that he would not harm any Pantaram.\n\nRegarding Yukams, Ayyavazhi believes in a system of Eight Yukams while Hinduism suggests a system of four Yugas (Yukams).\n\nAyyavazhi believes in a primordial manifestation of evil Kroni similar to Satan in Abrahamic Religions, while Hinduism has no personification of Evil.\n\nThe view on Trimurti (three aspects of Brahman) is similar to Smartism, which like Ayya Vazhi, recognizes that Brahma, Vishnu and Siva are different aspects of the same God. By contrast, for example, in Saivism, Sivan (the Tamil name for Siva) is considered superior while in Vaishnavism Vishnu is considered superior. In Ayyavazhi the three were considered equal in all the previous six Yukams. But only in Kali Yukam are all the powers surrendered to Narayana by Sivan and Nathan because Kaliyan was created by them without discussion with Narayana. Regarding Vaikunda Avatharam, Ayya Vaikundar is superior to the three because the Moolamoorthy or Paramathma, superior to Trimuthi is that who incarnates as Vaikundar, but in Hinduism Vishnu incarnates. However Vishnu was the first to form in this Universe within the three according to Akilam.\n\nAyyavazhi believes in a Dharma Yukam where Vaikundar rules the world with the Santror Makkal. In Hinduism they believe in Satya Yuga which does not mention Vaikundar.\n\nIn Ayyavazhi, Vaikundar performed symbolic marriages by which he unified all the powers of the universe into himself and so all were seen as one, which is similar to the beliefs of Smartism. But in other branches of Hinduism, they acknowledge different powers as superior and may worship different powers in different forms.\n\nAmongst the Ayyavazhi, congregational worship is practiced, while in Hinduism the Priest chants the mantras and performs rituals, and the devotees watch. But in Ayyavazhi the Panivediyalar chants the mantras and the others repeat it.\n\nIn Ayyavazhi Thottu Namam means \"wearing Thirunamam with a personal touch\", which means the Panivedaiyalar will bestow the Thirunamam by touching the forehead of the devotees. But in Hinduism the Priests gives the Prachatham by throwing, in the belief that if he happened to touch the worshipers body it would make him ritually unclean. In olden days this was practiced because the Brahmins kept a distance from the other castes. This \"Thottu Namam\" was an intentional counteraction of this ancient Hindu tradition, put forward by Ayyavazhi.\n\nUnlike the traditional Hindu way of marriage, Ayyavazhi does not have many ritual practices. But it also differs in marriage as a whole. In Ayyavazhi the couple was seated facing the geographic south witnessing the Thuvaraiyam Pathi in the Indian Ocean. In addition to the priest, all the people who witness the marriage chant the mantras, and praise the couple following the priest, while in Hinduism this was done only by the Priest.\n\nIn Ayyavazhi, unlike in Hinduism, the body of the dead is buried. Generally, Hinduism mandates cremation and limits burial to monks and children under five.\n\nThe body is buried in a position that faces the geographic north in a Padmasana position. No boxes such as coffins are used. The body is placed inside and covered by sand or Namam (sacred soil). This practice is done with the belief that the deceased is performing austerity for the unfolding of Dharma Yukam. There was also a belief that the body of a person who was free from birth will not decay, and will be preserved as it is. Then as the Dharma Yukam unfolds, Vaikundar will blow a Conch shell and these people will rise from the grave. This scenario resembles the Last Judgment in the Abrahamic religions.\n\nThe practice of burial is strikingly similar to funeral practices, in Lingayatism, a reform movement in Karnataka, like Ayyavazhi, which was critical of the caste system. Unlike Ayyavazhi, Lingyatism focuses on Shiva as the supreme God.\n\nLike Hinduism the male worshippers of Ayyavazhi do not wear any upper garments during worship. Footwear is prohibited in worship centers. Also in Ayyavazhi, the female worshippers do not go to worship centers during the period of Menses, like other Hindus.\n\nThe practice of circumambulation is quite commonly seen in Ayyavazhi as in Hinduism. In Ayyavazhi the devotees use to take a bath and circumambulate the outer Pathi and then the inner Pathi and then the sanctum sanatorium.\n\nSaffron is considered as sacred in Ayyavazhi as in its father religion, Hinduism. All the Panividaiyalars (those who perform Panividai) in Pathis and Nizhal Thangals dress in a saffron dothi and saffron headgear which are collectively known as Kavi Vasthiram. This is also the colour of the flag that is to be hoisted in Pathis, as told as Chandiravarnam, and is the colour of the Ayyavazhi flags hoisted over their temples.\n\nLike Hinduism, and particularly Saivism Ayyavazhi consider Rudraksha to be sacred.\n\nLike Hinduism, Ayyavazhi stress Theertham. But according to Ayyavazhi, Muttirikkinaru and Muttappathi were considered most sacred.\n\nAyyavazhi like the Advaita tradition within Hinduism accepts the Ultimate Oneness, which is akin to the concept of Brahman. It says that the universe formed from the Ekam. Thiruvasakam - 2 describes the formation of this present Universe. Like Advaita, it believes that Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva are different aspects of the same God.\n\nJust as Mahaprabhu Caitanya was thought of as an incarnation of Vishnu (and more specifically of Krishna) in Gaudiya Vaishnavism so too is Ayya Vaikundar thought to be an incarnation of Vishnu. It is believed that God incarnates Himself to educate his children on obtaining union with Him.\n\nAyyavazhi, like Hinduism, believes in reincarnation. It states that all lives are continually reborn until they reach Dharma Yukam, the state of Moksha.\n\nAyyavazhi disciples believe in the law of karma and that practicing good karma will grant them Moksha. The practice of good karma leads the devotee to God.\n\nMoksha is the goal of Ayyavazhi. The Ayyavazhi disciple believes like other Hindus that this too is a union with God in which the soul achieves perfect Shanti (\"peace\") and Swarga (\"heaven.\")\n\nAhimsa is Sanskrit for \"non-violence\" and the Ayyavazhi accept this principle.\n\nThe Ayyavazhi believe in the vegetarian principle, which is an important aspect of Ahimsa. Ayya Vaikundar is considered an incarnation of Vishnu and in Vaishnavism, meat-eating is forbidden.\n\nThis principle (known in Sanskrit as Sankirtana Yajna) is an essential sacrifice especially for this age. It is believed that chanting the name of the Lord is an auspicious way to worship.\n\nIn Hinduism it is believed that the spirit of God is present within the heart of every human. The Ayyavazhi too believe that God is present within humans.\n\nIn the Ayyavazhi tradition, it is believed that in the final judgement, the demon will be sentenced to hell while Vaikundar and Santror will rule the world. In Hinduism also it is believed that God Vishnu will incarnate Himself to destroy this age of hypocrisy.\n\nAlthough the Ayyvazhi prefer local language rather than Sanskrit, devotees name their children in Sanskrit (e.g. Vaikunar, Krishna, Narayan.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29447727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29447727", "title": "Balaji Temple, Ketkawla", "text": "Balaji Temple, Ketkawla\n\nBalaji Temple of Ketkawle, is copy of the real Tirumala Venkateswara Temple located 60 km from Pune, Maharashtra. It is on Pune-Bangalore highway.\n\n"}
{"id": "78926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78926", "title": "Britomartis", "text": "Britomartis\n\nBritomartis () was a Greek goddess of mountains and hunting, who was primarily worshipped on the island of Crete. She was sometimes believed to be an oread, or a mountain nymph, but she was often conflated or syncretized with Artemis and Aphaea, the \"invisible\" patroness of Aegina.\n\nShe is also known as \"Diktynna\" (Δίκτυννα; derived by Hellenistic writers as from δίκτυα [\"diktya\"], \"hunting nets\").\n\nAccording to Solinus, the name 'Britomartis' is from a Cretan dialect; he also says that her name means \"virgo dulcis\", or \"sweet virgin\". Solinus also identifies her explicitly as the Cretan Artemis. Hesychius of Alexandria also equates the Cretan word βριτύ (\"brite\") with Greek γλυκύ (\"glyke\") 'sweet'. Other scholars have argued that \"Britomartis\" (\"sweet maid\") is an epithet that does not reveal the goddess's name, nor her character, instead arguing that it may be an apotropaic euphemism.\n\nThe goddess was frequently portrayed on Cretan coinage, either as herself or as Diktynna, the goddess of Mount Dikte, Zeus' birthplace. As Diktynna, she was depicted as a winged goddess with a human face, standing atop her ancient mountain, grasping an animal in each hand, in the guise of \"Potnia Theron\", the mistress of animals.\n\nBy Hellenistic and Roman times, Britomartis was given a genealogical setting that fitted her into a Classical context:\n\nBritomartis, who is also called Diktynna, the myths relate, was born at Kaino in Crete of Zeus and Karme, the daughter of Euboulos who was the son of Demeter; she invented the nets [\"diktya\"] which are used in hunting.\n\nThe third hymn to Artemis by Callimachus tells how she was pursued by Minos and, as Diktynna, \"Lady of the Nets\", threw herself into fishermen's nets to escape him; thus rescued, she was taken by the fishermen to mainland Greece. She was also known as Dicte. This myth element \"explains\" the spread of the Cretan goddess's cult to Greece. Didorus Siculus found it less than credible:\n\nBut those men who tell the tale that she has been named Diktynna because she fled into some fishermen’s nets when she was pursued by Minos, who would have ravished her, have missed the truth; for it is not a probable story that the goddess should ever have got into so helpless a state that she would have required the aid that men can give, being as she is the daughter of the greatest one of the gods.\n\nStrabo notes she was venerated as Diktynna only in western Crete, in the region of Cydonia, where there was a \"Diktynnaion\", or temple of Diktynna. \"Oupis [Artemis], O queen, fairfaced Bringer of Light, thee too the Kretans name after that Nymph,\" Callimachus says. \"She passed her time in the company of Artemis, this being the reason why some men think Diktynna and Artemis are one and the same goddess,\" Diodorus Siculus (5.76.3) suggested. \n\nIn the second century CE, the Greek writer Pausanias describes Britomartis saying, \"She was made a goddess by Artemis, and she is worshipped, not only by the Cretans, but also by the Aiginetans.\"\n\nA \"xoanon\", a wooden cult statue, of Britomartis, allegedly carved by Daedalus, sat in the temple of Olous. In Chersonesos and Olous, she was often portrayed on coins, showing that she was worshipped in those cities; the festival Britomarpeia was held in her honor. As Diktynna, her face was pictured on Cretan coins of Kydonia, Polyrrhenia and Phalasarna as the nurse of Zeus. On Crete, she was connected with the mountain where Zeus was said to have been born—Mount Dikte. On some early Britomartis coins of Kydonia, the coin was manufactured as an overstrike of specimens manufactured by Aegina.\nTemples dedicated to her existed in Athens, Sparta, Massalia and between Ambrosus and Anticyra in Phocis, where, as Artemis Diktynna, her cult object was a black stone worked by Aeginetans, but she was primarily a goddess of local importance in Western Crete, such as Lysos and West of Kydonia. Her temples were said to be guarded by vicious dogs stronger than bears. A temple dedicated to the goddess was erected in ancient times on Mount Tityros near Cydonia. Another name, Pipituna, found on Linear B may be another form of Diktynna.\n\nBritomartis was worshipped as Aphaea primarily on the island of Aegina, where the temple \"Athena Aphaea\" stood. A temple dedicated to her also existed at the Aspropyrgos on the outskirts of Athens.\n\nBritomart figures in Edmund Spenser's knightly epic \"The Faerie Queene\", where she is an allegorical figure of the virgin Knight of Chastity, representing English virtue—in particular, English military power—through a folk etymology that associated \"Brit-,\" as in \"Briton\", with \"Martis\", here thought of as \"of Mars\", the Roman war god. In Spenser's allegory, Britomart connotes the Virgin Queen, Elizabeth I of England.\n\nIn his retelling of the King Arthur legends, \"Arthur Rex\", author Thomas Berger suggests that Queen Guinevere may have become a powerful female knight known as Britomart after the death of the King.\n\n"}
{"id": "54984993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54984993", "title": "Buddhism in Morocco", "text": "Buddhism in Morocco\n\nBuddhism in Morocco is a small religious minority in the kingdom of Morocco. Estimates for the number of Buddhists in Morocco range from a few dozen, to under 0.01% of the population (or about 3000 people). The Pew Forum estimates that about 0.1% of Morocco's population is Buddhist.\n\nThe vast majority of the Buddhists in Morocco are foreigners, especially from Vietnam, Indonesia and Cambodia. There are Buddhist holy shrines in Rabat and Casablanca.\n"}
{"id": "11164993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11164993", "title": "Chuang Yen Monastery", "text": "Chuang Yen Monastery\n\nChuang Yen Monastery () is a Buddhist temple situated on 225 acres in Kent, Putnam County, New York, in the United States. The temple is home to the largest indoor statue of a Buddha (Vairocana) in the Western Hemisphere. The name \"Chuang Yen\" means \"Majestically Adorned\".\n\nIn November 1975, the Buddhist Association of the United States (BAUS) leased 125 acres of land in Putnam County from Dr. C.T. Shen (one of the co-founders of BAUS and late Vice President of BAUS) for the development of Chuang Yen Monastery. According to the temple, the lease was for ninety-nine years with an annual payment of one dollar. As suggested by the local government, Dr. Shen donated the land to BAUS in 1989.\n\nMuch of the temple buildings are built in the architectural style of China’s Tang Dynasty, and was designed by architect Edward A Valeri RA. On May 23, 1981, a groundbreaking ceremony was held for the first building, the Kuan Yin Hall. The other buildings that make up the monastery were added over the years: the Dining Hall, the Thousand Lotus Memorial Terrace, the Tai Hsu Hall, the Yin Kuang Hall, the Woo Ju Memorial Library and the Great Buddha Hall. The Great Buddha Hall's opening was presided over by the 14th Dalai Lama.\n\nThe first President of BAUS, Venerable Lok To, laid the foundation of BAUS. Venerables Ming Chi and Xian Ming, together with Dr. Shen, took on the challenge and assumed the responsibility of building and serving Chuang Yen Monastery.\n\n\nWorld Peace: Ever since the inception of Chuang Yen Monastery, visitors have been a melting pot of religious faiths. Weekends, especially Sundays, Buddhists and non-Buddhists alike visit CYM for programs including sitting and walking meditation, lectures, book discussion programs, and they enjoy a vegetarian lunch at the Dining Hall. Interfaith Prayer has been held annually on New Year’s Day to promote mutual understanding among all the religions.\n\nCommunity Service: Every year, events such as Chinese New Year Blessing Ceremony, Garden Party on Mother’s Day, Ritual for the Deceased, and Summer Camp have been put together. Donations are made to senior centers, fire departments, and food banks when possible. Volunteers take the initiative and coordinate events for public awareness when disasters occur around the world.\n\nFree Book Distribution is a program where books are free for visitors and are sent to prisoners if requested. This is due to the contributions of many Buddhist masters, authors, and donators all around the world.\n\nSchool Program: To support educational needs in the tri-state areas and to welcome ethnic groups, volunteers with different ethnic backgrounds make a dedication to the program. Each year, CYM serves thousands of students who visit the grounds, and also accepts invitations for talks in schools, prisons, and community centers.\n\nRetreat: According to Buddhism, world peace starts from inner peace. The principle of Buddhism teaches: \"Do no evil, cultivate good. Purify one’s mind.\" This is the teaching of Buddhism. CYM offers retreats throughout the year for people to spend time to develop inner peace. CYM invites Buddhist masters from other states or countries to conduct retreats.\n\n"}
{"id": "1723052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1723052", "title": "Confarreatio", "text": "Confarreatio\n\nIn ancient Rome, confarreatio was a traditional patrician form of marriage. The ceremony involved the bride and bridegroom sharing a cake of spelt, in Latin \"far\" or \"panis farreus\", hence the rite's name. The Flamen Dialis and Pontifex Maximus presided over the wedding, and ten witnesses had to be present. The woman passed directly from the hand \"(manus)\" of her father or head of household (the \"paterfamilias\") to that of her new husband.\n\nHaving parents who were married by \"confarreatio\" was a prerequisite for becoming a Vestal or the Flamen Dialis. \"Confarreatio\" seems to have been limited to those whose parents were also married by \"confarreatio\", but later, perhaps with the rise of plebeian \"nobiles\", this requirement must have been relaxed. Scipio Africanus presumably married his wife Aemilia Tertia by \"confarreatio\", because their elder son was Flamen Dialis; yet Scipio's mother Pomponia was a plebeian. \n\nDivorce for \"confarreatio\" marriages, \"diffarreatio\", was a difficult process and therefore rare. Not much is known about how \"diffarreatio\" was carried out except that there was a special type of sacrifice that caused the dissolution of the relationship between the man and woman. She would then pass back into the \"manus\" of her \"paterfamilias\". \n\nOriginally, the \"confarreatio\" was indissoluble, and this remained true of the marriage of the Flamen Dialis. The other two major flamines, the Flamen Martialis and the Flamen Quirinalis, were also required to marry by \"confarreatio.\" The three major flamines were also required to marry virgins; further, if the wife of the Flamen Dialis died, he was immediately required to resign. It is not clear if this was true of the other priests.\n\n"}
{"id": "395408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395408", "title": "Covenant of Unitarian Universalist Pagans", "text": "Covenant of Unitarian Universalist Pagans\n\nThe Covenant of Unitarian Universalist Pagans (CUUPS) is an association of Unitarian Universalists who identify with the precepts of classical or contemporary Paganism: celebrating the sacred circle of life and guiding people to live in harmony with the rhythms of nature. CUUPS members foster the development of \"liturgical materials based on earth- and nature-centered religious and spiritual perspectives\" as well as encourage \"greater use of music, dance, visual arts, poetry, story, and creative ritual in Unitarian Universalist worship and celebration.\"\n\nCUUPS was formed at the 1985 UUA General Assembly and incorporated as a not for profit organization in 1997. It was an Independent Affiliate of the Unitarian Universalist Association until 2007, then a Related Organization, and as of 2015 a Covenanting Community of the UUA. There are now nearly 70 chapters of CUUPS.\n\nCUUPS works to enrich and strengthen the religious pluralism of Unitarian Universalism; promote the study and practice of contemporary Pagan, Earth-, and nature-centered spirituality; enable networking among pagan-identified Unitarian Universalists; develop educational/liturgical materials on Pagan spirituality for Unitarian Universalist congregations; encourage theological inquiry into the contemporary Pagan resurgence; promote inter-religious dialog; and work for the healing of the Earth. While not directly related to Wicca or other explicit Pagan paths, it does embrace them within its ministerial tradition. Members and friends receive the online CUUPS Bulletin, which reports continental and local chapter activities and explores contemporary Paganism.\n\nThe organization maintains ties to the UK-based Unitarian Earth Spirit Network, which serves a similar role of representing contemporary Pagan spirituality in the British Unitarian community.\n"}
{"id": "52350849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52350849", "title": "Dafydd Emlyn", "text": "Dafydd Emlyn\n\nDafydd Emlyn was a 17th century Welsh poet and cleric. It is thought he may have been from the Teifi Valley. A number of his works are known to survive, some of which are written in his own hand.\n"}
{"id": "51770338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51770338", "title": "Dafydd ab Ieuan ab Iorwerth", "text": "Dafydd ab Ieuan ab Iorwerth\n\nDafydd ab Ieuan ab Iorwerth (died in or before 1503) was Bishop of St Asaph from 1500 to 1503.\n\nHis family was from the Trefor area of Gwynedd, and descendants of Tudur ap Rhys Sais.\n\nPrior to his appointment he was Abbot of Valle Crucis. He provided hospitality to, and was liberal patron of the bards, as acknowledged by Gutun Owain and Guto'r Glyn.\n"}
{"id": "4056451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4056451", "title": "General Roman Calendar of 1954", "text": "General Roman Calendar of 1954\n\nThis article lists the feast days of the General Roman Calendar as they were at the end of 1954. It is essentially the same calendar established by Pope Pius X (1903–1914) following his liturgical reforms, but it also incorporates changes that were made by Pope Pius XI (1922–1939), such as the institution of the Feast of Christ the King, and the changes made by Pope Pius XII (1939–1958) prior to 1955, chief among them the imposition of the Feast of the Immaculate Heart of Mary upon the universal Church (August 22, on the existing octave day of the Assumption) in 1944, the inscription of Pius X into the General Calendar (September 3) following his 1954 canonization, and the institution of the Feast of the Queenship of Mary (May 31) in October 1954.\n\nThe changes that the latter Pope made in 1955 are indicated in General Roman Calendar of Pope Pius XII. They included: a revision of the Church's traditional ranking of liturgical days; the institution of the feast of St. Joseph the Worker on May 1 as a Double of the I Class, requiring the transfer of Ss. Philip and James to May 11; the suppression of the Solemnity of Saint Joseph, which for just over a century had been celebrated on the second Wednesday after the Octave of Easter. A total of fifteen Octaves—all those except Easter, Pentecost, and Christmas—were also suppressed in the reform of 1955, as were most vigils (specifically, the vigils of all apostles save for that of Ss. Peter and Paul, and the vigils of the Immaculate Conception, Epiphany, and All Saints).\n\nFive years later, Pope John XXIII made a further revision with the \"motu proprio\" \"Rubricarum instructum\" of July 23, 1960. This revision, the General Roman Calendar of 1960, was incorporated in the Roman Missal of 1962, which was issued as implementation of this \"motu proprio\" The 1960 calendar is thus the calendar approved by Pope Benedict XVI with his July 7, 2007 document \"Summorum Pontificum\" for use as an extraordinary form of the Roman Rite.\n\nThe General Roman Calendar was again revised in 1969, in connection with the revision of the Roman Missal, and later. For its current state, see General Roman Calendar.\n\nFor most of the celebrations here listed, the Mass is found in the Roman Missal of the time in the section called the \"Proper of the Saints\", but for those occurring from 24 December to 13 January it is found in the \"Proper of the Season\", as these days do not move with respect to the seasons of the Church year. The Offices of these feasts are likewise arranged in the Breviary.\n\nWhile the General Calendar of 1954 is generally not authorized for liturgical use by traditional groups in communion with the Holy See, some sedevacantists continue to use it, as their members consider it to be the last calendar untainted by the alleged \"modernist\" revisions that began in 1955. Indults have already been granted, however, to certain communities in full communion with Rome, such as some apostolates of the Institute of Christ the King Sovereign Priest.\n\nThe ranking of feast days that had grown from an original division between doubles and simples and that by the time of the Tridentine Calendar included semidoubles, with Pope Clement VIII adding in 1604 to the distinction between first and second class doubles the new rank of greater double, was still in use in the 1954 calendar, and would continue until the following year, 1955, when Pope Pius XII abolished the rank of semidouble.\n\nThe rank of feast days determines which Mass is said when two feast days coincide (or \"occur\") on the one day, as well as when a feast day falls on Sundays or certain other privileged days. Feast days were classified as Simple, Semidouble, or Double, with feast days of the Double Rite further divided into \"Double of the I Class\", \"Double of the II Class\", \"Greater Double\" or \"Major Double\", and \"Double\", in order of descending rank. On ferias and many feast days of simple rank, the celebrant was permitted to substitute a Mass of his own choice such as a votive Mass, or a Mass for the Dead.\n\nWhat the original meaning of the term \"double\" may have been is not entirely certain. Some think that the greater festivals were thus styled because the antiphons before and after the psalms were \"doubled\", i.e. twice repeated entire on these days. Others, with more probability, point to the fact that before the ninth century in certain places, for example at Rome, it was customary on the greater feast days to recite two sets of Matins, the one of the feria or week-day, the other of the festival. Hence such days were known as \"doubles\".\n\nThe Catholic Encyclopedia of the early years of the twentieth century shows the incremental crowding of the calendar (which had increased further by 1954) in the following table based on the official revisions of the Roman Breviary in 1568, 1602, 1631, 1882 and on the situation in 1907.\n\nIn 1907, when, in accordance with the rules in force since the time of Pope Pius V, feast days of any form of double, if impeded by \"occurrence\" (falling on the same day) with a feast day of higher class, were transferred to another day, this classification of feast days was of great practical importance for deciding which feast day to celebrate on any particular day. Pope Pius X simplified matters considerably in his 1911 reform of the Roman Breviary. In the case of occurrence the lower-ranking feast day could become a commemoration within the celebration of the higher-ranking one. Further retouches were made by Pope Pius XII in 1955, Pope John XXIII in 1960, and Pope Paul VI in 1969.\n\nSundays were divided into greater and lesser Sundays, with the greater Sundays being further divided into two classes. The Greater Sundays of the I class were the I Sunday of Advent, the four Sundays of Lent, Passion Sunday, Palm Sunday, Easter Sunday, Low Sunday, and Pentecost. No feast day whatsoever could be celebrated on these days, although they admitted commemorations except on Easter and Pentecost. Greater Sundays of the II class permitted the celebration of Doubles of the I Class only, and consisted of the other three Sundays in Advent and the three pre-Lenten Sundays. All other Sundays (II to V after Easter and the Sundays after Epiphany and Pentecost, except for those that might occur during an Octave, which followed the rules for the Octave), were lesser Sundays or Sundays \"per annum\" (\"through the year\"), and only the celebration of Doubles of the I or II Class, or a feast of the Lord, took precedence over them. The Sunday within the Octave of the Nativity was a special case, due to the fixed date of Christmas and the high rank of the feast days following it. If December 29, 30, or 31 were a Sunday, the Mass assigned to it was celebrated on that day; otherwise, it was celebrated on December 30.\n\nBefore the reform of Pope St Pius X in 1911, ordinary Doubles took precedence over most of the Semidouble Sundays, resulting in many of the Sunday Masses rarely being said. While retaining the Semidouble rite for Sundays, the reform permitted only the most important feast days, Doubles of the I or II class, to be celebrated on Sunday. When a feast of the rank of double of the I or II class fell on a Sunday, the Mass would be that of the feast, with a commemoration of the occurring Sunday; the Gospel of the omitted Sunday Mass would be read at the end of Mass instead of the usual Gospel \"In principio erat Verbum\" of St. John. When a feast of a rank lower than that occurred with a Sunday, the feast would be commemorated in the Sunday Mass by including a commemoration of the feast, and its Gospel would be read at the end of Mass, provided it was a \"proper\" Gospel, i.e. one not taken from the Common.\n\nFollowing the reform of Pope Pius X, only three feasts were assigned to a Sunday: the feast days of the Holy Name, the Holy Family, and the Most Holy Trinity. A fourth, Christ the King, was added in 1925.\n\nFerias also were classified into three categories:\n\n\nEmber Days are four separate sets of three days within the same week — specifically, the Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday — roughly equidistant in the circuit of the year, that were formerly set aside for fasting and prayer. These days set apart for special prayer and fasting were considered especially suitable for the ordination of clergy. The Ember Days are known in Latin as \"quatuor tempora\" (the \"four seasons\"), or \"jejunia quatuor temporum\" (\"fasts of the four seasons\"). They occur in the weeks between the third and fourth Sundays of Advent, between the first and second Sundays of Lent, between Pentecost and Trinity Sunday, and beginning the first Wednesday after the Exaltation of the Holy Cross (September 14), which is between the liturgical third and fourth Sundays of September.\n\nRogation Days are, in the calendar of the Western Church, four days traditionally set apart for solemn processions to invoke God's mercy. They are April 25, the Major Rogation (or Greater Litanies), coinciding with St. Mark's Day (but transferred to the following Tuesday if they fell on Easter); and the three days preceding Ascension Thursday, the Minor Rogations (or Lesser Litanies). These are indicated below in the main body of the calendar and in the Movable Feasts section.\n\nIn the Tridentine Calendar the vigils of Christmas, the Epiphany, and Pentecost were called \"major vigils\"; the rest were \"minor\" or \"common\" vigils In early times, every feast day had a vigil, but the increase in the number of feast days and abuses connected with the evening and night service of which the vigils originally consisted, led to their diminishment. Nevertheless, the Roman Rite kept many more vigils than other Latin liturgical rites such as the Ambrosian Rite and the Mozarabic Rite. If a Vigil fell on a Sunday, it was transferred to the previous Saturday, although the Vigil of Christmas took precedence over the IV Sunday of Advent.\n\nPrior to the suppression of some vigils by Pope Pius XII in 1955, there were three classes of Vigils. The Vigils of Christmas and Pentecost were of the I class, and took precedence over any feast day. The Vigil of Epiphany was of the II class, and permitted only Doubles of the I or II classes, or any feast of the Lord. All other vigils were \"common\" and took precedence only over ferias and Simple feast days, but were anticipated on Saturday if they fell on Sunday. Most feasts of the Apostles had Vigils; the exceptions being those that fell in Eastertide, when Vigils were not permitted. The Vigil of St. Matthias was unique, in that it was normally commemorated on February 23, the feast day of St. Peter Damian, but in leap year, was kept on February 24, the traditional leap day of the Roman calendar.\n\nThe Tridentine Calendar had many octaves, without any indication in the calendar itself of distinction of rank between them, apart from the fact that the Octave Day (the final day of the octave) was ranked higher than the days within the octave. Several octaves overlapped, so that, for instance, on 29 December the prayer of the saint of the day, Saint Thomas Becket, was followed by the prayers of Christmas, of Saint Stephen, of Saint John the Evangelist and of the Holy Innocents. The situation remained such until the reform of Pope Pius X.\n\nTo cut down on the monotony of repeating the same prayers in Mass and Office every day for eight days, Pope Pius X classified the octaves as \"privileged\", \"common\" or \"simple\"\n\nThe privileged octaves were of three \"ranks\". The first rank belonged to the octaves of Easter and Pentecost (no feast day could be celebrated in these octaves or even, until Vespers on Tuesday, be commemorated), the second to those of Epiphany and Corpus Christi (the Octave Day ranked as a Greater Double, the days within the octave as Semidoubles, giving way only to Doubles of the I Class, and on the Octave day itself only to a Double of the I class that was celebrated in the entire Church), the third rank to those of Christmas, the Ascension, and the Sacred Heart (these gave way to any feast day above the level of Simple).\n\nThe common octaves were those of the Immaculate Conception, the Assumption, the Nativity of Saint John the Baptist, the Solemnity of Saint Joseph, Saints Peter and Paul, and All Saints, as well as, locally, the principal patron saint of a church, cathedral, order, town, diocese, province, or nation. These too gave way to any feast day above the level of Simple; the difference between these and the third privileged rank was that ferial psalms were said during common octaves, while the psalms from the feast day were used during privileged octaves.\n\nThe simple octaves were those of Saint Stephen, Saint John the Evangelist, the Holy Innocents, Saint Lawrence, the Nativity of Mary and, locally, secondary patrons. These were all Doubles of the II class, their Octave day was a Simple and, in contrast to the situation before Pope Pius X, their Mass was not repeated nor a Commemoration made, except on the Octave day, as simple Octaves had no days within the Octave.\n\nIn Pope Pius XII's reform, only the octaves of Christmas, Easter and Pentecost were kept. The days within the Easter and Pentecost octaves were raised to double rite, had precedence over all feast days, and did not admit commemorations.\n\n\nSunday between the Circumcision and Epiphany [or January 2, when no such Sunday occurs]: The most holy Name of Jesus, Double of the II Class.<br>\nSunday within the Octave of the Epiphany: The Most Holy Family of Jesus, Mary, Joseph, Greater Double.\n\n\nIn leap year the month of February is of 29 days, and the Feast of St. Matthias is celebrated on the 25th day and the Feast of St. Gabriel of Our Lady of Sorrows on the 28th day of February, and twice is said Sexto Kalendas, that is on the 24th day and 25th day; and the dominical letter, which was taken up in the month of January, is changed to the preceding; that, if in January, the dominical letter was A, it is changed to the preceding, which is g, etc.; and the letter f is kept twice, on the 24th and 25th.\n\n\nFriday after Passion Sunday: Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Greater Double, Com. of the Feria.\n\n\nWednesday within the second week after the Octave of Easter: Solemnity of St. Joseph, Spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Confessor, and Patron of the Universal Church, Double of the I Class with a common Octave.<br>\nWednesday within the third week after the Octave of Easter: Octave of St. Joseph, Greater Double.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLast Sunday in October: The Feast of our Lord Jesus Christ the King, Double of the I Class, Com. of the Sunday.\n\n\n\nAlthough not listed on the general Calendar, a commemoration of St. Anastasia Martyr is made at the second Mass on Christmas Day.\n\nThe moveable feasts are those connected with the Easter cycle, and Easter is the date relative to which their position is ultimately determined. The date of Easter is determined relative to the lunar calendar as used by the Hebrews. The rule has since the Middle Ages been phrased as \"Easter is observed on the Sunday after the first full moon on or after the day of the vernal equinox.\" However, this does not reflect the actual ecclesiastical rules precisely. One reason for this is that the full moon involved (called the Paschal full moon) is not an astronomical full moon, but an ecclesiastical moon. Another difference is that the astronomical vernal equinox is a natural astronomical phenomenon, which can fall on 20 or 21 March, while the ecclesiastical vernal equinox is a fixed March 21 (on the Gregorian Calendar). Easter is determined from tables which determine Easter based on the ecclesiastical rules described above, which do not always coincide with the astronomical full moon. The moveable feasts are given below:\n\nSeptuagesima Sunday (9th Sunday before Easter)<br>\nSexagesima Sunday (8th Sunday before Easter)<br>\nQuinquagesima Sunday (7th Sunday before Easter)<br>\nAsh Wednesday (Wednesday after Quinquagesima Sunday)<br>\nPassion Sunday (Sunday 2 weeks before Easter)<br>\nFeast of the Seven Sorrows of the Virgin Mary (Friday after 2nd Sunday before Easter)<br>\nPalm Sunday (Sunday before Easter)<br>\nHoly Thursday (Thursday before Easter)<br>\nGood Friday (Friday before Easter)<br>\nHoly Saturday (Saturday before Easter)<br>\nEaster Sunday, the Solemnity of Solemnities, the Resurrection of Our Lord Jesus Christ<br>\nLow Sunday (Sunday after Easter)<br>\nThe Solemnity of St. Joseph, spouse of the Virgin Mary, confessor, and patron of the Universal Church (Wednesday after the 2nd Sunday after Easter)<br>\nThe Octave of St. Joseph, spouse of the Virgin Mary, confessor and patron of the Universal Church (Wednesday after the 3rd Sunday after Easter)<br>\nThe Lesser Litanies at St. Mary Major (Monday after the 5th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nThe Lesser Litanies at St. John Lateran (Tuesday after the 5th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nThe Vigil of the Ascension of our Lord Jesus Christ and the Lesser Litanies at St. Peter's (Wednesday after the 5th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nThe Ascension (Thursday after the 5th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nThe Octave of the Ascension (Thursday after the 6th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nThe Vigil of Pentecost (Saturday after the 6th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nPentecost (7th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nHoly Trinity and the Octave of Pentecost (8th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nCorpus Christi (Thursday after the 8th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nOctave of Corpus Christi (Thursday after the 9th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nSacred Heart of Jesus (Friday after the 9th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nOctave of the Sacred Heart of Jesus (Friday after the 10th Sunday after Easter)<br>\nThe 1954 calendar assigned special celebrations also to the days within these Octaves, as to the days within the Octaves of fixed feasts.\n\nThe pre-1962 Roman Missal also listed a number of celebrations in the section headed \"Mass for Some Places\". These celebrations were:\n\nThe Holy House of Loreto (10 December)<br>\nThe Expectation of the Blessed Virgin Mary (18 December)<br>\nThe Betrothal of the Virgin Mary with Saint Joseph (23 January)<br>\nSaint Ildephonsus (23 January)<br>\nThe Flight into Egypt (17 February)<br>\nSaint Margaret of Cortona (26 February)<br>\nThe Prayer of Christ (Tuesday after Septuagesima)<br>\nCommemoration of the Passion of Christ (Tuesday after Sexagesima)<br>\nThe Sacred Crown of Thorns (Friday after Ash Wednesday)<br>\nThe Sacred Lance and Nails (Friday after the First Sunday in Lent)<br>\nThe Holy Shroud (Friday after the Second Sunday in Lent)<br>\nThe Five Holy Wounds (Friday after the Third Sunday in Lent)<br>\nThe Precious Blood (Friday after the Fourth Sunday in Lent)<br>\nSaint Catherine of Genoa (22 March)<br>\nSaint Benedict Joseph Labre (16 April)<br>\nOur Lady of Good Counsel (26 April)<br>\nSaint Isidore the Farmer (15 May)<br>\nSaint John Nepomucene (16 May)<br>\nSaint Rita of Cascia (22 May)<br>\nSaint John Baptist de Rossi (23 May)<br>\nOur Lady Help of Christians (24 May)<br>\nSaint Ferdinand III (30 May)<br>\nSaint Joan of Arc (30 May)<br>\nOur Lady Queen of All Saints and Mother of Fair Love (31 May)<br>\nOur Lady Mediatrix of All Graces (31 May)<br>\nOur Lady Queen of the Apostles (Saturday after the Ascension)<br>\nThe Eucharistic Heart of Jesus (Thursday the Sacred Heart)<br>\nThe Immaculate Heart of Mary (Saturday after the Octave of the Sacred Heart of Jesus)<br>\nOur Lady Mother of Grace (9 June)<br>\nSaint John Francis Regis (16 June)<br>\nOur Lady of Prompt Succor (27 June)<br>\nAll Holy Popes (3 July)<br>\nSaint Lawrence of Brindisi (7 July)<br>\nSaint Veronica Giuliani (9 July)<br>\nHumility of the Blessed Virgin Mary (17 July)<br>\nOur Lady Mother of Mercy (Saturday after the 4th Sunday of July)<br>\nSaint Emygdius (9 August)<br>\nSaint Philomena (11 August)<br>\nOur Lady Refuge of Sinners (13 August)<br>\nSaint John Berchmans (13 August)<br>\nSaint Roch (16 August)<br>\nEmpress Helena (18 August)<br>\nOur Lady of Consolation (Saturday after the Feast of St. Augustine)<br>\nOur Lady Help of the Sick (Saturday after the last Sunday in August)<br>\nSaint Rose of Viterbo (4 September)<br>\nSaint Peter Claver (9 September)<br>\nSaint Gregory the Illuminator (1 October)<br>\nPurity of the Blessed Virgin Mary (16 October)<br>\nFeast of the Holy Redeemer (23 October)<br>\nThe Sacred Relics (5 November)<br>\nSaint Stanislaus Kostka (13 November)<br>\nOur Lady Mother of Divine Providence (Saturday after the 3rd Sunday in November)<br>\nSt. Leonard of Port Maurice (26 November)<br>\nOur Lady of the Miraculous Medal (27 November)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "304458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304458", "title": "George Seldes", "text": "George Seldes\n\nHenry George Seldes ( ; November 16, 1890 – July 2, 1995) was an American investigative journalist, foreign correspondent, editor, author, and media critic best known for the publication of the newsletter \"In Fact\" from 1940 to 1950. He was an investigative reporter of the kind known in early 20th century as a muckraker, using his journalism to fight injustice and justify reform. But by his time the public mood had changed, and reader demand for muckraking was much weaker. According to historian Helen Fordham, Seldes's career demonstrates how those who crusaded too vehemently seemed to violate new standards of impartiality and objectivity. His work was often criticized as too radical.\n\nInfluenced by Lincoln Steffens and Walter Lippmann, Seldes's career began when he was hired at the \"Pittsburgh Leader\" at the age of 19. In 1914, he was appointed night editor of the \"Pittsburgh Post\".\n\nIn 1916, he went to the United Press in London. In 1917, during World War I, he moved to France to work at the Marshall Syndicate. While there, he interviewed Paul von Hindenburg, the supreme commander of the German Army. Hindenburg commented on Germany's defeat in the war, including U.S. involvement, and the interview was censored by the U. S. military. Seldes later claimed the interview's publication could have prevented the Nazis' rise to power and thus World War II.\n\nAfter World War I, Seldes spent ten years as a reporter for the \"Chicago Tribune\". In 1922, he interviewed Vladimir Lenin, and in 1923 he was expelled from the Soviet Union, along with three colleagues, for disguising news reports as personal letters; a letter his publisher wrote for the Soviets only facilitated his expulsion. The newspaper then sent him to Italy, where he implicated Benito Mussolini in opposition leader Giacomo Matteotti's murder. He was again expelled.\n\nIn 1927, Seldes reported for the \"Chicago Tribune\" in Mexico, where he criticized the use of the country's mineral rights by American companies. He battled with the \"Tribune's\" owner and publisher, Colonel Robert McCormick, over the paper's altering of his Mexico articles, and soon afterward quit the \"Tribune\" over what he considered to be censorship.\n\nIn 1929, Seldes became a freelance reporter and author, subsequently writing a series of books and criticism about his years as a foreign correspondent, and the issues of censorship, suppression and distortion in the press. During the late 1930s he had one more stint as a foreign correspondent, with his wife Helen, for the New York \"Post\", in Spain during the Spanish Civil War.\n\nIn 1940, Seldes co-founded a weekly newsletter, \"In Fact\", subtitled \"an Antidote to Falsehoods in the Daily Press.\" In it, he attacked corporate malfeasance, often using government documents from the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). He exposed the health hazards of cigarettes and attacked the mainstream press for suppressing them, blaming the newspapers' heavy dependence on cigarette advertising. He cited J. Edgar Hoover and the FBI for anti-union campaigns, and brought attention to the National Association of Manufacturers' use of advertising dollars to produce news stories favorable to its members and suppress unfavorable ones.\n\nHaving both staunch admirers and strong critics, Seldes influenced some younger journalists. He received an award for professional excellence from the Association for Education in Journalism in 1980 and a George Polk Award for his life's work in 1981. Seldes also served on the board of Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR).\n\nThe writer and critic Gilbert Seldes was George Seldes's younger brother. Actress Marian Seldes was his niece; his nephew was the literary agent Timothy Seldes.\n\nHe was married to Helen Larkin Seldes, née Wiesman, from 1932 to her death in 1979.\n\nHenry George Seldes, named after economist Henry George, was born on November 16, 1890, to ethnic Jewish émigrés from Russia in Alliance Colony, an agricultural community in rural southern New Jersey. His mother, Anna Saphro, died in 1896 when he and his younger brother, Gilbert, were still young. George's father, George Sergius Seldes, was a pharmacist and a strongly opinionated and radically philosophical man who was a libertarian and corresponded with Leo Tolstoy and Peter Kropotkin, being interested in the latter's ideas on . He influenced every aspect of his sons' lives, pushing them to \"read books that you will reread—and that you will never outgrow,\" and refusing to force religion upon children who were \"too young to understand it,\" instilling a free-thinking attitude in his sons.\n\nWhen he was 19, Seldes went to work at the \"Pittsburgh Leader\". An early scoop of his for this paper was when two-time presidential candidate William Jennings Bryan expelled Seldes from Bryan's hotel room. He also interviewed a saleswoman who had filed a rape complaint against the son of the owner on a large department store, but the story was not published, and Seldes became outraged when the advertising department of the newspaper blackmailed the owner into buying more advertising. In 1914, he was appointed night editor of the \"Pittsburgh Post\". As a young journalist, he was influenced by the investigative journalism of muckraker Lincoln Steffens, whom he met in 1919.\n\nIn 1916, Seldes moved to London where he worked for the United Press. When the United States joined the First World War in 1917, Seldes was sent to France where he worked as the war correspondent for the Marshall Syndicate.\n\nAt end of the war, he obtained an exclusive interview with Paul von Hindenburg, the supreme commander of the German Army, in which Hindenburg acknowledged the role America had played in defeating Germany. \"The American infantry,\" said Hindenburg, \"won the World War in battle in the Argonne.\" Seldes and the others were accused of breaking the Armistice and were court martialed. They were also forbidden to write anything about the interview and it never appeared in American news media. Seldes believed that blocking publication of this interview proved tragic. Unaware of Hindenburg's direct testimony of Germany's military defeat, Germans adopted the \"Dolchstoss\" or \"stab-in-the-back\" theory that Germany had only lost the war because it was betrayed at home by \"the socialists, the Communists and the Jews,\" which served as Nazism's explanation for Germany's defeat. \"If the Hindenburg interview had been passed by Pershing's censors at the time, it would have been headlined in every country civilized enough to have newspapers and undoubtedly would have made an impression on millions of people and became an important page in history,\" wrote Seldes. \"I believe it would have destroyed the main planks on which Hitler rose to power, it would have prevented World War II, the greatest and worst war in all history, and it would have changed the future of all mankind.\"\n\nSeldes claimed that the Battle of Saint-Mihiel never happened. In his account, General Pershing planned to capture the city, but on September 1 the Germans decided to remove their forces from Saint-Mihiel to reinforce other positions. Seldes claimed no shots were fired as the first Americans, he among them, entered the city on September 13 to be greeted as liberators before General Pershing, Pétain, and other high-ranking officers arrived. The thousands of German prisoners captured, he wrote, were taken as they mistakenly arrived at the train station days later to relieve the German troops that had left days earlier.\n\nSeldes spent the next ten years as an international reporter for the \"Chicago Tribune\". He interviewed Lenin in 1922. He and three other reporters were expelled in 1923 when Soviet authorities, who routinely censored foreign reporters' telegraphed dispatches, found articles by the four reporters, disguised as personal letters, being smuggled out in a diplomatic mailpouch to avoid censorship. The expulsion was facilitated, according to Seldes, after his publisher, Colonel Robert McCormick, failed to show sufficient respect when writing to the Soviets to protest censorship.\n\nThe \"Chicago Tribune\" sent him to Italy where he wrote about Benito Mussolini and the rise of fascism. (Mussolini had served as Seldes's stringer before the former took power.) He investigated the murder of Giacomo Matteotti, the head of the parliamentary section of the Italian Unitary Socialist Party. His article implicated Mussolini in the killing, and Seldes was expelled from Italy. He wrote an account of Italian censorship and intimidation of American reporters for \"Harper's Magazine\".\n\nIn 1927, the \"Chicago Tribune\" sent Seldes to Mexico, but his articles criticizing American corporations for their use of that country's mineral rights were not well received. Seldes returned to Europe, but found that his work increasingly censored to fit the political views of the newspaper's owner, Robert R. McCormick.\n\nDisillusioned, Seldes left the \"Tribune\" and went to work as a freelance writer. In his first two books, \"You Can't Print That!\" (1929) and \"Can These Things Be!\" (1931), Seldes included material that he had not been allowed to publish in the \"Tribune\". His next book, \"World Panorama\" (1933), was a narrative history of the interbellum period. In 1932 he married Helen Larkin Wiesman (later Seldes), who died in the late 1970s.\n\nIn 1934, Seldes published a history of the Roman Catholic Church, \"The Vatican\". This was followed by an exposé of the global arms industry, \"Iron, Blood and Profits\" (1934) and an account of Benito Mussolini, \"Sawdust Caesar\" (1935).\n\nTwo books on the newspaper business established his enduring reputation as a critic of the press: \"Freedom of the Press\" (1935) and \"Lords of the Press\" (1938). He took the title of the latter from a speech by Secretary of the Interior Harold Ickes: \"Our ancestors did not fight for the right of a few Lords of the Press to have almost exclusive control of and censorship over the dissemination of news and ideas.\" He believed \"that advertisers were a far greater threat to journalistic freedom than government censorship.\" The press and news, he wrote, \"are coming more and more under the domination of a handful of corporate publishers who may print such news as they wish to print and omit such news as they do not wish to print.\" \"Time\" was initially positive in its response: \"A rambling but effective attack on U. S. newspapers, charging coloring, distortion or suppression of vital news, containing some enlightening instances of journalistic malpractices as George Seldes encountered them during his career as correspondent.\" Later, \"Time\" called him a muckraker, meaning a biased and crusading critic, when it called another writer's work \"refreshingly fair and accurate (especially in comparison with muckraking books like George Seldes' Lords of the Press).\" Seldes told of his pursuit of a tobacco study that he would make public years later, though the author of the study denied his account and claimed his work had been widely cited in the press.\n\nHe also reported on the Spanish Civil War on a freelance basis for three years and later said that American reporters too readily accepted what the Franco side wanted them to believe.\n\nOn his return to the United States in 1940, Seldes published \"Witch Hunt\", an account of the persecution of people with left-wing political views in America, and \"The Catholic Crisis\", which sought to demonstrate the close relationship between the Catholic Church and fascist organizations in Europe. When \"Time\" reviewed the latter, it noted several of Seldes' works and said he \"stuck out his tongue at Benito Mussolini ... thumbed his nose at U. S. journalism ... and uttered some hoarse Bronx cheers at the Roman Catholic Church.\" The review complained that his detailed accounts of church activities were \"in part damaging\" but \"not all germane to the subject.\"\n\nFrom 1940 to 1950, Seldes published a political newsletter, \"In Fact\" which originally had the full name \"In Fact: For the millions who want a free press\" and later \"In Fact: An Antidote for Falsehood in the Daily Press\", \"a four-page weekly compendium of news other newspapers wouldn't print.\" Washington Post editor and later press critic Ben Bagdikian said, \"When Seldes was no longer printed by the mainstream press, he was an important conduit to the journalistic community, who knew that there were flaws in the system, but often couldn't get printed in their own newspapers, because the press cannot be a watchdog on itself. So they fed stories critical of the press to Seldes.\" At the height of its popularity it had a circulation of 176,000.\n\nOne of the first articles published in the newsletter concerned the dangers of cigarette smoking. Seldes later explained that at the time, \"The tobacco stories were suppressed by every major newspaper. For ten years we pounded on tobacco as being one of the only legal poisons you could buy in America.\" At a time when tobacco companies were major advertisers, Seldes discussed the contents of a study called, \"Tobacco Smoking and Longevity\", which he said had been suppressed since 1939. Throughout the 10-year run of \"In Fact\", Seldes published more than 50 stories on the health effects of tobacco, and the cigarette industry's attempts and suppressing such news.\n\nAmong the favorite targets of \"In Fact\" was the National Association of Manufacturers. Defense analyst Daniel Ellsberg, who subscribed to \"In Fact\" while an undergrad at Harvard, said, \"I heard about the National Association of Manufacturers first from Seldes and more from Seldes than I ever heard again. If you were to read the mainstream press, you'd hardly become aware that such organizations existed, that businessmen worked together to pursue their own interests.\" \"In Fact\" also attacked Charles Lindbergh for his Nazi sympathies, the American Legion for helping to break strikes, and labeled many captains of industry as \"native fascists.\" Consumer advocate Ralph Nader said, \"[Seldes] used the word fascism to reflect an authoritarian state of mind that tended to stifle free speech and dissent and also tended to believe that might was right.\"\n\n\"In Fact\" immediately attracted the attention of government authorities. President Roosevelt ordered an FBI investigation of Seldes and \"In Fact\" in 1940. Articles claiming that the FBI was infiltrating unions and monitoring union activities resulted in FBI surveillance of Seldes and his publication. J. Edgar Hoover sent Seldes a 15-page letter denying such FBI activities. The FBI subsequently questioned \"In Fact\" subscribers, particularly servicemen and women, and had US postal officials reporting to the FBI on Seldes' mail correspondence. \"In Fact\" lost many of its subscribers in the late 1940s. Seldes later claimed that his critical coverage of Yugoslavia got the publication banned from Communist Party bookstores. The political climate discouraged subscriptions on the part of less ideologically committed readers as well. \"In Fact\" ceased publication in 1950. \"I. F. Stone's Weekly\", which started publication in 1953, took \"In Fact\" as its model.\n\nIn addition to writing his newsletter, Seldes continued to publish books. These included \"Facts and Fascism\" (1943) and \"One Thousand Americans\" (1947), an account of the people who controlled America. \"Time\" called \"One Thousand Americans\" \"a collection of truths, half-truths and untruths about the U.S. press and industry.\" \"One Thousand Americans\" introduced a wide audience to the Business Plot, a supposed plan of America's corporate elite to overthrow the U.S. government in the early 1930s.\n\nSeldes published \"The People Don't Know\" on the origins of the Cold War in 1949.\n\nAccording to KGB documents, Seldes was a longtime secret member of the Communist Party since well before 1940, valued for his \"major connections\" in Washington.\n\nSeldes later wrote that \"In Fact\" was founded at the instigation of the U.S. Communist Party leadership, but he wrote that the Party worked through his partner Bruce Minton (also known as Richard Bransten) without his knowledge. Seldes wrote that he was unaware that Minton was a Party member who received the funds to start \"In Fact\" from Communist Party. While his political positions often were similar to those in the Party in 1940, by 1948 Seldes was writing in positive terms of the anti-Soviet communism of Marshal Tito in Yugoslavia, earning him the wrath of many Communist Party loyalists in the United States. As the Cold War took shape at the end of the decade, Seldes lost readership from both the Communists and the anti-liberal-left sentiment that was sweeping the country, including a trade union movement that had contained some of his largest audience. The nationwide atmosphere of McCarthyism and red-baiting further diminished his subscribers' numbers, and he was financially forced to close \"In Fact\", which never accepted advertising, in October 1950.\n\nSenator Joseph McCarthy subpoenaed Seldes in 1953, Seldes vehemently denied Communist Party membership and was \"cleared\" by McCarthy's Senate subcommittee, but Seldes's greatest influence on readers had already passed. Seldes did publish \"Tell the Truth and Run\" in 1953, but otherwise found it difficult to publish his work throughout the 1950s. He was approached, however, by an old friend and colleague, I.F. Stone, for advice on how to start a small independent investigative newspaper. \"I.F. Stone's Weekly\" premiered in 1953, picking up where Seldes had left off.\n\nLargely dropping his own writing, he developed an anthology called \"The Great Quotations\" and received rejections from 20 publishers. It sold more than a million copies when it appeared in 1961.\n\nIn a letter to \"Time\" magazine in 1974, he appraised the state of American journalism as much improved in his lifetime:\n\nThe press deserved the attacks and criticisms of Will Irwin (1910) and Upton Sinclair (1920) and the muckrakers who followed, and it needs today the watchdog and gadfly activities of the new critical weeklies, but all in all it is now a better medium of mass information ... The 1972 Watergate disclosures, it is true, were made by only a score of the members of the mass media, but I remember Teapot Dome when only one of our 1,750 dailies (the Albuquerque Morning Journal) dared to tell the truth about White House corruption. We have come a long way since.\n\nHe published \"Never Tire of Protesting\" in 1968 and \"Even the Gods Can't Change History\" in 1976.\n\nThe Association for Education in Journalism gave him an award for professional excellence in 1980. In 1981 he received the George Polk Award for his life's work.\n\nHe published his autobiography, \"Witness to a Century\" in 1987. He wrote: \"And so [my brother] Gilbert and I, brought up without a formal religion, remained throughout our lifetimes just what Father was, freethinkers. And, likewise, doubters and dissenters and perhaps Utopians. Father's rule had been 'Question everything, take nothing for granted,' and I never outlived it, and I would suggest it be made the motto of a world journalists' association.\"\n\nIn 1981, Seldes appeared in Warren Beatty's \"Reds\", a film about the life of journalist John Reed. Seldes appears as one of the film's \"witnesses\" commenting on the historical events depicted in the film.\n\nSeldes served on the board of Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR).\n\nMartin A. Lee and Norman Solomon used a quote from Seldes as an epigraph for their book \"Unreliable Sources\": \"The most sacred cow of the press is the press itself.\"\n\nSeldes died on July 2, 1995, in Windsor, Vermont. He was 104. A delegation of journalists attended the memorial service at his home in Hartland-4-Corners, Vermont, read from his books and watched an excerpt from \",\" a documentary in progress.\n\nThe documentary was produced and directed by Rick Goldsmith and premiered the following year, in 1996. It covered Seldes's life and career, and revived the life and work of a man who for four decades had been largely forgotten. The film looked at Seldes's life and work, especially the theme of censorship and suppression in America's news media. It was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature, and received many other accolades, including the John O'Connor Film Award from the American Historical Association.\n\nSeldes had both staunch admirers and strong critics. Some of his contemporaries and later historians have judged much of his work harshly. One critic thought I. F. Stone \"was light years beyond Seldes.\" Others cited his political bias and preconceptions. A study of the Dies Committee said that Seldes's account in \"Witch Hunt\" suffered from his view that everything the Committee did was wrong. Another warned that \"The Catholic Crisis\" \"should be read with great caution in view of the author's latent anti-Catholic and pro-Communist bias.\" Another cited Seldes as a writer with \"an agenda.\" Still another evaluated \"Iron, Blood, and Profits\" as \"less sober\" than other works on the subject of international arms dealing. Of his biography of Mussolini, another wrote: \"many of his sources were unreliable and his book was almost devoid of logical order.\" A more appreciative assessment said \"Freedom of the Press\" was \"one-sided, but well deserves careful reading.\" Summing up Seldes's work, another wrote that \"until 1947 [Seldes] followed the Stalinist line so closely that any author must use him with the utmost care.\"\n\nA. J. Liebling said on him, \"[George Seldes is] about as subtle as a house falling in. He makes too much of the failure of newspapers to print exactly what George Seldes would have printed if he were the managing editor. But he is a useful citizen. In fact is a fine little gadfly, representing an enormous effort for one man and his wife\".\n\nBut a whole generation of journalists and activists were influenced greatly by Seldes. Long-time \"Washington Post\" columnist Colman McCarthy said, \"He was a reporter who didn't worry about being objective. He worried about what he would choose to write. I'm always amused when they call somebody 'one-sided'. Seldes offered one side – the side you weren't getting elsewhere\". Nader said of Seldes, \"He was like a doctor. He reported about disease in the political economy, and the gross inequities of power, and the abuses and the exploitation. I always wanted to be a crusading lawyer, and he gave me some materials to contemplate crusading about.\" Journalist Nat Hentoff said, \"He took what should be the most honorable term in journalism – muckraking – and made it work again. A lot of journalists of his generation and the generation or two that followed, did more, took risks, because [Seldes] was the model. And the fact that he was there made them feel like whores if they didn't do more.\"\n\nPeople such as Peggy Charren and I. F. Stone also claimed influence from Seldes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "200202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200202", "title": "Greg Graffin", "text": "Greg Graffin\n\nGregory Walter Graffin (born November 6, 1964) is an American punk rock singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist, college lecturer, and author. He is most recognized as the lead vocalist, songwriter, and only constant member of the noted Los Angeles band Bad Religion, which he co-founded in either 1979 or 1980. He also embarked on a solo career in 1997, when he released the album \"American Lesion\". His follow-up album, \"Cold as the Clay\" was released nine years later. Graffin obtained his PhD in the history of science at Cornell University and has lectured courses in natural sciences at both the University of California, Los Angeles and at Cornell University.\n\nIn 1979, at the age of 15, Greg Graffin and a few high school classmates formed Bad Religion in Southern California's San Fernando Valley. After making a name for themselves in the Los Angeles punk scene, releasing two EPs and two full-length albums, they disbanded around 1985. However, Bad Religion reformed in 1986 with a new line-up, consisting of Graffin on vocals, Brett Gurewitz and Greg Hetson on guitars, Jay Bentley on bass, and Pete Finestone on drums. In 1988, they released \"Suffer\", which was a comeback for Bad Religion as well as a watershed for the Southern California punk sound popularized by guitarist Gurewitz's Epitaph Records. The reunion line-up made two more records before Finestone left the band in 1991.\n\nBad Religion has been known for its articulate and often politically charged lyrics as well as its fast-paced harmony, melody and counterpoint. Graffin and Gurewitz are the band's two main songwriters, though Graffin wrote the bulk of the material on his own for a three-album period in the late 1990s. Gurewitz had left the band in 1994 to concentrate on the future of Epitaph.\n\nAfter a stint with major label Atlantic Records ended in the early 2000s, Bad Religion re-signed with Epitaph and Gurewitz rejoined. They have since continued to co-write songs and recorded five records: \"The Process of Belief\" (2002), \"The Empire Strikes First\" (2004), \"New Maps of Hell\" (2007), \"The Dissent of Man\" (2010) and the latest, \"True North\" (2013).\n\nGraffin recorded a solo album in 1997, called \"American Lesion\", which consisted of softer, more pop-oriented folk songs. Most of this album was written during the breakup of his marriage, and the songs reflect this in lyrics and style.\n\nIn 2005, Graffin recorded his second solo album \"Cold as the Clay.\" The album is an amalgamation of new songs by Graffin and 18th- and 19th-century American folk songs. It was produced by Brett Gurewitz and released on ANTI- Records on July 10, 2006.\n\nIn a September 2015 interview, Graffin revealed that he has been working on his third solo album, which will continue the folk style of his previous album \"Cold as the Clay\". His latest record, \"Millport\" was released on March 10, 2017. It was co-written and produced by Brett Gurewitz of Bad Religion and features members of Social Distortion as backing musicians.\n\nGraffin attended El Camino Real High School, then obtained both his bachelor's and master's at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). He went on to earn his PhD in the history of science from Cornell University. The PhD dissertation was supervised by William B. Provine. After years of being out-of-print, the title of his dissertation changed to \"Evolution and Religion: Questioning the Beliefs of the World's Eminent Evolutionists\".\n\nGreg Graffin returned to UCLA where he taught natural science courses. In a June 2008 interview with Bad Religion bassist Jay Bentley, he mentioned that Graffin would be teaching there from January to March 2009. In April 2011, Graffin revealed that he would return to Cornell University that fall to co-teach for 14 weeks.\n\nGreg Graffin received the Rushdie Award for Cultural Humanism from the Harvard Humanist Chaplaincy in 2008. \n\nThroughout 2003, Graffin was engaged in an ongoing email discussion with Preston Jones, a historian at the Christian John Brown University in Arkansas and fan of Bad Religion. The informal philosophical debate that resulted was published as a book titled \"Is Belief in God Good, Bad or Irrelevant? A Professor and Punk Rocker Discuss Science, Religion, Naturalism & Christianity\" in 2006.\n\nIn 2009 Graffin announced that he had co-written a book with American author Steve Olson titled \"Anarchy Evolution\", released on September 28, 2010 (the same day his band Bad Religion released their 15th album \"The Dissent of Man\"). In his book, Graffin writes that he is an atheist: \"I’ve never believed in God, which technically makes me an atheist\". Although Graffin is not religious, he prefers to identify as a naturalist rather than as an atheist. \"Naturalism is a belief system. A lot of scientists bristle at that. We all have to believe we can find the truth. Evidence is my guide. I rely on observation, experimentation and verification.\" He also filmed and co-produced a television pilot called \"Punk Professor\". \n\nIn 2010, he commented on the project, \"It's sitting on someone's shelf waiting to be developed. I'm not actually pursuing it. I said, yeah, I'll shoot the pilot, then it's out of my hands.\"\n\nOn March 24, 2012, Bad Religion headlined the Reason Rally in Washington, D.C., where Graffin performed the U.S. national anthem.\n\nAnother book, entitled \"The Population Wars\", was released in September 2015. It had been in works since at least April 2011 and Graffin spoke about it to be \"a bit more in depth about the process of evolution\". In a November 2015 interview with \"PopMatters\" journalist J.C. Maçek III for Graffin's book \"Population Wars\", Graffin stated \"I’ve made a lot of mistakes, but you can’t dwell on mistakes because life is about an adventure. It’s about discovery. And you learn from your mistakes so unless you’re completely shut down to improving your life, I believe you can continue learning until you’re very, very old. You have to look at those past missteps as learning experiences.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "187544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187544", "title": "Hermann Weyl", "text": "Hermann Weyl\n\nHermann Klaus Hugo Weyl, (; 9 November 1885 – 8 December 1955) was a German mathematician, theoretical physicist and philosopher. Although much of his working life was spent in Zürich, Switzerland and then Princeton, New Jersey, he is associated with the University of Göttingen tradition of mathematics, represented by David Hilbert and Hermann Minkowski.\n\nHis research has had major significance for theoretical physics as well as purely mathematical disciplines including number theory. He was one of the most influential mathematicians of the twentieth century, and an important member of the Institute for Advanced Study during its early years.\n\nWeyl published technical and some general works on space, time, matter, philosophy, logic, symmetry and the history of mathematics. He was one of the first to conceive of combining general relativity with the laws of electromagnetism. While no mathematician of his generation aspired to the 'universalism' of Henri Poincaré or Hilbert, Weyl came as close as anyone. Michael Atiyah, in particular, has commented that whenever he examined a mathematical topic, he found that Weyl had preceded him.\n\nWeyl was born in Elmshorn, a small town near Hamburg, in Germany, and attended the gymnasium Christianeum in Altona.\n\nFrom 1904 to 1908 he studied mathematics and physics in both Göttingen and Munich. His doctorate was awarded at the University of Göttingen under the supervision of David Hilbert whom he greatly admired.\n\nIn September 1913 in Göttingen, Weyl married Friederike Bertha Helene Joseph (March 30, 1893 – September 5, 1948) who went by the name Helene (nickname \"Hella\"). Helene was a daughter of Dr. Bruno Joseph (December 13, 1861 – June 10, 1934), a physician who held the position of Sanitätsrat in Ribnitz-Damgarten, Germany. Helene was a philosopher (she was a disciple of phenomenologist Edmund Husserl) and also a translator of Spanish literature into German and English (especially the works of Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset). It was through Helene's close connection with Husserl that Hermann became familiar with (and greatly influenced by) Husserl's thought. Hermann and Helene had two sons, Fritz Joachim Weyl (February 19, 1915 – July 20, 1977) and Michael Weyl (September 15, 1917 – March 19, 2011), both of whom were born in Zürich, Switzerland. Helene died in Princeton, New Jersey on September 5, 1948. A memorial service in her honor was held in Princeton on September 9, 1948. Speakers at her memorial service included her son Fritz Joachim Weyl and mathematicians Oswald Veblen and Richard Courant. In 1950 Hermann married sculptress Ellen Bär (née Lohnstein) (April 17, 1902 – July 14, 1988), who was the widow of professor Richard Josef Bär (September 11, 1892 – December 15, 1940) of Zürich.\n\nAfter taking a teaching post for a few years, Weyl left Göttingen in 1913 for Zürich to take the chair of mathematics at the ETH Zurich, where he was a colleague of Albert Einstein, who was working out the details of the theory of general relativity. Einstein had a lasting influence on Weyl, who became fascinated by mathematical physics. In 1921 Weyl met Erwin Schrödinger, a theoretical physicist who at the time was a professor at the University of Zürich. They were to become close friends over time. Weyl had some sort of childless love affair with Erwin's wife Annemarie (Anny) Schrödinger (née Bertel) (December 31, 1896 – October 3, 1965), while at the same time Anny was helping raise an illegitimate daughter of Erwin's named Ruth Georgie Erica March, who was born in 1934 in Oxford, England.\n\nWeyl was a Plenary Speaker of the International Congress of Mathematicians (ICM) in 1928 at Bologna and an Invited Speaker of the ICM in 1936 at Oslo. For the academic year 1928–1929 he was a visiting professor at Princeton University, where he wrote a paper with Howard P. Robertson.\n\nWeyl left Zürich in 1930 to become Hilbert's successor at Göttingen, leaving when the Nazis assumed power in 1933, particularly as his wife was Jewish. He had been offered one of the first faculty positions at the new Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, but had declined because he did not desire to leave his homeland. As the political situation in Germany grew worse, he changed his mind and accepted when offered the position again. He remained there until his retirement in 1951. Together with his second wife Ellen, he spent his time in Princeton and Zürich, and died from a heart attack on December 8, 1955 while living in Zürich.\n\nHermann Weyl was cremated in Zurich on December 12, 1955. His cremains remained in private hands until 1999, at which time they were interred in an outdoor columbarium vault in the Princeton Cemetery (aka the Princeton Cemetery of Nassau Presbyterian Church), located at 29 Greenview Avenue, Princeton (Mercer County), New Jersey. The remains of Hermann's son Michael Weyl (1917–2011) are interred right next to Hermann's ashes in the same columbarium vault in the Princeton Cemetery.\n\nWeyl was a pantheist.\n\nIn 1911 Weyl published \"Über die asymptotische Verteilung der Eigenwerte\" (\"On the asymptotic distribution of eigenvalues\") in which he proved that the eigenvalues of the Laplacian in the compact domain are distributed according to the so-called Weyl law. In 1912 he suggested a new proof, based on variational principles. Weyl returned to this topic several times, considered elasticity system and formulated the Weyl conjecture. These works started an important domain—asymptotic distribution of eigenvalues—of modern analysis.\n\nIn 1913, Weyl published \"Die Idee der Riemannschen Fläche\" (\"The Concept of a Riemann Surface\"), which gave a unified treatment of Riemann surfaces. In it Weyl utilized point set topology, in order to make Riemann surface theory more rigorous, a model followed in later work on manifolds. He absorbed L. E. J. Brouwer's early work in topology for this purpose.\n\nWeyl, as a major figure in the Göttingen school, was fully apprised of Einstein's work from its early days. He tracked the development of relativity physics in his \"Raum, Zeit, Materie\" (\"Space, Time, Matter\") from 1918, reaching a 4th edition in 1922. In 1918, he introduced the notion of gauge, and gave the first example of what is now known as a gauge theory. Weyl's gauge theory was an unsuccessful attempt to model the electromagnetic field and the gravitational field as geometrical properties of spacetime. The Weyl tensor in Riemannian geometry is of major importance in understanding the nature of conformal geometry. In 1929, Weyl introduced the concept of the vierbein into general relativity.\n\nHis overall approach in physics was based on the phenomenological philosophy of Edmund Husserl, specifically Husserl's 1913 \"Ideen zu einer reinen Phänomenologie und phänomenologischen Philosophie. Erstes Buch: Allgemeine Einführung in die reine Phänomenologie \" (Ideas of a Pure Phenomenology and Phenomenological Philosophy. First Book: General Introduction). Husserl had reacted strongly to Gottlob Frege's criticism of his first work on the philosophy of arithmetic and was investigating the sense of mathematical and other structures, which Frege had distinguished from empirical reference.\n\nFrom 1923 to 1938, Weyl developed the theory of compact groups, in terms of matrix representations. In the compact Lie group case he proved a fundamental character formula.\n\nThese results are foundational in understanding the symmetry structure of quantum mechanics, which he put on a group-theoretic basis. This included spinors. Together with the mathematical formulation of quantum mechanics, in large measure due to John von Neumann, this gave the treatment familiar since about 1930. Non-compact groups and their representations, particularly the Heisenberg group, were also streamlined in that specific context, in his 1927 Weyl quantization, the best extant bridge between\nclassical and quantum physics to date. From this time, and certainly much helped by Weyl's expositions, Lie groups and Lie algebras became a mainstream part both of pure mathematics and theoretical physics.\n\nHis book \"The Classical Groups\" reconsidered invariant theory. It covered symmetric groups, general linear groups, orthogonal groups, and symplectic groups and results on their invariants and representations.\n\nWeyl also showed how to use exponential sums in diophantine approximation, with his criterion for uniform distribution mod 1, which was a fundamental step in analytic number theory. This work applied to the Riemann zeta function, as well as additive number theory. It was developed by many others.\n\nIn \"The Continuum\" Weyl developed the logic of predicative analysis using the lower levels of Bertrand Russell's ramified theory of types. He was able to develop most of classical calculus, while using neither the axiom of choice nor proof by contradiction, and avoiding Georg Cantor's infinite sets. Weyl appealed in this period to the radical constructivism of the German romantic, subjective idealist Fichte.\n\nShortly after publishing \"The Continuum\" Weyl briefly shifted his position wholly to the intuitionism of Brouwer. In \"The Continuum\", the constructible points exist as discrete entities. Weyl wanted a continuum that was not an aggregate of points. He wrote a controversial article proclaiming that, for himself and L. E. J. Brouwer, \"We are the revolution.\" This article was far more influential in propagating intuitionistic views than the original works of Brouwer himself.\n\nGeorge Pólya and Weyl, during a mathematicians' gathering in Zürich (9 February 1918), made a bet concerning the future direction of mathematics. Weyl predicted that in the subsequent 20 years, mathematicians would come to realize the total vagueness of notions such as real numbers, sets, and countability, and moreover, that asking about the truth or falsity of the least upper bound property of the real numbers was as meaningful as asking about truth of the basic assertions of Hegel on the philosophy of nature. Any answer to such a question would be unverifiable, unrelated to experience, and therefore senseless.\n\nHowever, within a few years Weyl decided that Brouwer's intuitionism did put too great restrictions on mathematics, as critics had always said. The \"Crisis\" article had disturbed Weyl's formalist teacher Hilbert, but later in the 1920s Weyl partially reconciled his position with that of Hilbert.\n\nAfter about 1928 Weyl had apparently decided that mathematical intuitionism was not compatible with his enthusiasm for the phenomenological philosophy of Husserl, as he had apparently earlier thought. In the last decades of his life Weyl emphasized mathematics as \"symbolic construction\" and moved to a position closer not only to Hilbert but to that of Ernst Cassirer. Weyl however rarely refers to Cassirer, and wrote only brief articles and passages articulating this position.\n\nBy 1949, Weyl was thoroughly disillusioned with the ultimate value of intuitionism, and wrote: \"Mathematics with Brouwer gains its highest intuitive clarity. He succeeds in developing the beginnings of analysis in a natural manner, all the time preserving the contact with intuition much more closely than had been done before. It cannot be denied, however, that in advancing to higher and more general theories the inapplicability of the simple laws of classical logic eventually results in an almost unbearable awkwardness. And the mathematician watches with pain the greater part of his towering edifice which he believed to be built of concrete blocks dissolve into mist before his eyes.\"\n\nIn 1929, Weyl proposed a fermion for use in a replacement theory for relativity. This fermion would be a massless quasiparticle and carry electric charge. An electron could be split into two Weyl fermions or formed from two Weyl fermions. Neutrinos were once thought to be Weyl fermions, but they are now known to have mass. Weyl fermions are sought after for electronics applications to solve some problems that electrons present. Such quasiparticles were discovered in 2015, in a form of crystals known as Weyl semimetals, a type of topological material.<ref name=\"10.1126/science.aaa9297\"> </ref>\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "597758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=597758", "title": "Holden Caulfield", "text": "Holden Caulfield\n\nHolden Caulfield is a fictional character in author J. D. Salinger's 1951 novel \"The Catcher in the Rye\". Since the book's publication, Holden has become an icon for teenage rebellion and angst, and now stands among the most important characters of 20th-century American literature. The name Holden Caulfield was used in an unpublished short story written in 1942 and first appeared in print in 1945.\n\nAlthough it has been conjectured that J. D. Salinger got the name for Holden Caulfield in \"The Catcher in the Rye\" when he saw a marquee for the 1947 film \"Dear Ruth\", starring William Holden and Joan Caulfield, Salinger's first Holden Caulfield story, \"I'm Crazy,\" appeared in \"Collier's\" on December 22, 1945, a year and a half before this movie was released.\n\nHolden is naive and at the same time resentful of the adult world. One of Holden's most striking and quintessential qualities is his powerful revulsion for \"phony\" qualities, a catch-all term for the perceived hypocrisy that irritates Holden. It is this cynicism that causes him to distance himself from other people, despite wanting connection as well. Holden is very much a character of contradiction; at seventeen years of age he is six feet two-and-a-half inches (189 cm) tall, and already has some grey hair – though he himself admits that he sometimes acts more like a 13-year-old than an adult. He continually fails classes, yet is thought of as a \"hot shot\" by his English teacher, with an obvious flair for writing.\n\nHolden Caulfield is the narrator and main character of \"The Catcher in the Rye\". The novel recounts Holden's week in New York City during Christmas break following his expulsion from Pencey Prep, a preparatory school in Pennsylvania based loosely on Salinger's alma mater Valley Forge Military Academy. Holden Caulfield tells his story with surprising honesty from a hospital in California in a cynical and jaded language.\n\nThe character, as Holden Morrisey Caulfield, appears in Salinger's \"Slight Rebellion off Madison\", published in the December 21, 1946, issue of \"The New Yorker\". An earlier version of this story, titled \"Are You Banging Your Head Against a Wall?\" was accepted for publication by \"The New Yorker\" in October 1941, but was not published then because editors found the tone to be too desolate for its readership. An edited version of this short story later became the basis of several chapters in the middle-late section of \"The Catcher in the Rye\" dealing with Caulfield's date with Sally Hayes, during which he confesses his desire to run away with her, meets Carl Luce for drinks, and makes a drunken phone call to the Hayes' home. Unlike the similar sequence in the novel, Caulfield is on a Christmas break from school, and, in the story, the interlude with Sally is split into two occurrences. Also, the meeting with Carl Luce is considerably briefer in the story than in the novel.\n\nCaulfield also figures as a character in the short story \"I'm Crazy\", published in \"Colliers\" (December 22, 1945), and other members of the Caulfield family are featured in \"Last Day of the Last Furlough\", published in \"The Saturday Evening Post\" (July 15, 1944) and the unpublished short stories \"The Last and Best of the Peter Pans\" (c. 1942) and \"The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls\" (c. 1945). \"I'm Crazy\" is closely related to the first chapter of \"The Catcher in the Rye\". It begins with Caulfield standing on a hill at \"Pencey Prep\" watching a football game below, and develops as Holden visits with his history teacher, Mr. Spencer, for a talk about his expulsion from school and his future. Several other details match those found in the first chapter of \"Catcher\", including a reference to the mother of one of Caulfield's schoolmates and to his own mother sending him a gift of ice skates, but the story ends with his returning home instead of running away from school. Once home, he is not shown confronting his parents, who, according to the maid, are playing bridge. Instead, he goes to speak to Phoebe. Their dialogue is similar to that which appears in the later chapters of \"The Catcher in the Rye\". The other notable feature of the story is that his sister Viola gets her first, and only, mention in the Caulfield saga.\n\n\"This Sandwich Has No Mayonnaise\" (\"Esquire\", 1945) has a mention of Holden missing in action during the war.\n\n\"Last Day of the Last Furlough\" relates the final day of Babe Gladwaller before he leaves to fight in World War II. Gladwaller spends part of the day with his little sister before Vincent Caulfield (later renamed D.B. in the novel) arrives. At that point Vincent is a fellow soldier about to leave for the war. Vincent announces that his brother, Holden, has been declared missing in action. Gladwaller's relationship with his younger sister can be seen as a parallel to Caulfield's relationship with Phoebe.\n\n\"The Last and Best of the Peter Pans\" relates the story of Vincent's (D.B.) draft questionnaire being hidden by his mother. The events occur just after the death of Kenneth (later renamed Allie) and reveal the anxiety of Mary Moriarity, an actress and Caulfield's mother. The story is notable for the appearance of Phoebe and Vincent's statements about a child crawling off a cliff.\n\nIn \"The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls,\" Vincent (D.B.) recalls the day his brother Kenneth (Allie) died. The story is set at the Caulfield summer home on Cape Cod. Several details make their way from this story into \"Catcher\", including the characterization of Allie; Allie's poetry-inscribed left-handed baseball mitt; Vincent's girlfriend, Helen, who keeps her kings in the back row (like Jane Gallagher); and Caulfield's critical view of others. While the cause of death in \"Catcher\" is leukemia, here it is due to an unspecified heart condition. Toward the end of the story, Kenneth and Vincent are on the beach. Kenneth decides to go swimming and is knocked out by a wave. Holden, just home from camp, is waiting on the porch with his suitcases as Vincent comes back with Kenneth's unconscious body. Kenneth dies later the same night. The story was reportedly sold to a magazine, only to be taken back by Salinger before publication.\n\nAnother short story of note with relationship to Caulfield is \"The Boy in the People Shooting Hat,\" which was submitted to \"The New Yorker\" sometime between 1948 and 1949 but was never published. It focuses on a fight between two characters named Bobby and Stradlater over Bobby's feelings about Jane Gallagher. This story appears to form the basis for several key scenes in the first several chapters of \"The Catcher in the Rye\".\n\nIn \"\" a Curtis Caulfield is mentioned in passing as \"an exceptionally intelligent and likable boy\" who appeared on the same radio show as Seymour and the other Glass children. He is reportedly \"killed during one of the landings in the Pacific.\"\n\nHolden Caulfield is one of the most enduring characters in 20th-century American fiction. It has been suggested that Salinger himself related so closely to Holden that he was protective of the character. This was the reason he was unwilling to allow filming of the book or use of the character by other writers. \"The Catcher in the Rye\" is required reading in many high school English courses, although it has been banned from some school libraries by parent and teacher groups opposed to its use of profanity and perceived glorification of rebellion.\n\nSalinger's uncollected short stories\n\nFan sites\n"}
{"id": "1164807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1164807", "title": "Holy Guardian Angel", "text": "Holy Guardian Angel\n\nThe term Holy Guardian Angel (HGA) originates in the Catholic Church where a morning prayer is recited which reads, \"Holy Guardian Angel whom God has appointed to be my guardian,\ndirect and govern me during this day/ Amen\". The idea of a Holy Guardian Angel is central to the book, \"The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abra Melin the Mage\", Abraham of Worms, a German Cabalist who wrote the book on ceremonial magick during the 15th century which was later translated by Samuel Liddell MacGregor Mathers, the founder of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn. He elaborated on this earlier work, giving it extensive magical notes, but the original concept goes back to the Zoroastrian Arda Fravaš ('Holy Guardian Angels'). In Mathers' publication of \"The Book of the Sacred Magic of Abramelin the Mage\", he writes: \n\nLater, author and occultist Aleister Crowley popularized the term within his religious and philosophical system of Thelema.\n\nWithin the system of the magical Order A∴A∴ founded by Aleister Crowley, one of the two most important goals is to consciously connect with one’s Holy Guardian Angel, representative of one's truest divine nature: a process termed “Knowledge and Conversation.”\n\nIn some branches of occultism, the term is so widely known that HGA has become a common abbreviation even in non-English-speaking countries. Crowley seems to consider it equivalent to the Genius of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn, the Augoeides of Iamblichus, the Atman of Hinduism, and the Daemon of the ancient Greeks. He borrowed the term from the Grimoire \"The Sacred Magic of Abramelin the Mage\".\n\nEven though the Holy Guardian Angel is, in a sense, the “higher self”, it is often experienced as a separate being, independent from the adept.\n\nCrowley said that the Abramelin procedure was not the only way to achieve success in this endeavour: \n\nSince the operation described in “Abramelin” is so complex and requires time and resources not available to most people, Crowley wanted to provide a more accessible method. While at the Abbey of Thelema in Italy, he wrote \"Liber Samekh\" based on the Bornless Ritual, a ritual designed as an example of how one may attain the Knowledge and Conversation with one’s Holy Guardian Angel. In his notes to this ritual, Crowley sums up the key to success: “INVOKE OFTEN.”\n\nCrowley also explains, in more detail, the general mystical process of the ritual:\n\nAnother detailed description of the general operation is given in \"The Vision and the Voice\" in the eighth Aethyr and is also described in \"Liber 8\".\n\nCrowley only states that the Holy Guardian Angel is the 'silent self' in his early life. In his late sixties, when composing \"Magick Without Tears\", he states something very different. According to Crowley's later definition, the Holy Guardian Angel is not one's 'self', but an independent and discrete being, who may have been a human like oneself at one stage:\n\nThe idea that the HGA is an independent, spiritual being, rather than a manifestation of the Self, has led to uneasiness in some circles that the doctrine is a disguised form of diabolism.\n\nAn occult writer, Peter Carroll split the concept in two and speaks of two \"Holy Guardian Angels\". According to his work \"Liber Null and Psychonaut\", one is the Augoeides, a projected image of whatever the magician strives for, and the other is quantum uncertainty, which ultimately determines the acts of the magician and is a spark of the only true creative force, the chaos of Chaos magic.\n\nAmerican author C.F. Russell was the founder of an occult group called the G.B.G. The G.B.G. taught the use of \"Dianism\", a sex magick ritual in which a participant is to regard their partner as a representation of their Holy Guardian Angel.\n\nThe Enochian system of 16th Century occultist Dr. John Dee offers a concept similar to Crowley's later teachings with regard to the Holy Guardian Angel. It is more in concord with traditional teachings of the HGA as a messenger of God and one of His angels (critics of Crowley's system said it was open to the interpretation of the HGA being either a fallen angel (demon) or a lost, or damned, human soul).\n\nIn this dialog between Dee and the angel Jubanladace on p. 18, Cotton Appendix XLVI 1, the angel says the following:\n\nDee: If I should not offend you, I would gladly know of what order you are or how your state is in respect of Michael, Gabriel, Raphael or Uriel.<br>\n\nJubanladace: Unto men, according unto their deserts, and the first excellency of their soul, God hath appointed a good Governor or Angel, from among the orders of those that are blessed. For every soul that is good, is not of one and the self same dignification. Therefore according to his excellency we are appointed as Ministers from that order, whereunto his excellency accordeth: to the intent that he may be brought, at last, to supply those places which were glorified by a former: and also to the intent, that the Prince of darkness might be counterposed in God's justice.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "607307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=607307", "title": "Ibn al-Muqaffa'", "text": "Ibn al-Muqaffa'\n\nAbū Muhammad ʿAbd Allāh Rūzbih ibn Dādūya (), born Rōzbih pūr-i Dādōē , more commonly known as Ibn al-Muqaffaʿ (), (), was a Persian translator, author and thinker who wrote in the Arabic language.\n\nIbn al-Muqaffa, though a resident of Basra, was originally from the town of Goor (or Gur, Firuzabad, Fars) in the Iranian province of Fars and was born to a family of local notables. His father had been a state official in charge of taxes under the Umayyads, and after being accused and convicted of embezzling some of the money entrusted to him, was punished by the ruler by having his hand crushed, hence the name \"Muqaffa\" (shrivelled hand). Ibn al-Muqaffa served in sectarial posts under the Umayyad governors of Shapur and Kirman. Unlike his other colleagues, he escaped persecution at the hands of Abbasids after their overthrow of the Umayyad dynasty. He later returned to Basra and served as a secretary under Isa ibn Ali and Sulayman ibn Ali, the uncles of the Abbasid caliph al-Mansur. After their brother Abdallah ibn Ali made an abortive bid for the throne, they asked Ibn al-Muqaffa to write a letter to the Caliph to not retaliate against his uncle and pardon him. The language of the letter offended al-Mansur, who wished to be rid of Ibn al-Muqaffa. He was executed around 756 or 759 AD by the governor of Basra. A defense of Manichaean dualism and a few lines of prose written in imitation of the Quran have been ascribed to him. Whether authentic or not, and despite his conversion to Islam, these texts contributed to his posthumous reputation as a heretic.\n\nIbn al-Muqaffa's translation of the \"Kalīla wa Dimna\" from Middle Persian is considered the first masterpiece of Arabic literary prose. \"Ibn al-Muqaffa' was a pioneer in the introduction of literary prose narrative to Arabic literature. He paved the way for later innovators such as al-Hamadani and al-Saraqusti, who brought literary fiction to Arabic literature by adapting traditionally accepted modes of oral narrative transmission into literary prose.\" Ibn al-Muqaffa was also an accomplished scholar of Middle Persian, and was the author of several moral fables.\n\nKalīla wa Dimna : His translation of a Middle Persian collection of animal fables, mostly of Indian origin, involving two jackals, Kalīla and Demna. The Middle Persian original, now lost but thought have been entitled \"Karīrak ud Damanak\" was written by one Borzōē/Borzūya, a Persian physician attached to the Sasanian court in the 6th century. Prefaced by a putative autobiography of Borzūya and an account of his voyage to India, the full work was done into Arabic by Ibn al-Muqaffa', who introduced it with a prologue of his own and may have been responsible for four added stories. From Ibn al-Moqaffaʿ’s Arabic rendering of Borzūya’s work are descended not only all later Arabic versions of Kalīla wa Dimna, but also one of two Syriac versions (the other one is pre-Islamic ) and the medieval Greek, Persian (6th/12th century), Hebrew, Latin, and Castilian versions. Though there are many Arabic manuscripts of Kalīla wa Dimna, Ibn al-Muqaffa'’s version is not among them, and the oldest dated copy was written almost five centuries after his death. That he aimed at an idiomatic rather than a slavishly literal rendering is generally agreed, and all indications are that he achieved clarity of expression by simplicity of diction and plain syntactical structures. As no medieval Arab critic seems to have impugned his style, it was evidently pleasing and well suited to the taste of his Arab readers.\n\nIbn al-Muqaffa'’s translation of Kalīla wa Dimna was not a conscious attempt to start a new literary trend; it was clearly just one of several works of old Sasanian court literature which Ibn al-Muqaffa' introduced to an exclusive readership within court circles, its function being to illustrate what should or should not be done by those aiming at political and social success. Kalīla wa Dimna, nonetheless, served as a stimulus to the development of Arabic prose literature and inspired imitators, artists, and poets. A prose Persian translation of the Arabic text was available as early as the 10th century, of which a versified version was made by Rudaki (d.941-42). Both versions are lost except for a few lines of Rūdakī’s poem preserved in other sources. A later prose translation was rendered by Abu’l-Maʿālī Nasr-Allāh Ibn Mohammad Shirazi and dedicated to the Ghaznavid Bahramshah.\n\nKhwaday-Namag: Ibn al-Muqaffa' is thought to have produced an Arabic adaptation of the late Sasanian Khwaday-Namag, a chronicle of pre-Islamic Persian kings, princes, and warriors. A mixture of legend, myth, and fact, it served as a quasi-national history inspired by a vision of kingship as a well-ordered autocracy with a sacred duty to rule and to regulate its subjects’ conduct within a rigid class system. Interspersed with maxims characteristic of \"andarz\" literature, the narrative also offered practical advice on civil and military matters. Ibn al-Muqaffa' is known to have modified certain parts of the original and excluded others, possibly to make it intelligible to his Arab Muslim readers. He is thought to have inserted an account of Mazdak, from which later Perso-Arab historians derived much of their knowledge of the Mazdakite movement. Like its Middle Persian original, Ibn al-Muqaffa'’s Arabic version is not extant. The \"Oyun al-akhbar\" and the \"Ketab al-maʿaref\" of Ibn Qutayba (d. 889) may preserve fragments of it; certainly the \"Sīar al-ʿAjam\", quoted by Ibn Qutayba without ascription, renders the Khwaday-Namag.\n\nOther books: Ibn al-Nadim attributes several other Arabic translations of Middle Persian works to Ibn al-Muqaffa', namely Āʾīn-nāma, Kitāb al-tāj, and Kitāb Mazdak. Ibn Qutayba is thought to have preserved parts of the Āʾīn-nāma, for in his Oyun a number of passages are quoted, albeit without ascription, with the opening words \"I have read in the Aiin (or Kitāb al-āʾīn)\". The quotations bear on topics such as court manners and customs, military tactics, divination and physiognomy, archery, and polo, subjects typical of various works on Sasanian institutions, protocol, entertainment, general savoir faire, and so on. Also in the Oyun are extracts from a Kitāb al-tāj . Ebn al-Nadim describes this book as a biography of Khosrau I (Anoshirvan), but Ibn Qutayba’s extracts mostly pertain to Khosrau II (Parviz) and suggest a \"mirror for princes\". The subject of the Ketab Mazdak was, as its title implies, the leader of the revolutionary religious movement whose activities led to his execution in 531.A better product of Ibn al-Muqaffa'’s translation activities is the Nāma-ye Tansar, a political work taking its name from its putative author Tansar , the Zoroastrian priestly adviser to the first Sasanian monarch, Ardashir I . Ibn al-Muqaffa'’s Arabic version is lost, but Ibn Isfandiar’s Persian rendering of it, made in the early 13th century and embodied in his \"Tarikh-e Tabarestan\" (History of Tabarestan), reveals its content . Apart from adding various illustrative verses, some…in elegant Persian, Ibn al-Muqaffa evidently inserted Quranic and Biblical quotations, presumably as a concession to Muslims. Be that as it may, his Sasanian text is still Iranocentric: ...we are the best of Persians, and there is no quality or trait of excellence or nobility which we hold dearer than the fact that we have ever showed humility and lowliness…in the service of kings, and have chosen obedience and loyalty, devotion and fidelity. Through this quality…we came to be the head and neck of all the climes...\n\nTwo preceptive works in Arabic are ascribed to Ibn al-Muqaffa', al-Adab al-kabīr and al-Adab al-saghir, but only the first, now known as Kitāb al-ādāb al-kabīr, can be accepted as his . The first of its four parts is a very brief rhetorical retrospect on the excellence of the ancients’ legacy, clearly Sasanian, of spiritual and temporal knowledge. The second is a miniature mirror for princes. The addressee, seemingly the caliph’s son, is apostrophized as one in pursuit of the rule of seemly conduct (adab). He is to give strict priority to the mastery of fundamentals, examples of which are given along with illustrations of the ways in which they can be applied. The author then turns to pitfalls before a prince (e.g., the love of flattery and the fault of allowing others to detect it). More positively, he urges the prince to cultivate men of religion and moral perfection as potential aides and intimates, to take advice, even if unpalatable, from those best qualified to give it, to keep abreast of his officials’ conduct, to be sparing with his favors, and so on. Having defined, very much in a Sasanian vein, the bases of kingship, he discusses particular circumstances calling for caution and prudence. After exhortation to seemly conduct and sundry observations on statecraft he ends by stressing the pivotal role in government of power and a seemly public image. The Ādāb’s third part, longer than the second, is a pragmatic guide to survival for a ruler’s intimates and highly, but precariously, placed officers of state. It offers advice in a high moral vein, but it rests on no philosophical, ethico-religious, or spiritual basis: it rests on familiarity with age-old vagaries of oriental despots and their entourages. The fourth and longest part of the Ādāb treats of a man’s relations with colleagues in what we may take to be the secretarial fraternity. The main theme is friendship and the avoidance of enmity. For Ibn al-Muqaffa', the ideal is a permanent relationship, sustained by fidelity, loyalty, and devotion, and proof against all corrosive forces. As always, his treatment of the subject is didactic and heavily dependent on aphorisms. He remains pragmatic: A friendship should be formed, not with an inferior, but with a superior, for to make friends of inferiors bespeaks envy, which is reprehensible. To shed a friend is a threat to honor—unlike a divorce. To women and their allure he makes certain disparaging references, but they are only incidental to his main interest,promoting companionship and amity in the circles that concern him. One can detect in the Ādāb as a whole certain ideas known to Sasanian Persia from pre-Islamic translations of Greek works . The Ādāb is cast in the parallelistic mode of expression born of the early Khotba and expanded and elaborated in Omayyad hortatory compositions, unembroidered with contrived rhyming of the sort found in later Abbasid prose literature. To point contrasts and enforce parallels, full use is made of devices well known to the ancient schools of rhetoric.\n\nThe Risala fi-l-Sahaba is a short but remarkably percipient administrative text. In less than 5,000 words, he discusses specific problems facing the new Abbasid regime. The unnamed addressee is identifiable as al-Mansur, who may never have seen it. There is no logical arrangement. After an opening eulogy, purposefully complimentary but devoid of extravagant panegyric, he discusses the army, praising the Khorasanis in Iraq but suggesting that, as an ethnically mixed body exposed to heterodox thinking, they should be taught only the tenets of a clear, concise religious code issued by the caliph. Concern for the army’s standing, morale, and future loyalty leads him to suggest reforms, including the removal of fiscal duties from the military, officer recruitment from the ranks based on merit, religious education, inculcation of integrity and loyalty, regular pay linked to inflation, and maintenance of an efficient intelligence service throughout Khorasan and peripheral provinces, regardless of cost. He calls for vigilance and good intelligence in Iraq to counter discontent in Basra and Kufa and pleads for deserving Iraqis to be afforded scope for the exercise of their talents in government service. In view of wide divergences in legal theory and practice, born of local precedents or flawed personal reasoning, he suggests to the caliph a scrutiny and resolution of all conflicts of law by his own command and the imposition of unity by a comprehensive enactment. He recommends cautious clemency for the conquered Syrians, the recruitment from among them of a hand-picked caliphal elite, the lifting of ruinous economic sanctions, and fair distribution of foodstuffs in the Syrian military districts. At long last, he comes to the caliph’s entourage, which, though introduced in glowing terms, can be perceived as far from ideal. In the past, ministers and secretaries—the approach is tactful—brought the entourage into disrepute: men unworthy of access to the caliph became members to the exclusion of, for instance, scions of the great families of early Islam. The caliph should now remedy the situation by taking account of claims to precedence and singling out for preferment men with special talents and distinguished service records, as well as men of religion and virtue and incorruptible and uncorrupting men of noble lineage. Also, the caliph’s kin and princes of his house should be considered. In a section on land-tax (Kharaj) the author focuses on the arbitrary exploitation of cultivators and recommends taxation governed by known rules and registers. After a few lines on Arabia he closes with a proposal for mass education aimed at achieving uniformity of orthodox belief through a body of paid professional instructors. This would make for stability, and trouble-makers would not go unobserved. The Resāla ends with an expression of pious hopes and prayers for the caliph and his people. Stylistically, the work markedly differs from the Ādāb in certain important respects, the reason for which may be the subject-matter.\n\nOf the various works attributed, rightly or wrongly, to Ibn al-Muqaffa', there are two of which we have only fragments quoted in hostile sources. One, posing a problem of authenticity, may be described as a Manichaean apologia. The other is the Moarazat al-Quran, which sees not as anti-Islamic, but rather as an exercise designed to show that in the author’s time something stylistically comparable to the Quran could be composed. Other compositions and occasional pieces attributed to Ibn al-Muqaffa' are the Yatima tania a short, sententious epistle on good and bad rulers and subjects ; may be authentic, though the long resāla entitled Yatimat al-soltan and the collection of aphorisms labeled Hekam certainly are not. A doxology is almost certainly spurious, though a series of passages and sentences that follow it may have come from the lost Yatima fi’l-rasael.\n\nThe Bosnian poet Dzevad Karahasan wrote a play about al-Muqaffa. The world premiere was performed in 1994 during the civil war in Bosnia-Hercegovina by the Bosnian actors Zijah Sokolović and Selma Alispahić from the National Theatre of Sarajevo under the direction of Herbert Gantschacher in a production of the Austrian theatre ARBOS - Company for Music and Theatre in Vienna\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12170841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12170841", "title": "International Union of Muslim Scouts", "text": "International Union of Muslim Scouts\n\nThe International Union of Muslim Scouts () (IUMS) is an autonomous, international body committed to promoting and supporting Islam within Scouting. Its headquarters are in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe idea was first sparked in the 3rd Islamic Conference Summit, held in Taif, KSA (1981).\n\nAs a response Qatar Scout association called for the first Islamic conference together with 1st Islamic Jamboree (Doha - January 1982). Establishment officially declared in Amman, Jordan (1989), during the 3rd International Muslim Scouts Conference. In August 1992, the 6th International Scout Conference, in Pakistan, certified the emblem, organization and the statutes of the IUMS.\n\nThe official objectives of IUMS are: \n\nSince 2006, IUMS has held an annual leadership training course in Switzerland, in conjunction with other organisations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5427056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5427056", "title": "Islam in Seychelles", "text": "Islam in Seychelles\n\nIslam in the Indian Ocean was established by Muslim sea merchants well before the European discovery of Seychelles. However, unlike in other island states including the Comoros and Maldives, there were no permanent inhabitants in Seychelles until the French settlement in 1770. Today, the Muslim population of the islands is reported to be only 1.1%, roughly 900 people. Many of its island neighbors in the southern Indian Ocean, including Comoros, the Maldives and Zanzibar, have a much larger Muslim influence because of their colonization by Muslims, before European colonization. Mauritius also has a much higher Muslim population due to the importation of labour from British India on a scale not seen in Seychelles. The government of Seychelles allows 15 minutes of religious broadcasting every Friday for the Muslim community.\n\n"}
{"id": "39608124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39608124", "title": "JDC International Centre for Community Development", "text": "JDC International Centre for Community Development\n\nThe JDC International Centre for Community Development (JDC-ICCD) is a research organization and think tank based in Oxford University, Oxford, United Kingdom. The charity, founded by American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC), \"is devoted to understanding and analyzing transformations in Europe and their impact on European Jewish communities.\"\n\nThe JDC-ICCD was founded 10 January 2005 to provide education and training, religious activities, prevent or relieve poverty, encourage community and economic development, perform or sponsor research, and to be an advocate.\n\nIn 2011, Trinity College of Hartford, Connecticut, led by the American JDC-ICCD, conducted a survey of European Jewish leaders to ascertain concerns and challenges faced by European Jewish communities, including Antisemitism, leadership, intermarriage and status issues, and Europe and Israel.\n\nJDC-ICCD partnered with the American Jewish Committee's (AJC) Berlin Ramer Institute for German-Jewish Relations to host a conference October 25–27, 2013 titled \"Analyzing Jewish Europe Today: Perspectives from a New Generation.\" Attendees and presenters gathered to discuss new Jewish cultural trends, Muslim-Jewish relations and Jewish revival in Eastern and Central Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44248945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44248945", "title": "Jackie Hill-Perry", "text": "Jackie Hill-Perry\n\nJackie Hill-Perry (née Jackie Hill, born June 21, 1989) is an American poet, writer, and hip hop artist from St. Louis. Hill-Perry initially garnered popularity for her performances of spoken word pieces such as \"My Life as a Stud\", \"A Poem About Weed\", and \"Jig-a-Boo\" at the Passion 4 Christ Movement (P4CM). She has written for various Christian ministry organizations, such as The Resurgence and John Piper's Desiring God, on the topic of Christianity and homosexuality. She signed to the Portland, Oregon-based Christian hip hop label Humble Beast in January 2014, and released her debut album on November 4, 2014, available both commercially and for free. Hill married fellow spoken word artist Preston Perry in March 2014, and now has a one year old baby girl.\n\nAn encounter with sexual abuse as a child contributed to the confusion over her gender identity she faced while growing up, and Hill-Perry at age seventeen decided that she was a lesbian. She lived a life of sexual promiscuity and struggled with drug and pornography addiction, until her conversion to Christianity in 2008. Her self-proclaimed status as a former lesbian has sparked controversy, with many gay rights activists stating that sexual orientation cannot be changed and that Hill-Perry's experience lend credence to the idea of conversion therapy. Hill-Perry, however, maintains her belief that God can transform lives and this faith empowers believers to resist temptation.\n\nJackie Hill-Perry was born Jackie Hill on June 21, 1989 in St. Louis. She grew up in fatherless household, and experienced sexual abuse at the age of five. Hill's upbringing instilled her with a knowledge of God, and she attended church until she was ten. However, her encounter with sexual abuse, combined with school bullying and a lack of attention from boys contributed to her struggle with gender dysphoria. Since the age of four, Hill felt as though she should have been born a boy, and at age six she started imitating male tendencies, such as standing up to use the toilet. At age 17, she discovered that she was a lesbian, and started pursuing multiple serial relationships with other women. Hill's second girlfriend suggested that she be a stud, a woman who takes the masculine role in a lesbian relationship. Hill explains that I was never the 'cute chick' but when I became a stud, it seemed like every girl wanted me. I would be in straight clubs and have girls throwing themselves at me. For a girl that's insecure and craves to feel loved, that was like a drug for me. Frequenting gay clubs and gay pride parades, Hill became caught up in a life of drug and pornography addiction, rebellion, and homosexual promiscuity. However, in October 2008, she converted to Christianity, and turned away from her previous lifestyle.\n\nAs recounted in her poem \"My Life as a Stud\", Hill states that \"one day, the Lord spoke to me. He said, 'She will be the death of you.' In that moment, the scripture for the wages of sin equal death finally clicked.\" Hill left her girlfriend, returned to church, and started writing poetry. She performed her first spoken word piece at a P4CM poetry conference in 2010, and met Preston Perry, the man who would eventually become her husband. Over time, Hill gradually lost interest in women, and Preston proposed to her in August 2013 through the spoken word poem \"The Covenant\". The couple married in March 2014, and Hill-Perry now has a one-year-old baby girl. Hill-Perry attributes that change in her sexuality to God's transformation of her life. Record label Humble Beast announced on January 7, 2014 that it had signed Hill-Perry as an artist. She has appeared as a guest musician on several Christian hip hop recordings, including \"Because You\" \"Asked\" by Swoope and \"Instruments of Mercy\" by Beautiful Eulogy. Her debut album, \"The Art of Joy\", was produced by Beautiful Eulogy and released on November 4, 2014 Hill-Perry is also a staff member of the Legacy Movement ministry.\n\nIn 2016, she, alongside JGivens and John Givez, was featured on Lecrae's \"Misconceptions 3\" from the album Church Clothes 3.\n\nJackie Hill-Perry maintains that she is an ex-lesbian, and that her transition to heterosexuality is among the changes God worked in her life. On July 31, 2013, Christian hip hop radio show Wade-O Radio published an interview with Hill-Perry where she spoke out against the Macklemore song \"Same Love\". Citing 1 Corinthians 6:9-11, she stated that The word of God itself, apart from Jackie Hill, testifies that people can change. So if the word of God is the word of God, then we need to deal with that and believe that it's true. I think we've made God very little if we believe that he cannot change people. If he can make a moon, stars and a galaxy that we have yet to fully comprehend, how can he not simply change my desires? This stance has been criticized by many, particularly gay rights activists. According to \"The Washington Times\", Hill-Perry's experience \"runs counter to pronouncements by gay rights groups that exclaim sexuality as an inherent, immutable characteristic\", and, even further, comes amid \"wide-ranging reports about the psychological dangers of so-called 'reparative therapy,' which aims to change the orientation of homosexuals.\" Hill-Perry estimates that about 40 percent of the messages she has received over social media have been negative. When Hill married Preston Perry in March 2014, one critic accused the couple of both being gay and marrying to \"play God to a bunch of ignorant people.\"\n\nHowever, Hill-Perry, in her 2013 interview with Wade-O Radio, clarified that she does not believe that every Christian with a homosexual disposition will lose those desires. If God chooses not to change my desires, he has promised to give me his Holy Spirit that will help me flee from them. There are people who were alcoholics for 20 years, went through rehab and they don't drink anymore, but sometimes they may be tested. If they see a bottle of whiskey, they're going to want that whisky, but they have a choice.\n\nIn an interview with The Gospel Coalition, Hill-Perry cited Mali Music, Propaganda, and Ebony Moore as \"a few people who inspire me to be great at my craft.\" Theologically, she names pastor John Piper as a major influence, and even based \"Art of Joy\" on Piper's book \"Desiring God\", where Piper explains his concept of Christian hedonism. Hill-Perry states that Aside from the doctrines of grace, it's one concept that has really renewed my mind when it comes to faith and sin. Now, when I look at certain sins, it's not, 'Oh, I'm just doing this because I want to.' No, what in this sin do you think will satisfy me that God can't? It makes my processing of my issues a lot deeper, and it's also expanded my view of God.\n\nJackie Hill-Perry has written for various Christian ministry organizations, focusing on reconciling issues of homosexuality with Christianity. Among these are her articles \"Love Letter to a Lesbian\", written for Desiring God, a ministry of John Piper, and \"A Christian Response to the Same-Sex Marriage Ruling\", for The Resurgence, a ministry of Mars Hill Church.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "495223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495223", "title": "Japamala", "text": "Japamala\n\nA Japamala or mala (Sanskrit:; , meaning \"garland\") is a string of prayer beads commonly used by Hindus, Buddhists,\nJains and some Sikhs for the spiritual practice known in Sanskrit as \"japa\". It is usually made from 108 beads, though other numbers are also used. Malas are used for keeping count while reciting, chanting, or mentally repeating a mantra or the name or names of God.\n\nMantras are typically repeated hundreds or even thousands of times. The mala is used so that one can focus on the meaning or sound of the mantra rather than counting its repetitions. One repetition is usually said for each bead while turning the thumb clockwise around each bead, though some traditions or practices may call for counterclockwise motion or specific finger usage. When arriving at the head bead, one turns the mala around and then goes back in the opposing direction. There are typically knots between each bead. This makes using the mala easier as the beads will not be as tight on the string when used. \n\nIf more than 108 repetitions are to be done, then sometimes in Tibetan traditions grains of rice are counted out before the chanting begins and one grain is placed in a bowl for each 108 repetitions. Each time a full mala of repetitions has been completed, one grain of rice is removed from the bowl. Often, practitioners add extra counters to their malas, usually in strings of ten. These may be positioned differently depending on the tradition; for example some traditions place these strings after every 10th bead. This is an alternative way to keep track of large numbers, sometimes going into the hundreds of thousands, and even millions.\n\nThe 109th bead on a mala is called the sumeru, bindu, stupa, or guru bead. Counting should always begin with a bead next to the sumeru. In the Hindu, Vedic tradition, if more than one mala of repetitions is to be done, one changes directions when reaching the sumeru rather than crossing it. \n\nThere are numerous explanations why there are 108 beads, with the number 108 bearing special religious significance in a number of Hindu and Buddhist traditions.\n\n\nThus, when we recite or recount number 108, we are actually remembering the entire universe. This reminds us of the fact that the universal self is omnipresent, that is the innate nature of the self.\n\nSome Hindu traditions hold that the correct way to use a mala is with the right hand, with the thumb flicking one bead to the next, and with the mala draped over the middle finger. The index finger represents ego, the greatest impediment to self-realization, so it is considered best avoided when chanting on a mala.\n\nIn northeast India, particularly those in the Shakta traditions in West Bengal and Assam, the mala is often draped on the ring finger of the right hand, with beads moved by the middle finger with aid of the thumb and avoiding the use of the index finger. However, draping the mala over the middle finger and using the thumb to move the beads is also acceptable in these regions.\n\nA wide variety of materials are used to make mala beads. Beads made from the seeds of the rudraksha tree are considered sacred by Saivas, devotees of Siva, while beads made from the wood of the tulsi plant are used and revered by Vaishnavas, followers of Vishnu. Other common beads include wood or seeds from the sandalwood tree or the Bodhi tree, and seeds of the Lotus plant. Some Tibetan Buddhist traditions call for the use of animal bone (most commonly yak), those of past Lamas being the most valuable. Semiprecious stones such as carnelian and amethyst may be used, as well. In Hindu Tantra, as well as Buddhist Tantra (or Vajrayana), materials and colors of the beads can relate to a specific practice.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28625858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28625858", "title": "Jaredite kings", "text": "Jaredite kings\n\nJaredite kings are a series of monarchs described in the Book of Mormon, comprising chapters 6:22-15 of the Book of Ether. As death was approaching Jared and his brother, they gathered together the people to ask them what they desired of them before they died. The people then requested that they anoint one of their sons as king. This was grievous to them, and the brother of Jared remarked that \"surely this thing leadeth into captivity.\" Despite his brother's misgivings, Jared pressed him to allow the establishment of a Jaredite kingship at which suggestion the brother of Jared yielded.\n\nThe people chose Pagag, the firstborn of the brother of Jared. He refused. The people then wished to force him to be king but the brother of Jared would not allow that. They suggested his sons, Jacom, Gilgah, and Mahah, but they refused to be king. Then, Orihah, the fourth son, agreed to be king. Thus began the institution of monarchy among the Jaredites sometime after the Tower of Babel and the arrival of the Jaredites in the Americas.\n\n\nKingdom of Noah/Cohor \n\nKingdom of Shule \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41147527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41147527", "title": "Khurasanid dynasty", "text": "Khurasanid dynasty\n\nThe Khurasanid Dynasty (, \"Banu Khurasan\") was a Sunni Muslim dynasty centered in Tunisia. It ruled an independent principality in Tunis from 1059 to 1148 when they became governors of Ifriqiya under the Siculo-Norman kings and their annexions into the Kingdom of Africa, until the end of the dynasty in 1159 from the Almohade conquest.\n\nThe Khurasanid dynasty was founded during the 11th century by Abd al-Haqq ibn Abd al-Aziz ibn Khurasan, who was appointed as governor of Tunis by the Hammadid dynasty. This followed entreaties by locals seeking protection from raids by the Banu Hilal, as the Zirid dynasty sultan Al-Mu'izz ibn Badis offered none. Abd al-Haqq soon made the city an independent principality that would be governed by his family for almost a century.\n\nThe fourth Khurasanid ruler, Ahmad ibn Abd al-Aziz (1107-1128), was considered by Ibn Khaldoun to be the most remarkable of his family. He built ramparts around Tunis to defend it and secured guarantees of safe passage for travellers from the Banu Hilal.\n\nThe principality was annexed to the Hammadid kingdom in 1128, before it recovered its independence in 1148. After a period of Hammadid rule and a brief interregnum during which the people of Tunis sought to elect a new leader, Khurasanid rule was restored when Abu Bakr ibn Ismail was smuggled over the city walls at night in a basket. Seven months later he was drowned by his nephew Abd Allah ibn Abd al-Aziz, who succeeded him.\n\nUnder Khurasanid rule, the small independent kingdom resumed foreign trade relations and people enjoyed unprecedented prosperity. The city was embellished with new buildings, including a fortified palace, and the outer defenses were strengthened.\n\nIn 1159, the last Khurasanid ruler, Ali ibn Ahmad ibn Abd al-Aziz, was ousted by the Almohad Caliphate and sent into exile. The Almohads annexed the whole Ifriqiya to its empire, putting an end to Khurasanid rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "2382475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2382475", "title": "Kukulkan", "text": "Kukulkan\n\nKukulkan () (\"\"Plumed Serpent\", \"Feathered Serpent\"\") was the name of a Mesoamerican serpent deity. Prior to the Spanish Conquest of the Yucatán, Kukulkan was worshipped by the Yucatec Maya peoples of the Yucatán Peninsula, in what is now Mexico. The depiction of the Feathered Serpent is present in other cultures of Mesoamerica. Kukulkan is closely related to the deity Q'uq'umatz of the K'iche' people and to Quetzalcoatl of Aztec mythology. Little is known of the mythology of this Pre-Columbian era deity.\n\nAlthough heavily Mexicanised, Kukulkan has his origins among the Maya of the Classic Period, when he was known as \"Waxaklahun Ubah Kan\" (), the War Serpent, and he has been identified as the Postclassic version of the Vision Serpent of Classic Maya art.\n\nThe cult of Kukulkan/Quetzalcoatl was the first Mesoamerican religion to transcend the old Classic Period linguistic and ethnic divisions. This cult facilitated communication and peaceful trade among peoples of many different social and ethnic backgrounds. Although the cult was originally centred on the ancient city of Chichen Itza in the modern Mexican state of Yucatán, it spread as far as the Guatemalan Highlands.\n\nIn Yucatán, references to the deity Kukulkan are confused by references to a named individual who bore the name of the god. Because of this, the distinction between the two has become blurred. This individual appears to have been a ruler or priest at Chichen Itza who first appeared around the 10th century.\nAlthough Kukulkan was mentioned as a historical person by Maya writers of the 16th century, the earlier 9th-century texts at Chichen Itza never identified him as human and artistic representations depicted him as a Vision Serpent entwined around the figures of nobles. At Chichen Itza, Kukulkan is also depicted presiding over sacrifice scenes.\n\nSizeable temples to Kukulkan are found at archaeological sites throughout the north of the Yucatán Peninsula, such as Chichen Itza, Uxmal and Mayapan.\n\nIn the Yucatec Maya language, the name is spelt \"K'uk'ulkan\" () and in Tzotzil it is \"K'uk'ul-chon\" (). The Yucatec form of the name is formed from the word \"kuk\" \"feather\" with the adjectival suffix \"-ul\", giving \"kukul\" \"feathered\", combined with \"kan\" \"snake\" (Tzotzil \"chon\"), giving a literal meaning of \"feathered snake\".\n\nKukulkan was a deity closely associated with the Itza state in the northern Yucatán Peninsula, where the cult formed the core of the state religion. Although the cult of Kukulkan had its origins in earlier Maya traditions, the Itza worship of Kukulkan was heavily influenced by the Quetzalcoatl cult of central Mexico. This influence probably arrived via Putún Maya merchants from the Gulf Coast of Mexico. These Chontal merchants probably actively promoted the feathered serpent cult throughout Mesoamerica. Kukulkan headed a pantheon of deities of mixed Maya and non-Maya provenance, used to promote the Itza political and commercial agenda. It also eased the passage of Itza merchants into central Mexico and other non-Maya areas, promoting the Itza economy.\n\nAt Chichen Itza, Kukulkan ceased to be the Vision Serpent that served as a messenger between the king and the gods and came instead to symbolise the divinity of the state.\n\nEl Castillo, Chichen Itza served as a temple to Kukulkan. During the spring and fall equinoxes the shadow cast by the angle of the sun and edges of the nine steps of the pyramid combined with the northern stairway and the stone serpent head carvings create the illusion of a massive serpent descending the pyramid.\n\nAfter the fall of Chichen Itza, the nearby Postclassic city of Mayapan became the centre of the revived Kukulkan cult, with temples decorated with feathered serpent columns. At the time of the Spanish colonization, the high priest of Kukulkan was the family patriarch of the Xiu faction and was one of the two most powerful men in the city.\n\nThe cult of Kukulkan spread as far as the Guatemalan Highlands, where Postclassic feathered serpent sculptures are found with open mouths from which protrude the heads of human warriors.\n\nStories are still told about Kukulkan among the modern Yucatec Maya. In one tale, Kukulkan is a boy who was born as a snake. As he grew older it became obvious that he was the plumed serpent and his sister cared for him in a cave. He grew to such a size that his sister was unable to continue feeding him, so he flew out of his cave and into the sea, causing an earthquake. To let his sister know that he is still alive, Kukulkan causes earth tremors every year in July.\n\nA modern collection of folklore from Yucatán tells how Kukulkan was a winged serpent that flew to the sun and tried to speak to it but the sun, in its pride, burnt his tongue. The same source relates how Kukulkan always travels ahead of the Yucatec Maya rain god Chaac, helping to predict the rains as his tail moves the winds and sweeps the earth clean.\n\nAmong the Lacandon Maya of Chiapas, Kukulkan is an evil, monstrous snake that is the pet of the sun god.\n"}
{"id": "1131700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1131700", "title": "List of Bishops of Eichstätt", "text": "List of Bishops of Eichstätt\n\nList of the bishops of Eichstätt.\n\n"}
{"id": "17225554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17225554", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Greece", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Greece\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Greece is composed of \n\n\n\n\nAll exempt, i.e. directly subject to the Holy See, and part of Rite-specific particular churches \"sui iuris\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13085501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13085501", "title": "List of former Christian Science churches, societies and buildings", "text": "List of former Christian Science churches, societies and buildings\n\nThis is a list of former Christian Science churches, societies, and buildings. Following its early meteoric rise, the Christian Science Church suffered a steep decline in membership in the second half of the twentieth century. Though the Church is prohibited by the Manual of The Mother Church from publishing membership figures, the number of branch churches in the United States has fallen steadily since World War II. A 1992 study of the \"Christian Research Journal\" found that church membership had fallen from 269,000 in the 1930s to about 150,000. Some believe membership has fallen further since then, however current estimates for church membership vary widely, from under 100,000 to 600,000.\n\nDr. Stephen Barrett has reported that since 1971, the number of practitioners and teachers listed in the Christian Science Journal has fallen from about 5,000 to about 1,160 and the number of churches has fallen from about 1,800 to about 1,000.\n\nThe purpose of this list is to identify and quantify this decline in Christian Science institutions and those related to Christian Science, as well as catalog the buildings and spaces once used by the Christian Science Church. While it is impossible to get accurate membership figures, it is possible to determine the decline in institutions through official church publications and other sources.\n\nNotes:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Note\": Following the custom of early New England Congregational and Baptist churches, Churches of Christ, Scientist, in a city or town are numbered \"First\", Second\", Third\", etc. Societies are not numbered, however. Since all churches and societies are listed in the monthly Christian Science Journal, it is possible to determine the numbers of most but not all missing churches. For example, if a city has listings for only second and fourth churches, it is obvious that first and third are missing. As merged churches take the name of the older congregation, first could then be assumed to have dissolved, while third might have dissolved or merged with second. Fifth may have merged, dissolved, or never existed.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "204326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204326", "title": "Lumbini", "text": "Lumbini\n\nLumbinī (Nepali and Sanskrit: , \"the lovely\") is a Buddhist pilgrimage site in the Rupandehi District of Province No. 5 in Nepal. It is the place where, according to Buddhist tradition, Queen Mayadevi gave birth to Siddhartha Gautama in 563 BCE. Gautama, who achieved Enlightenment some time around 528 BCE, became the Buddha and founded Buddhism. Lumbini is one of many magnets for pilgrimage that sprang up in places pivotal to the life of the Buddha.\n\nLumbini has a number of temples, including the Mayadevi Temple and several others which are still under repair. Many monuments, monasteries and a museum, the Lumbini International Research Institute, are also within the holy site. Also there is the Puskarini, or Holy Pond, where the Buddha's mother took the ritual dip prior to his birth and where he had his first bath. At other sites near Lumbini, earlier Buddhas were, according to tradition, born, then achieved ultimate Enlightenment and finally relinquished their earthly forms.\n\nLumbini was made a World Heritage Site status by UNESCO in 1997.\n\nIn the Buddha's time, Lumbini was situated in east of Kapilavastu and southwest Devadaha of Shakya, an oligarchic republic. According to Buddhist tradition, it was there, that the Buddha was born. A pillar discovered at Rummindei in 1896 is believed to mark the spot of Ashoka's visit to Lumbini. The site was not known as Lumbini before the pillar was discovered. According to an inscription on the pillar, it was placed there by the people then in charge of the park to commemorate Ashoka visit and gifts. The park was previously known as Rummindei, 2 mi () north of Bhagavanpura.\n\nThe Sutta Nipáta (vs. 683) states that the Buddha was born in a village of the Sákyans in the Lumbineyya Janapada. The Buddha stayed in Lumbinívana during his visit to Devadaha and there preached the Devadaha Sutta.\n\nIn 1896, General Khadga Samsher Rana and Alois Anton Führer discovered a great stone pillar at Rummindei, according to the crucial historical records made by the ancient Chinese monk-pilgrim Xuanzang in the 7th century CE and by another ancient Chinese monk-pilgrim Faxian in the early 5th century CE. \nThe Brahmi inscription on the pillar gives evidence that Ashoka, emperor of the Maurya Empire, visited the place in 3rd-century BCE and identified it as the birth-place of the Buddha. The inscription was translated by Paranavitana: \n\nAt the top of the pillar, there is a second inscription by king Ripumalla (13-14th century CE), who is also known from an inscription at the Nigali Sagar pillar:\n\nA second pillar of Ashoka is located about 22 kilometers to the northwest of Lumbini, the Nigali Sagar pillar (with inscription), and a third one 24 kilometers to the west, the Gotihawa pillar (without inscription).\n\nAccording to Robin Coningham, excavations beneath existing brick structures at the Mayadevi Temple at Lumbini provide evidence for an older timber structure beneath the walls of a brick Buddhist shrine built during the Ashokan era (3rd-century BCE). The layout of the Ashokan shrine closely follows that of the earlier timber structure, which suggests a continuity of worship at the site. The pre-Mauryan timber structure appears to be an ancient tree shrine. Radiocarbon dating of charcoal from the wooden postholes and optically stimulated luminescence dating of elements in the soil suggests human activity began at Lumbini around 1000 BCE. The site, states Coningham, may be a Buddhist monument from 6th-century BCE. Other scholars state that the excavations revealed nothing that is Buddhist, and they only confirm that the site predates the Buddha.\n\nLumbini is in length and in width. The holy site of Lumbini is bordered by a large monastic zone in which only monasteries can be built, no shops, hotels or restaurants. It is separated into an eastern and western monastic zone, the eastern having the Theravadin monasteries, the western having Mahayana and Vajrayana monasteries. There is a long water filled canal separating the western and eastern zones, with a series of brick arch bridges joining the two sides along the length. The canal is serviced by simple outboard motor boats at the north end which provides tours.\n\nThe holy site of Lumbini has ruins of ancient monasteries, a sacred Bodhi tree, an ancient bathing pond, the Ashokan pillar and the Mayadevi Temple, where the supposed place of birth of Buddha is located. From early morning to early evening, pilgrims from various countries perform chanting and meditation at the site.\n\nA non-governmental organization named Samriddhi Foundation started in 2013 working extensively in the field of education and health specially in government schools of the area where underprivileged children study. A non-governmental organisation called \"Asia Pacific Exchange and Cooperation Foundation\" (APECF) backed by chairman of the Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist) and then Prime Minister Prachanda, the Chinese government and a UN group called \"United Nations Industrial Development Organization\" (UNIDO) signed a deal to develop Lumbini into a \"special development zone\" with funds worth $3 billion. The venture was a China-UN joint project. A broader 'Lumbini Development National Director Committee' under the leadership of Pushpa Kamal Dahal was formed on 17 October 2011. The six-member committee included Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist-Leninist) leader Mangal Siddhi Manandhar, Nepali Congress leader Minendra Rijal, Forest Minister Mohammad Wakil Musalman, among other leaders. The committee was given the authority to \"draft a master plan to develop Lumbini as a peaceful and tourism area and table the proposal\" and the responsibility to gather international support for the same.\nNipponzan Myohoji decided to build a Peace Pagoda in the park in 2001, which is visited by many different cultures and religions every day.\n\nBecause some Hindus regard the Buddha as an incarnation of Vishnu, thousands of Hindus have begun to come here on pilgrimage during the full moon of the Nepali month of Baisakh (April–May) to worship Queen Mayadevi as Rupa Devi, the mother goddess of Lumbini.\n\nLumbini was granted World Heritage status by UNESCO in 1997.\n\nNepal's central bank has introduced a 100-rupee Nepali note featuring Lumbini, the birthplace of Buddha. The Nepal Rastra Bank said the new note would be accessible only during the Dashain, Nepal's major festival in October 2013. It displays the portrait of Mayadevi, Gautam Buddha's mother in silver metallic on the front. The note also has a black dot which would help the blind recognise the note. The name of the central bank in Latin script would be printed on the note along with the date of printing in both the Christian Era and the Bikram Era. The new note is being issued following a cabinet decision 27 August.\n\nLumbini is a 10-hour drive from Kathmandu and a 30-minute drive from Bhairahawa.\nThe closest airport is Gautam Buddha Airport at Bhairahawa, with flights to and from Kathmandu.\n\nThe India border town of Sonauli in Maharajganj district is 1 hour drive from Lumbini and Nautanwa railway stations in India is just few kilometres away and nearest big city is Gorakhpur which is about 100km and is 4 hours drive from Lumbini.\n\nThe nearest airport to Lumbini, that is, the Gautam Buddha Airport in Bhairahawa, is currently undergoing upgradation work. This small domestic airport is soon expected to become an international airport, with latest deadline set for 2019. The upgradation work of the airport has also caught the eye of investors and hoteliers, and a series of new hotels are being constructed now in and around Lumbini, hoping to catch in on the expected international tourist boom once the airport upgradation work is complete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23798002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23798002", "title": "Makarasana", "text": "Makarasana\n\nMakarāsana () or Crocodile Pose is an asana.\n\nThe name comes from the Sanskrit words \"makara\" meaning \"crocodile\" and \"asana\" (आसन) meaning \"posture\" or \"seat\".\n\nThis is relaxation asana and a prone version of Savasana.\n\nTraditionally it is a relaxing posture. It is beneficial in almost all psychosomatic disorders. It is beneficial for respiratory organs, as well as digestive organs.\n\n\n\nCrocodile Pose Yoga\n"}
{"id": "24756896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24756896", "title": "Maya death gods", "text": "Maya death gods\n\nThe Maya death gods, known by various names, are two basic types of death gods who are respectively represented by the 16th-century Yucatec deities Hunhau and Uacmitun Ahau mentioned by Spanish Bishop Landa. Hunhau is the lord of the Underworld. Iconographically, Hunhau and Uacmitun Ahau correspond to the Gods A and B'.\n\nIn recent narratives, particularly in the oral tradition of the Lacandon people, there is only one death god (called \"Kisin\" in Lacandon), who acts as the antipode of the Upper God in the creation of the world and of the human body and soul. This death god inhabits an Underworld that is also the world of the dead. As a ruler over the world of the dead (\"Metnal\" or \"Xibalba\"), the principal death god corresponds to the Aztec deity Mictlantecuhtli. The \"Popol Vuh\" has two leading death gods, but these two are really one: Both are called \"Death,\" but while one is known as \"One Death,\" the other is called \"Seven Death.\" They were vanquished by the Hero Twins.\n\nThe two principal death gods count among the many were-animals and spooks (\"wayob\") inhabiting the Underworld, with the God A \"way\" in particular manifesting himself as a head hunter and a deer hunter.\n\n\"Kisin\" is the name of the death god among the Lacandons as well as the early colonial Choles, \"kis\" being a root with meanings like \"flatulence\" and \"stench.\" Landa uses another name and calls the lord of the Underworld and \"prince of the devils\" \"Hunhau\", a name that, recurring in early Yucatec dictionaries as \"Humhau\" and \"Cumhau\", is not to be confused with Hun-Ahau; \"hau\", or \"haw\", means 'to end' and 'to lay on its back (mouth up)'. Other names include \"Yum Kimil\", \"Lord of Death\" in Yucatán and \"(Ah) Pukuh\" in Chiapas. The name Hun Ahau (\"One Lord\") appears frequently in the Ritual of the Bacabs, but is never specified as a death god.\n\"Ah Puch\", though often mentioned in books about the Mayas, does not appear to be an authentic Maya name for the death god. (An Ah Puch is mentioned in the opening of the \"Book of Chilam Balam\" of Chumayel in passing as a ruler of the North, and one of the Xibalba attendants in the \"Popol Vuh\" is called Ahal Puh.)\n\nIn the \"Popol Vuh\", the Hero Twins descend to the \"Place of Fright\" (\"Xibalba\"), where a pair of Death Gods, Hun-Came (\"One-Death\") and Vucub-Came (\"Seven-Death\"), rule over a series of disease-bringing deities. They defeat the Death Gods and put restrictions on their cult.\n\nAccording to one of the earliest sources on Maya religion (Francisco Hernández 1545), Eopuco (i.e., Ah Pukuh) mistreated and killed the Bacab, who was resurrected three days later.\n\nThe skeletal death god Kisin plays a prominent role in Lacandon mythology, chiefly in the following tales:\n\nBoth God A and God A' figure prominently in the New Year rites depicted in the Dresden Codex. God A' probably corresponds to the death god Uacmitun Ahau in Landa's description of the New year rites. He presides over a year of great mortality. To ward off evil during this year, men would walk over a bed of glowing embers that possibly represented the fires of the Underworld. \n\nThe death god classified as God A always has a fleshless skull, usually with a skeletal body. He often occurs in the following contexts.\n\nWith varying hieroglyphic names and attributes, God A figures in processions and random arrays of were-animals and spooks (wayob). In connection with these apparitions, he tends to be depicted either as a headhunter or as deer hunter (see figure). On the grandiose Tonina stucco wall, the severed head is that of an enemy king. The death god's deer hunt has two sides. On the one hand, this deer hunt may metaphorically refer to a hunt for human victims. On the other hand, there also seems to be a connection with certain \"wayob\" shaped like deer but with the tail of a spider monkey. On the famous peccary skull from Copan, for example, such a deer \"way\" appears to be welcoming the death god returning from a hunt.\n\nTogether with the Rain Deity Chaac, God A is present at the jaguar transformation of a man (possibly a hero) who is usually shown as a baby, and who seems to disappear into the underworld.--\n\nApart from these contexts, on a Copan bench, the earth-carrying Bacabs are paired off with death gods A. This may relate to the fact that in Yucatán, one of the four Bacabs was called \"White Death\" (Zaccimi).\n\nThe other codical death god is God A', corresponding to Landa's Uac Mitun Ahau, and characterized by a black stripe over the eyes and a \"darkness\" infix in the forehead. Just like death god A, he figures among the Classic wayob. Instead of being a head hunter, however, God A' is a demonic apparition repeatedly shown in the illusionistic act of self-decapitation. His iconography shows considerable overlap with that of an anthropomorphic way (labeled \"Mokochih\") and of a demonic flying insect sometimes carrying a torch (possibly a blowfly, firefly, or wasp). In spite of the above, it has been suggested that the hieroglyphic name of God A' should be read as \"Akan\", a name otherwise only known as that of a 16th-century deity of alcoholic beverages.\n\nA text from the early colonial songbook of Dzitbalche states the Underworld (\"Miitnal\") to be opened and Kisin (\"Cizin\") to be liberated during the concluding twenty days of the year (\"Uayah-yaab\"). In the Classic period, the head of the skeletal God A serves as (i) the hieroglyph for the day Kimi, \"Death,\" corresponding to \"Kame\"' in Quiché, also the name of the paired rulers of \"Xibalba\" in the \"Popol Vuh\"; (ii) the hieroglyph for the number ten (\"lajun\"), perhaps because the verbal stem \"laj-\" means \"to end;\" (iii) a variable element in glyph C of the Lunar Series, registering one to six completed lunations, probably for the prediction of lunar eclipses. Apparently connected to this, God A can be depicted with the attribute of a crescent that seems to mark him as a lunar patron deity. A vignette of God A (or perhaps his female counterpart) illustrates the lunar eclipse tables of the Dresden Codex (see figure).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52808876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52808876", "title": "Maya pilgrimage", "text": "Maya pilgrimage\n\nPilgrimage is the travel from one's home to a sacred place of importance within one's faith. The journey itself holds a spiritual significance for the traveler because by participating in this ritual, they renew their faith and/or try to bring about a practical result. In the Maya faith, the believers may make a pilgrimage at any time of the year and to multiple places. Pilgrimages create networks that connect people and places over long distances, so as to transcend the limits of the local community as well as time. Maya pilgrimage displays many specific attributes unique to their culture even though they have been heavily influenced by the Catholic faith since the 15th century. In spite of that, they continue to make their pilgrimage to local shrine sites which are distinctly Maya. These ancient sites are used to communicate to deities or spirits and may be used to appeal to them for help. Though the images on these shrines may now represent Christian saints, aspects of the ancient Maya tradition still exists. The following will describe the fundamentals and purpose of Maya pilgrimage as well as the influence Christianity had on it.\n\nTo understand pilgrimage we must explore the locations where the Maya traveled. The natural places that attracted importance in Mesoamerican cultures were mountains, cliffs, boulders, caves, ruins, bodies of water, and islands. These places were usually isolated and remote so the Maya made journeys to visit them. Around 1500, Chichen Itza used to attract pilgrims from all the surrounding kingdoms to its large cenote; other pilgrims visited local shrines, such as those of Ix Chel and other goddesses on the islands off Yucatán's east coast. The Maya usually made shrines at these locations because they believed that the geographical significance created an easier place to communicate with spirits. Each location had one deity associated with it though the Maya could pray to any god they needed. For example, the \"gremio\" pilgrimage is held annually before each year's rainy season to appeal to the gods for a good season. Each day is dedicated to a different rain god and a different world direction. These ritual locales were identified archaeologically by finding the usual trappings associated with ritual. These included terraces, platforms, shrines, altars, incense, offerings, burials, and rock art. These items were created by the pilgrims to try to communicate with or to appease the gods or spirits in the area. Along with these certain geographical features, the site of the shrine often was a sacred place in which an apparition has appeared, inanimate objects were seen to have come to life, or a miracle has occurred. Nowadays, pilgrimages often involve reciprocal visits of the village saints (as represented by their statues), but also visits to farther-removed sanctuaries, as exemplified by the Q'eqchi' pilgrimages to their thirteen sacred mountains.\n\nThe purpose of these travels may be common place or they may have much spiritual meaning to the traveler. To the Maya, pilgrimage is a part of everyday life because they may make the journey to a sacred site for a commonplace reason. They can ask the deity to heal a sick family member, to have a good harvest that year, or they can ask for rain. Whatever the reason, the Maya can and will travel to these remote locations to appeal to the gods for assistance. And by making the right offering, the Maya may expect what they prayed for.\n\nTo travel, one only needs the funds and a need to talk to the spirits. Usually, the strongest in the village make the journey, but all ages and different socioeconomic statuses are welcome to. Previously, the Maya would only walk to each site but nowadays, there is often transportation provided though some still opt for the traditional walk along ancient Maya roads. If one cannot make the trip, they can also donate money, food, or other goods to actual participants, thus making the pilgrimage in spirit. In this way, they can expect to have their name read in front of the shrine. Sometimes, if it is a movable object, the object of veneration may be taken on a journey to other shrine sites so more pilgrims have access to it.\n\nBy making these pilgrimages, the participants gain several things. They gain the solidarity and bond among their village by going through this journey together. This creates solidarity between different villages because by making this expedition they gain an understanding among each other. The pilgrimage also creates lasting friendships through the generations because people of all ages are welcome to attend. Those who undertake the pilgrimage gain prestige and respect too. By participating in this ritual, they gain the acceptance and pride of their village.\n\nAnother outcome from pilgrimages, though less expected, is the spread of ideas. Patel argues that pilgrimage was the reason for the spread of the Quetzalcoatl or feathered serpent cult all about Mesoamerica. And through the spread of this cult, the cult in turn also spread the Mixteca-Puebla art style. This art style, also known as International style, was used at a number of shrine sites and seemed to increase communication with foreign pilgrims more because there was less emphasis on text and more on common symbols which could be understood by all. By meeting at these pilgrimages or shrine sites, the travelers would meet and exchange ideas and sometimes even goods. By this exchange, the ideas and goods could travel long distances without the need for one person to facilitate the spread.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest, these pilgrimages changed somewhat to incorporate Catholic celebrations and saints. Of course, some of the pilgrimages stayed devoted to their traditional Maya gods so Catholic priests could not be present because it was deemed heretical by the Catholic Church. This combination of Christian and Maya beliefs left scholars divided over whether the Maya could truly be considered Christians. Though they adhere to the classic forms of Christianity, like prayers, mass, worship of saints, and celebration of events on the Christian calendar, the Maya celebrate much like their ancestors did through dance, pilgrimages, and other pre-conquest rituals. Although the Maya have not always been Christian, they have used the cross since before the Spanish conquest. One such pilgrimage to the village of Xokén in Yucatán is centered around a large carved stone cross. The local Maya have inhabited this area since before the arrival of the Spanish and several 16th century Maya documents have written accords about the pilgrimage to this site. This cross is found to be placed at the end of an ancient Maya road that linked several of the ancient Maya Postclassic cities. Also interesting is that these cities were all at or near major sites of rebellion against the Spanish. Another site of pre-conquest crosses lies at Chumpon, where there is a myth that crosses appeared on trees of mahogany and spoke to the Maya. It was said that these crosses protected the Maya and helped them struggle against their enemy. This tradition of the cross symbol, though developed separately in the Maya and Christian societies, continues to link the two traditions together.\n"}
{"id": "2925581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2925581", "title": "Miranda Kerr", "text": "Miranda Kerr\n\nMiranda May Kerr (; born 20 April 1983) is an Australian model. Kerr rose to prominence in 2007 as one of the Victoria's Secret Angels. Kerr was the first Australian Victoria's Secret model and also represented the Australian department store chain David Jones. Kerr has launched her own brand of organic skincare products, KORA Organics, and has written a self-help book.\n\nKerr began modelling in the fashion industry when she was 13, winning the 1997 \"Dolly\" magazine model search competition. Since 2008, Kerr has consistently ranked on the \"Forbes\" list of highest earning models.\n\nKerr was born in Sydney and raised in Gunnedah, New South Wales. She is the daughter of Therese and John Kerr. She has a brother, Matthew, who is two years younger. In an interview, Kerr stated that her ancestry is mostly English, with smaller amounts of Scottish and French. During her childhood, Kerr \"raced motorbikes and rode horses on her grandmother's farm\". She describes her early life in the Australian countryside as \"very grounding ... there wasn't any pretentiousness and no one really cared what you were wearing. You could just be you.\"\n\nHer family moved to Brisbane to allow Kerr and her brother to experience city life. She graduated from All Hallows' School in 2000. Kerr studied nutrition and health psychology before pursuing modelling.\n\nAt age 13, Kerr entered and won the 1997 annual \"Dolly\" magazine/Impulse model competition. She was flown to Sydney a week before her 14th birthday to shoot for the magazine. Upon Kerr's win, local media expressed \"concerned outrage\" at her young age. The controversy raised concerns about the glorification of young girls within the fashion, beauty, and entertainment industries.\n\nSome media outlets claimed her \"Dolly\" shoot (including images of a 14-year-old Kerr in bathing suits) constituted a form of paedophilia. Of the press, Kerr said: \"In the media at the time they were trying to cling on to anything remotely to do with paedophilia. \"Dolly\" is a magazine for teenage girls, not for old men. And I was fully clothed! Doing a winter shoot! They just made something out of nothing.\"\nKerr signed to Chic Management's Sydney division. She received considerable commercial exposure after a series of beachwear ads predominantly for Australian surf chain Billabong, in which Kerr modelled surf brands Tigerlily, Roxy, Billabong Girls, and One Teaspoon. This increased her profile in the Australian and Asian markets, after which Kerr relocated to New York where she became co-owner of the Bowery Ballroom.\n\nIn New York, Kerr had a multitude of runway appearances and then signed with NEXT Model Management in early 2004. From there, she was booked for runway and print campaigns for labels, including Alex Perry, Baby Phat, Lisa Ho, Voodoo Dolls, Levi's, Bettina Liano, Nicola Finetti, L.A.M.B., Heatherette, Betsey Johnson, Trelise Cooper, Jets, John Richmond, Blumarine Swimwear, Neiman Marcus, Seafolly Swimwear, Anna Molinari, Rock and Republic, Roberto Cavalli, and Ober Jeans. Kerr was also booked for print in magazines such as \"Elle\", Australian \"Vogue\" and \"Harper's Bazaar\", and was featured in Australian television advertisements for clothing and hair-removal products.\n\nIn early 2006, Kerr appeared on the TV show \"Project Runway\", modelling clothes for contestant Daniel Vosovic's final collection. She signed a contract with cosmetics firm Maybelline New York. Along with several other Victoria's Secret and Next agency models, Kerr was also featured in a music video for the single \"Number One\" by artists Kanye West and Pharrell.\n\nFollowing her success with Maybelline, Kerr became the first Australian model to be offered a contract with Victoria's Secret in 2007. Upon her acceptance, she became the first ever Australian Victoria's Secret Angel joining models Alessandra Ambrosio, Karolína Kurková, Adriana Lima, Selita Ebanks, Izabel Goulart, and Heidi Klum. Before becoming an Angel in 2007, Kerr was already picked to become the successor of Alessandra Ambrosio as the face of PINK in 2006. Kerr's popularity continued to increase as one of the globally recognised Angels when she appeared in the Victoria's Secret 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 televised runway shows, which aired on four continents.\nIn 2007, Kerr signed on as the face of Californian fashion retailer Arden B. After debuting in their spring and summer ad campaigns, Kerr returned for their fall 2007 campaign, shot by fashion photographer Diego Uchitel. Following her modeling success with Victoria's Secret, Kerr made a small guest appearance in the CBS sitcom \"How I Met Your Mother\" alongside fellow Angels Adriana Lima, Marisa Miller, Alessandra Ambrosio, Heidi Klum and Selita Ebanks.\n\nIn 2008, Kerr became the new face of the fragrance Clinique Happy and signed a six-figure deal to be the new face of Australian department store David Jones, replacing model Megan Gale. She also appeared on the cover of British \"Harper's Bazaar\". Earning an estimated $3.5 million over the previous 12 months, \"Forbes\" placed Kerr at No. 10 on the list of the world's top-earning models.\n\nIn June 2009, Kerr posed naked, chained to a tree, for an issue of \"Rolling Stone\" Australia, to raise awareness for the endangered koalas. In August, Kerr released an inspirational self-esteem, self-help book, \"Treasure Yourself\". \"Treasure Yourself\" is aimed at female teenagers.In October, Kerr launched her own brand of organic skincare products, KORA Organics, with George Moskos, and became the face for the company. Kerr also shot a spring/summer ad campaign for XOXO. Kerr appeared in \"Forbes\" 2009 list of the world's highest-paid models, ranking at No. 9 with estimated earnings of $3 million. She left NEXT Model Management and signed with IMG Models. She then ended the year walking in the annual Victoria's Secret Fashion Show.\n\nKerr appeared in the 2010 Pirelli Calendar, photographed by Terry Richardson in Bahia, Brazil. Previously better known for her Victoria's Secret status rather than her high fashion work, Balenciaga is credited for launching her high fashion modelling career when casting directors Ashley Brokaw and Nicolas Ghesquière chose her to walk exclusively for the brand's spring 2010 runway show. It was her first designer fashion show, aside from Victoria's Secret, since 2007. A season later she walked for design company Prada for their fall 2010 collection in Milan alongside fellow Angels Doutzen Kroes and Alessandra Ambrosio. Kerr then modelled for campaigns for Prada and Jil Sander, and was shot by Steven Meisel for the cover of \"Italian Vogue\" for September. She appeared on the \"Forbes\" 2010 list of the world's highest-paid models, ranking at No. 9 where she earned $4 million.\nIn January 2011, Kerr became the first pregnant model for \"Vogue\" when featured in \"Vogue\" Australia, being six months pregnant at the time of the shoot. In March she hit the catwalk for Balenciaga's fall 2011 ready-to-wear collection as part of Paris Fashion Week, two months after giving birth. Kerr also posed nude for a 2011 \"Harper's Bazaar\" photo shoot. In October at Paris Fashion Week SS12, Kerr walked for Dior, Lanvin, Chanel, John Galliano, Stella McCartney, Viktor & Rolf and Loewe. Kerr was chosen to present the $2.5 million \"Victoria's Secret Fantasy Treasure Bra\" for their fashion show in November 2011. Kerr then featured in the Spring 2012 campaign for Bally alongside Julia Stegner.\n\nIn January 2012, she was named ambassador for Qantas. In March, Kerr walked for Chanel and Miu Miu at Fall/Winter Paris Fashion Week. Kerr was featured on the June cover of \"Numéro\" Tokyo, shot by Nino Muñoz. In August, Kerr appeared on the cover of \"Vogue\" Turkey and in November, was named the new face of high street brand Mango, replacing Kate Moss for its spring/summer 2013 campaign. Kerr placed at No. 7 in \"Forbes\" 2012 list of the world's highest-paid models with earnings of $4 million.\n\nIn March 2013, negotiations to renew her five-year contract with David Jones \"fell through,\" leading to a peaceful split between the two parties. The following month, it was reported that Kerr's three-year, $1-million contract with Victoria's Secret was not being renewed. Anonymous sources claimed Kerr had a \"difficult reputation\" and was not \"a big seller for VS\"; however, Kerr's camp stated she was unable to commit the necessary time to the brand. In response, Victoria's Secret chief marketing officer Ed Razek stated he had already invited Kerr to walk in that year's fashion show. Kerr headlined the April issue of \"Vogue\" Australia and the July issue of \"Vogue\" Korea.\n\nShe was ranked No. 2 in \"Forbes\" 2013 list of the world's highest-paid models, with estimated earnings of $7.2 million, which is $3.2 million more and a jump of five places in the list from the previous year. In October, Kerr was named the face of Austrian crystal house Swarovski for their fall 2013 campaign, and that December she starred in social shopping website ShopStyle's first national campaign.\n\nIn February 2014, Kerr became the face of Swedish clothing brand H&M. She then featured in high-profile campaigns for Reebok and Wonderbra. In March, Kerr opened and closed for Sonia Rykiel at Fall/Winter Paris Fashion Week. On 22 April 2014, Kerr released her first single online, featuring her and crooner Bobby Fox, in a cover of Elvis Presley's \"You're The Boss\". In July, Kerr became the face of the Escada fragrance, \"Joyful\", attending the launch at the brand's flagship Munich store. Kerr modelled for the covers of the May issue of \"Vogue\" Taiwan and the July issue of \"Vogue\" Australia. She was among the 50 models on the September cover of \"Vogue Italia\", celebrating the magazine's 50th anniversary. She was also prominently featured in the November, 15-year anniversary issue of \"Vogue\" Japan, shot by Mario Testino. Kerr ranked No. 3 on the 2014 \"Forbes\" list of highest earning models, earning an estimated $7 million.\n\nKerr was the cover model for the February 2015 issue of American \"Harper's Bazaar\", shot by Richardson. She also covered the March issue of Australian \"Harper's Bazaar\", shot by Kai Z Feng. In July, Kerr designed a jewelry line with Swarovski, having served as the face of the brand since 2013. Kerr spoke of the collaboration, \"I wanted it to be reflective of myself and my personality and who I am. And [Swarovski] really let me have full creative control. I knew what I wanted. I wanted it to be fine, and delicate and have meaning, and hopefully, inspiration.\" Kerr ranked No. 6 on the 2015 \"Forbes\" list of highest earning models, earning an estimated $6.5 million. She then appeared on the December cover of \"Vogue\" Thailand, the first Australian model to do so. She was also shot by Doug Inglish in a short video as part of \"LOVE\"'s annual advent calendar.\n\nKerr began 2016 fronting Riccardo Tisci's Spring/Summer campaign for Givenchy, alongside models including Joan Smalls, Natalia Vodianova and fellow Australian, Gemma Ward. Her January/February cover for Australian \"Harper's Bazaar\" sparked controversy, depicting a nude Kerr under the cover line \"What Lies Beneath.\" The cover was later pulled from the national supermarket chain, Coles. In March, Kerr was announced as the face of Joe Fresh's fall campaign. She also featured on international covers of \"Elle\", \"Harper's Bazaar\", \"Madame Figaro\" and \"L'Officiel\". In June, she opened Jeremy Scott's Resort 2017 show for Moschino, alongside veteran models including Devon Aoki and fellow Victoria's Secret Angels Chanel Iman and Alessandra Ambrosio. The same month, Kerr filmed a guest mentor role on cycle 10 of \"Australia's Next Top Model\". Kerr ranked No. 10 on the 2016 \"Forbes\" list of highest paid models, earning an estimated $6 million.\n\nIn February 2017, Kerr featured in a commercial for Buick, alongside Cam Newton, which aired during Super Bowl LI. In July, she appeared in a video campaign for Louis Vuitton entitled \"Connected Journeys\", celebrating the launch of the brand's Tambour Horizon smartwatch, which also featured celebrities including Jennifer Connelly, Doona Bae, Jaden Smith and Catherine Deneuve.\n\nIn February 2010, Kerr became the subject of global headlines when David Kiely, a banker at Macquarie Bank in Sydney, was caught viewing explicit photos of her on his computer while in the background of a colleague's live television interview with Channel 7. Within days, a clip of the interview uploaded onto YouTube received over 1.3 million hits. Eventually, Kiely was suspended and an internet campaign launched on his behalf. Kerr herself gave him her backing: \"I am told there is a petition to save his job, and of course I would sign it.\" The incident prompted a 100% increase in the number of Google searches for Kerr's name. A few days after the incident, Macquarie Bank announced that Kiely would keep his job.\n\nKerr has frequently been said to be one of the sexiest women in the world. Models.com ranks her number 4 on the Top 20 sexiest models. She has been ranked in \"FHM\"s '100 Sexiest Women' poll at No. 56 in 2009, No. 36 in 2010, No. 44 in 2011, No. 51 in 2012, No. 56 in 2013 and No. 48 in 2014. Kerr was named one of the \"100 Hottest Women of All-Time\" by \"Men's Health\" beating the likes of Audrey Hepburn, Grace Kelly and Sophia Loren. She was named \"Sexiest Woman Alive 2012\" by \"Esquire UK\". She has also regularly ranked on AskMen's list of \"Top 99 Women\" coming in at No. 19 in 2008, No. 46 in 2009, No. 10 in 2010, No. 5 in 2011, No. 25 in 2012, No. 6 in 2013 and No. 46 in 2014.\n\nKerr's model trademark is her dimples. Celebrity photographer Russell James stated:\n\nThe US has fallen in love with her. We love her because she has the most incredible girl-next-door look and she's also insanely beautiful. It means women are not intimidated by her looks and guys think they might be able to talk to her. It's a fantastic combination ... people want to be around her; she's fun on a shoot … and she's not stupid, which can be a very annoying trait among some models.\n\nModel agent Ursula Hufnagl described Kerr as \"the perfect endorsement\", citing her ability to \"truly sell a product\".\n\nIn 2003, Kerr dated finance broker Adrian Camilleri. Following an Australian Securities and Investments Commission investigation, Camilleri was found guilty on five counts of fraudulent behaviour from February 2003 to February 2004. A 2007 newspaper report claims that Kerr suffered financially \"after taking her boyfriend's financial advice\" but chose not to take legal action.\n\nFrom 2003 to mid-2007, Kerr dated Jay Lyon (Brent Tuhtan), the lead singer of the band Tamarama. Kerr starred in Tamarama's video clip for \"Everything To Me\".\n\nKerr began dating English actor Orlando Bloom in late 2007. In 2009, a gang of thieves known as the Bling Ring broke into Bloom's home. The group stole luxury brand clothing and jewelery. In this case, the ringleader allegedly wanted Kerr's Victoria's Secret lingerie. Kerr and Bloom announced their engagement in June 2010, and they were married the following month. Kerr gave birth to their son, Flynn Christopher Blanchard Copeland Bloom, on 6 January 2011. In October 2013, Kerr and Bloom announced that they had separated several months earlier, and intend to end their marriage. The divorce was official by the end of 2013.\n\nIn 2014, during an interview with \"GQ\" Kerr discussed bisexuality. \"I appreciate both men and women. I love the female body and truly appreciate the female form. I want to explore. Never say never!\"\n\nIn 2015, Kerr began dating billionaire Snapchat co-founder/CEO Evan Spiegel. In July 2016, Kerr announced her engagement to Spiegel, and they married in May 2017. Kerr wore a custom Dior wedding dress designed by Maria Grazia Chiuri that was inspired by Grace Kelly. In November 2017, Kerr announced she is expecting her second child and first child with Spiegel. On 7 May 2018, Kerr gave birth to a son named Hart Spiegel.\n\nIn June 2017, Kerr surrendered $8 million in jewellery, which was given to her by Malaysian financier Jho Low in 2014, to the US government amid an inquiry into the 1Malaysia Development Berhad scandal.\n\nIn response to claims that Kerr is a practicing Buddhist, she told \"The Telegraph\", \"I'm not Buddhist. I'm Christian. I pray every day. I meditate every day and I do yoga. I'm not religious, I'm spiritual. And praying is something my grandmother taught me as well. To pray and be grateful, have gratitude, is a big thing for me.\" She later told \"Into The Gloss\":\n\nI like to pray and I like to meditate. Doing just three minutes of prayer and a minimum of five minutes meditation twice a day sets the tone—like an arrow so that you're hitting your target. When I pray I always thank Mother Nature for all the beauty in the world; it's about having an attitude of gratitude. And then I pray to Christ to say, 'Thank you for this day and my family and my health,' and now that I'm older I've added, 'Please illuminate me. Please open my heart chakra. Open my aperture and uplift my consciousness so that I can be the best version of myself.'\n\nShe credits meditation, speaking with friends, and writing as ways of dealing with challenges such as the death of her then-boyfriend at age 15, and \"makes it a priority to pray about forgiving herself and others.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "158967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158967", "title": "Mon people", "text": "Mon people\n\nThe Mon ( or ; , ; , , ) are an ethnic group native to Myanmar's Mon State, Bago Region, the Irrawaddy Delta and the southern border with Thailand. One of the earliest peoples to reside in Southeast Asia, the Mon were responsible for the spread of Theravada Buddhism in Indochina. The Mon were a major source of influence on the culture of Myanmar. They speak the Mon language, an Austroasiatic language, and share a common origin with the Nyah Kur people of Thailand, they are from the Mon mandala (polity) of Dvaravati.\n\nThe eastern Mon include the current royal family of Thailand who are of Mon ancestry. The Mon assimilated to Thai culture long ago, yet the royal women of the Chakri dynasty perform and keep their Mon heritage alive in the Thai court. The western Mon of Myanmar were largely absorbed by Bamar society. They have worked to preserve their language and culture and to regain a greater degree of political autonomy. \n\nRecent studies have adduced evidence indicating that the Mon and Bamar share some common genetic ancestry. A genetic study done on Mon from Southern Myanmar and Bamar from Southern Myanmar showed a high prevalence of a particular glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) mutation not found among Khmers, Laotians or Thais.\n\nIn the Burmese language, the term Mon မွန် () is used. During the pre-colonial era, the Burmese used the term Talaing (တလိုင်း), which was subsequently adopted by the British, who also invariably referred to the Mon as Peguans, during the colonial era. The etymology of Talaing is debated; it may be derived from Telangana or Kalinga, a geographic region in southeast India. The use of \"Talaing\" predates the Burmese conquest of the Hanthawaddy Kingdom in the 1700s and has been found on inscriptions dating to the reign of Anawrahta in the 1000s. In 1930 and 1947, Mon ethnic leaders, who considered the term \"Talaing\" to be pejorative, petitioned against the use of the term. \"Talaing\" is now obsolete in modern Burmese, except in the context of specific historical terms, such as the eponymous song genre in the Mahagita, the corpus of Burmese classical songs. The Burmese term \"Mon\" is synonymous with the Burmese word for \"noble.\" In the Mon language, the Mon are known as the Mon (spelt မောန် or မန် and pronounced ), based on the Pali term Rāmañña (ရာမည), which refers to the Mon heartland along the Burmese coast. In classical Mon literature, they are known as the Raman (ရာမန်).\n\nThe Mon of Myanmar are divided into three sub-groups based on their ancestral region in Lower Myanmar: \n\nThe Mon were believed to be one of the earliest peoples of Indochina. They founded some of the earliest civilizations there, including Dvaravati in Central Thailand (whose culture proliferated into Isan), Sri Gotapura in central Laos (modern Sikhottabong, Vientiane Prefecture) and Northeastern Thailand, Hariphunchai in Northern Thailand and the Thaton Kingdom. They were the first receivers of Theravada missionaries from Sri Lanka, in contrast to their Hindu contemporaries like the Khmer and Cham peoples. The Mon adopted the Pallava alphabet and the oldest form of the Mon script was found in a cave in modern Saraburi dating around 550 AD. Though no remains were found belonging to the Thaton Kingdom, it was mentioned widely in Bamar and Lanna chronicles. The legendary Queen Camadevi from the Chao Phraya River Valley, as told in the Northern Thai Chronicle \"Cāmadevivaṃsa\" and other sources, came to rule as the first queen of Hariphunchai (modern Lamphun) kingdom around 800 AD.\n\nAfter 1000 AD onwards the Mon were under constant pressure. With the Tai peoples migrating from the north and Khmer invasions from the east, the Mons of Dvaravati gave their way to the Lavo Kingdom by around 1000 AD. Descendants of the Dvaravati Mon people are the Nyah Kur people of Isan. The Mon were killed in wars, transported as captives, or assimilated into new cultures. The Mon as an entity virtually disappeared in Chao Phraya Valley. However, Hariphunchai kingdom survived as a Mon outpost in northern Thailand under repeated harassment by the Northern Thai people.\n\nIn 1057, King Anawrahta of Pagan Kingdom conquered the Thaton Kingdom. The Mon culture and the Mon script were readily absorbed by the Burmese and the Mons, for the first time, came under Bamar rule. The Mon remained a majority in Lower Burma.\n\nHariphunchai prospered in the reign of King Aditayaraj (around early twelfth century), who allegedly waged wars with Suryavarman II of Angkor and constructed the Hariphunchai stupa. In 1230, Mangrai, the Northern Thai chief, conquered Hariphunchai and the Mon culture was integrated into Lanna culture. The Lanna adopted the Mon script and religion.\nIn 1287, the Pagan Kingdom collapsed, leaving the power vacuum. Wareru, who was born from a Mon mother and a Tai father, at Domwon Village in the Thaton District, went to Sukhothai for merchandise and later eloped with a daughter of the king. He established himself in Mottama and was proclaimed king of the Mon. The capital was later moved to Bago. His Hanthawaddy Kingdom (1287–1539) was a prosperous period for the Mon in both power and culture. The Mon were consolidated under King Rajathiraj (1383–1422), who successfully fended off invasions by the Bamar Ava Kingdom. The reigns of Queen Shin Sawbu (1453–1472) and King Dhammazedi (1472–1492) were a time of peace and prosperity.\n\nThe Bamar, however, regained their momentum at Taungoo in the early sixteenth century. Hanthawaddy fell to the invasion of King Tabinshwehti of Taungoo in 1539. After the death of the king, the Mon were temporarily freed from Bamar rule by Smim Htaw, but they were defeated by King Bayinnaung in 1551. The Bamar moved their capital to Bago, keeping the Mon in contact with royal authority. Over the next two hundred years, the Mon of Lower Burma came under Bamar rule.\n\nLower Burma became effectively war fronts between the Bamar, the Thai and the Rakhine people. Following King Naresuan’s campaigns against the Bamar, the Mon were, either forced or voluntarily, moved to Thailand. The collapse of Mon power propagated waves of migration into Thailand, where they were permitted to live in city of Ayutthaya. A Mon monk became a chief advisor to King Naresuan.\n\nBago was plundered by the Rakhine in 1599. Bamar authority collapsed and the Mon loosely established themselves around Mottama. Only with the unification of King Anaukpetlun in 1616 were the Mon again under the rule of the Bamar. The Mon rebelled in 1661 but the rebellion was put down by King Pye Min. Mon refugees were granted residence in western Thailand by the Thai king. The Mons then played a major role in Thai military and politics, as they would later established the Chankri Dynasty of Thailand. A special regiment was created for the Mon serving the Thai king.\n\nBamar power declined rapidly in the early eighteenth century. Finally, the Mon rebelled again at Bago in 1740 with the help of the Gwe Shan people. A Bamar monk with Taungoo royal lineage was proclaimed king of Bago and was later succeeded by Binnya Dala in 1747. With the French support, the Mon were able to establish an independent kingdom for 17 years before falling to Alaungpaya in 1757. Alaungpaya, the Bamar ruler U Aungzeya, invaded and devastated the kingdom, killing tens of thousands of Mon, including learned Mon priests, pregnant women, and children. Over 3000 priests were massacred by the victorious Bamar in the capital city alone. Thousands more priests were killed in the countryside. Alaungpaya's army was hugely supported by the British army. This time, Bamar rule was harsh. The Mon were largely massacred, encouraging a large migration to Thailand and Lanna.\n\nThe Mon rebelled at Dagon in the reign of Hsinbyushin of the Konbaung Dynasty and the city was razed to the ground. Again in 1814 the Mons rebelled and were, as harshly as before, put down. These rebellions generated a huge wave of migrations that the Child-Prince Mongkut proceeded to welcome the Mon himself. Mongkut himself and the Chakri dynasty of Thailand today are Mon descendants. Thongduang or Rama I was born in 1737 in the reign of King Boromakot of Ayutthaya. Rama I's father was Thongdi, a Mon noble serving the royal court of Ayuthaya.\n\nThe Mon in Thailand settled mainly in certain areas of Central Thailand, such as Pak Kret in Nonthaburi, Phra Pradaeng in Samut Prakan and Ban Pong, among other minor Mon settlements. Mon communities built their own Buddhist temples. Over time, the Mons were effectively integrated into Siamese society and culture, although maintaining some of their traditions and identity.\n\nBurma was conquered by the British in a series of wars. After the Second Anglo-Burmese War, the Mon territories were completely under the control of the British. The British aided the Mons to free themselves from the rule of the Burman monarchy. Under Burman rule, the Mon people had been massacred after they lost their kingdom and many sought asylum in the Thai Kingdom. The British conquest of Burma allowed the Mon people to survive in Southern Burma.\n\nThe Mon soon became anti-colonialists and, following the grant of independence to Burma in 1948, they sought self-determination. U Nu refused them this and they rose in revolt to be crushed again.\n\nThey have remained a repressed and defiant group in the country since then. They have risen in revolt against the central Burmese government on a number of occasions, initially under the Mon People's Front and from 1962 through the New Mon State Party. A partially autonomous Mon state, Monland, was created in 1974 covering Tenasserim, Pegu and Ayeyarwady River. Resistance continued until 1995 when NMSP and SLORC agreed a cease-fire and, in 1996, the Mon Unity League was founded.\n\nIn 1947, Mon National Day was created to celebrate the ancient founding of Hanthawady, the last Mon Kingdom, which had its seat in Pegu. (It follows the full moon on the 11th month of the Mon lunar calendar, except in Phrapadaeng, Thailand, where it is celebrated at Songkran).\n\nThe largest Mon refugee communities are currently in Thailand, with smaller communities in the United States (the largest community being in Fort Wayne, Indiana and the second largest being Akron, Ohio), Australia, Canada, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, and the Netherlands.\n\nThe Mon language is part of the Monic group of the Mon–Khmer family, closely related to the Nyah Kur language and more distantly related to Khmer. The writing system is Indic based. The Burmans adapted the Mon script for Burmese following their conquest of Mon territory during Anawrahta's reign.\n\nMon culture and traditional heritages includes spiritual dances, musical instruments such as the kyam or \"crocodile xylophone\", the saung harp and a flat stringed instrument. Mon dances are usually played in a formal theater or sometimes in an informal district of any village. The dances are followed by background music using a circular set of tuned drums and claps, crocodile xylophone, gongs, flute, flat guitar, harp, etc. Mon in Burma wear clothes similar to the Bamars. Those living in Thailand have adopted Thai style scarfs and skirts.\n\nThe symbol of the Mon people is the hongsa (, ), a mythological water bird that is often illustrated as a swan. The hongsa is the state symbol of Bago Region and Mon State, two historical Mon strongholds. It is commonly known by its Burmese name, \"hintha\" (, ).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "708715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=708715", "title": "Novitiate", "text": "Novitiate\n\nThe novitiate, also called the noviciate, is the period of training and preparation that a Christian \"novice\" (or \"prospective\") monastic, apostolic, or member of a religious order undergoes prior to taking vows in order to discern whether he or she is called to vowed religious life. It often includes times of intense study, prayer, living in community, studying the vowed life, deepening one's relationship with God, and deepening one's self-awareness. It is a time of creating a new way of being in the world. The novitiate stage in most communities is a two-year period of formation. These years are \"Sabbath time\" to deepen one's relationship with God, to intensify the living out of the community's mission and charism, and to foster human growth. The novitiate experience for many communities includes a concentrated program of prayer, study, reflection and limited ministerial engagement.\n\nNovices are not admitted to vows until they have successfully completed the prescribed period of training and proving, called the novitiate. In the Middle Ages novices typically would have dormitories in separate areas within a monastery; an early Cistercian monastery, Royal Monastery of Our Lady of the Wheel, founded in 1202, has this chamber clearly visible today.\n\nEarlier, different orders followed their own rules governing the length and conditions of the novitiate. At the time of the Reformation, the Council of Trent legislated the length and conditions by which anyone aspiring to become a monk is obliged to be a novice; the usual period is at least one year, depending on the aptitude of the candidate.\n\nThe novitiate, through which life in an institute is begun, is arranged so that the novices better understand their divine vocation, and indeed one which is proper to the institute, experience the manner of living of the institute, and form their mind and heart in its spirit, and so that their intention and suitability are tested.\n\nConscious of their own responsibility, the Novices are to collaborate actively with their Director in such a way that they faithfully respond to the grace of a divine vocation.\n\nMembers of the institute are to take care that they cooperate for their part in the work of formation of the Novices through example of life and prayer\n\nNovices are to be led to cultivate human and Christian virtues; through prayer and self denial they are to be introduced to a fuller way of perfection; they are to be taught to contemplate the mystery of salvation and to read and meditate on the sacred scriptures; they are to be prepared to cultivate the worship of God in the sacred liturgy; they are to learn a manner of leading a life consecrated to God and humanity in Christ through the evangelical counsels; they are to be instructed regarding the character and spirit, the purpose and discipline, the history and life of the institute; and they are to be imbued with love for the Church.\n\nA novice is free to quit the novitiate at any time, and the Novice Director, Formation Director, or Superior is free to dismiss him or her with or without cause in most communities.\n\nOften, in novicating, the vows are continuous through training.\n\nIn some novitiate communities, mostly monastic, the novice often wears clothing that is distinct from secular dress but is not the full habit worn by professed members of the community. The novice's day normally encompasses participation in the full canonical hours, manual labor, and classes designed to instruct novices in the religious life he is preparing to embrace. Spiritual exercises and tests of humility are common features of a novitiate. Some Roman Catholic communities encourage frequent confession and reception of Holy Communion by their novices.\n\nA Superior will often appoint an experienced member of the community to oversee the training of novices. This may be a Finally Professed Member, novice master or mistress who is responsible for the training of all novices.\n\nDifferent religious communities will have varying requirements for the duration of the novitiate. Often one must complete a postulancy before officially entering the novitiate. In many apostolic religious communities in the United States, postulancy or candidacy is one to three years. In the Eastern Orthodox Church, the novitiate is officially set at three years before one may be tonsured a monk or nun, though this requirement may be waived.\n\nThe term \"novitiate\" also refers to the building, house, or complex within a monastery or convent that is devoted exclusively to the needs of novices (sleeping, training, etc.).\n\n"}
{"id": "57749341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57749341", "title": "Occult science in medicine", "text": "Occult science in medicine\n\nOccult science in medicine is a book by the German doctor and theosophist Franz Hartmann (1838-1912), published in 1893. The aim of the book was to raise awareness amongst doctors and medical students about valuable medical knowledge from the past that has been ignored and catalogued as occult. The \"treasures of the past\", that the author is concerned with and on which he develops his argument, are mostly extracted from the work and perspective of Theophrastus Paracelsus. On a broad level, the book is a comparison between the medical knowledge, practices and system contemporary to the author and those predicated by Theophrastus Paracelsus and supported by Theosophy in general. Additionally, an implicit underlying theme of the book is the nature of science and knowledge - the author advocates against conservative science (i.e. the paradigm within which all the scientists, and in particular medical practitioners, conduct their research or perform their job; popular and superficial science) and contrasts it with progressive science (i.e. exploring new realms of knowledge without being constrained by contemporary fashionable theories). From a psychological perspective, there is a dualistic representation of the mind and of the body (in accordance with Descartes' dualism) in relation to the constitution of man, diseases and their place in contemporary medicine.\n\nThe book was written in the context of the author being an active member of the Theosophical Society and  a faithful adept of H.P. Blavatsky's viewpoint. The Theosophical Society had significant effects on Western religion, politics, culture and society and it played a significant role in the introduction of Asian religious ideas into the Western world. Furthermore, the book was published the same year Hartmann started editing a German Theosophical monthly journal called Lotusblüten (1893-1900).\n\nInterestingly, the book advocates for dualism in a time when this philosophical view of the mind was perishing. During the end of the 19th Century, scientific knowledge was advancing fast and the Mind-Body Dualism was being replaced by Materialism. This new perspective on the mind was advocated by British Empiricists during the 18th and 19th Century, who were carefully trying to dismiss the idea of an incorporeal, independent mind (i.e. so that they do not upset the Church) as being implausible. We are looking at a time period when people discovered that many brain processes were just reflexes and when Charles Darwin's Evolutionary Theory started to have great impact on Psychology and Philosophy. Notably, the principle of natural selection opposed the teleological view of the world that was established during Aristotle's time and further exploited by the Christian Church - this new concept had remarkable power for explaining directional and adaptive changes without the implication of a divine authority such as God. Consequently, the body starts to be seen as a mechanical device that strives for survival and the place of the soul and immaterial substances (i.e. the mind) has no longer a place in science. This is further supported by the emergence of Behaviourism (i.e. the opposing view to Mind-Body Dualism), with its earliest derivatives traced back to the late 19th century when Edward Thorndike pioneered the law of effect, a process that involved strengthening behavior through the use of reinforcement.\n\nHartmann's first work on Occultism was \"Magic, White and Black\" which appears to be the result of discussions with H.P. Blavatsky; this book can be considered the start of his argument for using the occult side of the nature to advance knowledge, science and medical practice. His second work was \"The life of Paracelsus and the Substance of his teachings\", which reveals that Hartmann was a physician with a profound understanding of the occult philosophy od Theophrastus Paracelsus. These two first publications of Hartmann can be seen as a precursor of soon to be published \"Occult science in medicine\" which is an unifying account of how the occult teachings of Theophrastus Paracelsus can be applied to attain true knowledge and advance contemporary medicine.\n\nThe book consists of five parts, with the most general topic discussed in \"Part 1\" and the most specific points being made in \"Part 5\". Each part is structured as a comparison between contemporary knowledge, science, medicine and their occult counterpart.\n\nEach part introduces a different topic with the heading describing what it is going to be approached:\n\n\nThe structure being employed makes the argument easy to follow and provides it with unity by implicitly supporting the links between the different parts.\n\nGiven that popular science has no information about the power that drives human development, nor about the nature or the origin of the human mind, it is understandable to look into other sources of information and consider what the Ancient sages taught about the principles that govern the constitution of man. This reasoning is employed as a justification for using occult knowledge.\n\nTheosophical literature summarizes Ancient knowledge regarding the above-mentioned principles as follows - the sevenfold constitution of man:\n\n\nIt is highlighted how Ancient medicine was a religious science, recognizing the source of universal life (\"Note\": The term religion does not refer to any of the existing systems of religious doctrines or forms of worship, but to the spiritual recognition of divine truth) and how popular modern medicine recognizes no real truth because it is concerned only with the lowest plane of existence (i.e. the physical body) by recognizing only the outcome of a blind force. Medicine cannot be separated from religion because the essence of the human being is its divine source (i.e. highest plane of existence) and not the physical body (i.e. lowest plane of existence). This is the recurrent dualistic presentation of the nature of man that is the basis of Hartmann's argument.\n\nTheophrastus Paracelsus is portrayed as the father of medicine and given as example of a physician that recognized the sevenfold constitution of man and used this knowledge to treat his patients.\n\nThe pillars upon which the practice of modern medicine, which is concerned only with the external plane of existence (i.e. the physical world), rests:\n\n\nPsychology is portrayed as a misnomer with Hartmann arguing that there can be no science of the soul as long as its existence is not acknowledged.\n\nThe author is an adept of Theophrastus Paracelsus' pillars of medicine:\n\n\nThe classification  of the causes of disease, acknowledged by modern medical science, is an enumeration of certain conditions in which disease may arise (e.g. Age, Heredity, Temperament, Mental and moral conditions, Temperature, Epidemic disease, Contagion, Malaria etc.).\n\nTheophrastus Paracelsus' classification is depicted as a better description of the causes of disease. He classifies diseases as those originating in the kingdom of matter (i.e. physical body), within the realm of the soul (i.e. energy) or in the sphere of the spirit (i.e. intelligence). As long as these three substances are in harmony with each other the individual is healthy; an imbalance will result in disease. The five causes of disease advocated by Theophrastus Paracelsus are:\n\n\nFrom a psychological perspective, the three functions of the soul depicted by Hartmann represent fundamental cognitive processes. \"Will\" is presented as being distinct from the selfish desire of the brain - it is a strong power which drives all voluntary and involuntary actions in the organism of man, whether or not we are conscious of it. \"Imagination\" is the power of the mind to form images. \"Memory\" is presented as the ability of the spirit to visit those places within the sphere of his mind where former experiences are preserved, and thus to bring them again within the field of consciousness. Furthermore, it is highlighted that the brain is just an instrument for perception - thus, Hartmann advocates for a spirit/mind that interacts with the body, using it as an instrument.\n\n\nBased on Theophrastus Paracelsus' doctrine, the author makes a distinction between:\n\n\nAccordingly, there are lower and higher order physicians. Theophrastus Paracelsus' five classes of physicians are:\n\n\nIn the final part, the author reflects on the progress of science since the time of Theophrastus Paracelsus and concludes that even though knowledge has been advanced, it does not mean that human kind is wiser. He believes that more spiritual knowledge is needed in order to attain wisdom. Furthermore, in order to attain this spiritual knowledge, the author encourages his readers to get to know their constitution and the nature of the higher power that resides in them.\n\nHartmann supports Theophrastus Paracelsus' view that wisdom is not the intellect of the terrestrial, but the understanding of the celestial mind. Thus, he encourages spiritual self-knowledge and the use of the higher order knowledge to advance the field of medicine.\n\nIn 1894, \"Occult science in medicine\" is seen as an important manuscript given that it provides access to the system of medicine of Paracelsus in times when materialistic empiricism in Medicine seems to approach its end while the importance of the mind (i.e. thought) is beginning to be recognized again in the cure of disease. Nevertheless, \"The Physician of the future\" chapter is seen as the weakest part of the book because the priest becomes discredited as a physician. In general, the book is seen as superior to contemporary materialistic medical science which is portrayed as being far from any intelligent appreciation of the ideas portrayed by Hartmann.\n\nEvaluating the theosophical situation today reveals that theosophy is not dying out, but rather, experiencing a renaissance. Given such circumstances, it is not surprising that Franz Hartmann's work is republished and appreciated in the 21st Century, with appreciative comments from the readers.\n"}
{"id": "99553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99553", "title": "Outline of Hinduism", "text": "Outline of Hinduism\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Hinduism:\n\nHinduism – predominant and indigenous religious tradition of the Indian Subcontinent. Its followers are called Hindus, who refer to it as \"\" (a Sanskrit phrase meaning \"the eternal law that sustains/upholds/surely preserves\"), amongst many other expressions. Hinduism has no single founder, and is formed of diverse traditions, including a wide spectrum of laws and prescriptions of \"daily morality\" based on the notion of karma, dharma, and societal norms. Among its direct roots is the historical Vedic religion of Iron Age India and, as such, Hinduism is often called the \"oldest living religion\" or the \"oldest living major religion\" in the world.\n\n\n\nHistory of Hinduism\n\n\n\n\nHindu philosophy\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42618771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42618771", "title": "Principality of Chaghaniyan", "text": "Principality of Chaghaniyan\n\nThe Principality of Chaghaniyan, known in Arabic sources as al-Saghaniyan, was a local Iranian dynasty, which ruled the Chaghaniyan region from the early 7th-century to the late 8th-century. The rulers of the region were known by their titles of “Chaghan Khudah” (Middle Iranian; \"Čagīnīgān Xvaday\", meaning “the lord of Chaghaniyan”).\n\nDuring the early 7th-century, Chaghaniyan became independent from Hephthalite rule, and came under the control of local rulers known as the “Chaghan Khudah”. During the Muslim conquest of Persia, the Chaghan Khudah aided their kinsmen, the Sasanians, during their struggle against the Rashidun Arabs. However, the Arabs, after having dealt with the Sasanian Empire, began focusing on the local rulers of Khorasan, which included the Chaghan Khudah and many other local rulers. In 652, the Chaghan Khudah, along with the rulers of Talaqan, Guzgan, and Faryab, aided the ruler of southern Tokharistan against the Arabs. Nevertheless the Arabs managed to emerge victorious during the battle. However, the Rashidun Caliphate soon fell into civil war, and was conquered by another Arab family, who founded the Umayyad Caliphate. During the early 660s, the Chaghan Khudah, known as Turantash, sent an envoy under his chancellor Pukarzate to Varkhuman, the Sogdian king of Samarkand.\n\nIn 705, the Arab general Qutayba ibn Muslim managed to make the Chaghan Khudah, whose name is mentioned as Tish, acknowledge Umayyad authority. The real reason for Tish's submission, however, was to gain aid in defeating the local rulers of Akharun and Shuman in northern Tokharistan, who had been making incursions against him. Qutayba shortly defeated the two rulers, and forced them to acknowledge Umayyad authority.\n\nHowever, in 718, Tish, along with Gurak, the king of Samarkand, Narayana, the king of Kumadh, and Tughshada, the Bukhar Khudah of Bukhara, sent an embassy to the Tang dynasty of China, where they asked for aid against the Arabs. Nevertheless, the principality of Chaghaniyan still aided the Arabs against the Turgesh, and were present at the side of the Arabs during the Battle of the Baggage, where they were defeated and the Chaghan Khudah was killed. After the battle, most of Khorasan except Chaghaniyan remained under Arab control. Under Nasr ibn Sayyar, Chaghaniyan was once again a vassal of the Umayyad Caliphate. After this, the Chaghan Khudahs begin to fade from the sources. In the late 8th-century Chaghaniyan fell under the direct control of the Abbasid Caliphate, which had succeeded the Umayyad Caliphate in 750. The Muhtajids, an Iranian dynasty which in the 10th-century gained control over Chaghaniyan, may have been descended from the Chaghan Khudahs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49444361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49444361", "title": "Qari Ghulam Rasool", "text": "Qari Ghulam Rasool\n\nQari Ghulam Rasool (1935–2014) was a great Qari and an Islamic scholar of his time who was from Pakistan. He was born in 1935 in Lahore. He received education from famous seminary Darsgah Hizbul Ehnaf. He learned Qirat from Qari Abdul Malik and later on became famous across the globe due to God-gifted qualities. He was awarded numerous awards besides a presidential award. He had recited the Quran at PTV and Radio Pakistan for more than 50 years.\n\nHe also taught at Jamia Nizamia and later on established his own five madaris. He was a close friend of Shah Ahmad Noorani and Abdul Sattar Khan Niazi.\n\nHe died on 9 March 2014.\n"}
{"id": "26730683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26730683", "title": "Ryukyuan religion", "text": "Ryukyuan religion\n\nThe Ryukyuan religion, Ryukyu Shinto (琉球神道), Nirai Kanai Shinkou (ニライカナイ信仰), or Utaki Shinkou (御嶽信仰) is the indigenous belief system of the Ryukyu Islands. While specific legends and traditions may vary slightly from place to place and island to island, the Ryukyuan religion is generally characterized by ancestor worship (more accurately termed \"ancestor respect\") and the respecting of relationships between the living, the dead, and the gods and spirits of the natural world. Some of its beliefs, such as those concerning \"genius loci\" spirits and many other beings classified between gods and humans, are indicative of its ancient animistic roots, as is its concern with , or life essence.\n\nOver time, Ryukyuan religious practice has been influenced by Chinese religions (Taoism, Confucianism, and folk beliefs), Buddhism and Japanese Shinto. One of its most ancient features is the belief , the spiritual superiority of women derived from Amamikyu, which allowed for the development of a \"noro\" (priestess) system and a significant following for \"yuta\" (female mediums or shamans).\n\nRyukyuan religion, with its focus on demonstrating respect of and reverence toward ancestors, is naturally based in the family home. The oldest female relative acts as a primary celebrant, officiating rituals concerning ancestors, household gods and those family members who live both in and outside the home. Daily incense offerings are made and prayer \"reports\" are delivered aloud, in which each family member is described for the benefit of the incorporeal being addressed. The oldest female relative is also responsible for cleaning and upkeep of the \"buchidan\" (ancestors altar), \"hinukan\" (hearth god and his home on the hearth), and \"furugan\" (bathroom god).\n\nThe Ultimate Ancestors, those from whom all life springs, are \"Utin\" (\"Heaven\", the father), \"Jiichi\" (\"Earth\", the mother), and \"Ryuuguu\" (\"Sea\", the place from which we were born). They originate and exist, along with \"kami\", or the gods of the world, during the \"Usachi-yu\", the \"Ancient Age\". They are held in highest regard as the originators of all things and are worshiped in the community's . Ancestors living in the distant past, but not in the Usachi-yu – that is, ancestors living more than about 25 generations ago but not living with the gods at the beginning of time – are said to be living in \"Nakaga-yu\", the \"Middle Age\". These ancestors are worshipped as collective spirits called \"futuchi\" (\"futuki\"), whose worship is focused usually in Buddhist temples. Other, more immediate ancestors are those who lived between the present day and the twenty-fifth generation into the past, a time period called \"Ima-ga-yuu\", the \"Present Age\". They are those enshrined in the family home's \"buchidan\", and it is these ancestors who visit on special occasions in the home and at the \"haka\" (\"family tomb\", v.inf). (Matayoshi/Trafton, 39, 41)\n\nThe is the primary focus of ancestor worship. It is a space, usually a small closet, dedicated to the family altar and various memorial plaques featuring the names of ancestors. Incense and alcohol are offered to ancestors at the butsudan. In the Ryukyus the \"buchidan\" or does not house a statue of Buddha but memorial tablets inscribed with the names of the family ancestors. The butsudan is placed in a room called the . The practice of placing ancestral tablets in the \"butsudan\" is believed to derive from the influence of Confucianism.\n\nThe \"butsudan\" is passed from generation to generation, first son to first son and only those who have inherited the parental house and carried on the main line possess a \"butsudan\". The \"butsudan\" serves as the family gathering place on special holidays, e.g., New Year's and Obon. Normally the butsudan receives offerings of incense, tea, water and cooked rice. During festivals the \"butsudan\" is lavishly adorned with offerings of pineapple, mango, apples, tangerines, exotic tropical fruits, sugar cane, and rice cakes. During these times, families may occasionally offer alcohol in the form of sake or awamori.\n\nThe \"hinukan\" is a hearth god, represented by three small stones and usually located in the kitchen. As his name suggests, he is essentially a fire god, but more specifically is the guardian of the \"family fire\"; his worship is officiated by the family matriarch. A community hinukan, by extension, is the guardian of sacred communal fire; his worship is officiated by the community priestess (\"noro\", v. inf). The hinukan, while he inhabits the family home, doesn't call it his own home, and in fact leaves to return to his home to celebrate the solar New Year (v.inf.). He may be compared with Kamui Fuchi, hearth goddess of the Ainu Religion.\n\nThe \"fuuru nu kami\", or \"god of the toilet\", is the family protector of the area of waste. The pig toilet, lacking this benevolent god, could become a place of evil influence and potential haunting (such as by an \"akaname\", or other negative spirits, welcomed by the accumulation of waste matter, rejected and abandoned by the human body). Because he is considered a primary household god, the \"fuuru nu kami's\" habitat (the bathroom) is kept clean and is perceived to warrant deferential behavior. Reports on the family's status are delivered regularly to the \"fuuru nu kami\". He shares traits with the Korean bathroom goddess, Cheukshin.\n\nTraditionally, periodic gatherings of the extended family occur at the family \"haka\", or \"tomb\" (v. inf. for information concerning the traditional dates of these gatherings). The tombs resemble houses, complete with a courtyard (\"naa\"), family name markers, and \"porch\" upon which offerings are arranged. A common tomb style in many areas is the so-called turtle-back tomb (\"kamekokata\"), whose roof is shaped as the carapace of a tortoise. These tombs have variously been described as \"horseshoe-shaped\" or \"omega-shaped\" tombs by Westerners, but Okinawans believe they are shaped like a womb; the dead \"return to the source\". Another very common type is the gable tomb (\"hafukokata\"), which appears like a small Okinawan house. Though not \"haka\", the royal tombs of the Ryūkyū Kingdom are located at Tamaudun.\n\nInside the tomb is stored the cremated remains (\"funishin\") of several generations of family members. Especially important is the thirty-third year after a relative's death; at this point, the deceased individual is believed to have taken their place with all their ancestors in the afterlife. During a typical extended family gathering at the tomb, incense, food, offering, and prayers are offered to ancestors, and then a picnic is enjoyed by those in attendance. Although responsibilities may vary on a case-by-case basis, generally it is the oldest male of a family whose financial responsibility is upkeep for existing tombs and establishment of new tombs if anything should happen to the old, including becoming too full.\n\nVarious taboos exist in relation to the tomb. It is rude to point at a tomb, speak loudly concerning the dead around a tomb, or take pictures of a tomb without expressed permission. It is considered dangerous to desecrate a tomb with graffiti, by disturbing offerings such as flowers, or by damaging the tomb in any way. Also considered dangerous may be to approach a tomb without proper authority (such as relation to the family) or to visit a tomb at night.\n\nThe most-often worshiped gods are undoubtedly those of the home; however, especially powerful deities are revered by the community as a whole, and certain legendary creatures exist who are not worshiped, but are respected.\n\nCommunity worship most often involves that of marine and mountain deities, who determine the success of agricultural, shipping/trade, and fishing pursuits. Community worship also includes chthonic spirits inhabiting rocks, trees, caves, and springs, who are respected with deference in their province (such as by not moving the rock, harming the tree, or entering the grove/cave) and receive offerings.\n\nEspecially old or powerful ancestors act as local deities and inhabit an \"utaki\", or \"sacred place\". This is usually a grove, a spring, or a cave located near the village, entrance to which is sometimes restricted and sanctity of which is always respected. The most sacred spot in an utaki is the \"ibi\" and the area around it (the \"ibi nu mae\"). Only the \"noro\" may enter the \"ibi\" to make offerings and prayers on the \"ibi nu mae\".\n\nExamples of famous \"utaki\" are \"Sefa-utaki\" (the most sacred official place in the Ryūkyū Kingdom). Legend has it that the goddess Amamikyu(天久神), who gave birth to the islands of the Ryukyus, descended here. From this sacred grove, people prayed to Kudaka Island, Okinawa's most sacred place. Once the inaugurations of the high priestess of the Shuri Court, \"kikoe-ōgimi\", took place there.\n\nAs mentioned, Kudaka Island is the site of many \"utaki\". Other especially sacred places in and around Okinawa include the area around Nakijin Castle and \"Gusukuyama\" (or \"Tacchu\"), a high, steep peak on Ie-shima.\n\nThe line between \"kami\", ancestors, and other spirits may be faint in community ancestor worship, such as when especially ancient ancestors are worshipped as with the same respect as other, never-corporeal \"kami\". This is because \"kami\" is a broad term, meaning not only \"god\" but less specifically \"concentration of spiritual energy\"; thus, in the example of the especially ancient ancestors, they are treated as \"kami\" because of their power. Also, when a \"noro\" assumes the form of a god, she becomes the locus of this great energy, and thus is a \"kami\". (Sered)\n\nNegative spirits in Okinawa are often referred to as \"ghosts\" in English, although they are not necessarily \"ghosts\" in the Western sense of the world (wandering souls of the dead). Those believed to visibly appear are usually the spirits of those who met especially horrible end or those who didn't receive proper funerary rites. As World War II fighting in Okinawa was particularly protracted and heavy, there are many tales of ghosts and haunted places with military-related origin stories. Other negative spirits are incorporeal chthonic beings classifiable between spirits of the dead and gods.\n\nNegative spirits are believed to be irritated or angered by human presence. Negative spirits are responsible for accidents, illnesses, and deaths befalling those who have had contact with their habitation. Thus even today, haunted places are especially sacrosanct, to the point that many people refuse to develop perfectly suited properties or live next to beautiful areas because they have been judged to be inhabited by a negative spirit. An especially famous example of this is the half-finished Nakagusuku Hotel ruins that stand within walking distance from Nakagusuku Castle in Kitanakagusuku, which was abandoned during its construction as the result of several deaths both on- and off-site and still stands as it was; most Okinawan people will not go near the hotel.\n\nPlaces are determined to be haunted if people in contact with the areas encounter severe misfortunes. In this case, a \"yuta\", or several \"yuta\", are usually contracted to contact the offended spirit and determine both how the offending individual can recompensate for their trespass, and whether or not the spirit can be brought to terms with the aims of the individual for the spirit's area. Though the spirit can almost always be pacified, it many times cannot accept the disturbance of its space, and thus the area is marked by the community as forbidden territory for development or travel. A \"yuta\", a Buddhist monk, or a Shinto priest may be called upon to banish the spirit.\n\nThe \"kijimunaa\" (or \"bunagaya\") is one of the most famous of Okinawa's magical creatures. A sprite (Japanese \"yōsei\"), the kijimunaa resembles a short young boy and features bright red hair. They look somewhat like a Troll doll. Some say that only children or the pure of heart can see the kijimunaa. They may or may not be seen accompanied by fire. They live in the tops of Okinawa's \"gajumaru\" (ガジュマル, \"banyan\") trees; they are especially famous in the Yomitan area, where their images can be seen in many places. Kijimunaa are known for playing harmless pranks. Kijimunaa can also be helpful, but they are quick to change their minds. They enjoy fishing and eating fish. The only thing they fear is the octopus. Belief in kijimunaa is representative of the spiritual power of trees in the Ryukyu belief system.\n\nAnother of the most famous Ryukyuan creatures is the \"shisa\" (\"lion dog\"). Shisa statuary is used for its ability to ward evil from a place. Its appearance and function is Chinese in origin.\n\nRepresentative of the power of the sea are dragons, who often make appearances in Ryukyuan legend. In the \"Irosetsuden\", for instance, dragons display powers like those of gods, and live in their own undersea kingdom. The traditional Ryukyuan conception of dragon is largely similar to that of China, though myths concerning an undersea kingdom of powerful reptilian beings are common to Central and East Asian cultures (see Reptilian humanoids in mythology).\n\n, or \"spirit\", is a key concept in Ryukyuan religion. Mabui is the essence of the self, somewhat like the soul and somewhat like mana. Just as the soul in many traditions is immortal, so is mabui; also like the soul, one's mabui is one's defining characteristic, unique to the individual. The mabui of a dead person may cling to a living person, requiring a ritual of separation (\"mabui-wakashi\") or a conveyance from the place of death to a proper resting place (\"suukaa\"). In a case of sudden death, an especially complicated ritual takes place in order to separate the mabui from where it is clinging (as though it still lived) and move it to where it can find rest.\n\nLike mana, mabui is transferable by contact: if a person is left their grandmother's wedding ring, that ring – as an effect often in contact with the grandmother and only the grandmother – will have taken on the mabui of the grandmother. One's likeness, whether rendered by photograph or any other medium, also contains one's mabui. Due to their young age, the mabui of children is not as attached to their physical body as that of old people.\n\nMabui can leave the body, resulting in with various physical results. The 2002 Okinawan film \"Hotel Hibiscus\" portrays many traditional Ryukyuan beliefs; among them, that of the loss of mabui. In the film, a young girl named Meiko loses her mabui after a fight with her father and a peaceful encounter with the ghost of her dead aunt. She becomes unresponsive, only coming out of her trance-like state to talk again with her dead aunt. This portrayal of the loss of mabui is somewhat accurate.\n\nMabui can be lost as the result of fright, stress, loneliness, or helplessness, any circumstances in which a person suffers from a sudden shock or a lack of psychological/physical resources. A coma-like trance is one manifestation of the loss of mabui, but an extreme one. It seems that the loss of one's mabui manifests itself first psychologically, as depression or anxiety, and then physically as general lethargy or actual illness. Poor relationships – be they with the living, the dead, or incorporeal powers – also may result in the loss of mabui.\n\nTwo rituals are performed in relation to mabui: \"mabui-gumi\" if one has lost their mabui, and \"uchatou-mintou\" to stave off mabui loss. All prayers are offered aloud.\n\nPerformed as the result of the loss (or potential loss) of mabui. After being startled, while scared, or even after a sneeze, one says or has recited over them \"\"Mabuya, mabuya, utikuyou\" or simply \"Mabuya, mabuya\"\". One can also regain one's lost mabui simply by doing what one habitually does: sitting in one's favorite chair, sleeping in one's own bed, wearing favorite old clothing, or handling familiar, personal objects. More formally, a special ceremony can be performed by the family's matriarch at the place of supposed loss of the mabui. First, prayers are addressed to ancestors and household gods at the home, and then the place of supposed loss is visited. A fruit offering, an incense offering, and prayers of thanks are all addressed to ancestors. Then three stones from the place are tied up in clothing worn during the loss, and the matriarch returns home to make an offering of the three stones and a special meal of rice balls to the ancestors.\n\nIf the case is especially serious, a \"yuta\" (v.inf.) may be involved in the retrieval of one's mabui.\n\nThis daily ritual prevents loss of mabui, as well as prevents possession by foreign spirits, or \"kakaimun\". It involves a morning offering of water and tea to household gods, along with prayers for a safe and easy day. In the evening, prayers are offered that describe the good works and characteristics of all family members. Incense is usually offered as well.\n\n\"Kaminchu\" (or \"kamigutsu\", , , \"god people\") are people specializing in Ryukyuan magico-religious practices, usually those involving incorporeal beings. Their social roles correspond to those of a shaman in that, depending upon their classification, they serve as mediums, especially influential prayer and offering performers, healers/guardians, precognosticators/fortune-tellers/diviners, and sources of mediation both within the living community and between material and immaterial beings. Although they may assist in the transference of the mabui of the deceased, they do not act as psychopomps, because they do not help guide a spirit out of this world and into the afterlife.\n\nIn the Okinawan language, \"shiji\" means the ability to sense, communicate with, and direct the power of ancestors gods. Although men may display some of these abilities and often assist in rituals, women are the primary interlocutors between humans and spirits or gods in the Ryukyuan religion, therefore are highly respected.\n\nThe \"noro\" or \"nuuru\" priestesses are the oldest \"kaminchu\" in the Ryukyu Islands. They communicate with, make offerings to, and, at times, channel ancestors, local gods and more powerful deities. Their primary duty is to officiate at communitywide (that is, \"official\") festivals and rituals. These rituals take place in a sacred space, usually in a grove (or \"ong\"), at a cave or by the sea. Men were forbidden to enter these sacred spaces (v.s. for more information concerning community worship). Another of their primary functions was the protection and fueling of the communal fire, which was used to establish new households.\n\nThe \"noro\" also would perform divination to determine the best days for sacred ceremonies, for social functions such as marriage or funeral, and for agricultural pursuits (Kerr 33). Land was set aside for the use of the \"noro\", who when local was called \"niigami\" and was the sister of the \"nitchu\", the head of the oldest (or, later, most powerful) family in the community (called \"niiya\"). The \"noro\" was expected to remain a virgin. She was aided in her sacerdotal duties by a girl from every household in the community. The symbols of the \"noro\" are her white vestments and beads, often including a sacred, comma-shaped stone, the \"magatama\".\n\nOn smaller islands, idiosyncratic \"noro\" traditions persist. On Kudaka, for instance, people believe in a \"priesthood of all women\", and all women serve the gods from age 31 to age 70. Their initiation rites, \"Izaiho\", was held every twelve years, and women were initiated between ages 31 and 40. Due to the absence of women of the representing age the last Izaiho was held in 1978.\n\nAccording to George Kerr in his \"Okinawa: the History of an Island People\", the \"noro\" was at one time a priestess-queen, wielding both political and spiritual power within her community. Chinese records of the Northern Wei dynasty described the political power of the \"noro\" in much the same way Caesar described that of the Druids: influence over spiritual powers was used to wield judicial and martial influence over men. One \"noro\", Pimeku, even attempted to forge a kingdom of independent islands (Kerr 31). The Ryukyu Islands are described as queen islands in Japanese records as well. Gradually, however, the \"noro's\" role as ritual leader and religious consultant became independent of her role as political leader, perhaps as the result of sharing more and more power with her male relatives in order to deal with an increasing demand for her ritual services.\n\nThe \"noro\" became more priestess than queen, though they still possessed some measure of political influence, as they eventually came to wield royally sanctioned religious authority through appointments first begun by the Ryūkyū king Shō Shin (Kerr 110). These appointments were primarily from local powerful families, to serve at their local sacred sites throughout the main island of Okinawa; this system of appointment also served Miyako Island and the Yaeyama Islands. The system was an attempt to bring under royal control the autonomous centers of power that were the \"noro\" priestesses. The association of the \"noro\" with political power persisted even until the late 19th century in the outer islands (Kerr 32).\n\n\"Noro\" today can be seen on Okinawa at many festivals, most notably in Shioya in Ogimi Village and Iheya during the \"Ungami\"/\"Unjami\" festivals of July (Lunar Calendar).\n\nYuta (\"sanjinsou\", \"tremblers\"; Yonaguni \"monoshiri\", \"one who knows\"; Miyako \"kamigakariya\", \"one who acts as a home for the gods\") are individuals who claim to possess an especially strong ability to communicate with the dead. The name \"yuta\" was originally pejorative, derived from \"tokiyuta\", or \"one who deceived\"; indeed, since the establishment of a united Ryūkyū Kingdom, their practices have been discouraged and repressed. They are employed in response to psychic disturbance or the possibility thereof.\n\nWhereas the noro is the official spiritual guide of the whole community, the yuta deals personally with families and individual paying clients to determine what spiritual circumstances have brought about or will bring about good or ill. They also see, channel, and communicate with the spirits of the dead in order to find out what is necessary to establish harmony in the lives of their clients. Because of this ability to interact with ancestors and solve daily problems, the yuta is probably the most influential of the kaminchu today, someone to be respected and somewhat feared. The yuta ability to channel the spirits of the recently dead, \"kuchiyose\" or \"migusou\", is especially painful to her; however, this is one of their most common activities, as it is messages from and needs of the most recently dead that are often of greatest concern.\n\n95% of yuta are women, according to Matayoshi/Trafton in their book, \"Ancestors Worship\". They use certain rituals, dream analysis, and knowledge of case history in combination with contact with spirits. They often act as counselor, solving intra-family problems that may be generations old by talking with family members both living and dead to find the roots of issues. These issues can range from a child's poor school performance due to lack of parental attention, to an individual's alcoholism being the psychological result of the neglect of certain ancestors. Yuta also possess the ability to call and banish spirits, and thus are employed in cases of clinging or angry spirits (\"hauntings\" or \"curses\"). Many may possess the power to predict disasters such as earthquakes and typhoons, or may display other powers, such as healing or divining the location of wells or lost/stolen objects.\n\nYuta receive their calling through the experience of mental and physical conditions known as \"kami-daari\". The typical disorders of \"kami-daari\" include a variety ailments from loss of appetite to hematemisis. \n\nWhile experiencing the symptoms of \"kami-daari\", the soon-to-be yuta visits an usagiya, sanjinsou, or an practicing yuta to confirm that their symptoms are truly \"kami-daari\". If she is confirmed to be experiencing \"kami-daari\", she begins her journey to priestesshood. However, not all of those who experience \"kami-daari\" seek help from local shamans or priestesses. If she does not seek priestesshood and perform her ritual duties, it is thought that she will never be freed from her sufferings caused by \"kami-daari\", become insane, as well as call misfortunes to her family and self. \n\nThe abilities to interact with the dead and solve family problems are discovered or developed through this trauma. Problems may also arise through the rejection of the call to be a yuta; these are called \"tatari\" (\"punishments\"), the period of suffering during which a yuta discovers the spirits which have called her into service. Yuta may emphasize various Buddhist beliefs, such as that of not being able to call forth those spirits who have obtained Buddhahood.\n\nIn \"Religion and Folklore of Okinawa\", Kanhan Teruya divides yuta into various categories. Three are yuta dealing with spirits from the \"Present Age\" (v.s.), those dealing with ancestors who died in the \"Middle Age\", and those dealing with gods and Ultimate Ancestors. Some yuta are \"gamu mawari senmon\", or those concerned with the use of caves. Some only arbitrate or advise. Also, yuta tend to either perform rituals anytime they are needed, or use only the Chinese zodiac days of the Tiger or Ox. (Teruya 255–256; quoted after Bollinger)\n\nOther classes of people wielding spiritual power in the Ryukyu Islands include the \"ukuri\", or family priest/priestess; the \"usagiyaa\", a prayer specialist aiding in the disorders of \"kami-daari\" (though lacking the power of the yuta or noro); and \"book people\" (\"shimuchi\"), various kinds of fortune-tellers that usually refer to charts and published interpretations of signs. Yuta and shimuchi may keep a \"suumun\", a special box in which their fortune-telling guides are kept. Somewhat less important are Buddhist and Shinto clergy, who are generally only consulted for weddings, funerals, or on certain holidays associated with those religions (such as solar New Year activities). In the case of weddings, even Christian clergy may be called upon to officiate. Viewing of or participation in rituals may be forbidden to outsiders.\n\nIjun is an Okinawan New Religion that was founded in 1972 by Takayasu Rokuro. The Ijun religion has established churches on the islands of Okinawa, Miyako, Honshu, Taiwan, and Hawaii with an estimated ten thousand followers. The main deity of Ijun is called \"Kinmanmon\". This deity communicated with Takayasu as a voice and identified itself as the primary deity of the universe, establishing all other deities as manifestations of \"Kinmanmon\".\n\nLike other Ryukyuan religions, Ijun began as a religion focused on female-centered leadership within the church. However, in 1989, it was decided that these role were more suited for men. By 1992, men had completely replaced women in their leadership roles, and women were placed in subordinate roles: maintaining the hearth, child rearing, etc. Takayasu explained that there are a few reasons for this: the church would not prosper if it did not adhere to the male-dominant society; Ijun might seem like a “women’s only” club, as a majority of the members and leaders were women; and childbearing would prevent women from performing their ritual duties. The Ijun branch on the island of Hawaii (est. 1989) is dominated by female leaders, forgoing the stringent, male-dominant practices of all other branches. The leaders of the Ijun church explain that this is appropriate because the female deity Pele is considered the Hawaiian incarnation of Kinmanmon. Takayasu stated that he sees this gender segregation within the church as necessary, but does not intend for it to last forever. He has also expressed a want to create co-gender ritual leading teams.\n\nThe 1950s saw a rise in Catholic missionary activity in the Ryukyuan islands, resulting in a high conversion rate amongst the Ryukyuan people. The ratio of conversion to Catholicism in the Ryukyuan islands became the highest among the Japanese Prefectures at the time. This was made possible by the blending of existing Ryukyuan religious practices and Christian themes.\n\nRecently, Catholicism has seen a decline in influence within the islands in response to growing competition with New Religions. \n\nMost Ryukyuan festivals, observances and rituals are held on dates decided by the lunar calendar. Festivals common to Japan, like Obon, are held, along with those that are uniquely Ryukyuan.\n\nNirai Kanai is the mythical place from which all life originates. It is worshipped facing eastward, and is fabled to be Kudaka Island. Gods from Nirai Kanai are said to have brought different crops and tools to the Ryukyuan people at different times. \"Nirai Kanai\" is referred to in the \"Irosetsuden\" as the underwater realm of the Dragon or Sea King (Ruuguu).\n\nAccording to \"Chūzan Seikan\", the Heavenly Emperor (天帝), who lived in the Heavenly Gusuku (天城), ordered Amamikyu (阿摩美久) to create the Ryukyu Islands. She descended to Earth on the spot of Sefa-utaki, and later built Tamagusuku Castle and Chinen Castle. Without sexual intercourse, she became pregnant by Shinerikyu, her male counterpart, and populated the islands. Some generations later, a \"heavenly grandchild\" named Tentei was born, who split Ryukyuan society into five classes with his three sons and two daughters: the first son was Tenson, who became the first King of Ryukyu; the second son became the first Aji; the third son became the first farmer; the first daughter became the first royal noro priestess; and the second daughter became the first village noro priestess.\n\nOkinawa Prefecture is one of the leading prefectures of psychological disorders in Japan.\n\nIn 1972 Okinawa was introduced to modern psychological practice. The psychological world initially rejected shamanism, but the increase in pro-Okinawan mentality among the people prompted a coexistence between the practices in society. Although shamans and doctors work to separate their practices from each other, Okinawan citizens utilize both services to find a central ground between spiritual and scientific realms.\n\nVarious objects of power exist for Ryukyuan people; amulets are called \"munnukimun\". Some of the most commonly seen are those purchased at Shinto shrines, such as charms for luck and safety. Others are of indigenous Ryukyu significance.\n\nThe origins of this custom are not clearly pinpointed in history however; Ishiganto dating back to year 770 in China have been discovered during the reign of the Emperor of the Tang Dynasty. Based on this information it is generally accepted that the practice of using ishiganto spread throughout China during the late eighth century. The best guestimate researchers today have is the ishiganto was introduced to the RyuKyu kingdom during the middle of the fifteenth century. It then later spread to Japan at the end of the sixteenth century all the way north as far as Aomori, Akita, and Hokkaido. (Takahashi & Matsui, 2011)\n\nIshiganto are extremely prevalent in the RyuKyu archipelago. The largest numbers of these stone tablets are located on the main island of Okinawa. Generally older traditional ishiganto in Okinawa are place 20-30 centimeters off the ground. This is done to ward off evil spirits that enter the area by crawling on the ground. Presently it is not uncommon to see an ishiganto embedded in the middle to upper part of a wall. Kikai-jima (island) is known to have a triangular like font that is very comparable to a Japanese chess game called shogi. Today ishiganto are still being made and are in demand. There are stone companies on Okinawa that still make a traditional ishiganto. Other versions of these tablets are sold on line in a much cheaper fashion and are generally mass-produced. (Takahashi & Matsui, 2011)\n\nA description of talismans from the source cited above:\n\n\nSalt is often placed at corners and in doorways to ward away evil.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16131134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16131134", "title": "Shakdvipa", "text": "Shakdvipa\n\nShakdvipa, also called Shwetadvipa, is mystical island in the Hindu religion. Shakdvipa is surrounded by the sea of whey () with an extent of thirty-two lakh Yojans. \n\nAccording to (surviving) Hindu traditions, Shakdvipa is a region in the Universe (Cosmos), that lies to the south of the 'Sea of Salt', which in turn, lies South of the Earth-plane. The island has a huge tree of Shaka, hence its name. The tree is said to have a sweet fragrance, the whole island emits a pleasant scent. The mythical ruler of this island, Medhatithi, was a son of Priyvrata. Priyvrata is a mythical king, he was a devoted Hindu who was famous because he was married and religious. Medhatihi, the king of Shakdvipa, had seven sons- Purojav, Manojav, Pawamana, Dhumranik, Chitraref, Bahurup and Vishwdhar. They were made the rulers of the seven divisions of the island. People of the island use Pranayama to weaken their Rajoguna and Tamoguna. These people are said to worship Hari (Vishnu) in Vayu (form) through meditation.\n\nVishnu Purana: \"Shakdvipa located inside Chira sea and Shakdwipis are friends\"\n\nMahabharata 6.604 : \"In Shakdvipa, caste system is same as Jambudvipa. There was four caste in Shakdvipa 1. Maga 2. Mushus 3. Manus 4 Mandak\" \n"}
{"id": "3238574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3238574", "title": "Shtiebel", "text": "Shtiebel\n\nA shtiebel ( \"shtibl\", pl. \"shtiblekh\" or shtiebels, meaning \"little house\" or \"little room\") is a place used for communal Jewish prayer. In contrast to a formal synagogue, a shtiebel is far smaller and approached more casually. It is typically as small as a room in a private home or a place of business which is set aside for the express purpose of prayer, or it may be as large as a small-sized synagogue. It may or may not offer the communal services of a synagogue.\n\nTraditional shtiebels are not only a place for prayer, but also a place for community gathering. Due to the prominence of a Hasidic rebbe, the shtiebel served as a medium for being near to him. A shtiebel would be host to the Seudah Shlishit, the ritual third meal of the Sabbath.The shtiebel attracted newcomers through the inviting atmosphere it created by allowing prayer, eating, drinking, and community activities.\n\nShtiebels were common in Jewish communities in Eastern Europe before the Holocaust. The shtiebel was distinctly characteristic of Hasidic Judaism and played a central and critical role in the life of the Hasidim. It continues to exist in contemporary Israel and the United States.\n\nThe shtiebel was cost effective and assisted in the spread of Hasidism through a grassroots movement where individuals previously exposed to Hasidism could establish one in their local community. This characteristic of the shtiebel allowed for Hasidism to reach more communities on the local and regional level throughout the 18th and 19th Century.\nIn Israel, minyans are held in storefront \"shtiebelekh\" in major business areas around the clock; whenever ten men show up, a new minyan begins. The Zichron Moshe shtiebel in the Zikhron Moshe neighborhood of Jerusalem (near Geula) is located in a proper synagogue, with many rooms for round-the-clock minyans. This shtiebel is well known as the locale of Friday-night mussar talks which Rabbi Sholom Schwadron, the \"Maggid of Jerusalem,\" delivered for more than 40 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "7298917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7298917", "title": "The Occult History of the Third Reich", "text": "The Occult History of the Third Reich\n\nThe Occult History of the Third Reich, narrated by Patrick Allen and directed by Dave Flitton, is a 1991 four-part History Channel documentary regarding the occult influences and history of Nazi Germany and early 20th century Germany.\n\nThe documentary was originally shown and released in four parts in 1991.\n\nFollowing broadcast, it was subsequently re-released on DVD in 1998 by Madacy and again in 2004 in four parts by Pagasus .\n\nThe documentary contains mainly black and white as well as some color archival footage, with narration explaining the influences of alternative belief systems (occult, paganism, mysticism, etc.) on the Nazi ideology and Hitler's personal philosophy. It also documents the history and development of ideas and symbols and of the eugenics movement.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the young Adolf Hitler was just one of many German-speaking people attracted by a new Germanic mythology that combined ancient legends and esoteric cosmologies with cutting-edge theories of genetic science. In the hands of the Nazis, the result was a new ideology that saw racial purity as the key to human destiny.\n\nThis was a belief-system of arcane rituals and potent symbols, with the ancient swastika appropriated for the Nazi cause. By the time of the Third Reich, Hitler and the Nazis had evolved an entirely new faith, complete with holy book, venerated relics, and a priestly elite in the form of Himmler's SS. It was a religion based on obedience, power, and the cult of the leader, with Hitler himself conceived in Messianic terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "276906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=276906", "title": "Workmen's Circle", "text": "Workmen's Circle\n\nThe Workmen’s Circle or Der Arbeter Ring () is an American Jewish nonprofit organization that promotes social and economic justice, Jewish community and education, including Yiddish studies, and Ashkenazic culture. It operates schools and Yiddish education programs, and year-round programs of concerts, lectures and secular holiday celebrations. The organization has community branch offices throughout North America, a national headquarters in New York City and approximately 11,000 members nationwide. It owns and operates a summer camp located in Hopewell Junction, New York called Camp Kinder Ring. It also runs an adult vacation campground facility, Circle Lodge, with bungalows and cottages, and a healthcare center in Bronx, New York.\n\nFormed in 1900 by Yiddish-speaking Jewish immigrants from Eastern Europe, The Workmen's Circle at first acted as a mutual aid society, helping its members to adapt to their new life in America. It provided life insurance, unemployment relief, healthcare, social interaction, burial assistance and general education through its branches throughout the US as well as through its national office. Soon, the organization was joined by more politically focused socialist Bundists who advocated the anti-assimilationist idea of Yiddish cultural autonomy, led by education in Yiddish and socialist ideals. The Circle formed the Folksbiene Yiddish theatre troupe and promoted Jewish arts and music, Yiddish school programs for children and Yiddish summer camps. It became influential in the American labor movement and grew to serve more than 84,000 members through hundreds of branches around North America. It also became involved with the Yiddish newspaper \"The Forward\" and operated old-age homes, medical clinics and other services.\n\nPolitically, the Circle moved away from socialism towards liberalism by the time of the New Deal. By the 1960s, the Circle's membership began to decline, as Jews joined the middle class and moved from cities to suburbs; the Circle no longer seemed as essential to many as it had been. In the new century, the organization ended its direct health insurance program, streamlined its operations, separated from \"The Forward\", and rededicated its mission to education and promoting Jewish community, secular Yiddish culture and social justice activism. It sold its former East side building and moved to new offices in the Garment District of New York City in 2011. The Workmen's Circle is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization.\n\nWith the pogroms in the 1880s and succeeding decades, more than 2 million Yiddish-speaking Jews fled Eastern Europe with their families, and most immigrated to the United States, many to New York City. They usually arrived penniless, and the bulk of them entered the fast-growing, but exploitative garment industry. Others found work as peddlers, jewelers, launderers, Hebrew tutors and even shopkeepers. To assist each other in adapting to their challenging new life in America, they formed several mutual aid societies. The Workmen's Circle was founded in New York City on September 4, 1900 as a national organization that grew out of the Workingmen's Circle Society of New York, formed in 1892 by Jewish cloak makers. It immediately provided to its members life insurance, some unemployment relief, healthcare, social interaction such as dances, and financial assistance in obtaining a graveyard plot. It also held general education sessions on the natural sciences and had the generally pro-labor and socialist goal \"of helping to develop in working people a sense of solidarity, a clear, enlightened outlook, the striving, by means of their unity, to acquire that influence in ultimately, bringing on the day of their complete emancipation from exploitation and oppression.\" Unlike other mutual aid groups, the organization had a workers' social agenda that it took seriously. It \"agitated to abolish child labor, establish social security and shorten the work day.\"\n\nThe organization began to form a national network of autonomous branches soon after its founding, chartered through the national organization, that provided services to their local members. From 1905, greatly increased Jewish immigration to the US, following new pogroms in Russia, brought to America large numbers of politically sophisticated socialist Bundists. The Bundists advocated the anti-Zionist, anti-assimilationist idea of Yiddish cultural autonomy and a secular Jewish identity, led by education in Yiddish language and literature, socialist ideals, Jewish history and ethical and aesthetic culture, an idea championed by Chaim Zhitlowsky. Many of the Bundists joined The Workmen's Circle and pushed it both to fight exploitative labor practices and to expand its national activities toward Yiddish education and to focus on Yiddish culture, rather than simply providing financial aid. Many of the older members argued that the organization could barely afford to provide its traditional aid to members; this discussion continued for two decades. Zhitlowsky and the Bundists succeeded in persuading the organization to establish a range of cultural activities meant to inform and express the secular Jewish spirit, such as the Folksbiene Yiddish theatre troupe (1915), Yiddish book publishing, orchestras, and art expositions sponsored by the branches around the country, Yiddish after school programs for children and teens (beginning in 1918), adult lecture circuits, Camp Kinderland (1923) and the organization's own literary and political journal, \"The Friend\", and \"Unser Schul\" (\"Our School\"), a monthly pedagogical journal for the teachers in its schools. \n\nIn the meantime, especially after a series of garment workers' strikes in New York beginning in 1910, the Circle became influential in the American labor movement through the United Hebrew Trades, later helping to found the Jewish Labor Committee. At the same time, the Workmen's Circle continued its role as a mutual aid society. In 1917 it adopted the National Fraternal Congress of America mortuary table, and by 1920 it established a sanatorium for tuberculosis patients at Liberty, New York, where members could receive free treatment for nine months. In the 1920s, the organization reached its peak of 84,000 members, 125 schools nationwide and numerous branches nationwide; for example, the Philadelphia district had 17 branches in 1924. But during that decade, members of The Workmen's Circle sympathetic to the Communist Party initiated a power-struggle in the Circle's national organization and many of its branches around the country, but they were rejected in 1929 and formed a separate organization, taking with them about 5,000 members and some of the Circle's establishments, like Camp Kinderland.\n\nIn the middle of the 20th century, The Workmen's Circle continued to operate old age homes and medical clinics and offer burial assistance, affordable health and life insurance; it established Camp Kinder Ring to replace Camp Kinderland (and some branches also operated camps); and it continued to have a hand in operating the Yiddish-language newspaper \"The Forward\", which shared its office building in New York. The organization continued to emphasize Yiddish education and the arts (klezmer music; Folksbiene theatre; choral groups), mutual aid and social interaction. It also emphasized social justice, such as efforts to oppose the repression of Soviet Jewry, and support of humanitarian relief efforts, as its political perspective had moved away from socialism towards liberalism by the time of the New Deal, and its members enthusiastically supported America's entry into World War II and even became pro-Israel. In 1949, the Workmen's Circle included 700 local branches with 70,000 members in the United States and Canada.\n\nBeginning by the 1960s, the Circle's membership slowly declined, reaching a level of about 50,000 members by the 1980s. When the federal Medicare program began in 1966, the Circle's healthcare programs became less urgently needed. More generally, as its then-president Dr. Barnett Zumhoff explained to \"The New York Times\" in 1985, with the opening up opportunities for Jews in American society, and their move into the middle class and dispersion geographically from cities to suburbs and small towns, the Circle was no longer as essential to the Jewish community as it had been. Its membership was no longer predominantly workers, but had become small-business owners, professionals and schoolteachers. Still, the Circle believed that it offered a secular alternative to synagogue attendance and Zionist groups in its preservation of Ashkenazic Yiddish culture.\n\nBy 1996, the Circle's membership had declined to 28,000. By then, it considered itself the only organization promoting Eastern European Yiddish culture. It continued to teach Yiddish language and literature, to promote secular Jewish community and Jewish arts, music and culture, to provide its aid and insurance programs, to operate its old age homes, schools, camps and to host \"holiday observances interpreting Jewish history in the traditionally secular Workmen's Circle spirit.\" It also continued its liberal agenda, supporting universal health care, for example. Its then-president, Mark Mlotek, noted: \"this is an organization that says that the language of the murdered people in Eastern Europe was Yiddish ... there is a vibrant Yiddish culture [that] has to be maintained. Without it, a heart and soul will really go away.\"\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, the organization ended its direct health insurance program and closed its old age homes, streamlined its operations, separated itself from \"The Forward\", hired a new executive director, Ann Toback, in 2008, reorganized its board and appointed a new president, Madelon \"Maddy\" Braun, in 2010. It rededicated its mission to education and promoting Jewish community, Yiddish culture and social justice activism. \"The plan is to reboot by offering something [the Circle] feels religious Judaism has failed to provide: an education toward a cultural Jewish identity that uses religion as a trigger for activism and connects with a legacy of progressivism and commitment to universal values.\" The organization sold its former East side building and moved to new offices in the Garment District of New York City in 2011.\n\nBy 2010, the Circle had 10,000 members and 20 branches. It used proceeds from the sale of its building to being to regrow its membership and community and school network, and to hire more educators. Toback said, \"Our expression of Judaism is through activism, and we also believe that young people come to activism through being literate Jews. The two things go together.\" Continuing to teach children Yiddish is \"a way of opening their minds and souls to something in our collective past that it is extremely important to connect to.\" In 2012, the Circle commissioned a study that showed that one in six American Jews \"are actively seeking Jewish expression and engagement outside of synagogue life.\" \n\nThe Circle continues to operate its summer camp, sponsor holiday and community events, coordinate its branches around the country and partner with Jewish school programs. No longer a mutual aid society, it operates seven schools for children (kindershuls) and offers the largest adult Yiddish language instruction program in the world, which also collaborates with New Yiddish Rep. to teach a Yiddish language through theatre class. Its social justice activism includes opposing unfair labor practices, genocide and racism and supporting comprehensive immigration reform, single-payer universal health care, gun control, strong relations between the US and Israel, humanitarian relief, human rights, environmental conservation, women’s equality, an increased minimum wage and separation of church and state.\n\nAs an organization organically linked to the historic Jewish labor movement, many of the Workmen's Circle's leaders were involved from its inception until the start of the 21st century with \"The Forward\". Through much of the 20th century, the organization's newsletter was called \"The Workmen's Circle Call\". From 2005 to 2009, The Workmen's Circle published \"Jewish Currents\" magazine and supplied it to the members of the Circle.\n\nThe youth section of the Workmen's Circle in its early years was the Young Circle League of America (YCLA), established in 1930. The group self-identified as \"first and foremost a \"cultural\" organization,\" sponsoring lectures, debates, and educational and recreational programs for its members. The YCLA also published its own magazine, \"The Call of Youth.\"\n\nThe Arbeter Ring runs seven kindershuls, or children's schools of Jewish culture, as after-school and Sunday school programs for elementary through middle schoolers. These are located in the Northeastern US and Chicago. Kindershuls emphasize the teaching of Jewish history, from Abraham onward. Jewish culture, including klezmer music and traditional Jewish cooking, is also emphasized, along with the Yiddish language and surrounding culture. Students learn to sing traditional songs in Yiddish, as well as in English and Hebrew. At the end of a student's time at kindershul, when he or she reaches age 12, a secular Bar/Bas Mitzvah ceremony, called a commencement, is held. Commencement students prepare a research paper, a family history paper, and a writeup on community service they have performed through the year. At the group commencement itself, students give a talk on their research topic of choice, often also telling their family history.\n\n\n\n"}
