{"id": "24385095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24385095", "title": "Aboriginal sites of New South Wales", "text": "Aboriginal sites of New South Wales\n\nAboriginal sites of New South Wales consist of a large number of places in the Australian state of New South Wales where it is still possible to see visible signs of the activities and culture of the Australian Aboriginals who previously occupied these areas.\n\nThese sites are comparable with the petroglyphs of Native Americans and the Rock Art found elsewhere in Australia, but are not restricted to rock carvings. Many of the sites are on the (now defunct) Register of the National Estate.\n\nThe Aboriginal Australians arrived in the north of Australia around 50,000 years ago. Sites over 22,000 years old have been found in the Blue Mountains area west of Sydney, while sites going back 40,000 years exist at Lake Mungo. There are some thousands of known sites, many but not all located in national parks. Some sites are also found in more suburban settings; rock carvings can be seen in the Sydney suburbs of Bondi and Tamarama.\n\nTheir art was part of day-to-day life and would normally have had a purpose. One such purpose is thought to have been what some people call \"wish fulfilment magic\"—or sympathetic magic—in which the act of creating the magical work is thought to bring about the event depicted in the work. For example, a hunting scene—a common subject in rock carvings—would be aimed at bringing about the desired reality of good hunting.\n\nThere were also many artworks that were created for specific ceremonial purposes and which were not intended to last after the ceremony was over. In addition to such themes, there were also works of a more secular nature, which could be created for a number of reasons, including the instruction and entertainment of children.\n\nThere are substantial variations in the character of art developed in different parts of New South Wales. Art in the western part of the state could be very different from the art created in coastal areas. Aboriginal sites in the state are administered by the National Parks and Wildlife Service of New South Wales. All known sites are recorded on the register known as the Aboriginal Heritage Information Management System (AHIMS), which is run by the National Parks and Wildlife Service.\n\nThere is generally a policy of protecting Aboriginal sites, although a small number of sites are publicised. Notable examples are those at the Basin Track, Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park, and the Bulgandry site, Brisbane Water National Park. However, most sites are not publicised, and restricted sites (colloquially known as sacred sites) will never be made public. If anyone thinks they have a legitimate reason for wanting to inspect sites that are not normally available to the public, they can apply to AHIMS for permission.\n\nThe sites are of many different types, for example:\n\nPaintings cover a wide range of subjects, both spiritual and secular. Coloured pigmentation was created with ochre (giving a red/orange colour), charcoal (for a black pigmentation) and ash (for grey pigmentation). One good example is the rock shelter popularly known as Baiame's Cave, at Milbrodale, with paintings depicting a large figure that may be Baiame, the Sky Father.\n\nRock carvings, also known as petroglyphs or Rock Engravings, are of a style known as \"simple figurative\", which conventional archaeological thinking dates to the last 5000 years. Other engravings show European sailing ships, and so cannot be more than about 200 years old. Thus we are left with a date range of 5000–200 years ago. It is likely that some of the freshest engravings represent the later part of that time range, whilst the most worn represent the earliest part. However, the situation is complicated by the fact that we know the engravings were sometimes \"re-grooved\" during ceremonies. Carvings could be very large. In some carvings, the figure of Baiame the Sky Father could be eighteen metres tall.\n\nIn addition to pictorial carvings, there are many grinding grooves, caused by grinding stone implements on a rock surface to shape them and give them an edge. Areas like Sydney and the Blue Mountains have many rock carvings because they predominantly consist of sandstone (known as Hawkesbury sandstone), which is a very suitable surface for rock carvings. See Sydney Rock Engravings for the main article on these.\n\nHand stencils can often be found in rock shelters and caves, which have given them protection from the elements over the years. They were created by placing the hand on a rocky surface and blowing pigmentation around it, leaving the silhouette of the hand on the rock. There is often a number of them in one place. The best-known example is Red Hands Cave, in the Blue Mountains National Park, which has many stencils, including those created by children as well as adults.\n\nCharcoal drawings were exactly that: drawings executed with a piece of charcoal. Like the rock carvings, they could be of a wide range of subjects, with animals often featured.\n\nShell middens developed in occupation sites where shell fish were consumed. Over the years, layers of shells would build up, creating a concentration of many shells in the soil around the occupation site.\n\nShield trees are seen occasionally in the Sydney bush. A substantial piece of bark would be cut out of a tree and used as a shield or tray. A visible \"scar\" was thus left behind, which could vary considerably in size, some being quite large.\n\nRestricted areas (otherwise known as sacred sites) are usually of a spiritual nature and were restricted to adult males and, in some cases, women. These sites could include ceremonial sites, bora grounds, men's sites and women's birthing sites.\n\nIt is necessary to distinguish between occupation sites and sacred sites, a subject about which there is often great confusion. Many people think that all Aboriginal sites are \"sacred sites\", but the reality is more complex. Before white settlement, most indigenous sites were occupation sites, which were used by all members of a tribe. Sacred sites, on the other hand, were restricted to adult males, except for certain women's sites. In more recent times, all indigenous sites \nhave become known as sacred sites; those that were previously known as sacred sites are now known as restricted sites.\n\nIt is worth noting that there are many imitation sites, in which Europeans created imitations of Aboriginal art, usually in the form of rock carvings. One of the most prominent examples is a large carving of a kangaroo alongside a walking track at Grotto Point, in the Sydney Harbour National Park. This has been known for some time to be an imitation (or fake, as some would say).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2414599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2414599", "title": "Al-Masih ad-Dajjal", "text": "Al-Masih ad-Dajjal\n\nAl-Masih ad-Dajjal ( \"\", \"the false messiah, liar, the deceiver\") is an evil figure in Islamic eschatology. He is to appear, pretending to be \"al-Masih\" (i.e. the Messiah), before \"Yawm al-Qiyamah\" (the Day of Resurrection). He is an anti-messianic figure, comparable to the Antichrist in Christian eschatology and to Armilus in medieval Jewish eschatology.\n\n' (Arabic: دجال) is an adjective of Syriac origin. It is also a common Arabic superlative form of the root word ' meaning \"lie\" or \"deception\". ', with the definite article \"al-\" (\"the\"), refers to \"the deceiving Messiah\", a specific end times deceiver. The ' is an evil being who will seek to impersonate the true Messiah.\n\nThe name Dajjal also is rooted in an Arabic word \"dajel\", which means \"to gold plate\" or \"to coat in gold\". It is derived from word meaning \"to mix\".\n\nAccording to \"hadith\", Muhammad the greatest is said to have prophesied that the Masih ad-Dajjal would be the last of a series of thirty \"Dajjal\" or \"deceivers\".\n\nAli was reported to have said:\n\n\n\nHadith attributed to Muhammad give many signs of the appearance of the \"Dajjal\" who would travel the whole world entering every city except Mecca and Medina and tempting people to follow his false religion. Muhammad is reported to have exhorted his supporters to recite the first and last ten verses of Sura Al-Kahf (chapter 18 in the Qur'an), as protection from the trials and mischief of the \"Dajjal\". The following signs are ascribed to Ali in the coming of Dajjal:\n\n\n\nThe following signs will occur just before emergence and these signs are mandatory condition for Dajjal to appear.\n\n\n\nSunni Muslims believe that Isa will descend on Mount Afeeq, on the white Eastern Minaret of Damascus. He will descend from the heavens with his hands resting on the shoulders of two angels. His cheeks will be flat and his hair straight. When he lowers his head it will seem as if water is flowing from his hair, when he raises his head, it will appear as though his hair is beaded with silvery pearls. He will descend during \"Fajr\" (sunrise) and the leader of the Muslims will address him thus, \"O' Prophet of God, lead the prayer.\"\nIsa will decline with the words, \"The virtue of this nation that follows Islam is that they lead each other.\" Implying that he will pray behind the imam (the man that leads the prayings (Mahdi)) as the word of God was completed after revelation of Qur'an and Muhammad being the last prophet of God.\n\nAfter the prayer, Isa will prepare himself to do battle and shall take up a sword. An army shall return from a campaign launched before the arrival of Isa. Isa shall set out in pursuit of Dajjal. All those who embraced the evil of Dajjal shall perish even as the breath of Isa touches them. The breath of Isa shall precede him as far as the eye can see. Dajjal will be captured at the gate of Lod. Dajjal shall begin to melt, as salt dissolves in water. The spear of Isa shall plunge into Dajjal’s chest, ending his dreaded reign. The supporters of Dajjal will be rooted out, for even the trees and rocks will speak out against them. Isa will break the cross, kill Dajjal and save the humanity. Then all battles shall cease and the world will know an age of peace. The rule of Isa will be just and all shall flock to him to enter the folds of the one true religion, Islam.\n\nShias believe that Dajjal will be killed either by Muhammad al-Mahdi or Jesus..\n\nProphecies concerning the emergence of the Dajjal are interpreted in Ahmadiyya teachings as designating a specific group of nations centred upon falsehood instead of an individual, with the reference to the Dajjal as an individual indicating its unity as a class or system rather than its personal individuality. In particular, Ahmadis identify the Dajjal collectively with the missionary expansion and colonial dominance of European Christianity throughout the world, a development which had begun soon after the Muslim conquest of Constantinople, with the Age of Discovery in the 15th century and accelerated by the Industrial Revolution. As with other eschatological themes, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad wrote extensively on this topic. In defining the word \"dajjal\" he wrote:\n\nThe identification of the Dajjal principally with colonial missionaries was drawn by Ghulam Ahmad through linking the \"hadith\" traditions about him with certain Quranic passages such as, \"inter alia\", the description in the \"hadith\" of the emergence of the Dajjal as the greatest tribulation since the creation of Adam taken in conjunction with the Quran’s description of the deification of Jesus as the greatest abomination; the warning only against the putative lapses of the Jews and Christians in \"Al-Fatiha\" – the principal Islamic prayer – and the absence therein of any warning specifically against the Dajjal; a prophetic \"hadith\" which prescribed the recitation of the opening and closing ten verses of chapter eighteen of the Quran, (\"Al-Kahf\") as a safeguard against the mischief of the Dajjal, the former of which speak of a people “who assign a son to God” and the latter, of those whose lives are entirely given to the pursuit and manufacture of material goods; and the period of the Dajjal’s reign coinciding with the dominance of Christianity. The attributes of the Dajjal as described in the \"hadith\" literature are thus taken as symbolic representations and interpreted in a way which would make them compatible with Quranic readings and not compromise the inimitable attributes of God in Islam. The Dajjal being blind in his right eye while being sharp and oversized in his left, for example, is seen as indicative of being devoid of religious insight and spiritual understanding but excellent in material and scientific attainment, with the right eye representing godliness and spirituality, and the left eye representing worldliness. Similarly, the Dajjal not entering Mecca and Medina is interpreted with reference to the failure of colonial missionaries in reaching these two places.\n\nThe defeat of the Dajjal in Ahmadi eschatology is to occur by force of argument and by the warding off of its mischief through the very coming of the Messiah, rather than by physical warfare; with the Dajjal’s power and influence gradually disintegrating and ultimately allowing for the recognition and worship of God along Islamic ideals to prevail throughout the world in a period similar to the period of time it took for nascent Christianity to rise through the Roman Empire. In particular, the teaching that Jesus was a mortal man who survived crucifixion and died a natural death, as propounded by Ghulam Ahmad, has been seen by some scholars as a move to neutralise Christian soteriologies of Jesus and to project the superior rationality of Islam. The 'gate of Lud' (\"Bāb al-Ludd\") spoken of in the \"hadith\" literature as the site where the Dajjal is to be slain (or captured) is seen, in this context, as indicating the confutation of Christian proclaimants by way of disputation in light of the Quran (), and has also been exteriorly linked with Ludgate in London, the westernmost point where Paul of Tarsus – widely believed by Muslims to be the principal corrupter of Jesus’ original teachings – is thought to have preached according to the Sonnini Manuscript of the Acts of the Apostles and other ecclesiastical works predating its discovery. Upon his arrival in London in 1924, Ghulam Ahmad's son and second Successor, Mirza Bashir-ud-Din Mahmud proceeded directly to this site and led a lengthy prayer outside the entrance of St Paul's Cathedral before laying the foundation for a mosque in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16470838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16470838", "title": "Amaleki (Book of Mormon explorer)", "text": "Amaleki (Book of Mormon explorer)\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Amaleki () was a Nephite explorer who lived in the Americas in the 2nd century BC. He is mentioned briefly as one of the brothers of Ammon, and one of sixteen men that were part of Ammon's band. Under the direction of king Mosiah, the band embarked upon a quest from the land of Zarahemla to find the group of Nephites that had left years before to settle in the land of Nephi (which was predominantly populated by Lamanites at the time). Their exploration party wandered in the wilderness for 40 days before finally stumbling upon the people of Zeniff, who mistook them for Lamanite spies and threw them in prison. Ammon's band was eventually released and helped the people of Zeniff escape the occupation of the Lamanites and return to Zarahemla.\n"}
{"id": "265020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265020", "title": "Bai people", "text": "Bai people\n\nThe Bai or Baip (Bai language: Baipho /pɛ̰˦˨xo̰˦/ (白和); ; endonym pronounced ) are an East Asian ethnic group. They constitute one of the 56 ethnic groups officially recognized by the People's Republic of China. They numbered 1,858,063 as of 2000.\n\nThe Bai people hold the colour white in high esteem and call themselves \"Baipzix\" (\"pɛ42 tsi33\"; Baizi 白子), \"Baip'ho\" (\"pɛ42 xo44\"; Baihuo 白伙), \"Baip yinl\" (\"pɛ42 ji21\"; Baini 白尼), or \"Miep jiax\". Baip people literally means 'white people' in Chinese. In 1956, the Chinese authorities named them the Bai nationality according to their preference.\n\nHistorically, the Bai had also been called Minjia (民家) by the Chinese from the 14th century to 1949. Minjia means civil people and natives, as opposite to Junjia (軍家), which means the military people who were Han Chinese.\n\nThe origin of the name Bai is not clear, but most scholars believe that it has a strong connection to the first state Bai people built in roughly the 3rd century AD. This state, called \"Baizi Guo\" (白子國; State of Bai), was not documented in Chinese orthodox history but was frequently mentioned in the oral history of Yunnan Province. It was believed to be built by the first king, Longyouna (龍佑那), who was given the family name \"Zhang\" (張) by Zhuge Liang, the chancellor of the state of Shu Han (221–263 CE). Zhuge Liang conquered the Dali region at that time and picked up Longyouna and assisted him in building the State of Bai. The State of Bai was located in present-day Midu County, Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture, Yunnan Province.\n\nBai people live mostly in the provinces of Yunnan (Dali area), and in neighboring Guizhou (Bijie area) and Hunan (Sangzhi area) provinces. Of the 2 million Bai people, eighty percent live in concentrated communities in the Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture in Yunnan Province.\n\nThe origin of Bai was heavily debated over roughly the past century. Ironically those debates were of the groups of people who were assimilated into Bai, rather than the issue per se. According to archaeological excavations around the Lake Erhai, Bai people were originated in the lake area. The earliest human site was discovered in the early 20th century, which was called the paleolithic Malong relics of Mt. Cangshan (苍山马龙遗址), dated circa 4000 bp. The late sites include Haimenkou of Jianchuan (剑川海门口，3000 bp), Baiyangcun of Binchuan (宾川白羊村, 3500 bp), and Dabona of Xiangyun(祥云大波那, 2350 bp).\n\nAn estimated 1,240,000 (as of 2003) of the Bai speak the Bai language in all its varieties. The origins of the language have been obscured by intensive Chinese influence of an extended period. Different scholars have proposed that it is an early offshoot or sister language of Chinese, or a separate group (though usually still within the Sino-Tibetan family).\n\nThe Bai call themselves Baizi, Baini, or Baihuo. They have 60 other names, including the Han term Minjia (for the Bai in Dali). In the Tang and Song Dynasty, Bai was written using Chinese characters in a manner similar to the way in which the Man'yōgana (万叶假名) were used to write Japanese. A Latin-based writing system was developed in 1957.\n\nAlthough most Bai people adhere to Buddhism, they also have a native religion of Benzhuism: the worship of \"ngel zex\" (), local gods and ancestors. Ngel zex could be any heroes in history, the prince of the Nanzhao regime, a hero of folklore or even a tiger (for instance, Laojun Jingdi is a tiger).\n\nThere are minorities practicing Taoism and Christianity.\n\nThere are a few villages in Yunnan where residents are Muslims, but speak Bai as their first language. These people are officially classified by Chinese authorities as belonging to the Hui nationality and call themselves \"Bai Hui\" (\"Bai-speaking Muslims\"). They usually say that their ancestors were Hui people, who came to Yunnan as followers of the Mongolian army in the 14th century.\n\nThe Bai diet typically comprises sharp, cold and spicy flavours. Cured ham or fish with rice are common dishes; for some groups based in mountain areas corn is a staple food.\n\nThe Bai tea ceremony, San Dao Cha 三道茶 (Three Course Tea), is most popular among the Bai in the Dali area and is a common sight at festivals and marriages. It is both a cultural ceremony and method of honouring a guest. The ceremony is often described in Mandarin as, 'Yiku, ertian, sanhuiwei' 一苦二甜三回味 (First is bitter, Second is sweet, Third brings reflection (aftertaste)).\n\nThe first tea course starts with baking the tea leaves in a clay pot over a small flame, shaking the leaves often whilst they bake. When they turn slightly brown and give off a distinct fragrance, heated water is added to the pot. The water should immediately begin bubbling. When the bubbling ceases a small amount of bitterly fragrant, concentrated tea remains. Due to the sound the hot water makes when it enters the clay pot the first course tea was, in previous times, also known as Lei Xiang Cha 雷响茶 (Sound of Thunder Tea).\n\nThe second course is sweet tea. Pieces of walnut kernel and roasted ru shan (乳扇) (a dairy product specific to the Dali region) are put into a tea cup with brown sugar and other ingredients. Boiling water is added and the tea is then offered to the guest. This tea is sweet without being oily, so the guest can easily drink it.\n\nThe third tea is made by mixing honey, Sichuan pepper, slices of ginger and cassia together in a china cup with hot Cangshan Xue green tea. The product is a tea that is sweet, coarse and spicy all at once. This Dali specialty has a noticeable aftertaste, which meant it was known as Hui Wei Cha 回味茶 (Reflection Tea).\n\nThe 18 procedures of the tea ceremony are governed by strict etiquette, which follows the principles of etiquette, honesty and beauty. As such, the tea ceremony is considered by some to perfectly embody the hospitable Bai people's current customs.\n\nThe Bai people, as their name would suggest, favor white clothes and decorations. Women generally wear white dresses, sleeveless jackets of red, blue or black color, embroidered belts, loose trousers, embroidered shoes of white cloth, and jewelry made of gold or silver. Women in Dali traditionally wear a white coat trimmed with a black or purple collar, loose blue trousers; embroidered shoes, silver bracelets and earrings. Unmarried women wear a single pigtail on the top of the head, while married women roll their hair. The men wear white jackets, black-collared coats, and dark loose shorts. Their headwear and costume reflect the Bai symbols: the snow, the moon, the flower, and the wind.\n\nThe modern Bai are famous for their tie dyes and use them for wall hangings, table decorations, clothing, etc.\n\nThe grandest festival of the Bai people is the Third Month Fair, held annually at the foot of Mount Cangshan in Dali between the fifteenth and the twentieth day of the third lunar month. Originally it was religious activity to rally and pay homage, but it gradually evolved into a fair including performances of traditional sports and dance, as well as the trade of merchandise from different regions.\n\nAnother important festival is the Torch Festival, held on the 25th day of the sixth lunar month to wish health and a good harvest. On that evening, the countryside is decorated with banners with auspicious words written upon them. Villagers then light torches in front of their gates and walk around the fields while holding yet more torches in order to catch pests.\n\nCormorant fishing uses cormorants for fishing and is practiced among the Bai fishermen.\n\nThe Bai architecture is characterized by three buildings forming a U and a fourth wall as a screen. The middle has a courtyard. The houses are usually built out of brick and wood, and the main room is in the middle (opposite the screen wall). The screen wall is built with brick and stone. The house is painted in white with black tile paintings depicting animals and other natural images. The detailing usually is made of clay sculpture, woodcarving, colored drawing, stone inscription, marble screens and dark brink. It produces a very striking and elegant effect.\n\nDali is well known for its marble. The name for marble is 'Dali marble' in Chinese. It is used in modern architecture by the Bai.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22804383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22804383", "title": "Berkail", "text": "Berkail\n\nBerqayel or Berkayel (برقايل) is one of the largest and the most historical towns in Akkar Governorate in northern Lebanon. Berkail is about 25 km north Tripoli. Berkail is well known by its olive production and green fields. It is a Sunni Muslim community.\n\nMuch of Berkail's population is employed by the Lebanese Army. Olives are the main agricultural product.\n\n"}
{"id": "19609335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19609335", "title": "Bishop of Samogitia", "text": "Bishop of Samogitia\n\nBishops of Samogitia, Samogitian diocese (now a part of Lithuania) from 1417 to 1926.\n\nThe seat of the diocese was in Varniai/Medininkai until 1864, when it was moved to Kaunas. It was liquidated in 1926 by Pope Pius XI when the archdiocese of Kaunas was created.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11235856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11235856", "title": "Blackburn Cult", "text": "Blackburn Cult\n\nThe religious group known as the Blackburn Cult, the Divine Order of the Royal Arms of the Great Eleven, or the Great Eleven Club, was started in 1922 on Bunker Hill in Downtown Los Angeles, California, and later formed a retreat in the Southern California Simi Valley. The group's founder, May Otis Blackburn, is said to have received revelations directly from angels, and, along with her daughter Ruth Wieland Rizzio, believed that she was charged by the archangel Gabriel to write books revealing the mysteries of Heaven and Earth, and life and death.\n\nNewspaper articles from the period reported strange rituals including the sacrifice of animals, sex scandals and attempts to resurrect a dead 16-year-old girl. Police found the corpse of Willa Rhoads under the floor at the Rhoadses' residence, wrapped in spices and salt, and surrounded by the bodies of seven dead dogs. Mr. and Mrs. Rhoads later confessed to the police that they had placed their daughter in the tomb fourteen months earlier at the suggestion of May Otis Blackburn. The cult was also accused of killing a member in an oven, poisoning another during a \"whirling dervish\" ceremony, and making several other members disappear.\n\nIn 1929, group leaders were indicted in Los Angeles for grand theft and investigated in connection with the disappearances of several members. These indictments created a sensation after the background of the grand theft was revealed to the public. May Otis Blackburn was charged with twelve counts of grand theft, and articles at that time referred to her as a \"cult leader\".\n\nAccording to \"Time\" magazine , the Blackburn Cult was also known as \"The Great Eleven\", and May Otis Blackburn was referred to as the \"Heel of God\". \n\nThe cult collapsed after May Otis Blackburn was imprisoned for stealing 40,000 dollars from Clifford Dabney.\n\nIn October 2007, actresses playing May Otis Blackburn and Ruth Rizzio appeared in the Ghost Tour in Strathearn Park, in Simi Valley, California. The actress playing Blackburn stated: \"May Otis is really fun and flamboyant..She's a cult leader. Who wouldn't want to play a cult leader?\" The \"Ghost Tour\" in Robert P. Strathearn Historical Park had previously featured Blackburn in 1999.\n\nIn 2008, R.J. Baudé, son of the last surviving member of the Great Eleven, published a fact-based novel about the group, \"The Blackburn Chronicles: A Tale of Murder, Money and Madness\". \n\"The Kept Girl,\" Kim Cooper's novel about the cult, Raymond Chandler and the real-life Philip Marlowe, was published in 2014.\n\nIn 2014, Samuel Fort published \"Cult of the Great Eleven,\" a detailed historical account of the rise and fall of the Divine Order of the Royal Arms of the Great Eleven.\n\n"}
{"id": "21069417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21069417", "title": "Egyptian mythology", "text": "Egyptian mythology\n\nEgyptian mythology is the collection of myths from ancient Egypt, which describe the actions of the Egyptian gods as a means of understanding the world. The beliefs that these myths express are an important part of ancient Egyptian religion. Myths appear frequently in Egyptian writings and art, particularly in short stories and in religious material such as hymns, ritual texts, funerary texts, and temple decoration. These sources rarely contain a complete account of a myth and often describe only brief fragments.\n\nInspired by the cycles of nature, the Egyptians saw time in the present as a series of recurring patterns, whereas the earliest periods of time were linear. Myths are set in these earliest times, and myth sets the pattern for the cycles of the present. Present events repeat the events of myth, and in doing so renew \"maat\", the fundamental order of the universe. Amongst the most important episodes from the mythic past are the creation myths, in which the gods form the universe out of primordial chaos; the stories of the reign of the sun god Ra upon the earth; and the Osiris myth, concerning the struggles of the gods Osiris, Isis, and Horus against the disruptive god Set. Events from the present that might be regarded as myths include Ra's daily journey through the world and its otherworldly counterpart, the Duat. Recurring themes in these mythic episodes include the conflict between the upholders of \"maat\" and the forces of disorder, the importance of the pharaoh in maintaining \"maat\", and the continual death and regeneration of the gods.\n\nThe details of these sacred events differ greatly from one text to another and often seem contradictory. Egyptian myths are primarily metaphorical, translating the essence and behavior of deities into terms that humans can understand. Each variant of a myth represents a different symbolic perspective, enriching the Egyptians' understanding of the gods and the world.\n\nMythology profoundly influenced Egyptian culture. It inspired or influenced many religious rituals and provided the ideological basis for kingship. Scenes and symbols from myth appeared in art in tombs, temples, and amulets. In literature, myths or elements of them were used in stories that range from humor to allegory, demonstrating that the Egyptians adapted mythology to serve a wide variety of purposes.\n\nThe development of Egyptian myth is difficult to trace. Egyptologists must make educated guesses about its earliest phases, based on written sources that appeared much later. One obvious influence on myth is the Egyptians' natural surroundings. Each day the sun rose and set, bringing light to the land and regulating human activity; each year the Nile flooded, renewing the fertility of the soil and allowing the highly productive farming that sustained Egyptian civilization. Thus the Egyptians saw water and the sun as symbols of life and thought of time as a series of natural cycles. This orderly pattern was at constant risk of disruption: unusually low floods resulted in famine, and high floods destroyed crops and buildings. The hospitable Nile valley was surrounded by harsh desert, populated by peoples the Egyptians regarded as uncivilized enemies of order. For these reasons, the Egyptians saw their land as an isolated place of stability, or \"maat\", surrounded and endangered by chaos. These themes—order, chaos, and renewal—appear repeatedly in Egyptian religious thought.\n\nAnother possible source for mythology is ritual. Many rituals make reference to myths and are sometimes based directly on them. But it is difficult to determine whether a culture's myths developed before rituals or vice versa. Questions about this relationship between myth and ritual have spawned much discussion among Egyptologists and scholars of comparative religion in general. In ancient Egypt, the earliest evidence of religious practices predates written myths. Rituals early in Egyptian history included only a few motifs from myth. For these reasons, some scholars have argued that, in Egypt, rituals emerged before myths. But because the early evidence is so sparse, the question may never be resolved for certain.\n\nIn private rituals, which are often called \"magical\", the myth and the ritual are particularly closely tied. Many of the myth-like stories that appear in the rituals' texts are not found in other sources. Even the widespread motif of the goddess Isis rescuing her poisoned son Horus appears only in this type of text. The Egyptologist David Frankfurter argues that these rituals adapt basic mythic traditions to fit the specific ritual, creating elaborate new stories (called historiolas) based on myth. In contrast, J. F. Borghouts says of magical texts that there is \"not a shred of evidence that a specific kind of 'unorthodox' mythology was coined... for this genre.\"\n\nMuch of Egyptian mythology consists of origin myths, explaining the beginnings of various elements of the world, including human institutions and natural phenomena. Kingship arises among the gods at the beginning of time and later passed to the human pharaohs; warfare originates when humans begin fighting each other after the sun god's withdrawal into the sky. Myths also describe the supposed beginnings of less fundamental traditions. In a minor mythic episode, Horus becomes angry with his mother Isis and cuts off her head. Isis replaces her lost head with that of a cow. This event explains why Isis was sometimes depicted with the horns of a cow as part of her headdress.\n\nSome myths may have been inspired by historical events. The unification of Egypt under the pharaohs, at the end of the Predynastic Period around 3100 BC, made the king the focus of Egyptian religion, and thus the ideology of kingship became an important part of mythology. In the wake of unification, gods that were once local patron deities gained national importance, forming new relationships that linked the local deities into a unified national tradition. Geraldine Pinch suggests that early myths may have formed from these relationships. Egyptian sources link the mythical strife between the gods Horus and Set with a conflict between the regions of Upper and Lower Egypt, which may have happened in the late Predynastic era or in the Early Dynastic Period.\n\nAfter these early times, most changes to mythology developed and adapted preexisting concepts rather than creating new ones, although there were exceptions. Many scholars have suggested that the myth of the sun god withdrawing into the sky, leaving humans to fight among themselves, was inspired by the breakdown of royal authority and national unity at the end of the Old Kingdom (c. 2686 BC – 2181 BC). In the New Kingdom (c. 1550–1070 BC), minor myths developed around deities like Yam and Anat who had been adopted from Canaanite religion. In contrast, during the Greek and Roman eras (332 BC–641 AD), Greco-Roman culture had little influence on Egyptian mythology.\n\nScholars have difficulty defining which ancient Egyptian beliefs are myths. The basic definition of myth suggested by the Egyptologist John Baines is \"a sacred or culturally central narrative\". In Egypt, the narratives that are central to culture and religion are almost entirely about events among the gods. Actual narratives about the gods' actions are rare in Egyptian texts, particularly from early periods, and most references to such events are mere mentions or allusions. Some Egyptologists, like Baines, argue that narratives complete enough to be called \"myths\" existed in all periods, but that Egyptian tradition did not favor writing them down. Others, like Jan Assmann, have said that true myths were rare in Egypt and may only have emerged partway through its history, developing out of the fragments of narration that appear in the earliest writings. Recently, however, Vincent Arieh Tobin and Susanne Bickel have suggested that lengthy narration was not needed in Egyptian mythology because of its complex and flexible nature. Tobin argues that narrative is even alien to myth, because narratives tend to form a simple and fixed perspective on the events they describe. If narration is not needed for myth, any statement that conveys an idea about the nature or actions of a god can be called \"mythic\".\n\nLike myths in many other cultures, Egyptian myths serve to justify human traditions and to address fundamental questions about the world, such as the nature of disorder and the ultimate fate of the universe. The Egyptians explained these profound issues through statements about the gods.\n\nEgyptian deities represent natural phenomena, from physical objects like the earth or the sun to abstract forces like knowledge and creativity. The actions and interactions of the gods, the Egyptians believed, govern the behavior of all of these forces and elements. For the most part, the Egyptians did not describe these mysterious processes in explicit theological writings. Instead, the relationships and interactions of the gods illustrated such processes implicitly.\n\nMost of Egypt's gods, including many of the major ones, do not have significant roles in mythic narratives, although their nature and relationships with other deities are often established in lists or bare statements without narration. For the gods who are deeply involved in narratives, mythic events are very important expressions of their roles in the cosmos. Therefore, if only narratives are myths, mythology is a major element in Egyptian religious understanding, but not as essential as it is in many other cultures.\nThe true realm of the gods is mysterious and inaccessible to humans. Mythological stories use symbolism to make the events in this realm comprehensible. Not every detail of a mythic account has symbolic significance. Some images and incidents, even in religious texts, are meant simply as visual or dramatic embellishments of broader, more meaningful myths.\n\nFew complete stories appear in Egyptian mythological sources. These sources often contain nothing more than allusions to the events to which they relate, and texts that contain actual narratives tell only portions of a larger story. Thus, for any given myth the Egyptians may have had only the general outlines of a story, from which fragments describing particular incidents were drawn. Moreover, the gods are not well-defined characters, and the motivations for their sometimes inconsistent actions are rarely given. Egyptian myths are not, therefore, fully developed tales. Their importance lay in their underlying meaning, not their characteristics as stories. Instead of coalescing into lengthy, fixed narratives, they remained highly flexible and non-dogmatic.\n\nSo flexible were Egyptian myths that they could seemingly conflict with each other. Many descriptions of the creation of the world and the movements of the sun occur in Egyptian texts, some very different from each other. The relationships between gods were fluid, so that, for instance, the goddess Hathor could be called the mother, wife, or daughter of the sun god Ra. Separate deities could even be syncretized, or linked, as a single being. Thus the creator god Atum was combined with Ra to form Ra-Atum.\n\nOne commonly suggested reason for inconsistencies in myth is that religious ideas differed over time and in different regions. The local cults of various deities developed theologies centered on their own patron gods. As the influence of different cults shifted, some mythological systems attained national dominance. In the Old Kingdom (c. 2686–2181 BC) the most important of these systems was the cults of Ra and Atum, centered at Heliopolis. They formed a mythical family, the Ennead, that was said to have created the world. It included the most important deities of the time but gave primacy to Atum and Ra. The Egyptians also overlaid old religious ideas with new ones. For instance, the god Ptah, whose cult was centered at Memphis, was also said to be the creator of the world. Ptah's creation myth incorporates older myths by saying that it is the Ennead who carry out Ptah's creative commands. Thus, the myth makes Ptah older and greater than the Ennead. Many scholars have seen this myth as a political attempt to assert the superiority of Memphis' god over those of Heliopolis. By combining concepts in this way, the Egyptians produced an immensely complicated set of deities and myths.\n\nEgyptologists in the early twentieth century thought that politically motivated changes like these were the principal reason for the contradictory imagery in Egyptian myth. However, in the 1940s, Henri Frankfort, realizing the symbolic nature of Egyptian mythology, argued that apparently contradictory ideas are part of the \"multiplicity of approaches\" that the Egyptians used to understand the divine realm. Frankfort's arguments are the basis for much of the more recent analysis of Egyptian beliefs. Political changes affected Egyptian beliefs, but the ideas that emerged through those changes also have deeper meaning. Multiple versions of the same myth express different aspects of the same phenomenon; different gods that behave in a similar way reflect the close connections between natural forces. The varying symbols of Egyptian mythology express ideas too complex to be seen through a single lens.\n\nThe sources that are available range from solemn hymns to entertaining stories. Without a single, canonical version of any myth, the Egyptians adapted the broad traditions of myth to fit the varied purposes of their writings. Most Egyptians were illiterate and may therefore have had an elaborate oral tradition that transmitted myths through spoken storytelling. Susanne Bickel suggests that the existence of this tradition helps explain why many texts related to myth give little detail: the myths were already known to every Egyptian. Very little evidence of this oral tradition has survived, and modern knowledge of Egyptian myths is drawn from written and pictorial sources. Only a small proportion of these sources has survived to the present, so much of the mythological information that was once written down has been lost. This information is not equally abundant in all periods, so the beliefs that Egyptians held in some eras of their history are more poorly understood than the beliefs in better documented times.\n\nMany gods appear in artwork from the Early Dynastic Period of Egypt's history (c. 3100–2686 BC), but little about the gods' actions can be gleaned from these sources because they include minimal writing. The Egyptians began using writing more extensively in the Old Kingdom, in which appeared the first major source of Egyptian mythology: the \"Pyramid Texts\". These texts are a collection of several hundred incantations inscribed in the interiors of pyramids beginning in the 24th century BC. They were the first Egyptian funerary texts, intended to ensure that the kings buried in the pyramid would pass safely through the afterlife. Many of the incantations allude to myths related to the afterlife, including creation myths and the myth of Osiris. Many of the texts are likely much older than their first known written copies, and they therefore provide clues about the early stages of Egyptian religious belief.\n\nDuring the First Intermediate Period (c. 2181–2055 BC), the \"Pyramid Texts\" developed into the \"Coffin Texts\", which contain similar material and were available to non-royals. Succeeding funerary texts, like the \"Book of the Dead\" in the New Kingdom and the \"Books of Breathing\" from the Late Period (664–323 BC) and after, developed out of these earlier collections. The New Kingdom also saw the development of another type of funerary text, containing detailed and cohesive descriptions of the nocturnal journey of the sun god. Texts of this type include the \"Amduat\", the \"Book of Gates\", and the \"Book of Caverns\".\n\nTemples, whose surviving remains date mostly from the New Kingdom and later, are another important source of myth. Many temples had a \"per-ankh\", or temple library, storing papyri for rituals and other uses. Some of these papyri contain hymns, which, in praising a god for its actions, often refer to the myths that define those actions. Other temple papyri describe rituals, many of which are based partly on myth. Scattered remnants of these papyrus collections have survived to the present. It is possible that the collections included more systematic records of myths, but no evidence of such texts has survived. Mythological texts and illustrations, similar to those on temple papyri, also appear in the decoration of the temple buildings. The elaborately decorated and well-preserved temples of the Ptolemaic and Roman periods (305 BC–AD 380) are an especially rich source of myth.\n\nThe Egyptians also performed rituals for personal goals such as protection from or healing of illness. These rituals are often called \"magical\" rather than religious, but they were believed to work on the same principles as temple ceremonies, evoking mythical events as the basis for the ritual.\n\nInformation from religious sources is limited by a system of traditional restrictions on what they could describe and depict. The murder of the god Osiris, for instance, is never explicitly described in Egyptian writings. The Egyptians believed that words and images could affect reality, so they avoided the risk of making such negative events real. The conventions of Egyptian art were also poorly suited for portraying whole narratives, so most myth-related artwork consists of sparse individual scenes.\n\nReferences to myth also appear in non-religious Egyptian literature, beginning in the Middle Kingdom. Many of these references are mere allusions to mythic motifs, but several stories are based entirely on mythic narratives. These more direct renderings of myth are particularly common in the Late and Greco-Roman periods when, according to scholars such as Heike Sternberg, Egyptian myths reached their most fully developed state.\n\nThe attitudes toward myth in nonreligious Egyptian texts vary greatly. Some stories resemble the narratives from magical texts, while others are more clearly meant as entertainment and even contain humorous episodes.\n\nA final source of Egyptian myth is the writings of Greek and Roman writers like Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus, who described Egyptian religion in the last centuries of its existence. Prominent among these writers is Plutarch, whose work \"De Iside et Osiride\" contains, among other things, the longest ancient account of the myth of Osiris. These authors' knowledge of Egyptian religion was limited because they were excluded from many religious practices, and their statements about Egyptian beliefs are affected by their biases about Egypt's culture.\n\nThe Egyptian word written \"m3ˁt,\" often rendered \"maat\" or \"ma'at,\" refers to the fundamental order of the universe in Egyptian belief. Established at the creation of the world, \"maat\" distinguishes the world from the chaos that preceded and surrounds it. \"Maat\" encompasses both the proper behavior of humans and the normal functioning of the forces of nature, both of which make life and happiness possible. Because the actions of the gods govern natural forces and myths express those actions, Egyptian mythology represents the proper functioning of the world and the sustenance of life itself.\n\nTo the Egyptians, the most important human maintainer of \"maat\" is the pharaoh. In myth the pharaoh is the son of a variety of deities. As such, he is their designated representative, obligated to maintain order in human society just as they do in nature, and to continue the rituals that sustain them and their activities.\n\nIn Egyptian belief, the disorder that predates the ordered world exists beyond the world as an infinite expanse of formless water, personified by the god Nun. The earth, personified by the god Geb, is a flat piece of land over which arches the sky, usually represented by the goddess Nut. The two are separated by the personification of air, Shu. The sun god Ra is said to travel through the sky, across the body of Nut, enlivening the world with his light. At night Ra passes beyond the western horizon into the Duat, a mysterious region that borders the formlessness of Nun. At dawn he emerges from the Duat in the eastern horizon.\n\nThe nature of the sky and the location of the Duat are uncertain. Egyptian texts variously describe the nighttime sun as traveling beneath the earth and within the body of Nut. The Egyptologist James P. Allen believes that these explanations of the sun's movements are dissimilar but coexisting ideas. In Allen's view, Nut represents the visible surface of the waters of Nun, with the stars floating on this surface. The sun, therefore, sails across the water in a circle, each night passing beyond the horizon to reach the skies that arch beneath the inverted land of the Duat. Leonard H. Lesko, however, believes that the Egyptians saw the sky as a solid canopy and described the sun as traveling through the Duat above the surface of the sky, from west to east, during the night. Joanne Conman, modifying Lesko's model, argues that this solid sky is a moving, concave dome overarching a deeply convex earth. The sun and the stars move along with this dome, and their passage below the horizon is simply their movement over areas of the earth that the Egyptians could not see. These regions would then be the Duat.\n\nThe fertile lands of the Nile Valley (Upper Egypt) and Delta (Lower Egypt) lie at the center of the world in Egyptian cosmology. Outside them are the infertile deserts, which are associated with the chaos that lies beyond the world. Somewhere beyond them is the horizon, the \"akhet\". There, two mountains, in the east and the west, mark the places where the sun enters and exits the Duat.\n\nForeign nations are associated with the hostile deserts in Egyptian ideology. Foreign people, likewise, are generally lumped in with the \"nine bows\", people who threaten pharaonic rule and the stability of \"maat\", although peoples allied with or subject to Egypt may be viewed more positively. For these reasons, events in Egyptian mythology rarely take place in foreign lands. While some stories pertain to the sky or the Duat, Egypt itself is usually the scene for the actions of the gods. Often, even the myths set in Egypt seem to take place on a plane of existence separate from that inhabited by living humans, although in other stories, humans and gods interact. In either case, the Egyptian gods are deeply tied to their home land.\n\nThe Egyptians' vision of time was influenced by their environment. Each day the sun rose and set, bringing light to the land and regulating human activity; each year the Nile flooded, renewing the fertility of the soil and allowing the highly productive agriculture that sustained Egyptian civilization. These periodic events inspired the Egyptians to see all of time as a series of recurring patterns regulated by \"maat\", renewing the gods and the universe. Although the Egyptians recognized that different historical eras differ in their particulars, mythic patterns dominate the Egyptian perception of history.\n\nMany Egyptian stories about the gods are characterized as having taken place in a primeval time when the gods were manifest on the earth and ruled over it. After this time, the Egyptians believed, authority on earth passed to human pharaohs. This primeval era seems to predate the start of the sun's journey and the recurring patterns of the present world. At the other end of time is the end of the cycles and the dissolution of the world. Because these distant periods lend themselves to linear narrative better than the cycles of the present, John Baines sees them as the only periods in which true myths take place. Yet, to some extent, the cyclical aspect of time was present in the mythic past as well. Egyptians saw even stories that were set in that time as being perpetually true. The myths were made real every time the events to which they were related occurred. These events were celebrated with rituals, which often evoked myths. Ritual allowed time to periodically return to the mythic past and renew life in the universe.\n\nSome of the most important categories of myths are described below. Because of the fragmentary nature of Egyptian myths, there is little indication in Egyptian sources of a chronological sequence of mythical events. Nevertheless, the categories are arranged in a very loose chronological order.\n\nAmong the most important myths were those describing the creation of the world. The Egyptian developed many accounts of the creation, which differ greatly in the events they describe. In particular, the deities credited with creating the world vary in each account. This difference partly reflects the desire of Egypt's cities and priesthoods to exalt their own patron gods by attributing creation to them. Yet the differing accounts were not regarded as contradictory; instead, the Egyptians saw the creation process as having many aspects and involving many divine forces.\nOne common feature of the myths is the emergence of the world from the waters of chaos that surround it. This event represents the establishment of \"maat\" and the origin of life. One fragmentary tradition centers on the eight gods of the Ogdoad, who represent the characteristics of the primeval water itself. Their actions give rise to the sun (represented in creation myths by various gods, especially Ra), whose birth forms a space of light and dryness within the dark water. The sun rises from the first mound of dry land, another common motif in the creation myths, which was likely inspired by the sight of mounds of earth emerging as the Nile flood receded. With the emergence of the sun god, the establisher of \"maat\", the world has its first ruler. Accounts from the first millennium BC focus on the actions of the creator god in subduing the forces of chaos that threaten the newly ordered world.\n\nAtum, a god closely connected with the sun and the primeval mound, is the focus of a creation myth dating back at least to the Old Kingdom. Atum, who incorporates all the elements of the world, exists within the waters as a potential being. At the time of creation he emerges to produce other gods, resulting in a set of nine deities, the Ennead, which includes Geb, Nut, and other key elements of the world. The Ennead can by extension stand for all the gods, so its creation represents the differentiation of Atum's unified potential being into the multiplicity of elements present within the world.\n\nOver time, the Egyptians developed more abstract perspectives on the creation process. By the time of the \"Coffin Texts\", they described the formation of the world as the realization of a concept first developed within the mind of the creator god. The force of \"heka\", or magic, which links things in the divine realm and things in the physical world, is the power that links the creator's original concept with its physical realization. \"Heka\" itself can be personified as a god, but this intellectual process of creation is not associated with that god alone. An inscription from the Third Intermediate Period (c. 1070–664 BC), whose text may be much older, describes the process in detail and attributes it to the god Ptah, whose close association with craftsmen makes him a suitable deity to give a physical form to the original creative vision. Hymns from the New Kingdom describe the god Amun, a mysterious power that lies behind even the other gods, as the ultimate source of this creative vision.\n\nThe origin of humans is not a major feature of Egyptian creation stories. In some texts the first humans spring from tears that Ra-Atum or his feminine aspect, the Eye of Ra, sheds in a moment of weakness and distress, foreshadowing humans' flawed nature and sorrowful lives. Others say humans are molded from clay by the god Khnum. But overall, the focus of the creation myths is the establishment of cosmic order rather than the special place of humans within it.\n\nIn the period of the mythic past after the creation, Ra dwells on earth as king of the gods and of humans. This period is the closest thing to a golden age in Egyptian tradition, the period of stability that the Egyptians constantly sought to evoke and imitate. Yet the stories about Ra's reign focus on conflicts between him and forces that disrupt his rule, reflecting the king's role in Egyptian ideology as enforcer of \"maat\".\n\nIn an episode known in different versions from temple texts, some of the gods defy Ra's authority, and he destroys them with the help and advice of other gods like Thoth and Horus the Elder. At one point he faces dissent even from an extension of himself, the Eye of Ra, which can act independently of him in the form of a goddess. The Eye goddess becomes angry with Ra and runs away from him, wandering wild and dangerous in the lands outside Egypt. Weakened by her absence, Ra sends one of the other gods—Shu, Thoth, or Anhur, in different accounts—to retrieve her, by force or persuasion. Because the Eye of Ra is associated with the star Sothis, whose heliacal rising signaled the start of the Nile flood, the return of the Eye goddess to Egypt coincides with the life-giving inundation. Upon her return, the goddess becomes the consort of Ra or of the god who has retrieved her. Her pacification restores order and renews life.\n\nAs Ra grows older and weaker, humanity, too, turns against him. In an episode often called \"The Destruction of Mankind\", related in \"The Book of the Heavenly Cow\", Ra discovers that humanity is plotting rebellion against him and sends his Eye to punish them. She slays many people, but Ra apparently decides that he does not want her to destroy all of humanity. He has beer dyed red to resemble blood and spreads it over the field. The Eye goddess drinks the beer, becomes drunk, and ceases her rampage. Ra then withdraws into the sky, weary of ruling on earth, and begins his daily journey through the heavens and the Duat. The surviving humans are dismayed, and they attack the people among them who plotted against Ra. This event is the origin of warfare, death, and humans' constant struggle to protect \"maat\" from the destructive actions of other people.\n\nIn \"The Book of the Heavenly Cow\", the results of the destruction of mankind seem to mark the end of the direct reign of the gods and of the linear time of myth. The beginning of Ra's journey is the beginning of the cyclical time of the present. Yet in other sources, mythic time continues after this change. Egyptian accounts give sequences of divine rulers who take the place of the sun god as king on earth, each reigning for many thousands of years. Although accounts differ as to which gods reigned and in what order, the succession from Ra-Atum to his descendants Shu and Geb—in which the kingship passes to the male in each generation of the Ennead—is common. Both of them face revolts that parallel those in the reign of the sun god, but the revolt that receives the most attention in Egyptian sources is the one in the reign of Geb's heir Osiris.\n\nThe collection of episodes surrounding Osiris' death and succession is the most elaborate of all Egyptian myths, and it had the most widespread influence in Egyptian culture. In the first portion of the myth, Osiris, who is associated with both fertility and kingship, is killed and his position usurped by his brother Set. In some versions of the myth, Osiris is actually dismembered and the pieces of his corpse scattered across Egypt. Osiris' sister and wife, Isis, finds her husband's body and restores it to wholeness. She is assisted by funerary deities such as Nephthys and Anubis, and the process of Osiris' restoration reflects Egyptian traditions of embalming and burial. Isis then briefly revives Osiris to conceive an heir with him: the god Horus.\nThe next portion of the myth concerns Horus' birth and childhood. Isis gives birth to and raises her son in secluded places, hidden from the menace of Set. The episodes in this phase of the myth concern Isis' efforts to protect her son from Set or other hostile beings, or to heal him from sickness or injury. In these episodes Isis is the epitome of maternal devotion and a powerful practitioner of healing magic.\n\nIn the third phase of the story, Horus competes with Set for the kingship. Their struggle encompasses a great number of separate episodes and ranges in character from violent conflict to a legal judgment by the assembled gods. In one important episode, Set tears out one or both of Horus' eyes, which are later restored by the healing efforts of Thoth or Hathor. For this reason, the Eye of Horus is a prominent symbol of life and well-being in Egyptian iconography. Because Horus is a sky god, with one eye equated with the sun and the other with the moon, the destruction and restoration of the single eye explains why the moon is less bright than the sun.\n\nTexts present two different resolutions for the divine contest: one in which Egypt is divided between the two claimants, and another in which Horus becomes sole ruler. In the latter version, the ascension of Horus, Osiris' rightful heir, symbolizes the reestablishment of \"maat\" after the unrighteous rule of Set. With order restored, Horus can perform the funerary rites for his father that are his duty as son and heir. Through this service Osiris is given new life in the Duat, whose ruler he becomes. The relationship between Osiris as king of the dead and Horus as king of the living stands for the relationship between every king and his deceased predecessors. Osiris, meanwhile, represents the regeneration of life. On earth he is credited with the annual growth of crops, and in the Duat he is involved in the rebirth of the sun and of deceased human souls.\n\nAlthough Horus to some extent represents any living pharaoh, he is not the end of the lineage of ruling gods. He is succeeded first by gods and then by spirits that represent dim memories of Egypt's Predynastic rulers, the souls of Nekhen and Pe. They link the entirely mythical rulers to the final part of the sequence, the lineage of Egypt's historical kings.\n\nSeveral disparate Egyptian texts address a similar theme: the birth of a divinely fathered child who is heir to the kingship. The earliest known appearance of such a story does not appear to be a myth but an entertaining folktale, found in the Middle Kingdom Westcar Papyrus, about the birth of the first three kings of Egypt's Fifth Dynasty. In that story, the three kings are the offspring of Ra and a human woman. The same theme appears in a firmly religious context in the New Kingdom, when the rulers Hatshepsut, Amenhotep III, and Ramesses II depicted in temple reliefs their own conception and birth, in which the god Amun is the father and the historical queen the mother. By stating that the king originated among the gods and was deliberately created by the most important god of the period, the story gives a mythical background to the king's coronation, which appears alongside the birth story. The divine connection legitimizes the king's rule and provides a rationale for his role as intercessor between gods and humans.\n\nSimilar scenes appear in many post-New Kingdom temples, but this time the events they depict involve the gods alone. In this period, most temples were dedicated to a mythical family of deities, usually a father, mother, and son. In these versions of the story, the birth is that of the son in each triad. Each of these child gods is the heir to the throne, who will restore stability to the country. This shift in focus from the human king to the gods who are associated with him reflects a decline in the status of the pharaoh in the late stages of Egyptian history.\n\nRa's movements through the sky and the Duat are not fully narrated in Egyptian sources, although funerary texts like the \"Amduat\", \"Book of Gates\", and \"Book of Caverns\" relate the nighttime half of the journey in sequences of vignettes. This journey is key to Ra's nature and to the sustenance of all life.\n\nIn traveling across the sky, Ra brings light to the earth, sustaining all things that live there. He reaches the peak of his strength at noon and then ages and weakens as he moves toward sunset. In the evening, Ra takes the form of Atum, the creator god, oldest of all things in the world. According to early Egyptian texts, at the end of the day he spits out all the other deities, whom he devoured at sunrise. Here they represent the stars, and the story explains why the stars are visible at night and seemingly absent during the day.\n\nAt sunset Ra passes through the \"akhet\", the horizon, in the west. At times the horizon is described as a gate or door that leads to the Duat. At others, the sky goddess Nut is said to swallow the sun god, so that his journey through the Duat is likened to a journey through her body. In funerary texts, the Duat and the deities in it are portrayed in elaborate, detailed, and widely varying imagery. These images are symbolic of the awesome and enigmatic nature of the Duat, where both the gods and the dead are renewed by contact with the original powers of creation. Indeed, although Egyptian texts avoid saying it explicitly, Ra's entry into the Duat is seen as his death.\nCertain themes appear repeatedly in depictions of the journey. Ra overcomes numerous obstacles in his course, representative of the effort necessary to maintain \"maat\". The greatest challenge is the opposition of Apep, a serpent god who represents the destructive aspect of disorder, and who threatens to destroy the sun god and plunge creation into chaos. In many of the texts, Ra overcomes these obstacles with the assistance of other deities who travel with him; they stand for various powers that are necessary to uphold Ra's authority. In his passage Ra also brings light to the Duat, enlivening the blessed dead who dwell there. In contrast, his enemies—people who have undermined \"maat\"—are tormented and thrown into dark pits or lakes of fire.\n\nThe key event in the journey is the meeting of Ra and Osiris. In the New Kingdom, this event developed into a complex symbol of the Egyptian conception of life and time. Osiris, relegated to the Duat, is like a mummified body within its tomb. Ra, endlessly moving, is like the \"ba\", or soul, of a deceased human, which may travel during the day but must return to its body each night. When Ra and Osiris meet, they merge into a single being. Their pairing reflects the Egyptian vision of time as a continuous repeating pattern, with one member (Osiris) being always static and the other (Ra) living in a constant cycle. Once he has united with Osiris' regenerative power, Ra continues on his journey with renewed vitality. This renewal makes possible Ra's emergence at dawn, which is seen as the rebirth of the sun—expressed by a metaphor in which Nut gives birth to Ra after she has swallowed him—and the repetition of the first sunrise at the moment of creation. At this moment, the rising sun god swallows the stars once more, absorbing their power. In this revitalized state, Ra is depicted as a child or as the scarab beetle god Khepri, both of which represent rebirth in Egyptian iconography.\n\nEgyptian texts typically treat the dissolution of the world as a possibility to be avoided, and for that reason they do not often describe it in detail. However, many texts allude to the idea that the world, after countless cycles of renewal, is destined to end. This end is described in a passage in the \"Coffin Texts\" and a more explicit one in the \"Book of the Dead\", in which Atum says that he will one day dissolve the ordered world and return to his primeval, inert state within the waters of chaos. All things other than the creator will cease to exist, except Osiris, who will survive along with him. Details about this eschatological prospect are left unclear, including the fate of the dead who are associated with Osiris. Yet with the creator god and the god of renewal together in the waters that gave rise to the orderly world, there is the potential for a new creation to arise in the same manner as the old.\n\nBecause the Egyptians rarely described theological ideas explicitly, the implicit ideas of mythology formed much of the basis for Egyptian religion. The purpose of Egyptian religion was the maintenance of \"maat\", and the concepts that myths express were believed to be essential to \"maat\". The rituals of Egyptian religion were meant to make the mythic events, and the concepts they represented, real once more, thereby renewing \"maat\". The rituals were believed to achieve this effect through the force of \"heka\", the same connection between the physical and divine realms that enabled the original creation.\n\nFor this reason, Egyptian rituals often included actions that symbolized mythical events. Temple rites included the destruction of models representing malign gods like Set or Apophis, private magical spells called upon Isis to heal the sick as she did for Horus, and funerary rites such as the Opening of the Mouth ceremony and ritual offerings to the dead evoked the myth of Osiris' resurrection. Yet rituals rarely, if ever, involved dramatic reenactments of myths. There are borderline cases, like a ceremony alluding to the Osiris myth in which two women took on the roles of Isis and Nephthys, but scholars disagree about whether these performances formed sequences of events. Much of Egyptian ritual was focused on more basic activities like giving offerings to the gods, with mythic themes serving as ideological background rather than as the focus of a rite. Nevertheless, myth and ritual strongly influenced each other. Myths could inspire rituals, like the ceremony with Isis and Nephthys; and rituals that did not originally have a mythic meaning could be reinterpreted as having one, as in the case of offering ceremonies, in which food and other items given to the gods or the dead were equated with the Eye of Horus.\n\nKingship was a key element of Egyptian religion, through the king's role as link between humanity and the gods. Myths explain the background for this connection between royalty and divinity. The myths about the Ennead establish the king as heir to the lineage of rulers reaching back to the creator; the myth of divine birth states that the king is the son and heir of a god; and the myths about Osiris and Horus emphasize that rightful succession to the throne is essential to the maintenance of \"maat\". Thus, mythology provided the rationale for the very nature of Egyptian government.\n\nIllustrations of gods and mythical events appear extensively alongside religious writing in tombs, temples, and funerary texts. Mythological scenes in Egyptian artwork are rarely placed in sequence as a narrative, but individual scenes, particularly depicting the resurrection of Osiris, do sometimes appear in religious artwork.\n\nAllusions to myth were very widespread in Egyptian art and architecture. In temple design, the central path of the temple axis was likened to the sun god's path across the sky, and the sanctuary at the end of the path represented the place of creation from which he rose. Temple decoration was filled with solar emblems that underscored this relationship. Similarly, the corridors of tombs were linked with the god's journey through the Duat, and the burial chamber with the tomb of Osiris. The pyramid, the best-known of all Egyptian architectural forms, may have been inspired by mythic symbolism, for it represented the mound of creation and the original sunrise, appropriate for a monument intended to assure the owner's rebirth after death. Symbols in Egyptian tradition were frequently reinterpreted, so that the meanings of mythical symbols could change and multiply over time like the myths themselves.\n\nMore ordinary works of art were also designed to evoke mythic themes, like the amulets that Egyptians commonly wore to invoke divine powers. The Eye of Horus, for instance, was a very common shape for protective amulets because it represented Horus' well-being after the restoration of his lost eye. Scarab-shaped amulets symbolized the regeneration of life, referring to the god Khepri, the form that the sun god was said to take at dawn.\n\nThemes and motifs from mythology appear frequently in Egyptian literature, even outside of religious writings. An early instruction text, the \"Teaching for King Merykara\" from the Middle Kingdom, contains a brief reference to a myth of some kind, possibly the Destruction of Mankind; the earliest known Egyptian short story, \"Tale of the Shipwrecked Sailor\", incorporates ideas about the gods and the eventual dissolution of the world into a story set in the past. Some later stories take much of their plot from mythical events: \"Tale of the Two Brothers\" adapts parts of the Osiris myth into a fantastic story about ordinary people, and \"The Blinding of Truth by Falsehood\" transforms the conflict between Horus and Set into an allegory.\n\nA fragment of a text about the actions of Horus and Set dates to the Middle Kingdom, suggesting that stories about the gods arose in that era. Several texts of this type are known from the New Kingdom, and many more were written in the Late and Greco-Roman periods. Although these texts are more clearly derived from myth than those mentioned above, they still adapt the myths for non-religious purposes. \"The Contendings of Horus and Seth\", from the New Kingdom, tells the story of the conflict between the two gods, often with a humorous and seemingly irreverent tone. The Roman-era \"Myth of the Eye of the Sun\" incorporates fables into a framing story taken from myth. The goals of written fiction could also affect the narratives in magical texts, as with the New Kingdom story \"Isis, the Rich Woman's Son, and the Fisherman's Wife\", which conveys a moral message unconnected to its magical purpose. The variety of ways that these stories treat mythology demonstrates the wide range of purposes that myth could serve in Egyptian culture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47888788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47888788", "title": "Elmendorf Christian Community", "text": "Elmendorf Christian Community\n\nThe Elmendorf Christian Community, called Elmendorf Hutterite Colony by GAMEO, is an independent Anabaptist community of Hutterite tradition. Even though the majority of the members are ethnic Hutterites, there are also members from different other backgrounds in the community. They are located in rural Mountain Lake, Minnesota. As of 2016 the ministers are Gary Wurtz and Dwayne Wipf and the manager is Leanard Wurtz.\n\nThe history of Elmendorf Christian Community goes back to the times of the Protestant Reformation, when Anabaptists under the leadership of Jakob Hutter established community of goods in Moravia in the 1530s. After a long and complicated history of migrations in Eastern Europe, Hutterites arrived in America in 1874, forming three communities, that practiced community of goods, of which one was Bon Homme Colony, the mother colony of all Schmiedeleut Hutterites. Because of population growth, Hutterite colonies frequently branch out to form new colonies.\n\nUpland Hutterite Colony in Letcher, South Dakota, branched out in 1994 to form the Elmendorf Community. Upland had branched out of Spring Valley Hutterite Colony, located at Wessington Springs, South Dakota in 1988, Spring Valley had branched out of Platte, South Dakota in 1964, and Platte had branched out of Bon Homme in 1949.\n\nIn 2003 Elmendorf was excommunicated from Schmiedeleut affiliation with the Huttterites and became an independent colony. It was soon followed by Altona which was always in good standing with Elmendorf.\n\nIn 2006 Elmendorf Christian Community started a new community, named Detention River Christian Community, formerly known as Rocky Cape Christian Community, between Smithton and Wynyard on the Australian island of Tasmania. In 2013/14 they started another new community, named Grand River, near the town of Jamesport in Missouri.\n\nThe doctrine of the Elmendorf Christian Community does not differ markedly from the doctrine of other Old Order or Conservative Anabaptists. Like other Hutterites, they believe in and practice community of goods and separate from the world. They \"discourage speculation about end-time events, the restoration of Israel, the thousand-year reign, and the “rapture” of the children of God\".\n\nThey reject fashions of the world in clothing and hair styles and the wearing of jewellery. Women are expected to wear long hair and to keep it covered and not to wear trousers. Men and women are expected to dress in a \"simple uniform way\". In practice their Plain dress is similar to the dress of other Schmiedeleut Hutterites.\n\nLike other Hutterites they have only few restrictions on technology, they mainly forbid public television and do not have internet in private homes, but in a common computer room at the colony. They pool their ownership of cars because they live in a community of goods. They operate their own website.\n\nThe Elmendorf Christian Community is much more open to outsiders, so-called seekers, than all other Hutterite communities. They welcome all visitors for at least one visit but \"subsequent visits of an extended or indefinite duration should be petitioned for and arranged.\"\n\nThey are affiliated with the Altona Christian Community at Henderson, Minnesota and with the Fort Pitt Farms Christian Community. Elmendorf branched out to form Rocky Cape Christian Community in Australia and Grand River Christian Community in Missouri.\nThey do not belong to one of the four established \"Leut\" (branches) of ethnic Hutterites and therefore it is not totally clear if they should be seen as Hutterites. Sometimes Elmendorf and Altona are listed as independent Schmiedeleut colonies and Fort Pitt an independent Dariusleut colony, because this is where they originally came from.\nThe \"2016 Hutterite Directory\" of the James Valley Hutterite Colony lists Elemendorf along with Altona, Fort Pitt, Grand River and Rocky Cape as \"Independent\" Hutterites. These same five \"Independent\" Hutterite colonies compose a group of Hutterites known as the Hutterite Christian Communities, which Elmendorf is associated with.\n\nIn 2014 there were altogether some 170 people living in the two communities, Elmendorf and Grand River. In 2016 there were some 160 people living in Elmendorf, some 50 in Grand River and some 25 in Rocky Cape.\n\n"}
{"id": "47327511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47327511", "title": "Executive Minister of the Iglesia ni Cristo", "text": "Executive Minister of the Iglesia ni Cristo\n\nThe Executive Minister of the Iglesia ni Cristo () is the primary leader of the Philippine-based Christian denomination, the Iglesia ni Cristo.\n\nThere has been three Executive Ministers of the church since the Iglesia's founding in 1914 and all of them came from the Manalo family. The Executive Minister serves a life tenure. The Deputy Executive Minister assumes the duties of Executive Minister during the latter's absence and succeeds him when he (Executive Minister) dies or retires. For example, the current Executive Minister, Eduardo V. Manalo was elected Deputy Executive Minister by the INC District Ministers, also known as the Division Ministers in 1994.\n\nThe Executive Minister along with Deputy Executive Minister and 11 other Senior Ministers (The \"Sanggunian\" or Church Economic Council) forms the Church's Central Administration.\n"}
{"id": "19755162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19755162", "title": "Expulsion of the Moriscos", "text": "Expulsion of the Moriscos\n\nThe Expulsion of the Moriscos (, ) was decreed by King Philip III of Spain on April 9, 1609. The Moriscos were descendants of Spain's Muslim population that had converted to Christianity by coercion or by Royal Decree in the early 16th century. Since the Spanish were fighting wars in the Americas, feeling threatened by the Turks raiding along the Spanish coast and by two Morisco revolts in the century since Islam was outlawed in Spain, it seems the expulsions were a reaction to an internal problem of the stretched Spanish Empire. Between 1609 through 1614, the Crown systematically expelled Moriscos through a number of decrees affecting Spain's various kingdoms, meeting varying levels of success.\n\nAlthough initial estimates of the number expelled such as those of Henri Lapeyre range between 275,000 and 300,000 Moriscos (or 4% of the total Spanish population), the extent and actual success of the expulsion order in purging Spain of its Moriscos has been increasingly challenged by modern historians, starting with the seminal studies carried out by François Martinez (1999) and Trevor J. Dadson (2007). Dadson estimates that, out of a total Morisco population of 500,000, a figure accepted by many, around 40% avoided expulsion altogether and tens of thousands of those expelled managed to return. The only place where the expulsion was truly successful was the eastern region of Valencia, where Muslims represented the bulk of the peasantry and ethnic tension with the Christian, Catalan-speaking middle class was high. As a result, this region implemented the expulsion most severely and successfully, leading to the economic collapse and depopulation of much of its territory and aggravated by the bubonic plague which hit Valencia only a few years later.\n\nOf those permanently expelled, the majority finally settled in the Maghreb or the Barbary coast, with between 30,000 and 90,000 ultimately returning to Spain. Those who avoided expulsion or who managed to return to Spain merged into the dominant culture. The last mass prosecution against Moriscos for crypto-Islamic practices took place in Granada in 1727, with most of those convicted receiving relatively light sentences. By the end of the 18th century, indigenous Islam and Morisco identity were considered to have been extinguished in Spain.\n\nSuspicions and tensions between Moriscos, who were called New Christians, and the other Christians, who were called Old Christians, were high in some parts of Spain and practically nonexistent in others. While some Moriscos did hold influence and power, and even had positions in the clergy, others, particularly in Valencia and Aragon, were a source of cheap labour for the local nobility. Where sectarian conflict existed, old Christian communities suspected the Moriscos of not being sincere in their Christianity. The Moors who remained Muslims were known as Mudéjar. Many of these Moriscos, on the other hand, were devout in their new Christian faith, and in Granada, many Moriscos even became Christian martyrs, as they were killed by Muslims for refusing to renounce Christianity. As such the conflict between Old Christians and New Christians was an ethnically inspired one.\n\nSeveral revolts broke out, the most notable being the 1568–1573 revolt against an edict of Phillip II's banning Arabic, Arabic names, and requiring Moriscos to give up their children to be educated by priests. After the suppression of the revolt, Philip ordered the dispersal of the Moriscos of Granada to other areas. Philip expected that this would break down the Morisco community and facilitate their assimilation into the rest of the Christian population. This may have happened to a degree to Granada's Moriscos, but not in Valencia or Aragon, where Islam was still widely practised and ethnic tensions were much higher than in the rest of Spain.\n\nAt around the same time, Spain recognized the loss of more than half of its holdings in the Low Countries to the Protestant Dutch Republic. The ruling class already thought of Spain as the defender of Catholic Christendom, and this defeat helped lead to a radicalization of thinking and a desire to strike a blow to regain Spain's honor. Some critiques of Spain from Protestant countries included insults of the Spanish as corrupted by the Muslims and crypto-Muslims amongst them, which some of the nobility may have taken personally.\n\nThe situation further deteriorated in the early 17th century. A recession struck in 1604 as the amount of gold and treasure from Spain's American holdings fell. The reduction in the standard of living led to increased tension between the Moriscos and Old Christians for precious jobs.\n\nThe number of Moriscos in Spain at the time of expulsion is unknown and most estimates are based on the numbers of Moriscos who were expelled. Figures of between 300,000 and 400,000 are often cited. However, modern studies estimate between 500,000 and one million moriscos present in Spain at the beginning of the 17th century out of a total population of 8.5 million.\nA significant proportion resided in the former Crown of Aragon, where it is estimated they constituted 20% of the population, and the Valencia area specifically, where they were 33% of the total population. The rich and those who lived in the cities were mostly Christians, while the Moriscos occupied the outlying countryside and the poor suburbs of the cities.\n\nIn the Crown of Castile, which included the Guadalquivir valley in present Andalusia, the situation was considerably different. Overall, the proportion of Moriscos is considered to be lower but more significantly, the majority of them were former Mudejar (Muslims) Christians who were highly integrated in mainstream society, had abandoned many of their distinguishing cultural traits and crucially, unlike in Valencia, they did not suffer from hostility from their old-Christian neighbours, many of whom actively protected them from attempts by the Crown to expel them, to the point that in Plasencia the Crown officials sent to deport the Moriscos were immediately jailed upon arrival and in Avila the local Moriscos were integrated in the clergy and government positions to avoid expulsion. \n\nAt the time however, an additional Morisco community co-existed with these Mudejar Moriscos: a large number of Granada Moriscos who had been deported or dispersed after the uprising and war of the Alpujarras, who were the target of more suspicion within the communities in which they settled. Local sympathies for Moriscos meant that Castile and Andalusia experienced only half-hearted efforts at identifying and expelling them. The expulsion was slower and a far less thorough process than in the Crown of Aragon and particularly Valencia and a significant portion of Moriscos - according to Dadson a majority - either avoided expulsion or returned in the years following expulsion.\n\nIn the kingdom of Valencia, which held the bulk of the Morisco population in the Crown of Aragón, the situation was radically different to Castile. Valencian moriscos were the overwhelming majority of the landless peasantry and lived segregated from Christian populations. Economic and social rivalry was a major driver of resentment towards the them, particularly from the Middle classes of artisans. This had boiled over before in 1520, when in the Revolt of the Brotherhoods, the artisan guilds of Valencia revolted against both the landed aristocracy and the Muslim mudéjar peasantry. Although the rebellion was ultimately defeated in 1523, the rebels killed many, and forced the mass baptism and conversion of the remainder of the Muslim population. In 1525, these forced conversions were upheld by King Charles, thus creating the Moriscos of Valencia. The plight of the Valencian Moriscos was the worst during the expulsion due to the long-standing hostility of their Christian neighbors.\n\nThere was practically universal agreement in Spain that Islam was a threat that should be crushed. However, it was not clear how that should apply to the Moriscos, who were officially Christian. Some clerics such as Fray Luis de Aliaga, a royal councilor, supported giving time to the Moriscos to assimilate and become full Christians. This option was lightly supported by the Catholic Church in Rome, too. The most dedicated defenders of the Moriscos were the Valencian and Aragonese nobility, as their self-interest was involved. These nobles benefited the most from the poor and cheap workforce that the Moriscos provided.\n\nOpposing this view were a variety of notables and classes of people. Clerics against Aliaga included Jaime Bleda, the most prominent member of the Inquisition in Valencia. Bleda made several early proposals to King Philip III to banish or otherwise end the Morisco problem; he even recommended genocide. At first, these entreaties were without success. In 1596 the Duke of Lerma, King Philip III's chief financial officer, accused the Moriscos of collaboration with the Muslim Barbary pirates, a charge that had dogged them for years. Still, while many in the population held to this, others considered that this threat had long since passed. The Council of Aragon, in opposing any punitive measures, wrote that even if they wished to betray Spain, the Moriscos were in no position to do so \"for they possess no arms, nor supplies, nor fortified positions, nor a base for the Turkish fleet.\" Nothing came of it at the time, but the Duke of Lerma continued his antipathy toward the Moriscos.\n\nThe Duke of Lerma eventually convinced King Philip III with the help of the Archbishop of Valencia, Juan de Ribera, who considered the Moriscos as universally heretics and traitors. The archbishop added an idea to make the plan more persuasive to the king: the king could confiscate the assets and properties of the Moorish population, thereby providing a dramatic one-time boost to the royal coffers. Ribera also encouraged the king to enslave the Moriscos for work in galleys, mines, and abroad as he could do so \"without any scruples of conscience,\" but this proposal was rejected.\n\nOn April 9, 1609, the edict was signed to expel the Moriscos. The government knew that exiling so many would be problematic. It was decided to start with Valencia, where the Morisco population was greatest. Preparations were taken in the strictest secrecy. Starting in September, tercio battalions arrived from Italy. They took up positions in the main ports of Valencia: Alfaques, Dénia, and Alicante. On September 22, the viceroy ordered the publication of the decree. The Valencian aristocracy met with the government to protest the expulsion, as losing their workers would ruin their agricultural incomes. The government offered some of the confiscated property and territory of the Moriscos to them in exchange, but this didn't come close to compensating for the loss. The Moriscos would be allowed to take anything that could carry, but their homes and land would pass into the hands of their masters. Burning or other destruction of their homes before the transfer was prohibited on pain of death.\n\nCertain exceptions were granted: 6 families out of every 100 would be allowed to stay behind and maintain the infrastructure of towns that had been predominantly Morisco-inhabited. Very few took advantage of this, considering that it was thought likely that they'd be exiled anyway later. Additionally, the exile was optional for children less than 4 years old. This was later expanded to 16 years of age. Archbishop Ribera strongly opposed this part of the measure; he lobbied that at the very least the children should be separated from their parents, enslaved, and Christianized \"for the good of their souls.\"\n\nOn September 30, the first of the exiles were taken to the ports, where, as a last insult, they were forced to pay their own fare for the trip. The Moriscos were transported to North Africa, where at times they were attacked as invaders by the people of the recipient countries. Other times, small revolts broke out on the ships, causing some of the exiles to be slain in battle with the crew. This caused fears in the Morisco population remaining in Valencia, and on October 20 there was a rebellion against the expulsion. The rebels numbered 6,000 and held the remote valley of Ayora and Muela de Cortes. Five days later, a new rebellion broke out on the southern coast, with 15,000 rebels holding the Valley of Lugar.\n\nThe rebels were defeated by November. In only three months, 116,000 Moriscos had been transported to North Africa from Valencia. The start of 1610 saw the expulsion of the Moriscos of Aragon (the specific area of Aragon, not all the lands of the old Crown of Aragon). 41,952 were sent to North Africa via Alfaques, and 13,470 were sent over the Pyrenees Mountains to France. The exasperated French sent most of them to the port of Agde, and those who took the land route were charged both the transit fee and the sea fare. In September, the Moriscos of Catalonia were exiled. Andalusia exiled some 32,000 Moriscos as well.\n\nThe expulsion of the Moriscos of Castile, Extremadura and Andalusia (then all part of the Crown of Castile) was the most difficult task, since they were dispersed across the land after being broken in 1571 by the rebellion rather than being concentrated in any one place. Because of this, the Moriscos were given a first option of voluntary departure, where they could take their most valuable possessions and anything else that might sell. Thus, in Castile the expulsion lasted three years, from 1611 to 1614.\n\nIt is very difficult to gauge the success of the expulsion in purging Spain of its Morisco population, a topic which has been recently subject to a rather intense academic reassessment. Even estimates on the number of Moriscos present in Spain prior to expulsion vary, ranging from numbers based on records of expulsion orders such as those of Lynch and Lapeyre (around 300,000) to more recent estimates of up to one million.\n\nEqually, traditional Spanish historiography and early studies which drew heavily from it paint a picture of a very well run affair which succeeded in channeling the vast majority of Moriscos (around 270,000) out of the country in a short period of time. As a result, early estimates of Moriscos who succeeded in remaining in the country after the expulsion were judged to be as low as 15,000.\n\nHowever, a number of recent investigative studies have been challenging the traditional discourse on the supposed success of the expulsion in purging Spain of its Morisco population. Indeed, a number of modern studies have concluded that expulsion met widely differing levels of success, particularly between the two major Spanish crowns of Castile and Aragon.\n\nOne of the earliest anglophone re-examinations of Morisco expulsion was carried out by Trevor J. Dadson in 2007. Dadson estimates that as much as 40% of Moriscos (around 200,000) never left the country and up to an additional 70,000 of those expelled, managed to return. A significant section of his work is devoted to the example of Villarubia de los Ojos in southern Castille. The Morisco population of this town was target of three expulsions which they managed to avoid or from which they succeeded in returning from to their town of origin, being protected and hidden by their non-Morisco neighbours. Dadson provides numerous examples, of similar incidents throughout Spain whereby Moriscos were protected and supported by non-Moriscos and returned en masse from North Africa, Portugal or France to their towns of origin. \n\nA similar study on the expulsion in Andalusia concluded it was an inefficient operation which was significantly reduced in its severity by resistance to the measure among local authorities and populations. It further highlights the constant flow of returnees from North Africa, creating a dilemma for the local inquisition who did not know how to deal with those who had been given no choice but to convert to Islam during their stay in Muslim lands as a result of the Royal Decree. Upon the coronation of Felipe IV, the new king gave the order to desist from attempting to impose measures on returnees and in September 1628 the Council of the Supreme Inquisition ordered inquisitors in Seville not to prosecute expelled Moriscos \"unless they cause significant commotion.\" \n\nAn investigation published in 2012 sheds light on the thousands of Moriscos who remained in the province of Granada alone, surviving both the initial expulsion to other parts of Spain in 1571 and the final expulsion of 1604. These Moriscos managed to evade in various ways the royal decrees, hiding their true origin thereafter. More surprisingly, by the 17th and 18th centuries much of this group accumulated great wealth by controlling the silk trade and also holding about a hundred public offices. Most of these lineages were nevertheless completely assimilated over generations despite their endogamic practices. A compact core of active crypto-Muslims was prosecuted by the Inquisition in 1727, receiving comparatively light sentences. These convicts kept alive their identity until the late 18th century.\n\nSpain's Morisco population was the last population who self-identified and traced its roots to the various waves of Muslim conquerors from North Africa. Modern population genetics generally assume Moriscos to have had both significant Iberian and North African ancestry, even if, after centuries of presence and intermarriage in the Iberian peninsula they were unlikely to differ significantly in ethnic terms from the wider Spanish population. For this reason, studies in population genetics which aim to ascertain Morisco ancestry in modern populations search for Iberian or European genetic markers among contemporary Morisco descendants in North Africa, and for North African genetic markers among modern day Spaniards.\nA wide number of recent genetic studies of modern-day Spanish and Portuguese populations have ascertained an unusually high level of North African admixture as compared to the rest of the European continent, which is generally attributed to Islamic rule and settlement of the Iberian peninsula. Common North African genetic markers which are relatively high frequencies in the Iberian peninsula as compared to the rest of the European continent are Y-chromosome E1b1b1b1(E-M81) and MtDna Haplogroups L and U6. Studies coincide that North African admixture tends to increase in the South and West of the peninsula, peaking in parts of Andalusia, Extremadura and North West Castile. Distribution of North African markers are largely absent from the northeast of Spain as well as the Basque country. The uneven distribution of admixture in Spain has been explained by the extent and intensity of Islamic colonization in a given area, but also by the varying levels of success in attempting to expel the Moriscos in different regions of Spain, as well as forced and voluntary morisco population movements during the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nAs for tracing Morisco descendants in North Africa, to date there have been few genetic studies of populations of Morisco origin in the Maghreb region, although studies of the Moroccan population have not detected significant recent genetic inflow from the Iberian peninsula. A recent study of various Tunisian ethnic groups has found that all were indigenous North African, including those who self-identified as Andalusians.\n\nThe Council of Castile evaluated the expulsion in 1619 and concluded that it had no economic impact for the country. This was basically true for Castile, as some scholars of the expulsion have found no economic consequences on sectors where the Morisco population was important. However, in the Kingdom of Valencia, fields were abandoned and a vacuum was left in sectors of the economy the Christians could not possibly fill. With the removal by 33% of the inhabitants of the Kingdom of Valencia, some counties in the north of the current Alicante province lost virtually their entire population. The infrastructure decayed, and the Christian nobles and landlords fell into arrears. Strapped for cash, many of the Valencian nobles increased rents on their Christian tenants to get even close to their previous income. The increase in rents drove off any new tenants from coming to replace them, and as a result agricultural output in Valencia dropped tremendously.\n\nThe expulsion was a crippling blow not just to the economies of Aragon and Valencia, but also the power of their nobles. The former Crown of Aragon had been in the shadow of the richer and more populous Crown of Castile for some time, but with this, their stature dropped still further. Of the Eastern Kingdoms themselves, the Catalan nobles now rose to prominence, their incomes far less affected since, unlike their southern and westerly neighbours, they never had a significant morisco population. Thus the expulsion helped shift power away from its traditional centers in Valencia to Catalonia within the Crown of Aragon.\n\nIn reaction to the policy of Spain to facilitate access to Spanish citizenship by descendants of the Jews who were expelled from Spain, there has been demand from Muslims to apply a similar policy to the descendants of the \"Moriscos\". In 2006 this demand received support from the parliament of Andalusia but has not gained broader support.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58095923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58095923", "title": "Fedor Putintsev", "text": "Fedor Putintsev\n\nFedor Maksimovich Putintsev (, 1899-1947) was a prominent Soviet propagandist of atheism and a scientific worker in the study of problems of religion and atheism. He was also a journalist and writer.\n\nMember of the Communist Party since 1920. From 1921-1922 he actively participated in anti-religious propaganda. He was a member of the Central Council of the League of Militant Atheists of the USSR from 1925. In 1932-1934 he edited the newspaper Bezbozhnik. He was the editor of the magazine Bezbozhnik. Putintsev in particular participated in the campaign against religious holidays. The basic direction of his research work was history, ideology, the political role of religious sectarianism. He was a researcher of the problems of evolutionists religion, sectarianism in the period of construction of the Socialist society. Putintsev developed a handbook \"Questionnaire and instructions for the collection of information about sects,\" on the basis of which were held concise sociological. Studies that gave a more or less complete picture of sectarian religiosity at the end of the 1920s and beginning of the 1930s. On these and other issues he wrote a lot of articles, a number of books. The main ones are \"The Origin of Religious Feasts\" (M., 1924 and 1925), \"The Political Role of Sectarianism\" (M., 1927 and 1929), \"The Doukhobors\" (M., 1927 and 1928), \"The Debt Bondage Brotherhood of the sectarians\" (M., 1931), \"The Political Role and Tactics of Sects\" (Moscow, 1935), \"On Freedom of Conscience in the USSR\" (Moscow, 1939).\n\n"}
{"id": "23835239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23835239", "title": "Francisco Domingo Barbosa Da Silveira", "text": "Francisco Domingo Barbosa Da Silveira\n\nFrancisco Domingo Barbosa Da Silveira (26 March 1944 in Tambores, Uruguay – 17 June 2015) was a Roman Catholic bishop in Uruguay.\n\nSilveira studied Roman Catholic theology. On 17 June 1972, he was ordained a priest. On 6 March 2004, he was made bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Minas. In 2009, he was extorted by two prisoners, with whom the bishop had reportedly had previous same-sex sexual relations.\n\nHe subsequently resigned in accordance with the norms of canon law after an investigation from the Holy See.\n\n"}
{"id": "41307332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41307332", "title": "Hebrew Political Union", "text": "Hebrew Political Union\n\nThe Hebrew Political Union () was a political party in Greece in the 1920s.\n\nThe party first contested national elections in 1926, when they won two seats in the parliamentary elections with 0.6% of the national vote. However, the party did not contest any further elections.\n"}
{"id": "14117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14117", "title": "History of Christianity", "text": "History of Christianity\n\nThe history of Christianity concerns the Christian religion, Christendom, and the Church with its various denominations, from the 1st century to the present.\n\nRoman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox Christianity spread to all of Europe in the Middle Ages. Since the Renaissance era, Christianity has expanded throughout the world and become the world's largest religion. Today there are more than two billion Christians worldwide.\n\nDuring its early history, Christianity grew from a 1st-century Jewish following to a religion that existed across the entire Greco-Roman world and beyond.\n\nEarly Christianity may be divided into 2 distinct phases: the apostolic period, when the first apostles were alive and led the Church, and the post-apostolic period, when an early episcopal structure developed, and persecution was periodically intense. The Roman persecution of Christians ended in AD 324 when Constantine the Great decreed tolerance for the religion. He then called the First Council of Nicaea in AD 325, beginning the period of the First seven Ecumenical Councils.\n\nThe Apostolic Church was the community led by the apostles, and to some degree, Jesus's relatives. In his \"Great Commission\", the resurrected Jesus commanded that his teachings be spread to all the world. While the historical reliability of the Acts of the Apostles is disputed by critics, the \"Acts of the Apostles\" is the major primary source of information for this period. Acts gives a history of the Church from this commission in to the spread of the religion among the Gentiles and the eastern Mediterranean by Paul and others.\n\nThe first Christians were essentially all ethnically Jewish or Jewish proselytes. In other words, Jesus preached to the Jewish people and called from them his first disciples, see for example Matthew 10. However, the Great Commission is specifically directed at \"all nations\", and an early difficulty arose concerning the matter of Gentile (non-Jewish) converts as to whether they had to \"become Jewish\" (usually referring to circumcision and adherence to dietary law), as part of becoming Christian. Circumcision in particular was considered repulsive by Greeks and Hellenists while circumcision advocates were labelled Judaisers, see Jewish background to the circumcision controversy for details. The actions of Peter, at the conversion of Cornelius the Centurion, seemed to indicate that circumcision and food laws did not apply to Gentiles, and this was agreed to at the apostolic Council of Jerusalem. Related issues are still debated today.\n\nThe doctrines of the apostles brought the Early Church into conflict with some Jewish religious authorities. This eventually led to their expulsion from the synagogues, according to one theory of the Council of Jamnia. Acts records the martyrdom of the Christian leaders, Stephen and James of Zebedee. Thus, Christianity acquired an identity distinct from Rabbinic Judaism, but this distinction was not recognised all at once by the Roman Empire, see Split of early Christianity and Judaism for details. The name \"Christian\" (Greek ) was first applied to the disciples in Antioch, as recorded in Acts 11:26.\n\nThe sources for the beliefs of the apostolic community include the Gospels and New Testament epistles. The very earliest accounts of belief are contained in these texts, such as early creeds and hymns, as well as accounts of the Passion, the empty tomb, and Resurrection appearances; some of these are dated to the 30s or 40s AD, originating within the Jerusalem Church. According to a tradition recorded by Eusebius and Epiphanius, the Jerusalem church fled to Pella at the outbreak of the First Jewish–Roman War (66–73 AD).\n\nThe post-apostolic period concerns the time after the death of the apostles (roughly 100 AD) until persecutions ended with the legalisation of Christian worship under Emperors Constantine the Great and Licinius.\n\nAccording to the New Testament, Christians were subject to various persecutions from the beginning. This involved even death for Christians such as Stephen () and James, son of Zebedee (). Larger-scale persecutions followed at the hands of the authorities of the Roman Empire, beginning with the year 64, when, as reported by the Roman historian Tacitus, the Emperor Nero blamed them for that year's Great Fire of Rome.\n\nAccording to Church tradition, it was under Nero's persecution that Peter and Paul were each martyred in Rome. Similarly, several of the New Testament writings mention persecutions and stress endurance through them.\n\nEarly Christians suffered sporadic persecutions as the result of local pagan populations putting pressure on the imperial authorities to take action against the Christians in their midst, who were thought to bring misfortune by their refusal to honour the gods.\nThe last and most severe persecution organised by the imperial authorities was the Diocletianic Persecution, 303–311.\n\nIn spite of these sometimes intense persecutions, the Christian religion continued its spread throughout the Mediterranean Basin. There is no agreement on how Christianity managed to spread so successfully prior to the Edict of Milan and the establishment of Christianity as the state religion of the Roman Empire. In \"The Rise of Christianity\", Rodney Stark argues that Christianity triumphed over paganism chiefly because it improved the lives of its adherents in various ways.\n\nAnother factor was the way in which Christianity combined its promise of a general resurrection of the dead with the traditional Greek belief that true immortality depended on the survival of the body, with Christianity adding practical explanations of how this was going to actually happen at the end of the world. For Mosheim, the rapid progression of Christianity was explained by two factors: translations of the New Testament and the Apologies composed in defence of Christianity.\n\nEdward Gibbon in his \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" discusses the topic in considerable detail in his famous Chapter Fifteen, summarizing the historical causes of the early success of Christianity as follows: \"(1) The inflexible, and, if we may use the expression, the intolerant zeal of the Christians, derived, it is true, from the Jewish religion, but purified from the narrow and unsocial spirit which, instead of inviting, had deterred the Gentiles from embracing the law of Moses. (2) The doctrine of a future life, improved by every additional circumstance which could give weight and efficacy to that important truth. (3) The miraculous powers ascribed to the primitive church. (4) The pure and austere morals of the Christians. (5) The union and discipline of the Christian republic, which gradually formed an independent and increasing state in the heart of the Roman empire.\"\n\nIn the post-Apostolic church, bishops emerged as overseers of urban Christian populations, and a hierarchy of clergy gradually took on the form of \"episkopos\" (overseers, in-spectors; and the origin of the term bishop) and \"presbyters\" (elders; and the origin of the term priest), and then \"deacons\" (servants). But this emerged slowly and at different times for different locations. Clement, a 1st-century bishop of Rome, refers to the leaders of the Corinthian church in his epistle to Corinthians as bishops and presbyters interchangeably. The New Testament writers also use the terms overseer and elders interchangeably and as synonyms.\n\nPost-apostolic bishops of importance include Polycarp of Smyrna, Clement of Rome, and Ignatius of Antioch. These men reportedly knew and studied under the apostles personally and are therefore called Apostolic Fathers. Each Christian community also had presbyters, as was the case with Jewish communities, who were also ordained and assisted the bishop. As Christianity spread, especially in rural areas, the presbyters exercised more responsibilities and took distinctive shape as priests. Lastly, deacons also performed certain duties, such as tending to the poor and sick. In the 2nd century, an episcopal structure becomes more visible, and in that century this structure was supported by teaching on apostolic succession, where a bishop becomes the spiritual successor of the previous bishop in a line tracing back to the apostles themselves.\n\nThe diversity of early Christianity can be documented from the New Testament record itself. The Book of Acts admits conflicts between Hebrews and Hellenists, and Jewish Christians and Gentile Christians, and Aramaic speakers and Greek speakers. The letters of Paul, Peter, John, and Jude all testify to intra-Church conflicts over both leadership and theology. In a response to the Gnostic teaching, Irenaeus created the first document describing what is now called apostolic succession.\n\nAs Christianity spread, it acquired certain members from well-educated circles of the Hellenistic world; they sometimes became bishops, but not always. They produced two sorts of works: theological and \"apologetic\", the latter being works aimed at defending the faith by using reason to refute arguments against the veracity of Christianity. These authors are known as the Church Fathers, and study of them is called patristics. Notable early Fathers include Ignatius of Antioch, Polycarp, Justin Martyr, Irenaeus of Lyons, Tertullian, Clement of Alexandria, and Origen of Alexandria.\n\nChristian art only emerged relatively late, and the first known Christian images emerge from about 200 AD, though there is some literary evidence that small domestic images were used earlier. The oldest known Christian paintings are from the Roman Catacombs, dated to about AD 200, and the oldest Christian sculptures are from sarcophagi, dating to the beginning of the 3rd century.\n\nAlthough many Hellenised Jews seem, as at the Dura-Europos synagogue, to have had images of religious figures, the traditional Mosaic prohibition of \"graven images\" no doubt retained some effect, although never proclaimed by theologians. This early rejection of images, and the necessity to hide Christian practise from persecution, leaves us with few archaeological records regarding early Christianity and its evolution.\n\nThe New Testament itself speaks of the importance of maintaining correct (orthodox) doctrine and refuting heresies, showing the antiquity of the concern. Because of the biblical proscription against false prophets, Christianity has always been occupied with orthodoxy. Indeed, one of the main roles of the bishops in the early Church was to determine and retain correct beliefs, and refute contrarian, heretical ones. As the bishops themselves sometimes differed, defining orthodoxy would occupy the Church for some time.\n\nThe earliest controversies were often Christological; that is, they were related to Jesus's divinity or humanity. Prominent alternatives included Docetism which denied the Incarnation (God becoming human). Arianism held that Jesus had lesser status than the Father. Trinitarianism held that the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit were all one being with three hypostases or persons. Many groups, such as the Gnostics, held dualistic beliefs, seeing reality as having two radically opposing parts: matter, seen as evil, and spirit, seen as good. Such views sometimes led to heresies. Most scholars agree that the Bible teaches that both the material and the spiritual worlds were created by God and were therefore both good.\n\nThe development of doctrine, the position of orthodoxy, and the relationship between the various opinions is a matter of continuing academic debate. Since most Christians today subscribe to the doctrines established by the Nicene Creed, modern Christian theologians tend to regard the early debates as a unified orthodox position against a minority of heretics. Other scholars, drawing upon distinctions between Jewish Christians, Pauline Christianity, and other groups such as Marcionites and Montanists, argue that early Christianity was always fragmented, with contemporaneous competing beliefs.\n\nThe Biblical canon is the set of books Christians regard as divinely inspired and thus constituting the Christian Bible. Though the Early Church used the Old Testament according to the canon of the Septuagint (LXX), the apostles did not otherwise leave a defined set of new scriptures; instead the New Testament developed over time.\n\nThe writings attributed to the apostles circulated amongst the earliest Christian communities. The Pauline epistles were circulating in collected form by the end of the 1st century AD. Justin Martyr, in the early 2nd century, mentions the \"memoirs of the apostles\", which Christians called \"gospels\" and which were regarded as on par with the Old Testament, which was written in narrative form where \"in the biblical story God is the protagonist, Satan (or evil people/powers) are the antagonists, and God's people are the agonists\".\n\nA four gospel canon (the \"Tetramorph\") was in place by the time of Irenaeus, c. 160, who refers to it directly. By the early 3rd century, Origen of Alexandria may have been using the same 27 books as in the modern New Testament, though there were still disputes over the canonicity of Hebrews, James, II Peter, II and III John, and Revelation. Such works that were sometimes \"spoken against\" were called \"Antilegomena\". In contrast, the major writings and most of what is now the New Testament were \"Homologoumena\", or universally acknowledged for a long time, since the middle of the 2nd century or before. Likewise the Muratorian fragment shows that by 200 there existed a set of Christian writings similar to the current New Testament.\n\nIn his Easter letter of 367, Athanasius, Bishop of Alexandria, gave the earliest preserved list of exactly the books that would become the New Testament canon. The African Synod of Hippo, in 393, approved the New Testament, as it stands today, a decision repeated by the Council of Carthage (397) and the Council of Carthage (419). These councils were under the authority of St. Augustine, who regarded the canon as already closed. Likewise, Damasus' commissioning of the Latin Vulgate edition of the Bible, c. 383, was instrumental in the fixation of the canon in the West. In 405, Pope Innocent I sent a list of the sacred books to Exuperius, a Gallic bishop.\n\nThese bishops and councils were not defining something new, but \"were ratifying what had already become the mind of the Church.\" Thus, by the 4th century, there existed unanimity in the West concerning the New Testament canon, and by the 5th century the East, with a few exceptions, had come to accept the Book of Revelation and thus had come into harmony on the matter of the canon. Nonetheless, a full dogmatic articulation of the canon was not made until the 1546 Council of Trent for Roman Catholicism, the 1563 Thirty-Nine Articles for the Church of England, the 1647 Westminster Confession of Faith for Calvinism, and the 1672 Synod of Jerusalem for Greek Orthodoxy.\n\nGalerius, who had previously been one of the leading figures in persecution, in 311 issued an edict which ended the persecution. Galerius reigned for another 2 years and was succeeded by an emperor with distinctively \"pro\" Christian leanings, Constantine the Great.\n\nThe Emperor Constantine I was exposed to Christianity by his mother, Helena. At the Battle of Milvian Bridge in 312, Constantine commanded his troops to adorn their shields with the Christian symbol in accordance with a vision that he had had the night before. Victory allowed him to claim the emperorship in the West. In 313, he issued the Edict of Milan, officially legalizing Christian worship.\n\nHow much Christianity Constantine adopted at this point is difficult to discern. Roman coins minted up to eight years later still bore the images of Roman gods. Nonetheless, his accession of was a turning point for the Christian Church. Constantine supported the Church financially, built various basilicas, granted privileges (e.g., exemption from certain taxes) to clergy, promoted Christians to some high offices, and returned confiscated property.\n\nBetween 324 and 330, Constantine built, virtually from scratch, a new imperial capital that came to be named for him: Constantinople. It had overtly Christian architecture, contained churches within the city walls, and had no pagan temples. In accordance with a prevailing custom, Constantine was baptised on his deathbed.\n\nConstantine also played an active role in the leadership of the Church. In 316, he acted as a judge in a North African dispute concerning the Donatist controversy. More significantly, in 325 he summoned the Council of Nicaea, the first Ecumenical Council. Constantine thus established a precedent for the emperor as responsible to God for the spiritual health of their subjects, and thus with a duty to maintain orthodoxy. The emperor was to enforce doctrine, root out heresy, and uphold ecclesiastical unity.\n\nConstantine's son's successor, his nephew Julian, under the influence of his adviser Mardonius, renounced Christianity and embraced a Neo-platonic and mystical form of paganism shocking the Christian establishment. He began reopening pagan temples, modifying them to resemble Christian traditions such as the episcopal structure and public charity (previously unknown in Roman paganism). Julian's short reign ended when he died while campaigning in the East.\n\nLater Church Fathers wrote volumes of theological texts, including Augustine, Gregory Nazianzus, Cyril of Jerusalem, Ambrose of Milan, Jerome, and others. Some, such as John Chrysostom and Athanasius, suffered exile, persecution, or martyrdom from Arian Byzantine Emperors.\n\nA popular doctrine of the 4th century was Arianism, the denial of the divinity of Christ, as propounded by Arius. Though this doctrine was condemned as heresy and eventually eliminated by the Roman Church it remained popular underground for some time. In the late 4th century Ulfilas, a Roman bishop and an Arian, was appointed as the first bishop to the Goths, the Germanic peoples in much of Europe at the borders of and within the Empire. Ulfilas spread Arian Christianity among the Goths firmly establishing the faith among many of the Germanic tribes, thus helping to keep them culturally distinct.\n\nDuring this age, the first Ecumenical Councils were convened. They were mostly concerned with Christological disputes. The First Council of Nicaea (325) and the First Council of Constantinople (381) resulted in condemning Arian teachings as heresy and producing the Nicene Creed.\n\nOn 27 February 380, with the Edict of Thessalonica put forth under Theodosius I, the Roman Empire officially adopted Trinitarian Christianity as its state religion. Prior to this date, Constantius II (337-361) and Valens (364–378) had personally favoured Arian or Semi-Arian forms of Christianity, but Valens' successor Theodosius I supported the Trinitarian doctrine as expounded in the Nicene Creed.\n\nAfter its establishment, the Church adopted the same organisational boundaries as the Empire: geographical provinces, called dioceses, corresponding to imperial governmental territorial division. The bishops, who were located in major urban centres as per pre-legalisation tradition, thus oversaw each diocese. The bishop's location was his \"seat\", or \"see\". Among the sees, five came to hold special eminence: Rome, Constantinople, Jerusalem, Antioch, and Alexandria. The prestige of most of these sees depended in part on their apostolic founders, from whom the bishops were therefore the spiritual successors. Though the bishop of Rome was still held to be the First among equals, Constantinople was second in precedence as the new capital of the empire.\n\nTheodosius I decreed that others not believing in the preserved \"faithful tradition\", such as the Trinity, were to be considered to be practitioners of illegal heresy, and in 385, this resulted in the first case of capital punishment of a heretic, namely Priscillian.\n\nDuring the early 5th century the School of Edessa had taught a Christological perspective stating that Christ's divine and human nature were distinct persons. A particular consequence of this perspective was that Mary could not be properly called the mother of God, but could only be considered the mother of Christ. The most widely known proponent of this viewpoint was the Patriarch of Constantinople Nestorius. Since referring to Mary as the mother of God had become popular in many parts of the Church this became a divisive issue.\n\nThe Roman Emperor Theodosius II called for the Council of Ephesus (431), with the intention of settling the issue. The councils ultimately rejected Nestorius' view. Many churches who followed the Nestorian viewpoint broke away from the Roman Church, causing a major schism. The Nestorian churches were persecuted and many followers fled to the Sasanian Empire where they were accepted.\n\nThe Sasanian (Persian) Empire had many Christian converts early in its history tied closely to the Syriac branch of Christianity. The Empire was officially Zoroastrian and maintained a strict adherence to this faith in part to distinguish itself from the religion of the Roman Empire (originally the pagan Roman religion and then Christianity). Christianity became tolerated in the Sasanian Empire and as the Roman Empire increasingly exiled \"heretics\" during the 4th and 6th centuries, the Sasanian Christian community grew rapidly. By the end of the 5th century the Persian Church was firmly established and had become independent of the Roman Church. This church evolved into what is today known as the Church of the East.\n\nIn 451 the Council of Chalcedon was held to further clarify the Christological issues surrounding Nestorianism. The council ultimately stated that Christ's divine and human nature were separate but both part of a single entity, a viewpoint rejected by many churches who called themselves miaphysites. The resulting schism created a communion of churches, including the Armenian, Syrian, and Egyptian churches. Though efforts were made at reconciliation in the next few centuries the schism remained permanent resulting in what is today known as Oriental Orthodoxy.\n\nMonasticism is a form of asceticism whereby one renounces worldly pursuits and goes off alone as a hermit or joins a tightly organized community. It began early in the Church as a family of similar traditions, modelled upon Scriptural examples and ideals, and with roots in certain strands of Judaism. John the Baptist is seen as an archetypical monk, and monasticism was also inspired by the organisation of the Apostolic community as recorded in Acts 2.\n\nEremetic monks, or hermits, live in solitude, whereas cenobitics live in communities, generally in a monastery, under a rule (or code of practice) and are governed by an abbot. Originally, all Christian monks were hermits, following the example of Anthony the Great. However, the need for some form of organised spiritual guidance lead Pachomius in 318 to organise his many followers in what was to become the first monastery. Soon, similar institutions were established throughout the Egyptian desert as well as the rest of the eastern half of the Roman Empire. Women were especially attracted to the movement.\n\nCentral figures in the development of monasticism were Basil the Great in the East and, in the West, Benedict, who created the famous Rule of Saint Benedict, which would become the most common rule throughout the Middle Ages, and starting point for other monastic rules.\n\nThe transition into the Middle Ages was a gradual and localised process. Rural areas rose as power centres whilst urban areas declined. Although a greater number of Christians remained in the East (Greek areas), important developments were underway in the West (Latin areas) and each took on distinctive shapes.\n\nThe Bishops of Rome, the Popes, were forced to adapt to drastically changing circumstances. Maintaining only nominal allegiance to the Emperor, they were forced to negotiate balances with the \"barbarian rulers\" of the former Roman provinces. In the East the Church maintained its structure and character and evolved more slowly.\n\nThe stepwise loss of Western Roman Empire dominance, replaced with foederati and Germanic kingdoms, coincided with early missionary efforts into areas not controlled by the collapsing empire. Already as early as in the 5th century, missionary activities from Roman Britain into the Celtic areas (current Scotland, Ireland and Wales) produced competing early traditions of Celtic Christianity, that was later reintegrated under the Church in Rome.\n\nProminent missionaries were Saints Patrick, Columba and Columbanus. The Anglo-Saxon tribes that invaded southern Britain some time after the Roman abandonment, were initially pagan, but converted to Christianity by Augustine of Canterbury on the mission of Pope Gregory the Great. Soon becoming a missionary centre, missionaries such as Wilfrid, Willibrord, Lullus and Boniface would begin converting their Saxon relatives in Germania.\n\nThe largely Christian Gallo-Roman inhabitants of Gaul (modern France) were overrun by the Franks in the early 5th century. The native inhabitants were persecuted until the Frankish king Clovis I converted from paganism to Roman Catholicism in 496. Clovis insisted that his fellow nobles follow suit, strengthening his newly established kingdom by uniting the faith of the rulers with that of the ruled.\n\nAfter the rise of the Frankish Kingdom and the stabilizing political conditions, the Western part of the Church increased the missionary activities, supported by the Merovingian kingdom as a means to pacify troublesome neighbour peoples. After the foundation of a church in Utrecht by Willibrord, backlashes occurred when the pagan Frisian king Radbod destroyed many Christian centres between 716 and 719. In 717, the English missionary Boniface was sent to aid Willibrord, re-establishing churches in Frisia continuing missions in Germany.\n\nFollowing a series of heavy military reverses against the Muslims, the Iconoclasm emerged in the early 8th century. In the 720s the Byzantine Emperor Leo III the Isaurian banned the pictorial representation of Christ, saints, and biblical scenes. In the West, Pope Gregory III held two synods at Rome and condemned Leo's actions. The Byzantine Iconoclast Council, held at Hieria in 754, ruled that holy portraits were heretical.\n\nThe movement destroyed much of the Christian church's early artistic history. The iconoclastic movement itself was later defined as heretical in 787 under the Seventh Ecumenical Council, but enjoyed a brief resurgence between 815 and 842.\n\nThe Carolingian Renaissance was a period of intellectual and cultural revival of literature, arts, and scriptural studies during the late 8th and 9th centuries, mostly during the reigns of Charlemagne and Louis the Pious, Frankish rulers. To address the problems of illiteracy among clergy and court scribes, Charlemagne founded schools and attracted the most learned men from all of Europe to his court.\n\nFrom the 6th century onward most of the monasteries in the West were of the Benedictine Order. Owing to the stricter adherence to a reformed Benedictine rule, the abbey of Cluny became the acknowledged leader of western monasticism from the later 10th century. Cluny created a large, federated order in which the administrators of subsidiary houses served as deputies of the abbot of Cluny and answered to him. The Cluniac spirit was a revitalising influence on the Norman church, at its height from the second half of the 10th centuries through the early 12th.\n\nThe next wave of monastic reform came with the Cistercian Movement. The first Cistercian abbey was founded in 1098, at Cîteaux Abbey. The keynote of Cistercian life was a return to a literal observance of the Benedictine rule, rejecting the developments of the Benedictines. The most striking feature in the reform was the return to manual labour, and especially to field-work.\n\nInspired by Bernard of Clairvaux, the primary builder of the Cistercians, they became the main force of technological diffusion in medieval Europe. By the end of the 12th century the Cistercian houses numbered 500, and at its height in the 15th century the order claimed to have close to 750 houses. Most of these were built in wilderness areas, and played a major part in bringing such isolated parts of Europe into economic cultivation\n\nA third level of monastic reform was provided by the establishment of the Mendicant orders. Commonly known as friars, mendicants live under a monastic rule with traditional vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience, but they emphasise preaching, missionary activity, and education, in a secluded monastery. Beginning in the 12th century, the Franciscan order was instituted by the followers of Francis of Assisi, and thereafter the Dominican order was begun by St. Dominic.\n\nThe Investiture Controversy, or Lay investiture controversy, was the most significant conflict between secular and religious powers in medieval Europe. It began as a dispute in the 11th century between the Holy Roman Emperor Henry IV, and Pope Gregory VII concerning who would appoint bishops (investiture). The end of lay investiture threatened to undercut the power of the Empire and the ambitions of noblemen.\n\nBishoprics being merely lifetime appointments, a king could better control their powers and revenues than those of hereditary noblemen. Even better, he could leave the post vacant and collect the revenues, theoretically in trust for the new bishop, or give a bishopric to pay a helpful noble. The Church wanted to end lay investiture to end this and other abuses, to reform the episcopate and provide better pastoral care.\n\nPope Gregory VII issued the \"Dictatus Papae\", which declared that the pope alone could appoint bishops. Henry IV's rejection of the decree lead to his excommunication and a ducal revolt . Eventually Henry received absolution after dramatic public penance (see Road to Canossa), though the Great Saxon Revolt and conflict of investiture continued.\n\nA similar controversy occurred in England between King Henry I and St. Anselm, Archbishop of Canterbury, over investiture and episcopal vacancy. The English dispute was resolved by the Concordat of London, 1107, where the king renounced his claim to invest bishops but continued to require an oath of fealty.\n\nThis was a partial model for the Concordat of Worms (\"Pactum Calixtinum\"), which resolved the Imperial investiture controversy with a compromise that allowed secular authorities some measure of control but granted the selection of bishops to their cathedral canons. As a symbol of the compromise, both ecclesiastical and lay authorities invested bishops with respectively, the staff and the ring.\n\nThe Medieval Inquisition is a series of Inquisitions (Roman Catholic Church bodies charged with suppressing heresy) from around 1184, including the Episcopal Inquisition (1184–1230s) and later the Papal Inquisition (1230s). It was in response to movements within Europe considered apostate or heretical to Western Catholicism, in particular the Cathars and the Waldensians in southern France and northern Italy. These were the first inquisition movements of many that would follow. The inquisitions in combination with the Albigensian Crusade were fairly successful in ending heresy. Historian Thomas F. Madden has written about popular myths regarding the Inquisition.\n\nEarly evangelisation in Scandinavia was begun by Ansgar, Archbishop of Bremen, \"Apostle of the North\". Ansgar, a native of Amiens, was sent with a group of monks to Jutland Denmark in around 820 at the time of the pro-Christian Jutish king Harald Klak. The mission was only partially successful, and Ansgar returned two years later to Germany, after Harald had been driven out of his kingdom.\n\nIn 829 Ansgar went to Birka on Lake Mälaren, Sweden, with his aide friar Witmar, and a small congregation was formed in 831 which included the king's own steward Hergeir. Conversion was slow, however, and most Scandinavian lands were only completely Christianised at the time of rulers such as Saint Canute IV of Denmark and Olaf I of Norway in the years following AD 1000.\n\nThough by 800 Western Europe was ruled entirely by Christian kings, East and Central Europe remained an area of missionary activity. For example, in the 9th century SS. Cyril and Methodius had extensive missionary success in the region among the Slavic peoples, translating the Bible and liturgy into Slavonic. The Baptism of Kiev in 988 spread Christianity throughout Kievan Rus', establishing Christianity among Ukraine, Belarus and Russia.\n\nIn the 9th and 10th centuries, Christianity made great inroads into Eastern Europe, including Bulgaria and Kievan Rus'. The evangelisation, or Christianisation, of the Slavs was initiated by one of Byzantium's most learned churchmen—the Patriarch Photios I of Constantinople (Photius). The Byzantine emperor Michael III chose Cyril and Methodius in response to a request from Rastislav, the king of Moravia who wanted missionaries that could minister to the Moravians in their own language.\n\nThe two brothers spoke the local Slavonic vernacular and translated the Bible and many of the prayer books. As the translations prepared by them were copied by speakers of other dialects, the hybrid literary language Old Church Slavonic was created.\n\nMethodius later went on to convert the Serbs. Some of the disciples returned to Bulgaria where they were welcomed by the Bulgarian Knyaz Boris I who viewed the Slavonic liturgy as a way to counteract Byzantine influence in the country. In a short time the disciples of Cyril and Methodius managed to prepare and instruct the future Slavic clergy into the Glagolitic alphabet and the biblical texts.\n\nBulgaria was officially recognised as a patriarchate by Constantinople in 927, Serbia in 1346, and Russia in 1589. All these nations, however, had been converted long before these dates.\n\nThe missionaries to the East and South Slavs had great success in part because they used the people's native language rather than Latin as the Roman priests did, or Greek.\n\nWhen king Rastislav of Moravia asked Byzantium for teachers who could minister to the Moravians in their own language, Byzantine emperor Michael III chose two brothers, Cyril and Methodius. As their mother was a Slav from the hinterlands of Thessaloniki, the two brothers had been raised speaking the local Slavonic vernacular. Once commissioned, they immediately set about creating an alphabet, the Glagolitic alphabet. They then translated the Scripture and the liturgy into Slavonic.\n\nThis Slavic dialect became the basis of Old Church Slavonic which later evolved into Church Slavonic which is the common liturgical language still used by the Russian Orthodox Church and other Slavic Orthodox Christians.\n\nBulgaria was a pagan country since its establishment in 681 until 864 when Boris I (852–889) converted to Christianity. The reasons for that decision were complex; the most important factors were that Bulgaria was situated between two powerful Christian empires, Byzantium and East Francia; Christian doctrine particularly favoured the position of the monarch as God's representative on Earth, while Boris also saw it as a way to overcome the differences between Bulgars and Slavs.\n\nIn 885 some of the disciples of Cyril and Methodius, including Clement of Ohrid, Naum of Preslav and Angelaruis, returned to Bulgaria where they were welcomed by Boris I who viewed the Slavonic liturgy as a way to counteract Byzantine influence in the country. In a short time they managed to prepare and instruct the future Bulgarian clergy into the Glagolitic alphabet and the biblical texts. As a result of the Council of Preslav in AD 893, Bulgaria expelled its Greek clergy and proclaimed the Old Bulgarian language as the official language of the church and the state.\n\nThe success of the conversion of the Bulgarians facilitated the conversion of other East Slavic peoples, most notably the Rus', predecessors of Belarusians, Russians, and Ukrainians, as well as Rusyns. By the beginning of the 11th century most of the pagan Slavic world, including Rus', Bulgaria and Serbia, had been converted to Byzantine Christianity. The traditional event associated with the conversion of Rus' is the baptism of Vladimir of Kiev in 989. However, Christianity is documented to have predated this event in the city of Kiev and in Georgia. Today the Russian Orthodox Church is the largest of the Orthodox Churches.\n\nThe cracks and fissures in Christian unity which led to the East-West Schism started to become evident as early as the 4th century. Cultural, political, and linguistic differences were often mixed with the theological, leading to schism.\n\nThe transfer of the Roman capital to Constantinople inevitably brought mistrust, rivalry, and even jealousy to the relations of the two great sees, Rome and Constantinople. It was easy for Rome to be jealous of Constantinople at a time when it was rapidly losing its political prominence. Estrangement was also helped along by the German invasions in the West, which effectively weakened contacts. The rise of Islam with its conquest of most of the Mediterranean coastline (not to mention the arrival of the pagan Slavs in the Balkans at the same time) further intensified this separation by driving a physical wedge between the two worlds. The once homogeneous unified world of the Mediterranean was fast vanishing. Communication between the Greek East and Latin West by the 7th century had become dangerous and practically ceased.\n\nTwo basic problems were involved: the nature of the primacy of the bishop of Rome and the theological implications of adding a clause to the Nicene Creed, known as the \"Filioque\" clause. These doctrinal issues were first openly discussed in Photius's patriarchate.\n\nBy the 5th century, Christendom was divided into a pentarchy of five sees with Rome accorded a primacy. The four Eastern sees of the pentarchy considered this determined by canonical decision and not entailing hegemony of any one local church or patriarchate over the others. However, Rome began to interpret her primacy in terms of sovereignty, as a God-given right involving universal jurisdiction in the Church. The collegial and conciliar nature of the Church, in effect, was gradually abandoned in favour of supremacy of unlimited papal power over the entire Church. These ideas were finally given systematic expression in the West during the Gregorian Reform movement of the 11th century.\n\nThe Eastern churches viewed Rome's understanding of the nature of episcopal power as being in direct opposition to the Church's essentially conciliar structure and thus saw the two ecclesiologies as mutually antithetical. For them, specifically, Simon Peter's primacy could never be the exclusive prerogative of any one bishop. All bishops must, like St. Peter, confess Jesus as the Christ and, as such, all are Peter's successors. The churches of the East gave the Roman See primacy but not supremacy, the Pope being the first among equals but not infallible and not with absolute authority.\n\nThe other major irritant to Eastern Christendom was the Western use of the \"Filioque\" clause—meaning \"and the Son\"—in the Nicene Creed . This too developed gradually and entered the Creed over time. The issue was the addition by the West of the Latin clause \"Filioque\" to the Creed, as in \"the Holy Spirit... who proceeds from the Father \"and the Son\"\", where the original Creed, sanctioned by the councils and still used today by the Eastern Orthodox simply states \"the Holy Spirit, the Lord and Giver of Life, who proceeds from the Father.\" The Eastern Church argued that the phrase had been added unilaterally, and therefore illegitimately, since the East had never been consulted.\n\nIn the final analysis, only another ecumenical council could introduce such an alteration. Indeed, the councils, which drew up the original Creed, had expressly forbidden any subtraction or addition to the text. In addition to this ecclesiological issue, the Eastern Church also considered the\" Filioque\" clause unacceptable on dogmatic grounds. Theologically, the Latin interpolation was unacceptable since it implied that the Spirit now had two sources of origin and procession, the Father and the Son, rather than the Father alone.\n\nIn the 9th century AD, a controversy arose between Eastern (Byzantine, Greek Orthodox) and Western (Latin, Roman Catholic) Christianity that was precipitated by the opposition of the Roman Pope John VII to the appointment by the Byzantine emperor Michael III of Photios I to the position of patriarch of Constantinople. Photios was refused an apology by the pope for previous points of dispute between the East and West. Photios refused to accept the supremacy of the pope in Eastern matters or accept the \"Filioque\" clause. The Latin delegation at the council of his consecration pressed him to accept the clause in order to secure their support.\n\nThe controversy also involved Eastern and Western ecclesiastical jurisdictional rights in the Bulgarian church, as well as a doctrinal dispute over the \"Filioque\" (\"and from the Son\") clause. That had been added to the Nicene Creed by the Latin church, which was later the theological breaking point in the ultimate Great East-West Schism in the 11th century.\n\nPhotios did provide concession on the issue of jurisdictional rights concerning Bulgaria and the papal legates made do with his return of Bulgaria to Rome. This concession, however, was purely nominal, as Bulgaria's return to the Byzantine rite in 870 had already secured for it an autocephalous church. Without the consent of Boris I of Bulgaria, the papacy was unable to enforce any of its claims.\n\nThe East-West Schism, or Great Schism, separated the Church into Western (Latin) and Eastern (Greek) branches, i.e., Western Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy. It was the first major division since certain groups in the East rejected the decrees of the Council of Chalcedon (see Oriental Orthodoxy), and was far more significant. Though normally dated to 1054, the East-West Schism was actually the result of an extended period of estrangement between Latin and Greek Christendom over the nature of papal primacy and certain doctrinal matters like the \"Filioque\", but intensified by cultural and linguistic differences.\n\nThe \"official\" schism in 1054 was the excommunication of Patriarch Michael Cerularius of Constantinople, followed by his excommunication of papal legates. Attempts at reconciliation were made in 1274 (by the Second Council of Lyon) and in 1439 (by the Council of Basel), but in each case the eastern hierarchs who consented to the unions were repudiated by the Orthodox as a whole, though reconciliation was achieved between the West and what are now called the \"Eastern Rite Catholic Churches\". More recently, in 1965 the mutual excommunications were rescinded by the Pope and the Patriarch of Constantinople, though schism remains.\n\nBoth groups are descended from the Early Church, both acknowledge the apostolic succession of each other's bishops, and the validity of each other's sacraments. Though both acknowledge the primacy of the Bishop of Rome, Eastern Orthodoxy understands this as a primacy of honour with limited or no ecclesiastical authority in other dioceses.\n\nThe Orthodox East perceived the Papacy as taking on monarchical characteristics that were not in line with the church's tradition.\n\nThe final breach is often considered to have arisen after the capture and sacking of Constantinople by the Fourth Crusade in 1204. Crusades against Christians in the East by Roman Catholic crusaders was not exclusive to the Mediterranean though (see also the Northern Crusades and the Battle of the Ice). The sacking of Constantinople and the Church of Holy Wisdom and establishment of the Latin Empire as a seeming attempt to supplant the Orthodox Byzantine Empire in 1204 is viewed with some rancour to the present day.\n\nMany in the East saw the actions of the West as a prime determining factor in the weakening of Byzantium. This led to the Empire's eventual conquest and fall to Islam. In 2004, Pope John Paul II extended a formal apology for the sacking of Constantinople in 1204; the apology was formally accepted by Patriarch Bartholomew of Constantinople. Many things that were stolen during this time: holy relics, riches, and many other items, are still held in various Western European cities, particularly Venice, Italy.\n\nGenerally, the Crusades refer to the campaigns in the Holy Land against Muslim forces sponsored by the Papacy. There were other crusades against Islamic forces in southern Spain, southern Italy, and Sicily, as well as the campaigns of Teutonic Knights against pagan strongholds in North-eastern Europe (see Northern Crusades). A few crusades were waged within Christendom against groups that were considered heretical and schismatic (also see the Battle of the Ice and the Albigensian Crusade).\n\nThe Holy Land had been part of the Roman Empire, and thus Byzantine Empire, until the Islamic conquests of the 7th and 8th centuries. Thereafter, Christians had generally been permitted to visit the sacred places in the Holy Land until 1071, when the Seljuk Turks closed Christian pilgrimages and assailed the Byzantines, defeating them at the Battle of Manzikert.\n\nEmperor Alexius I asked for aid from Pope Urban II (1088–1099) for help against Islamic aggression. He probably expected money from the pope for the hiring of mercenaries. Instead, Urban II called upon the knights of Christendom in a speech made at the Council of Clermont on 27 November 1095, combining the idea of pilgrimage to the Holy Land with that of waging a holy war against infidels.\n\nThe First Crusade captured Antioch in 1099 and then Jerusalem. The Second Crusade occurred in 1145 when Edessa was retaken by Islamic forces. Jerusalem would be held until 1187 and the Third Crusade, famous for the battles between Richard the Lionheart and Saladin. \n\nThe Fourth Crusade, begun by Innocent III in 1202, intended to retake the Holy Land but was soon subverted by Venetians who used the forces to sack the Christian city of Zara. When the crusaders arrived in Constantinople, they sacked the city and other parts of Asia Minor and established the Latin Empire of Constantinople in Greece and Asia Minor. This was effectively the last crusade sponsored by the papacy, with later crusades being sponsored by individuals.\n\nJerusalem was held by the crusaders for nearly a century, and other strongholds in the Near East would remain in Christian possession much longer. The crusades in the Holy Land ultimately failed to establish permanent Christian kingdoms. Islamic expansion into Europe would renew and remain a threat for centuries culminating in the campaigns of Suleiman the Magnificent in the 16th century.\n\nCrusades in southern Spain, southern Italy, and Sicily eventually lead to the demise of Islamic power in Europe. The Teutonic Knights expanded Christian domains in Eastern Europe, and the much less frequent crusades within Christendom, such as the Albigensian Crusade, achieved their goal of maintaining doctrinal unity.\n\nIn 1337 Hesychasm—a mystical teaching at Mount Athos came under attack from Barlaam of Calabria, an abbot in Constantinople. Barlaam propounded a more intellectual and propositional approach to the knowledge of God than the Hesychasts taught. Hesychasm is a form of constant purposeful prayer or experiential prayer, explicitly referred to as contemplation focusing on the idea of stillness and the characteristic mystical idea of light as the vehicle for knowing God.\n\nGregory Palamas, afterwards Archbishop of Thessalonica, defended Hesychasm. Several synods took one position or the other until in 1351 at a synod under the presidency of the Emperor John VI Cantacuzenus, Hesychast doctrine was established as the doctrine of the Orthodox Church. the theology was especially attractive in the East because it validated the use of icons as a vehicle for contemplation of divine light.\n\nIn 1453, Constantinople fell to the Ottoman Empire. By this time Egypt had been under Muslim control for some seven centuries, but Orthodoxy was very strong in Russia which had recently acquired an autocephalous status; and thus Moscow called itself the Third Rome, as the cultural heir of Constantinople.\n\nUnder Ottoman rule, the Greek Orthodox Church acquired substantial power as an autonomous \"millet\". The ecumenical patriarch was the religious and administrative ruler of the entire \"Greek Orthodox nation\" (Ottoman administrative unit), which encompassed all the Eastern Orthodox subjects of the Empire.\n\nEastern Christians fleeing Constantinople, and the Greek manuscripts they carried with them, is one of the factors that prompted the literary renaissance in the West at about this time.\n\nAs a result of the Ottoman conquest of the Byzantine Empire in 1453, and the Fall of Constantinople, the entire Orthodox communion of the Balkans and the Near East became suddenly isolated from the West. For the next four hundred years, it would be confined within a hostile Islamic world, with which it had little in common religiously or culturally. The Russian Orthodox Church was the only part of the Orthodox communion which remained outside the control of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nIt is, in part, due to this geographical and intellectual confinement that the voice of Eastern Orthodoxy was not heard during the Reformation in 16th-century Europe. As a result, this important theological debate often seems strange and distorted to the Orthodox. They never took part in it and thus neither Reformation nor Counter-Reformation is part of their theological framework.\n\nThe new Ottoman government that conquered the Byzantine Empire followed Islamic law when dealing with the conquered Christian population. Christians were officially tolerated as People of the Book. As such, the Church's canonical and hierarchical organisation were not significantly disrupted and its administration continued to function. One of the first things that Mehmet the Conqueror did was to allow the Church to elect a new patriarch, Gennadius Scholarius.\n\nBecause Islamic law makes no distinction between nationality and religion, all Christians, regardless of their language or nationality, were considered a single millet, or nation. The patriarch, as the highest-ranking hierarch, was thus invested with civil and religious authority and made ethnarch, head of the entire Christian Orthodox population. This meant that all Orthodox Churches within Ottoman territory were under the control of Constantinople. However, these rights and privileges, including freedom of worship and religious organisation, were often established in principle but seldom corresponded to reality. Christians were viewed as second-class citizens, and the legal protections they depended upon were subject to the whims of the Sultan and the Sublime Porte.\n\nUnder Ottoman occupation the Church could no longer bear witness to Christ. Christian missionary work among Muslims was illegal and dangerous, whereas conversion to Islam was entirely legal and permissible. Converts to Islam who returned to Orthodoxy were put to death as apostates. No new churches could be built and even the ringing of church bells was prohibited. The Hagia Sophia and the Parthenon, which had been Christian churches for nearly a millennium, were converted into mosques. Education of the clergy and the Christian population either ceased altogether or was reduced to the most rudimentary elements. Violent persecutions of Christians were common, and reached their climax in the Armenian, Assyrian, and Greek genocides.\n\nThe Orthodox Church found itself subject to the Turkish system of corruption. The patriarchal throne was frequently sold to the highest bidder, while new patriarchal investiture was accompanied by heavy payment to the government. In order to recoup their losses, patriarchs and bishops taxed the local parishes and their clergy.\n\nFew patriarchs between the 15th and the 19th centuries died a natural death while in office. The forced abdications, exiles, hangings, drownings, and poisonings of patriarchs are well documented. The hierarchy's positions were often dangerous as well. The hanging of patriarch Gregory V from the gate of the patriarchate on Easter Sunday 1821 was accompanied by the execution of two metropolitans and twelve bishops.\n\nThe Avignon Papacy, sometimes referred to as the Babylonian Captivity, was a period from 1309 to 1378 during which seven Popes resided in Avignon, in modern-day France. The period was one of conflict and controversy during which French Kings held considerable sway over the Papacy and rulers across Europe felt sidelined by the new French-centric papacy.\n\nTroubles reached their peak in 1378 when, Gregory XI died while visiting Rome. A papal conclave met in Rome and elected Urban VI, an Italian. Urban soon alienated the French cardinals, and they held a second conclave electing Robert of Geneva to succeed Gregory XI, beginning the Western Schism.\n\nThe Western Schism, or Papal Schism, was a prolonged period of crisis with two or more claimants to the See of Rome. The conflict was political rather than doctrinal.\n\nIn 1309, Pope Clement V, due to political considerations, moved to Avignon in southern France. For sixty-nine years popes resided in Avignon rather than Rome. This was a of confusion and of political animosity as the prestige and influence of Rome waned without a resident pontiff. Though Pope Gregory XI, a Frenchman, returned to Rome in 1378, the strife between Italian and French factions intensified.\n\nIn 1378 the conclave elected an Italian from Naples, Pope Urban VI. He soon alienated the French cardinals, who withdrew to a conclave of their own, asserting the previous election was invalid, and elected one of their own, Robert of Geneva, who took the name Pope Clement VII. By 1379, he was back in the palace of popes in Avignon, while Urban VI remained in Rome.\n\nFor nearly forty years, there were two papal curias and two sets of cardinals, each electing a new pope for Rome or Avignon when death created a vacancy. Each pope lobbied for support among kings and princes who played them off against each other. In 1409, a council at Pisa to resolve the issue declared both existing popes to be schismatic (Gregory XII from Rome, Benedict XIII from Avignon) and appointed a new one, Alexander V. The existing popes refused to resign and thus there were three papal claimants. Another council was convened in 1414, the Council of Constance.\n\nIn March 1415 the Pisan pope John XXIII fled from Constance in disguise. He was brought back a prisoner and deposed in May. The Roman pope, Gregory XII, resigned voluntarily in July. The Avignon pope, Benedict XIII, refused to come to Constance, nor would he consider resignation. The council deposed him in July 1417 and elected Pope Martin V as pope in November, having finally cleared the field of popes and antipopes.\n\nJohn Wycliffe (or Wyclif) (1330–1384) was an English scholar and heretic best known for denouncing the corruptions of the Church, and his sponsoring the first translation of the Bible from Latin into English. He was a precursor of the Protestant Reformation. He emphasized the supremacy of the Bible, and called for a direct relationship between man and God, without interference by priests and bishops. His followers, called Lollards, faced persecution by the Church of England. They went underground for over a century and played a role in the English Reformation.\n\nJan Hus (or Huss) (1369?–1415) a Czech theologian in Prague, was influenced by Wycliffe and spoke out against the corruptions he saw in the Church; his continued defiance led to his excommunication and condemnation by the Council of Constance, which also condemned John Wycliff. Hus was executed in 1415, but his followers organized a peasants' war, 1419–1436, that was put down by the Empire with great brutality. Hus was a forerunner of the Protestant Reformation and his memory has become a powerful symbol of Czech culture in Bohemia.\n\nThe Renaissance was a period of great cultural change and achievement, marked in Italy by a classical orientation and an increase of wealth through mercantile trade. The City of Rome, the Papacy, and the Papal States were all affected by the Renaissance. On the one hand, it was a time of great artistic patronage and architectural magnificence, where the Church patroned such artists as Michelangelo, Brunelleschi, Bramante, Raphael, Fra Angelico, Donatello, and da Vinci. On the other hand, wealthy Italian families often secured episcopal offices, including the papacy, for their own members, some of whom were known for immorality, such as Alexander VI and Sixtus IV.\n\nIn addition to being the head of the Church, the Pope became one of Italy's most important secular rulers, and pontiffs such as Julius II often waged campaigns to protect and expand their temporal domains. Furthermore, the popes, in a spirit of refined competition with other Italian lords, spent lavishly both on private luxuries but also on public works, repairing or building churches, bridges, and a magnificent system of aqueducts in Rome that still function today.\n\nFrom 1505 to 1626, St. Peter's Basilica, perhaps the most recognised Christian church, was built on the site of the old Constantinian basilica. It was also a time of increased contact with Greek culture, opening up new avenues of learning, especially in the fields of philosophy, poetry, classics, rhetoric, and political science, fostering a spirit of humanism–all of which would influence the Church.\n\nIn the early 16th century, movements were begun by two theologians, Martin Luther and Huldrych Zwingli, that aimed to reform the Church; these reformers are distinguished from previous ones in that they considered the root of corruptions to be doctrinal (rather than simply a matter of moral weakness or lack of ecclesiastical discipline) and thus they aimed to change contemporary doctrines to accord with what they perceived to be the \"true gospel.\" The word \"Protestant\" is derived from the Latin \"protestatio\" meaning \"declaration\" which refers to the letter of protestation by Lutheran princes against the decision of the Diet of Speyer in 1529, which reaffirmed the edict of the Diet of Worms against the Reformation. Since that time, the term has been used in many different senses, but most often as a general term refers to Western Christianity that is not subject to papal authority. The term \"Protestant\" was not originally used by Reformation era leaders; instead, they called themselves \"evangelical\", emphasising the \"return to the true gospel (Greek: \"euangelion\").\"\n\nThe beginning of the Protestant Reformation is generally identified with Martin Luther and the posting of the 95 Theses on the castle church in Wittenberg, Germany. Early protest was against corruptions such as simony, episcopal vacancies, and the sale of indulgences. The Protestant position, however, would come to incorporate doctrinal changes such as sola scriptura and sola fide. The three most important traditions to emerge directly from the Protestant Reformation were the Lutheran, Reformed (Calvinist, Presbyterian, etc.), and Anglican traditions, though the latter group identifies as both \"Reformed\" and \"Catholic\", and some subgroups reject the classification as \"Protestant.\"\n\nThe Protestant Reformation may be divided into two distinct but basically simultaneous movements, the Magisterial Reformation and the Radical Reformation. The Magisterial Reformation involved the alliance of certain theological teachers (Latin: \"magistri\") such as Luther, Zwingli, Calvin, Cranmer, etc. with secular magistrates who cooperated in the reformation of Christendom. Radical Reformers, besides forming communities outside state sanction, often employed more extreme doctrinal change, such as the rejection of tenets of the Councils of Nicaea and Chalcedon. Often the division between magisterial and radical reformers was as or more violent than the general Catholic and Protestant hostilities.\n\nThe Protestant Reformation spread almost entirely within the confines of Northern Europe, but did not take hold in certain northern areas such as Ireland and parts of Germany. By far the magisterial reformers were more successful and their changes more widespread than the radical reformers. The Catholic response to the Protestant Reformation is known as the Counter Reformation, or Catholic Reformation, which resulted in a reassertion of traditional doctrines and the emergence of new religious orders aimed at both moral reform and new missionary activity. The Counter Reformation reconverted approximately 33% of Northern Europe to Catholicism and initiated missions in South and Central America, Africa, Asia, and even China and Japan. Protestant expansion outside of Europe occurred on a smaller scale through colonisation of North America and areas of Africa.\n\nMartin Luther was an Augustinian friar and professor at the University of Wittenberg. In 1517, he published a list of 95 Theses, or points to be debated, concerning the illicitness of selling indulgences. Luther had a particular disdain for Aristotelian philosophy, and as he began developing his own theology, he increasingly came into conflict with Thomistic scholars, most notably Cardinal Cajetan. Soon, Luther had begun to develop his theology of justification, or process by which one is \"made right\" (righteous) in the eyes of God. In Catholic theology, one is made righteous by a progressive infusion of grace accepted through faith and cooperated with through good works. Luther's doctrine of justification differed from Catholic theology in that justification rather meant \"the declaring of one to be righteous\", where God imputes the merits of Christ upon one who remains without inherent merit. In this process, good works are more of an unessential byproduct that contribute nothing to one's own state of righteousness. Conflict between Luther and leading theologians lead to his gradual rejection of authority of the Church hierarchy. In 1520, he was condemned for heresy by the papal bull \"Exsurge Domine\", which he burned at Wittenberg along with books of canon law.\n\nUlrich Zwingli was a Swiss scholar and parish priest who was likewise influential in the beginnings of the Protestant Reformation. Zwingli claimed that his theology owed nothing to Luther, and that he had developed it in 1516, before Luther's famous protest, though his doctrine of justification was remarkably similar to that of the German friar. In 1518, Zwingli was given a post at the wealthy collegiate church of the Grossmünster in Zürich, where he would remain until his death at a relatively young age. Soon he had risen to prominence in the city, and when political tension developed between most of Switzerland and the Catholic Habsburg Emperor Charles V. In this environment, Zwingli began preaching his version of reform, with certain points as the aforementioned doctrine of justification, but others (with which Luther vehemently disagreed) such as the position that veneration of icons was actually idolatry and thus a violation of the first commandment, and the denial of the real presence in the Eucharist. Soon the city council had accepted Zwingli's doctrines and Zurich became a focal point of more radical reforming movements, and certain admirers and followers of Zwingli pushed his message and reforms far further than even he had intended, such as rejecting infant baptism. This split between Luther and Zwingli formed the essence of the Protestant division between Lutheran and Reformed theology. Meanwhile, political tensions increased; Zwingli and the Zurich leadership imposed an economic blockade on the inner Catholic states of Switzerland, which led to a battle in which Zwingli, in full armor, was slain along with his troops.\n\nJohn Calvin was a French cleric and doctor of law turned Protestant reformer. He belonged to the second generation of the Reformation, publishing his theological tome, the \"Institutes of the Christian Religion\", in 1536 (later revised), and establishing himself as a leader of the Reformed church in Geneva, which became an \"unofficial capital\" of Reformed Christianity in the second half of the 16th century. He exerted a remarkable amount of authority in the city and over the city council, such that he has (rather ignominiously) been called a \"Protestant pope.\" Calvin established an eldership together with a \"consistory\", where pastors and the elders established matters of religious discipline for the Genevan population. Calvin's theology is best known for his doctrine of (double) predestination, which held that God had, from all eternity, providentially foreordained who would be saved (the elect) and likewise who would be damned (the reprobate). Predestination was not the dominant idea in Calvin's works, but it would seemingly become so for many of his Reformed successors.\n\nUnlike other reform movements, the English Reformation began by royal influence. Henry VIII considered himself a thoroughly Catholic King, and in 1521 he defended the papacy against Luther in a book he commissioned entitled, \"The Defence of the Seven Sacraments\", for which Pope Leo X awarded him the title \"Fidei Defensor\" (Defender of the Faith). However, the king came into conflict with the papacy when he wished to annul his marriage with Catherine of Aragon, for which he needed papal sanction. Catherine, among many other noble relations, was the aunt of Emperor Charles V, the papacy's most significant secular supporter. The ensuing dispute eventually lead to a break from Rome and the declaration of the King of England as head of the English Church. England would later experience periods of frenetic and eclectic reforms contrasted by periods led by staunch conservatives. Monarchs such as Edward VI, Mary I, Elizabeth I, and Archbishops of Canterbury such as Thomas Cranmer and William Laud pushed the Church of England in many directions over the course of only a few generations. What emerged was a state church that considered itself both \"Reformed\" and \"Catholic\" but not \"Roman\" (and hesitated from the title \"Protestant\"), and other \"unofficial\" more radical movements such as the Puritans.\n\nThe Counter-Reformation, or Catholic Reformation, was the response of the Catholic Church to the Protestant Reformation. The essence of the Counter-Reformation was a renewed conviction in traditional practices and the upholding of Catholic doctrine as the source of ecclesiastic and moral reform, and the answer to halt the spread of Protestantism. Thus it experienced the founding of new religious orders, such as the Jesuits, the establishment of seminaries for the proper training of priests, renewed worldwide missionary activity, and the development of new yet orthodox forms of spirituality, such as that of the Spanish mystics and the French school of spirituality. The entire process was spearheaded by the Council of Trent, which clarified and reasserted doctrine, issued dogmatic definitions, and produced the \"Roman Catechism\".\n\nThough Ireland, Spain, France, and elsewhere featured significantly in the Counter-Reformation, its heart was Italy and the various popes of the time, who established the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" (the list of prohibited books) and the Roman Inquisition, a system of juridical tribunals that prosecuted heresy and related offences. The Papacy of St. Pius V (1566–1572) was known not only for its focus on halting heresy and worldly abuses within the Church, but also for its focus on improving popular piety in a determined effort to stem the appeal of Protestantism. Pius began his pontificate by giving large alms to the poor, charity, and hospitals, and the pontiff was known for consoling the poor and sick, and supporting missionaries. The activities of these pontiffs coincided with a rediscovery of the ancient Christian catacombs in Rome. As Diarmaid MacCulloch stated, \"Just as these ancient martyrs were revealed once more, Catholics were beginning to be martyred afresh, both in mission fields overseas and in the struggle to win back Protestant northern Europe: the catacombs proved to be an inspiration for many to action and to heroism.\"\n\nThe Council of Trent (1545–1563), initiated by Pope Paul III (1534–1549) addressed issues of certain ecclesiastical corruptions such as simony, absenteeism, nepotism, and other abuses, as well as the reassertion of traditional practices and the dogmatic articulation of the traditional doctrines of the Church, such as the episcopal structure, clerical celibacy, the seven Sacraments, transubstantiation (the belief that during mass the consecrated bread and wine truly become the body and blood of Christ), the veneration of relics, icons, and saints (especially the Blessed Virgin Mary), the necessity of both faith and good works for salvation, the existence of purgatory and the issuance (but not the sale) of indulgences, etc. In other words, all Protestant doctrinal objections and changes were uncompromisingly rejected. The Council also fostered an interest in education for parish priests to increase pastoral care. Milan's Archbishop Saint Charles Borromeo (1538–1584) set an example by visiting the remotest parishes and instilling high standards.\n\nCatholic missions were carried to new places beginning with the new Age of Discovery, and the Roman Catholic Church established a number of Missions in the Americas and other colonies in order to spread Christianity in the New World and to convert the indigenous peoples. At the same time, missionaries such as Francis Xavier as well as other Jesuits, Augustinians, Franciscans and Dominicans were moving into Asia and the Far East. The Portuguese sent missions into Africa. While some of these missions were associated with imperialism and oppression, others (notably Matteo Ricci's Jesuit mission to China) were relatively peaceful and focused on integration rather than cultural imperialism.\n\nThe Galileo affair, in which Galileo Galilei came into conflict with the Roman Catholic Church over his support of Copernican astronomy, is often considered a defining moment in the history of the relationship between religion and science.\n\nIn 1610, Galileo published his \"Sidereus Nuncius (Starry Messenger)\", describing the surprising observations that he had made with the new telescope. These and other discoveries exposed major difficulties with the understanding of the Heavens that had been held since antiquity, and raised new interest in radical teachings such as the heliocentric theory of Copernicus.\n\nIn reaction, many scholars maintained that the motion of the Earth and immobility of the Sun were heretical, as they contradicted some accounts given in the Bible as understood at that time. Galileo's part in the controversies over theology, astronomy and philosophy culminated in his trial and sentencing in 1633, on a grave suspicion of heresy.\n\nThe most famous colonisation by Protestants in the New World was that of English Puritans in North America. Unlike the Spanish or French, the English colonists made surprisingly little effort to evangelise the native peoples. The Puritans, or Pilgrims, left England so that they could live in an area with Puritanism established as the exclusive civic religion. Though they had left England because of the suppression of their religious practice, most Puritans had thereafter originally settled in the Low Countries but found the licentiousness there, where the state hesitated from enforcing religious practice, as unacceptable, and thus they set out for the New World and the hopes of a Puritan utopia.\n\nThis is the period from the Industrial revolution and the French Revolution until the mid 19th century.\n\nSee the French Republican Calendar and anti-clerical measures. See also the Holy League, the Battle of Vienna, Cardinal Richelieu, and Louis XIV of France.\n\nRevivalism refers to the Calvinist and Wesleyan revival, called the Great Awakening, in North America which saw the development of evangelical Congregationalist, Presbyterian, Baptist, and new Methodist churches.\n\nThe First Great Awakening was a wave of religious enthusiasm among Protestants in the American colonies c. 1730–1740, emphasising the traditional Reformed virtues of Godly preaching, rudimentary liturgy, and a deep sense of personal guilt and redemption by Christ Jesus. Historian Sydney E. Ahlstrom saw it as part of a \"great international Protestant upheaval\" that also created Pietism in Germany, the Evangelical Revival, and Methodism in England. It centred on reviving the spirituality of established congregations, and mostly affected Congregational, Presbyterian, Dutch Reformed, German Reformed, Baptist, and Methodist churches, while also spreading within the slave population. The Second Great Awakening (1800–1830s), unlike the first, focused on the unchurched and sought to instil in them a deep sense of personal salvation as experienced in revival meetings. It also sparked the beginnings of groups such as the Mormons, the Restoration Movement and the Holiness movement. The Third Great Awakening began from 1857 and was most notable for taking the movement throughout the world, especially in English speaking countries. The final group to emerge from the \"great awakenings\" in North America was Pentecostalism, which had its roots in the Methodist, Wesleyan, and Holiness movements, and began in 1906 on Azusa Street, in Los Angeles. Pentecostalism would later lead to the Charismatic movement.\n\nRestorationism refers to the belief that a purer form of Christianity should be restored using the early church as a model. In many cases, restorationist groups believed that contemporary Christianity, in all its forms, had deviated from the true, original Christianity, which they then attempted to \"Reconstruct\", often using the Book of Acts as a \"guidebook\" of sorts. Restorationists do not usually describe themselves as \"reforming\" a Christian church continuously existing from the time of Jesus, but as \"restoring\" the Church that they believe was lost at some point. \"Restorationism\" is often used to describe the Stone-Campbell Restoration Movement.\n\nThe term \"Restorationist\" is also used to describe the Jehovah's Witness Movement, founded in the late 1870s by Charles Taze Russell\n\nThe term \"Restorationist\" is also used to describe the Latter Day Saint movement, including The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), the Community of Christ and numerous other Latter Day Saints sects. Latter Day Saints, also known as Mormons, believe that Joseph Smith was chosen to restore the original organization established by Jesus, now \"in its fullness\", rather than to reform the church.\n\nThe history of the Church from the mid 19th century around period of the revolutions of 1848 to today.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church held a privileged position in the Russian Empire, expressed in the motto of the late Empire from 1833: Orthodoxy, Autocracy, and Populism. Nevertheless, the Church reform of Peter I in the early 18th century had placed the Orthodox authorities under the control of the Tsar. An official (titled Ober-Procurator) appointed by the Tsar himself ran the committee which governed the Church between 1721 and 1918: the Most Holy Synod.\n\nThe Church became involved in the various campaigns of russification, and was accused of involvement in anti-Jewish pogroms. In the case of anti-Semitism and the anti-Jewish pogroms, no evidence is given of the direct participation of the Church, and many Russian Orthodox clerics, including senior hierarchs, openly defended persecuted Jews, at least from the second half of the 19th century.\nAlso, the Church has no official position on Judaism as such.\n\nThe Bolsheviks and other Russian revolutionaries saw the Church, like the Tsarist state, as an enemy of the people.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox Church collaborated with the White Army in the Russian Civil War (see White movement) after the October Revolution. This may have further strengthened the Bolshevik animus against the church.\n\nAfter the October Revolution of 7 November 1917 (25 October Old Calendar) there was a movement within the Soviet Union to unite all of the people of the world under Communist rule (see Communist International). This included the Eastern European bloc countries as well as the Balkan States. Since some of these Slavic states tied their ethnic heritage to their ethnic churches, both the peoples and their church where targeted by the Soviet. Criticism of atheism was strictly forbidden and sometimes lead to imprisonment.\n\nThe Soviet Union was the first state to have as an ideological objective the elimination of religion. Toward that end, the Communist regime confiscated church property, ridiculed religion, harassed believers, and propagated anti-religious atheistic propaganda in the schools. Actions toward particular religions, however, were determined by State interests, and most organised religions were never outlawed.\nSome actions against Orthodox priests and believers along with execution included torture being sent to prison camps, labour camps or mental hospitals.\nThe result of state atheism was to transform the Church into a persecuted and martyred Church. In the first five years after the Bolshevik revolution, 28 bishops and 1,200 priests were executed. This included people like the Grand Duchess Elizabeth Fyodorovna who was at this point a monastic. Along with her murder was Grand Duke Sergei Mikhailovich Romanov; the Princes Ioann Konstantinovich, Konstantin Konstantinovich, Igor Konstantinovich and Vladimir Pavlovich Paley; Grand Duke Sergei's secretary, Fyodor Remez; and Varvara Yakovleva, a sister from the Grand Duchess Elizabeth's convent. They were herded into the forest, pushed into an abandoned mineshaft and grenades were then hurled into the mineshaft. Her remains were buried in Jerusalem, in the Church of Maria Magdalene.\nThe main target of the anti-religious campaign in the 1920s and 1930s was the Russian Orthodox Church, which had the largest number of faithful. Nearly its entire clergy, and many of its believers, were shot or sent to labor camps. Theological schools were closed, and church publications were prohibited. In the period between 1927 and 1940, the number of Orthodox Churches in the Russian Republic fell from 29,584 to fewer than 500. Between 1917 and 1940, 130,000 Orthodox priests were arrested. Father Pavel Florensky was one of the New-martyrs of this particular period.\n\nAfter Nazi Germany's attack on the Soviet Union in 1941, Joseph Stalin revived the Russian Orthodox Church to intensify patriotic support for the war effort. By 1957 about 22,000 Russian Orthodox churches had become active. But in 1959 Nikita Khrushchev initiated his own campaign against the Russian Orthodox Church and forced the closure of about 12,000 churches. By 1985 fewer than 7,000 churches remained active.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, in addition to the methodical closing and destruction of churches, the charitable and social work formerly done by ecclesiastical authorities was taken over by the state. As with all private property, Church owned property was confiscated into public use. The few places of worship left to the Church were legally viewed as state property which the government permitted the church to use. After the advent of state funded universal education, the Church was not permitted to carry on educational, instructional activity for children. For adults, only training for church-related occupations was allowed. Outside of sermons during the celebration of the divine liturgy it could not instruct or evangelise to the faithful or its youth. Catechism classes, religious schools, study groups, Sunday schools and religious publications were all banned. This persecution continued, even after the death of Stalin until the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991. This caused many religious tracts to be circulated as illegal literature or samizdat.\nSince the fall of the Soviet Union there have been many New-martyrs added as Saints from the yoke.\n\nOne of the most striking developments in modern historical Orthodoxy is the dispersion of Orthodox Christians to the West. Emigration from Greece and the Near East in the last hundred years has created a sizable Orthodox diaspora in Western Europe, North and South America, and Australia. In addition, the Bolshevik Revolution forced thousands of Russian exiles westward. As a result, Orthodoxy's traditional frontiers have been profoundly modified. Millions of Orthodox are no longer geographically \"eastern\" since they live permanently in their newly adopted countries in the West. Nonetheless, they remain Eastern Orthodox in their faith and practice.\n\nLiberal Christianity, sometimes called liberal theology, is an umbrella term covering diverse, philosophically informed religious movements and moods within late 18th, 19th and 20th-century Christianity. The word \"liberal\" in liberal Christianity does not refer to a leftist \"political\" agenda or set of beliefs, but rather to the freedom of dialectic process associated with continental philosophy and other philosophical and religious paradigms developed during the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nFundamentalist Christianity, is a movement that arose mainly within British and American Protestantism in the late 19th century and early 20th century in reaction to modernism and certain liberal Protestant groups that denied doctrines considered fundamental to Christianity yet still called themselves \"Christian.\" Thus, fundamentalism sought to re-establish tenets that could not be denied without relinquishing a Christian identity, the \"fundamentals\": inerrancy of the Bible, Sola Scriptura, the Virgin Birth of Jesus, the doctrine of substitutionary atonement, the bodily Resurrection of Jesus, and the imminent return of Jesus Christ.\n\nThe position of Christians affected by Nazism is highly complex.\n\nRegarding the matter, historian Derek Holmes wrote, \"There is no doubt that the Catholic districts, resisted the lure of National Socialism [Nazism] far better than the Protestant ones.\" Pope Pius XI declared – \"Mit brennender Sorge\" – that Fascist governments had hidden \"pagan intentions\" and expressed the irreconcilability of the Catholic position and Totalitarian Fascist State Worship, which placed the nation above God, fundamental human rights and dignity. His declaration that \"Spiritually, [Christians] are all Semites\" prompted the Nazis to give him the title \"Chief Rabbi of the Christian World.\"\n\nCatholic priests were executed in concentration camps alongside Jews; for example, 2,600 Catholic Priests were imprisoned in Dachau, and 2,000 of them were executed. A further 2,700 Polish priests were executed (a quarter of all Polish priests), and 5,350 Polish nuns were either displaced, imprisoned, or executed. Many Catholic laymen and clergy played notable roles in sheltering Jews during the Holocaust, including Pope Pius XII (1876–1958). The head rabbi of Rome became a Catholic in 1945 and, in honour of the actions the Pope undertook to save Jewish lives, he took the name Eugenio (the pope's first name). A former Israeli consul in Italy claimed: \"The Catholic Church saved more Jewish lives during the war than all the other churches, religious institutions, and rescue organisations put together.\"\n\nThe relationship between Nazism and Protestantism, especially the German Lutheran Church, was complex. Though many Protestant church leaders in Germany supported the Nazis' growing anti-Jewish activities, some, such as Dietrich Bonhoeffer (a Lutheran pastor) were strongly opposed to the Nazis. Bonhoeffer was later found guilty in the conspiracy to assassinate Hitler and executed.\n\nOn 11 October 1962, Pope John XXIII opened the Second Vatican Council, the 21st ecumenical council of the Catholic Church. The council was \"pastoral\" in nature, emphasising and clarifying already defined dogma, revising liturgical practices, and providing guidance for articulating traditional Church teachings in contemporary times. The council is perhaps best known for its instructions that the Mass may be celebrated in the vernacular as well as in Latin.\n\nEcumenism broadly refers to movements between Christian groups to establish a degree of unity through dialogue. \"Ecumenism\" is derived from Greek (oikoumene), which means \"the inhabited world\", but more figuratively something like \"universal oneness.\" The movement can be distinguished into Catholic and Protestant movements, with the latter characterised by a redefined ecclesiology of \"denominationalism\" (which the Catholic Church, among others, rejects).\n\nOver the last century, a number of moves have been made to reconcile the schism between the Catholic Church and the Eastern Orthodox churches. Although progress has been made, concerns over papal primacy and the independence of the smaller Orthodox churches has blocked a final resolution of the schism.\n\nOn 30 November 1894, Pope Leo XIII published the Apostolic Letter \"Orientalium Dignitas\" (On the Churches of the East) safeguarding the importance and continuance of the Eastern traditions for the whole Church. On 7 December 1965, a Joint Catholic-Orthodox Declaration of Pope Paul VI and the Ecumenical Patriarch Athenagoras I was issued lifting the mutual excommunications of 1054.\n\nSome of the most difficult questions in relations with the ancient Eastern Churches concern some doctrine (i.e. \"Filioque\", Scholasticism, functional purposes of asceticism, the essence of God, Hesychasm, Fourth Crusade, establishment of the Latin Empire, Uniatism to note but a few) as well as practical matters such as the concrete exercise of the claim to papal primacy and how to ensure that ecclesiastical union would not mean mere absorption of the smaller Churches by the Latin component of the much larger Catholic Church (the most numerous single religious denomination in the world), and the stifling or abandonment of their own rich theological, liturgical and cultural heritage.\n\nWith respect to Catholic relations with Protestant communities, certain commissions were established to foster dialogue and documents have been produced aimed at identifying points of doctrinal unity, such as the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification produced with the Lutheran World Federation in 1999.\n\nThe Third Great Awakening (1904 onwards) had its roots in the Holiness movement which had developed in the late 19th century. The Pentecostal revival movement began, out of a passion for more power and a greater outpouring of the Spirit. In 1902, the American evangelists Reuben Archer Torrey and Charles M. Alexander conducted meetings in Melbourne, Australia, resulting in more than 8,000 converts. News of this revival travelled fast, igniting a passion for prayer and an expectation that God would work in similar ways elsewhere.\n\nTorrey and Alexander were involved in the beginnings of the great Welsh revival (1904) which led Jessie Penn-Lewis to witness the working of Satan during times of revival, and write her book \"War on the Saints\". In 1906, the modern Pentecostal Movement was born on Azusa Street in Los Angeles. Pentecostalism in turn inspired the Charismatic movement within already established denominations.\n\nIn reaction to these developments, Christian fundamentalism was a movement to reject the radical influences of philosophical humanism, as this was affecting the Christian religion. Especially targeting critical approaches to the interpretation of the Bible, and trying to blockade the inroads made into their churches by atheistic scientific assumptions, the fundamentalists began to appear in various denominations as numerous independent movements of resistance to the drift away from historic Christianity. Over time, the Fundamentalist Evangelical movement has divided into two main wings, with the label Fundamentalist following one branch, while Evangelical has become the preferred banner of the more moderate movement. Although both movements primarily originated in the English-speaking world, the majority of Evangelicals now live elsewhere in the world.\n\nEcumenical movements within Protestantism have focused on determining a list of doctrines and practices essential to being Christian and thus extending to all groups which fulfil these basic criteria a (more or less) co-equal status, with perhaps one's own group still retaining a \"first among equal\" standing. This process involved a redefinition of the idea of \"the Church\" from traditional theology. This ecclesiology, known as denominationalism, contends that each group (which fulfils the essential criteria of \"being Christian\") is a sub-group of a greater \"Christian Church\", itself a purely abstract concept with no direct representation, i.e., no group, or \"denomination\", claims to be \"the Church.\" This ecclesiology is at variance with other groups that indeed consider themselves to be \"the Church.\" The \"essential criteria\" generally consist of belief in the Trinity, belief that Jesus Christ is the only way to have forgiveness and eternal life, and that He died and rose again bodily.\n\n\n\nThe following links give an overview of the history of Christianity:\n\nThe following links provide quantitative data related to Christianity and other major religions, including rates of adherence at different points in time:\n"}
{"id": "50142699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50142699", "title": "Hopkin Bevan", "text": "Hopkin Bevan\n\nHopkin Bevan (1765–1839) was a Calvinist Methodist minister and writer. \n\nBorn 4 May 1765, his parents were Rees and Mary Bevan of Cilfwnwr, Llangyfelach in Glamorgan. As a boy he attended school in his hometown, and then was schooled in Swansea. He joined the Methodists in Gopa Fach in 1788 and began preaching about 1792.\n\nOrdained in Llandeilo in the summer of 1811, he was among the first ordained Calvinist Methodist ministers. He was a minister at the Bethel chapel in Llangyfelach. His written works include; \"Ychydig Hanes neu Goffawdwriaeth\" (1838), \"Hymnau a Phenillion\" (1838), and his autobiography (1840). He died 29 December 1839, and was buried in Bethel chapel in Llangyfelach.\n"}
{"id": "2062296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2062296", "title": "Immaculate Heart of Mary", "text": "Immaculate Heart of Mary\n\nThe Immaculate Heart of Mary is a devotional name used to refer to the interior life of the Blessed Virgin Mary, her joys and sorrows, her virtues and hidden perfections, and, above all, her virginal love for God the Father, her maternal love for her son Jesus, and her compassionate love for all people.\n\nThe Eastern Catholic Churches occasionally utilize the image, devotion, and theology associated with the Immaculate Heart of Mary. However, this is a cause of some controversy, some seeing it as a form of liturgical latinisation. The Roman Catholic view is based on Mariology, as exemplified by Pope John Paul II's Apostolic Letter \"Rosarium Virginis Mariae\".\n\nTraditionally, the heart is depicted pierced with seven wounds or swords, in homage to the seven dolors of Mary. Also, roses or another type of flower may be wrapped around the heart.\n\nThe veneration of the Heart of Mary is analogous to the worship of the Sacred Heart of Jesus. There are, however, differences in this analogy as devotion to the heart of Jesus is especially directed to the \"divine heart\" as overflowing with love for humanity. In the devotion to Mary, however, the attraction is the love of her heart for Jesus and for God.\n\nThe second difference is the nature of the devotion itself: in the devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus, the Roman Catholic venerates in a sense of love responding to love, in the devotion to the Heart of Mary, study and imitation hold as important a place as love. The aim of the devotion is to unite humankind to God through Mary's heart, and this process involves the ideas of consecration and reparation. The object of the devotion being to love God and Jesus better by uniting one's self to Mary for this purpose and by imitating her virtues. (There also exists a private devotion to the Most Chaste Heart of Saint Joseph, the spouse of the Blessed Virgin Mary, foster-father of Jesus Christ God.)\n\nIn Chapter 2 of St. Luke's gospel, the evangelist twice reports that Mary kept all things in her heart, that there she might ponder over them. Luke 2:35 recounts the prophecy of Simeon that her heart would be pierced with a sword. This image (the pierced heart) is the most popular representation of the Immaculate Heart.\n\nSt. John's Gospel further invited attention to Mary's heart with its depiction of Mary at the foot of the cross at Jesus' crucifixion. St. Augustine said of this that Mary was not merely passive at the foot of the cross; \"she cooperated through charity in the work of our redemption\".\n\nSt. Leo said that through faith and love she conceived her son spiritually, even before receiving him into her womb, and St. Augustine tells us that she was more blessed in having borne Christ in her heart than in having conceived him in the flesh.\n\nDevotion to the Heart of Mary began in the Middle Ages with saints like Anselm of Canterbury, and Bernard of Clairvaux. It was practiced and developed by Mechtilde, Gertrude the Great and Bridget of Sweden. Evidence is also discernible in the pious meditations on the \"Ave Maria\" and the \"Salve Regina\", usually attributed either to Saint Anselm of Lucca (d. 1080) or Saint Bernard; and also in the large book \"De laudibus Beatae Mariae Virginis\" (Douai, 1625) by Richard de Saint-Laurent, Penitentiary of Rouen in the thirteenth century.\n\nA little earlier it had been included by Saint Thomas Becket in the devotion to the joys and sorrows of Mary, by Saint Hermann (d.1241) in his devotions to Mary, and somewhat later it appeared in Bridget of Sweden's \"Book of Revelations\". Saint Bernardine of Siena (d.1444), is sometimes called \"Doctor of the Heart of Mary\", and from him the Church has borrowed the lessons of the second nocturn for the feast of the Heart of Mary. Saint Francis de Sales speaks of the perfections of this heart, the model of love for God, and dedicated his \"Theotimus\" to it.\n\nDuring this same period one finds occasional mention of devotional practices to the Heart of Mary, e.g., in the \"Antidotarium\" of Nicolas du Saussay (d. 1488), in Pope Julius II, and in the \"Pharetra\" of Lanspergius. In the second half of the sixteenth century and the first half of the seventeenth, ascetic authors dwelt upon this devotion at greater length.\n\nIt was, however, Saint John Eudes (d. 1681) who propagated the devotion, to make it public, and to have a feast celebrated in honor of the Heart of Mary, first at Autun in 1648 and afterwards in a number of French dioceses. He established several religious societies interested in upholding and promoting the devotion, of which his large book on the \"Coeur Admirable\" (\"Admirable Heart\"), published in 1681, resembles a summary. Jean Eudes' efforts to secure the approval of an office and feast failed at Rome, but, notwithstanding this disappointment, the devotion to the Heart of Mary progressed. Eudes began his devotional teachings with the Heart of Mary, and then extended it to the Sacred Heart of Jesus. However, it was only in 1805 that Pope Pius VII allowed a feast to honor the Immaculate Heart of Mary.\n\nIn 1699 Father Pinamonti (d. 1703) published a short work on the Holy Heart of Mary in Italian, and in 1725, Joseph de Gallifet combined the cause of the Heart of Mary with that of the Heart of Jesus in order to obtain Rome's approbation of the two devotions and the institution of the two feasts. In 1729, his project was defeated, and in 1765, the two causes were separated, to assure the success of the principal one.\n\nIn its principal object this feast is identical with the feast of the \"Inner Life of Mary\", celebrated by the Sulpicians on 19 October. It commemorates the joys and sorrows of the Mother of God, her virtues and perfections, her love for God and her Divine Son and her compassionate love for mankind.\n\nAs early as 1643, St. John Eudes and his followers observed 8 February as the feast of the Heart of Mary.\nIn 1799 Pius VI, then in captivity in Florence, granted the Bishop of Palermo the feast of the \"Most Pure Heart of Mary\" for some of the churches in his diocese. In 1805 Pope Pius VII made a new concession, thanks to which the feast was soon widely observed. Such was the existing condition when a twofold movement, started in Paris, gave fresh impetus to the devotion; the two factors of this movement were, first of all, the revelation of the \"Miraculous Medal\" in 1830, and then the establishment at Notre-Dame-des-Victoires of the Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart of Mary, Refuge of Sinners, which spread rapidly. \nOn 21 July 1855, the Congregation of Rites finally approved the Office and Mass of the Most Pure Heart of Mary without, however, imposing them upon the Universal Church.\n\nPope Pius XII instituted the feast of the Immaculate Heart of Mary in 1944 to be celebrated on 22 August, coinciding with the traditional octave day of the Assumption. In 1969, Pope Paul VI moved the celebration of the Immaculate Heart of Mary to the Saturday, immediately after the Solemnity of the Sacred Heart of Jesus. This means in practice that it is now held on the third Saturday after Pentecost.\n\nAt the same time as he closely associated the celebrations of the Immaculate Heart of Mary and the Sacred Heart of Jesus, Pope Paul VI moved the celebration of the Queenship of Mary from 31 May to 22 August, bringing it into association with the feast of her Assumption. Those who use the 1962 edition of the Roman Missal or an earlier one (but not more than 17 years before 1962) observe the day established by Pius XII.\n\nIt is kept as the patronal feast of the Congregation of the Holy Ghost, of the Society of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary, and of the Missionary Society of the Heart of Mary.\n\nThe celebration of this feast is omitted in those years when it is impeded by a higher ranking feast. This would apply \nwhen it is due to fall on 24 June (Nativity of St John the Baptist) and\n29 June (Saints Peter and Paul), and more rarely\n31 May (Visitation of the Blessed Virgin Mary) and 3 July (Saint Thomas the Apostle).\nIt is also impeded when it is due to fall on 25 June and 30 June because of the coincidence of solemnities the day\nbefore, necessitating the transfer of one of them to the following [available] day.\n(Note that there may be variations in local calendars. For example, this feast is not impeded in\nEngland and Wales in 2019 since Saints Peter and Paul will be celebrated on Sunday 30 June.)\n\nTraditional depictions of the IHM show it pierced with seven wounds or swords, in homage to the seven dolors of Mary. The Seven Sorrows of Mary are a popular Roman Catholic devotion. There are devotional prayers which consist of meditation on her Seven Sorrows. One practice is to pray seven Hail Marys daily. The term \"Sorrowful and Immaculate Heart of Mary\" refers to the combined devotion of both the Immaculate Heart and the Seven Sorrows of Mary as first used by the Franciscan Tertiary Berthe Petit.\n\nThe devotion to Mary's Heart has had a greater flowering following the manifestation of the Miraculous Medal to St. Catherine Labouré in 1830. The Immaculate Heart is depicted on the Miraculous Medal, pierced by a sword. The Sacred Heart of Jesus also appears on the medal, next to the Immaculate Heart, crowned with thorns. The M on the medal signifies the Blessed Virgin at the foot of the Cross when Jesus was being crucified.\n\nOur Lady of Fátima asked that, in reparation for the sins committed against her Immaculate Heart, on the first Saturday of five consecutive months a Catholic believer go to the Sacrament of Penance (within eight days before or after the first Saturday), receive the Holy Communion, recite five decades of the Rosary, and keep her company for 15 minutes while meditating on the 15 mysteries of the Rosary. She promised that, whoever would ever do this, would be given the graces necessary for salvation at the hour of one's death.\n\nThe Alliance of the Hearts of Jesus and Mary is based on the historical, theological and spiritual links in Catholic devotions to the Sacred Heart of Jesus and the Immaculate Heart of Mary. The joint devotion to the hearts was first formalized in the 17th century by St. John Eudes who organized the scriptural, theological and liturgical sources relating to the devotions and obtained the approbation of the Church, prior to the visions of St. Margaret Mary Alacoque.\n\nIn the 18th and 19th centuries the devotions grew, both jointly and individually through the efforts of figures such as St. Louis de Montfort who promoted Catholic Mariology and St. Catherine Labouré's Miraculous Medal depicting the Heart of Jesus thorn-crowned and the Heart of Mary pierced with a sword. The devotions, and the associated prayers, continued in the 20th century, e.g., in the Immaculata prayer of St. Maximillian Kolbe and in the reported messages of Our Lady of Fátima which stated that the Heart of Jesus wishes to be honored together with the Heart of Mary.\n\nThe Popes have supported the individual and joint devotions to the hearts through the centuries; in 1956 the encyclical \"Haurietis aquas\", Pope Pius XII encouraged the joint devotion to the hearts, In 1979 the encyclical \"Redemptor hominis\", Pope John Paul II explained the theme of unity of Mary's Immaculate Heart with the Sacred Heart. In his Angelus address on 15 September 1985 he coined the term \"The Alliance of the Hearts of Jesus and Mary\", and in 1986 addressed the international conference on that topic held at Fátima, Portugal.\n\nDuring the third apparition at Fátima, Portugal, on 13 July 1917, Our Lady allegedly said to the three little shepherds: \"God wishes to establish the devotion to her Immaculate Heart in the world\" in order to save souls from hell and bring about world peace, and also asked for the consecration of Russia to her Immaculate Heart. Pope Pius XII, in his Apostolic Letter of 7 July 1952 \"Sacro Vergente\", consecrated Russia to the Most Blessed Virgin Mary.\n\nAlso, the Blessed Alexandrina of Balazar, in Portugal, reported many private apparitions, messages and prophecies received directly from Jesus and the Blessed Virgin Mary. In June 1938, based on the request of her spiritual director Father Mariano Pinho, several bishops from Portugal wrote to Pope Pius XI, asking him to consecrate the world to the Immaculate Heart of Mary. At that time Cardinal Eugenio Pacelli (later Pope Pius XII) was the secretary of the state of the Vatican, and later he performed the consecration of the world.\n\nOn 25 March 1984 Pope John Paul II fulfilled this request again, when he made the solemn act of consecration of the world, and implicitly of Russia, to the Immaculate Heart of Mary before the miraculous statue of Our Lady of Fátima brought to Saint Peter's Square in the Vatican for the occasion. Sister Lúcia, OCD, then the only surviving visionary of Fátima apparitions, confirmed that the request of Mary for the consecration of Russia to the Immaculate Heart of Mary was accepted by Heaven, and therefore, was fulfilled. \nAgain on October 8, 2000, the same pope made an act of entrustment of the world to the Immaculate Heart of Mary for the new millennium.\n\nIn August 2013, Pope Francis announced that he would consecrate the world to the Immaculate Heart of Mary on 13 October 2013, as part of the Marian Day celebration that involved the iconic statue of Our Lady of the Rosary of Fátima.\n\nThe whole world has been repeatedly consecrated to the Immaculate Heart of Mary by different popes:\n\n\nSeveral nations have been consecrated by their respective bishops to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, in particular:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "57390654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57390654", "title": "Interfaith relations in Kazan", "text": "Interfaith relations in Kazan\n\nInterfaith relations in Kazan describe the status of the two major religious groups that inhabit the capital city of Kazan, Tatarstan, in Russia. This region is populated by roughly even numbers of ethnic Tatars (42%), whose primarily religion is Sunni Islam, and ethnic Russians (50%), whose primarily religion is Eastern Orthodox Christianity.\n\nThis relationship is notable because it serves as major case study of successful interfaith cooperation, particularly between Muslim and Christian peoples. As a city, Kazan has established several mechanisms of sociopolitical regulation including bordering processes, political cooperation, and social openness.\n\nKazan is located at the confluence of the Volga and Kama rivers. The region of Tatarstan became Islamic in the year 922, and thus its Islamic history stretches back further historically than its Orthodox presence which was at one time viewed as the religious influence of conquerors.\n\nThe region developed with relative prosperity at the time of the takeover of the Kazan Khanate. Following the period of Kazan's 1552 defeat by Moscow, periods of forced Christianization occurred. The efforts of Russian nation-building changed the discourse of Kazan into one of primarily Orthodox hegemony. \n\nThen, for much of the twentieth century, forced atheism characterized the religious space in Kazan. This was influenced by the political discourses of the Soviet Union and the modernization efforts undertaken to shift attention away from religious bounds and towards a centralized national identity. By the end of the Soviet period, Tatarstan was one of the most industrially advanced parts of the country.\n\nIn the early 1900s, approximately 200,000 people lived in Kazan and only around 30,000 of that population was Tatar. A hundred years later, Kazan's population is over 1 million with an equal ethnic split, following the common pattern of Soviet demographic shift and rapid urbanization.\n\nKazan is the capital of the Republic of Tatarstan which is a federal subject of the Russian Federation. Kazan is known as the “Third Capital” of Russia. It has achieved large wealth from oil and is therefore more financially independent from Moscow than nearby republics, in addition to its political power-sharing agreements with the Kremlin.\n\nOne of the political institutions in Kazan are the discursive definitions of “in–out” groups that determine the social construction of identity. The sociopolitical boundaries enacted into the political narrative of the territory of Kazan helped ascertain its autonomy and identity as 'historically wronged'—yet deeply similar in proximity both physically and psychologically to Russia. This both stabilizes the political strength of Tatars within Tatarstan while aligning ethnic Russians more closely to Tatars than to Volga Russians who are their ethnic counterparts. \n\nTatarstan's government publications aim to stress the common territory and culture of those who have formed the 'native land' and have lived a specific lifestyle. The unifying discourse of in Tatar public messaging is one of the political institutions that has served to created inclusive yet distinct urban environments in Kazan. Political focuses have been the protection, cohesion, and solidarity of the cultural identity of Tatarstan and proffering religious symbols from both major religious groups.\n\nThe multi-ethnic nature of modern Russia has been characterized by growth of nationalism and migration from neighboring areas. The system of federalism marks the ways in which Tatarstan interacts with the federal government while maintaining the ability to manage many internal affairs as 'Tatar'. The 1991 negotiation between Moscow and Kazan resulted in the \"Treaty on Delimiting the Jurisdictions and Mutual Transmissions of Authorities Between the Organs of State Power of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Tatarstan\". These agreements involved several regulatory relations regarding trade, finance, and defense. \n\nKnown as the 'Tatarstan model', this experience of positive negotiations between a central government and a subnational region are regarded as a basis for the strength of interfaith and interethnic relations in the modern context and a rarity particularly among post-Soviet states. Kazan's success can be attributed to the political stability, multi-leveled nature of treaties, and pressures of Tatar citizens to develop a working cooperative framework within the Russian Federation indicated movement towards independent but integrated political institutions in the region. \n\nAs in its establishment of internal affairs regarding Muslim and Christian freedom to worship, politically, this Tatarstan-Russian Treaty settled roots of conflict with Moscow and developed on the paradox of both decentralized power and the strive towards respecting the heritage of the former-Soviet central government. \n\nTatarstan is a dual-language environment that expresses both Tatar and Russian identity through the political institutions of official language policy. Street signs are one important marker of this in Kazan. In the 1990s, legislation passed ensuring the official status of both Russian and Tatar which led to the creation of bilingual street signs.\n\nThe Tatar language is a Turkic language closely related to Turkish and Azeri while the Russian language is a Slavic language more closely related to Ukrainian, Belarusian, and others. Around a decade after the creation of Tatar official language status, the decision was made to introduce the Latin alphabet in the urban environment of Kazan, which served to change the optics of Tatar more to that of other Turkic languages as well as European languages. \n\nThe selection of official script is often employed in sociolinguistics for societies to indicate political alignments towards a certain hegemonic tradition or culture. However, this choice showed little of the 'walling'-type demarcation against prior scripts that is found in many other bilingual environments. Instead, this choice is a more invisible spatial–political pattern that has not threatened cooperative relations. Given the importance of script both in political, religious, and personal domains, Tatar's changes with Latin indicated a certain relationship bound with former Cyrillic-dominated and thus Russian-dominated sociolinguistic realities. \n\nSocial attitudes in Kazan on an interfaith level also indicate a high level of cooperation. Studies of the youth of Tatarstan indicate current attitudes about the interfaith relations of are generally stable as many of the conflictogenic factors, such as resentments towards other nationalities or xenophobic tendencies, are largely absent in surveys.\n\nAn 84% majority of youth in Tatarstan indicated in a 2016 study that nationality was not a determining factor in communicating with other people and that the government has a crucial role in maintaining peaceful relations both internationally and within Tatarstar. Over 50% of the respondents feel the proximity of different nationalities is a benefit and would like to learn more about the customs of other groups.\n\nThese results from a student population at Kazan Federal University sample the attitudes that are held at the level of the education system and at a household-level in terms of respect for difference in an ethnoreligious sense. While the younger population does show elements of slippage towards ethnic nationalism for example in social media circles, generally it is found that this population—which is engaged in building the current intellectual discourse around the city—hold a positive or ambivalent view of interethnic relations.\n\nInterfaith relations in Kazan operate under several key conflict-avoidance mechanisms. Socio-spatial borders are constructed in Tatarstan through the use of narratives and symbols that constitute a 'bordering process' and establishes a sense of place for both ethnic Tatars and Russians. These borders provide a framework for understanding the mechanisms through which Tatarstan has been successful in mitigating strife.\n\nThe notion that religious narratives and symbols are not immutable—that is, they are able to evolve and change within new political realities—helps account for the relative non-divisiveness of the religious worlds of Kazan. The reinterpretation of these symbols, such as in architecture, language, and family life, has happened as Kazan political leaders initiated bridging efforts between Muslim Tatars and Christian Russians which prevented any bases of resentments from manifesting into larger-scale conflict. \n\nTatars have used Islamic religious symbols to ascertain a special status within the Russian federative framework and within Tatarstan as an ethnic homeland identity. The Soviet system of ethnic federalism called for titular ethnic groups to enjoy special privileges in their territories and post-Soviet Tatarstan has employed the use of Islamic representations to continue to legitimize the public space of Tatar. Likewise, Soviet Orthodox symbolism is present in the city which sustains the long tradition of ethnic Russian religious practice. \n\nInterfaith relations are also seen through the construction of key architectural pieces that establish either Tatar Islamic or Russian Orthodox presence, such as in the construction of Qolsharif Mosque inside of the Kazan Kremlin. Rather than seeing this as an accosting of Russian power, the Kazan environment recognizes this with a sense of normalcy and status-quo to the interfaith peace. Concurrent with this project, the Tatar government ordered the refurbishment of the Cathedral of the Annunciation. This act signified both the reaffirmation of Tatar statehood as well as the respect of Russian ethnic nation, distinct 'from' but not 'against' the other.\n\nIn addition, architecture serves as a cohesive ground for integrating Kazan not only in distinct coexisting places but within one site. The Temple of All Religions is a religious complex in the Staroye Arakchino Microdistrict of Kazan which is notable in its cohesion of several types of religious architectural elements which include an Orthodox church, a mosque, a synagogue, and others. Construction began in 1992 by Kazan artist Ildar Khanov and it serves as a cultural hub and residence for Khanov.\n\nThe Temple's mission is to depart from the traditional paradigm of housing only one religion and instead provide a 'temple of culture and truth' which peacefully combines the different cultural influences found in Kazan. The structure also serves as a center for the treatment of alcoholism, drug addiction, and other conditions and is attended by visitors both for these services and for experiencing its unique combination of religious symbols. \n\nKazan's interfaith relations have attracted considerable attention given current global breakdowns towards interethnic and political strife. Hillary Clinton's October 2009 visit to Kazan also indicated the US Department of State's recognition of Kazan as a case study of productive interfaith relations.\n\nBearing in mind many of its geographic and historical factors, dominant social science theory might anticipate greater levels of conflict. Examples of cities in a similar geographic and historic position often exhibit characteristics traditionally associated with division. Among these characteristics are disputes over sovereignty, the issue of political legitimacy, and active unrest and conflict in the public space. \n\nKazan has been identified as a frontier city in terms of its religious demographic composition. Frontier cities exist along the 'fault lines' of ethnic and religious division and are often the place of dispute because they represent the ideal zone of power afforded to discrete territories of one group over another.\n\nFor frontier cities, issues of cultural and religious identity by claiming specific lands often trump a more generalized focus on the acquisition of new resources and sovereignty. In other words, the meaning placed on the 'indivisible good' of a specific city may instigate opposing groups' collective action against any perceived incursion on that space. These discourses are largely absent in modern-day Kazan where the urban space is interpreted in a more spatially integrated system. \n\nKazan's trajectory is often contrasted with histories of cities of major religious contact which can also be identified specifically as 'religious frontier cities'. Major among these are Jerusalem, which has long been the nexus of the ongoing Arab-Israeli conflict, as well as Sarajevo, where tensions between Muslim and Christian groups wrought violent ethnic conflict in the 1990s, or Belfast, where ethno-nationalist conflicts spurred riots across Northern Ireland throughout the late 20th century. Whereas, for instance, in the case of the bridge separating the Catholics and Muslims in Mostar, Bosnia—or the Berlin Wall characterizing political divide in Germany—the focus was on spatial segregation and clear lines of demarcation, Kazan's methodology has reduced antagonism by focusing on the social and economic benefits of interethnic peace and the incentive to cooperate not only on political but also religious and cultural bases.\n"}
{"id": "36302919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36302919", "title": "Irreligion in Germany", "text": "Irreligion in Germany\n\nIrreligion is prevalent in Germany. As of 2009, more Germans are non-believers in Eastern Germany than Western Germany. When taken overall, Germany is a remarkably secular nation, though in spite of this, many areas in Western Germany don't have demographics of irreligion comparable to that of several nearby European countries.\n\nEastern Germany is perhaps the least religious region in the world. Atheism is embraced by young and old, though even more so by younger Germans. \nOne study in September 2012 was unable to find a single person under 28 who believes in God. \nAn explanation for this, popular in other regions, is the aggressive state atheist policies of German Democratic Republic's Socialist Unity Party of Germany. However, the enforcement of atheism existed only for the first few years. After that, the state allowed churches to have a relatively high level of autonomy. As those born after reunification, the oldest of whom would be about 28 in 2018, never directly experienced it, the argument that the DDR could be an influence in their lack of belief is problematic.\n\nAlso, the same high numbers of atheists do not exist in Western Germany, other European countries that have a history of state communism and Northern Europe generally.\n\nAnother explanation could be the secularizing trend (the \"Kulturkampf\") dating back to the second half of the 19th century in Prussia and through the Weimar Republic which was strongest in the states of Thuringia and Saxony as well as the late arrival of Christianity to the region as opposed to southern Europe where it was the state religion from late antiquity.\n\nChristianity still has a notable presence in the rest of Germany, though a majority of the population in the Northern Bundesländer Hamburg and Bremen are not registered members of the main Catholic and Protestant churches.\n\n"}
{"id": "4210300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4210300", "title": "Jainism in Gujarat", "text": "Jainism in Gujarat\n\nJainism has had a significant influence in Gujarat.\n\nJains believe that their 22nd Tirthankara (propagators of Jain religion) Neminath attained salvation on Girnar in Gujarat. Many other monks have also got salvation; especially on the holy mountains of Girnar and Shatrunjaya. The Jain councils were held in Vallabhi c. 5th century CE. Their canonical scriptures were written down during this council. King Vanaraja Chavda (c. 720-780 CE) of the Chavda dynasty was brought up by a Jain monk named Shilaguna Suri.\n\nJain temples are found in Gujarat from as early as the 6th and 7th centuries CE. It was patronized by the Chaulukyas and Chavadas. Dhank Caves (3rd-7th century CE) in Rajkot district has Jain Tirthankara carvings. Northern Gujarat became a principle center of Jainism in the 13th century CE.\n\nThe earliest known Old Gujarati text \"Bharat-Bahubali Ras\", was written by a Jain monk. Of the most important people in Gujarat's Jain history were the Acharya Hemachandra Suri and his pupil, the Chaulukya ruler Kumarapala.\n\nMajor ancient Jain centers include:\n\n"}
{"id": "9881894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9881894", "title": "Justin L. Barrett", "text": "Justin L. Barrett\n\nJustin L. Barrett (born 1971) is an American cognitive scientist, Director of the Thrive Center for Human Development in Pasadena, California, Thrive Professor of Developmental Science, and Professor of Psychology at Fuller Graduate School of Psychology. He previously held a post as senior researcher of the Centre for Anthropology and Mind and The Institute for Cognitive and Evolutionary Anthropology at Oxford University.\n\nBarrett earned a B.A. in psychology from Calvin College and a Ph.D in experimental psychology (cognitive and developmental focus) from Cornell University. He served on the psychology faculties of Calvin College and the University of Michigan (Ann Arbor), and as a research fellow of the Institute for Social Research.\n\nDr. Barrett is a founding editor of the \"Journal of Cognition & Culture\" and is author of numerous articles and chapters concerning the cognitive science of religion.\n\nBarrett is described in the New York Times as a \"prominent member of the byproduct camp\" and \"an observant Christian who believes in “an all-knowing, all-powerful, perfectly good God who brought the universe into being,” [and] “that the purpose for people is to love God and love each other.” He considers that “Christian theology teaches that people were crafted by God to be in a loving relationship with him and other people, Why wouldn’t God, then, design us in such a way as to find belief in divinity quite natural?” Having a scientific explanation for mental phenomena does not mean we should stop believing in them. “Suppose science produces a convincing account for why I think my wife loves me — should I then stop believing that she does?”\n\nIn his book \"Why Would Anyone Believe in God?\" he suggests that \"belief in God is an almost inevitable consequence of the kind of minds we have. Most of what we believe comes from mental tools working below our conscious awareness. And what we believe consciously is in large part driven by these unconscious beliefs.\" and \"that beliefs in gods match up well with these automatic assumptions; beliefs in an all-knowing, all-powerful God match up even better.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "177299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177299", "title": "Kaveri", "text": "Kaveri\n\nKaveri (anglicized as Cauvery), also referred as Ponni, is an Indian river flowing through the states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. It is the third largest after Godavari and Krishna in south India and the largest in Tamil Nadu which on its course, bisects the state into North and South. Originating in the foothills of Western Ghats at Talakaveri, Kodagu in Karnataka it flows generally south and east through Karnataka and Tamil Nadu and across the southern Deccan plateau through the southeastern lowlands, emptying into the Bay of Bengal through two principal mouths in Poompuhar, Tamil Nadu. Amongst the river valleys, the Kaveri delta forms one of the most fertile regions in the country.\n\nThe Kaveri basin is estimated to be with many tributaries including Harangi, Hemavati, Kabini, Bhavani, Arkavathy, Lakshmana Tirtha, Noyyal and Arkavati. The river's basin covers three states and a Union Territory as follows: Tamil Nadu, ; Karnataka, ; Kerala, , and Puducherry, . Rising in southwestern Karnataka, it flows southeast some to enter the Bay of Bengal. In Mandya district it forms the island of Shivanasamudra, on either side of which are the scenic Shivanasamudra Falls that descend about . The river is the source for an extensive irrigation system and for hydroelectric power. The river has supported irrigated agriculture for centuries and served as the lifeblood of the ancient kingdoms and modern cities of South India. Access to the river's waters has pitted Indian states against each other for decades.\n\nAfter the river leaves the Kodagu hills and flows onto the Deccan plateau, it forms two islands in Mandya district's Srirangapatna and Shivanasamudra. First, comes the Srirangapatna which forms the sangam and then comes Shivanasamudra. At Shivanasamudra the river drops , forming the famous Shivanasamudra Falls known separately as \"Gagana Chukki\" and \"Bhara Chukki\". Asia's first hydroelectric plant (built in 1902) was on the left falls and supplied power to the city of Bangalore.\n\nIn its course through Karnataka, the channel is interrupted by 12 \"anekattu\" (dams) for the purpose of irrigation. From the Anekattu at Madadkatte, an artificial channel is diverted at a distance of , irrigating an area of , and ultimately bringing its water supply to the town of Mandya.\n\nThree kilometres away from Srirangapatna, the Kaveri is the basis for the Ranganthittu Bird Sanctuary. Near Srirangapatna is also an aqueduct, the Bangara Doddi Nala, which was constructed in the 17th century by the Wodeyar maharaja of Mysore, Ranadhira Kantirava, in memory of his favourite consort. It is said to be the only aqueduct where the water from a river, dammed upstream, is carried by the aqueduct over the very same river few miles downstream . This aqueduct also served as a motorable bridge until 1964.The kabini river tributary of Kaveri joins Kaveri at Tirumakudal Narasipura where triveni sangama takesplace along with mythological river Spatika. The Moyar River is an east flowing river originates in the Mudumalai, Bandipur, and Wayanad National Parks draining the Nilgiri Hills in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and is one of the tributaries to the Kaveri River.\n\nThe river enters Tamil Nadu through Dharmapuri district leading to the flat plains where it meanders. It drops into the Hogenakkal Falls just before it arrives in the town of Hogenakkal in Tamil Nadu. The three minor tributaries, Palar, Chinnar and Thoppar enter into the Kaveri on her course, above Stanley Reservoir in Mettur, where the dam has been constructed. It then flows further through the length of Erode district where the river Bhavani, running through the breadth of the district, merges with it. The confluence of the rivers Kaveri, Bhavani and Akash Ganga (mythological) is at the exact place of Bhavani, Tamil Nadu Kooduthurai or Tiriveni Sangamam, Northern part of Erode City.\n\nWhile passing through Erode, two more tributaries merge. Thirumani Mutharu joins it in a village called Kududurai in Namakkal District. Noyyal and Amaravathi join it in Karur district before it reaches Tiruchirapalli district. Here the river becomes wide, with a sandy bed, and flows in an eastern direction until it splits into two at upper Anicut about west of Tiruchirappalli. The northern branch of the river is called the Kollidam while the southern branch retains the name Kaveri and then goes directly eastwards into Thanjavur District. These two rivers join again and form the Srirangam island that is a part of the city of Tiruchirapalli. The oldest functional damGrand Anicut or Kallanai was present at this place. From Thanjavur, the river splits and goes to few places in the Delta Kaveri.\n\n\nThe primary uses of Kaveri is providing water for irrigation, water for household consumption and the generation of electricity. \n\nAn estimate at the time of the first Five Year Plan puts the total flow of the Kaveri at , of which 60 percent was used for irrigation.\nThe Torekadanahalli pumpstation sends per day of water from Kaveri to Bangalore.\n\nThe hydroelectric plant built on the left of Sivanasamudra Falls on the Kaveri in 1902 was the first hydroelectric plant in Asia.\n\nThe Krishna Raja Sagara Dam has a capacity of 49 tmc ft. and the Mettur Dam which creates Stanley Reservoir has a capacity of 93.4 tmc ft. (thousand million cubic ft)\n\nIn August 2003, inflow into reservoirs in Karnataka was at a 29-year low, with a 58% shortfall. Water stored in Krishna Raja Sagara amounted to only 4.6 tmc ft.\n\nAs per Supreme Court order (16 feb 2018) Karnataka will get 400.4 tmc ft,Tamil Nadu 200.25 tmc ft,Kerala 30 tmc ft and Puducherry 7 tmc ft, and 14 tmc ft will be reserved for environmental protection.\n\nActing on the Supreme Court's direction, the Centre constituted a Cauvery Water Management Authority (CMA) on 1st June 2018 to address the dispute over sharing of river water among Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry. \n\nOn February 16 2018, the apex court had directed the government to form the CMA within six weeks in a verdict that marginally increased Karnataka's share of Cauvery water, reduced the allocation for Tamil Nadu and sought to settle the protracted water dispute between the two sout.\n\nOn June 22 2018, Despite opposition from Karnataka, the Central government constituted the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee as per the provisions in the Cauvery Management Scheme laid down by the Supreme Court. \n\nCentral Water Commission chairman, S. Masood Hussain will head the CWMA and chief engineer of the Central Water Commission, Navin Kumar will be the first chairman of the CWRC. While the CWMA is an umbrella body, the CWRC will monitor water management on a day-to-day basis, including the water level and inflow and outflow of reservoirs in all the basin states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34285232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34285232", "title": "Kodoku", "text": "Kodoku\n\n, also called , , and is a type of poisonous magic found in Japanese folklore. It is the Japanese derivative of the Chinese Gu magic.\n\nTo create kodoku, sorcerers would mix several insects in a jar, and let them kill one another until only one survived. The fluids of the insect that survived would be used to poison an individual with a curse that would control them, cause them misfortune, or kill them. The remaining insect could also be used as a sort of \"luck charm\" granting the one who performed the ritual great wealth. In return the owner is supposed to feed the bug. Neglecting to do so would enrage the insect, if the owner does not equivalently repay the insect by placing all his or her riches beside a road, plus interest in gold and silver, the insect would devour the home owner. Therefore, this ritual could also be used as a death curse by giving the riches to an ignorant individual. The term \"kodoku\" can also be applied to the spirit which is the incarnation of this particular magic (which usually appears in the shape of a worm or other animal).\nThe technique was used in the Nara Period.\n\n"}
{"id": "199830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=199830", "title": "Liberal Catholic Church", "text": "Liberal Catholic Church\n\nThe name Liberal Catholic Church (LCC) is used by a number of separate Christian churches throughout the world which are open to esoteric beliefs and hold many ideas in common.\n\nThough the term \"Liberal Catholic\" might suggest otherwise, it does not refer to liberal groups within the Roman Catholic Church but to groups within the \"Independent Catholic\" movement, unrecognised and not in communion with the Pope or the rest of the Catholic Church.\n\nThere are essentially two groups of Liberal Catholic churches: those which espouse theosophical ideas and those which do not do so.\n\nThe founding bishops of the Liberal Catholic churches were J. I. Wedgwood of the Wedgwood China family and the Theosophist Charles Webster Leadbeater. Wedgwood was a former Anglican priest who left the Anglican church on becoming a theosophist in 1904. After serving in several high offices in the Theosophical Society, including being general secretary of the society in England and Wales from 1911 to 1913, he was ordained as a priest in the Old Catholic movement on July 22, 1913, by Arnold Harris Mathew. Matthew in turn was a former Roman Catholic priest who had left to be ordained as a bishop in the Old Catholic Church, which had separated from papal authority in 1873 over the issue of papal infallibility. The Old Catholics maintained that their ordinations were valid within the Catholic tradition, and the Liberal Catholic Church thus claims to trace its apostolic succession back to Rome through Old Catholicism.\n\nIn 1915 Wedgwood visited Australia in his capacity as Grand Secretary of the Order of Universal CoMasonry (Co-Freemasonry a branch of liberal or adogmatic Freemasonry consisting of mixed-sex lodges), another of the organisations in which he was prominent. On his return to England, he learned that Frederick Samuel Willoughby, a bishop of the Old Catholic Church of Britain, had become enmeshed in a homosexuality scandal and as a result had been suspended by Archbishop Mathew. He also learned that Mathew wanted all the clergy of the church to renounce Theosophy on the grounds that the beliefs of the Church and the Society were incompatible. Shortly afterwards Archbishop Mathew dissolved the Old Catholic Church in Great Britain and published a letter in \"The Times\" announcing his intention to return to the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nFew bothered to reply to Archbishop Mathew. Willoughby offered to consecrate Wedgwood to the episcopate, but Wedgwood approached a number of other bishops seeking consecration, including the Old Catholic Archbishop of Utrecht Gerardus Gul (by whom Mathew had originally been consecrated), and Bishop Frederick James, a fellow Theosophist. Eventually, Wedgwood was consecrated as a bishop by Bishop Willoughby on 13 February 1916 with Bishop King and Bishop Gauntlett assisting.\n\nWith the Old Catholics continuing to disapprove of Mathew's creation in Britain, Wedgwood started the organisation that would later become the Liberal Catholic Church, of which he became the first Presiding Bishop. At the same time he maintained his close connections with the Theosophical movement, and many of Wedgwood's priests and bishops were simultaneously Theosophists.\n\nIn 1941 a schism occurred in the church due to breaches of canon law and the laws of the state of California on the part of the Presiding Bishop, which led to the church known abroad as the Liberal Catholic Church International earning the legal right to be known as the Liberal Catholic Church in the United States. In America, the entity originally known as the Liberal Catholic Church is known as \"The Liberal Catholic Church, Province of the United States of America.\" The Liberal Catholic Church, Province of the United States of America is more Theosophical in belief while the Liberal Catholic Church International maintains freedom of belief and does not promote any singular philosophy or tradition.\n\nIn 2003 within the Liberal Catholic Church, the issue of the limitation of the right of a bishop to ordain candidates of his choice gave rise to a differences of opinions which resulted in two groups: a \"traditional\" and a more \"liberal\" one. The ordination of women was the primary point of conflict. Since both groups use the name \"Liberal Catholic Church\" distinguishing between the two may be confusing.\n\nThe article on the Liberal Catholic Movement provides more detail on this separation.\n\nThe Liberal Catholic Church is governed by three \"General Episcopal Synods\" of all bishops. The General Episcopal Synods are the assemblies of all bishops recognized as such by its members. The synods meet formally from time to time and they elect a presiding bishop from among themselves. The current Presiding Bishops of the Liberal Catholic Church are the Right Reverend Graham Wale, for the conservative branch and the Right Reverend James Zinzow for the progressive one. The Liberal Catholic Church International's Presiding Bishop is Most Reverend James P. Roberts. The General Episcopal Synods also elect priests to the episcopacy, with the approval of the parishes of their respective provinces. The bishops of the Liberal Catholic Church may hold office until the mandatory retirement age of 75. (There is no such rule for the Liberal Catholic Church International.)\n\nEach province is governed by a regionary bishop who, in turn, may have one or more bishops functioning as assistants. A province may also have its own clerical synod of deacons, priests and bishops. These clergy are seldom financially compensated and hold secular jobs. They also may marry and hold property.\n\nTraining for the clergy varies from province to province. The Liberal Catholic Institute of Studies was created to standardise the program of studies for the development of future deacons and priests, but laypersons may follow the courses as well. The Liberal Catholic Church International's (LCCI) clergy training program is called the St. Alban Theological Seminary. The Universal Catholic Church's (an offshoot of the LCCI) is called the St. Clement (of Alexandria) Seminary.\n\nThe Liberal Catholic Church also has monasteries although they are not official.\n\nAccording to church teaching, the Liberal Catholic Church draws its central inspiration from an earnest faith in a Christ who is eternal, being alive before, during, and after the events of the New Testament, to the present day.\n\nLiberal Catholicism finds any form of Christian worship valid as long as it is earnest and true, and that individuals can experience the presence of Christ. But it also holds that Christ also appointed certain rites or sacraments, called \"mysteries\" in the Eastern Orthodox Church to be handed down in the church as special channels of power and blessing. Through these \"means of grace\" the Liberal Catholic Church believes that Christ is ever present within his church, in fellowship and communion, guiding and protecting them from birth to death. Many in the Liberal Catholic Church believe that there are many churches because there are many ways in which people want to worship God.\n\nMany in the church accept the concept of purgatory, and in the Liturgy of the Mass the priest prays for the dead. The church is open to reincarnation.\n\nAccording to the Liberal Catholic Church's \"Statement of Principles\", \"The Liberal Catholic Church recognises seven fundamental sacraments, which it enumerates as follows: Baptism, Confirmation, Holy Eucharist, Absolution, Holy Unction, Holy Matrimony, and Holy Orders. It claims an unbroken apostolic succession through the Old Catholic Union of Utrecht and claims that its orders are 'acknowledged as valid throughout the whole of those churches of Christendom which maintain the apostolic succession of orders as a tenet of their faith.\" The LCC International has modified their Statement of Principles to read \"it (the LCC) has preserved an episcopal succession that is valid, as understood throughout the whole of those churches in Christendom that maintain the apostolic succession as a tenet of their faith.\" The LCC International permits the ordination of non-celibate gays and lesbians.\n\nThe Liberal Catholic Church believes that there is a body of doctrine and mystical experience common to all the great religions of the world and which cannot be claimed as the exclusive possession of any. Moving within the orbit of Christianity and regarding itself as a distinctive Christian church it nevertheless holds that the other great religions of the world are also divinely inspired and that all proceed from a common source, though religions may stress different aspects of the various teachings and some aspects may even temporarily be ignored. These teachings, as facts in nature, rest on their own intrinsic merit. They form that true catholic faith which is catholic because it is the statement of universal principles. The LCC bases these beliefs on what St. Augustine said: \"The identical thing that we now call the Christian religion existed among the ancients and has not been lacking from the beginnings of the human race until the coming of Christ in the flesh, from which moment on the true religion, which already existed, began to be called Christian.\" (Retract I. XIII,3).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12666250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12666250", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Costa Rica", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Costa Rica\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Costa Rica consists only of a Latin hierarchy, <br>joint in the national Episcopal conference of Costa Rica, comprising only one ecclesiastical province headed by a Metropolitan archbishop, with seven suffragan dioceses each headed by a bishop.\n\nThere are no eastern Catholic, pre-diocesan or other exempt jurisdictions.\n\nThere are no titular sees. All defunct jurisdictions have current successor sees.\n\nThere is an Apostolic Nunciature to Costa Rica as papal diplomatic representation (embassy) level) in national capital San José de Costa Rica.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16172394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16172394", "title": "List of animated Islamic films", "text": "List of animated Islamic films\n\nThis is a list of animated films on Islam and Islamic history.\n\n"}
{"id": "58613117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58613117", "title": "List of former mosques in Portugal", "text": "List of former mosques in Portugal\n\nThis is a list of former mosques in Portugal. It lists some but by no means all of the former mosques of Portugal. It lists former Muslim mosques (Portuguese: Mezquita Arabic: Masjid) and Islamic places of worship in Portugal. \n\nThe term former mosque in this list includes any mosque (building) or site used for Islamic Prayer (Salah) in Portugal but is not so any longer. \n\nMost of the former Portuguese mosques were built and used as Muslim places of worship during the Al-Andalus era when several Muslim Moorish kingdoms and empires ruled large parts of the Iberian Peninsula including most of modern Portugal. Many former mosques and Islamic religious buildings were either converted into churches or demolished after the Christian Reconquista of the Iberian Peninsula. However, this list does not include the former mosques in Spain that were built during Al-andalus period.\n\nMosques were important buildings during Arab Moor rule in Portugal. They formed an important part of Moorish architecture. Portuguese mosques and religious buildings had a square plan layout. Minaret towers were normally built in a corner of the mosque. They were used for announcing the Islamic prayer call known as Adhan, five times a day. The qibla or direction the faithful should face when performing Islamic prayers (Salah) was indicated by a small niche called mihrab on the main wall. The mihrab and minaret usually projected out from the main walls of the mosque. \n\nIn some mosques like the former Great mosque of Silves, water tanks or cisterns were built to store and supply water for Wudu, the washing ritual performed before prayers. Horseshoe arches were a distinctive Iberian Moor architectural feature. They were commonly used to frame doorways, windows or just as decoration in Portuguese mosques. Four horseshoe doorways remain that opened into a inner courtyard or Sahn remain in Mertola mosque. Mihrabs, horseshoe arches and door frames were decorated with detailed patterns formed by intertwining lines, known as arabesque. They had patterns of geometric and floral motifs. Simple shapes, repeated in symmetrical arrays giving a beautiful artistic finish. Unfortunately unlike neighboring Spain only a few of these original mosques and religious structures are still standing. \n\n\"Note\": \"Mesquita\" means mosque in the Portuguese language.\n\n"}
{"id": "20174969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20174969", "title": "List of parishes in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Fresno", "text": "List of parishes in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Fresno\n\nThis is a list of parishes located in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Fresno, in California.\n\nClovis (1)\nCoalinga (1)\nEaston (1)\nFirebaugh (1)\nFowler (1)\nFresno (13)\nHuron (1)\nKerman (1)\nKingsburg (1)\nLaton (1)\nMendota (1)\nOrange Cove (1)\nParlier (1)\nReedley (1)\nRiverdale (1)\nSanger & Del Rey (1)\nSelma (1)\nTranquility (1)\nBishop (1)\nLone Pine (1)\nArvin (1)\nBakersfield (9)\nButtonwillow (1) \nCalifornia City (1)\nDelano (2)\nFrazier Park (1)\nLamont (1)\nMcFarland\nRidgecrest\nRosamond\nShafter\nTaft (1)\nTehachapi (1)\nWasco (1)\nWofford Heights (1)\nAvenal (1)\nCorcoran (1)\nHanford (2)\nLemoore (1)\nChowchilla \nMadera\nOakhurst\nMariposa\nYosemite\nAtwater (1)\nDos Palos (1)\nGustine (1)\nHilmar (1)\nLivingston (1)\nLos Banos (1)\nMerced (2)\nPlanada (1)\nCutler (1)\nDinuba (1)\nEarlimart' (1)\nExeter (1)\nGoshen (1)\nLindsay (1)\nPoterville (2)\nTipton (1)\nTulare (1)\nVisalia (2)\nWoodlake (1)\n"}
{"id": "13632743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13632743", "title": "List of secularist organizations", "text": "List of secularist organizations\n\nSecularist organizations promote the view that moral standards should be based solely on concern for the good of humanity in the present, without reference to supernatural concepts, such as God or an afterlife, any desire to do good for a reward after death, or any fear of punishment for not believing in life after death. The term \"secularism\", as coined and promulgated by George Jacob Holyoake, originally referred to such a view. \"Secularism\" may also refer to the belief that government should be neutral on matters of religion, and that church and state should be separate. The term here is used in the first sense, though most organizations listed here also support secularism in the second sense.\n\nSecularists, and their organizations, identify themselves by a variety of terms, including, bright, freethinker, naturalist, rationalist, or skeptic. Despite the use of these various terms, the organizations listed here have secularist goals in common. Note that, while most of these organizations and their members consider themselves irreligious, there are certain exceptions (Ethical Culture, for example).\n\nIn some jurisdictions, a provincial or national humanist society may confer upon Humanist officiants the ability to conduct memorial services, child naming ceremonies or officiate marriages — tasks which would be carried out by clergy in most organized religions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18136623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18136623", "title": "Malaysia Hindudharma Mamandram", "text": "Malaysia Hindudharma Mamandram\n\nMalaysia Hindu Dharma Mamandram, also known as Mamandram, is a Hindu-based non-governmental organisation in Malaysia. Malaysia Hindu Dharma Mamandram was founded in 1982 in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and has about 35 active branches in various parts of the country. It is dedicated to serving Hindus in Malaysia through religious education and spiritual development by disseminating knowledge about moral values.\n\nMalaysia Hindudharma Mamandram has been an integral part of negotiations with the government of Malaysia in addressing the misgivings of Indians in Malaysia, a problem that came to the fore with the HINDRAF-led rallies in the capital Kuala Lumpur on 25 November 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10827340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10827340", "title": "Mayian", "text": "Mayian\n\nMayian is the term used for the preparation ceremony one day before a Punjabi wedding. This ceremony is a late afternoon or early evening festival, at the couple's parental homes. It consists of many rites, including the \"Batna\", \"Choora\", \"Jaggo\" fireworks and sometimes the Ladies \"Sangeet\" and \"mehndi\".\n\nOne day before the wedding, the ceremony of mayian is performed at the couple's respective homes. The prospective bride or groom is seated on a wooden plank called a \"patri\", and a red cloth is held above by four female relatives, while married women of the household and \"biradari\", led by the mother, rub a paste of turmeric, flour and mustard oil on his or her face, arms and legs. During the ritual women sing traditional songs and those of the biradari receive the ritual gift of \"gogley\" (Punjabi sweets specially cooked for weddings) at the end of the ceremony.\n\nOn the morning before the wedding, a ritual of \"choora\" or \"chura\" is performed at the bride-to-be's residence, involving a set of ivory and red bangles. Her maternal uncle makes a gift of clothes, jewellery and some cash called \"nankey-shak\". He puts the bangles on his niece while the women sing traditional songs depicting the role of maternal uncles. Before the wedding ceremony, the bride-to-be takes a ritual bath and dresses in the clothes in which she will be wed, provided by her maternal uncles. Similarly, the bridegroom-to-be also receives a set of clothes called \"sherwani\" from his maternal uncles which he, too, wears at the wedding ceremony. It signifies the importance of the role of the mother's natal family at the wedding rituals, and reinforces the alliance established at the mother's own wedding.\n\nIn the \"Batna\" rite, the couple's families rub yellow turmeric paste upon their legs, face, and arms while sitting on a \"patri\" (a special red board with embroidery) below a red cloth held by four women. This is done to cleanse and balance the body for married life.\n\nIn the \"Jaggo\" ceremony, the family dances and sings on the road in front and around the beautifully decorated wedding home. Jaggo is held in the last hours of the night. Copper vessels called \"gaffers\" are decorated with divas (clay lamps), filled with mustard oil, and lit. The bride/bridegroom's maternal aunt (\"mammi\") carries it on her head, and another lady carries a long stick with bells, which she shakes. The ladies then go into other friends' and families' homes to be welcomed with sweets and drinks. They dance there and move on. It is a solemn ceremony filled with joy, dancing, fireworks, and food. The Ladies \"Sangeet\" (Ladies' Night of Singing) and \"mehndi\" might follow the \"mayian\" and dinner.\n"}
{"id": "41419631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41419631", "title": "Mersin Interfaith Cemetery", "text": "Mersin Interfaith Cemetery\n\nMersin Interfaith Cemetery (, also called Mersin Asri Cemetery and Akbelen Cemetery), is a burial ground in Mersin, Turkey. It is notable for being a common cemetery of all religions and includes graves of Muslims, Christians, and Jews.\n\nThe rectangular cemetery is located in the Yusuf Kılıç neighborhood, one of the northernmost neighborhoods of Mersin. The bird's flight distance to the Mediterranean coast (hence the city center) is . Administratively, the cemetery is part of the Toroslar Municipality. Akbelen Boulevard, which connects the city center to the Toros Mountains, is to the west and Okan Merzeci Boulevard, which is a ring road of Mersin, is to the south of the cemetery. The main gate is on the south wall. The total area of the cemetery is about , including a \"soldiers-memorial cemetery\" ().\n\nUntil the 1930s there were many small cemeteries in the urban fabric of Mersin. But as the city grew, establishing a new and large cemetery became one of the priorities of the municipality. Mayor Mithat Toroğlu assigned German architect Hermann Jansen to prepare a city plan for Mersin. In 1938 the Mersin cemetery was established in one of the locations that Jansen proposed.\n\nThe cemetery originally measured and was located outside the city's residential area. Later the grounds were expanded. Toroğlu initiated a project of transferring corpses to the new cemetery, which was used up until the 2010s. There are now about 75,000 graves in the cemetery. As of 2010, the cemetery is completely filled and new quarters of the city have been established around the cemetery. The municipality has established new cemeteries that are farther away from the city center.\n\nIn Turkey all religions traditionally use many different cemeteries for their burials. Mersin City Cemetery is an exception. While different religions were initially separated by section, spousal burials brought different religions into the same plot (newspaper columnist Özdemir İnce notes that one family plot has a Muslim man and Jewish woman) and gradually the sections opened to all religions. Approximately 5,000 of the graves in the cemetery are of Christians and Jews. On 26 February 1998 the cemetery was included in the \"List of Cultural Property\" of the Ministry of Culture.\n\nİnce recalls that in 2003, both Christian priests and Muslim hocas prayed during the burial ceremony of Hanri Atat, a celebrity of Mersin. In 1999, Lina Nasif, a painter and a citizen of Mersin, organized an annual multi-religion ceremony, called a \"traditional praying ceremony\" (), to stress and preserve the characteristics of the cemetery. During the ceremony, hocas and priests pray and give speeches on peace. Hymns are sung in several languages. In a 2009 ceremony, Mersin mayor Macit Özcan stressed that the deceased of different religions all lay in peace and everybody should do his/her best to keep this feature of the cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3650673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3650673", "title": "Mirari vos", "text": "Mirari vos\n\nMirari vos - Latin: I was surprised - (On Liberalism and Religious Indifferentism), sometimes referred to as Mirari vos arbitramur, is the first encyclical of Pope Gregory XVI and was issued in August 1832. Addressed \"To All Patriarchs, Primates, Archbishops, and Bishops of the Catholic World\", it is general in scope.\n\nFelicité Robert de Lamennais, Charles Forbes René de Montalembert and Jean-Baptiste Henri Lacordaire started a newspaper, \"L'Avenir\" (\"The Future\"). While the paper was a strong proponent of Ultramontanism, supporting the authority of the papacy in opposition to nationalist and secularist ideas, it also advocated an enlarged suffrage, separation of church and state, and universal freedom of conscience, instruction, assembly, and the press. They saw no conflict between Catholicism and liberal reform. The conservative French hierarchy regarded such views as dangerous nonsense. In November 1831, Lammennais and Montalembert traveled to Rome, seeking confirmation from Pope Gregory that views expressed in their newspaper were orthodox.\n\nAlthough pressured by the French government and the French hierarchy, Pope Gregory XVI would have preferred not to make an official issue of the matter. After much opposition, they gained an audience on March 15, 1832, only on condition that their political views should not be mentioned. The meeting was apparently cordial and uneventful. Klemens von Metternich, whose Austrian troops ensured the stability of the Papal States, pressed for a condemnation.\n\nThe Pope's advisors were convinced that if he said nothing, it would viewed that he did not disapprove of Lamennais's opinions. \"Mirari vos\" was issued the following August, criticizing Lamennais's views without mentioning him by name.\n\nHe voiced support for Christian freedom, upheld the ecclesiastical supremacy of the papacy and raised concerns over alliances that were too close between the clergy and government. It denounced those who advocated a married clergy: \"We ask that you strive with all your might to justify and to defend the law of clerical celibacy as prescribed by the sacred canons, against which the arrows of the lascivious are directed from every side.\" He also denounced those who advocated divorce and secret societies that sought overturn the legitimate governments of the Italian states.\n\nHe attacked religious indifferentism, which was defined as the opinion that one religion is as good as another, which he saw as the basis for the argument for liberty of conscience. He saw it as the state's duty to restrain the promotion of false truth, which leads to immorality and so denounced freedom to publish or distribute any writings indiscriminately. Owen Chadwick explains Gregory's perspective: \"To provide legally that writers or speakers shall be free to promote what is not true or to utter words that declare that racial prejudice, or paederasty, or pornography, or adultery, or murder not to be sins, cannot be what God demands of any State.\n\nHe stated, \"Some are so carried away that they contentiously assert that the flock of errors arising from them is sufficiently compensated by the publication of some book which defends religion and truth. Every law condemns deliberately doing evil simply because there is some hope that good may result. Is there any sane man who would say poison ought to be distributed, sold publicly, stored, and even drunk because some antidote is available and those who use it may be snatched from death again and again?\n\nThe encyclical satisfied neither Lamennais's supporters nor his detractors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24084106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24084106", "title": "Northern Palace (Amarna)", "text": "Northern Palace (Amarna)\n\nThe Northern Palace, also called the North Palace, is located in the abandoned Northern Suburbs of the city of Ahketaten (modern Amarna, in Egypt). This palace should not be confused with the North Riverside Palace further north in Amarna. \n\nThe North Palace is situated between the North Suburb and the North City of Amarna. It is an isolated building facing west to the river and oriented perpendicularly with respect to an extension of the Royal Road. The rectangular structure is arranged around a large open space. On one end of the open space is a throne-room complex. The complex included a pillared hall and a stone built balcony. Next to that area was the private bedroom and bathroom. \n\nTo the north of the throne room is a garden court with rooms for personal servants. The staff may have included the unguent preparer Ramose known from two letters that place in Meritaten's household. To the south of the throne-room are further servant quarters. On one side of the open center is and area that was used to house animals. The mangers were decorated with images of cattle, ibexes and antelopes. The structure featured limestone feeding troughs and mangers combined with tethering stones. \n\nThe palace is well known for its decorations. Many of the decorations were found in their original position. Common themes include papyrus plants growing in a swampy environment with birds and butterflies. \n\nThe residence was initially the home of one of Akhenaten's Queens. It had been proposed that the palace was the home of the great Royal Wife Nefertiti, and that the palace was later given as the primary residence of the eldest royal daughter Meritaten. In recent times however it has become clear that the palace was the home of Queen Kiya, and that after her death the palace became the residence of Meritaten. \n\n"}
{"id": "28603993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28603993", "title": "Oz Almog", "text": "Oz Almog\n\nOz Almog is an Israeli artist and author who was born on 15 April 1956, in Kfar Saba, Israel.\n\nOz Almog was born to a family of Russian/Ukrainian pioneers (Avrutzki) and Romanian/Russian immigrants (Abramovich). After studying classical painting and completing his military service in the Israeli Navy, he studied at the Vienna Academy of Fine Arts.\n\nOz Almog's artistic work is confrontational and provocative. In the 1980s, as a student of the Academy of Fine Arts in Austria, Almog took an active part with in off-scene underground culture in Europe. In the 1990s he addressed complex issues of human sexuality, totalitarian ideologies, consumerism and terrorism. In 1994, his \"Birth of a Myth\" (German title \"Geburt eines Mythos\") exhibition took place at WUK, an alternative arts center in Vienna. The center was converted into a shrine with flags and a flower-strewn floor. In some 70 oil paintings Almog auto-portrayed himself in the style of Nazi art, classicism and social realism as a ruler and savior, as a naked, provocatively muscle-bound godlike figure, as a fiery agitator or simply with the stern regard of a stormtrooper, complete with leather belt and jackboots.\n\nAlmog’s 1995 exhibition \"The Psychonaut and His Mind Navigator\", featured 360 oils, mostly self-portraits in the style of pulp magazine covers. The artist presented himself as a lecherous vampire drooling over a beautiful blond, a revolver-toting gangster, a crazed toy alien, or monstrously endowed porno star. The same year Oz Almog undertook the project \"En Face – Not seen and/or less seen of/by\", reconstructing the images of the famous visual artists by using an original collection of interchangeable facial features' templates of Austrian Federal Police from the 70s. This was followed by conceptual exhibitions: \"Blok Brut\" (auto-erotic deaths) and \"Blood Addict - Bloody scenes of Murder 1949-1960\", presented in Janco Dada Museum in Israel in 1997, and \"Shaheed\" (Suicide Terror phenomena) in Limbus Gallery, Tel Aviv. It is a series of selected real police photos of fatal auto-erotic strangulations, extracts from the scene-of-the-crime photos, metamorphosed with real blood into abstract light and dark compositions,\n\nWith his exhibition \"Him too? ... A Chronicle of a Cultural Obsession\", Oz Almog confronts visitors with the question as to what Anne Frank and Jesus, Bob Dylan and Fred Astaire, Mr. Spock and Albert Einstein, Frida Kahlo and Madeleine Albright could possibly have in common. In more than 400 small size oil portraits, each accompanied by a short biography, Oz Almog features flamboyant heroes and anti-heroes whose only common denomination is their Jewish origin: names like Baruch Spinoza, Jack Ruby, Bob Dylan and Rosa Luxemburg. Showing the opposite to the racist anthropologists image of the Jewish Face and underling the diversity, Almog selected the personalities portrayed from the Bible, Myth and Heroic tales, Nobel laureates, politicians and soldiers, humanists, Hollywood celebrities, saints, freaks, gangsters and murderers – people who made history.Albert Einstein rubs shoulders with fashion designer Ralph Lauren, sex symbol Hedy Lamarr with the writer Franz Kafka, actress Winona Ryder with Rabbi Abraham Isaac Kook, film director Stanley Kubrick with gangster Benjamin “Bugsy” Siegel, Meyer Lansky with rock musicians Gene Simmons, Paul Stanley and Lenny Kravitz. There are also numerous local celebrities such as Leonard Cohen, the rock musician Marc Bolan, film director and producer Sir Alexander Korda, politician Benjamin Disraeli and many more. After being presented in the Jewish Museum, Vienna in 1999, the exhibition traveled for full 10 years and was seen in Tel Aviv, Berlin, London, Amsterdam, Rendsburg, Budapest, Belgrade, Sarajevo, Subotica and many more European cities.\n\n\"Aktion T-4: Opera Euthanasia\" – part of the Memorial exhibition at the Upper Austrian State Museum, Linz in the year 2000 – featured a child's bedroom with over 350 paintings of prominent Nazis, serial killers and other criminals and once again produced a massive public reaction. \"Wiener en face – Portraits of Careers\" (Viennese en face – Portraits of Careers), with 350 paintings of prominent Viennese personalities, was shown from October 2000 to April 2001 at the Hermes Villa (part of the Historical Museum of the City of Vienna). It has been followed by \"Towards the Light of Dawn – Jewish Heroes of the Soviet Union\" (Dem Morgenrot Entgegen). With this exhibition Oz Almog has attempted to uncover what he says is the \"repressed history\" of the 500,000 Jews who fought in the Soviet army – a third of the 1.5 million Jewish soldiers from all Allied nations.\n\nIn the exhibition \"Kosher Nostra. Jewish Gangsters in America 1890–1980\", Oz Almog created an impressive documentary summary of an entire epoch of crimes committed by Jewish gangsters. Through pictures, newspaper articles, and official documents, he showed how such criminals as Meyer Lansky, Benjamin \"Bugsy\" Siegel, and Louis \"Lepke\" Buchalter had a determining influence on the development of organized crime in America. \"Kosher Nostra\", shown in 2004-2005 at the Jewish Museum, Vienna, featured more than 160 realistic oil portraits, with most of personalities shown both full-face and from profile. Each \"mug shot\" was accompanied with a short biography, resulting in two books with over 1000 pages.\n\nIn 2004 Oz Almog presented his art installation \"Colors of War\". \"Camouflage\" was shown in the Imperial Furniture Museum in Vienna, exhibiting the original furniture of Austo-Hungarian Emperors, re-furbished with the military camouflage fabrics. \"A Warrior Cult\" was on view at the Jewish Museum featuring the mosaic of shoulder sleeve insignias oil paintings. \n2007/08 a number of international artists joined Almog in \"Judaica Kid’s Box\" project, taking up the challenge of presenting Jewish tradition, concepts, symbolism, thought and teachings in a form accessible to children. The colorful and entertaining presentation was designed to provide young and \"adult\" children with the means to understand the significance of the Hebrew alphabet. \"Judaica Kid’s Box\" was running for more than two years in the Jewish Museum, Vienna. At the same time Oz presented an exhibition entitled \"GODDEVILAETHEAR - Oz Almog + Wilhelm Reich: A Journey to Hell\" (\"GOTTTEUFELAETHER - Oz Almog + Wilhelm Reich: Ausfluss der Hölle\"). Like Wilhelm Reich has a fanatical and often esoterically inspired following, so here we have Oz’s artistic interpretation of the complex plane of Wilhelm Reich’s concepts in conjunction with a dark, phantasmagorical underworld of Jewish Hell (Gehinom).\n\nIn 2010 Oz Almog showed in Jewish Museum, Vienna, the exhibition \"Walls of Sound – Jewish Worlds of Music\" featuring Jewish music and Jewish musicians.\nIn 2011 Oz Almog released with DJ Shantel the compilation CD \"Kosher Nostra: Jewish Gangsters Greatest Hits\", containing a wild mix of swing, jazz, twist, Charleston and Yiddish songs, the sound of the American Jewish Mafia throughout the '20s to the '60s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39517992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39517992", "title": "Paul Iby", "text": "Paul Iby\n\nPaul Iby, (January 23, 1935, Doborján ()) is Bishop Emeritus of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Eisenstadt, Austria.\n\nBishop Iby is convinced the Catholic church should drop its celibacy requirement for priests. It should be up to priests to decide whether they want to live a celibate life. \"It should be at the discretion of every priest whether to live in voluntary celibacy or in a family,\" Die Presse quoted Iby as saying.\n\nHe would also welcome it if married men could be ordained.\n\nBishop Iby also said that eventually the ordination of women should be considered.\n\nIby indicated that a “more welcoming church,” one that “is more free and open,” would relax its attitude toward homosexuality and give approval to divorced couples who have entered another relationship while their spouses are still living.\n\n“It means to cease the discrimination of homosexuals and finding a solution for divorcees,” said Iby. “What we suggest is looking at the Orthodox church: after a time of penance, the blessing of a second relationship should be possible. Only nothing is moving in Rome!”\n"}
{"id": "40184217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40184217", "title": "Religion in Catalonia", "text": "Religion in Catalonia\n\nReligion in Catalonia is diversified. Historically, virtually all the population was Christian, specifically Catholic, but since the 1980 there has been a trend of decline of Christianity and parallel growth of irreligion and other religions. The secularisation of Catalan culture started in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, but conscious disaffiliation from Catholicism has also been driven since the 1980s by the religion's association with Francoist Spain. According to the most recent study sponsored by the government of Catalonia, as of 2016, 61.9% of the Catalans identify as Christians, up from 56.5% in 2014, of whom 58.0% Catholics, 3.0% Protestants and Evangelicals, 0.9% Orthodox Christians and 0.6% Jehovah's Witnesses. At the same time, 16.0% of the population identify as atheists, 11.9% as agnostics, 4.8% as Muslims, 1.3% as Buddhists, and a further 2.4% as being of other religions.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith has nearly one thousand members and nine centres in Catalonia as of 2014. The first Bahá'í group in Catalonia was established in Barcelona in 1949, while the first formal centre was inaugurated in Terrassa, in the Vallès Occidental, in 1962. The Vallès Occidental is still the region where most of the Catalan Bahá'ís reside, and where six out of the nine Bahá'í centres are situated. Most Bahá'ís are ethnic Catalan converts, while a small minority are immigrants of Iranian or other origins.\n\n1.3% of the Catalans identify as Buddhists as of 2016. Buddhism has 68 temples in Catalonia as of the same year, holding their services in Catalan, Spanish, Chinese and Tibetan language, reflecting the ethnic origins of the Buddhist community. The majority of Buddhists, though, are ethnic Catalan converts. These practise a variety of traditions of Buddhism, collectively represented since 2007 by the Catalan Coordinator of Buddhist Entities (\"Coordinadora Catalana d’Entitats Budistes\", CCEB). Buddhist temples in Catalonia are mostly of the Tibetan (54%) and Zen (32%) traditions as of 2014, with the rest representing other traditions such as Pure Land Buddhism and Soka Gakkai's Nichiren Buddhism.\n\n61.9% of the population of Catalonia identify as Christians as of 2016.\n\n58.0% of the Catalans identify as Catholics as of 2016. There are 6,701 Catholic churches as of the same year.\n\n0.9% of the Catalans identify as Orthodox Christians as of 2016. As of the same year, there are 55 Orthodox Christian and Eastern Catholic churches (most of them being Orthodox Christian) in the country, mostly for Romanian and Ukrainian-speaking communities (the few Eastern Catholic churches being of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic tradition), with a small proportion of Arabic and Greek-speaking churches.\n\n3.0% of the Catalans identify as Protestants or Evangelicals as of 2016. As of 2014 there are 725 Protestant and Evangelical churches in Catalonia, which conduct their services mostly in Spanish, Catalan, English, Romanian, and a minority in Korean, Russian, Brazilian Portuguese and African languages. Many followers are immigrants from South America, Africa and Eastern Europe. Most churches are Evangelical, 469 of them belonging to Pentecostalism, while historical Protestantism (Anglicanism, Lutheranism, Methodism, Presbyterianism) is represented by less than 20% of the churches.\n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Church has about 1,500 members in Catalonia, belonging to 24 churches. Most of these churches hold their services in Spanish and Catalan, with a minority using Romanian, and an even smaller minority using languages of Ghana.\n\n0.6% of the Catalans identify as Jehovah's Witnesses as of 2014. As of the same year, there are 118 Jehovah's kingdom halls in the country, found in all co-marches of Catalonia but with a high concentration in the province of Barcelona. Most Jehovah's Witnesses are ethnic Catalans.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, the major body of Mormonism, has more than 6,000 members and 15 places of worship as of 2014, most of them using Spanish as their liturgical language. Many Mormons in Catalonia are South American immigrants, and this is the reason why Spanish is the primary language of the Mormon communities in the country.\n\nGermanic Heathenry is represented in Catalonia by \"Gotland Forn Sed\" (Scandinavian Germanic for \"Gothland Old Belief\"). Catalonia in the early Middle Ages was known as the March of Gothia within the Carolingian Empire. It was an area of settlement of Visigoths and the same name \"Catalonia\" (\"Catalunya\") is traditionally explained as being an alteration of \"Gothland\", through the Latinisation \"Gothalandia\", and then the early alteration \"Cathalaunia\".\n\nHinduism has 27 temples in Catalonia as of 2014, 14 of which are situated in the province of Barcelona. The religion is mostly represented by Indian immigrants, though there is also a significant number of Catalan converts. Indeed, the vast majority of Hindu temples hold their services in Catalan or Spanish language. Hindus in Catalonia follow a variety of traditions of worship and thought.\n\n4.8% of the population of Catalonia identify as Muslims as of 2016. There are 256 mosques in Catalonia as of the same year, most of them holding their services in Arabic, with a smaller proportion of mosques serving in Urdu and an even smaller one in some African languages. Nearly all mosques are of the Sunni tradition, with only one mosque representing Shia Islam. There are also six Sufi centres. As of 2014 there are five organisations of Muslims in Catalonia: the Catalan Islamic Federation (\"Federació Islàmica Catalana\"), the Islamic Federative Council of Catalonia (\"Federació Consell Islàmic de Catalunya\"), the Union of Islamic Communities of Catalonia (\"Unió de Comunitats Islàmiques de Catalunya\"), the Union of Islamic Cultural Centres of Catalonia (\"Unió de Centres Culturals Islàmics de Catalunya\") and an umbrella organisation, the Islamic Junta (\"Junta Islàmica\").\n\nJews in Catalonia are about 15,000 as of 2014, and there are four synagogues in the country. Not all Jews are followers of the Jewish religion. Indeed, 80% of Jews in Catalonia are non-religious or secular, while only 20% are observant. The Israelitic Community of Barcelona (\"Comunitat Israelita de Barcelona\", CIB), is the oldest Jewish religious community in Catalonia, founded in 1918, and follows Orthodox Judaism. In 1992 the Jewish Community Atid of Catalonia (\"Comunitat Jueva Atid de Catalunya\") was established as a splinter of the CIB, adopting Reform Judaism. In the early 2000s a Chabad-Lubavitch, Hasidic Orthodox, outreach centre was founded in Catalonia. In 2006 another Reform group, the Progressive Jewish Community Bet Shalom, was founded as a splinter of Atid.\n\nEthnically, Jews who belong to the CIB are predominantly Sephardi, although there is a small minority of Ashkenazi as well. Members of Atid are, instead, mostly of South American origin, specifically Argentines. Endly, Bet Shalom predominantly hosts ethnic Catalan converts, and other minorities of converts without ethnic Jewish origin.\n\nSikhism in Catalonia has ten temples (gurdwaras) as of 2014 and some thousands of believers. Virtually all Sikhs are Punjabis who immigrated from the Punjab region of India, Sikhism being strongly linked to the Punjabi ethnicity.\n\nTaoism has six registered temples in Catalonia as of 2014, most of them holding their services in Catalan or Spanish language. Of these temples, five are situated in the province of Barcelona, where most Chinese immigrants, who the temples serve, are gathered. There are also many ethnic Catalan converts. Catalan Taoists have established the Taoist Association of Catalonia (\"Associació Taoista de Catalunya\"), led by the Chinese Taoist priest Tian Chengyang, while at the same time there are many Chinese Taoist centres which do not use Catalan language and do not integrate in the broader society.\n\nThe first Taoist group in Catalonia was established in 1979 by a Catholic priest of Chinese origin, Peter Yang, who proposed a synthesis of Taoism and Christianity. All the other centres have been established from 2000 onwards. Another was opened in 2014 by the Chinese of Barcelona, led by master Liu Zemin, a 21st-generation descendant of poet, soldier and prophet Liu Bowen (1311-1375). The temple, located in the district of Sant Martí and inaugurated in the presence of the People's Republic of China consul Qu Chengwu, enshrines 28 deities of the province of China where most of the Chinese in Barcelona come from.\n\n27.9% of the Catalans identify as irreligious as of 2016. Of them, 16.0% are atheists and 11.9% are agnostics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "725516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=725516", "title": "Religious war", "text": "Religious war\n\nA religious war or holy war () is a war primarily caused or justified by differences in religion. In the modern period, debates are common over the extent to which religious, economic, or ethnic aspects of a conflict predominate in a given war. According to the \"Encyclopedia of Wars\", out of all 1,763 known/recorded historical conflicts, 123, or 6.98%, had religion as their primary cause, and of that percentage, 65, or 53.66%, were related to Islam. Matthew White's \"The Great Big Book of Horrible Things\" gives religion as the cause of 13 of the world's 100 deadliest atrocities. In several conflicts including the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, the Syrian civil war, and the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, religious elements are overtly present but variously described as fundamentalism or religious extremism—depending upon the observer's sympathies. However, studies on these cases often conclude that ethnic animosities drive much of the conflicts.\n\nSome historians argue that what is termed \"religious wars\" is a largely \"Western dichotomy\" and a modern invention from the past few centuries, arguing that all wars that are classed as \"religious\" have secular (economic or political) ramifications. Similar opinions were expressed as early as the 1760s, during the Seven Years' War, widely recognized to be \"religious\" in motivation, noting that the warring factions were not necessarily split along confessional lines as much as along secular interests.\n\nAccording to Jeffrey Burton Russell, numerous cases of supposed acts of religious wars such as the Thirty Years War, the French Wars of Religion, the Sri Lankan Civil War, 9/11 and other terrorist attacks, the Bosnian War, and the Rwandan Civil War were all primarily motivated by social, political, and economic issues rather than religion.\n\nThe modern word \"religion\" comes from the Latin word \"religio\". In the ancient and medieval world, the etymological Latin root \"religio\" was understood as an individual virtue of worship, never as doctrine, practice, or actual source of knowledge. The modern concept of \"religion\" as an abstraction which entails distinct sets of beliefs or doctrines is a recent invention in the English language since such usage began with texts from the 17th century due to the splitting of Christendom during the Protestant Reformation and more prevalent colonization or globalization in the age of exploration which involved contact with numerous foreign and indigenous cultures with non-European languages. It was in the 17th century that the concept of \"religion\" received its modern shape despite the fact that ancient texts like the Bible, the Quran, and other ancient sacred texts did not have a concept of religion in the original languages and neither did the people or the cultures in which these sacred texts were written. For example, the Greek word \"threskeia\", which was used by Greek writers such as Herodotus and Josephus and is found in texts like the New Testament, is sometimes translated as \"religion\" today, however, the term was understood as \"worship\" well into the medieval period. In the Quran, the Arabic word \"din\" is often translated as \"religion\" in modern translations, but up to the mid-1600s translators expressed \"din\" as \"law\". Even in the 1st century AD, Josephus had used the Greek term \"ioudaismos\", which some translate as \"Judaism\" today, even though he used it as an ethnic term, not one linked to modern abstract concepts of religion as a set of beliefs. It was in the 19th century that the terms \"Buddhism\", \"Hinduism\", \"Taoism\", and \"Confucianism\" first emerged. Throughout its long history, Japan had no concept of \"religion\" since there was no corresponding Japanese word, nor anything close to its meaning, but when American warships appeared off the coast of Japan in 1853 and forced the Japanese government to sign treaties demanding, among other things, freedom of religion, the country had to contend with this Western idea.\n\nAccording to the philologist Max Müller in the 19th century, the root of the English word \"religion\", the Latin \"religio\", was originally used to mean only \"reverence for God or the gods, careful pondering of divine things, piety\" (which Cicero further derived to mean \"diligence\"). Max Müller characterized many other cultures around the world, including Egypt, Persia, and India, as having a similar power structure at this point in history. What is called ancient religion today, they would have only called \"law\".\n\nSome languages have words that can be translated as \"religion\", but they may use them in a very different way, and some have no word for religion at all. For example, the Sanskrit word dharma, sometimes translated as \"religion\", also means law. Throughout classical South Asia, the study of law consisted of concepts such as penance through piety and ceremonial as well as practical traditions. Medieval Japan at first had a similar union between \"imperial law\" and universal or \"Buddha law\", but these later became independent sources of power.\n\nThere is no precise equivalent of \"religion\" in Hebrew, and Judaism does not distinguish clearly between religious, national, racial, or ethnic identities. One of its central concepts is \"halakha\", meaning the \"walk\" or \"path\" sometimes translated as \"law\", which guides religious practice and belief and many aspects of daily life.\n\nThe Crusades against Muslim expansion in the 11th century was recognized as a \"holy war\" or \"bellum sacrum\" by later writers in the 17th century. The early modern wars against the Ottoman Empire were seen as a seamless continuation of this conflict by contemporaries.\nThe term \"religious war\" was used to describe, controversially at the time, what are now known as the European wars of religion, and especially the then-ongoing Seven Years' War, from at least the mid 18th century.\n\nIn their \"Encyclopedia of Wars\", authors Charles Phillips and Alan Axelrod document 1763 notable wars in world history. They note that before the 17th century, much of the \"reasons\" for conflicts were explained through the lens of religion and that after that time wars were explained through the lens of wars as a way to further sovereign interests. They note, \"Wars have always arisen, and arise today, from territorial disputes, military rivalries, conflicts of ethnicity, and strivings for commercial and economic advantage, and they have always depended on, and depend on today, pride, prejudice, coercion, envy, cupidity, competitiveness, and a sense of injustice. But for much of the world before the 17th century, these “reasons” for war were explained and justified, at least for the participants, by religion. Then, around the middle of the 17th century, Europeans began to conceive of war as a legitimate means of furthering the interests of individual sovereigns.\" Some commentators have concluded that only 123 wars (7%) out of these 1763 wars were fundamentally originated by religious motivations. Religious wars account for less than 2% of all people killed in warfare. This includes 3 million during the Crusades and 3,000 during the Inquisition.\n\n\"The Encyclopedia of War\", edited by Gordon Martel, using the criteria that the armed conflict must involve some overt religious action, concludes that 6% of the wars listed in their encyclopedia can be labelled religious wars.\n\nWilliam T. Cavanaugh in his \"Myth of Religious Violence\" (2009) argues that what is termed \"religious wars\" is a largely \"Western dichotomy\" and a modern invention, arguing that all wars that are classed as \"religious\" have secular (economic or political) ramifications. Similar opinions were expressed as early as the 1760s, during the Seven Years' War, widely recognized to be \"religious\" in motivation, noting that the warring factions were not necessarily split along confessional lines as much as along secular interests.\n\nIt is evident that religion as one aspect of a people's cultural heritage may serve as a cultural marker or ideological rationalisation for a conflict that has deeper ethnic and cultural differences. This has been specifically argued for the case of The Troubles in Northern Ireland, often portrayed as a religious conflict of a Catholic vs. a Protestant faction, while the more fundamental cause of the conflict was in fact ethnic or nationalistic rather than religious in nature. Since the native Irish were mostly Catholic and the later British-sponsored immigrants were mainly Protestant, the terms become shorthand for the two cultures, but it is inaccurate to describe the conflict as a religious one.\n\nAccording to Irfan Omar and Michael Duffey's review of violence and peacemaking in world religions, they note that studies of supposed cases of religious violence often conclude that violence is strongly driven by ethnic animosities.\n\nWhile early empires could be described as henotheistic, i.e. dominated by a single god of the ruling elite (as Marduk in the Babylonian empire, Assur in the Assyrian empire, etc.), or more directly by deifing the ruler in an imperial cult, the concept of \"Holy War\" enters a new phase with the development of monotheism.\n\nClassical Antiquity had a pantheon with particular attributes and interest areas. Ares personified war. While he received occasional sacrifice from armies going to war, there was only a very limited \"cult of Ares\". In Sparta, however, each company of youths sacrificed to Enyalios before engaging in ritual fighting at the Phoebaeum.\n\nIn early Christianity, St. Augustine's concept of just war (\"bellum iustum\") was widely accepted, but warfare was not regarded as a virtuous activity and expressions of concern for the salvation of those who killed enemies in battle, regardless of the cause for which they fought, was common. According to historian Edward Peters, before the 11th century Christians had not developed a concept of \"Holy War\" (\"bellum sacrum\"), whereby fighting itself might be considered a penitential and spiritually meritorious act. During the 9th and 10th centuries, multiple invasions occurred which lead some regions to make their own armies to defend themselves and this slowly lead to the emergence of the Crusades, the concept of \"holy war\", and terminology such as \"enemies of God\" in the 11th century.\n\nDuring the time of the Crusades, some of those who fought in the name of God were recognized as the \"Milites Christi\", soldiers or knights of Christ.\nThe Crusades were a series of military campaigns that took place during the 11th through 13th centuries against the Muslim Conquests. Originally, the goal was to recapture Jerusalem and the Holy Land from the Muslims, and support the besieged Christian Byzantine Empire against the Muslim Seljuq expansion into Asia Minor and Europe proper. Later, Crusades were launched against other targets, either for religious reasons, such as the Albigensian Crusade, the Northern Crusades, or because of political conflict, such as the Aragonese Crusade. In 1095, at the Council of Clermont, Pope Urban II raised the level of war from \"bellum iustum\" (\"just war\"), to \"bellum sacrum\" (\"holy war\"). In 16th-century France there was a succession of wars between Roman Catholics and Protestants (Hugenots primarily), known as the French Wars of Religion. In the first half of the 17th century, the German states, Scandinavia (Sweden, primarily) and Poland were beset by religious warfare in the Thirty Years War. Roman Catholicism and Protestantism figured in the opposing sides of this conflict, though Catholic France did take the side of the Protestants but purely for political reasons.\n\nThe Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa, known in Arab history as the Battle of Al-Uqab (معركة العقاب), took place on 16 July 1212 and was an important turning point in the \"Reconquista\" and in the medieval history of Spain. The forces of King Alfonso VIII of Castile were joined by the armies of his Christian rivals, Sancho VII of Navarre, Pedro II of Aragon and Afonso II of Portugal in battle against the Berber Muslim Almohad conquerors of the southern half of the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nThe Muslim conquests were a military expansion on an unprecedented scale, beginning in the lifetime of Muhammad and spanning the centuries, down to the Ottoman wars in Europe. Until the 13th century, the Muslim conquests were those of a more or less coherent empire, the Caliphate, but after the Mongol invasions, expansion continued on all fronts (other than Iberia which was lost in the Reconquista) for another half millennium until the final collapse of the Mughal Empire in the east and the Ottoman Empire in the west with the onset of the modern period.\n\nThere were also a number of periods of infighting among Muslims; these are known by the term Fitna and mostly concern the early period of Islam, from the 7th to 11th centuries, i.e. before the collapse of the Caliphate and the emergence of the various later Islamic empires.\n\nWhile technically, the millennium of Muslim conquests could be classified as \"religious war\", the applicability of the term has been questioned.\nThe reason is that the very notion of a \"religious war\" as opposed to a \"secular war\" is the result of the Western concept of the separation of Church and State. No such division has ever existed in the Islamic world, and consequently there cannot be a real division between wars that are \"religious\" from such that are \"non-religious\". Islam does not have any normative tradition of pacifism, and warfare has been integral part of Islamic history both for the defense and the spread of the faith since the time of Muhammad. This was formalised in the juristic definition of war in Islam, which continues to hold normative power in contemporary Islam, inextricably linking political and religious justification of war. This normative concept is known as \"Jihad\", an Arabic word with the meaning \"to strive; to struggle\" (viz. \"in the way of God\"), which includes the aspect of struggle \"by the sword\".\n\nThe first forms of military Jihad occurred after the migration (hijra) of Muhammad and his small group of followers to Medina from Mecca and the conversion of several inhabitants of the city to Islam. The first revelation concerning the struggle against the Meccans was surah 22, verses 39-40: \nThis happened many times throughout history, beginning with Muhammad's battles against the polytheist Arabs including the Battle of Badr (624), and battles in Uhud (625), Khandaq (627), Mecca (630) and Hunayn (630).\n\nIn the Jewish religion, the expression \"Milkhemet Mitzvah\" (Hebrew: מלחמת מצווה, \"commandment war\") refers to a war that is obligatory for all Jews (men and women). Such wars were limited to territory within the borders of the land of Israel. The geographical limits of Israel and conflicts with surrounding nations are detailed in the Tanakh, the Hebrew Bible, especially in Numbers 34:1-15 and Ezekiel 47:13-20. The concept of a religious war was absent in Jewish thought for approximately 2000 years, though it reemerged in some factions of the Zionist movement, particularly Revisionist Zionism. \"From the earliest days of Israel's existence as a people, holy war was a sacred institution, undertaken as a cultic act of a religious community.\n\nAccording to Reuven Firestone, \"\"Holy War\" is a Western concept referring to war that is fought for religion, against adherents of other religions, often in order to promote religion through conversion, and with no specific geographic limitation. This concept does not occur in the Hebrew Bible, whose wars are not fought for religion or in order to promote it but, rather, in order to preserve religion and a religiously unique people in relation to a specific and limited geography.\"\n\nThe Israeli–Palestinian conflict can be viewed primarily as an ethnic conflict between two parties where one party is most often portrayed as a singular ethno-religious group consisting only of the Jewish majority and ignores non-Jewish minority Israeli citizens who at varying levels support a Zionist state, especially the Druze and Circassians who for example volunteer in higher numbers for IDF combat service and are represented in the Israeli parliament in greater percentages than Israeli Jews are as well as Israeli Arabs, Samaritans, various other Christians, and Negev Bedouin; the other party is sometimes presented as an ethnic group which is multi-religious (although most numerously consisting of Muslims, then Christians, then other religious groups up to and including Samaritans and even Jews). Yet despite the multi-religious composition of both of the parties in the conflict, elements on both sides often view it as a religious war between Jews and Muslims. In 1929, religious tensions between Muslim and Jewish Palestinians over Jews praying at the Wailing Wall led to the 1929 Palestine riots including the Hebron and Safed ethnic cleansings of Jews.\n\nIn 1947, the UN decided on partitioning the Mandate of Palestine, led to the creation of the state of Israel and Jordan annexing the West Bank portion of the mandate, since then the region has been plagued with conflict. The 1948 Palestinian exodus also known as the \"Nakba\" (), occurred when approximately 711,000 to 726,000 Palestinian Arabs fled or were expelled from their homes, during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War and the Civil War that preceded it. The exact number of refugees is a matter of dispute, though the number of Palestine refugees and their unsettled descendants registered with UNRWA is more than 4.3 million. The causes remain the subject of fundamental disagreement between Palestinians and Israelis. Jews make a religious and historical claim to the land, and Palestinians make historic, religious and ethnic claims to the land.\n\nThe All India Muslim League (AIML) was formed in Dhaka in 1906 by Muslims who were suspicious of the Hindu-majority Indian National Congress. They complained that Muslim members did not have the same rights as Hindu members. A number of different scenarios were proposed at various times.This was fuelled by the British policy of \"Divide and Rule\", which they tried to bring upon every political situation. Among the first to make the demand for a separate state was the writer/philosopher Allama Iqbal, who, in his presidential address to the 1930 convention of the Muslim League said that a separate nation for Muslims was essential in an otherwise Hindu-dominated subcontinent.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the British Raj in 1947, two new sovereign nations were formed—the Union of India and the Dominion of Pakistan. The subsequent partition of the former British India displaced up to 12.5 million people, with estimates of loss of life varying from several hundred thousand to a million. India emerged as a secular nation with a Hindu majority, while Pakistan was established as an Islamic republic with Muslim majority population.\n\nThe Abyssinian–Adal war was a military conflict between the Abyssinians and the Adal Sultanate from 1529 until 1559. The Imam Ahmad ibn Ibrahim al-Ghazi (nicknamed \"Gurey\" in Somali and \"Gragn\" in Amharic (ግራኝ \"Graññ\"), both meaning \"the left-handed\") came close to extinguishing the ancient realm of Abyssinia, and forcibly converting all of its surviving subjects to Islam; the intervention of the European Cristóvão da Gama, son of the famous navigator Vasco da Gama, attempted to help to prevent this outcome but was killed by al-Ghazi. However, both polities exhausted their resources and manpower in this conflict, allowing the northward migration of the Oromo into their present homelands to the north and west of Addis Ababa. Many historians trace the origins of hostility between Somalia and Ethiopia to this war. Some historians also argue that this conflict proved, through their use on both sides, the value of firearms such as the matchlock musket, cannons, and the arquebus over traditional weapons.\n\nInter-ethnic conflict in Nigeria has generally had a religious element. Riots against Igbo in 1953 and in the 1960s in the north were said to have been sparked by religious conflict. The riots against Igbo in the north in 1966 were said to have been inspired by radio reports of mistreatment of Muslims in the south. A military coup d'état led by lower and middle-ranking officers, some of them Igbo, overthrew the NPC-NCNC dominated government. Prime Minister Balewa along with other northern and western government officials were assassinated during the coup. The coup was considered an Igbo plot to overthrow the northern dominated government. A counter-coup was launched by mostly northern troops. Between June and July there was a mass exodus of Ibo from the north and west. Over 1.3 million Ibo fled the neighboring regions in order to escape persecution as anti-Ibo riots increased. The aftermath of the anti-Ibo riots led many to believe that security could only be gained by separating from the North.\n\nIn the 1980s, serious outbreaks between Christians and Muslims occurred in Kafanchan in southern Kaduna State in a border area between the two religions.\n\nThe 2010 Jos riots saw clashes between Muslim herders against Christian farmers near the volatile city of Jos, resulting in hundreds of casualties. Officials estimated that 500 people were massacred in night-time raids by rampaging Muslim gangs.\n\nDuring the rule of the Catholic Ngo Dinh Diem in South Vietnam, the discrimination against the majority Buddhist population generated the growth of Buddhist institutions as they sought to participate in national politics and gain better treatment. The Buddhist Uprising of 1966 was a period of civil and military unrest in South Vietnam, largely focused in the I Corps area in the north of the country in central Vietnam.\n\nIn a country where the Buddhist majority was estimated to be between 70 and 90 percent, Diem ruled with a strong religious bias. As a member of the Catholic Vietnamese minority, he pursued pro-Catholic policies that antagonized many Buddhists.\n\nThe Dungan revolt (1862–1877) and Panthay Rebellion (1856–1873) by the Hui were also set off by racial antagonism and class warfare, rather than the mistaken assumption that it was all due to Islam that the rebellions broke out. During the Dungan revolt fighting broke out between Uyghurs and Hui.\n\nIn 1936, after Sheng Shicai expelled 20,000 Kazakhs from Xinjiang to Qinghai, the Hui led by General Ma Bufang massacred their fellow Muslims, the Kazakhs, until there were only 135 of them left.\n\nTensions with Uyghurs and Hui arose because Qing and Republican Chinese authorities used Hui troops and officials to dominate the Uyghurs and crush Uyghur revolts. Xinjiang's Hui population increased by over 520 percent between 1940 and 1982, an average annual growth rate of 4.4 percent, while the Uyghur population only grew by 1.7 percent. This dramatic increase in the Hui population led inevitably to significant tensions between the Hui and Uyghur Muslim populations. Some old Uyghurs in Kashgar remember that the Hui army at the Battle of Kashgar (1934) massacred 2,000 to 8,000 Uyghurs, which caused tension as more Hui moved into Kashgar from other parts of China. Some Hui criticize Uyghur separatism, and generally do not want to get involved in conflicts in other countries over Islam for fear of being perceived as radical. Hui and Uyghur live apart from each other, praying separately and attending different mosques.\n\nThere is no consensus among scholars on what triggered the Lebanese Civil War. However, the militarization of the Palestinian refugee population, with the arrival of the PLO guerrilla forces did spark an arms race amongst the different Lebanese political factions. However the conflict played out along three religious lines, Sunni Muslim, Christian Lebanese and Shiite Muslim, Druze are considered among Shiite Muslims.\n\nIt has been argued that the antecedents of the war can be traced back to the conflicts and political compromises reached after the end of Lebanon's administration by the Ottoman Empire. The Cold War had a powerful disintegrative effect on Lebanon, which was closely linked to the polarization that preceded the 1958 political crisis. During the 1948 Arab–Israeli War an exodus of Palestinian refugees who fled the fighting or were expelled from their homes, arrived in Lebanon. Palestinians came to play a very important role in future Lebanese civil conflicts, whilst the establishment of Israel radically changed the local environment in which Lebanon found itself.\n\nLebanon was promised independence and on 22 November 1943 it was achieved. Free French troops, who had invaded Lebanon in 1941 to rid Beirut of the Vichy French forces, left the country in 1946. The Christians assumed power over the country and economy. A confessional parliament was created, where Muslims and Christians were given quotas of seats in parliament. As well, the President was to be a Christian, the Prime Minister a Sunni Muslim and the Speaker of Parliament a Shia Muslim.\n\nIn March 1991, parliament passed an amnesty law that pardoned all political crimes prior to its enactment. The amnesty was not extended to crimes perpetrated against foreign diplomats or certain crimes referred by the cabinet to the Higher Judicial Council. In May 1991, the militias (with the important exception of Hezbollah) were dissolved, and the Lebanese Armed Forces began to slowly rebuild themselves as Lebanon's only major non-sectarian institution.\n\nSome violence still occurred. In late December 1991 a car bomb (estimated to carry 220 pounds of TNT) exploded in the Muslim neighborhood of Basta. At least thirty people were killed, and 120 wounded, including former Prime Minister Shafik Wazzan, who was riding in a bulletproof car.\n\nThe Croatian War (1991–95) and Bosnian War (1992–95), have been viewed of as religious wars between the Orthodox, Catholic and Muslim populations of former Yugoslavia, that is, Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks. Traditional religious symbols were used during the wars. Notably, foreign Muslim volunteers came to Bosnia to wage \"jihad\" (\"jihad\" doesn’t mean \"holy war\", it means \"struggle\"), and were thus known as \"Bosnian mujahideen\".\n\nThe Second Sudanese Civil War from 1983 to 2005 have describe the conflict as an ethnoreligious one where the Muslim central government's pursuits to impose sharia law on non-Muslim southerners led to violence, and eventually to the civil war. The war resulted in the independence of South Sudan six years after the war ended. Sudan is Muslim and South Sudan is Christian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1533775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533775", "title": "Sanatan Dharma Maha Sabha", "text": "Sanatan Dharma Maha Sabha\n\nThe Sanatan Dharma Maha Sabha is the major Sanātanī Hindu (Orthodox Hindu) organisation in Trinidad and Tobago. It operates 150 mandirs, over 50 schools, and has it very own radio station, Radio Jaagriti 102.7 FM, and TV channel, TV Jaagriti Trinidad and Tobago. It was formed in 1952 when Bhadase Maraj engineered the merger of the \"Satanan Dharma Association\" and the \"Sanatan Dharma Board of Control\". An affiliated group, the Pundits' Parishad, has 200 affiliated pundits. The organisation's headquarters are located in St. Augustine.\n\nThe President General of the Maha Sabha is Pt. Utham Maharaj and the Secretary General is Satnarayan Maharaj, son-in-law of the founder, Bhadase Maraj.\n\nIn 1881, a Sanatan Dharma Association was founded in Trinidad and Tobago in an attempt to consolidate Hindus and lobby on their behalf. This Association, however, was not known for any significant advances in Hindu organizational development. Other groups existed by the 1920s including the Trinidad Hindu Maha Sabha, San Feranado Hindu Sabha, and the Sanatan Dharma Prabartakh Sabha. But these, too, were not especially dynamic in shaping the course of Hindu history. The most significant advances in Hindu organizational development of these Sabhas came as a response to the Arya Samaj and its missionaries.\n\nThe controversies stirred by the Arya Samaj spokesmen acted as a kind of catalyst for the leaders of the Sanatan Dharma community to make greater strides towards effective organization.The Sanatan Dharma Association was incorporated by an act of Legislature in 1932. A conservative group of Hindus led by Pt. Sahadeo Tiwari, established a rival organization, the Sanatan Dharma Board of Control which was also incorporated in 1932. Each of these served to represent the interests of the Hindu community with regard to social action or issues surrounding the orthodoxy; they also served to liaise with colonial or parliamentary authorities. In 1935, in a move to demonstrate greater legitimacy, the Board became formally affiliated with the Sanatan Dharma Pratindhi Sabha based in Lahore, British India (present day Pakistan). Pundits and laymen throughout the island became affiliated with one or the other of the two national Hindu bodies. The Sanatan Dharma Board of Control, for example had branches in 32 villages by the late 1930s.\n\nThe greatest development in the Hindu communal activity in Trinidad and Tobago began in 1952 when under the guidance and direction of powerful Pt. Goberdhan JP of Siparia Old Road in southern Trinidad, British Trinidad and Tobago (who acted as a representative of the Governor General of Trinidad and Tobago at difficult times) Bhadase Maraj united the Sanatan Dharma Association and the Sanatan Dharma Board of Control. In that year Maraj, a self-made millionaire and sugar union leader, merged the two Sanātanī Hindu bodies, to create a much more powerful pressure group and public organization. The new organization, the Sanatan Dharma Maha Sabha, was incorporated in 1952. The Sanatan Dharma Maha Sabha’s parishad, or council of pundits worked towards a complete coordination of temples activities and the standardization of ritual procedure. Relatively few structured, permanent religious groups existed in Trinidad's Indian villages until the advent of the Maha Sabha school building programme. Many mandirs were constructed or affiliated in addition. In order to ensure uniform teaching and practices, the Maha Sabha published literature to be used at all schools and temples.\n\nYet foremost on the new organization agenda was education, which its members saw as the key to promoting Hindu unity in all parts of the country, to promulgating the faith among future generations Hindus, and to provide Indians with greater opportunities for social advancement. Between 1952 and 1956 the Maha Sabha built no less than 31 schools all over the island. Today the Maha Sabha operates 42 schools in Trinidad and Tobago\n], over 150 mandirs, and affiliated over 200 pundits.\n\nUnder the present Secretary General, Satnarayan Maharaj, the Maha Sabha has modernized all 42 schools and built 5 secondary schools as well as 12 early childhood educational centers. Maharaj was instrumental in the creation of the Indian Arrival Day holiday and annual celebrations. The Maha Sabha introduced a Children’s Cultural Festival Baal Vikaas Vihar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2148130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2148130", "title": "See of Tyre", "text": "See of Tyre\n\nThe see of Tyre was one of the most ancient dioceses in Christianity. The existence of a Christian community there already in the time of Saint Paul is mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles. Seated at Tyre, which was the capital of the Roman province of Phoenicia Prima, the bishopric was a metropolitan see. Its position was briefly challenged by the see of Berytus in the mid-5th century; but after 480/1 the metropolitan of Tyre established himself as the first (\"protothronos\") of all the metropolitans subject to the Patriarch of Antioch.\n\nIn the summer of 2017 a Greek inscription, five-metres long, naming Irenaeus as bishop of Tyre, was found west of the Sea of Galilee, in an excavation co-directed by historian Jacob Ashkenazi and archaeologist Mordechai Aviam. Since the inscription provides the date of the church’s completion as 445, it gives credence to a date as early as 444 CE for his ordination (Source: The Times of Israel, article '1,600-year-old church mosaic puzzles out key role of women in early Christianity' by Amanda Borschel-Dan, 7 November 2017, published 11:13 am https://www.timesofisrael.com/who-run-the-world-sometimes-women-1600-year-old-church-mosaic-shows/) The Times of Israel article contains a photograph of the inscription which would be an excellent illustration for this page.\n\nCommunion with the see of Rome was broken following the East–West Schism. When the Crusaders conquered Tyre, the Eastern Orthodox archbishop withdrew to Constantinople and a Latin named Eudes was appointed archbishop, but he died in 1124, the same year in which the Crusaders succeeded in taking the city.\n\nThe most notable of the Latin archbishops of Tyre of this time was the historian William of Tyre, who served from 1175 to 1185.\n\nTyre then belonged to the Kingdom of Jerusalem, not the more northerly Principality of Antioch. On the basis of the Pentarchy system, the Latin Patriarch of Antioch claimed the right to appoint the archbishop, which was exercised by the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem. Pope Innocent II adjudicated the dispute in favour of Jerusalem on the basis of a decree of Pope Paschal II granting King Baldwin the right to make all sees conquered from the Muslims subject to Jerusalem. It was the practice to choose as Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem the archbishop of Tyre or of Caesarea in Palaestina.\n\nIn 1187, after Saladin's invasion, Tyre was the only city remaining in Crusader hands and was at one point considered as the new capital of the kingdom. It lost that appellation to Acre, but it remained the site of the coronation of the king, and the archbishop was given the responsibility of officiating at the coronation.\n\nStarting with Sultan Baibars in 1254, the Islamic chieftains declared jihad on the Crusaders and slowly started exterminating the remaining Christian communities on the coastlands. The last archbishops, John and Bonacourt, devoted their rule to forestalling the Mamluk conquest, attempting to obtain the freedom of enslaved Christians, caring for refugees, and preparing for the coming assault. After a long siege, the city was captured by the Mamluks in 1291. The city was mostly evacuated by the time the Mamluks arrived, but the remaining population, including the archbishop, were killed or enslaved. The churches were torn down, and the archdiocese became titular; only in the 18th and 19th centuries was a new archbishop appointed to protect the newly restored pilgrim routes. Due to the ongoing conflict and dislocations in modern Lebanon and the decline of influence of Christianity there, the see has remained vacant again since 1984.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1628681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1628681", "title": "Shailendra dynasty", "text": "Shailendra dynasty\n\nThe Shailendra dynasty ( derived from Sanskrit combined words \"Śaila\" and \"Indra\", meaning \"King of the Mountain\", also spelled Sailendra, Syailendra or Selendra) was the name of a notable Indianised dynasty that emerged in 8th-century Java, whose reign signified a cultural renaissance in the region. The Shailendras were active promoters of Mahayana Buddhism, and covered the Kedu Plain of Central Java with Buddhist monuments, one of which is the colossal stupa of Borobudur, now a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\n\nThe Shailendras are considered to have been a thalassocracy and ruled vast swathes of maritime Southeast Asia, however they also relied on agricultural pursuits, by way of intensive rice cultivation on the Kedu Plain of Central Java. The dynasty appeared to be the ruling family of both the Medang Kingdom of Central Java, for some period, and the Srivijaya Kingdom in Sumatra.\n\nThe inscriptions created by Shailendras use three languages; Old Malay, Old Javanese, and Sanskrit - written either in the Kawi alphabet, or pre-Nāgarī script. The use of Old Malay has sparked speculation of a Sumatran origin, or Srivijayan connection of this family. On the other hand, the use of Old Javanese suggests their firm political establishment on Java. The use of Sanskrit usually indicates the official nature, and/or religious significance, of the event described in any given inscription.\n\nThe Sojomerto inscription (c. 725) discovered in Batang Regency, Central Java, mentioned the name \"Dapunta Selendra\" and \"Selendranamah\". The name 'Selendra' was another spelling of Shailendra, suggested that Dapunta Selendra was the progenitor of Shailendra family in Central Java. The inscription is Shaivist in nature, which suggests that the family was probably initially Hindu Shaivist before converting to Mahayana Buddhism.\n\nThe earliest dated inscription in Indonesia in which clearly mentioned the dynastic name of ' as ' appears is the Kalasan inscription (778) of central Java, which mention its ruler Mahārāja dyāḥ Pañcapaṇa kariyāna Paṇaṃkaraṇa and commemorates the establishment of a Buddhist shrine, Candi Kalasan, dedicated for the goddess Tara.\n\nThe name also appears in several other inscriptions like the Kelurak inscription (782) and the Karangtengah inscription (824). Outside Indonesia, the name Shailendra is to be found in the Ligor inscription (775) on the Malay peninsula and Nalanda inscription (860) in India. It is possible that it was Paṇaṃkaraṇa that create the Chaiya, or Ligor inscription (775), and took control over Srivijayan realm in the Southern Thailand Malay Peninsula.\n\nAlthough the rise of the Shailendras occurred in Kedu Plain in the Javanese heartland, their origin has been the subject of discussion. Apart from Java itself; an earlier homeland in Sumatra, India or Cambodia has been suggested. The latest studies apparently favour a native origin of the dynasty. Despite their connections with Srivijaya in Sumatra and Thai-Malay Peninsula, the Shailendras were more likely of Javanese origin.\n\nAccording to Ramesh Chandra Majumdar, an Indian scholar, the Shailendra dynasty that established itself in the Indonesian archipleago originated from Kalinga in Eastern India. This opinion is also shared by Nilakanta Sastri and J. L. Moens. Moens further describes that the Shailendras originated in India and established themselves in Palembang before the arrival of Srivijaya's Dapunta Hyang Sri Jayanasa. In 683, the Shailendras moved to Java because of the pressure exerted by Dapunta Hyang and his troops.\n\nOther scholars hold that the expansion of Buddhist kingdom of Srivijaya was involved in the rise of the dynasty in Java. Supporters of this connection emphasize the shared Mahayana patronage; the intermarriages and the Ligor inscription. Also the fact that some of Shailendra's inscriptions were written in old Malay, which suggested Srivijaya or Sumatran connections. The name 'Selendra' was first mentioned in Sojomerto inscription (725) as \"Dapunta Selendra\". Dapunta Selendra is suggested as the ancestor of Shailendras. The title Dapunta is similar to those of Srivijayan King Dapunta Hyang Sri Jayanasa, and the inscription — although discovered in Central Java north coast — was written in old Malay, which suggested the Sumatran origin or Srivijayan connection to this family.\n\nAnother theory suggests that Shailendra was a native Javanese dynasty and the Sanjaya dynasty was actually a branch of the Shailendras since Sri Sanjaya and his offspring belong to the Shailendra family that were initially the Shaivist rulers of the Medang Kingdom. The association of Shailendra with Mahayana Buddhism began after the conversion of Panaraban or Panangkaran to Buddhism. This theory is based on the \"Carita Parahyangan\", which tells of the ailing King Sanjaya ordering his son, Rakai Panaraban or Panangkaran, to convert to Buddhism because their faith in Shiva was feared by the people in favor of the pacifist Buddhist faith. The conversion of Panangkaran to Buddhism also corresponds to the Raja Sankhara inscription, which tells of a king named Sankhara (identified as Panangkaran) converting to Buddhism because his Shaiva faith was feared by the people. Unfortunately, the Raja Sankhara inscription is now missing.\n\nIn 1934, the French scholar Coedes proposed a relation with the Funan kingdom in Cambodia. Coedes believed that the Funanese rulers used similar-sounding 'mountainlord' titles, but several Cambodia specialists have discounted this. They hold there is no historical evidence for such titles in the Funan period.\n\nThe Shailendra rulers maintained cordial relations, including marriage alliances with Srivijaya in Sumatra. For instance, Samaragrawira married Dewi Tara, a daughter of Srivijayan Maharaja Dharmasetu. The mutual alliance between the two kingdoms ensured that Srivijaya had no need to fear the emergence of a Javanese rival and that the Shailendra had access to the international market.\n\nKarangtengah inscription dated 824 mentioned about king Samaratungga. His daughter named Pramodhawardhani has inaugurated a \"Jinalaya\", a sacred buddhist sanctuary. The inscription also mentioned a sacred Buddhist building called \"Venuvana\" to place the cremated ashes of King Indra. The Tri Tepusan inscription dated 842 mentioned about the \"sima\" (tax free) lands awarded by Śrī Kahulunan (Pramodhawardhani, daughter of Samaratungga) to ensure the funding and maintenance of a \"Kamūlān\" called \"Bhūmisambhāra\". \"Kamūlān\" itself from the word \"mula\" which means 'the place of origin', a sacred building to honor the ancestors. These findings suggested that either the ancestors of the Shailendras were originated from Central Java, or as the sign that Shailendra have established their holds on Java. Casparis suggested that \"Bhūmi Sambhāra Bhudhāra\" which in Sanskrit means \"The mountain of combined virtues of the ten stages of Boddhisattvahood\", was the original name of Borobudur.\n\nThe received older version holds that the Shailendra dynasty existed next to the Sanjaya dynasty in Java. Much of the period was characterized by peaceful co-existence and cooperation but towards the middle of the 9th century relations had deteriorated. Around 852 the Sanjaya ruler Pikatan had defeated Balaputra, the offspring of the Shailendra monarch Samaratunga and princess Tara. This ended the Shailendra presence in Java and Balaputra retreated to the Srivijaya kingdom in Sumatra, where he became the paramount ruler.\n\nEarlier historians, such as N.J. Krom and Coedes, tend to equate Samaragrawira and Samaratungga as the same person. However, later historians such as Slamet Muljana equate Samaratungga with Rakai Garung, mentioned in Mantyasih inscription as fifth monarch of Mataram Kingdom. Which means Samaratungga was the successor of Samaragrawira, and Balaputradewa that is also Samaragrawira's son, is Samaratungga's younger brother and ruled in Suvarnadvipa (Sumatra), and he is not Samaratungga's son. This version holds Balaputra that reign in Sumatra challenged the Pikatan-Pramodhawardhani legitimation in Java, arguing that his niece and her husband has less rights to rule Java compared to his.\n\nAfter 824, there are no more references to the Shailendra house in the Javanese ephigraphic record. Around 860 the name re-appears in the Nalanda inscription in India. According to the text, the king Devapaladeva of Bengala (Pala Empire) had granted 'Balaputra, the king of Suvarna-dvipa' (Sumatra) the revenues of 5 villages to a Buddhist monastery near Bodh Gaya. Balaputra was styled a descendant from the Shailendra dynasty and grandson of the king of Java.\n\nFrom Sumatra, the Shailendras also maintained overseas relations with the Chola kingdom in Southern India, as shown by several south Indian inscriptions. An 11th-century inscription mentioned the grant of revenues to a local Buddhist sanctuary, built in 1005 by the king of the Srivijaya. In spite the relations were initially fairly cordial, hostilities had broken out in 1025. Rajendra Chola I the Emperor of the Chola dynasty conquered some territories of the Shailendra Dynasty in the 11th century. The devastation caused by Chola invasion of Srivijaya in 1025, marked the end of Shailendra family as the ruling dynasty in Sumatra. The last king of Shailendra dynasty — the Maharaja Sangrama Vijayatunggavarman — was imprisoned and taken as hostage. Nevertheless, amity was re-established between the two states, before the end of the 11th century. In 1090 a new charter was granted to the old Buddhist sanctuary, it is the last known inscription with a reference to the Shailendras. With the absence of legitimate successor, Shailendra dynasty seems ceased to rule. Other family within Srivijaya mandala took over the throne, a new Maharaja named Sri Deva according to Chinese source establishing new dynasty to rule Srivijaya. He sent an embassy to the court of China in 1028 CE.\n\nSri Kesari Warmadewa was said to be a Buddhist king of the Shailendra Dynasty, leading a military expedition, to establishing a Mahayana Buddhist government in Bali. In 914, he left a record of his endeavour in the Belanjong pillar in Sanur in Bali. According to this inscription Warmadewa dynasty was probably the branch of Shailendras that rule Bali.\n\nTraditionally, the Shailendra period was viewed to span from the 8th to the 9th century, confined only in Central Java, from the era of Panangkaran to Samaratungga. However the recent interpretation suggests the longer period of Shailendra family might existed, from mid 7th century (edict of Sojomerto inscription) to early 11th century (the fall of Shailendran dynasty of Srivijaya under Chola invasion). For certain period, Shailendras ruled both Central Java and Sumatra. Their alliance and intermarriage with Srivijayan ruling family resulted with the merging of two royal houses, with Shailendran finally emerge as the ruling family of both Srivijaya and Medang Mataram (Central Java).\n\nSome historians tried to reconstruct the order and list of Shailendra rulers, although there is some disagreement on the list. Boechari tried to reconstruct the early stage of Shailendra based on Sojomerto inscription, while other historians such as Slamet Muljana and Poerbatjaraka tried to reconstruct the list of Shailendran king in middle and later period with their connections to Sanjaya and Srivijaya, based on inscriptions and Carita Parahyangan manuscript. However, there is some confusion occurred, because the Shailendra seems to rule many kingdoms; Kalingga, Medang and later Srivijaya. As the result name of the same kings often overlapped and seens to rule these kingdoms simultaneously. The questionmark (?) signify doubt or speculation because of the scarcity of available valid sources.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6539362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6539362", "title": "Sikhism in the United States", "text": "Sikhism in the United States\n\nSikhism is a religion originating from South Asia (predominantly from the Punjab region of modern-day India and Pakistan) which was introduced into the United States during the 19th century. In 2007, there were estimated to be between 250,000 and 500,000 Sikhs living in the United States, with largest populations living on the East and West Coasts, together with additional populations in Detroit, Chicago, and Austin. The United States also has a number of non-Punjabi converts to Sikhism.\n\nSikh men are typically identifiable by their unshorn beards and turbans (head coverings), articles of their faith. Following the 9/11 terrorist attacks, and subsequent other terrorism related activities by Islamic groups, Sikhs have often been mistaken as Muslims or Arabs, and have been subject to several hate crimes, including murders. Sikh temples have also been targets of violence due to being mistaken for mosques. A shooting at a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin garnered national and international attention, with then President Obama ordering flags to be half-staffed at all federal buildings.\n\nSikhs have served in the United States military at least as far back as the early 20th century, when one Bhagat Singh Thind, who though not a citizen joined the United States Army and served in World War I. Thind requested citizenship at the end of the war, being granted and revoked twice, before finally being naturalized in 1936. Far larger numbers of Sikhs served in World War II, and all American wars following.\n\nThe ability of observant Sikhs to serve in the American military has, since 1985, been compromised by a discontinuation of exemptions to uniform standards which previously allowed Sikhs to maintain their religiously-mandated beards and turbans while in uniform. As of 2010, a Sikh doctor, Kamaljeet S. Kalsi, and dentist, Tejdeep Singh Rattan, are the only Sikh officers to be permitted to serve in uniform with beard and turban. In addition, Simranpreet Lamba was permitted to enlist, with exemption to wear his turban and beard, in 2010 due to his knowledge of Punjabi and Hindi.\n\nIn 2016, the New York City Police Department (NYPD) began to allow turbans, subject to standards compatible with unimpeded performance of duty.\n\nMany Sikhs started life in America working in lumber mills, mines, and as farm laborers, with many eventually becoming landowners. Many early Sikh immigrants were restaurant owners. In 1956, Dalip Singh Saund became the first Asian Indian-born person to be elected to the United States House of Representatives.\n\n\nThe most concentrated Sikh community in the United States has traditionally resided in agricultural Yuba City, California, although this agglomeration has since dispersed as Sikhs have gained a greater educational foundation, enabling them to have now spread out to metropolitan areas all over the United States. The largest and most rapidly growing Sikh community in New York City is based in the Richmond Hill area of the borough of Queens; the majority consist of more recent emigres from India and Canada. Conversely, in the Sikh Foundation of Virginia, most members comprise both recent and more established Jatt Sikhs, Ramgarhia Sikhs, and Sikh Rajputs. Most Sikhs of Española, New Mexico are non-Punjabi converts to Sikhism.\n\nSikhs have been a part of the American populace for more than 130 years. Near the end of the 19th century, the state of Punjab of British India was hit hard by British practices of mercantilism. Many Sikhs emigrated to the United States and began arriving to work on farms in California. They traveled via Hong Kong to Angel Island, California, the western counterpart to Ellis Island in New York Harbor.\n\nSome Sikhs worked in lumber mills of Oregon or in railroad construction and for some Sikhs it was on a railway line, which allowed other Sikhs who were working as migrant laborers to come into the town on festival days.\n\nA big effect on Sikh migration to the western states occurred during World War I and World War II, where Sikhs were recruited by the British Army to serve for them. Sikhs fought bravely during these wars and began to live in England after their serving period. Among the Sikhs who already lived in America prior to the wars, many Sikhs joined them, mainly during World Wars I and II. Among those who served in the US military include Bhagat Singh Thind in World War I.\n\nThe first Sikh gurdwara in the US was the Gurdwara Sahib Stockton, in Stockton, California; the Gurdwara was created in 1912.\n\nAs a result of the September 11 attacks, some Sikh Americans have become subject to discrimination, often from individuals who mistakenly believe that they are Arab or Muslim.\n\nBalbir Singh Sodhi, a gas station owner, was killed on September 15, 2001 due to being mistaken for a Muslim. In a 2011 report to the United States Senate, the Southern Poverty Law Center reported several assaults and incidents of arson at Sikh temples after September 11. All were labeled as hate crimes that resulted from the perpetrators' misconceptions that their targets were Muslim. In August 2012, a Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin was the site of a shooting, leading to 6 Sikh individuals being killed. On May 7, 2013, an elderly Sikh man was attacked with an iron bar in Fresno, California in a possible hate crime. On September 21, 2013, Prabhjot Singh, a Sikh professor was attacked in Harlem, New York by a group of 20-30 men who branded him as \"Osama\" and Terrorist\".\n\nA 2007 survey of Sikh students by the Sikh Coalition found that three out of four male students interviewed \"had been teased or harassed on account of their religious identity.\" In 2014, the Sikh Coalition released a national report on the bullying of Sikh children in American schools. The report found that 55.8% of Sikh students surveyed in Indianapolis reported being bullied, while 54.5% of Sikh students surveyed in Fresno, California reported being bullied. According to the surveys, Sikh students wearing turbans are twice as likely to be bullied as the average American child.\n\nIn the 1960s, due to increased Indian immigration and rising interest in Indian spirituality in the American counterculture, a number of non-Punjabi Americans began to enter Sikhism. Prominent in this trend was Yogi Bhajan, leader of the Sikh-related movement 3HO (Healthy, Happy, Holy Organization), whose Los Angeles temple was the first to initiate non-Punjabi Americans into Sikhism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19429463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19429463", "title": "Temple of Maharraqa", "text": "Temple of Maharraqa\n\nAl-Maharraqa (Arabic: المحرقة, DMG: Al-Maḥarraqa, Greek: Hierasykaminos) is a place in Lower Nubia, which was approximately south of Aswan on the southern border of the Roman empire. Only a few years after the Roman conquest of Egypt in 30 BC, the Kushites from the kingdom of Meroë launched a raid on the First Cataract region of Egypt in 23 BC. The Roman prefect of Egypt, Petronius, retaliated and defeated the invading Meroitic army. He then proceeded to station a Roman garrison of 400 troops at the southern outpost of Qasr Ibrim. After some negotiations, a permanent frontier between Meroë and Roman Egypt was established at Maharraqa. Thus, Maharraqa formed the extreme southern frontier of Roman Egypt.\n\nThe Temple of Maharraqa was originally situated here before it was subsequently relocated in the mid-1960s due to the Aswan Dam project. It was dedicated to the ancient Egyptian gods Isis and Serapis. This Roman-built Egyptian temple cannot be securely attributed to any Roman emperor's reign since it was never fully completed nor inscribed. However, since it is known that temple building declined in Nubia after the rule of Augustus, the temple of Maharraqa might be datable to his reign. The only part of the structure that was finished \"was a court measuring 13.56 X 15.69 m, which was surrounded on three sides by columns.\" The actual temple premises containing the sanctuary was never actually built. The temple, as well, lacks a formal pylon. \n\nThe Temple of Maharraqa features an architectural curiosity with a winding spiral staircase at a corner of the court, which led to its roof. This is the only Egyptian temple in Nubia with a spiral staircase.\n\nSince its former location was threatened by flooding from the Nile due to the construction of the Aswan dam, this small temple was dismantled in 1961 by the Egyptian Antiquities Service. It was subsequently rebuilt along with the Temple of Dakka in 1966 at the New Wadi es-Sebua site which lies only west of the original Wadi es-Sebua location. As Christine Hobson notes:\n\n\"A little to the north of Amada now stand the temples of Wadi es Sebua (built by Ramesses II), Dakka and Maharraka.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "739291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=739291", "title": "Tenskwatawa", "text": "Tenskwatawa\n\nTenskwatawa (; also called Tenskatawa, Tenskwatawah, Tensquatawa or Lalawethika) (January 1775 – November 1836) was a Native American religious and political leader of the Shawnee tribe, known as the Prophet or the Shawnee Prophet. He was a younger brother of Tecumseh, a leader of the Shawnee. In his early years Tenskwatawa was given the name Lalawithika (\"He Makes a Loud Noise\", \"The Noise Maker\", or \"The Rattle\"), of the Red Stick Creek Indians. He was once the town drunk, but about 1805, after a stupor so deep that he was believed dead, he awoke and said he had visited the Master of Breath, and been shown a heaven with game and honey for those who lived virtuously and traditionally. He was a métis (mestizo), but he transformed himself into an influential spiritual leader. Tenskwatawa denounced the Euro-American settlers, calling them offspring of the Evil Spirit, and led a purification movement that promoted unity among Native Americans, rejected acculturation to the settler way of life, including alcohol, and encouraged his followers to pursue traditional ways. He was called a Prophet.\n\nIn the early 1800s Tenskwatawa formed a community with his followers near Greenville in western Ohio, and in 1808 he and his brother, Tecumseh, established a village that the Americans called Prophetstown north of present-day Lafayette, Indiana. At Prophetstown the brothers' pan-Indian resistance movement increased to include thousands of followers, with Tenskwatawa providing the spiritual foundation. Together, they mobilized the Native Americans in what was then the western United States, from the Appalachian Mountains to the Mississippi, to fight the whites and remain resolute in their rejection of United States authority and acculturation.\n\nOn November 7, 1811, while Tecumseh was away, Tenskwatawa ordered the pre-dawn attack on a U.S. military force encamped near Prophetstown that initiated the Battle of Tippecanoe. The Indians retreated after a two-hour engagement and abandoned Prophetstown, which the military burned to the ground. The battle did not end the Indians' resistance against the United States, but the Prophet lost his influence, became an outcast, and moved to Canada during the War of 1812. After Tecumseh was killed at the Battle of the Thames in 1813, the Native American resistance movement did not recover and was eventually defeated. Tenskwatawa remained as an exile in Canada for nearly a decade. He returned to the United States in 1824 to assist the U.S. government with the Shawnee removal to reservation land in present-day Kansas. The aging Prophet arrived at the Shawnee reservation in 1828 and faded into obscurity. Tenskwatawa died at what is known as the Argentine district of present-day Kansas City, Kansas, in 1836.\n\nLalawethika (\"He Makes a Loud Noise\" or \"Noise Maker\"), who as an adult changed his name to Tenskwatawa (\"Open Door\" or \"One With Open Mouth\"), was part of a set of triplet brothers born in early 1775 to Puckeshinwa and Methoataske in a Shawnee village along the Mad River in western Ohio. One of the triplets died within the first year of his birth, but Tenskwatawa and his surviving triplet, Kumskaukau, were members of a family that included at least eight children (three daughters and five sons). Lalawethika's early years showed no evidence of the powerful spiritual leader he would become as an adult. Instead, his sad and isolated youth was marked by numerous failures and alcoholism.\n\nTenskwatawa's father, Puckenshinwa (\"Something That Falls\"), was a leader of the Kispokotha division of the Shawnee tribe. He was killed by a British soldier in the Battle of Point Pleasant before Tenskwatawa was born. His mother, Methoataske (or Methoataaskee, meaning \"[One who] Lays Eggs in the Sand\"), is believed to be either Muscogee Creek, Cherokee, or Shawnee, possibly of Pekowi division and the Turtle Clan. Methoataske, who was frightened by the American Revolution and deeply saddened by the death of Puckenshinwa, may have gone to live with her Creek relatives and then moved west with the Kispokothas in 1779, leaving Tenskwatawa and his siblings in the care of their older sister, Tecumpeas, who was married.\n\nTenskwatawa, who was not as successful or brave as his brothers, was a failure \"at almost everything he attempted\" during his youth. When Chiksika, his oldest brother and a leading warrior, took his brothers out to hunt and fight in small battles, Tenskwatawa stayed behind because he lacked competence as a skilled hunter and warrior. Tenskwatawa was never able to distinguish himself as a hunter or fighter as Tecumseh, another of his older brothers, had done. Tecumseh, who was seven years older, was an especially gifted athlete who became the favorite of most of the tribe. In contrast, Tenskwatawa was isolated, unpopular, and depressed by his lack of success. He began drinking alcohol, which further lowered his self-esteem and increased his problems. He also blinded himself in his right eye with his own arrow when he was younger. Lonely and insecure, Tenskwatawa attempted to make up for his deficiencies by boasting and making up stories about how talented and important he was. His depression and alcoholism worsened as he grew older, making him unable to provide for his wife and several children.\n\nIn 1794, nineteen-year-old Tenskwatawa was present at the Battle of Fallen Timbers with two of his brothers, Tecumseh and Sauwauseekau, but he did not distinguish himself as a warrior. Instead, Tenskwatawa viewed the battle as a chance to re-insert himself into tribal society. In his late twenties, he decided to become a medicine man and apprenticed with a tribal healer, Penagashea (\"Changing Feathers\"). However, when Tenskawatawa was unable to save his people after they fell seriously ill, probably with influenza, he became humiliated and even more depressed. By the early 1800s, Tenskawatawa had developed a reputation as a notorious drunk among the Shawnee living along the White River.\n\nBeginning in 1805 Lalawethika had a series of religious visions that transformed his life, caused him to change his name to Tenskwatawa (meaning \"Open Door\"), and led him to reject his old ways. He experienced his first vision in May 1805, when he fell into unconsciousness during one of his alcoholic stupors and was thought to be dead. Unexpectedly reviving as his body was being prepared for burial, he recounted a powerful vision of two different worlds, one filled with ample blessings for the virtuous ones who lived as the Master of Life intended, while the other world was filled with pain, hardship, and terror for those who refused to follow traditional tribal ways. Tenskwatawa became known as \"The Prophet,\" began preaching and gathered a growing number of followers. He soon emerged as a powerful and influential spiritual leader. More visions followed in succeeding months, including revelations that the European invaders from the east were \"the children of the Evil Spirit.\".\n\nThe Prophet's developing purification movement caused him to urge his followers to reject European habits, such as consumption of alcohol, and to return to their traditional ways. He wanted his people to reject the white man's customs by forbidding marriages between Indians and whites, as well as the use of Euro-American foods, clothing, and manufactured goods. Tenskwatawa also encouraged his people to follow traditional gender roles (women as farmers, men as hunters and warriors). Tenskwatawa proved to be harsh, even brutal, in his treatment of those who opposed him and his teachings. He accused his detractors, and anyone who associated with settlers, of witchcraft, including Indians who had converted to Christianity. For Tenskwatawa, Indian witches remained the most active agents of the evil spirits on earth, and he sought to identify and destroy them.\n\nThe changes to Tenskawatawa's life, along with his rise as a powerful spiritual leader in the early 1800s, coincided with other situations that threatened Native Americans' traditional way of life and caused rising tensions between natives and settlers. These included significant liquor consumption among natives, ever-increasing land cession treaties that promised annuities to natives in exchange for giving up their lands to the U.S. government, and the steady encroachment of white settlers in areas around Indian-held treaty land.\n\nIn 1805 Tenskwatawa, who evolved into an effective speaker and charismatic leader of his religious movement, formed a new community with his followers along the White River, near the present site of Greenville in western Ohio. The Indian village's population rapidly increased after Tenskwatawa accurately predicted a solar eclipse in 1806. The prediction humiliated William Henry Harrison, the governor of the Indiana Territory. Previously, Harrison had publicly derided Tenskwatawa as a fraud to the tribal leaders, but many tribal members considered the accuracy of Tenskwatawa's prediction as proof of his power.\n\nThe Prophet detested the leaders of the United States government, including President Thomas Jefferson and Harrison, the Indiana territorial governor. Tenskwatawa also opposed some tribal leaders, such as Little Turtle, and their representatives because he felt that they had agreed to the demands of the government. When some of the tribal chiefs tried to promote compromise and conciliation with the United States, Tenskwatawa, proclaiming his obedience to the Great Spirit, lashed out against the pro-U.S. sympathizers and castigated them as wicked traitors.\n\nWhile the Prophet continued to preach unity among his people, urging them to resist the government and the settlers' way of life, his brother, Tecumseh, began to gather the tribes at Greenville to establish a pan-Indian resistance movement. Officials in Ohio became concerned about the increasing numbers of the Prophet's followers. As the settlers became more hostile and planned to take action, Tenskwatawa was finding it increasingly difficult to feed his expanding village. Although there was opposition from some tribal leaders such as Little Turtle, Tenskwatawa decided to move farther west and establish a village in a more remote location to further distance his followers from the settlers.\n\nIn 1808 Tenskwatawa and Tecumseh founded a new village along the Tippecanoe River, north of present-day Lafayette, Indiana. The settlers called the Indian village Prophetstown, after the Shawnee spiritual leader. Prophetstown soon expanded into a large, multi-tribal community of the Prophet's followers that became a \"powerful Indian city-state\" for his spiritual movement. Willig (1997) argues that Prophetstown became the largest Native American community in the Great Lakes region, and also served as a major center of Indian culture, a temporary barrier to the encroaching settlers' westward movement, and a base to expel the whites and their culture from the territory. Located near the juncture of two rivers (the Wabash and Tippecanoe Rivers, Prophetstown gained significance as a central point in the political and military alliance that was forming around Tenskwatawa's brother Tecumseh, as well as the spiritual hub of the purification movement that the Prophet established to preserve tribal culture.\n\nUnder the leadership of Tenskwatawa and Tecumseh, the village attracted thousands of Algonquin-speaking Indians. Although the village endured hardships, such as food shortages, epidemics, and tribal disagreements, Prophetstown became an intertribal, religious stronghold within the Indiana Territory for three thousand Native Americans. An estimated fourteen different tribal groups comprised the confederation at Prophetstown, but the majority of its inhabitants came from Shawnee, Delaware, and Potawatomi tribes. The growing community also caused settlers in the area to fear that Tecumseh was forming an army of warriors to destroy their settlements.\n\nOne effect of the increasing pan-Indian alliance was steady pressure from Harrison and the U.S. government to establish land-cession treaties, including a pivotal one made in 1809. Under the terms of the Treaty of Fort Wayne, the tribes in the Wabash River area ceded an estimated 2.5 to 3 million acres of land to the U.S. government. While warriors continued to congregate at Prophetstown, Tenskwatawa and Tecumseh, who adamantly wanted to retain their independence from the United States, denounced the treaty. They became openly hostile to those who had signed it, including other tribal leaders, and began discussions of a possible alliance with the British.\n\nAlthough historians have disagreed over whether Tecumseh or Tenskwatawa was the primary leader of the pan-Indian community that grew up around Prophetstown, Tenskwatawa remained its spiritual leader; however, his preaching grew more militant and increasingly political from 1808 to 1811. Some of Prophetstown's inhabitants became nervous about the rising tension between settlers and natives and left the village, but Tecumseh and Tenskwatawa continued to recruit \nyoung warriors to join their movement. By 1811, white settlers in the region, Harrison, and the Indiana territorial government had become concerned about the large number of Indians gathering at Prophetstown. After ongoing negotiations between Harrison and Tecumseh proved unproductive in 1811, Harrison decided to strike first and began to assemble his military forces.\n\nIn the fall of 1811, when Tecumseh journeyed south to meet with representatives of other tribes in hopes of building a larger alliance, Tenskwatawa was left in command at Prophetstown. Before Tecumseh's departure, the two brothers discussed possible responses to U.S. military action and agreed that Tenskwatawa would try to avoid any confrontation during Tecumseh's absence. However, Tenskwatawa reconsidered the decision after Tecumseh's departure and prepared their warriors to fight the settlers if they approached Prophetstown. In the meantime, Harrison and his men began their march north from Vincennes toward Prophetstown and constructed a new fort (Fort Harrison) on Indian treaty land at the site of present-day Terre Haute, Indiana, to serve as a staging area for their military forces. As Harrison's army marched toward Prophetstown, Tenskwatawa decided to stand firm and take action.\n\nOn November 6, 1811, while Tecumseh was still in the South, a United States military force of an estimated 1,000 men under Harrison's command approached the village. Hoping to delay a confrontation until additional warriors arrived, Tenskwatawa requested a meeting with Harrison, who agreed to negotiate. With the meeting set for the following day, Harrison and his men set up camp about a mile from Prophetstown.\n\nAlthough they were outnumbered and had little ammunition, Tenskwatawa's smaller force of 600 to 700 men were the first to attack before dawn on November 7. During the evening, Tenskwatawa consulted with the spirits and decided that sending a party to murder Harrison in his tent was the best way to avoid a battle. He assured the warriors that he would cast spells that would make them immune to their bullets and any other harm, as well as confuse Harrison's army so they would not resist. The warriors moved out and began to surround Harrison's army, looking for a way to enter the camp undetected. After a two-hour engagement that became known as the Battle of Tippecanoe, Tenskwatawa's forces retreated from the field and abandoned Prophetstown to avoid capture. On November 8, Harrison's army burned the village to the ground. Nearly one-fifth of Harrison's forces either died or were wounded in battle (188 casualties; 63 of them fatalities). Harrison claimed hundreds of Indian casualties; however, the actual number fell between thirty and fifty, with an additional seventy to eighty wounded. Tenskwatawa, who did not take part in the action on the field, remained out of range of U.S. bullets.\n\nThe battle did not end the Indians' resistance to the United States, but their retreat caused The Prophet, who proved to be a poor military leader, to lose his influence. Some of the Indians wanted to kill him for losing, but he survived; others sought revenge by raiding area farms and travelers. When Tecumseh returned to the Indiana Territory, he resumed his role as the Indian confederation's military leader, but the loss at Prophetstown ended his efforts to establish a stronger Indian alliance. Tenskwatawa became an outcast, and some of his followers returned to rebuild Prophetstown in July 1812, but settler militia forces eventually forced them away. The Prophet moved to Canada and became one of Tecumseh's subordinates during the War of 1812.\n\nThe end of the Indians' military resistance to the U.S. occurred in Canada, where Tecumseh and his warriors participated in the defense of the Canadian colonies. Tecumseh fought and died at the Battle of the Thames, in October 1813. Tenskwatawa, who observed the battle from a position behind the British line, fled on horseback after the initial charge from the American forces. He remained in exile in Canada and did not return to the United States until 1824.\n\nAfter Tecumseh's death in 1813, Tenskwatawa retained a small group of followers, but had no significant leadership position among the American Indians in the subsequent decade. In 1824, at the request of Lewis Cass, the governor of Michigan Territory, the aging Prophet returned to the United States from Canada to assist the federal government with its plans for the Shawnee removal west of the Mississippi River. Tenskwatawa hoped his involvement would allow him to regain some influence as a leader among the Shawnee.\n\nIn 1826 Tenskwatawa traveled through Vincennes, Indiana, with a group of 500 Shawnee from reservation land at Wapaghkonetta, Ohio, and headed west across the Mississippi and Kansas Rivers to the Shawnee reservation in present-day Kansas. Tenskwatawa, who arrived in Kansas on May 14, 1828, established a village called Prophetstown on reservation land in the Argentine\ndistrict of present-day Kansas City, Kansas.\n\nIn his final years, as his influence among the Shawnee declined, Tenskwatawa isolated himself from the majority of the tribe. A few years before his death, Tenskwatawa agreed to pose for George Catlin, who painted his portrait as a Shawnee \"holy man\" in traditional attire. Tenskwatawa faded into obscurity and died in 1836, twelve years after he departed to Kansas.\n\nTenskwatawa died in November 1836 at his cabin, a site in present-day Kansas City's Argentine district.\nThe White Feather Spring historical marker, erected in 1978, denotes the approximate location of his gravesite in Kansas City, Kansas, which remained unmarked for decades.\n\nTenskwatawa's legacy was a mix of successes and failures. While he became a powerful spiritual leader with hundreds of followers in the first decade of the nineteenth century, his success in that effort only lasted about six years. The Prophet transformed himself from a hapless, alcoholic youth filled with failures into an influential religious leader. Tenskwatawa preached unity and helped to improve the morale of his people by encouraging them to pursue traditional ways. He also remained resolute in his rejection of United States authority and acculturation to the Euro-American way of life. After the defeat of his people at the Battle of Tippecanoe, the Prophet spent the remainder of his life trying to regain some of his previous political power. Tenskwatawa and his brother, Tecumseh, along with their followers were not successful in achieving the long-term results they wanted. They lost a difficult and violent struggle that deprived them of their lands in the Northwest Territory, largely due to the relentlessness and large-scale efforts of the United States, but their defiance was a noble effort and worth the risk.\n\nBecause most white Americans of his era were unfamiliar with Native American culture, they did not understand the Prophet's religious movement. Since his death in 1836, the Prophet has been relegated to a secondary role. Those who knew Tenskwatawa after 1825, when he no longer had his previous influence as a religious leader, described him as a \"shallow opportunist.\" However, it was Tenskwatawa, not his brother, Tecumseh, who provided the spiritual foundation for the Indian resistance movement in the Midwest in the years immediately preceding the War of 1812. In the Indiana Territory, the violence that erupted between the U.S. and the pan-Indian alliance that Tenskwatawa and Tecumseh established at Prophetstown led to the relocation of territorial capital from Vincennes to Corydon, Indiana. In addition, U.S. efforts to remove Indian inhabitants from the Indiana Territory increased after the War of 1812 and led to their forced removal to reservations in the trans-Mississippi west.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37545041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37545041", "title": "The Christian Chronicle", "text": "The Christian Chronicle\n\nThe Christian Chronicle is a religious newspaper associated with the Churches of Christ. The \"Chronicle\" has a \"news not views\" editorial policy. A survey conducted in the early 1990s found that 68 percent of ministers in the Churches of Christ read the \"Chronicle\", and 88 percent of those readers said they agreed with the content. The \"Encyclopedia of the Stone-Campbell Movement\" describes the \"Chronicle\" as \"by far the most-read paper in the Churches of Christ and [it] exercises an influence for cohesiveness in this part of the Stone-Campbell Movement\".\n\n\"The Christian Chronicle\" was established in 1943, and has been characterized as \"one of the most important sources of primary historical information on the worldwide missions carried out by Churches of Christ.\" The magazine was acquired by Sweet Publishing Company in the late 1960s. In 1981 the \"Chronicle\" was redesigned by Charlie Marler, a journalism professor from Abilene Christian University. It has been supported since 1981 by Oklahoma Christian University.\n\n"}
{"id": "14625587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14625587", "title": "Thekchen Choling", "text": "Thekchen Choling\n\n\nThekchen Choling is a registered Buddhist organisation in the Republic of Singapore. The organisation was started in 2001 by Namdrol Rinpoche and a group of his initial disciples. The organisation promotes non-sectarian Buddhism, emphasizing understanding of Theravada and Mahayana teachings.\n\nTCCL is committed to the Rime (non-sectarian) movement within Tibetan Buddhism though it is of the Gelug tradition. The primary practices and teachings of this temple are from Guru Rinpoche lineage and Lama Tsongkapa lineage.\n\nThe temple was started in accordance with the instructions of Geshe Lama Konchog of Kopan Monastery, with whom Namdrol Rinpoche studied in the late-1980s and early 1990s. Other teachers from this monastery include Lama Zopa and Lama Yeshe, who have written many books and founded many Buddhist centers.\nNamdrol Rinpoche's other root guru (primary teacher) was Khensur Rinpoche Lama Lhundrup Rigsel, known to his students as Khen Rinpoche. TCCL regularly hosts teachers from Kopan Monastery, Sera Jey Monastery, and several other Tibetan Buddhist teaching centers.\n\nNamdrol Rinpoche (born Felix Lee), was initiated as a Yogi. Rinpoche was advised by his gurus not to take monastic vows, and remain a lay practitioner. Trained as a chef and owner of a restaurant, Rinpoche was advised by his gurus in 1998 to give up the business and instead focus on spreading the Dharma. Geshe Lama Konchog also entrusted him with the task of setting up a Tibetan temple with the mission to change the existing mindset that one needs to be a monk or nun to practice Buddhism. Rinpoche closed his restaurant, and in 2001 formally registered the temple ‘Thekchen Choling (Singapore)\", a name meaning \"Mahayana Buddhist Temple,\" bestowed by Geshe Lama Konchog.\n\nAs a lay lama, he offers practical advice to those who seek his counsel for problems they encounter in daily life. Namdrol Rinpoche is the author of the book Direct Expressions.\n\nThe Thekchen Choling homepage describes Namdrol Rinpoche's initial meeting of his teachers in Nepal in this way:\n\nIn 1989, at the age of fifteen, a Buddhist master appeared in Rinpoche's dreams and instructed him to fulfill the vows of his previous life which was to teach those who did not have teachers. Following the instructions in his dreams, he was brought to Nepal by Venerable Sangye Khandro. Upon his arrival, Namdrol Rinpoche first met Lumbum Rinpoche and made light offerings at a temple. At the time, Rinpoche told him, \"We have been waiting for you\". It was later revealed that the Buddhist master who had first appeared in Lama's dream was in fact the great Buddhist saint, Guru Rinpoche.\n\nWithin Tibetan Buddhism, teachers study closely with more than one senior teacher. Lama Namdrol Tulku's primary teachers include:\n\n\nLocated at 2 Beatty Lane in Singapore, the temple was registered in 2001 by Namdrol Rinpoche, as instructed by his teacher Geshe Lama Konchog and named after the monastery of the 14th Dalai Lama as ‘Thekchen Choling (Singapore)’.\n\nThe address of Thekchen Choling used to be Ji Gong Temple, a heritage site in Singapore. A statue of Ji Gong from the previous Ji Gong Temple is still being revered at the main hall of the temple for devotees to make offerings.\n\nThe field of Religious Studies involves the analysis of architecture and various material objects, and TCCL has a number of outstanding devotional objects.\n\nTibetan Buddhist mindfulness training practice include the devotional treatment of statues of the Buddha (and his various forms); these statues are known as Buddharūpa (literally, 'Form of the Awakened One'), which is the Sanskrit and Pali term used in Buddhism for statues or models of the Buddha. Devotees treat the statues exactly as if they were the living bodies of fully realized Buddhas. TCCL contains several outstanding examples of Buddharupa in Thai, Chinese, and Nepali styles.\n\nJowa Shakyamuni Buddha\n\nModeled after the Shakyamuni Buddha in Tibet (Jokhang Monastery)\n\nGuru Rinpoche\n\nLarger than lifesize, this Guru Rinpoche statue is adorned with semi-precious stones and crystals. This figure represents the quintessential teacher (or guru), as Guru Rinpoche (or Padmasambhava) is said to have transmitted Tantric Buddhism to Tibet in the 8th century.\n\nMother Green Tara\n\nThis life-sized Mother Green Tara rupa is adorned with semi precious stones and crystals. Tārā is regarded as a Bodhisattva of compassion and action. She is the female aspect of Avalokitesvara (Chenrezig) and in some origin stories she comes from his tears.\nMig Chenresig and Medicine Buddha\n\nMig Chenresig's main activity is healing the eyes and is a unique form of Chenresig. This rupa is the only emanation of Chenresig in Singapore and was specially commissioned in line with the temple's aim to be a healing temple.\n\nMedicine Buddha is an enlightened being who has unbiased compassion for all living beings. He protects living beings from physical and mental sickness and other dangers and obstacles, and helps them to eradicate the three poisons – attachment, hatred, and ignorance – which are the source of all sickness and danger. He is a Buddha Doctor. Medicine Buddha was also the main practice of Geshe Lama Konchog.\n\nA prayer wheel, or mani wheel in Tibetan Buddhism, is a device that spins on an axis containing hundreds, thousands, or even millions of copies of a specific mantra. Instead saying one mantra at a time, a devotee who spins a prayer wheel believes himself to have said the mantra hundreds, thousands, or millions of times, depending on how many copies of the mantra are in the wheel.\n\nCommonly, prayer wheels contains Chenresig's mantras which devotees consider the turning of the wheel to be a manifestation of the Chenrezig's holy speech. Chenrezig, of whom the Dalai Lama is considered by Tibetan Buddhists to be an incarnation, is the protector of Tibet and is also known as Avalokitesvara (Guenther). Through this practice, one is believed to develop purity of body, speech, and mind. Buddhist texts teach that spinning the Mani Wheel (or prayer wheel) is equivalent to having recited all the mantras inside the wheel (Ladner). Turning the Mani Wheel is thus considered extremely beneficial.\n\nThe Giant Mani wheel in Thekchen Choling (Singapore) was commissioned and installed in 2003. It stands 3m high, is 1.38m in diameter, and contains 213 million of Chenresig's mantras.\n\n\nUnder the recommendation of Dagri Rinpoche, the whole collection of the Kangyur and Tengyur Text are now kept in TCCL. Also known as the Tibetan Buddhist Canon, this collection consists of loosely defined list of sacred texts recognised by various schools of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nThe temple has weekly teachings in English and Mandarin, chanting and prayers sessions. It is the only Tibetan Buddhist temple in Singapore to be open twenty four hours a day, seven days a week. The main hall is available to all who seek a place of quiet, for prayers, for meditation at any time of the day.\n\nThe temple provides free traditional Chinese Medicine consulting service, acupuncture service and medicine weekly. The temple provides free medicine distribution, free meals and financial support, with emphasis for the poor and elderly.\n\nThe devotees chant sutras in Mandarin wearing the traditional Chinese Hai-Ching and chant prayers in English and Tibetan while wearing the layman robes of white and maroon. This temple is unusual for the youth of its devotees; most are below the age of thirty five.\nThe temple was granted permission by the Office of the 14th Dalai Lama to publish thirteen of his books in simplified Mandarin for free distribution.\nDharma Education Teachings\n\n\nDharma Practices of Mahayana Tradition\n\n\nLunar New Year\n\nPrayers are performed for fifteen days coinciding with the days of miracles\n\nQing Ming\n\nTypically associated with remembrance of parents and ancestors, the temple provides prayers for the deceased\n\nVesak\n\nThe event marking Buddha's conception, enlightenment and parinirvana is marked by the unveiling of a thangka of Shakyamuni Buddha and his disciples. Throughout the month, numerous activities are held including pujas, sutra recitations and animal liberations.\n\nGuru Rinpoche Retreat\n\nGuru Rinpoche (\"Precious Guru\") or Padmasambhava (\"the Lotus Born\") was the sage guru who brought Vajrayana Buddhism to the Himalayan kingdoms during the eighth century. To this day, he is regarded as the second Buddha in these regions. A Guru Rinpoche retreat is held annually, as students come together to do the recitation practice of Seven Line Prayer to Guru Rinpoche.\n\nUllambana\n\nPrayers are held in the Chinese Mahayana tradition with the recitation of sutras associated with Buddha Ksitigarbha and various confession text.\n\nHealing Festival\n\nCombining prayers to Chenresig, Mig Chenresig and Medicine Buddha the main focus of this prayer event are prayers for good health and healing.\n\nWith the vision of \"Connecting All with Divine Hearts\", Thekchen Choling hopes to complement the spiritual healing of the temple with a focus on giving aid to those in need.\n\nThekchen Choling Community Outreach offers the following community services:\n\nHealing Services\n\nTCCL is developing ways to provide effective health care to the needy. The healing services consist of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Acupuncture and Reiki Healing sessions held weekly at the temple. Future plans include a western medical health clinic. The temple regularly hosts Healing oracles from Ladakh providing their unique form of healing.\n\nEducation Services\n\nThe temple grants annual education bursaries to needy students each year regardless of religious backgrounds.\n\nYouth Development Services\n\nThe objective of Thekchen Choling Youth Development Services is to groom youths to be courageous, caring and socially responsible adults. Programmes are planned to help in the overall development of youths. These programmes include self-awareness and social skills and community outreach opportunities.\n\nElderly and Needy Support Services\n\nGiven the rising prices of food recently, TCCL hopes to lend a helping hand to the needy by distributing food rations to them. Started in 2007 as Project Maude, this free ration distribution project held 3 times a year during Chinese New Year, Vesak Day, and Mid Autumn Festival has grown now to BESAR Project, a collaborative effort with the Jalan Besar Citizens Consultative Committee, supporting more than 1000 needy families and elderly on each occasion.\n\nFor many years, Malaysian students of Rinpoche have persistently requested him to start similar temples in Malaysia so that people in Malaysia can benefit from Dharma as well as community outreach programmes.\n\nAfter numerous location searches of three months since June 2012, we found Melaka to be suitable and ripe for us to start our first overseas centre. Thekchen Choling (Malaysia) was officially approved by the Malaysian Federal Government on 15 October 2012 as a society to operate Buddhist temples.\n\nThus begins the chapter of Thekchen Choling (Malaysia) Melaka Centre, operating on a rented premise at 8 and 8A, Jalan Laksamana Cheng Ho. It started operations from 10 November 2012.\n\nIn late 2013, a 2-acre piece of land in Kota Tinggi was offered to Rinpoche. This marks the birth of Thekchen Choling Kota Tinggi Meditation Centre.\n\nThe Palace of 1000-Armed Chenrezig is near completion. Specially commissioned by Namdrol Rinpoche, this magnificent statue of 1000-Armed Chenrezig stands at 36 feet tall and is beautifully adorned with pearls, corals, turquoises and dzi-beads. This statue is the largest representation of Chenresig (or Avalokitesvara) in Tibetan style outside of Tibet and China that has been accurately represented and traditionally filled with tsung under the personal guidance of Kyabje Jhado Rinpoche in the Vajrayana tradition.\n\nThe Meditation center is open to devotees for retreats and practices purpose.\n\nOn the auspicious day of the 29th day of the eighth lunar month of the Wooden Horse year (22 October 2014), Thekchen Choling USA (Syracuse) - a new temple for the cultivation and practice of Buddhadarma located at 128 N. Warren Street, Syracuse, New York 13202, USA, was officially established.\n\nThekchen Choling USA (Syracuse) is the latest temple formed under the auspice of the Namdrol Labrang, the latter of which oversees a family of organizations that include Thekchen Choling (Singapore), Thekchen Choling (Malaysia) and Thekchen Choling Kota Tinggi Meditation Centre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51414843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51414843", "title": "Vidyananda (8th-century Jain monk)", "text": "Vidyananda (8th-century Jain monk)\n\nVidyananda was an 8th-century Indian Jain monk.\n\nVidyananda was a Jain scholar and monk. He was born in 750 AD and died in 800.\n\nHe wrote \"Ashtasahasri\" which is a commentary on Samantabhadra's \"Devagamastotra\".\n"}
{"id": "1504408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1504408", "title": "Vishtaspa", "text": "Vishtaspa\n\nVishtaspa (Avestan: \"𐬬𐬌𐬱𐬙𐬁𐬯𐬞𐬀‎ \", Old Persian:𐎻𐏁𐎫𐎠𐎿𐎱 whence Ancient Greek Ὑστάσπης) is the Avestan-language name of a figure of Zoroastrian scripture and tradition, portrayed as an early follower of Zoroaster, and his patron, and instrumental in the diffusion of the prophet's message. Although Vishtaspa is not epigraphically attested, he is – like Zoroaster also – traditionally assumed to have been a historical figure, and – again, like Zoroaster – that figure is obscured by accretions from legend and myth.\n\nIn Zoroastrian tradition, which builds on allusions found in the Avesta, Vishtaspa is a righteous king who helped propagate and defend the faith. In the non-Zoroastrian Sistan cycle texts, Vishtaspa is a loathsome ruler of Kayanian dynasty who intentionally sends his eldest son to a certain death. In Greco-Roman literature, Zoroaster's patron was the pseudo-anonymous author of a set of prophecies written under his name.\n\nVishtaspa is referred to in the Gathas, the oldest texts of Zoroastrianism which were considered to have been composed by Zoroaster himself. In these hymns, the poet speaks of Vishtaspa as his ally (\"Yasna\" 46. 14), follower of the path of Vohu Manah (\"Y\". 51. 16), and committed to spreading the prophet's message (\"Y\". 51. 16, 46. 15, 53. 2). In \"Yasna\" 28. 1–28. 7, Zoroaster appeals to Mazda for several boons, including the power to vanquish their foes for Vishtaspa and himself. Considered collectively, the Gathas celebrate Vishtaspa as the \"patron of Zoroaster and the establisher of the first Zoroastrian community. \"\n\nThe Gathic allusions recur in the \"Yashts\" of the Younger Avesta. The appeal to Mazda for a boon reappears in \"Yasht\" 5. 98, where the boon is asked for the Haugvan and Naotara families, and in which Vishtaspa is said to be a member of the latter. Later in the same hymn, Zoroaster is described as appealing to Mazda to \"bring Vishtaspa, son of Aurvataspa, to think according to Daena (Religion), to speak according to the Religion, to act according to the Religion.\" (\"Yt\". 5. 104–105). In \"Yasht\" 9. 25–26, the last part of which is an adaptation of the Gathic \"Yasna\" 49. 7, the prophet makes the same appeal with regard to Hutaosa, wife of Vishtaspa.\n\nIn \"Yasht\" 9. 130, Vishtaspa himself appeals for the ability to drive off the attacks of the \"daeva\"-worshipping Arejat.aspa and other members of \"drujvant\" Hyaona family. Similarly in \"Yasht\" 5. 109, Vishtaspa pleads for strength that he may \"crush Tathryavant of the bad religion, the \"daeva\"-worshipper Peshana, and the wicked Arejat.aspa.\" Elsewhere (\"Yt\". 5. 112–113), Vishtaspa also pleads for strength on behalf of Zairivairi (Pahl. Zarēr), who in later tradition is said to be Vishtaspa's younger brother. The allusions to conflicts (perhaps battles, see below) are again obliquely referred to in \"Yasht\" 13. 99–100, in which the fravashis of Zoroaster and Vishtaspa are described as victorious combatants for Asha, and the rescuers and furtherers of the religion. This description is repeated in \"Yasht\" 19. 84–87, where Zoroaster, Vishtaspa and Vishtaspa's ancestors are additionally said to possess \"khvarenah\". While the chief hero of the conflicts is said to be Vishtaspa's son, Spentodhata, (\"Yt. \" 13. 103) in \"Yasht\" 13. 100, Vishtaspa is proclaimed to have set his adopted faith \"in the place of honor\" amongst peoples.\n\nPassages in the \"Frawardin Yasht\" (\"Yt. \" 13. 99–103) and elsewhere have enabled commentators to infer family connections between Vishtaspa and several other figures named in the Avesta. The summaries of several lost Avestan texts (\"Wishtasp sast nask\", \"Spand nask\", \"Chihrdad nask\", and \"Varshtmansar nask\"), as reported in the \"Denkard\" (respectively 8. 11, 8. 13, 8. 14, and 9. 33. 5), suggest that there once existed a detailed \"history\" of Vishtaspa and his ancestors in scripture. The \"Yasht\" 13 mentions Zairiuuairi, Piší šiiaoθna (Vishtaspa's eschatological son Pišišōtan), Spəṇtōδāta (Spandyād), Bastauuairi (Bastwar), Kauuarazman, Frašaoštra and Jāmāspa (the Huuōguua brothers in the Gathas), all of whom are featured in the Pahlavi narrative about the war between Vishtaspa and Arzāsp (Arjāsp, king of the Xiiaonas). In \"Yasht\" 9.31, Vishtaspa prays to Druuāspā that he may successfully fight and kill various opponents and, apparently, turn Humaiiā and Varəδakanā away from the lands of the Xiiaonas.\n\nIn \"Yasna\" 12, the Zarathustra, Vishtaspa, Frašaoštra and Jāmāspa, and the three Saošiiaṇts, Zarathustra’s eschatological sons, and in \"Yasna\" 23.2 and 26.5, the fravashi of Gaiia Marətān, Zarathustra, Vishtaspa, and Isaṯ.vāstra (another of Zarathustra’s eschatological sons) are listed as the principal fighters for Asha.\n\nThe meaning of Vishtaspa's name is uncertain. Interpretations include \"'he whose horses have (\"or\" horse has) come in ready (for riding, etc.)'\"; \"'he who has trained horses'\"; and \"'whose horses are released (for the race)'\". It agrees with the description from Yasht 5.132 in which was a prototypical winner of the chariot race.\n\nIn the Gathas, Vishtaspa is repeatedly (\"Y. \" 46. 14, 51. 16, 53. 2) referred to as a \"kavi\", which is etymologically a term for a mantic seer, or poet-priest, and in \"Yasna\" 28. 11 is also used of Zoroaster's enemies. In the Younger Avesta the term is also applied to wise men generally, to include Vishtaspa and his ancestors. In tradition however, the kavis are kings, \"evidently because Vīštāspa and his forebears, the 'kavis' \"par excellence\", were princely rulers. Presumably the gift of prophecy, of mantic poetry, was hereditary in their family. \" Both scripture and tradition refer to Vishtaspa's ancestors but do not mention Vishtaspa's successors; Vishtaspa was apparently the last of his line, and the last of the kavis. In Zoroastrian apocalyptic chronology, the dynasties of the world are divided into seven ages, each named after a metal. According to this chronology (\"Zand-i Wahman yasn\" 2. 16, \"Dabistan\" 140), Vishtaspa (in Zoroastrian Middle Persian \"Wishtasp\") ascent to the throne ended the reign of silver, and his reign was over the age of gold. In tradition, the works of Zoroaster were said to have been kept in a royal library that was then destroyed by Alexander the Great. In \"Denkard\" 3. 420, it is Vishtaspa who is said to have been the king who had those texts made and placed in the royal library.\n\nThe conversion of Vishtaspa is likewise a theme of the 9th–11th century books, and these legends remain the \"best known and most current\" among Zoroastrians today. According to this tradition, when Zoroaster arrived at Vishtaspa's court, the prophet was \"met with hostility from the \"kayag\"s and \"karab\"s (\"kavi\"s and \"karapan\"s), with whom he disputed at a great assembly–a tradition which may well be based on reality, for [Vishtaspa] must have had his own priests and seers, who would hardly have welcomed a new prophet claiming divine authority. \" The tradition goes on to relate that Zoroaster triumphed after three days of debate, only to be maligned by his enemies to Vishtaspa, who then had the prophet imprisoned. But, from prison, Zoroaster cured one of Vishtaspa's favourite horses (which had suddenly become paralyzed), for which the prophet then gained Vishtaspa's support and admiration. The tale is obliquely referred to in the \"Anthology of Zadspram\" (24. 6), which seems to presume that the reader already knows it, and it is summarized in the \"Denkard\" (7. 4. 64–86), and – as \"workings of popular fancy\" – described in detail in the later \"Book of Zoroaster\" (942–1094). In the myth, Zoroaster cures each of the horse's four legs in exchange for four concessions: first, that Vishtaspa himself accept Zoroaster's message; secondly, that Vishtaspa's son Spentodata (MP: Esfandiar) do the same; third, that Vishtaspa's wife Hutaosa (MP: Hutos) also convert; and finally that the men who maligned Zoroaster be put to death. When these four wishes are granted, the horse stands up rejuvenated. Vishtaspa, having accepted the faith from Zoroaster, then asks for four favours in return: first, that he, Vishtaspa, should know his place in the next world; secondly, that he should become invulnerable; third, that he should know the future; and fourth that his body should not leave his soul until the resurrection. Zoroaster replies that these are too great to all be given to one man, and that he should choose one. Vishtaspa agrees, and chooses the first. Zoroaster then gives him consecrated wine to drink, which puts Vishtaspa in a trance in which he has an epiphany; he sees his spirit ascend to heaven where it beholds the glories of God. Vishtaspa's conversion is traditionally said to have taken place during Zoroaster's forty-second year, \"a figure undoubtedly reached by later calculation\".\n\nIn medieval Zoroastrian chronology, Vishtaspa is identified as a grandfather of \"Ardashir\", i.e. the 5th century BCE Artaxerxes I (or II). This myth is tied to the Sassanid (early 3rd–early 7th century) claim of descent from Artaxerxes, and the claim of relationship to the Kayanids, that is, with Vishtaspa and his ancestors. The full adoption of Kayanid names, titles and myths from the Avesta by the Sassanids was a \"main component of [Sassanid] ideology. \" The association of Artaxerxes with the Kayanids occurred through the identification of Artaxerxes II's title ('Mnemon' in Greek) with the name of Vishtaspa's legendary grandson and successor, Wahman: both are theophorics of Avestan Vohu Manah \"Good Mind(ed)\"; Middle Persian 'Wahman' is a contraction of the Avestan name, while Greek 'Mnemon' is a calque of it. The Sassanid association of their dynasty with Vishtaspa's is a development dated to the end of the 4th century, and which \"arose to some extent because this was when the Sasanians conquered Balkh, the birthplace of Vishtasp and the 'holy land' of Zoroastrianism. \"\n\nAs was also the case for the fourth century Roman identification of Zoroaster's patron with the late-6th century BCE father of Darius I (see below) – the identification of Vishtaspa as a grandfather of \"Ardashir\" (Artaxerxes I/II) was once perceived to substantiate the \"traditional date\" of Zoroaster, which places the prophet in the 6th century BCE. The traditional descriptions of Vishtaspa's ancestors as having chariots (a description that puts them fully in the Bronze Age) also contribute to the academic debate on the dating of Zoroaster; for a summary of the role of Vishtaspa's ancestors in this issue, see .\n\nNon-Zoroastrian literature in New Persian and Arabic uniformly reflects the regular development of Middle Persian \"wi-\" into \"gu-\", with Middle Persian \"Wishtasp\" thus becoming \"Goshtasb\" in Sistan national history (\"Tarikh-e Sistan\"), \"Goshtasp\" in Firdausi's \"Book of Kings\" (\"Shahnameh\"), \"Goshtasf\" in the \"Mojmal al-tawarikh\", \"Beshtashb\" by Al-Tabari. \n\nIn several respects, for instance in Goshtasb's/Goshtasf's (etc) mythological genealogy, the Sistan cycle texts continue the Zoroastrian tradition. So, for example, Goshtasp is identified as a member of the Kayanian dynasty, is the son of Lohrasp/Lohrasb (etc), is the brother of Zareh/Zarer (etc), is the father of Esfandiar/Isfandiar (etc) and Bashutan/Beshotan (etc), and so on. However, in the Sistan legends, Goshtasb/Goshtasf (etc.) is an abominable figure, altogether unlike the hero of Zoroastrian tradition. The reason for this discrepancy is unknown. According to the Sistan tradition, Goshtasb demands the throne from his father Lohrasp, but storms off to India (\"Hind\") when the king declines. Goshtasb's brother Zareh (Zareh/Zarer etc., Avestan Zairivairi) is sent to fetch him, but Goshtasb flees to \"Rome\" where he marries Katayoun (Katayun/Katayoun etc), the daughter of the 'qaysar'. Goshtasb subsequently becomes a military commander for the Roman emperor, and encourages the emperor to demand tribute from Iran. Again Zareh is sent to fetch Goshtasb, who is then promised the throne, and is thus persuaded to return. \n\nBack in Sistan, Goshtasb imprisons his own son Esfandiar (Esfandiar/Isfandiar etc., Avestan Spentodata), but then has to seek Esfandiar's help in defeating Arjasp (Avestan Aurvataspa) who is threatening Balkh. Goshtasb promises Esfandiar the throne in return for his help, but when Esfandiar is successful, his father stalls and instead sends him off on another mission to suppress a rebellion in Turan. Esfandiar is again successful, and upon his return Goshtasb hedges once again and – aware of a prediction that foretells the death of Esfandiar at the hand of Rostam – sends him off on a mission in which Esfandiar is destined to die. In the \"Shahnameh\", the nobles upbraid Goshtasb as a disgrace to the throne; his daughters denounce him as a heinous criminal; and his younger son Bashutan (Avestan Peshotanu) condemns him as a wanton destroyer of Iran. \n\nAs in Zoroastrian tradition, in the Sistan cycle texts Goshtasp is succeeded by Esfandiar's son, Bahman (< MP Wahman). The identification of Bahman with 'Ardashir' (see above) reappears in the Sistan cycle texts as well.\n\nThe name \"Visthaspa\" is \"Hystaspes\" in the Greek and Latin texts of the Hellenistic era. Besides referring to historically attested persons named Vishtaspa, it was also applied to Zoroaster's patron, who the Greeks and Romans imagined to be a sage of great antiquity, and the putative author of a set of prophecies written under his name. Although the works attributed to Pseudo-Hystaspes draw on real Zoroastrian sources, the Greek and Roman portraits of his person are just as fanciful as those of the other two \"les Mages hellénisés\", Pseudo-Zoroaster and Pseudo-Ostanes. While Pseudo-Zoroaster was identified as the \"inventor\" of astrology, and Pseudo-Ostanes was imagined to be a master sorcerer, Pseudo-Hystaspes seems to have been stereotyped as an apocalyptic prophet.\n\nNone of the works attributed to him are still extant, but quotations and references have survived in the works of others, especially in those of two early Christian writers – Justin Martyr (ca. 100 CE) in Samaria and the mid-3rd century Lactantius in North Africa – who drew on them by way of confirmation that what themselves held to be revealed truth had already been uttered. Only one of these pseudepigraphic works – referred to as the \"Book of Hystaspes\" or the \"Oracles of Hystaspes\" or just \"Hystaspes\" – is known by name. This work (or set of works) of the first century BCE is referred to by Lactantius, Justin Martyr, Clement of Alexandria, Lydus, and Aristokritos, all of whom describe it as foretelling the downfall of the Roman empire, the return of rule to the east, and of the coming of the saviour.\n\nLactantius provides a detailed summary of the \"Oracles of Hystaspes\" in his \"Divinae Institutiones\" (Book VII, from the end of chapter 15 through chapter 19). It begins with Hystaspes awaking from a dream, and needing to have it interpreted for him. This is duly accomplished by a young boy, \"here representing, according to convention, the openness of youth and innocent to divine visitations. \" As interpreted by the boy, the dream \"predicts\" the iniquity of the last age, and the impending destruction of the wicked by fire. The divine fire will burn both the righteous and the wicked, but only the wicked will be hurt and neither will be destroyed. During the eschatological inferno, the \"followers of truth\" will separate themselves from the wicked and ascend a mountain. The evil king who dominates the world will be angered on hearing this, and he will resolve to encircle the mountain with his army. The righteous implore to \"Jupiter\", who sends them a saviour, who will descend from heaven accompanied by angels and before him a flaming sword. Hystaspes \"prophesies\" that the wicked king (i.e. the Roman emperor) will survive the destruction of his armies, but will lose power. It was \"presumably\" the prophecy of the destruction of a victorious power (i.e. the Roman empire) that caused the work to be proscribed by Rome; according to Justin Martyr (\"Apologia\", I. 44. 12), reading the work was punishable by death.\n\nUnlike the works attributed to the other two \"les Mages hellénisés\", the \"Oracles of Hystaspes\" was apparently based on the genuine Zoroastrian myths, and \"the argument for ultimate magian composition is a strong one. [...] As prophecies they have a political context, a function, and a focus which radically distinguish them from the philosophical and encyclopedic wisdom of the other pseudepigrapha. \" Although \"[p]rophecies of woes and iniquities in the last age are alien to orthodox Zoroastrianism\", there was probably a growth of Zoroastrian literature in the late fourth-early third centuries denouncing the evils of the Hellenistic age, and offering hope of the coming kingdom of Ahura Mazda.\n\nThe Greco-Roman obsession with Zoroaster as the \"inventor\" of astrology also influenced the image of Hystaspes. So for example in Lydus' \"On the months\" (\"de Mensibus\" II. 4), which credits \"the Chaldeans in the circle of Zoroaster and Hystaspes and the Egyptians\" for the creation of the seven-day week after the number of planets.\n\nThe fourth century Ammianus Marcellinus (xxiii. 6. 32) identifies Zoroaster's patron with another Vishtaspa, better known as Hystaspes in English, the (late-6th century BCE) father of Darius I. The sixth century Agathias was more ambivalent, observing that it wasn't clear to him whether the name of Zoroaster's patron referred to the father of Darius or to another Hystaspes (ii. 24). As with the medieval Zoroastrian chronology that identifies Vishtaspa with \"Ardashir\" (see above), Ammianus' identification was once considered to substantiate the \"traditional date\" of Zoroaster. \n\n"}
{"id": "55755758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55755758", "title": "Votive column", "text": "Votive column\n\nA votive column (also votive pillar) is the combination of a column (pillar) and a votive image.\n\nThe presence of columns supporting votive sculptures in Ancient Greek temples is well attested since at least the Archaic period.\nThe oldest known example of a Corinthian column is in the Temple of Apollo Epicurius at Bassae in Arcadia, c. 450–420 BC. It is not part of the order of the temple itself, which has a Doric colonnade surrounding the temple and an Ionic order within the cella enclosure. A single Corinthian column stands free, centered within the cella. It is often interpreted as a votive column.\n\nIn Imperial Rome, it was the practice to erect a statue of the Emperor atop a column. The last such a column was the Column of Phocas, erected in the Roman Forum and dedicated or rededicated in 608. \nThe Christian adaptation is the Marian column, attested from at least the 10th century (in Clermont-Ferrand in France).\nThe image of Our Lady of the Pillar in Zaragoza dates to the 15th century.\nMarian columns became popular especially in the Counter-Reformation, beginning with the column in Piazza Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome. The column itself was ancient, a leftover of the Basilica of Constantine, which had been destroyed by an earthquake in the 9th century. In 1614 it was transported to Piazza Santa Maria Maggiore and crowned with a bronze statue of the Virgin and Child. Within decades it served as a model for many columns in Italy and other European countries, such as the \"Mariensäule\" in Munich (1638).\n\n"}
