{"id": "39822702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39822702", "title": "2013 Egyptian coup d'état", "text": "2013 Egyptian coup d'état\n\nThe 2013 Egyptian coup d'état took place on 3 July 2013. Egyptian army chief General Abdel Fattah el-Sisi led a coalition to remove the President of Egypt, Mohamed Morsi, from power and suspended the Egyptian constitution of 2012. The move came after the military's ultimatum for the government to \"resolve its differences\" with protesters during widespread national protests. The military arrested Morsi and Muslim Brotherhood leaders, and declared Chief Justice of the Supreme Constitutional Court (Egypt) Adly Mansour as the interim president of Egypt. The announcement was followed by demonstrations and clashes between supporters and opponents of the move throughout Egypt. The military's action was supported by the Grand Sheikh of Al Azhar Ahmed el-Tayeb, the Coptic Orthodox Pope Tawadros II and opposition leader Mohamed ElBaradei.\n\nThere were mixed international reactions to the events. Most Arab leaders were generally supportive or neutral, with the exception of Tunisia who strongly condemned the military's actions. The US refused to describe the action as a coup. Other states either condemned or expressed concern over the removal of Morsi. Due to the regulations of the African Union regarding the interruption of constitutional rule by a member state, Egypt was suspended from that union. There has also been debate in the media regarding the labeling of these events. It has been described by Western mainstream media as a coup or as a revolution by proponents.\n\nEnsuing protests in favour of Morsi were violently suppressed culminating with the dispersal and massacre of pro-Morsi sit-ins on 14 August 2013, amid ongoing unrest; journalists, and several hundreds protestors were killed by police and military force. Muslim brotherhood members claim 2,600 Human rights watch documented 817 deaths, calling it ';one of the world's largest killings of demonstrators in a single day in recent history;', while the government puts the figure at 624.\n\nIn February 2011, Hosni Mubarak resigned after 18 days of mass demonstrations that ended his 29-year rule of Egypt. In July 2011 the caretaker government approved an election law, leading to election of a Parliament in December 2011 – January 2012, and an advisory council in January–February 2012 [ref: Egyptian Parliamentary Election 2011–2012; Wikipedia] An alliance led by the Freedom and Justice Party won the most seats in each election. An additional 25% of the members of the advisory council were to be appointed by the President. In June 2012, Mohamed Morsi won the presidential election with 51.73% of total votes to become the first democratically elected president of Egypt. In June 2012, prior to Morsi being sworn in as President, the Supreme Constitutional Court ruled that the election law was unconstitutional and ordered the elected bodies dissolved. After assuming office, President Morsi appointed additional members to the advisory council from 35 political parties and invited the elected bodies to meet to discuss the ruling of the court.\n\nThe elected parliament determined that the constitutional court did not have authority to dissolve an elected parliament, then referred the matter to the Court of Cassation. The elected parliament could not pass any laws, but the advisory council continued to give advice on proposed Presidential Decrees. Parliament also proceeded with creation of a new constitutional committee to draft amendments to the Egyptian Constitution, replacing the committee created in March 2012 but dissolved by the constitutional court. Proposed constitutional amendments were approved in December 2012 by a national referendum. New elections were scheduled for April 2013 under a law approved in draft by the constitutional court, but were postponed to October 2013 to comply with a technical order of an administrative court.\n\nIn November 2012, following the protests against the Constitutional Declaration by Morsi, opposition politicians – including Mohamed ElBaradei, Amr Moussa and Hamdeen Sabahi, according to the Wall Street Journal – started holding confidential meetings with army leaders, in order to discuss ways of removing President Morsi.\n\nOn 28 April 2013, Tamarod was started as a grassroots movement to collect signatures to remove Morsi by 30 June. They called for peaceful demonstrations across Egypt especially in front of the Presidential Palace in Cairo. The movement was supported by the National Salvation Front, April 6 Youth Movement and Strong Egypt Party.\n\nIn a poll published by PEW research center in May 2013, 54% of Egyptians approved of Morsi against a 43% who saw him negatively, while about 30% were happy with the direction of the country, 73% thought positively of the army and only 35% were content about local policy authorities. In the lead up to the protests, a Gallup poll indicated that about a third of Egyptians said they were \"suffering\" and viewed their lives poorly.\n\nAt a conference on 15 June, Morsi called for foreign intervention in Syria. According to Yasser El-Shimy, an analyst with the International Crisis Group, this statement crossed \"a national security red line.\" The army rebuked this statement the next day by stating that its only role was to guard Egypt's borders. Although the Egyptian constitution ostensibly declares the president as the supreme commander of the armed forces, the Egyptian military is independent of civilian control.\n\nAs the first anniversary of Morsi's presidential inauguration approached in 2013, his supporters such as the National Coalition for Supporting Legitimacy started demonstrations at multiple places including El-Hossari Mosque, El-Nahda Square, outside Cairo University, outside Al-Rayan Mosque in the posh suburb of Maadi, and in Ain Shams district. They had started open-ended rallies. The largest protest was planned for 30 June.\n\nThe removal of Morsi from office by the coalition was a result of a coup d'état following protests, that were instigated by frustration with Morsi's year-long rule in which Egypt faced economic issues, energy shortages, lack of security, and diplomatic crises. Some of the issues that might have caused the protests and lead to the later removal of Morsi include:\n\n\nLeaked tapes from the summer of 2013 that were later verified by J. P. French Associates recorded figures of the Egyptian military, including then-Gen. Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, suggesting Egyptian military involvement in the mass-protests preceding Morsi's ouster. In one of the leaked tapes, the generals are heard discussing rigging the legal case against Morsi, and in another, authorizing the withdrawal of a large sum of money for the army's use from the bank account of Tamarod, the ostensibly independent grassroots group that was organizing protests against President Morsi. The tapes also suggest high-level collusion between the coup plotters and the Government of the United Arab Emirates as the money that is to be transferred from Tamarod's account into the army's account was provided by the UAE. The tapes were first released on the Turkish Islamist channel \"Mekameleen\", a fact that the Egyptian government says discredits the tapes as fakes. American officials later confirmed that the United Arab Emirates was indeed providing financial support for the protests against Morsi that preceded the military coup.\n\nOn Friday 28 June, protests against Morsi started to build throughout Egypt including in such cities as Cairo, Alexandria, Dakahlia, Gharbiya and Aswan as a \"warm up\" for the massive protests expected on 30 June that were planned by Tamarod. Pro-Morsi and Muslim Brotherhood supporters started counter demonstrations at the Rabia Al-Adawiya Mosque in Nasr City.\n\nPrior to the protests, Christians, particularly in Upper Egypt, received threats from pro-Morsi protestors, pressuring them not to take part in the protests. Sheikh Essam Abdulamek, a member of parliament's Shura Council, said in an interview on television that Christians should not participate in the protests and warned them \"do not sacrifice your children [since the] general Muslim opinion will not be silent about the ousting of the president.\"\n\nAccording to information that came out after the removal of Morsi, officials claimed that Morsi stopped working at Egyptian Presidential Palace on 26 June in anticipation to the protests and moved with his family to El-Quba Palace.\n\nOn 29 June, Tamarod claimed that it collected more than 22 million signatures from a petition calling for Morsi to step down as president.\n\nOn the other hand, the coup was preceded by the reconciliation of military and economic elites who organized shortages of fuel to provoke discontent of general population toward the Morsi administration.\n\nOn 30 June, according to unverified military sources, 14 million protesters demonstrated across Egypt against Morsi bellowing their anger at the Brotherhood, which they accuse of hijacking Egypt's revolution and using electoral victories to monopolize power and impose Islamic law. Thousands in support of Morsi gathered in Rabaa Square in Cairo and other cities, with majority of Islamist sentiments. The Egyptian Armed Forces claimed the number to be at 14 million and reportedly one of the biggest protests in world history. In Damietta, 250 fishing boat sailors demonstrated against Morsi by sailing through the Nile and chanting against him. The President moved that day from the Quba Palace to the Republican Guard headquarters, while protesters thought he was at Ittihadeya Palace.\n\nOn 1 July, again more than 1 millions of demonstrators against Morsi gathered in Tahrir Square and outside the presidential palace, while other demonstrations were held in the cities of Alexandria, Port Said and Suez. Some police officers wearing their uniforms joined the anti-Morsi protests and chanted: \"The police and the people are one.\" In clashes around the Muslim Brotherhood headquarters in Mokatam, eight people died. Their headquarters was ransacked and burned while protesters threw objects at windows and looted the building, making off with office equipment and documents. Tamarod gave President Mohamed Morsi until 2 July at 17:00 to resign or face a civil disobedience campaign. That was followed by the Egyptian Armed Forces issuing a 48-hour ultimatum that gave the country's political parties until 3 July to meet the demands of the Egyptian people. The Egyptian military also threatened to intervene if the dispute was not resolved by then. Four ministers also resigned on the same day: Tourism Minister Hisham Zazou (who previously offered to resign a few months earlier after Morsi appointed an Islamist member of al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, the group allegedly responsible of the Luxor massacre, though the group has denied this charge, as governor of Luxor), Communication and IT Minister Atef Helmi, State Minister for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Hatem Bagato, and State Minister for Environmental Affairs Khaled Abdel Aal, leaving the government with only members of the Freedom and Justice Party.\nOn the same day, it was reported that Barack Obama called Morsi. The call went along the United States vision and that the only one option out of the stressed situation would be to call for an early general presidential election in which Morsi is not a candidate. The proposition which Morsi answered: \"the Egyptian people decide\", before he closed the line.\n\nOn 2 July, opponents and supporters of Morsi gathered in the capital, Cairo, as the deadline set by the military for him to solve the escalating political problem where they said they would intervene without the elimination of either sides, however, they betrayed their speech and the president and engineered a coup the next day. Helicopters were also present around Cairo with armored vehicles taking up positions. On 3 July, clashes between protestors and local residents erupted around a pro-Morsi rally near Cairo University, leaving 18 people dead. Foreign Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr also resigned, in support of the anti-government protesters. The presidency rejected the Egyptian Army's 48-hour ultimatum, vowing that the president would pursue his own plans for national reconciliation to resolve the political crisis. Defense Minister General Abdel Fattah el-Sisi was also said to have told Morsi that he would impose a military solution if a political one could not be found by the next day. Incidentally, the Court of Cassation ordered the reinstatement of former general prosecutor Abdel Maguid Mahmoud who was replaced with Talaat Abdallah following the constitutional declaration on 22 November 2012. The presidential spokesman and the spokesman for the cabinet resigned as well.\n\nThe newspaper \"Al-Ahram\" reported that if there were no political resolution, the military would suspend the constitution of Egypt and appoint a new council of experts to draft a new one, institute a three-person executive council, and appoint a prime minister from the military. Morsi's military advisor, Sami Hafez Anan, also resigned and said that the army would not \"abandon the will of the people.\"\n\nIn a late-night television address Morsi declared that he would \"defend the legitimacy of his elected office with his life.\" He added that \"there is no substitute for legitimacy\" as he vowed not to resign. Morsi accused supporters of Hosni Mubarak of exploiting the wave of protests to topple the government and fight democracy. After Morsi's statement, an official Facebook page of the Egyptian Armed Forces wrote a post under the title \"The Last Hours\" saying in response to Morsi: \"The Supreme Commander in Chief of the Egyptian Armed Forces had mentioned before that it's better for us to die rather than seeing the Egyptian People being threatened or horrified, and we swear that we would sacrifice our lives and our blood for Egypt against every terrorist or extremist or ignorant. Long live Egypt.\"\n\nAs the deadline of the army's ultimatum approached on 3 July, there was renewed expectation of an increase in violence, according to the media. As in other days, there were both anti-Morsi and pro-Morsi protests, the latter particularly in Nasr City and near Cairo University. Army tanks were reported to surround two smaller pro-Morsi rallies as the demonstrators vowed to defend the government with their lives.\n\nAs the 16:35 deadline set by the army approached, the coalition met with the military leaders for emergency talks, with the expectation that the army would issue a statement when the deadline passed. Mohamed El-Baradei, who was chosen to represent the National Salvation Front, was also said to have met army chief General Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.\n\nOn same day just before the deadline approached, Morsi offered to form a consensus government. An army statement read: \"The General Command of the Armed Forces is currently meeting with a number of religious, national, political and youth icons...There will be a statement issued from the General Command as soon as they are done.\" At the same time the Freedom and Justice Party's senior leader, Waleed al-Haddad, said: \"We do not go to invitations (meetings) with anyone. We have a president and that is it.\"\n\nAt about 17:30 Mohammed Zaki, Leader of Republic Guards, joined Morsi with some of the Republic Guards officers and conducted the arrest. It was reported from Morsi's assistant Yahya Hamed the flow of conversation took place as Morsi saying \"Mohammed (Leader of Republic Guards) you know well you are going to be trailed for that.\" and Mohammed Zaki replying: \"I know, however I had already told them I don't want in, because of my special good relations with the president.\"\n\nOn 3 July, General Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, head of the Egyptian Armed Forces, announced that he there would be calling new presidential and Shura Council elections. The coalition appointed Chief Justice Adly Mansour as the interim president and charged him with forming a transitional technocratic government. Military vehicles drove throughout Cairo. Morsi was put under house arrest, and was believed to be at the Republican Guard barracks. According to other sources he was taken to a military base and his travel was restricted. Army troops and tanks were reported to have surrounded key facilities and installations. At noon, the Republican Guard, who had Morsi in their care, left his side to allow Army commandos to take him to an undisclosed Ministry of Defence building. He offered no resistance.\n\nGeneral al-Sisi said: \"The president's speech last night failed to meet and conform with the demands [of the people, prompting the armed forces to consult] with some of the symbols of the national forces and the youths without excluding anyone. [They agreed on a road map] that includes initial steps that realize the building of a strong and coherent Egyptian society that does not exclude any of its sons and currents and that end the state of conflict and division.\" He added the army was standing apart from the political process but was using its vision as the Egyptian people were calling for help and discharged its responsibility. Al-Sisi named former Chief Justice Adli Mansour as the interim president and added that he would be sworn in on 4 July. The Shura Council was also dissolved.\nMorsi condemned his removal as a \"full coup\" by the general. He also urged everyone to \"adhere to peacefulness and avoid shedding blood of fellow countrymen.\"\nThe Office of Assistant to President of Egypt on Foreign Relations called Morsi's removal a \"military coup\", and said \"there is no democracy without the ballot box\".\n\nThe announcement of the removal of Morsi was met with cheers in Tahrir Square. Anti-Morsi protesters shouted \"Allahu akbar\" and \"Long live Egypt\" and launched fireworks as green laser lights held by those in the crowd lit the sky. Mohamed el-Baradei says the coup was to rectify the issues of the revolution. The Coptic Pope Tawadros II, Grand Imam of al-Azhar Ahmed el-Tayeb, Mohamed ElBaradei and some of the youth leaders of Tamarod, Mahmoud Badr and Mohamed Abdelaziz, spoke in support of the military intervention. The al-Nour party also commented in saying that the events occurred as they were not heard in their call for dialogue. Party Secretary-General Galal Murra commented that: \"we took this position (on agreeing to the army political road map) and we took these decisions only so we stop the bloodshed of our people.\" Pro-Morsi protesters heard a statement from Morsi, which was published on his Facebook page. He called the move a \"coup\" and rejected the Armed Forces' statement.\n\nThe Freedom and Justice Party's Gamal Heshmat said: \"There is absolutely no direction towards violence. The Brotherhood are not raised on violence. Their cause is a peaceful one, defending their rights, which is stronger than a \"military coup\". The army has perpetrated a \"shameful coup\". We are still in the street, we still don't know if all of the armed forces will accept what Sisi has done.\" A party spokesman said that what started as a military coup was \"turning into something much more.\" The National Salvation Front, an alliance of multiple political parties, stated on 4 July that \"what Egypt is witnessing now is not a military coup by any standards. It was a necessary decision that the Armed Forces’ leadership took to protect democracy, maintain the country's unity and integrity, restore stability and get back on track towards achieving the goals of the January 25 Revolution.\"\n\nAccording to Morsi, he was kidnapped by the Armed Forces and held at the Republican Guard headquarters one day before the army announced his removal, and held there until 5 July 2013, after which he and his aide were forcibly moved to a naval base for the next four months. His family had stated earlier Morsi was kidnapped on 3 July 2013. The spokesperson of the Egyptian Armed Forces, Colonel Ahmed Ali later denied allegations that Morsi was badly treated, saying they had nothing to hide. The Egyptian Army later gave Catherine Ashton the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy for the European Union permission to meet Morsi. Ashton later stated that Morsi was doing well: \"Morsi was keeping up with the latest developments in the country through television and newspapers. So we were able to talk about the situation, and we were able to talk about the need to move forward. The people around him do care for him. I looked at the facilities.\" Morsi could later meet an African Union delegation too.\nThe army arrested the former speaker of parliament and the head of Freedom and Justice Party Saad El-Katatni, along with Rashad al-Bayoumi, a Muslim Brotherhood deputy, as well as other top leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood. \"Al-Jazeera\" quoted unnamed security officials saying that \"more than a dozen\" members of the Muslim Brotherhood had been arrested, while \"Al-Ahram\" reported that the Egyptian police had been ordered to arrest more than 300 members of the Muslim Brotherhood. A travel ban was also put on Morsi, the head of his Muslim Brotherhood Mohammed Badie, Badie's deputy Khairat El-Shater, the Muslim Brotherhood's former leader Mahdi Akef, another Muslim Brotherhood figure Mohamed Beltagy, Salafi preacher close to the Muslim Brotherhood Safwat Hegazi and the leader of the al-Wasat Party Abou Elela Mady and his deputy Essam Sultan. Badie and Akef were arrested for \"incitement to murder.\"\n\nFollowing Morsi's ouster, pro-Morsi supporters still gathered in Cairo said that they would undo the \"coup\" and continued their allegiance to Morsi saying that they would \"defend the integrity of the ballot box.\" Amidst threats of violence, \"Al Jazeera English\" reported the death of four people from a Muslim Brotherhood stronghold near the Libyan border.\n\nIn December 2013, Morsi as well as high-echelon Muslim Brotherhood leaders were charged with \"terrorism and plotting with foreign militants against Egypt\" while the Muslim brotherhood was officially classified as a terrorist group.\n\nBy May 2014, approximately 16,000 people, mostly Brotherhood members or supporters, have been imprisoned since the coup.\n\nPolice and military forces made statements against four television channels and took them off the air. Misr 25, a channel owned by the Muslim Brotherhood, was shut down and officials said that journalists working for the channel were arrested. The Al Hafez and Al Nas channels were shut down as well. A few hours later, \"Al Jazeera\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s \"Mubasher Misr\", which had been criticised for its alleged pro-Morsi slant, was also taken off the air, its offices raided and its employees detained. Five staff were arrested, including managing director Ayman Gaballah, who was still in custody after the others were released. It was also prevented from broadcasting a pro-Morsi rally in northern Cairo. \"Associated Press Television News\" was ordered not to provide \"Al Jazeera\" with footage of protests in the country or with any filming equipment, while the \"Cairo News Company\" was warned against providing broadcasting equipment. Al Jazeera Media Network's acting Director General Mostafa Souag condemned the move, saying \"regardless of political views, the Egyptian people expect media freedoms to be respected and upheld. Media offices should not be subject to raids and intimidation. Journalists should not be detained for doing their jobs.\"\n\nThe Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) reported that two journalists and one student were killed while covering Egyptian unrest in the two weeks leading up to 8 July 2013. According to CPJ research, before those deaths only four journalists had been killed in Egypt since 1992. One of the journalists killed while documenting the 2013 clashes was 26-year-old photographer Ahmed Assem el-Senousy, also known as Ahmed Samir Assem. The photographer was shot by a sniper after he recorded security forces firing on protestors. According to media reports, el-Senousy may have captured his own death on film. A video clip posted on his Facebook page shows a sniper firing on crowds before turning toward the camera, at which point the clip abruptly ends.\n\nWhile reporting for the BBC, journalist Jeremy Bowen was hit in the head with birdshot fired by Egyptian security forces on 5 July.\n\nOn 4 July, violence continued with over 100 people wounded and at least two deaths, believed to be that of children. The Muslim Brotherhood's spokesman called for \"strictly peaceful\" protests to defy the \"military coup\". Other Islamist groups threatened armed retaliation, while the police arrested four armed men on 5 July over claims that they had planned a reprisal attack, according to state-run \"Al-Ahram\". The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces added that it would protect all groups from revenge attacks and that Egyptian values \"do not allow for gloating.\"\n\nProtests after Friday prayers were called by Morsi supporters, now in opposition, and termed \"Rejection Friday.\" That morning, troops opened fire killing at least 51 pro-Morsi protesters at the Republican Guard headquarters in which Morsi was believed to be held. According to some witnesses, the military opened fire without provocation towards the end of morning prayers, immediately using live ammunition and shooting to kill. At least 51 Morsi supporters were killed and 435 were injured. Though the Egyptian Army denied firing at the protesters, \"BBC News\" reporter Jeremy Bowen said he saw soldiers firing on protesters. In Qena, security forces opened fire on protesters trying to storm a security building, injuring two of them. Shots were also fired in Alexandria. This occurred as tens of thousands of Egyptians took to the street to condemn the coup and support Morsi. Despite claiming to respect all sides, the military also issued a statement warning Islamists who planned on protesting. Tamarod, which had organised anti-Morsi protests, called for protests to \"protect the revolution.\" During the night pro and anti-Morsi demonstrators clashed over the 6th October Bridge; at least two people were killed and more than 70 people were injured, according to state television, who quoted medical personnel at a makeshift hospital in the square. At least three deaths were that of Morsi supporters during the march towards the military barracks after the Friday prayer in Cairo. In all, through the night of rioting, throughout the country 30 people were killed. Pro-Morsi demonstrators continued to call for protests. Protesters continued to demand the reinstatement of Morsi throughout the weekend, some of which were violent protests.\n\nPalestinian officials in Gaza also said that the Egyptian Armed Forces had shut the Rafah border crossing and that only certain people, such as patients and students, would be allowed through. Egyptian Intelligence Service official Nader al-Asar telephoned Palestinian Prime Minister in Gaza Ismail Haniyeh on the afternoon of 5 July and Haniyeh briefed him about the humanitarian crisis in Gaza as a result of the restrictions on tunnels and the Rafah crossing. Al-Asar promised to seek remedies on the situation\n\nAfter dawn prayers on 8 July clashes erupted between pro-Morsi protesters and the army at the Republican Guard compound. According to the army, \"terrorists\" tried to storm the compound and one officer and 42 other people were injured. On the other hand, the Muslim Brotherhood said that 42 of its supporters were killed and over 300 were injured after shootings that followed the police storming their peaceful sit-in demanding the reinstatement of Morsi. MP Mohamed Beltagy described the incident as a \"massacre\" during dawn prayers. After the incident, the Freedom and Justice Party, called for \"the international community and international groups and all the free people of the world [to] intervene to stop further massacres [...] and prevent a new Syria in the Arab world.\" The Nour party said it would suspend taking part in the political process as a response to the deadly clashes. And Ahmed el-Hawary, a founding member of the al-Dustour party and a member of 30 June front, said: \"We cannot blame the Muslim Brotherhood without blaming the army. They are both held accountable for this catastrophe...The Brotherhood is playing victims to gain international sympathy yet losing whatever is left of the sympathy at home. A speedy formation of the new cabinet is essential at this point, and although consensus is critical. Egypt must not be the hostage of a concurrence based on non-pertinent arguments.\" At the same time, Morsi supporters were said by the military of having forced two soldiers, Samir Abdallah Ali and Azzam Hazem Ali, to make pro-Morsi statements on a loudspeaker and that one of them was \"severely beaten up\" and filmed while making the statements. However, an army official later said that they had \"managed to escape their captors.\"\n\nOn 8 July, following reports that many fighters in Syria were returning in support of the Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt slapped restrictions on Syrians entering the country and required them to obtain visas before entering the country. An arrest warrant was issued against Mohamed Badie also as the party refused to join a transitional government. The Investigative Reporting Program at the University of California at Berkeley showed that a State Department programme ostensible to support democracy provided funds to activists and politicians for fomenting unrest in Egypt after the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak in February 2011. The Muslim Brotherhood vowed to continue its resistance to the military's ouster of Morsi. In a statement it disavowed itself from an assassination attempt against a senior army commander in the Sinai Peninsula on 10 July and said it adheres to peaceful measures. The statement also read: \"We will continue our peaceful resistance to the bloody military coup against constitutional legitimacy. We trust that the peaceful and popular will of the people shall triumph over force and oppression.\" The public prosecutor issued a freeze on the assets of the Muslim Brotherhood's leaders, as well as other supporters pending investigations in ongoing cases related to events in al-Mokatam, al-Nahda square and the Republican Guards Club. This would affect Mohamed Badie, Khairat al-Shater, Mohamed Ezat, Mahi Ekef, Saed ElKatatni, Essam ElErian, Mohamed ElBeltagy and the Muslim Brotherhood's allies, including Essam Sultan, Assem Abdul Majed, Safwat Hegazy and Hazem Abu Ismail, will also be affected by the freeze.\n\nIn addition to continuing daily protests, the Muslim Brotherhood called for more protests after Friday prayers on 19 July. The protests were held in Cairo and Alexandria with two formations of fighter jets flying over both cities after noon prayers ended and some military helicopters flew low over roof tops in Cairo. Amongst the tens of thousands of protesters present, they chanted \"Islamic, Islamic\" calling for an Islamic state. The protests again turned violent and fatal in Cairo and Qalyoub on 22 July. Morsi's family also held a press conference in Cairo in which his children accused the military of kidnapping him, as well as announcing local and international legal measures they had initiated against General Abdul Fatah al-Sisi.\n\nIn mid-August, the violence against Islamists by the army escalated further, with at least hundreds killed, and the government declaring a month-long nighttime curfew.\n\nFollowing the mid-August incidents and the imposition of a state of emergency, security forces targeted the Brotherhood and its allies with a wave of arrests of leaders and senior members.\n\nOn 14 August 2013, Egyptian security forces raided two camps of protesters in Cairo: one at al-Nahda Square and a larger one at Rabaa al-Adawiya Mosque. The two sites had been occupied by supporters of ousted President Mohamed Morsi, who was removed from office by the military after mass street protests against him. The camps were raided after initiatives to end the six-week sit-ins failed and as a result of the raids the camps were cleared out within hours.\n\nThe Interior Minister Mohamed Ibrahim announced that police used water hoses to disperse the campers. Yet, all videos and photos from the scenes of the raids never showed water or hoses. Tents and bodies were on fire, and the main mosque of Rabaa Al-Adawiya was burned with hundreds of unidentified bodies.\n\nAccording to the Egyptian Health Ministry, 638 people were killed on 14 August, of which 595 were civilians and 43 police officers, with at least 3,994 injured. However, the Muslim brotherhood and National Coalition for Supporting Legitimacy (NCSL) put the number of deaths from the Rabaa al-Adawiya Mosque sit-in alone at some 2,600. Violent retaliation followed in several cities across the country. The interim government declared a month-long state of emergency in response and curfews were instituted in many areas. The total casualty count made 14 August the deadliest day since the 2011 Egyptian revolution which toppled Morsi's predecessor Hosni Mubarak. The clashes between the police and some armed protestors were widely denounced by world leaders, with the exception of Gulf Arab states: the U.A.E., Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, and potential GCC member Jordan.\n\nA study conducted by the Egyptian Centre for Media Studies and Public Opinion revealed that 79% of Egyptians believe the massacres on 14 August were crimes against humanity. 73% hold General Al Sisi, the Defence Minister, responsible for the massacres . Another poll by Egyptian Centre for Public Opinion Research later showed that 67 percent of Egyptians were satisfied about the method in which the Rabaa al-Adaweya and Nahda sit-ins were dispersed.\n\nOn 10 December, thirteen Egyptian and international human rights organizations urged Cairo's interim authorities to probe the mass killing of protesters in the capital on 14 August. The joint call issued by organizations that included Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, said an investigation must be launched into the killing of \"up to 1,000 people by security forces\" almost four months ago when they dispersed sit-ins by supporters of deposed president Mohamed Morsi. \"There can be no hope for the rule of law and political stability in Egypt, much less some modicum of justice for victims, without accountability for what may be the single biggest incident of mass killing in Egypt's recent history,\" said Gasser Abdel-Razak, associate director at the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights. \"As a first step toward accountability, the government should establish an effective independent fact-finding committee to investigate responsibility throughout the chain of command for the unlawful killings,\" the rights groups said. They said that on 14 August a \"small minority of protesters used firearms... but the police responded excessively by shooting recklessly, going far beyond what is permitted under international law.\" \"After the unprecedented levels of violence and casualties seen since the ousting of Mohamed Morsi, investigations must provide real answers and cannot be another whitewash of the security forces' record,\" Hassiba Hadj Sahraoui of Amnesty International said in the statement. \"Egypt's authorities cannot deal with the carnage through PR in world's capitals, rewriting events and locking up Morsi's supporters.\" The groups also said the probe should determine whether there is any evidence of a policy to kill protesters or commit other serious crimes.\n\nSince Morsi's overthrow, Egypt's Christian minority, a reported 6 to 12% of the population, have been the target of sectarian divide tactics by unidentified groups. On 5 July 2013 — two days after Morsi was ousted— mobs rampaged through the Christian village of Nagaa Hassan, burning over seventy churches, as well as burning dozens of homes, ransacking stores and stabbing to death at least four people. This included, pro-military Christian activist Emile Naseem, who was hacked and beaten to death. Dozens of Christian families sought protection in a local church.\n\nIn Port Said's al-Manakh, masked gunmen opened fire at the Mar Mina Church. Since 30 June, mobs carried out attacks on Christians in six out of Egypt's twenty-seven provinces. Churches across Egypt have cancelled their evening Mass and social activities. Other incidents include Coptic Christian priest Mina Abboud Sharobeen being killed in an outdoor market.\n\nRamy Jan, a Christian journalist and activist, claims that Islamic violence against Copts is rather fabricated and that Muslims would not commit any type of sectarian violence. He considered all previously-mentioned incidents as \"accusations\" to Islamists, to which he reacted by starting the Christians Against the Coup movement in demand of \"reestablishing democracy\", joining with his movement the Anti-Coup Alliance. However, Jan's credibility and that of the group he supposedly represented was severely challenged when it was revealed that he was also in fact a member of the Egyptian Nazi Party.\n\nBack in 2011, Egypt opened a probe on former Interior Minister Habib el-Adly's reported role in the New Year's Eve bombing of al-Qiddissin Church in Alexandria in which 24 people were killed. According to the UK diplomatic sources quoted in the reports, the former interior ministry had masterminded the deadly church attack with the intent to blame it on Islamists, escalate government crackdown on them, and gain increased western support for the regime.\nThe former interior minister had built up in over six years a special security system that was managed by 22 officers and that employed a number of former radical Islamists, drug dealers and some security firms to carry out acts of sabotage around the country in case the regime was under threat to collapse. The proclamation also pointed, sourcing reports on UK intelligence services, that interior ministry officer Maj. Fathi Abdelwahid began on 11 December 2011 preparing Ahmed Mohamed Khaled, who had spent 11 years in Egyptian prisons, to contact an extremist group named Jundullah and coordinate with it the attack on the Alexandria church. Khaled reportedly told the group he could assist with providing weapons he had allegedly obtained from Gaza and that the act was meant to \"discipline the Copts.\" \n\nThe day after the coup, militant gunmen staged multiple attacks on security forces in the Sinai and Suez. One soldier was killed and two others were wounded at a police station near the local headquarters of military intelligence in Rafah as it was attacked by rocket fire. Attackers also fired rocket-propelled grenades at army checkpoints guarding El Arish airport. A protest by hundreds of people occurred in Al-Arish the day after the ouster with calls to form a war council to combat the army. Ten areas in north Sinai were witness to clashes, including the Central Security Force camp and a number of checkpoints along the ring road. The airport was also closed after being targeted by unidentified armed men.\n\nIn late July 2013 the Egyptian military reportedly launched \"Operation Sinai\" in an effort to quash the militants.\n\nAccording to the official results 38.6% of eligible voters participated in a referendum held on 14–15 January 2014 on a new constitution; 98.1% of those who voted supported the new constitution.\n\nAmid months of protests, and after his trial had started, Morsi said on 13 November that he was kidnapped by the military the day before his removal and that the move was treason.\n\nA poll by baseera shows 17% of Egyptians believe that the sit-ins were peaceful, while 67% believe they were not. Another poll by baseera shows 69% of Egyptians do not approve of the Muslim Brotherhood's continuation (in politics), 57% of Egyptians feel the Muslim Brotherhood is responsible for all instances of violence since the sit-in dispersals.\n\n\nThe military was asked to intervene by millions and millions of people, all of whom were afraid of a descendance into chaos, into violence. And the military did not take over, to the best of our judgement – so far. To run the country, there's a civilian government. In effect, they were restoring democracy.\n\n\nSyrian state-television carried live coverage of the anti-Morsi protests. It also said of the statement that \"Syria's people and leadership and army express their deep appreciation for the national, populist movement in Egypt which has yielded a great achievement.\"\n\nThe United States media pointed out that Obama did not call the removal of Morsi a coup. If Obama accepts that a coup had taken place, then U.S. law requires him to cut off military and economic aid to Egypt such as previous incidents in Mauritania, Mali, Madagascar and Pakistan. The U.S. funds 20% of Egypt's military costs (US$1.3 billion) and gives another US$250 million in economic aid. \"Al Jazeera\" noted that the refusal to term the events as a coup were tied with the U.S. stance in stopping military aid to countries that have perpetrated a coup.\n\nThe media noted that the U.K. did not condemn the removal of Morsi, nor call for him to be restored to power. Some media reports refer to the events as another \"revolution\" and there has been debate as to whether events are best named as being a coup or not.\n\nEgyptian Americans, particularly in the Arab-dominated areas of Michigan, had mixed views of the event with some wary of the Muslim Brotherhood, but also wary of usurping democratic rights following a 30-year dictatorship.\n\nAmnesty International has called on foreign governments to stop supplying further arms to the country.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1869512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1869512", "title": "A-ca-oo-mah-ca-ye", "text": "A-ca-oo-mah-ca-ye\n\nAckomokki or A-ca-oo-mah-ca-ye, also known as Old Swan, was the name of three Siksiká chiefs between the late 1700s and 1860.\n\nThe first Ackomokki (d. January 1795) was known as a peacemaker who was open to trade with Europeans. By the time Ackomokki was chief, the Blackfoot/Plains Confederacy had consolidated power throughout he plains of what is modern-day Montana, Alberta, and western Saskatchewan.\n\nAckomokki's son was known to fur traders as \"Feathers\" (or \"Painted Feathers\"), but after his father's death he took on his father's name, \"Old Swan\" (or \"Ackomokki\" in Blackfoot), although Europeans continued to call him \"Feathers\" or \"Many Swans\" to distinguish him from his father. The younger Ackomokki (d. 1814), like his father, worked to preserve peace among his people and the neighboring Cree and Assiniboine peoples, as well as with European traders. In 1800, Ackomokki allowed the Hudson's Bay Company to establish the Chesterfield House trading post within the Blackfoot's wintering grounds at the confluence of the Red Deer and South Saskatchewan Rivers. However, changes in the balance of power between the Blackfoot and neighboring tribes brought on in part by westward expansion of U.S. traders lead to increasing conflicts and military decline for the Siksika.\n\nAround 1801, the younger Ackomokki drew for Hudson Bay Company surveyor Peter Fidler a detailed map of the lands around the Upper Missouri, including names of rivers, mountains, and peaks and travel time between them and information about 32 tribes populating the region. These drawings were later incorporated into the 1802 edition of Aaron Arrowsmith's map of the Interior Parts of North America. Ackomokki's maps included significant details about the topography and inhabitants of the area, which proved helpful in expanding the Hudson's Bay Company activities in the region.\n\nA third Old Swan (d. 1859/1860), possibly a son or nephew of the younger Ackomokki, assumed leadership of what was called by Europeans \"Old Feathers' Band\" by 1822. He was described in 1858 by Dr. James Hector as one of the principal chiefs of the Blackfoot Confederacy, and, in July 1859, the Palliser Expedition were his guests at his encampment on the Red Deer River.\n"}
{"id": "23215143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23215143", "title": "Abu'l-Khattar al-Husam ibn Darar al-Kalbi", "text": "Abu'l-Khattar al-Husam ibn Darar al-Kalbi\n\nAbu'l-Khattar al-Husam ibn Darar al-Kalbi () was Umayyad governor of Al-Andalus from May 743 until August 745. He was succeeded by Tuwaba ibn Salama al-Gudami.\n\nHe was taken prisoner by the Ma'addites at the Battle of Secunda in 747 whilst trying to re-assert his right to rule against the challenge of Yusuf ibn 'Abd al-Rahman al-Fihri.\n\n"}
{"id": "27713678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27713678", "title": "Advocacy of suicide", "text": "Advocacy of suicide\n\nAdvocacy of suicide has occurred in many cultures and subcultures. Confucianism holds that one should give up one's life, if necessary, either passively or actively, for the sake of upholding the cardinal moral values of \"ren\" (altruism) and \"yi\" (righteousness). The Japanese military during World War II encouraged and glorified kamikaze attacks, and Japanese society as a whole has been described as suicide 'tolerant' (see Suicide in Japan).\n\nAdvocacy of suicide has also taken place over the Internet. A study by the \"British Medical Journal\" found that Web searches for information on suicide are likely to return sites that encourage, and even facilitate, suicide attempts. While pro-suicide resources were less frequent than neutral or anti-suicide sites, they were nonetheless easily accessible. There is some concern that such sites may push the suicidal over the edge. Some people form suicide pacts with people they meet online. Becker writes, \"Suicidal adolescent visitors risk losing their doubts and fears about committing suicide. Risk factors include peer pressure to commit suicide and appointments for joint suicides. Furthermore, some chat rooms celebrate chatters who committed suicide.\"\n\nWilliam Francis Melchert-Dinkel, 47 years old in May 2010, from Faribault, Minnesota, a licensed nurse from 1991 until February 2009, stands accused of encouraging people to commit suicide while he watched voyeuristically on a webcam. He allegedly told these contemplating suicide what methods worked best, that it was okay to commit suicide, that they would be better in heaven, and/or entered into suicide pacts with them. Melchert-Dinkel was charged with two counts of assisting suicide, for allegedly encouraging the suicides of a person in Britain in 2005 and another person in Canada in 2008.\n\nSuzy's Law would, in the US, ban sites that provide information on suicide methods or otherwise assist suicide. There have been some legal bans on pro-suicide web sites, most notably in Australia, but arguably such bans merely increase awareness of such sites and encourage site owners to move their sites to different jurisdictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "55258300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55258300", "title": "Anne van Aaken", "text": "Anne van Aaken\n\nAnne Sophia-Marie van Aaken (born April 19, 1969 in Bonn, Germany) is a German lawyer and economist, who is a full Professor of Law and Economics, Legal Theory, Public International Law and European Law at the University of Hamburg.\n\nVan Aaken completed her Abitur in Bonn. From 1987 to 1992 she studied economics with the degree of Lic. pole. and communication sciences with the degree dipl. journ. at the University of Friborg and then from 1992 to 1997 law at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich. There she graduated in 1997 with a first state examination First Juristische Staatsexamen. Van Aaken was a visiting scholar at the University of California, Berkeley, and Yale University in 1997 and 1998. At the University of Frankfurt an der Oder, van Aaken was promoted Doctor of Law Dr. iur. (Doctor iuris) with the Dissertation, \"Rational Choice in Law. On the value of economic theory in law.\" () She graduated from the Second Legal State Exam in 2002 and since 2003 she has been admitted to the bar in Bonn. Her habilitation took place in 2012 at the University of Osnabrück.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2000 van Aaken worked as a research assistant in the field of economic policy at the University of Fribourg, then to 2003 as a research associate at the chair of German, European and international civil and commercial law and Institutional Economics at the Humboldt University of Berlin. After that, van Aaken was a senior researcher at the Max Planck Institute of Public International Law in Heidelberg, from which she moved in 2005 to the Max Planck Institute for Research on Collective Goods in Bonn. In 2010/2011, she was also a fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study, Berlin.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2012 van Aaken was the Max Schmidheiny-Stiftung Tenure track professor of law and economics, Public law, international and European law. From 2012 to 2018 she held a chair for Law and Economics, Legal Theory, International and European Law at the University of St. Gallen. In 2017, van Aaken won an Alexander von Humboldt-Professorship in Germany, at the University of Hamburg.\n\nVan Aaken was vice-president of the European Association of Law and Economics (2009 – 2014) and vice-president of the European Society of International Law (2014-2017). From 2012 to 2015, she was the Chairman of the programmatic Steering Board of The Hague Institute for Internationalisation of Law. She is a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of the European Journal of International Law and a member of the editorial board of the American Journal of International Law, International Theory and the Journal of International Economic Law. She is also a member of the Research Council of the European University Institute in Florence. She has taught in Latin America, Asia, Africa, and the United States (at NYU as a Global Law Professor).\n\n"}
{"id": "33656952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33656952", "title": "Antonia Brough", "text": "Antonia Brough\n\nAntonia Brough (May 18, 1897 – November 4, 1937) British actress born in Chelsea, London, England; Died in Kensington, England.\n\n"}
{"id": "430593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430593", "title": "Candido Portinari", "text": "Candido Portinari\n\nCandido Portinari (December 29, 1903 – February 6, 1962) was a Brazilian painter. He is considered one of the most important Brazilian painters as well as a prominent and influential practitioner of the neo-realism style in painting.\n\nPortinari painted more than five thousand canvases, from small sketches to monumental works such as the Guerra e Paz panels, which were donated to the United Nations Headquarters in 1956. Portinari developed a strong social preoccupation throughout his oeuvre and maintained an active life in the Brazilian cultural and political worlds.\n\nBorn to Giovan Battista Portinari and Domenica Torquato, Italian immigrants from Chiampo, Veneto, in a coffee plantation near Brodowski, in São Paulo. Growing up on a coffee plantation of dark soil and blue sky, Portinari gained his inspiration from the homeland he loved. In the majority of his later paintings, murals and frescoes, he used the color blue and lots of browns and reds because this was the color of his home. \n\nOne of Portinari’s beginner jobs was drawing photographs where he closely captured the exact image using paints and then enlarging the photos. These sold successfully because the resemblance was astounding. Portinari then studied at the Escola Nacional de Belas Artes National School of Fine Arts) in Rio de Janeiro. In 1928 he won a gold medal at the ENBA and a trip to Paris where he stayed until 1930, when he returned to Brazil. He traveled to Europe again, finally returning to Brazil in 1933. These visits significantly influenced Portinari. Portinari studied various European artwork, visited museums and during his travels met his future wife, Maria Martinelli. Throughout his time traveling, he didn’t paint much but studied and possibly seeing life elsewhere, hoped to better his homeland as well. He came back to Brazil fully set on conveying the true Brazilian lifestyle and capturing the pain and struggles of his people through his art.\n\nAfter his return, Portinari began portraying the reality of Brazil, from its natural beauties to the harsh lives of the country's most impoverished populations, pursuing an amalgamation of his academic formation with the modernist avant-gardes. Portinari remained himself and didn’t allow his new experiences and new outlooks change him. His roots remained important to him and he strove to portray this in his paintings; the true Brazilian spirit. He wanted the world to see the harsh reality of living conditions in Brazil and the struggle for survival. Strength, hard work, independence and authenticity shows through in almost every one of his works. \n\nIn 1939, Portinari exposed at the New York World's Fair. In the following year, Portinari had for the first time a canvas exposed at the Museum of Modern Art. The rise of fascism in Europe, the wars and the close contact with Brazilian problematic society, reaffirmed the social character of his work, as well as conducting him to political engagement.\n\nHe joined the Brazilian Communist Party and stood for deputy in 1945 and for senator in 1947, but had to flee for Uruguay due to the persecution of communists during the government of Eurico Gaspar Dutra. In 1951, the first São Paulo Art Biennial dedicated a special room for his works. He returned to Brazil in the following year, after a declaration of general amnesty from the government. In 1956, after the United Nations had appealed to its affiliated countries for the donation of a work of art to the organization's new headquarters. Brazil designated Portinari for the task, who took four years and around 180 studies to complete the painting. Dag Hammarskjöld, UN Secretary-General, named the work \"the most important monumental work of art donated to the UN\".\n\nEven after being warned by the doctor of the risks of the toxins and poisoning, he didn’t give up and continued to paint. Portinari suffered from ill health during the last decade of his life. He died in Rio de Janeiro in 1962 in result of lead poisoning from his paints.\n\nOn December 20, 2007, his painting \"\" was stolen from the São Paulo Museum of Art along with Pablo Picasso's \"Portrait of Suzanne Bloch\". The paintings remained missing until January 8, 2008, when they were recovered in Ferraz de Vasconcelos by the Police of São Paulo. The paintings were returned, undamaged, to the São Paulo Museum of Art.\n\nThere were a number of commemorative events in the centenary of his birth in 2003, including an exhibition of his work in London.\n\nPortinari's works comprehend a strong will to represent Brazilian people and their traits. Portinari himself said he would \"paint that people with that clothing and that color\". According to Antonio Callado, Portinari's oeuvre demonstrate a \"monumental book of art which teaches Brazilians to love more their land\".\n\nPortinari was capable of transcending his original academic formation by experiencing with and absorbing modernist techniques and styles, which fundamentally created his painting personality. The range and sweep of his output includes paintings depicting rural and urban labour, refugees fleeing the hardships of Brazil's rural north-east; and, despite these major and better known aspects of his work, treatments of the key events in the history of Brazil since the arrival of the Portuguese in 1500, images of childhood, portraits of members of his family and leading Brazilian intellectuals, illustrations for books and tiles decorating the Church of São Francisco at Pampulha, Belo Horizonte.\n\nHis career coincided with and included collaboration with Oscar Niemeyer amongst others. Portinari's works can be found in galleries and settings in Brazil and abroad, ranging from the family chapel in his childhood home in Brodowski to his panels \"Guerra e Paz\" (War and Peace) in the United Nations building in New York and four murals in the Hispanic Reading Room of the Library of Congress in Washington, DC.\n\nAs previously mentioned, Candido Portinari came from a poor immigrant family. This allowed him to have a unique perspective on Brazilian culture and what it meant to truly Brazilian. This is important because he was a prominent artist during the Brazilian Modernism era. As such, his perspective gave a more proud and dignified view of the workers at that time. While other artists like Lasar Segall with \"Bananal\" and Tarsila do Amaral with \"Workers\" provided a picture of the workers that removed personality and made each individual anonymous, Portinari did the opposite. For example, in his painting, \"The Mestizo\", he paints a character that looks strong, competent, and noble. In this, he is demonstrating that the workers were not broken. Instead, they were proud and independent. Portinari used his culture and life experience to add to the explanation of what Brazil is in a distinctive style.\n\nIn \"Cocoa (1938)\" Portinari depicts workers on the coffee plantations. A woman is seen in the back balancing a crate on her head and there is a child in the painting. This was meant to signify that children were present during this hard work as well, and were encouraged to help the parents. Land was given to families in return for their labor on the plantations where they took care of their share. Here too is included the use of blues and oranges to truly capture the significance of Brazil, which was Portinari’s desire. This artwork was described by saying “Brazil is being rescued from obscurity by ‘Portinari’s Coffee’.”\n\n\"Coffee (National Museum of Fine Arts, 1935)\" represents strong and resourceful workers. Their big hands and feet show they were strong and did not fear hard work. The people worked together to preserve their lands and survive. This painting is also a great depiction of “realism” because of how he captures his people with the short bodies, rounder heads and the brown and red hues of the land.\n\nIn \"The Mestizo (1934)\" he tries to present not just a portrait but an individual type of person. Portinari shows that Brazilian workers were tough and proud of their work because in the background of the \"Mestizo\" are seen the fields and all their hard work; his proud stance portrays confidence and strength. \n\n\"War and Peace\" (Guerra and Paz; Palácio Gustavo Capanema in Rio de Janeiro; 1952-56) was a mural created when the United Nations asked Brazil to donate a work of art. Portinari created two murals to show war, agony, fear and pain that showed how the people suffered and were affected during the war. His use of blue hues in \"War\" created a contrast between the lighter yellows in \"Peace\". The second was meant to express peace and happiness. Bento Antonio in his book \"Portinari\", describes this work as, “a sort of innocent vision of paradise.” With this mural, he also meant to connect different racial groups and show peace among the variety of individuals. There was a large variety of ethnicities that lived in Brazil at this time. His works were meant to create a bridge between the multicultural individuals. This work is located in the United Nations General Assembly building in New York which was created in remembrance to World War II and its horrors. It was meant to resemble something that should never occur again. Here, visitors come witnessing an epitome of war and leave realizing that peace is indeed attainable. “Guerra and Paz are the synthesis of an entire life committed to human beings. His painting, like his militant political views, spoke out against injustice, violence and misery in the world per his son, João Candido Portinari. \n\nIn the Hispanic Foundation of the Library of Congress, Washington D.C. are located four murals that Portinari did in 1941 depicting the struggles of the Hispanic Americans. \"Discovery of the Land, Entry into the Forest, Teaching of the Indians, and Discovery of Gold\" are all meant to represent the coming of the Spaniards and Portuguese to America and took him two months to complete with the help of his brother Luiz. The \"Discovery of the Land\" is meant to show common sailors that sailed the boats. \"Entry in the Forest\" is the “reminiscent of frescoes” where he also doesn’t fail to capture his style of enlarging the figures’ arms and legs to show their strength. In the \"Teaching of the Indians,\" Portinari tries to create a scene of a priest or Spanish “Jesuit father” with Indians and obvious unity. Also the presence of the red Brazilian soil. The last mural, \"Discovery of Gold\" the artist chooses to paint just a single boat and specific people to represent that they had found gold. The Brazilian government paid for Portinari to travel to Washington to create the murals and represent their country.\n\nPortinari once said, “I am the Son of the Red Earth. I decided to paint the Brazilian reality, naked and crude as it is.” Life in Brazil wasn’t easy for Portinari, especially considering he was never wealthy, but his desire to show proof of this reality is evident in all his artworks. Poor housing, inadequate nutrition, no education, little or no healthcare access and various diseases created desperate situations for the Brazilian people who struggled to survive. This led to Portinari’s desire to raise global awareness of the human pain which he tried to depict in almost every painting. \n\nPortinari also greatly affected the future Brazilian generation of artists, musicians, poets and composers. Having vastly traveled Europe, studying their art, their technique and styles, he came back to Brazil hoping to create his personal method and interpret his own style. Instead of continuing to imitate the European appearance, Portinari painted what he experienced and his life. Portinari’s works urged emerging artists to pursue their own, unique style particular to their lives, experiences and reality in their country. This is also another reason blues, reds, and oranges were so commonly used in his art; the colors of his homeland.\n\n\"Projeto Portinari,\" begun in 1979 is dedicated to Candido Portinari by his son Joao Candido to revive his works, make them more known and preserve the history. Not only was his son able to locate more than 5,000 paintings, he also found thousands of drawings, sketches, and documents related to Portinari’s life and travels and interactions.\nThe Catalogue Raisonné of Portinari’s complete works was published in 2004. It was the first Raisonné covering the complete works of a Latin American painter.\n“Projeto Portinari” also curated the first retrospective exhibition of Portinari’s oeuvre, at the “Museu de Arte de São Paulo - MASP”, in 1997.\n\nCandido Portinari name continues to be seen today. Rodovia Candido Portinari is a State highway located in Brazil in São Paulo.\n\n\"Paintings and murals\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6756579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6756579", "title": "Carnegie collection", "text": "Carnegie collection\n\nThe Carnegie Collection was a series of authentic replicas based on dinosaurs and other extinct prehistoric creatures, using fossils featured at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History as references. The line was produced by Florida-based company Safari Ltd., known for their hand-painted replicas, from 1989 to 2015.\n\nThe collection was first released in 1989, with seventeen models. The line has seen a steady stream of additions since that time, usually two or three each year. As of 2009, 70 models representing 49 species of dinosaurs and other prehistoric animals have been produced for the line, although several of these have been retired during the course of its run. Each of the models is hand-painted, ensuring that no two copies of the same model are identical. Each animal featured is authenticated by paleontologists using the scientific data available (although models are occasionally outdated by newer findings, see below). Most of the animals are designed at a 1:40 scale (where one inch on the model represents 40 inches on the real creature), although some models representing smaller creatures are built at a larger scale. Models in the collection range greatly in size from 24 inches long (original \"Diplodocus\") to only three inches long (original \"Dimetrodon\") with all shapes and sizes represented in-between. On the underside of each model is information detailing its name, year of initial production, and copyright information.\n\nThe models feature an informational hang tag providing scientific details about the animal represented by the replica. In some cases, the dinosaurs were packaged in cardboard display boxes, in which case a small booklet featuring information on each dinosaur featured in the collection was included in lieu of the hang tags. In some instances, two or three models would be packaged together in a box. Examples include \"Dimetrodon\" and \"Deinonychus\", \"Protoceratops\" and \"Euoplocephalus\", \"Apatosaurus\" and \"Apatosaurus\" Baby, \"Elasmosaurus\" and \"Mosasaurus\", and \"Australopithecus\" Male/Female pair and \"Smilodon\". The boxes are not often seen today, and most of the time the dinosaurs are found free of packaging. Also produced for the collection was a specially-designed display \"mountain\". The display featured multiple tiers upon which the pieces in the collection could be placed in a variety of creative ways. This display was touted primarily to retailers in order to encourage sales of the replicas, but the display has also become popular with collectors. A second display set was made in gray plastic that featured a volcano, but this design was short-lived.\n\nProduction of the Carnegie Collection concluded in March 2015, after a 28 year partnership.\n\nPrior to 1996, each model was cast from a grey material and covered in a coat of paint corresponding to the base color of the finished model. The details of the model were then painted onto this layer of paint, resulting in a loss of the finer sculpting detail due to the thickness of the paint on each finished model. Beginning in 1996, each model was cast from a pigmented material corresponding to the base color of the finished model. The details of the model were then painted directly onto this material, resulting in greater detail and a less shiny appearance. \n\nTo coincide with this change in production, eight models were retired between 1996 and 1997, and the sculpts of the remaining eighteen models were updated. Despite the modifications, the eighteen remaining models retained the same model numbers as their predecessors. This became the cause of some confusion as a single model number was used to refer to two versions of the same model, which was particularly noticeable with the new color schemes for \"Stegosaurus\", \"Triceratops\", and \"Pachycephalosaurus\". Colorful name tags were also designed and attached to each model in place of the original folded paper name tags. \n\nIn 2007, twelve more models received new color schemes. These models, however, did not retain the same model numbers as their predecessors. New model numbers were assigned to distinguish them as new versions.\n\n1989\n\n1990\n\n1991\n1992\n\n1993\n\n1994\n\n1995\n\n1996\n\n1997\n\n1998\n\n1999\n\n2000\n\n2001\n\n2002\n\n2003\n\n2004\n\n2005\n\n2006\n\n2007\n\n2008\n\n2009\n\n2010\n\n2011\n\n2012\n\n2013\n\n2014 \n\n2015\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11542642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11542642", "title": "Clement Woodnutt Miller", "text": "Clement Woodnutt Miller\n\nClement Woodnutt Miller (October 28, 1916 – October 7, 1962) was a U.S. Representative from California. \n\nHe was born in Wilmington, Delaware on October 28, 1916. \n\nMiller graduated from the Lawrenceville School, from Williams College, Williamstown, Massachusetts, in 1940, and briefly attended Cornell University School of Industrial and Labor Relations in 1946.\nEnlisted in the United States Army in 1940.\nHe served as a private in the Two Hundred and Fifty-eighth Field Artillery Regiment and was discharged in 1945 as a captain in the One Hundred and Fourth Infantry Division, with service in the Netherlands and Germany.\nVeterans service officer in Nevada in 1946 and 1947.\nEmployment service, State of Nevada, in 1947.\nField examiner and hearing officer of the National Labor Relations Board for Northern California 1948–1953.\nHe became a landscape consultant in 1954.\nHe was an unsuccessful Democratic candidate for election in 1956 to the Eighty-fifth Congress.\n\nMiller was elected as a Democrat to the Eighty-sixth and Eighty-seventh Congresses. Rep. Miller authored the legislation that established Point Reyes National Seashore.\n\nHe served in Congress from January 3, 1959, until his death in an airplane accident near Eureka, California on October 7, 1962. He was interred in Point Reyes National Seashore, north of San Francisco, California.\n\nHe was a grandson of Charles R. Miller and a nephew of Thomas W. Miller, and the grandfather of poet and rapper George Watsky.\n\nMiller was elected posthumously to the Eighty-eighth Congress.\n\nAuthor of the book \"Member of the House: Letters of a Congressman\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "62175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=62175", "title": "Crinoid", "text": "Crinoid\n\nCrinoids are marine animals that make up the class Crinoidea of the echinoderms (phylum Echinodermata). The name comes from the Greek word \"krinon\", \"a lily\", and \"eidos\", \"form\". They live in both shallow water and in depths as great as . Those crinoids which in their adult form are attached to the sea bottom by a stalk are commonly called sea lilies. The unstalked forms are called feather stars or comatulids.\n\nCrinoids are characterised by a mouth on the top surface that is surrounded by feeding arms. They have a U-shaped gut, and their anus is located next to the mouth. Although the basic echinoderm pattern of fivefold symmetry can be recognised, most crinoids have many more than five arms. Crinoids usually have a stem used to attach themselves to a substrate, but many live attached only as juveniles and become free-swimming as adults.\n\nThere are only about 600 extant crinoid species, but they were much more abundant and diverse in the past. Some thick limestone beds dating to the mid- to late-Paleozoic are almost entirely made up of disarticulated crinoid fragments.\n\nCrinoids comprise three basic sections; the stem, the calyx, and the arms. The stem is composed of highly porous ossicles which are connected by ligamentary tissue. The calyx contains the crinoid's digestive and reproductive organs, and the mouth is located at the top of the dorsal cup, while the anus is located peripheral to it. The arms display pentamerism or pentaradial symmetry and comprise smaller ossicles than the stem and are equipped with cilia which facilitate feeding by moving the organic media down the arm and into the mouth.\n\nThe majority of living crinoids are free-swimming and have only a vestigial stalk. In those deep-sea species that still retain a stalk, it may reach up to in length, although it is usually much smaller. The base of the stalk consists of a disc-like sucker, which, in some species, has root-like structures that further increase its grip on the underlying surface. The stalk is often lined by small cirri.\n\nLike other echinoderms, crinoids have pentaradial symmetry. The aboral surface of the body is studded with plates of calcium carbonate, forming an endoskeleton similar to that in starfish and sea urchins. These make the calyx somewhat cup-shaped, and there are few, if any, ossicles in the oral (upper) surface. The upper surface, or \"tegmen\", is divided into five \"ambulacral areas\", including a deep groove from which the tube feet project, and five \"interambulacral areas\" between them. The anus, unusually for echinoderms, is found on the same surface as the mouth, at the edge of the tegmen.\n\nThe ambulacral grooves extend onto the arms, which thus have tube feet along their inner surfaces. Primitively, crinoids had only five arms, but in most living species these are divided into two, giving ten arms in total. In most living species, especially the free-swimming feather stars, the arms branch several times, producing up to two hundred branches in total. The arms are jointed, and lined by smaller feather-like appendages, or \"pinnules\", which also include tube feet.\n\nCrinoids feed by filtering small particles of food from the sea water with their feather-like arms. The tube feet are covered with a sticky mucus that traps any food that floats past. Once they have caught a particle of food, the tube feet can flick it into the ambulacral groove, where the cilia are able to propel the stream of mucus towards the mouth. Generally speaking, crinoids living in environments with relatively little plankton have longer and more highly branched arms than those living in rich environments.\n\nThe mouth descends into a short oesophagus. There is no true stomach, so the oesophagus connects directly to the intestine, which runs in a single loop right around the inside of the calyx. The intestine often includes numerous diverticulae, some of which may be long or branched. The end of the intestine opens into a short muscular rectum. This ascends towards the anus, which projects from a small conical protuberance at the edge of the tegmen.\n\nSpecimens of the sea urchin \"Calocidaris micans\" present in a meadow of the crinoid \"Endoxocrinus parrae\", have been shown to contain large quantities of stem portions (or columnals) in the direct vicinity of living crinoids, some of which were upended. The gut content of the sea urchins consisted of articulated ossicles with soft tissue, whereas the local sediment contained only disarticulated ossicles without soft tissue. This makes it highly likely that these sea urchins are predators of the crinoids, and that the crinoids flee, offering part of their stem in the process.\n\nVarious crinoid fossils hint at possible prehistoric predators. Coprolites of both fish and cephalopods have been found containing ossicles of various crinoids, such as the pelagic crinoid \"Saccocoma\", from the Jurassic lagerstatten Solnhofen, while damaged crinoid stems with bite marks matching the toothplates of coccosteid placoderms have been found in Late Devonian Poland. The calyxes of several Devonian to Carboniferous-aged crinoids have the shells of a snail, \"Platyceras\", intimately associated with them. Some have the snail situated over the anus, suggesting that \"Platyceras\" was a coprophagous commensal, while others have the animal directly situated over a borehole, suggesting a more pernicious relationship.\n\nLike other echinoderms, crinoids possess a water vascular system that maintains hydraulic pressure in the tube feet. This is not connected to external sea water, as in other echinoderms, but only to the body cavity. The body cavity is itself somewhat restricted, being largely replaced by connective tissue, although it is present as narrow canals within the arms and stalk.\n\nCrinoids also possess a separate haemal system, consisting of fluid-filled sinuses within the connective tissue. There is a large plexus of sinuses around the oesophagus, with branches extending down to a mass of glandular tissue at the base of the calyx.\n\nThese various fluid-filled spaces, in addition to transporting nutrients around the body, also function as both a respiratory and an excretory system. Oxygen is absorbed primarily through the tube feet, which are the most thin-walled parts of the body, while waste is collected by phagocytic coelomocytes.\n\nThe crinoid nervous system is divided into three parts, with numerous connections between them. The uppermost portion is the only one homologous with the nervous systems of other echinoderms. It consists of a central nerve ring surrounding the mouth, and radial nerves branching into the arms. Below this lies a second nerve ring, giving off two brachial nerves into each arm. Both of these sets of nerves are sensory in nature, with the lower set supplying the pinnules and tube feet. The third portion of the nervous system lies below the other two, and is responsible for motor action. This is centred on a mass of neural tissue near the base of the calyx, and provides a single nerve to each arm and a number of nerves to the stalk.\n\nCrinoids are dioecious, with separate male and female individuals. They have no true gonads, producing their gametes from genital canals found inside some of the pinnules. The pinnules eventually rupture to release the sperm and eggs into the surrounding sea water. The fertilised eggs hatch to release a free-swimming vitellaria larva. The larva is barrel-shaped with rings of cilia running round the body, and a tuft of sensory hairs at the upper pole. In some cases females have been known to temporarily brood the larvae using chambers within the arms. While both feeding and non-feeding larvae exist among the four other extant echinoderm classes, all present day crinoids appears to be descendants from a surviving clade that went through a bottleneck after the Permian extinction, which had lost its feeding larval stage. The larva's free-swimming period lasts only for a few days before settling to the bottom and attaching itself to the underlying surface using an adhesive gland on its ventral surface. The larva then metamorphoses into a stalked juvenile. Even the free-swimming feather stars sometimes go through this stage, with the adult eventually breaking away from the stalk. Within 10 to 16 months the crinoid will be able to reproduce.\n\nMost modern crinoids, i.e., the feather stars, are free-swimming and lack a stem as adults. Examples of fossil crinoids that have been interpreted as free-swimming include \"Marsupitsa\", \"Saccocoma\" and \"Uintacrinus\". In 2005, a stalked crinoid was recorded pulling itself along the sea floor off the Grand Bahama Island. While it has been known that stalked crinoids move, before this recording the fastest motion of a crinoid was 0.6 metres/hour (2 ft/h) 0.0167 cm/s (centimeters per second). The 2005 recording showed a crinoid moving much faster, at a rate of 4-5 centimeters/second (144 to 180 meters per hour).\n\nIf one ignores the enigmatic \"Echmatocrinus\" of the Burgess Shale, the earliest known unequivocal crinoid groups date back to the Ordovician. There are two competing hypotheses pertaining to the origin of the group: the traditional viewpoint holds that crinoids evolved from within the blastozoans (the eocrinoids and their derived descendants, the blastoids and the cystoids), whereas the most popular alternative suggests that the crinoids split early from among the edrioasteroids. The debate is difficult to settle, in part because all three candidate ancestors share many characteristics, including radial symmetry, calcareous plates, and stalked or direct attachment to the substrate.\n\nThe crinoids underwent two periods of abrupt adaptive radiation; the first during the Ordovician, the other was during the early Triassic after they underwent a selective mass extinction at the end of the Permian period. This Triassic radiation resulted in forms possessing flexible arms becoming widespread; motility, predominantly a response to predation pressure, also became far more prevalent. This radiation occurred somewhat earlier than the Mesozoic marine revolution, possibly because it was mainly prompted by increases in benthic predation, specifically of echinoids. After the end-Permian extinction, crinoids never regained the morphological diversity they enjoyed in the Paleozoic; they employed a different suite of the ecological strategies open to them from those that had proven so successful in the Paleozoic.\n\nThe long and varied geological history of the crinoids demonstrates how well the echinoderms have adapted to filter-feeding. The fossils of other stalked filter-feeding echinoderms, such as blastoids, are also found in rocks of the Palaeozoic era. These extinct groups can exceed the crinoids in both numbers and variety in certain strata. However, none of these others survived the crisis at the end of the Permian period.\n\nSome fossil crinoids, such as \"Pentacrinites\", seem to have lived attached to floating driftwood and complete colonies are often found. Sometimes this driftwood would become waterlogged and sink to the bottom, taking the attached crinoids with it. The stem of \"Pentacrinites\" can be several metres long. Modern relatives of \"Pentacrinites\" live in gentle currents attached to rocks by the end of their stem. The largest fossil crinoid on record had a stem in length.\n\nIn 2012, three geologists reported they had isolated complex organic molecules from 340-million-year-old (Mississippian) fossils of multiple species of crinoids. Identified as \"resembl[ing ...] aromatic or polyaromatic quinones\", these are the oldest molecules to be definitively associated with particular individual fossils, as they are believed to have been sealed inside ossicle pores by precipitated calcite during the fossilization process.\n\nAccording to the World Register of Marine Species :\n\nThe phylogeny, geologic history, and classification of the Crinoidea was discussed by Wright et al. (2017). These authors presented new phylogeny-based and rank-based classifications based on results of recent phylogenetic analyses.\n\nRank-based classification of crinoid higher taxa according to Wright et al. (2017):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12809970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12809970", "title": "Cyberneticist", "text": "Cyberneticist\n\nA cyberneticist or a cybernetician is a person who practices cybernetics.\n\nHeinz von Foerster once told Stuart Umpleby that Norbert Wiener preferred the term \"cybernetician\" rather than \"cyberneticist\", perhaps because Wiener was a mathematician rather than a physicist.\nOn the other hand, Nicolas Rashevsky who began as a theoretical physicist, as well as Robert Rosen who began his career as a mathematician, regarded Neuro cybernetics—and more generally Biocybernetics—as fields closely allied to Mathematical Biology and Mathematical Biophysics in which control theory and dynamical system theories also play significant roles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57640074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57640074", "title": "Death of Sikhosiphi Rhadebe", "text": "Death of Sikhosiphi Rhadebe\n\nSikhosiphi \"Bazooka\" Rhadebe was the chairperson of the Amadiba Crisis Committee (ACC), an organisation campaigning against mining in Xolobeni in the Pondoland region of the Eastern Cape province of South Africa.\n\nHe was assassinated on 22 March 2016. The assassination was reported internationally and continues to be discussed in the South Africa media.\n\nPerth-based Mineral Commodities Limited (MRC), a mining company planning to min the area, denied any link to the murder.\n\nThere has been no arrest in connection with the murder. It has been claimed that the police sabotaged the investigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "17302821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17302821", "title": "Dense heterarchy", "text": "Dense heterarchy\n\nA dense heterarchy is a hierarchical organization in social insect colonies in which the higher levels affect the lower levels and lower levels eventually influence the higher levels. Individual ants within the colony network are likely to have many connections with one another – making the network denser and non-hierarchical. Because there is no highest level within a heterarchy but the heterarchy itself, control is decentralized (not controlled by the queen). Communication between individuals in a dense heterarchy occurs directly between individuals and through stigmergy. Feedback loops of communication can produce emergent properties not obvious when only examining singular activities or communication.\n"}
{"id": "13097619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13097619", "title": "Discovery District", "text": "Discovery District\n\nThe Discovery District is one of the commercial districts in Downtown Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It has a high concentration of hospitals and research institutions, particularly those related to biotechnology. The district is roughly bounded by Bloor Street on the north, Bay Street on the east, Dundas Street on the south, and Spadina Avenue on the west.\n\nThe area includes the main campus of the University of Toronto, as well as leading health-care facilities such as the Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto General Hospital, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto Rehabilitation Institute and the MaRS Discovery District. These buildings are concentrated along the section of University Avenue between Dundas and College Streets. An extension of the Discovery District is located at the southwest block of Kensington Market at the intersection of Dundas and Bathurst Streets, where the Krembil Research Institute of the Toronto Western Hospital is located.\n\nThis area was subdivided from three main 'park lot' estates: Macaulay Estate (to the east, became a residential district known as 'the Ward' until demolished), Elmsley Estate (redivided with the Macaulay Estate which was concentrated to the south. Elmsley estate is closely tied with the history of both the University of Toronto and the commercial district on Yonge Street) and the Powell Estate (became the 'University Park' now the University of Toronto)\n\nA short stretch of Gerrard Street West from Bay Street to LaPlante Avenue was referred to as Gerrard Village, a Bohemian Greenwich Village like area from the late 19th century to the early 1970s.\n\nThis area is referred to by Statistics Canada as census tract 5350035.00. According to the 2011 National Household Survey, 80% of the population surveyed reported an income of over $50 000 annually. This is almost 30% higher than the average provincial income. For the total 2011 population within the discovery district 395 people made between $30 000 ad $39 000 annually, 410 made between $40 000 and $49 000, and 2250 made over $50 000. The accuracy of these figures is questionable due to the National Household Survey being optional, and therefore wealthier people could possibly be over represented. But considering the location in the heart of downtown Toronto and the rapid expansion of condominium build ups, people would have to make more money to live here.\n\nStatistics Canada. National Household Survey 2011\n\nThe original plans for the Town of York (later City of Toronto) divided the City along Lot Street (Queen Street) with a street grid creating small urban 'town lots' to the south and large rectangular 'park lots' (farms) to the north. The 'park lots' along Lot St (Queen) were given to many of York's (Toronto's) most prominent families who had professions and sometimes even a separate house in the Town and generally did not farm; therefore they often did not clear their lots of the natural forest. As each 'park lot' extended in a rectangle from Lot Street (Queen) to what would become Bloor, most of the estate houses were built on the north side of Lot Street opposite the Town. Four 'park lots' (numbers 9 to 12) comprised the area north of Queen just across from the heart of Toronto between Yonge Street and just west of College Avenue (now University Ave). Three of the families occupying these lots built large estate homes all fairly far north of Lot St (Queen):\n\nThe situation of these lots just north of the town meant that this land was in high demand as the city outgrew its original boundaries south of Lot (Queen). As most Toronto streets started at Lot (Queen), the 'park lots' commanded impressive views into the town and many of the buildings that were built as the 'park lots' were subdivided by their owner, were impressive institutions such as Osgoode Hall (Upper Canada's Law Courts) still standing, built at the top of York Street by 1832 just two years before the Town of York became a City with the name Toronto. By the time Toronto became a city in 1834, the area south of Lot St (Queen) from the Garrison Creek to the Don River had all been subdivided and the four 'park lots' north of Lot St (Queen) were subdivided by their owners with the eastern lot (Macaulay's estate) becoming the first residential district north of Queen, the western lot (Powell's estate) becoming the 'University Park', gated parkland intended to become Toronto's University and the area between on the north side of Lot St (Queen) attracting various institutions and businesses.\n\nThe area just north of Lot St (Queen) became something of an institutional area with buildings such as the House of Industry (still standing), the Armoury (behind Osgoode Hall, now demolished for the University Avenue Court Houses) and the Eaton's Company store to the south (creating 'the cavern' with the Hudson Bay building on the south of Queen St) and the University of Toronto in the 'University Park' to the north which was gated at Queen St & College Ave (University Ave) and was largely forested. \n\nBy about 1900 there still remained a large residential district called 'The Ward' which became Toronto's first Chinatown but also attracted many attempts to have it demolished as it was economically depressed. At this time some of Toronto's oldest and most important institutions south of Queen were replaced with larger buildings north of Queen St such as Old City Hall (called 'New' City Hall at this time) at the top of Bay Street and the Ontario Parliament Building; Queen's Park on the University grounds at the top of College Avenue (renamed University Ave).\n\nPart of 'The Ward' had been demolished for the building of New City Hall (Now Old City Hall) and in the years after the first world war, several plans were made to more closely link the institutional area north of Queen with the older town to the south. Two plans in particular substantially changed this area although both ultimately collapsed with the Great Depression. University Avenue was extended south of Queen street although the street itself, formerly a large quiet street leading to Queen's Park and the 'University Park' was only slowly turned into the bustling Boulevard of towers and hospitals it is today, none of the Art Deco towers originally planned for the street were ever built. The second plan called for a new 'Federal Avenue' in the middle of the old town's grid (between Bay and York Streets) starting from the new Union Station north to a proposed Government complex on the north side of Queen. Many buildings in 'The Ward' were purchased by the government before the plan fell through. In the 1960s with the City of Toronto annexing the last independent municipalities, 'The Ward' was demolished and a new City Hall was built on the north side of Queen Street between what became Old City Hall and Osgoode Hall.\n\n"}
{"id": "44416635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44416635", "title": "Domestic violence in lesbian relationships", "text": "Domestic violence in lesbian relationships\n\nDomestic violence within lesbian relationships is the pattern of violent and coercive behavior in a female same-sex relationship wherein a lesbian or other non-heterosexual woman seeks to control the thoughts, beliefs, or conduct of her female intimate partner. In the case of multiple forms of domestic partner abuse, it is also referred to as lesbian battering.\n\nThe issue of domestic violence among lesbians has become a serious social concern, but the topic has often been ignored, both in academic analyses and in the establishment of social services for battered women.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Victimology and Crime Prevention\" states, \"For several methodological reasons – nonrandom sampling procedures and self-selection factors, among others – it is not possible to assess the extent of same-sex domestic violence. Studies on abuse between gay male or lesbian partners usually rely on small convenience samples such as lesbian or gay male members of an association.\" Some sources state that gay and lesbian couples experience domestic violence at the same frequency as heterosexual couples, while other sources state domestic violence among gay, lesbian, and bisexual individuals might be higher than that among heterosexual individuals, that gay, lesbian, and bisexual individuals are less likely to report domestic violence that has occurred in their intimate relationships than heterosexual couples are, or that lesbian couples experience domestic violence less than heterosexual couples do. By contrast, some researchers commonly assume that lesbian couples experience domestic violence at the same rate as heterosexual couples, and have been more cautious when reporting domestic violence among gay male couples.\n\nThe issue of domestic violence among lesbian couples may be underreported due to the social construction of gender roles that women are expected to play in society; violence perpetrated by women may be ignored due to beliefs that the male social construction itself is a primary source of violence. The social construction of women is characterized as passive, dependent, nurturing, and highly emotional, and the social construction of men is characterized as competitive, aggressive, strong, and even prone to violence. Due to forms of discrimination, homophobia, and heterosexism, and the belief that heterosexuality is normative within society, domestic violence has been characterized as being between the male perpetrator and the female victim. This contributes to the invisibility of all domestic violence perpetrated by women. Further, the fear of reinforcing negative stereotypes could lead some community members, activists, and victims to deny the extent of violence among lesbians. Social service agencies are often unwilling to assist victims of domestic violence perpetrated by women. Victims of domestic violence in lesbian relationships are less likely to have the case prosecuted within a legal system.\n\nIn an effort to overcome the denial of domestic violence in lesbian relationships, advocates for abused women often concentrate on similarities between homosexual and heterosexual domestic violence. The main goal of activists is to legitimize lesbian domestic violence as real abuse and validate the experience of its victims.\n\nLiterature and research regarding domestic violence in lesbian relationships is relatively limited, especially in the United States, United Kingdom, and Australia. Many different factors play into this, such as \"different definitions of domestic violence, non-random, self selected and opportunistic sampling methods (often organisation or agency based, or advertising for participants who have experienced violence) and different methods and types of data collected\". This causes results to be unreliable, thus making it difficult to make general assumptions about the rates of lesbian domestic violence. This has caused rates of violence in lesbian relationships to range from 17 to 73 percent as of the 1990s, being too large of a scale to accurately determine the pervasiveness of lesbian abuse in the community.\n\nSince not all lesbians are open about their sexuality, large random samples are difficult to obtain and therefore are unable to show trends in the general lesbian community. Research samples tend to be smaller, causing report rates of violence to be lower than they may be. This is \"a consequence of the invisibility of such violence and fear of homophobic reactions\".\n\nTheoretical analysis of domestic violence in lesbian relationships is heavily debated. Popular approaches mainly discuss \"the comparability of violence in lesbian and gay male relationships (same sex violence,) or draw on feminist theories of gendered power relations, comparing domestic violence between lesbians and heterosexual women\". Some theorists also study same sex violence by defining gender as anatomy, and claim that gender is not relevant in any case of domestic violence due to its prevalence in same-sex relationships that is perpetrated as a form of homophobic behavior and occurs without consequence. Other theorists argue that gay men and lesbians still internalize feminine and masculine behaviors, causing lesbians to \"mimic traditional heterosexual relationships\" and create blatant power dynamics between dominant and submissive partners.\n\nThe scope of domestic violence among lesbian relationships displays the pattern of intimidation, coercion, terrorism, or violence that achieves enhanced power and control for the perpetrator over her partner. The forms of domestic violence in lesbian relationships include physical abuse, such as hitting, choking, using weapons, or restraining, often referred to as \"battering\"; emotional abuse, such as lying, neglecting, and degrading; intimidation threats, such as threats to harm the victim, their family, or their pets; sexual abuse, such as forcing sex or refusing safe sex; destruction of property, such as vandalizing the home and damaging furniture, clothing, or personal objects; economic, such as controlling the victim's money and forcing financial dependence. In addition, psychological abuse was found to be common among lesbian victims. Findings from studies have shown that slapping was most the commonly reported form of abuse, while beatings and assaults with weapons were less frequent. Sexual violence within lesbian relationships was found to be as high as 55%. The most frequent type included forced kissing, breast, and genital fondling, and oral, anal, or vaginal penetration. Eighty percent of victims reported psychological abuse and verbal abuse. Lesbians are also less likely to use physical force or threats than gay men.\n\nFactors that contribute to domestic violence include the belief that abuse (physical or verbal) is acceptable, substance abuse, unemployment, mental health problems, lack of coping skills, isolation, and excessive dependence on the abuser. Factors specific to lesbian relationships such as emotional isolation and lack of community ties due to heterosexism and homophobia, minority stress, and the re-victimization of women who have previously suffered abuse also provoke the causes of domestic violence in lesbian relationships. The political context of homophobia and heterosexism is essential for understanding the experience of lesbian victims of domestic violence. Also homophobia is an important factor in shaping the experience of domestic violence in lesbian relationships. For instance, mental health agencies still contain homophobic and heterosexual beliefs which limit the extent of the services provided to the victims. These victims experience violence within the context of a world that is not only misogynistic but is also homophobic.\n\nLesbian couples frequently experience social stigma against them, including experiences of discrimination and bias against them, as well as other minority stress factors which can include the fear of outing, internalized homophobia, the butch/femme identity, and relationship quality. \n\nA perpetrator may use her partner's internalized homophobia to justify her own violence. This may cause a general distaste or negative conception of the lesbian identity, both of oneself and others. This behavior is described as horizontal hostility, or minority groups becoming hostile or violent toward each other. This stems from both finding it easier to direct hatred toward other oppressed groups and internalized homophobia and misogyny. In the case of domestic violence in lesbian relationships, this hostility is perpetuated in the form of intimate partner abuse.\n\nIn some cases, the lesbian community can dismiss cases of domestic violence in lesbian relationships or shame victims of domestic violence. This contributes to low self-esteem, feelings of powerlessness, denial of group membership, and difficulty being in committed and trusting relationships. These negative feelings are then acted out in the form of lesbian battering. Also women fear that they might suffer from isolation, risk of losing their job, housing or family as consequences to homophobia and internalized homophobia. A woman who abuses her female partner can use homophobic control as a method of psychological abuse, which further isolates the victim. For example, an abuser may out her partner without permission by revealing her sexual orientation to others, including relatives, employers, and landlords, and in child custody cases. This form of abuse could result in a variety of negative consequences for the victim, such as being shunned by family members and the loss of children, a job, and housing. In fearing isolation due to homophobia, lesbians also experience the phenomenon of living in the \"second closet\", or that they must keep both their sexualities and experiences with domestic violence hidden from others due to fear of negative repercussions. These homophobic roots also integrate themselves into how lesbians raise their children.\n\nMany lesbians who are either battered or batter have had experience with domestic violence and sexual assault, often familial or as a child, including beatings, incest, molestation, and verbal abuse. In growing up in living situations where violence is \"normalized\", the partner often does not label the problem or recognize that the violence within the relationship is an issue. This can also translate into how the couple raise potential children and implement discipline.\n\nDomestic violence in lesbian relationships happens for many reasons. Domestic violence can occur due to control. Violence is most frequently employed as a tactic for achieving interpersonal power or control over their partner. Also perceived loss of power or control may also lead to increased violence within the relationship. The alienation and isolation imposed by internalized and external oppression may construct loss of control, and the need to reclaim it becomes the central concern for lesbians. Lesbians may be denied control over numerous aspects of their lives. However, if she remains in the closet, she is also denied control, subjected to continuous self-monitoring, and forced to deal with stress so that she could hide her identity and her intimate relationship from the eyes of others. The perpetrator of violence in an intimate relationship can also threaten their partner to abduct their children if only one has legal custody of their children. On the contrary, there have also been cases of lesbians and lesbian couples that become \"guardian ad litems\" and households that have been licensed to provide temporary foster care for children that are vulnerable to domestic violence. Power and control take advantage the most intimate parts of lesbian relationships, including sex life and the individual agency of the victim in the relationship.\n\nAnother reason why domestic violence can occur is dependency. The need to achieve balance between separateness and connection has been identified as the primary task in relationships, and is a specifically frequent problem in lesbian relationships. The degree of dependence on a relationship and on one's intimate partner causes abuse. Lesbians who report more frequent use of violent tactics in conflict with their partner will report a higher level of dependency as a personality trait.\n\nDependency in lesbian relationships is also a result of female-specific socialization. Since women have been socialized for \"togetherness\" and cooperative living, women often struggle with balancing social life and being alone. A study found that lesbians are more likely to spend free time at home than homosexual men are. In lesbian relationships, women often find it difficult to spend time apart because they feel pressured to take care of one another. Women may assume that spending time away from their partner would make them upset or angry. Without proper communication, improper management of time may lead to unhealthy discourse within a relationship, and partner equality remains difficult to maintain.\n\nSelf-esteem is another underlying factor of domestic abuse. Low self-esteem and a negative self-image are qualities that characterize both perpetrators and victims of heterosexual domestic violence. The jealousy and the possessiveness that are frequently linked to battering behavior are associated with problems of low self-esteem and negative self-concept. Lesbians who report more frequent use of violent tactics in conflicts with their partners will report a lower level of self-esteem as a personality trait.\n\nDomestic violence shelters also provide heterocentric services for battered women, which further isolates battered lesbians and silences the pervasiveness of domestic violence in lesbian relationships. The perpetrator of violence in an abusive relationship is often assumed to be male, while the victim of the violence is assumed to be straight. These services can be improved by ensuring that the case statement of an agency unit is LGBTQ friendly, providing training services for faculty and staff at shelters, making sure that all services does not have heterosexist language, and providing opportunities for lesbians to take leadership positions in these endeavors.\n\n"}
{"id": "42524972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42524972", "title": "Fond du Lac County Jane Doe", "text": "Fond du Lac County Jane Doe\n\nFond du Lac County Jane Doe is an unidentified female discovered on November 23, 2008, in Ashford, Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin. She has yet to be identified, although many efforts have been made to discover who she was. Investigators believe that it is possible that she may not have been from the area. Her face was reconstructed digitally by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in 2009 and again in 2018 to give an approximation of how she may have appeared in life. The victim was between fifteen and twenty-one years old when she died, placing her year of birth between 1987 and 1994.\n\nThe remains of a young woman were found frozen in a creek by hunters on November 23, 2008, in Fond du Lac County, Wisconsin, near an abandoned farm. To extract the body, investigators were forced to chisel away the ice and scuba divers searched the bottom for evidence. Some articles of clothing were found, including a strapless Zoey Beth black and pink top with a pink bow, originating from Family Dollar, distributed in the spring of 2008. The underclothing that she wore, also from Family Dollar, was shipped only between July 1 and July 15, 2008. Her jeans were that of the Angels brand and the bottom of the legs had been rolled up, somewhat, and an elastic ponytail holder was found on her wrist.\n\nNo socks or shoes were found at the scene. Initially, no jewelry was found, until a penny-sized St. Benedict medal was found by divers, but it may not have belonged to her, as examiners could not be certain how long it had been in the water. However, some reports claim that a bracelet containing several pendants was also found on the girl's remains. The hair was a shoulder-length light brown, possibly having hair highlights due to having some different shades. The clothing had caused some issues with investigators, as many of the different articles were in various sizes. It has been determined, however, that she was most likely around 120 pounds.\n\nDetermining the cause of death was inconclusive, as the severe decomposition on the body had removed all signs of possible violence from the remains. However, the case is believed to have been a murder, as suicide was eliminated as a possibility of the girl's death. The circumstances of the location of the remains had also sparked suspicion among authorities. Toxicology tests were conducted to see if any drugs or alcohol had been in her system, yet the results were never released.\n\nAlthough the body was found in autumn, she had died in the summer, two to four months previously. This was established by examining traces from insects that were found on the remains. She had an overbite, and some fillings and dental sealants were found on the upper molars with no current cavities. The overbite was not described as extreme, but may have been noticeable, which could be a reliable feature depicted in her facial reconstruction. The estimated height was between 4'10\" and 5'4\", the victim being between fifteen and twenty-one years old and weighing between 110 to 135 pounds, at an \"average frame\". Examiners believe she was either white or Hispanic, although Native American and Asian races cannot be ruled out. She also may have been biracial. Other physical characteristics included a healed rib fracture and being pigeon toed or knock-kneed, which may have been noticeable when she walked, as her feet were slanted inward. She also suffered from spina bifida occulta, but may have been unaware of the condition. \n\nTo obtain DNA information, her femur was transported to the University of Texas. The victim's dental records were also recorded to compare to missing persons.\n\nAt least 200 leads have been explored into discovering the identity of the victim. A computer-generated reconstruction was created from the skull by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children from mortuary photographs and a CT scan of the skull that were submitted to the center. The reconstruction of the victim generated over two hundred tips that did not produce solid leads, as the composite apparently resembled a large number of missing people. Former missing person Amanda Berry, one of several possible identities of the Jane Doe, was ruled out by DNA analysis. She was recovered alive in 2013.\n\nBesides Amanda Berry, two other individuals that were eventually located were also ruled out of the case: Connie McCallister and Brittany Peart. McCallister, native to Wisconsin, was abducted at age 16 and taken to Mexico. She was eventually recovered alive after meeting a \"church missionary\" that reported the find to the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children. Brittany Peart disappeared in July 2008 from Elkton, Maryland. Peart's remains were located and identified in December 2011. Her cause of death remains unreleased.\n\nThe Jane Doe's body was buried in 2011 after the investigation turned cold. Television shows such as \"America's Most Wanted\" were contacted to broadcast the case to possibly reveal new clues. A Facebook page was also created to generate leads for the case.\n\nOn April 23, 2018, a revised reconstruction was released and plans to exhume the victim for isotope testing and DNA phenotyping to predict geographical locations where she may have originated and to develop a clearer estimation of her ethnicity and physical characteristics.\n\nIn August 2018, it was revealed isotopic analysis was performed on the victim's remains in the IsoForensics laboratory located in Utah. The testing indicated the Jane Doe likely spent most of her life in the Southwestern United States, such as Arizona and New Mexico. She had lived in the Midwest, perhaps states such as southwestern Wisconsin, northern Iowa and southern Minnesota for less than a year preceding her death. It was speculated by investigators that her case was related to the so-called West Mesa murders, but this was later ruled out.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2936630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2936630", "title": "Frontier Middle School shooting", "text": "Frontier Middle School shooting\n\nThe Frontier Middle School shooting was a school shooting that occurred on February 2, 1996, at Frontier Middle School in Moses Lake, Washington, United States. The gunman, 14-year-old Barry Dale Loukaitis (; born February 26, 1981), killed his algebra teacher and two students, and held his classmates hostage before a gym coach subdued Loukaitis.\n\nOn the day of the shooting, Loukaitis was dressed as a Wild West-style gunslinger and was wearing a black duster. He was armed with a .30–30 caliber hunting rifle and two handguns (.357 caliber revolver and .25 caliber semiautomatic pistol) that belonged to his father, and was carrying approximately 78 rounds of ammunition.\n\nLoukaitis walked from his house to his school, where he had entered his algebra classroom during fifth period. He opened fire at students, killing two, Arnold Fritz and Manuel Vela, Jr., both fourteen. Another student, 13-year-old Natalie Hintz, sustained critical gunshot wounds to the right arm and abdomen, and was airlifted to Harborview Medical Center in Seattle.\n\nLoukaitis then fatally shot his algebra teacher Leona Caires in the chest. As his classmates began to panic, Loukaitis reportedly said, \"This sure beats the hell out of algebra, doesn't it?\", which is often erroneously reported as a quote from the Stephen King novel \"Rage\". Teacher and coach Jon Lane entered the classroom upon hearing the gunshots to find Loukaitis holding his classmates hostage. He planned to use one hostage so he could safely exit the school. Lane volunteered as the hostage, and Loukaitis kept him at gunpoint with his rifle. Lane then grabbed the weapon from Loukaitis and wrestled him to the ground, later assisting in the evacuation of students.\n\nLane kept Loukaitis subdued until police arrived at the scene.\n\nIn June 1996, the Spokane Court of Appeals were to come to a decision whether 15-year-old Barry Loukaitis should be tried as an adult or juvenile. On July 2, three members of the Spokane Court of Appeals convinced Judge Evan Sperline to allow court-appointed psychiatrist Joan Petrich to present a testimony based on Loukaitis' mental health. The trial was later moved to Seattle, Washington due to media publicity. Loukaitis had pleaded insanity on all charges against him, and claimed that \"mood swings\" were the cause of his violent actions. During his trial, Joan Petrich testified that Loukaitis had been experiencing delusional and messianic thoughts before the shooting. She had stated, \"He felt like he was God and would laugh to himself. He felt he was superior to other people, and then those feelings were later replaced by hate, disdain, and not measuring up.\"\n\nProsecutors Donna Wise and John Knodell argued that Loukaitis had carefully planned the shooting, getting ideas from the Pearl Jam song \"Jeremy\". The music video from \"Jeremy\" shows a troubled youth committing suicide in front of his teacher and classmates, although it was largely believed that \"Jeremy\" had opened fire on the class. This has been widely misunderstood because MTV had strong anti violence imagery rules. The original video showed the child putting the gun into his mouth, however the only images allowed to air were those of the children covered in his blood. Prosecution also said that he had gotten ideas from the Stephen King novel \"Rage\" and the films \"Natural Born Killers\" and \"The Basketball Diaries\". Loukaitis has also stated that he tried to model his life after the novel \"Rage\"'s protagonist Charlie Decker, who kills two teachers and takes his algebra class hostage.\n\nOn September 24, 1997, Loukaitis was convicted of two counts of first-degree murder, one count of second-degree murder, one count of first-degree attempted murder, and 16 counts of aggravated kidnapping. He was sentenced to serve two life sentences and an additional 205 years without the possibility of parole. He is currently imprisoned at the Clallam Bay Corrections Center in Washington State. The Washington State Court of Appeals denied Loukaitis's request for a new trial in 1999.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court ruled in 2012 that people convicted of murder they committed under 16 years of age could not receive life terms without parole. Loukaitis was heard for a re-sentencing in 2017, during which he apologized for the first time, in a letter to the Grant County Superior Court. He was re-sentenced to 189 years in prison.\n\nIn the year prior to the shooting, the Loukaitis family was facing various dysfunctional issues. Loukaitis' parents separated in 1995, after his mother discovered her husband was having an affair. She filed for divorce against her husband in January 1996. His mother, Jo Ann Phillips, was a domineering woman who became increasingly distant and began speaking of suicide. She would frequently imply that her son Barry would also have to kill himself, and that the date of the double-suicide would be on Valentine's Day of 1996. Barry talked his mother out of doing so, by having her write down her feelings.\n\nPsychologists hired by the defense believed Loukaitis suffered from either depression or bipolar disorder, while prosecution witness Dr. Alan Unis, a professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences at the University of Washington, diagnosed him with dysthymic disorder. Loukaitis suffered from hyperactivity, and was taking Ritalin at the time of the shooting. He also suffered from clinical depression, a mental illness present in the last three generations of the Loukaitis family, and last four generations of the Phillips family.\n\nLoukaitis claimed that he only intended on killing Manuel Vela, and that the other deaths were accidental.\n\n"}
{"id": "40423826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40423826", "title": "Grave candle", "text": "Grave candle\n\nA grave candle, grave lantern, death candle or a death lantern is a type of candle or lantern, which is lit in memory of the dead or to commemorate solemn events. The form of a lantern is commonly used in Christianity, whereas candles are more common in Judaism (where they are known as the Yahrzeit candle).\n\nThe tradition has been adopted by Christianity from the earlier pagan tradition.\n\nThe grave lanterns, known as \"znicz\", are a common tradition in Poland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43891745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43891745", "title": "Guibert of Cors", "text": "Guibert of Cors\n\nGuibert of Cors (; died 1258) was a French knight and Baron of Mitopoli in the Principality of Achaea. Guibert was married to Margaret of Nully, daughter of the Lord of Passavas John of Nully. He was killed in 1258 in the Battle of Karydi.\n"}
{"id": "10577577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10577577", "title": "HMS D2", "text": "HMS D2\n\nHMS \"D2\" was one of eight D-class submarine built for the Royal Navy during the first decade of the 20th century.\n\nThe D-class submarines were designed as improved and enlarged versions of the preceding C class, with diesel engines replacing the dangerous petrol engines used earlier. \"D2\" was slightly smaller than her sister ships and had a length of overall, a beam of and a mean draught of . She displaced on the surface and submerged. The D-class submarines had a crew of 25 officers and other ranks and were the first to adopt saddle tanks.\n\nFor surface running, the boats were powered by two diesels, each driving one propeller shaft. When submerged each propeller was driven by a electric motor. They could reach on the surface and underwater. On the surface, the D class had a range of at .\n\nThe boats were armed with three 18-inch (45 cm) torpedo tubes, two in the bow and one in the stern. They carried one reload for each tube, a total of six torpedoes.\n\n\"D2\" was laid down by Vickers on 10 July 1909 at their Barrow shipyard and commissioned on 29 March 1911. During her career, \"D2\" returned from the second Heligoland Bight patrol along with , and . On 28 August 1914, \"D2\", \"D3\" and fought in the Battle of Heligoland Bight. Then, two days before \"D2\" met her fate, Lieutenant Commander Jameson was washed overboard off Harwich. Lt. Cdr. Head was his replacement. \"D2\" was rammed and sunk by a German patrol boat off Borkum on 25 November 1914, leaving no survivors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25138257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25138257", "title": "History of taxidermy", "text": "History of taxidermy\n\nTaxidermy, or the process of preserving animal skin together with its feathers, fur, or scales, is an art whose existence has been short compared to forms such as painting, sculpture, and music. The word derives from two Greek words: \"taxis\", meaning order, preparation, and arrangement and \"derma\", meaning skin. Directly translated, taxidermy means \"skin art\".\n\nAccording to John W. Moyer, a staff member at the Chicago Field Museum of Natural History famous for his comprehensive studies on the development of this process, in his book \"Practical Taxidermy\", the modern form of taxidermy greatly differs from the taxidermy of antiquity. In ancient times, although considered some form of \"art\", it was a process of animal preservation; in contrast, modern taxidermy methods seek to produce lifelike mounts of wildlife by accurately modeling the anatomy of animal specimens as they might appear in their natural habitat. According to Albert B. Farnham, in his book \"Home Taxidermy for Pleasure and Profit\", although its methods greatly differ over time, the art reveals that there existed then as now the desire to preserve the trophy of the hunter’s prowess and skill in natural objects \n\nAs documented in Frederick H. Hitchcock's 19th-century manual entitled \"Practical Taxidermy\", the earliest known taxidermists were the ancient Egyptians and despite the fact that they never removed skins from animals as a whole, it was the Egyptians who developed one of the world's earliest forms of animal preservation through the use of injections, spices, oils, and other embalming tools. As early as 2200 BC, they embalmed the bodies of dogs, cats, monkeys, birds, sheep, oxen, and any other pets of Egyptian royalty and buried them in their Pharaoh's tomb. This art of embalming was effective, not for the purpose of having the specimens look natural or for exhibition, but to satisfy the tradition of the times. Likewise, according to Thomas Brown, a 19th-century naturalist and malacologist, \"Egyptian preservation attempts were prepared in such a manner as to produce no pleasurable sensations in examining them; instead, they were remarkable only for their great antiquity and spiritual beliefs\". Though these people did not seek to preserve animals for modeling their anatomy as they might appear in a natural setting, the ancient Egyptians’ ability to preserve the carcasses of animals as immense as the hippopotamus (a mummy of which was discovered in Thebes) reflect the veracity of these early textual claims to the art's earliest roots.\n\nOther instances of ancient roots in taxidermy date as far back as five centuries B.C. in the record of the African explorations of Hanno the Carthaginian. Within the past five centuries, an account is given of the discovery of what were evidently gorillas and the subsequent preservation of their skins, which were hung in the temple of Astarte where they remained until the taking of Carthage in the year 146 B.C.\n\nThe people of Greece, Rome, ancient Britain, and other northern lands could be said to have practiced a form of taxidermy in the tanning of skins used for clothing. Because they had no other means of covering their bodies, early Europeans developed methods of preserving the skins of lions, tigers, wolves, and bears for survival.\n\nMuch like the people of Greece, Rome, and northern Europe, many Native American tribes such as the Sioux, Cherokee, Pottawatomie, and Cheyenne preserved the skins of foxes, raccoons, bears, buffalo, porcupines, and eagles to produce and decorate their clothing, tools, and equipment. To this day, remnants of such Native American tribes continue this early form of taxidermy in tanning and preserving animal carcasses for traditional and cultural purposes.\n\nNearly a millennium after the fall of Rome in 476 AD, Western European societies transcended the Dark Ages and transformed into powerful, centralized nations through the Renaissance and Scientific Revolution; as these countries were formed, advances in technology and overall living conditions decreased the need for hide tanning – taxidermy in one of its earliest forms. Instead, Western Europe witnessed the rise in modern taxidermy, or the modeling the anatomy of various animals in their natural habitats. As taxidermy developed into its modern form, its growth in popularity paralleled the growth of modern naturalistic exhibition.\n\nAbout 400 years ago, the first mounting attempt on record included the preservation of birds in the Netherlands. As reported, a wealthy Dutch trader obtained an aviary of exotic birds that were brought back from the East Indies. Due to the neglect of the bird keeper, every bird died of suffocation; but as the owner wished to keep their skins and plumage for display, they were skinned and preserved with spices brought to Holland, also from the East Indies. The skins were then wired and stuffed with cotton and tow and were ultimately posed in natural positions.\n\nThough the preservation of bird skins from the East Indies is the first officially recorded mounting attempt, the Royal Museum of Vertebrates, located in Florence, Italy, poses a mounted rhinoceros believed to date back as early as 1500. Though the exact method of preservation of the animal’s skin is unknown, it is believed that the skull and leg bones were used to set up the animal’s frame on a wood armature and were then stuffed.\n\nAnother specimen that was prepared during the birth of modern taxidermy is a mounted crocodile 10 to 12 feet long from Egypt that has been on exhibit at the Museum at St. Gall in Switzerland since 1627. Like the rhinoceros, the exact methods of how the crocodile was mounted are unknown. However, the specimen has never been kept under glass, which reveals the success of modern taxidermy, even in its earliest years.\n\nOne of the first published works on taxidermy is found in \"Natural History\", published by the Royal Academy of Vienna in the beginning of the 18th-century. Containing a treatise on the dissection of birds and animals, the work also makes reference to the preservation of birds in the Netherlands more than a century before.\n\nAccording to John W. Moyer in another one of his works for \"Encyclopedia Americana\", one of the earliest published works on taxidermy is R. A. F. de Reaumur's \"Treatise\", which was published in 1749. In this work, Reaumur discussed the preservation of skins of birds; however, because his plan was simply mounting birds with wires – as had been done over two centuries before – his method did not find much favor among other taxidermists. Instead, it spurred the development of a new system of preservation in which one cut the skins longitudinally into halves, filled one half with plaster, fixing the skin to a backboard, inserting an eye, painting on a beak and legs, and then mounting the bird in a framework of glass. For the next several decades, this process became the standard method of European taxidermists.\n\nAfter rising to prominence in 1759, the British Museum, which, was then known as the Montagu House, contained the world's largest collection of animal skins in the 18th- and early 19th-century, displaying a total of 1886 mammals, 1172 birds, 521 reptiles, and 1555 fishes; however, a great proportion of these were not stuffed specimens, but simply bones and preparations of skins. Soon after the Museum's opening, these natural history collections drew a great deal of interest from the public, thus demonstrating the rise in popularity of the art into the 1800s.\n\nFollowing the regaining of its independence from Napoleon and the restoration of peace in Europe, Great Britain witnessed continued growth in the Museum’s status as naturalists and taxidermists found that the public had then time and the inclination to devote themselves to such collections.\n\nPerhaps the most notable event that provided an impetus to a more accurate, realistic modeling of specimens in their natural settings was the Great Exhibition of 1851 in London. Displaying a plethora of exhibits from all around the world in various forms, it was the first time in history where taxidermists from across the world gathered together and presented modern, innovative methods pertaining to the art.\n\nIn the late 1800s, British taxidermists established the Rowland Ward studio was established in London; the individuals who worked there are credited with many improved methods in taxidermy. It was at Ward’s that the \"Lion and Tiger\" struggle (despite its unnatural display of history) was designed and mounted, then considered the finest animal exhibit of ancient or modern times. This display was initially moved to an exhibit in Paris, but was soon returned to the Sydenham Crystal Palace in London.\n\nFollowing the creation of the \"Lion and Tiger\" exhibit, a prominent French taxidermist named Jules Verieaux mounted another animal group, though different in design. Entitled \"The Courier\", the display depicted the figure of an Arab man (presumably formed from some type of wax) seated upon a stuffed camel being attacked by two lions. This spectacle was first exhibited at the Paris Fair of 1867 and was later purchased by the American Museum of Natural History. Like the \"Lion and Tiger display\", Verieaux’s work – along with those of other European taxidermists such as Edwin Ward – demonstrated the development of taxidermy into its modern form as its artists paid a greater deal of attention to animals’ anatomical movements and features.\n\nAlthough the French and Germans progressed in the practice of taxidermy prior to the Great Exhibition of 1851 in London, the English made several improvements in methodology and skill in the years that followed. Much of this can be attributed to the culture of Victorian Society. According to Paul Farber, a researcher at the University of Chicago, in his book \"The Development of Taxidermy and the History of Ornithology\", the art of taxidermy was first brought into popular regard by the Victorians, who were enthralled by all tokens of exotic travel, especially to any domesticated representations of wilderness. Whether it was having a glassed-in miniature rain forest on the tea table or a mounted antelope by the front door, members of the elite class relished the art as a manifestation of one’s knowledge, wealth, and artistry. As Victorian English society reached its pinnacle near the end of the 19th-century, technique and methodology of the art progressed; however, compared to modern standards, poses were still fairly stiff and expressionless.\n\nOne of the pioneers in early American taxidermy, a man named John Scudder succeeded to the proprietorship of Gardner Baker's American Museum, which had been founded in New York in 1791 by the Tammany Society. The museum was later acquired by P. T. Barnum and was soon reestablished as Barnum's American Museum in 1842. Scudder's successor, Titian Peale, who was appointed assistant manager of the Philadelphia Museum in 1821, also made important contributions to early taxidermy exhibits. Though Scudder and Peale did not contribute any known innovations in the art's technique or methodology, their museum work in New York and Philadelphia paved the way for the development of modern American taxidermy in the decades that followed.\n\nThough taxidermy’s early roots developed in Africa and Western Europe, modern-day taxidermy began in the United States in 1861 when Henry Augustus Ward's Natural Science Establishment was founded in Rochester, New York. Modern-day taxidermists often give credit to this establishment for placing taxidermy on a level with other allied arts and beginning a new era in museum exhibitions. Many later taxidermists, whose work was among the most advanced exhibited, could credit their careers to Ward's Establishment, and many present museums have display collections built around these early Ward specimens.\n\nIt was at Ward's that the Society of American Taxidermists was founded on March 24, 1880. This society, the first of its kind in the United States, published scholarly reports and held three competitive exhibitions: the first in Rochester on December 14–18, 1880; the second in Boston on December 14–21, 1881; and the third in New York City on April 30-May 5, 1883. Terminated after the last exhibit in 1883, \"the society in three years had done more for taxidermy and the natural history museum in general in the United States than had ever previously been accomplished\". Founded by America's most skilled taxidermists of the day, the Society presented to the public modern methods and techniques, which were freely discussed and served to bring about a higher standard of commercial work and museum exhibits. It was during this time in which the \"stuffing\" of animals transformed into a purely elaborate art form. In addition, this institution generated many famous taxidermists and naturalists such as William T. Hornaday, Frederic S. Webster, John Martens, Carl E. Akeley, Joseph Palmer, William J. Critchley, Thomas W. Fraine, and J.F.D. Bailey.\n\nBy the early part of the twentieth century, following the termination of Ward's Society of American Taxidermists, individuals such as Akeley, Hornaday, and Leon Pray had refined techniques and begun emphasizing artistry. Akeley, specifically, is responsible for devising a method of mounting that is now standard. In this process, \"the true contours of the specimen are preserved by making a clay model, exactly duplicating the animal's muscle structure, over an armature that includes the original skeleton or parts of it. A plaster mold is then made, from which is produced a light, durable frame that holds the skin in position. Synthetic materials, especially celluloid, are now often used to reproduce the true color and translucence of such specimens as reptiles and fishes.\"\n\nHowever, as the techniques of taxidermy became more realistic, the more mounted displays discomfited viewers; instead of expressionless moose heads mounted onto a wall of a building, artists began mounting specimens such as bobcats pouncing in midair. Therefore, as a result, for the next several decades, taxidermy existed in the margins – practitioners were located sporadically throughout the United States, often self-taught, and usually known only by word of mouth.\n\nAfter years of disorganization and scattered existence, American taxidermy witnessed a sudden rebirth in the early 1970s. Taxidermy schools opened, igniting hopes of success in prospective artists. In 1971, for instance, the National Taxidermy Association was formed after years of unsuccessful organization. Similarly, in 1974, a trade magazine called Taxidermy Review began sponsoring national competitions. For the first time in history, American taxidermists had a chance to collaborate and discuss specific processes in the taxidermy process such as gluing tongues into jaw sets or accurately measuring the carcass of a squirrel. The majority of such techniques are still used in taxidermy shops today, allowing practitioners to prepare specimens as realistically as possible.\n\nAmerican culture reflects its preoccupation with taxidermy in a variety of ways. Various words and phrases used in everyday life are derived from the vocabulary of taxidermy—the threat to \"beat the 'stuffing' out of someone\" or derogatorily referring to someone as a \"stuffed shirt,\" meaning that they are fake or artificially pompous. It has also manifested itself in popular television shows such as in the \"Scrubs\" episode where the doctors encounter a dead dog and in \"The Office\" where Dwight offers to have his taxidermist stuff Angela's deceased cat.\n\nTaxidermy has also been institutionalized as an American folk craft. At one time, it was listed in the Boy Scouts of America Handbook as one of the skills which, when mastered, could earn a merit badge. The Merit Badge of Taxidermy was first introduced in 1911 and included in the Handbook through 1954, during which 10,344 scouts earned the badge. In 1954, the taxidermy badge was dropped from the merit badge series because of the \"lack of interest.\"\n\nMany Americans have acquired their expertise in taxidermy via mail-order lessons and commenced their artistic career with the carcass of a sparrow or squirrel. Many prominent Americans, such as the noted painter Charles Wilson Peale and the famous military leader George Armstrong Custer, were enthusiastic taxidermists. The art has enjoyed a pervasive integration into the fabric of American social life as practitioners are found in practically every small town in America. Specimens are widely employed in home and store decorations, for business advertising, for sporting trophies, and perhaps, most importantly, reifying the notion that humans can symbolically \"restore\" life to dead animals — thereby, in a sense, demonstrating our perceived human power over death.\n\nFaux Taxidermy has been a modern phenomenon in home decor and decorating since the 2010s. In 2013, the Huffington post noted that decorating with sculpted fake animal heads painted in different colors had become a popular trend in interior design..\n\n"}
{"id": "5569282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5569282", "title": "Isomorph", "text": "Isomorph\n\nAn isomorph is an organism that does not change in shape during growth. The implication is that its volume is proportional to its cubed length, and its surface area to its squared length. This holds for any shape it might have; the actual shape determines the proportionality constants.\n\nThe reason why the concept is important in the context of the Dynamic Energy Budget (DEB) theory is that food (substrate) uptake is proportional to surface area, and maintenance to volume. Since volume grows faster than surface area, this controls the ultimate size of the organism. Alfred Russel Wallace wrote this in a letter to E. B. Poulton in 1865. The surface area that is of importance is the part that is involved in substrate uptake (e.g. the gut surface), which is typically a fixed fraction of the total surface area in an isomorph. The DEB theory explains why isomorphs grow according to the von Bertalanffy curve if food availability is constant.\n\nOrganisms can also change in shape during growth, which affects the growth curve and the ultimate size, see for instance V0-morphs and V1-morphs. Isomorphs can also be called V2/3-morphs.\n\nMost animals approximate isomorphy, but plants in a vegetation typically start as V1-morphs, then convert to isomorphs, and end up as V0-morphs (if neighbouring plants affect their uptake).\n\n"}
{"id": "34114298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34114298", "title": "Java Grammatical Evolution", "text": "Java Grammatical Evolution\n\nIn computer science, Java Grammatical Evolution is an implementation of grammatical evolution in the Java programming language. Examples include jGE library and GEVA.\n\njGE library was the first published implementation of grammatical evolution in the Java language. Today, another well-known published Java implementation exists, named GEVA. GEVA was developed at University College Dublin's Natural Computing Research & Applications group under the guidance of one of the inventors of grammatical evolution, Dr. Michael O'Neill.\n\njGE library aims to provide not only an implementation of grammatical evolution, but also a free, open-source, and extendable framework for experimentation in the area of evolutionary computation. Namely, it supports the implementation (through additions and extensions) of any evolutionary algorithm. Furthermore, its extendable architecture and design facilitates the implementation and incorporation of new experimental implementation inspired by natural evolution and biology.\n\nThe jGE library binary file, the source code, the documentation, and an extension for the NetLogo modeling environment, named jGE NetLogo extension, can be downloaded from the jGE Official Web Site.\n\nThe jGE library is free software released under the GNU General Public License v3.\n\n"}
{"id": "583320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=583320", "title": "Joseph Force Crater", "text": "Joseph Force Crater\n\nJoseph Force Crater (January 5, 1889 – disappeared August 6, 1930, declared legally dead June 6, 1939) was a New York State Supreme Court Justice who vanished amid political scandal. He was last seen leaving a restaurant on West 45th Street in Manhattan, and entered popular culture as one of the most mysterious missing persons cases of the twentieth century. Despite massive publicity, the case was never solved and was officially closed 40 years after he disappeared. His disappearance fueled public disquiet about New York City corruption and was a factor in the downfall of the Tammany Hall political machine.\n\nCrater was born in Easton, Pennsylvania, the eldest of four children of Frank Ellsworth Crater and the former Leila Virginia Montague. He was educated at Lafayette College (class of 1910) and Columbia University. He was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity.\n\nCrater's official title was Justice of the New York Supreme Court for New York County, which is a trial court despite the designation \"supreme\" (New York's highest court is the Court of Appeals). Bank records later revealed that he withdrew $20,000 shortly before taking up the position in April 1930 at the relatively young age of 41. This caused suspicion that a payment to Tammany Hall politicians had secured his appointment. While acting as official receiver in a bankruptcy, Crater sold a property at a tiny fraction of the $3 million that the city paid to get it back shortly afterward. The huge profit generated in the transaction later caused speculation that he had been killed in a dispute over the money made on a corrupt scheme, although no evidence of corruption was ever found.\n\nCrater issued two published opinions: \"Rotkowitz v. Sohn\", involving fraudulent conveyances and mortgage foreclosure fraud; and \"Henderson v. Park Central Motors Service\", dealing with a garage company's liability for an expensive car stolen and wrecked by an ex-convict.\n\nIn the summer of 1930, Crater and his wife Stella Mance Wheeler were vacationing at their summer cabin in Belgrade, Maine. In late July, Crater received a telephone call. He offered no information to his wife about the content of the call, other than to say that he had to return to the city \"to straighten those fellows out\". The next day, he arrived at his 40 Fifth Avenue apartment, but instead of dealing with business, he made a trip to Atlantic City, New Jersey, with his mistress, showgirl Sally Lou Ritzi (who used the stage name Ritz). He returned to Maine on August 1, and traveled back to New York on August 3. Before making this final trip, he promised his wife that he would return by her birthday on August 9. Crater's wife stated that he was in good spirits and behaving normally when he departed for New York City. On the morning of Wednesday, August 6, Crater spent two hours going through his files in his courthouse chambers, reportedly destroying several documents. He then had his law clerk Joseph Mara cash two checks for him that amounted to $5,150 (equivalent to about $ in dollars). At noon, he and Mara carried two locked briefcases to his apartment and he let Mara take the rest of the day off.\n\nLater that evening, Crater went to a Broadway ticket agency (Supreme Tickets) and bought one seat from William Deutsch (proprietor of Supreme) for a comedy called \"Dancing Partner\" at the Belasco Theatre. He then went to Billy Haas's Chophouse at 332 West 45th Street, where he ate dinner with Ritzi and William Klein, a lawyer friend. Klein later told investigators that Crater was in a good mood that evening and gave no indication that anything was bothering him. The dinner ended a little after 9 p.m., shortly after the curtain rose on the show for which Crater had bought a ticket, and the small group went outside.\n\nCrater's dinner companions gave differing accounts of Crater's departure from the restaurant. William Klein initially testified that \"the judge got into a taxicab outside the restaurant about 9:30 p.m. and drove west on Forty-fifth Street,\" and this account was initially confirmed by Sally Lou Ritz: \"At the sidewalk Judge Crater took a taxicab\". Klein and Ritz later changed their story and said that they had entered a taxi outside the restaurant while Crater had walked down the street.\n\nThere was no immediate reaction to Judge Crater's disappearance. He did not return to Maine for 10 days, and his wife began making calls to their friends in New York, asking if anyone had seen him. Only when he failed to appear for the opening of the courts on August 25 did his fellow justices become alarmed. They started a private search but failed to find any trace of him. The police were finally notified on September 3 and, after that, the missing judge was front-page news.\n\nOnce an official investigation was launched, the case received widespread publicity. Detectives discovered that the judge's safe deposit box had been emptied and the two briefcases that Crater and his assistant had taken to his apartment were missing. These promising leads were quickly lost amid the thousands of false reports from people claiming to have seen the missing man.\n\nCrater enjoyed the city's nightlife and had been involved with several women. In the aftermath of the case, two of the women he had been involved with left town abruptly and a third was murdered. Ritzi, the showgirl who had dined with him the evening that he vanished, left New York in August or September 1930. She was found in late September 1930, living in Youngstown, Ohio, with her parents. She said that she had left New York suddenly because she had received word that her father was ill. Ritzi was still being subjected to interviews by police investigating the Crater case in 1937, by which time she was living in Beverly Hills, California.\n\nShowgirl June Brice had been seen talking to Crater the day before he disappeared. A lawyer acting for Crater's wife believed that Brice had been at the center of a scheme to blackmail Crater (thus explaining why Crater had taken cash out of the bank) and that a gangster boyfriend of Brice had killed the judge. Brice disappeared the day that a grand jury was to convene on the case. In 1948, she was discovered in a mental hospital.\n\nVivian Gordon, a third woman, was involved in high-end prostitution and linked to madam Polly Adler. Gordon had liaisons with a large number of influential businesspeople, and was the owner, on paper at least, of a number of properties believed to be fronts for illegal activity. She was also seen around town with gangster Jack \"Legs\" Diamond, with whom Crater was rumored to socialize. Crater had known Diamond's former boss, organized crime figure Arnold Rothstein, and had been extremely upset at his murder.\n\nOn February 20, 1931, Vivian Gordon was angry about a conviction that had resulted in her losing custody of her 16-year-old daughter. She met the head of an official inquiry into city government corruption (launched in the wake of Crater's disappearance) and offered to testify about police graft. She was murdered five days later. Detectives searching her apartment found a coat that had belonged to Crater.\n\nThe publicity surrounding Gordon's killing led to the resignation of a policeman whom she had accused of framing her, and the suicide of her daughter. The Tammany Hall political machine's hold on the city was largely eliminated in the ensuing scandal, as it was already weakened by Rothstein and the conflict over his former empire. This also led to the resignation of New York City Mayor Jimmy Walker.\n\nIn October, a grand jury began examining the case, calling 95 witnesses and amassing 975 pages of testimony. Mrs. Crater refused to appear. The conclusion was that \"the evidence is insufficient to warrant any expression of opinion as to whether Crater is alive or dead, or as to whether he has absented himself voluntarily, or is the sufferer from disease in the nature of amnesia, or is the victim of crime\". At the time, some theorized that he had left town with another woman or fled to avoid revelations of corruption, but the case's extensive publicity would have made it virtually impossible for Crater to have begun a new life somewhere else. Six months after his disappearance, Crater's wife found envelopes in a dresser drawer containing money and a note from the judge. The discovery led to a number of new but ultimately inconclusive leads, and no trace of him was ever found. Crater's wife said that he had been murdered. The case was officially closed in 1979.\n\nJudge Crater met Stella Mance Wheeler in 1917 when he served as her divorce lawyer, and they married seven days after her divorce was finalized. Mrs. Crater remained at their vacation home in Belgrade Lakes, Maine, during the search for her husband, until January 20, 1931, when she allegedly discovered checks, stocks, bonds, and a note written by the judge in a drawer that had been empty when police checked earlier. Without Crater's income, Mrs. Crater was unable to maintain the couple's fashionable Fifth Avenue apartment and was evicted. She petitioned to have the judge declared officially dead in July 1937; she was reportedly living on the $12 per week (approximately $ in 2013 funds) that she earned as a telephone operator in Belgrade Lakes.\n\nMrs. Crater married Carl Kunz, a New York electrical contractor, in Elkton, Maryland, on April 23, 1938, a year before the judge was declared legally dead. Kunz's first wife had hanged herself only eight days before the wedding.\n\nThe judge was finally declared legally dead in 1939 thanks to Mrs. Crater's lawyer, noted New York attorney Emil K. Ellis. She received $20,561 in life insurance (approximately $ in 2013 dollars). She separated from Kunz in 1950 and died in 1969 at age 70.\n\nShe expressed her belief that Crater had been murdered in her own account of the case, \"The Empty Robe\", which was written with freelance writer and journalist Oscar Fraley and published by Doubleday in 1961.\n\nOn August 19, 2005, authorities revealed that, after her death at age 91, they had received notes that had been written by Stella Ferrucci-Good, from Queens. In the letter, Ferrucci-Good claimed that her husband, Robert Good, a detective with the NYPD, had learned that Crater was killed by NYPD officer Charles Burns (also bodyguard of Abe Reles of Murder, Inc.) and Burns' brother, Frank. According to the letter, Crater was buried near West Eighth Street in Coney Island, Brooklyn, at the current site of the New York Aquarium. Police reported that no records had been found to indicate that skeletal remains had been discovered at that site when it was excavated in the 1950s. Richard J. Tofel, the author of \"Vanishing Point: The Disappearance of Judge Crater and the New York He Left Behind\", expressed skepticism of Ferrucci-Good's account.\n\nThe phrase \"to pull a Crater\" means to disappear. It is no longer widely used. \n\nFor many years following Crater's disappearance, \"Judge Crater, call your office\" was a standard gag of nightclub comedians.\n\nAs a publicity stunt for their 1933 film \"Bureau of Missing Persons\", First National Pictures promised in advertisements to pay Crater $10,000 () if he claimed it in person at the box office.\n\nIn the 66th episode of \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\" Rob and Laura renew their wedding vows before a Connecticut Justice of the Peace who says he is \"Judge Crater\". He admits moments later it is really Krata but he deliberately mispronounces it because he loves watching people's reactions.\n\nJudge Crater's last letter, possibly written on the day of his disappearance, was sold at auction on June 22, 1981, for $700. The letter was marked \"confidential\" and began: \"The following money is due me from the persons named. Get in touch with them for they will surely pay their debts.\" It was incorrectly reported that this letter was Crater's will.\n\nIn Jack Finney's science fiction short story \"Of Missing Persons\", the narrator speculates that Judge Crater went to Verna.\n\nIn his novel \"The Man Who Never Returned\" (2010), Peter Quinn investigates the Crater case through the lens of a fictional detective working the case in 1955. \n\nIn her novel \"The Wife, the Maid, and the Mistress\" (2014), Ariel Lawhon theorizes that the women in Judge Crater's life all knew what happened to him, but refused to reveal the facts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20598041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20598041", "title": "Largest organisms", "text": "Largest organisms\n\nThe largest organisms now found on Earth can be determined according to various aspects of an organism's size, such as: mass, volume, area, length, height, or even genome size. Some organisms group together to form a superorganism (such as ants or bees), but such are not classed as single large organisms. The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest structure composed of living entities, stretching , but contains many organisms of many types of species.\n\nThis article lists the largest species for various types of organisms, and mostly considers extant species. The organism sizes listed are frequently considered \"outsized\" and are not in the normal size range for the respective group.\n\nIf considered singular entities, the largest organisms are clonal colonies which can spread over large areas. Pando, a clonal colony of the quaking aspen tree, is widely considered to be the largest such organism by mass. Even if such colonies are excluded, trees retain their dominance of this listing, with the giant sequoia being the most massive tree. In 2006 a huge clonal colony of \"Posidonia oceanica\" was discovered south of the island of Ibiza. At across, and estimated at around 100,000 years old, it may be one of the largest and oldest clonal colonies on Earth.\n\nAmong animals, the largest species are all marine mammals, specifically whales. The blue whale is believed to be the largest animal to have ever lived. The largest land animal classification is also dominated by mammals, with the African bush elephant being the most massive of these.\n\nThe largest single-stem tree by wood volume and mass is the giant sequoia (\"Sequoiadendron giganteum\"), native to Sierra Nevada and California; it typically grows to a height of and in diameter.\n\nMultiple-stem trees such as banyan can be enormous. Thimmamma Marrimanu in India spreads over .\n\nThe largest organism in the world, according to mass, is the aspen tree whose colonies of clones can grow up to five miles long. The largest such colony is Pando, in the Fishlake National Forest in Utah.\n\nAnother form of flowering plant that rivals Pando as the largest organism on earth in breadth, if not mass, is the giant marine plant, \"Posidonia oceanica\", discovered in the Mediterranean near the Balearic Islands, Spain. Its length is about . It may also be the oldest living organism in the world, with an estimated age of 100,000 years.\n\nGreen algae are photosynthetic unicellular and multicellular protists that are related to land plants. The thallus of the unicellular mermaid's wineglass, \"Acetabularia\", can grow to several inches (perhaps 0.1 to 0.2 m) in length. The fronds of the similarly unicellular, and invasive \"Caulerpa taxifolia\" can grow up to a foot (0.3 m) long.\n\nA member of the order Cetacea, the blue whale (\"Balaenoptera musculus\"), is thought to be the largest animal ever to have lived. The maximum recorded weight was 190 metric tonnes for a specimen measuring , whereas longer ones, up to , have been recorded but not weighed.\n\nThe African bush elephant (\"Loxodonta africana\"), of the order Proboscidea, is the largest living land animal. A native of various open habitats in sub-Saharan Africa, this elephant is commonly born weighing about . The largest elephant ever recorded was shot in Angola in 1974. It was a male measuring from trunk to tail and lying on its side in a projected line from the highest point of the shoulder to the base of the forefoot, indicating a standing shoulder height of . This male had an computed weight of 12.25 tonnes.\n\nThe heaviest living animals are all cetaceans, and thus also the largest living mammals. Since no scale can accommodate the whole body of a large whale, most whales have been weighed by parts.\n\n\nThe following is a list of the heaviest wild land animals, which are all mammals. The African elephant is now listed as two species, the African bush elephant and the African forest elephant, as they are now generally considered to be two separate species.\n\nThe largest tunicates are \"Synoicum pulmonaria\", found at depths of , and are up to 14 centimetres (6 in) in diameter. It is also present in the northwestern Atlantic Ocean, around the coasts of Greenland and Newfoundland, but is less common here than in the east, and occurs only at depths between .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe largest lancelets: European lancelet (\"Branchiostoma lanceolatum\") \"primitive fish\". It can grow up to 6 cm (2.5 in) long.\n\nThe blue whale is the largest mammal.\n\nThe largest land mammal extant today is the African bush elephant. The largest extinct land mammal known was long considered to be \"Paraceratherium orgosensis\", a rhinoceros relative thought to have stood up to tall, measured over long and may have weighed about 17 tonnes. In 2015, a study suggested that one example of the proboscidean \"Palaeoloxodon namadicus\" may have been the largest land mammal ever, based on extensive research of fragmentary leg bone fossils from one individual, with a maximum estimated size of 22 tonnes.\n\nThe Permian era \"Cotylorhynchus\", from what is now the southern United States, probably was the largest of all synapsids (most of which became extinct 250 million years ago), at and 2 tonnes. The largest carnivorous synapsid was \"Anteosaurus\" from what is now South Africa during Middle Permian era. \"Anteosaurus\" was long, and weighed about .\n\n\nThe largest living reptile, a representative of the order Crocodilia, is the saltwater crocodile (\"Crocodylus porosus\") of Southern Asia and Australia, with adult males being typically long. The largest confirmed saltwater crocodile on record was long, and weighed about . Unconfirmed reports of much larger crocodiles exist, but examinations of incomplete remains have never suggested a length greater than . Also, a living specimen estimated at and has been accepted by the Guinness Book of World Records. However, due to the difficulty of trapping and measuring a very large living crocodile, the accuracy of these dimensions has yet to be verified. A specimen named Lolong caught alive in the Philippines in 2011 (died February 2013) was found to have measured in length.\n\nThe Komodo dragon (\"Varanus komodoensis\"), also known as the \"Komodo monitor\", is a large species of lizard found in the Indonesian islands of Komodo, Rinca, Flores, Gili Motang, Nusa kode and Padar. A member of the monitor lizard family (Varanidae), it is the largest living species of lizard, growing to a maximum length of in rare cases and weighing up to approximately .\n\nThe following is a list of the heaviest living reptile species ranked by average weight, which is dominated by the crocodilians. Unlike mammals, birds, or fish, the mass of large reptiles is frequently poorly documented and many are subject to conjecture and estimation.\n\n\n\n\nThe largest living bird, a member of the Struthioniformes, is the common ostrich (\"Struthio camelus\"), from the plains of Africa and Arabia. A large male ostrich can reach a height of and weigh over . A mass of has been cited for the common ostrich but no wild ostriches of this weight have been verified. Eggs laid by the ostrich can weigh and are the largest eggs in the world today.\nThe largest bird in the fossil record may be the extinct elephant birds (\"Aepyornis\") of Madagascar, which were related to the ostrich. They exceeded in height and . The last of the elephant birds became extinct about 300 years ago. Of almost exactly the same upper proportions as the largest elephant birds was \"Dromornis stirtoni\" of Australia, part of a 26,000-year-old group called mihirungs of the family Dromornithidae. The largest carnivorous bird was \"Brontornis\", an extinct flightless bird from South America which reached a weight of and a height of about . The tallest carnivorous bird was \"Kelenken\", which could reach 3 to 3.2 meters in height and 220 to 250 kilograms. The tallest bird ever was the giant moa (\"Dinornis maximus\"), part of the moa family of New Zealand that went extinct around 1500 AD. This particular species of moa stood up to tall, but weighed about half as much as a large elephant bird or mihirung due to its comparatively slender frame.\n\nThe heaviest bird ever capable of flight was \"Argentavis magnificens\", the largest member of the now extinct family Teratornithidae, found in Miocene-aged fossil beds of Argentina, with a wingspan up to , a length of up to , a height on the ground of up to and a body weight of at least . \"Pelagornis sandersi\" is thought to have had an even larger wingspan of about , but is only about , half the mass of the former.\n\nThe following is a list of the heaviest living bird species based on maximum reported or reliable mass, but average weight is also given for comparison. These species are almost all flightless, which allows for these particular birds to have denser bones and heavier bodies. Flightless birds comprise less than 2% of all living bird species.\n\nThe largest living amphibian is the Chinese giant salamander (\"Andrias davidianus\"). The maximum size of this nearly human-sized river-dweller is and almost . Before amniotes became the dominant tetrapods, several giant amphibian proto-tetrapods existed and were certainly the dominant animals in their ecosystems. The largest known was the crocodile-like \"Prionosuchus\", which reached a length of .\n\n\n\nThe largest known species of sea sponge is the giant barrel sponge, \"Xestospongia muta\". These massively built sponges can reach in height and can be of about the same number of feet across at the thickest part of the \"body\". Some of these creatures have been estimated to be over 2,400 years of age.\n\nThe lion's mane jellyfish (\"Cyanea capillata\") is the largest cnidaria species, of the class Scyphozoa. The largest known specimen of this giant, found washed up on the shore of Massachusetts Bay in 1870, had a bell diameter of , a weight of . The tentacles of this specimens were as long as and were projected to have a tentacular spread of about making it one of the longest extant animals.\n\n\n\nThe largest roundworm, \"Placentonema gigantissima\", is a parasite found in the placentas of sperm whales which can reach up to in length.\n\nThe largest of the segmented worms (commonly called earthworms) is the African giant earthworm (\"Microchaetus rappi\"). Although it averages about in length, this huge worm can reach a length of as much as and can weigh over . Only the giant Gippsland earthworm, \"Megascolides australis\", and a few giant polychaetes, including the notorious \"Eunice aphroditois\", reach nearly comparable sizes, reaching , respectively.\n\nThe largest species of echinoderm in terms of bulk is probably the starfish species \"Thromidia gigas\", of the class Asteroidea, which reaches a weight of over , but it might be beaten by some giant sea cucumbers such as \"Thelenota anax\". However, at a maximum span of , \"Thromidia gigas\" is quite a bit shorter than some other echinoderms. The longest echinoderm known is the conspicuous sea cucumber \"Synapta maculata\", with a slender body that can extend up to . In comparison, the biggest sea star is the brisingid sea star \"Midgardia xandaros\", reaching a span of , despite being quite slender. \"Evasterias echinosoma\" is another giant echinoderm and can measure up to across and weigh .\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe largest nemertean is the bootlace worm, \"Lineus longissimus\". A specimen found washed ashore on a beach in St. Andrews, Scotland in 1864 was recorded at a length of .\n\nBoth the largest mollusks and the largest of all invertebrates (in terms of mass) are the largest squids. The colossal squid (\"Mesonychoteuthis hamiltoni\") is projected to be the largest invertebrate. Current estimates put its maximum size at long and , based on analysis of smaller specimens. In 2007, authorities in New Zealand announced the capture of the largest known colossal squid specimen. It was initially thought to be and . It was later measured at long and in weight. The mantle was long when measured.\n\nThe giant squid (\"Architeuthis dux\") was previously thought to be the largest squid, and while it is less massive and has a smaller mantle than the colossal squid, it may exceed the colossal squid in overall length including tentacles. One giant squid specimen that washed ashore in 1878 in Newfoundland reportedly measured in total length (from the tip of the mantle to the end of the long tentacles), head and body length , in diameter at the thickest part of mantle, and weighed about . This specimen is still often cited as the largest invertebrate that has ever been examined. However, no animals approaching this size have been scientifically documented and, according to giant squid expert Steve O'Shea, such lengths were likely achieved by greatly stretching the two tentacles like elastic bands.\n\n\n\nSolórzano's velvet worm (\"Peripatus solorzanoi\") is the largest velvet worm known. An adult female was recorded to have a body length of 22 cm (approximately 8.7 in).\n\nThe largest arthropod known to have existed is the eurypterid (sea scorpion) \"Jaekelopterus\", reaching up to in body length, followed by the millipede relative \"Arthropleura\" at around in length. Among living arthropods, the Japanese spider crab (\"Macrocheira kaempferi\") is the largest in overall size, the record specimen, caught in 1921, had an extended arm span of and weighed about . The heaviest is the American lobster (\"Homarus americanus\"), the largest verified specimen, caught in 1977 off of Nova Scotia weighed and its body length was . The largest land arthropod and the largest land invertebrate is the coconut crab (\"Birgus latro\"), up to long and weighing up to on average. Its legs may span .\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nInsects, a class of Arthropoda, are easily the most numerous class of organisms, with over one million identified species, and probably many undescribed species. The heaviest insect is almost certainly a species of beetle, which incidentally is the most species-rich order of organisms. Although heavyweight giant wetas (\"Deinacrida heteracantha\") are known, the elephant beetles of Central and South America, (\"Megasoma elephas\") and (\"M. actaeon\"), the Titan beetle (\"Titanus giganteus\") of the neotropical rainforests or the Goliath beetles, (\"Goliathus goliatus\") and (\"G. regius\"), of Africa's rainforests are thought to reach a higher weight. The most frequently crowned are the Goliath beetles, the top known size of which is at least and . The elephant beetles and titan beetle can reach greater lengths than the Goliath, at up to , respectively, but this is in part thanks to their rather large horns. The Goliath beetle's wingspan can range up to .\n\nSome moths and butterflies have much larger areas than the heaviest beetles, but weigh a fraction as much.\n\nThe longest insects are the stick insects, see below.\n\nRepresentatives of the extinct dragonfly-like order Protodonata such as the Carboniferous \"Meganeura monyi\" of what is now France and the Permian \"Meganeuropsis permiana\" of what is now North America are the largest insect species yet known to have existed. These creatures had a wingspan of some and a mass of over , making them about the size of a crow.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe largest living fungus may be a honey fungus of the species \"Armillaria ostoyae\".\nA mushroom of this type in the Malheur National Forest in the Blue Mountains of eastern Oregon, U.S. was found to be the largest fungal colony in the world, spanning of area. This organism is estimated to be 2,400 years old. The fungus was written about in the April 2003 issue of the \"Canadian Journal of Forest Research\". While an accurate estimate has not been made, the total weight of the colony may be as much as 605 tons. If this colony is considered a single organism, then it is the largest known organism in the world by area, and rivals the aspen grove \"Pando\" as the known organism with the highest living biomass. It is not known, however, whether it is a single organism with all parts of the mycelium connected.\n\nIn \"Armillaria ostoyae\", each individual mushroom (the fruiting body, similar to a flower on a plant) has only a stipe, and a pileus up to across. There are many other fungi which produce a larger individual size mushroom. The largest known fruiting body of a fungus is a specimen of \"Phellinus ellipsoideus\" (formerly \"Fomitiporia ellipsoidea\") found on Hainan Island. The fruiting body masses up to .\n\nUntil \"P. ellipsoideus\" replaced it, the largest individual fruit body came from \"Rigidoporus ulmarius\". \"R. ulmarius\" can grow up to , tall, across, and has a circumference of up to .\n\nThe largest known species of bacterium is \"Thiomargarita namibiensis\", which grows to in diameter, making it visible to the naked eye and a thousand times the size of more typical bacteria.\n\n\nThe largest virus on record so far is the \"Pithovirus sibericum\" with the length of 1.5 micrometres, comparable to the typical size of a bacterium and large enough to be seen in light microscopes. It was discovered in March 2014 in a soil sample collected from a riverbank in Siberia. Prior to this discovery, the largest virus was the peculiar virus genus \"Pandoravirus\", which have a size of approximately 1 micrometer and whose genome contains 1,900,000 to 2,500,000 base pairs of DNA.\n\nBoth these viruses infect amoebas specifically.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "300318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300318", "title": "Lautaro", "text": "Lautaro\n\nLautaro ( \"swift hawk\") (; 1534? – April 29, 1557) was a young Araucanian \"toqui\" known for leading the indigenous resistance against Spanish conquest in Chile. Lautaro begun his career as a captive of Pedro de Valdivia but escaped in 1551. Back among his people he was declared toqui and led Mapuche warriors into a series of victories against the Spanish culminating in the Battle of Tucapel in December 1553 where Pedro de Valdivia was killed.\n. The outbreak of a typhus plague, a drought and a famine prevented the Mapuche from taking further actions to expel the Spanish in 1554 and 1555. Between 1556 and 1557 a small group of Mapuche commanded by Lautaro attempted to reach Santiago to liberate the whole of Central Chile from Spanish rule. Lautaro's attempts ended in 1557 when he was killed in an ambush by the Spanish.\n\nToday Lautaro is revered among Mapuche and non-Mapuche Chileans for his resistance against foreign conquest, servitude and cruelty.\n\nLautaro was the son of a Mapuche \"lonko\" (a chief who holds office during peacetime) called, Curiñancu (Kurüñamku in the Mapuche language, Mapudungun, ‘aguilucho negro’ meaning ‘black harrier’) and was born in 1533. He lived a normal life until, at the age of 11, he was captured by the Spanish and forced into servitude by Don Pedro de Valdivia and became his personal servant. Since it was difficult for the Spaniards to pronounce Lautaro’s original name, Leftraru, they gave him the name of Felipe Lautaro. Don Pedro de Valdivia was a Spanish conqueror of Chile and then became the captain general of Chile.\n\nLautaro learned the military ways and skills of the Spaniards' army by observation. He was witness to atrocities committed by the Spanish on captive Mapuche warriors. According to several historians, in the immediate vicinity of what is now the city of Concepción, Chile, Pedro de Valdivia ordered his men to cut off the feet and hands of every Mapuche in Curiñancu's tribe, for resisting Spanish colonization, among them Curiñancu and his wife, Lautaro’s parents, in order to teach the Mapuche a lesson. It is said that because of Valdivia’s command to cut off the toes of the Mapuche warriors, the Spanish soldiers named the place “El Valle de La Mocha”, whose name has been maintained over time. A great hatred of the Spanish and particularly of Pedro de Valdivia was born in the young Lautaro because of this incident. After his capture they made him a Yanakuna, meaning a “black slave” in Quechua. He remained a prisoner of the Spanish for three years. Because he kept his personal hatred of Valdivia hidden, Lautaro soon became his personal page. Among his daily tasks as a page, he was in charge of taking care of Valdivia’s horses and always accompanying them into battle and military exercises. This is how he learned not to fear horses and even become a good rider himself.\n\nDuring this period he had a certain level of friendship with one of Valdivia’s principal captains by the name of Marcos Veas, who taught Lautaro how to use different kinds of weapons and cavalry tactics. This was a typical practice because as a yanakuna Lautaro was responsible to serve as an indigenous assistant during battles.\n\nAccording to the Chilean novelist Isabel Allende in her historical novel, \"Inés del Alma Mía\", the boy Lautaro had deliberately allowed himself to be captured by the Spanish in order to learn their secrets, and made no attempt to escape until he felt he had learned enough. In any case, he fled twice, first in 1550 and for good in 1552. In 1553 (the year Lautaro turned 19), the Mapuches convened to decide how to respond to the Spanish invasion. The convention decided upon war. The \"toqui\" Caupolicán chose Lautaro as vice toqui because he had served as a page in the Spanish cavalry, and thereby possessed knowledge of how to defeat the mounted \"conquistadors\". Lautaro introduced use of horses to the Mapuche and designed better combat tactics. He organized a large, cohesive army—a military formation unfamiliar to the Mapuche.\n\nWith 6,000 warriors under his command, Lautaro attacked Fort Tucapel. The Spanish garrison couldn't withstand the assault and retreated to Purén. Lautaro seized the fort, sure that the Spaniards would attempt to retake it. That is exactly what Governor Valdivia tried to do with a reduced force, which was quickly surrounded and massacred by the Mapuches on Christmas Day, 1553. The Battle of Tucapel would be Pedro de Valdivia's last, as he was captured and then killed.\n\nAfter the defeat at Tucapel, the Spanish hastily reorganized their forces, reinforcing the defenses of Fort Imperial and abandoning the settlements of Confines and Arauco in order to strengthen Concepción. However, Mapuche tradition dictated a lengthy victory celebration, which kept Lautaro from realizing his desire to pursue the military advantage he had just gained. It was only in February 1554 that he succeeded in putting together an army of 8,000 men, just in time to confront a punitive expedition under the command of Francisco de Villagra.\n\nLautaro chose the hill of Marihueñu to fight the Spanish. He organized his forces in four divisions: two charged with containing and wearing down the enemy, a third held in reserve to launch a fresh attack as the Spanish were about to crumble, and the last charged with cutting off their retreat. Additionally, a small group was sent to destroy the reed bridge the Spanish had erected across the Bío-Bío River, which would further disrupt any attempted retreat of Villagra.\n\nThe Spanish attack broke the first Mapuche lines, but the quick response of the third division maintained the Mapuche position. Later, the wings of this division began to attack the Spanish flanks, and the fourth division attacked from behind. After hours of battle, only a small group of Spanish managed to retreat. Despite this fresh victory, Lautaro was again unable to pursue the opportunity due to the celebrations and beliefs of his people. By the time he arrived at Concepción, it was already abandoned. He burned it, but his remaining forces were insufficient to continue the offensive, so the campaign came to an end.\n\nIn Santiago, Villagra reorganized his forces, and that same year of 1554, he departed again for Arauco and reinforced the strongholds of Imperial and Valdivia, without any interference from the Mapuches, who were dealing with their first epidemic of smallpox, which had been brought by the Spanish.\n\nIn 1555, the Real Audiencia of Lima ordered him to reconstruct Concepción, which was done under the command of Captain Alvarado. Upon learning of this, Lautaro successfully besieged Concepción with 4,000 warriors. Only 38 Spaniards managed to escape by sea the second destruction of the city.\n\nAfter the second rout at Concepción, Lautaro desired to attack Santiago. He found scant support for this plan from his troops, who soon dwindled to only 600, but he carried on. In October 1556 his northward march reached the Mataquito River, where he established a fortified camp at Peteroa. In the Battle of Peteroa he repulsed attacking Spanish forces under the command of Diego Cano, and later held off the larger force commanded by Pedro de Villagra. Being advised that still more Spaniards were approaching, Lautaro decided to retreat towards the Maule River losing 200 warriors. With the Spaniards in hot pursuit he was forced to retire beyond the Itata River. From there he launched another campaign towards Santiago when Villagra's army passed him by on the way to the save the remaining Spanish settlements in Araucanía. Lautaro had chosen to give Villagra's force the slip and head for the city to attack it.\n\nDespite the Mapuches' stealth, the city's leaders learned of the advance and sent a small expedition to thwart it, buying time for word to be sent to Villagra to return to the city from the south. The Spanish forces met in the field, and from a member of the local ethnos, the Picunche, they learned the disposition of Lautaro's camp. At dawn, on April 29, 1557 the \"conquistadors\" launched a surprise attack from the hills of Caune, obtaining a decisive victory in the Battle of Mataquito in which Lautaro was killed early in the fighting. After the defeat of his army, his head was cut off and displayed in the plaza of Santiago.\n\nAlonso de Ercilla, an officer in the Spanish forces early in the Araucanian war (who, as it happened, was only one year older than Lautaro), in the decade following his service composed that masterpiece of the Spanish Golden Age of literature—the epic poem, \"La Araucana--\"in which Lautaro is a central figure.\n\nLautaro is acclaimed in Chile as its first general, for uniting the dispersed Mapuche people and leading them in battle. He inflicted crushing defeats on Spanish armies which had armored horsemen wielding swords, metal war clubs and steel-tipped lances, armored footmen as well, with their own swords and clubs, crossbows and arquebuses, even though his own Mapuche were armed only with slings, bows and arrows, wooden spears, clubs and axes. Remarkably, he did this not fighting a \"guerilla\" war, but in pitched battle.\n\nHis name was used by Francisco de Miranda when he founded the Lautaro Lodge, a secret Latin American independence society of the end of 18th century and the beginning of the 19th century. In the 20th century, Chilean author Pablo Neruda, the future Nobel Literature Prize laureate, wrote a poem about him.\n\nLautaro appears in the 2018 video-game expansion \"\" as the Mapuche leader.\n"}
{"id": "18105761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18105761", "title": "Manca", "text": "Manca\n\nThe manca (plural: \"mancae\") is the post-larval juvenile in some crustaceans. The manca stage is the defining characteristic of a clade called Mancoida which comprises all the member of the Peracarida except the Amphipoda. Mancae closely resemble the adult form, but for the absence of the last pair of pereiopods. In some isopods, specifically the family Gnathiidae, the manca stage is a parasite of fish, and is also known as the praniza.\n"}
{"id": "51465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51465", "title": "Molière", "text": "Molière\n\nJean-Baptiste Poquelin, known by his stage name Molière (; ; 15 January 162217 February 1673), was a French playwright, actor and poet, widely regarded as one of the greatest writers in the French language and universal literature. His extant works includes comedies, farces, tragicomedies, comédie-ballets, and more. His plays have been translated into every major living language and are performed at the Comédie-Française more often than those of any other playwright today.\n\nBorn into a prosperous family and having studied at the Collège de Clermont (now Lycée Louis-le-Grand), Molière was well suited to begin a life in the theatre. Thirteen years as an itinerant actor helped him polish his comic abilities while he began writing, combining Commedia dell'arte elements with the more refined French comedy.\n\nThrough the patronage of aristocrats including Philippe I, Duke of Orléans—the brother of Louis XIV—Molière procured a command performance before the King at the Louvre. Performing a classic play by Pierre Corneille and a farce of his own, \"The Doctor in Love\", Molière was granted the use of salle du Petit-Bourbon near the Louvre, a spacious room appointed for theatrical performances. Later, he was granted the use of the theatre in the Palais-Royal. In both locations Molière found success among Parisians with plays such as \"The Affected Ladies\", \"The School for Husbands\" and \"The School for Wives\". This royal favour brought a royal pension to his troupe and the title \"Troupe du Roi\" (\"The King's Troupe\"). Molière continued as the official author of court entertainments.\n\nDespite the adulation of the court and Parisians, Molière's satires attracted criticism from churchmen. For \"Tartuffe's\" impiety, the Catholic Church denounced this study of religious hypocrisy followed by the Parliament's ban, while \"Don Juan\" was withdrawn and never restaged by Molière. His hard work in so many theatrical capacities took its toll on his health and, by 1667, he was forced to take a break from the stage. In 1673, during a production of his final play, \"The Imaginary Invalid\", Molière, who suffered from pulmonary tuberculosis, was seized by a coughing fit and a haemorrhage while playing the hypochondriac Argan. He finished the performance but collapsed again and died a few hours later.\n\nMolière was born in Paris, the son of Jean Poquelin and Marie Cressé, the daughter of a prosperous bourgeois family. Upon seeing him for the first time, a maid exclaimed, \"Le nez!\", a reference to the infant's large nose. Molière was called \"Le Nez\" by his family from that time. He lost his mother when he was ten and he did not seem to have been particularly close to his father. After his mother's death, he lived with his father above the \"Pavillon des Singes\" on the rue Saint-Honoré, an affluent area of Paris. It is likely that his education commenced with studies in a Parisian elementary school; this was followed with his enrollment in the prestigious Jesuit Collège de Clermont, where he completed his studies in a strict academic environment and got a first taste of life on the stage.\n\nIn 1631, Jean Poquelin purchased from the court of Louis XIII the posts of \"\" (\"valet of the King's chamber and keeper of carpets and upholstery\"). His son assumed the same posts in 1641. The title required only three months' work and an initial cost of 1,200 livres; the title paid 300 livres a year and provided a number of lucrative contracts. Poquelin also studied as a provincial lawyer some time around 1642, probably in Orléans, but it is not documented that he ever qualified. So far he had followed his father's plans, which had served him well; he had mingled with nobility at the Collège de Clermont and seemed destined for a career in office.\n\nIn June 1643, when Molière was 21, he decided to abandon his social class and pursue a career on the stage. Taking leave of his father, he joined the actress Madeleine Béjart, with whom he had crossed paths before, and founded the Illustre Théâtre with 630 livres. They were later joined by Madeleine's brother and sister.\n\nThe new theatre troupe went bankrupt in 1645. Molière had become head of the troupe, due in part, perhaps, to his acting prowess and his legal training. However, the troupe had acquired large debts, mostly for the rent of the theatre (a court for jeu de paume), for which they owed 2000 livres. Historians differ as to whether his father or the lover of a member of his troupe paid his debts; either way, after a 24-hour stint in prison he returned to the acting circuit. It was at this time that he began to use the pseudonym \"Molière\", possibly inspired by a small village of the same name in the Midi near Le Vigan. It was also likely that he changed his name to spare his father the shame of having an actor in the family (actors, although no longer vilified by the state under Louis XIV, were still not allowed to be buried in sacred ground).\n\nAfter his imprisonment, he and Madeleine began a theatrical circuit of the provinces with a new theatre troupe; this life was to last about twelve years, during which he initially played in the company of Charles Dufresne, and subsequently created a company of his own, which had sufficient success and obtained the patronage of Philippe I, Duke of Orléans. Few plays survive from this period. The most noteworthy are \"L'Étourdi ou les Contretemps\" \"(The Bungler)\" and \"Le Docteur Amoureux\" \"(The Doctor in Love)\"; with these two plays, Molière moved away from the heavy influence of the Italian improvisational Commedia dell'arte, and displayed his talent for mockery. In the course of his travels he met Armand, Prince of Conti, the governor of Languedoc, who became his patron, and named his company after him. This friendship later ended when Armand, having contracted syphilis from a courtesan, turned towards religion and joined Molière's enemies in the \"Parti des Dévots\" and the \"Compagnie de Saint Sacrement\".\n\nIn Lyon, Mademoiselle Du Parc, known as \"Marquise\", joined the company. Marquise was courted, in vain, by Pierre Corneille and later became the lover of Jean Racine. Racine offered Molière his tragedy \"Théagène et Chariclée\" (one of the first works he wrote after he had abandoned his theology studies), but Molière would not perform it, though he encouraged Racine to pursue his artistic career. It is said that soon thereafter Molière became angry with Racine when he was told that he had secretly presented his tragedy to the company of the Hôtel de Bourgogne as well.\n\nMolière was forced to reach Paris in stages, staying outside for a few weeks in order to promote himself with society gentlemen and allow his reputation to feed in to Paris. Molière reached Paris in 1658 and performed in front of the King at the Louvre (then for rent as a theatre) in Corneille's tragedy \"Nicomède\" and in the farce \"Le Docteur Amoureux\" with some success. He was awarded the title of \"Troupe de Monsieur\" (Monsieur being the honorific for the king's brother Philippe I, Duke of Orléans). With the help of Monsieur, his company was allowed to share the theatre in the large hall of the Petit-Bourbon with the famous Italian Commedia dell'arte company of Tiberio Fiorillo, famous for his character of Scaramouche. (The two companies performed in the theatre on different nights.) The premiere of Molière's \"Les Précieuses Ridicules\" (\"The Affected Young Ladies\") took place at the Petit-Bourbon on 18 November 1659.\n\n\"Les Précieuses Ridicules\" was the first of Molière's many attempts to satirize certain societal mannerisms and affectations then common in France. It is widely accepted that the plot was based on Samuel Chappuzeau's \"Le Cercle des Femmes\" of 1656. He primarily mocks the Académie Française, a group created by Richelieu under a royal patent to establish the rules of the fledgling French theater. The Académie preached unity of time, action, and styles of verse. Molière is often associated with the claim that comedy \"castigat ridendo mores\" or \"criticises customs through humour\" (a phrase in fact coined by his contemporary Jean de Santeuil and sometimes mistaken for a classical Latin proverb).\n\nDespite his own preference for tragedy, which he had tried to further with the Illustre Théâtre, Molière became famous for his farces, which were generally in one act and performed after the tragedy. Some of these farces were only partly written, and were played in the style of Commedia dell'arte with improvisation over a canovaccio (a vague plot outline). He also wrote two comedies in verse, but these were less successful and are generally considered less significant. Later in life Molière concentrated on writing musical comedies, in which the drama is interrupted by songs and/or dances.\n\n\"Les Précieuses Ridicules\" won Molière the attention and the criticism of many, but it was not a popular success. He then asked Fiorillo to teach him the techniques of Commedia dell'arte. His 1660 play \"Sganarelle, ou Le Cocu imaginaire\" (\"The Imaginary Cuckold\") seems to be a tribute both to Commedia dell'arte and to his teacher. Its theme of marital relationships dramatizes Molière's pessimistic views on the falsity inherent in human relationships. This view is also evident in his later works, and was a source of inspiration for many later authors, including (in a different field and with different effect) Luigi Pirandello. It describes a kind of round dance where two couples believe that each of their partners has been betrayed by the other's and is the first in Molière's 'Jealousy series' which includes \"Dom Garcie de Navarre\", \"L'École des maris\" and \"L'École des femmes\".\nIn 1660 the Petit-Bourbon was demolished to make way for the eastern expansion of the Louvre, but Molière's company was allowed to move into the abandoned theatre in the east wing of the Palais-Royal. After a period of refurbishment they opened there on 20 January 1661. In order to please his patron, Monsieur, who was so enthralled with entertainment and art that he was soon excluded from state affairs, Molière wrote and played \"Dom Garcie de Navarre ou Le Prince jaloux\" (\"The Jealous Prince\", 4 February 1661), a heroic comedy derived from a work of Cicognini's. Two other comedies of the same year were the successful \"L'École des maris\" (\"The School for Husbands\") and \"Les Fâcheux\", subtitled \"Comédie faite pour les divertissements du Roi\" (a comedy for the King's amusements) because it was performed during a series of parties that Nicolas Fouquet gave in honor of the sovereign. These entertainments led Jean-Baptiste Colbert to demand the arrest of Fouquet for wasting public money, and he was condemned to life imprisonment.\n\nOn 20 February 1662 Molière married Armande Béjart, whom he believed to be the sister of Madeleine. (She may instead have been her illegitimate daughter with the Duke of Modena.) The same year he premiered \"L'École des femmes\" (\"The School for Wives\"), subsequently regarded as a masterpiece. It poked fun at the limited education that was given to daughters of rich families, and reflected Molière's own marriage. Both this work and his marriage attracted much criticism. The play sparked the protest called the \"Quarrel of L'École des femmes\". On the artistic side he responded with two lesser-known works: \"La Critique de \"L'École des femmes\"\", in which he imagined the spectators of his previous work attending it. The piece mocks the people who had criticised \"L'École des femmes\" by showing them at dinner after watching the play; it addresses all the criticism raised about the piece by presenting the critics' arguments and then dismissing them. This was the so-called \"Guerre comique\" (\"War of Comedy\"), in which the opposite side was taken by writers like Donneau de Visé, Edmé Boursault, and Montfleury.\n\nBut more serious opposition was brewing, focusing on Molière's politics and his personal life. A so-called \"parti des Dévots\" arose in French high society, who protested against Molière's excessive \"realism\" and irreverence, which were causing some embarrassment. These people accused Molière of having married his daughter. The Prince of Conti, once Molière's friend, joined them. Molière had other enemies, too, among them the Jansenists and some traditional authors. However, the king expressed support for the author, granting him a pension and agreeing to be the godfather of Molière's first son. Boileau also supported him through statements that he included in his \"Art poétique\".\n\nMolière's friendship with Jean-Baptiste Lully influenced him towards writing his \"Le Mariage forcé\" and \"La Princesse d'Élide\" (subtitled as \"Comédie galante mêlée de musique et d'entrées de ballet\"), written for royal \"divertissements\" at the Palace of Versailles.\n\n\"Tartuffe, ou L'Imposteur\" was also performed at Versailles, in 1664, and created the greatest scandal of Molière's artistic career. Its depiction of the hypocrisy of the dominant classes was taken as an outrage and violently contested. It also aroused the wrath of the Jansenists and the play was banned.\n\nMolière was always careful not to attack the institution of monarchy. He earned a position as one of the king's favourites and enjoyed his protection from the attacks of the court. The king allegedly suggested that Molière suspend performances of \"Tartuffe\", and the author rapidly wrote \"Dom Juan ou le Festin de Pierre\" to replace it. It was a strange work, derived from a work by Tirso de Molina and rendered in a prose that still seems modern today. It describes the story of an atheist who becomes a religious hypocrite and for this is punished by God. This work too was quickly suspended. The king, demonstrating his protection once again, became the new official sponsor of Molière's troupe.\n\nWith music by Lully, Molière presented \"L'Amour médecin\" (\"Love Doctor\" or \"Medical Love\"). Subtitles on this occasion reported that the work was given \"par ordre du Roi\" (by order of the king) and this work was received much more warmly than its predecessors.\n\nIn 1666, \"Le Misanthrope\" was produced. It is now widely regarded as Molière's most refined masterpiece, the one with the highest moral content, but it was little appreciated at its time. It caused the \"conversion\" of Donneau de Visé, who became fond of his theatre. But it was a commercial flop, forcing Molière to immediately write \"Le médecin malgré lui\" (\"The Doctor Despite Himself\"), a satire against the official sciences. This was a success despite a moral treatise by the Prince of Conti, criticizing the theater in general and Molière's in particular. In several of his plays, Molière depicted the physicians of his day as pompous individuals who speak (poor) Latin to impress others with false erudition, and know only clysters and bleedings as (ineffective) remedies.\n\nAfter the \"Mélicerte\" and the \"Pastorale comique\", he tried again to perform a revised \"Tartuffe\" in 1667, this time with the name of \"Panulphe\" or \"L'Imposteur\". As soon as the King left Paris for a tour, Lamoignon and the archbishop banned the play. The King finally imposed respect for \"Tartuffe\" a few years later, after he had gained more power over the clergy.\n\nMolière, now ill, wrote less. \"Le Sicilien ou L'Amour peintre\" was written for festivities at the castle of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, and was followed in 1668 by \"Amphitryon\", inspired both by Plautus' work of the same name and Jean Rotrou's successful reconfiguration of the drama. With some conjecture, Molière's play can be seen to allude to the love affairs of Louis XIV, then king of France. \"George Dandin, ou Le mari confondu\" (\"The Confounded Husband\") was little appreciated, but success returned with \"L'Avare\" (\"The Miser\"), now very well known.\n\nWith Lully he again used music for \"Monsieur de Pourceaugnac\", for \"Les Amants magnifiques\", and finally for \"Le Bourgeois gentilhomme\" (\"The Middle Class Gentleman\"), another of his masterpieces. It is claimed to be particularly directed against Colbert, the minister who had condemned his old patron Fouquet. The collaboration with Lully ended with a \"tragédie et ballet\", \"Psyché\", written in collaboration with Pierre Corneille and Philippe Quinault.\n\nIn 1672, Madeleine Béjart died, and Molière suffered from this loss and from the worsening of his own illness. Nevertheless, he wrote a successful \"Les Fourberies de Scapin\" (\"Scapin's Deceits\"), a farce and a comedy in five acts. His following play, \"La Comtesse d'Escarbagnas\", is considered one of his lesser works.\n\n\"Les Femmes savantes\" (\"The Learned Ladies\") of 1672 is considered another of Molière's masterpieces. It was born from the termination of the legal use of music in theater, since Lully had patented the opera in France (and taken most of the best available singers for his own performances), so Molière had to go back to his traditional genre. It was a great success, and it led to his last work (see below), which is still held in high esteem.\n\nIn his 14 years in Paris, Molière singlehandedly wrote 31 of the 85 plays performed on his stage.\n\nIn 1661, Molière introduced the \"comédies-ballets\" in conjunction with \"Les Fâcheux\". These ballets were a transitional form of dance performance between the court ballets of Louis XIV and the art of professional theatre which was developing in the advent of the use of the proscenium stage. The \"comédies-ballets\" developed accidentally when Molière was enlisted to mount both a play and a ballet in the honor of Louis XIV and found that he did not have a big enough cast to meet these demands. Molière therefore decided to combine the ballet and the play so that his goal could be met while the performers catch their breath and change costume. The risky move paid off and Molière was asked to produce twelve more \"comédies-ballets\" before his death. During the \"comédies-ballets\", Molière collaborated with Pierre Beauchamp. Beauchamp codified the five balletic positions of the feet and arms and was partly responsible for the creation of the Beauchamp-Feuillet dance notation. Molière also collaborated with Jean-Baptiste Lully. Lully was a dancer, choreographer, and composer, whose dominant reign at the Paris Opéra lasted fifteen years. Under his command, ballet and opera rightly became professional arts unto themselves. The \"comédies-ballets\" closely integrated dance with music and the action of the play and the style of continuity distinctly separated these performances from the court ballets of the time; additionally, the \"comédies-ballets\" demanded that both the dancers and the actors play an important role in advancing the story. Similar to the court ballets, both professionally trained dancers and courtiers socialized together at the \"comédies-ballets\" - Louis XIV even played the part of an Egyptian in Molière's \"Le Mariage forcé\" (1664) and also appeared as Neptune and Apollo in his retirement performance of \"Les Amants magnifiques\" (1670).\n\nMolière suffered from pulmonary tuberculosis, possibly contracted when he was imprisoned for debt as a young man. One of the most famous moments in Molière's life was his last, which became legend: he collapsed on stage in a fit of coughing and haemorrhaging while performing in the last play he had written, which had lavish ballets performed to the music of Marc-Antoine Charpentier and which ironically was entitled \"Le Malade imaginaire\" (\"The Imaginary Invalid\"). Molière insisted on completing his performance. Afterwards he collapsed again with another, larger haemorrhage before being taken home, where he died a few hours later, without receiving the last rites because two priests refused to visit him while a third arrived too late. The superstition that green brings bad luck to actors is said to originate from the colour of the clothing he was wearing at the time of his death.\n\nUnder French law at the time, actors were not allowed to be buried in the sacred ground of a cemetery. However, Molière's widow, Armande, asked the King if her spouse could be granted a normal funeral at night. The King agreed and Molière's body was buried in the part of the cemetery reserved for unbaptised infants.\n\nIn 1792 his remains were brought to the museum of French monuments and in 1817 transferred to Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris, close to those of La Fontaine.\n\nThough conventional thinkers, religious leaders, and medical professionals in Molière's time criticised his work, their ideas did not really diminish his widespread success with the public. Other playwrights and companies began to emulate his dramatic style in England and in France. Molière's works continued to garner positive feedback in 18th-century England, but they were not so warmly welcomed in France at this time. However, during the French Restoration of the 19th century, Molière's comedies became popular with both the French public and the critics. Romanticists admired his plays for the unconventional individualism they portrayed. 20th-century scholars have carried on this interest in Molière and his plays and have continued to study a wide array of issues relating to this playwright. Many critics now are shifting their attention from the philosophical, religious, and moral implications in his comedies to the more objective study of his comic technique.\n\nMolière's works were translated into English prose by John Ozell in 1714, but the first complete version in English, by Baker and Miller in 1739, remained \"influential\" and was long reprinted. The first to offer full translations of Molière's verse plays such as \"Tartuffe\" into English verse was Curtis Hidden Page, who produced blank verse versions of three of the plays in his 1908 translation. Since then, notable translations have been made by Richard Wilbur, Donald M. Frame, and many others.\n\nIn his memoir \"A Terrible Liar\", actor Hume Cronyn writes that, in 1962, celebrated actor Laurence Olivier criticized Molière in a conversation with him. According to Cronyn, he mentioned to Olivier that he (Cronyn) was about to play the title role in \"The Miser\", and that Olivier then responded, \"Molière? Funny as a baby's open grave.\" Cronyn comments on the incident: \"You may imagine how that made me feel. Fortunately, he was dead wrong.\"\n\nAuthor Martha Bellinger points out that:\n\nMolière is considered the creator of modern French comedy. Many words or phrases used in Molière's plays are still used in current French:\n\nMolière plays a small part in Alexandre Dumas's novel \"The Vicomte of Bragelonne\", in which he is seen taking inspiration from the muskeeter Porthos for his central character in \"Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme\".\n\nRussian writer Mikhail Bulgakov wrote a semi-fictitious biography-tribute to Molière, titled \"Life of Mr. de Molière\". Written 1932–1933, first published 1962.\n\nThe French 1978 film simply titled \"Molière\" directed by Ariane Mnouchkine and starring Philippe Caubère presents his complete biography. It was in competition for the Palme d'Or at Cannes in 1978.\n\nHe is portrayed among other writers in \"The Blasphemers' Banquet\" (1989).\n\nThe 2000 film \"Le Roi Danse\" (\"The King Dances\"), in which Molière is played by Tchéky Karyo, shows his collaborations with Jean-Baptiste Lully, as well as his illness and on-stage death.\nThe 2007 French film \"Molière\" was more loosely based on the life of Molière, starring Romain Duris, Fabrice Luchini and Ludivine Sagnier.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21473", "title": "Nikola Tesla", "text": "Nikola Tesla\n\nNikola Tesla (; ; ; 10 July 1856 – 7 January 1943) was a Serbian-American inventor, electrical engineer, mechanical engineer, and futurist who is best known for his contributions to the design of the modern alternating current (AC) electricity supply system.\n\nBorn and raised in the Austrian Empire, Tesla received an advanced education in engineering and physics in the 1870s and gained practical experience in the early 1880s working in telephony and at Continental Edison in the new electric power industry. He emigrated to the United States in 1884, where he would become a naturalized citizen. He worked for a short time at the Edison Machine Works in New York City before he struck out on his own. With the help of partners to finance and market his ideas, Tesla set up laboratories and companies in New York to develop a range of electrical and mechanical devices. His alternating current (AC) induction motor and related polyphase AC patents, licensed by Westinghouse Electric in 1888, earned him a considerable amount of money and became the cornerstone of the polyphase system which that company would eventually market.\n\nAttempting to develop inventions he could patent and market, Tesla conducted a range of experiments with mechanical oscillators/generators, electrical discharge tubes, and early X-ray imaging. He also built a wireless-controlled boat, one of the first ever exhibited. Tesla became well known as an inventor and would demonstrate his achievements to celebrities and wealthy patrons at his lab, and was noted for his showmanship at public lectures. Throughout the 1890s, Tesla pursued his ideas for wireless lighting and worldwide wireless electric power distribution in his high-voltage, high-frequency power experiments in New York and Colorado Springs. In 1893, he made pronouncements on the possibility of wireless communication with his devices. Tesla tried to put these ideas to practical use in his unfinished Wardenclyffe Tower project, an intercontinental wireless communication and power transmitter, but ran out of funding before he could complete it.\n\nAfter Wardenclyffe, Tesla experimented with a series of inventions in the 1910s and 1920s with varying degrees of success. Having spent most of his money, Tesla lived in a series of New York hotels, leaving behind unpaid bills. He died in New York City in January 1943. Tesla's work fell into relative obscurity following his death, until 1960, when the General Conference on Weights and Measures named the SI unit of magnetic flux density the tesla in his honor. There has been a resurgence in popular interest in Tesla since the 1990s.\n\nNikola Tesla was born an ethnic Serb in the village Smiljan, Lika county, in the Austrian Empire (present day Croatia), on 1856. His father, Milutin Tesla (1819–1879), was an Eastern Orthodox priest. Tesla's mother, Đuka Tesla (née Mandić; 1822–1892), whose father was also an Orthodox priest, had a talent for making home craft tools and mechanical appliances and the ability to memorize Serbian epic poems. Đuka had never received a formal education. Tesla credited his eidetic memory and creative abilities to his mother's genetics and influence. Tesla's progenitors were from western Serbia, near Montenegro.\n\nTesla was the fourth of five children. He had three sisters, Milka, Angelina and Marica, and an older brother named Dane, who was killed in a horse riding accident when Tesla was aged five. In 1861, Tesla attended primary school in Smiljan where he studied German, arithmetic, and religion. In 1862, the Tesla family moved to the nearby Gospić, Lika where Tesla's father worked as parish priest. Nikola completed primary school, followed by middle school.\n\nIn 1870, Tesla moved far north to Karlovac to attend high school at the Higher Real Gymnasium. The classes were held in German, as it was a school within the Austro-Hungarian Military Frontier.\n\nTesla would later write that he became interested in demonstrations of electricity by his physics professor. Tesla noted that these demonstrations of this \"mysterious phenomena\" made him want \"to know more of this wonderful force\". Tesla was able to perform integral calculus in his head, which prompted his teachers to believe that he was cheating. He finished a four-year term in three years, graduating in 1873.\n\nIn 1873, Tesla returned to Smiljan. Shortly after he arrived, he contracted cholera, was bedridden for nine months and was near death multiple times. Tesla's father, in a moment of despair, (who had originally wanted him to enter the priesthood) promised to send him to the best engineering school if he recovered from the illness.\n\nIn 1874, Tesla evaded conscription into the Austro-Hungarian Army in Smiljan by running away southeast of Lika to Tomingaj, near Gračac. There he explored the mountains wearing hunter's garb. Tesla said that this contact with nature made him stronger, both physically and mentally. He read many books while in Tomingaj and later said that Mark Twain's works had helped him to miraculously recover from his earlier illness.\n\nIn 1875, Tesla enrolled at Austrian Polytechnic in Graz, Austria, on a Military Frontier scholarship. During his first year, Tesla never missed a lecture, earned the highest grades possible, passed nine exams (nearly twice as many as required), started a Serb cultural club, and even received a letter of commendation from the dean of the technical faculty to his father, which stated, \"Your son is a star of first rank.\" During his second year, Tesla came into conflict with Professor Poeschl over the Gramme dynamo, when Tesla suggested that commutators were not necessary.\n\nTesla claimed that he worked from 3 a.m. to 11 p.m., no Sundays or holidays excepted. He was \"mortified when [his] father made light of [those] hard won honors.\" After his father's death in 1879, Tesla found a package of letters from his professors to his father, warning that unless he were removed from the school, Tesla would die through overwork. At the end of his second year, Tesla lost his scholarship and became addicted to gambling. During his third year, Tesla gambled away his allowance and his tuition money, later gambling back his initial losses and returning the balance to his family. Tesla said that he \"conquered [his] passion then and there,\" but later in the U.S. he was again known to play billiards. When examination time came, Tesla was unprepared and asked for an extension to study, but was denied. He did not receive grades for the last semester of the third year and he never graduated from the university.\n\nIn December 1878, Tesla left Graz and severed all relations with his family to hide the fact that he dropped out of school. His friends thought that he had drowned in the nearby Mur River. Tesla moved to Maribor, where he worked as a draftsman for 60 florins per month. He spent his spare time playing cards with local men on the streets.\n\nIn March 1879, Tesla's father went to Maribor to beg his son to return home, but he refused. Nikola suffered a nervous breakdown around the same time. On 24 March 1879, Tesla was returned to Gospić under police guard for not having a residence permit.\n\nOn 17 April 1879, Milutin Tesla died at the age of 60 after contracting an unspecified illness. Some sources say that he died of a stroke. During that year, Tesla taught a large class of students in his old school in Gospić.\n\nIn January 1880, two of Tesla's uncles put together enough money to help him leave Gospić for Prague, where he was to study. He arrived too late to enroll at Charles-Ferdinand University; he had never studied Greek, a required subject; and he was illiterate in Czech, another required subject. Tesla did, however, attend lectures in philosophy at the university as an auditor but he did not receive grades for the courses.\n\nIn 1881, Tesla moved to Budapest, Hungary, to work under Tivadar Puskás at a telegraph company, the Budapest Telephone Exchange. Upon arrival, Tesla realized that the company, then under construction, was not functional, so he worked as a draftsman in the Central Telegraph Office instead. Within a few months, the Budapest Telephone Exchange became functional, and Tesla was allocated the chief electrician position. During his employment, Tesla made many improvements to the Central Station equipment and claimed to have perfected a telephone repeater or amplifier, which was never patented nor publicly described.\n\nIn 1882, Tivadar Puskás got Tesla another job in Paris with the Continental Edison Company. Tesla began working in what was then a brand new industry, installing indoor incandescent lighting citywide in the form of an electric power utility. The company had several subdivisions and Tesla worked at the Société Electrique Edison, the division in the Ivry-sur-Seine suburb of Paris in charge of installing the lighting system. There he gained a great deal of practical experience in electrical engineering. Management took notice of his advanced knowledge in engineering and physics and soon had him designing and building improved versions of generating dynamos and motors. They also sent him on to troubleshoot engineering problems at other Edison utilities being built around France and in Germany.\n\nIn 1884, Edison manager Charles Batchelor, who had been overseeing the Paris installation, was brought back to the US to manage the Edison Machine Works, a manufacturing division situated in New York City, and asked that Tesla be brought to the US as well. In June 1884, Tesla emigrated to the United States. He began working almost immediately at the Machine Works on Manhattan's Lower East Side, an overcrowded shop with a workforce of several hundred machinists, laborers, managing staff, and 20 \"field engineers\" struggling with the task of building the large electric utility in that city. As in Paris, Tesla was working on troubleshooting installations and improving generators. Historian W. Bernard Carlson notes Tesla may have met company founder Thomas Alva Edison only a couple of times. One of those times was noted in Tesla's autobiography where, after staying up all night repairing the damaged dynamos on the ocean liner SS \"Oregon\", he ran into Batchelor and Edison, who made a quip about their \"Parisian\" being out all night. After Tesla told them he had been up all night fixing the \"Oregon\" Edison commented to Batchelor that \"this is a damned good man.\" One of the projects given to Tesla was to develop an arc lamp-based street lighting system. Arc lighting was the most popular type of street lighting but it required high voltages and was incompatible with the Edison low-voltage incandescent system, causing the company to lose contracts in cities that wanted street lighting as well. Tesla's designs were never put into production, possibly because of technical improvements in incandescent street lighting or because of an installation deal that Edison cut with an arc lighting company.\n\nTesla had been working at the Machine Works for a total of six months when he quit. What event precipitated his leaving is unclear. It may have been over a bonus he did not receive, either for redesigning generators or for the arc lighting system that was shelved. Tesla had previous run-ins with the Edison company over unpaid bonuses he believed he had earned. In his own biography, Tesla stated the manager of the Edison Machine Works offered a $50,000 bonus to design \"twenty-four different types of standard machines\" \"but it turned out to be a practical joke\". Later versions of this story have Thomas Edison himself offering and then reneging on the deal, quipping \"Tesla, you don't understand our American humor.\" The size of the bonus in either story has been noted as odd since Machine Works manager Batchelor was stingy with pay and the company did not have that amount of cash (equivalent to $12 million today) on hand. Tesla's diary contains just one comment on what happened at the end of his employment, a note he scrawled across the two pages covering 7 December 1884, to 4 January 1885, saying \"Good by to the Edison Machine Works\".\n\nSoon after leaving the Edison company, Tesla was working on patenting an arc lighting system, possibly the same one he had developed at Edison. In March 1885, he met with patent attorney Lemuel W. Serrell, the same attorney used by Edison, to obtain help with submitting the patents. Serrell introduced Tesla to two businessmen, Robert Lane and Benjamin Vail, who agreed to finance an arc lighting manufacturing and utility company in Tesla's name, the Tesla Electric Light & Manufacturing. Tesla worked for the rest of the year obtaining the patents that included an improved DC generator, the first patents issued to Tesla in the US, and building and installing the system in Rahway, New Jersey Tesla's new system gained notice in the technical press, which commented on its advanced features.\n\nThe investors showed little interest in Tesla's ideas for new types of alternating current motors and electrical transmission equipment. After the utility was up and running in 1886, they decided that the manufacturing side of the business was too competitive and opted to simply run an electric utility. They formed a new utility company, abandoning Tesla's company and leaving the inventor penniless. Tesla even lost control of the patents he had generated, since he had assigned them to the company in exchange for stock. He had to work at various electrical repair jobs and as a ditch digger for $2 per day. Later in life Tesla would recount that part of 1886 as a time of hardship, writing \"My high education in various branches of science, mechanics and literature seemed to me like a mockery\".\n\nIn late 1886, Tesla met Alfred S. Brown, a Western Union superintendent, and New York attorney Charles F. Peck. The two men were experienced in setting up companies and promoting inventions and patents for financial gain. Based on Tesla's new ideas for electrical equipment, including a thermo-magnetic motor idea, they agreed to back the inventor financially and handle his patents. Together they formed the Tesla Electric Company in April 1887, with an agreement that profits from generated patents would go 1/3 to Tesla, 1/3 to Peck and Brown, and 1/3 to fund development. They set up a laboratory for Tesla at 89 Liberty Street in Manhattan, where he worked on improving and developing new types of electric motors, generators, and other devices.\n\nIn 1887, Tesla developed an induction motor that ran on alternating current (AC), a power system format that was rapidly expanding in Europe and the United States because of its advantages in long-distance, high-voltage transmission. The motor used polyphase current, which generated a rotating magnetic field to turn the motor (a principle that Tesla claimed to have conceived in 1882). This innovative electric motor, patented in May 1888, was a simple self-starting design that did not need a commutator, thus avoiding sparking and the high maintenance of constantly servicing and replacing mechanical brushes.\n\nAlong with getting the motor patented, Peck and Brown arranged to get the motor publicized, starting with independent testing to verify it was a functional improvement, followed by press releases sent to technical publications for articles to run concurrent with the issue of the patent. Physicist William Arnold Anthony (who tested the motor) and \"Electrical World\" magazine editor Thomas Commerford Martin arranged for Tesla to demonstrate his AC motor on 16 May 1888 at the American Institute of Electrical Engineers. Engineers working for the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company reported to George Westinghouse that Tesla had a viable AC motor and related power system – something Westinghouse needed for the alternating current system he was already marketing. Westinghouse looked into getting a patent on a similar commutator-less, rotating magnetic field-based induction motor developed in 1885 and presented in a paper in March 1888 by Italian physicist Galileo Ferraris, but decided that Tesla's patent would probably control the market.\nIn July 1888, Brown and Peck negotiated a licensing deal with George Westinghouse for Tesla's polyphase induction motor and transformer designs for $60,000 in cash and stock and a royalty of $2.50 per AC horsepower produced by each motor. Westinghouse also hired Tesla for one year for the large fee of $2,000 ($ in today's dollars) per month to be a consultant at the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company's Pittsburgh labs.\n\nDuring that year, Tesla worked in Pittsburgh, helping to create an alternating current system to power the city's streetcars. He found it a frustrating period because of conflicts with the other Westinghouse engineers over how best to implement AC power. Between them, they settled on a 60-cycle AC system that Tesla proposed (to match the working frequency of Tesla's motor), but they soon found that it would not work for streetcars, since Tesla's induction motor could run only at a constant speed. They ended up using a DC traction motor instead.\n\nTesla's demonstration of his induction motor and Westinghouse's subsequent licensing of the patent, both in 1888, came at the time of extreme competition between electric companies. The three big firms, Westinghouse, Edison, and Thomson-Houston, were trying to grow in a capital-intensive business while financially undercutting each other. There was even a \"War of Currents\" propaganda campaign going on with Edison Electric trying to claim their direct current system was better and safer than the Westinghouse alternating current system. Competing in this market meant Westinghouse would not have the cash or engineering resources to develop Tesla's motor and the related polyphase system right away.\n\nTwo years after signing the Tesla contract, Westinghouse Electric was in trouble. The near collapse of Barings Bank in London triggered the financial panic of 1890, causing investors to call in their loans to W.E. The sudden cash shortage forced the company to refinance its debts. The new lenders demanded that Westinghouse cut back on what looked like excessive spending on acquisition of other companies, research, and patents, including the per motor royalty in the Tesla contract. At that point, the Tesla induction motor had been unsuccessful and was stuck in development. Westinghouse was paying a $15,000-a-year guaranteed royalty even though operating examples of the motor were rare and polyphase power systems needed to run it were even rarer. In early 1891, George Westinghouse explained his financial difficulties to Tesla in stark terms, saying that, if he did not meet the demands of his lenders, he would no longer be in control of Westinghouse Electric and Tesla would have to \"deal with the bankers\" to try to collect future royalties. The advantages of having Westinghouse continue to champion the motor probably seemed obvious to Tesla and he agreed to release the company from the royalty payment clause in the contract. Six years later Westinghouse would purchase Tesla's patent for a lump sum payment of $216,000 as part of a patent-sharing agreement signed with General Electric (a company created from the 1892 merger of Edison and Thomson-Houston).\n\nThe money Tesla made from licensing his AC patents made him independently wealthy and gave him the time and funds to pursue his own interests. In 1889, Tesla moved out of the Liberty Street shop Peck and Brown had rented and for the next dozen years would work out of a series of workshop/laboratory spaces in Manhattan. These included a lab at 175 Grand Street (1889–1892), the fourth floor of 33–35 South Fifth Avenue (1892–1895), and sixth and seventh floors of 46 & 48 East Houston Street (1895–1902). Tesla and his hired staff would conduct some of his most significant work in these workshops.\n\nIn the summer of 1889, Tesla traveled to the 1889 Exposition Universelle in Paris and learned of Heinrich Hertz' 1886–88 experiments that proved the existence of electromagnetic radiation, including radio waves. Tesla found this new discovery \"refreshing\" and decided to explore it more fully. In repeating, and then expanding on, these experiments, Tesla tried powering a Ruhmkorff coil with a high speed alternator he had been developing as part of an improved arc lighting system but found that the high frequency current overheated the iron core and melted the insulation between the primary and secondary windings in the coil. To fix this problem Tesla came up with his Tesla coil with an air gap instead of insulating material between the primary and secondary windings and an iron core that could be moved to different positions in or out of the coil.\n\nOn 30 July 1891, aged 35, Tesla became a naturalized citizen of the United States. In the same year, he patented his Tesla coil.\n\nAfter 1890, Tesla experimented with transmitting power by inductive and capacitive coupling using high AC voltages generated with his Tesla coil. He attempted to develop a wireless lighting system based on near-field inductive and capacitive coupling and conducted a series of public demonstrations where he lit Geissler tubes and even incandescent light bulbs from across a stage. He would spend most of the decade working on variations of this new form of lighting with the help of various investors but none of the ventures succeeded in making a commercial product out of his findings.\n\nIn 1893 at St. Louis, Missouri, the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and the National Electric Light Association, Tesla told onlookers that he was sure a system like his could eventually conduct \"intelligible signals or perhaps even power to any distance without the use of wires\" by conducting it through the Earth.\n\nTesla served as a vice-president of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers from 1892 to 1894, the forerunner of the modern-day IEEE (along with the Institute of Radio Engineers).\n\nTrying to come up with a better way to generate alternating current, Tesla developed a steam powered reciprocating electricity generator. He patented it in 1893 and introduced it at the Chicago World's Columbian Exposition that year. Steam would be forced into the oscillator and rush out through a series of ports, pushing a piston up and down that was attached to an armature. The magnetic armature vibrated up and down at high speed, producing an alternating magnetic field. This induced alternating electric current in the wire coils located adjacent. It did away with the complicated parts of a steam engine/generator, but never caught on as a feasible engineering solution to generate electricity.\n\nAt the beginning of 1893, Westinghouse engineer Benjamin Lamme had made great progress developing an efficient version of Tesla's induction motor, and Westinghouse Electric started branding their complete polyphase AC system as the \"Tesla Polyphase System\". They believed that Tesla's patents gave them patent priority over other AC systems.\n\nWestinghouse Electric asked Tesla to participate in the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago where the company had a large space in a building devoted to electrical exhibits. Westinghouse Electric won the bid to light the Exposition with alternating current and it was a key event in the history of AC power, as the company demonstrated to the American public the safety, reliability, and efficiency of a fully integrated alternating current system. Tesla showed a series of electrical effects related to alternating current as well as his wireless lighting system, using a demonstration he had previously performed throughout America and Europe; these included using high-voltage, high-frequency alternating current to light a wireless gas-discharge lamp.\n\nAn observer noted:\n\nTesla also explained the principles of the rotating magnetic field in an induction motor by demonstrating how to make a copper egg stand on end, using a device that he constructed known as the \"Egg of Columbus\" and introduced his new steam powered oscillator AC generator.\n\nIn 1893, Edward Dean Adams, who headed up the Niagara Falls Cataract Construction Company, sought Tesla's opinion on what system would be best to transmit power generated at the falls. Over several years, there had been a series of proposals and open competitions on how best to use power generated by the falls. Among the systems proposed by several US and European companies were two-phase and three-phase AC, high-voltage DC, and compressed air. Adams pumped Tesla for information about the current state of all the competing systems. Tesla advised Adams that a two-phased system would be the most reliable, and that there was a Westinghouse system to light incandescent bulbs using two-phase alternating current. The company awarded a contract to Westinghouse Electric for building a two-phase AC generating system at the Niagara Falls, based on Tesla's advice and Westinghouse's demonstration at the Columbian Exposition that they could build a complete AC system. At the same time, a further contract was awarded to General Electric to build the AC distribution system.\n\nIn 1895, Edward Dean Adams, impressed with what he saw when he toured Tesla's lab, agreed to help found the Nikola Tesla Company, set up to fund, develop, and market a variety of previous Tesla patents and inventions as well as new ones. Alfred Brown signed on, bringing along patents developed under Peck and Brown. The board was filled out with William Birch Rankine and Charles F. Coaney. It found few investors; the mid-1890s was a tough time financially, and the wireless lighting and oscillators patents it was set up to market never panned out. The company would handle Tesla's patents for decades to come.\n\nIn the early morning hours of 13 March 1895, the South Fifth Avenue building that housed Tesla's lab caught fire. It started in the basement of the building and was so intense Tesla's 4th floor lab burned and collapsed into the second floor. The fire not only set back Tesla's ongoing projects, it destroyed a collection of early notes and research material, models, and demonstration pieces, including many that had been exhibited at the 1893 Worlds Colombian Exposition. Tesla told \"The New York Times\" \"I am in too much grief to talk. What can I say?\" After the fire Tesla moved to 46 & 48 East Houston Street and rebuilt his lab on the 6th and 7th floors.\n\nStarting in 1894, Tesla began investigating what he referred to as radiant energy of \"invisible\" kinds after he had noticed damaged film in his laboratory in previous experiments (later identified as \"Roentgen rays\" or \"X-Rays\"). His early experiments were with Crookes tubes, a cold cathode electrical discharge tube. Tesla may have inadvertently captured an X-ray image—predating, by a few weeks, Wilhelm Röntgen's December 1895 announcement of the discovery of X-rays when he tried to photograph Mark Twain illuminated by a Geissler tube, an earlier type of gas discharge tube. The only thing captured in the image was the metal locking screw on the camera lens.\n\nIn March 1896, after hearing of Wilhelm Röntgen's discovery of X-ray and X-ray imaging (radiography), Tesla proceeded to do his own experiments in X-ray imaging, developing a high energy single terminal vacuum tube of his own design that had no target electrode and that worked from the output of the Tesla Coil (the modern term for the phenomenon produced by this device is \"bremsstrahlung\" or \"braking radiation\"). In his research, Tesla devised several experimental setups to produce X-rays. Tesla held that, with his circuits, the \"instrument will ... enable one to generate Roentgen rays of much greater power than obtainable with ordinary apparatus.\"\n\nTesla noted the hazards of working with his circuit and single-node X-ray-producing devices. In his many notes on the early investigation of this phenomenon, he attributed the skin damage to various causes. He believed early on that damage to the skin was not caused by the Roentgen rays, but by the ozone generated in contact with the skin, and to a lesser extent, by nitrous acid. Tesla incorrectly believed that X-rays were longitudinal waves, such as those produced in waves in plasmas. These plasma waves can occur in force-free magnetic fields.\n\nOn 11 July 1934, the \"New York Herald Tribune\" published an article on Tesla, in which he recalled an event that would occasionally take place while experimenting with his single-electrode vacuum tubes; a minute particle would break off the cathode, pass out of the tube, and physically strike him:\n\nTesla said he could feel a sharp stinging pain where it entered his body, and again at the place where it passed out. In comparing these particles with the bits of metal projected by his \"electric gun,\" Tesla said, \"The particles in the beam of force ... will travel much faster than such particles ... and they will travel in concentrations.\"\n\nIn 1898, Tesla demonstrated a boat that used a coherer-based radio control—which he dubbed \"telautomaton\"—to the public during an electrical exhibition at Madison Square Garden. The crowd that witnessed the demonstration made outrageous claims about the workings of the boat, such as magic, telepathy, and being piloted by a trained monkey hidden inside. Tesla tried to sell his idea to the U.S. military as a type of radio-controlled torpedo, but they showed little interest. Remote radio control remained a novelty until World War I and afterward, when a number of countries used it in military programs. Tesla took the opportunity to further demonstrate \"Teleautomatics\" in an address to a meeting of the Commercial Club in Chicago, while he was travelling to Colorado Springs, on 13 May 1899.\n\nFrom the 1890s through 1906, Tesla spent a great deal of his time and fortune on a series of projects trying to develop the transmission of electrical power without wires. It was an expansion of his idea of using coils to transmit power that he had been demonstrating in wireless lighting. He saw this as not only a way to transmit large amounts of power around the world but also, as he had pointed out in his earlier lectures, a way to transmit worldwide communications.\n\nAt the time Tesla was formulating his ideas, there was no feasible way to wirelessly transmit communication signals over long distances, let alone large amounts of power. Tesla had studied radio waves early on, and came to the conclusion that part of existing study on them, by Hertz, was incorrect. Also, this new form of radiation was widely considered at the time to be a short-distance phenomenon that seemed to die out in less than a mile. Tesla noted that, even if theories on radio waves were true, they were totally worthless for his intended purposes since this form of \"invisible light\" would diminish over distance just like any other radiation and would travel in straight lines right out into space, becoming \"hopelessly lost\".\n\nBy the mid 1890s, Tesla was working on the idea that he might be able to conduct electricity long distance through the Earth or the atmosphere, and began working on experiments to test this idea including setting up a large resonance transformer magnifying transmitter in his East Houston Street lab. Seeming to borrow from a common idea at the time that the Earth's atmosphere was conductive, he proposed a system composed of balloons suspending, transmitting, and receiving, electrodes in the air above in altitude, where he thought the lower pressure would allow him to send high voltages (millions of volts) long distances.\n\nTo further study the conductive nature of low pressure air, Tesla set up an experimental station at high altitude in Colorado Springs during 1899. There he could safely operate much larger coils than in the cramped confines of his New York lab, and an associate had made an arrangement for the El Paso Power Company to supply alternating current free of charge. To fund his experiments he convinced John Jacob Astor IV to invest $100,000 to become a majority share holder in the Nikola Tesla Company. Astor thought he was primarily investing in the new wireless lighting system. Instead, Tesla used the money to fund his Colorado Springs experiments. Upon his arrival, he told reporters that he planned to conduct wireless telegraphy experiments, transmitting signals from Pikes Peak to Paris.\n\nThere he conducted experiments with a large coil operating in the megavolts range, producing artificial lightning (and thunder) consisting of millions of volts and up to long discharges and, at one point, inadvertently burned out the generator in El Paso, causing a power outage. The observations he made of the electronic noise of lightning strikes, led him to (incorrectly) conclude that he could use the entire globe of the Earth to conduct electrical energy.\n\nDuring his time at his laboratory, Tesla observed unusual signals from his receiver which he speculated to be communications from another planet. He mentioned them in a letter to a reporter in December 1899 and to the Red Cross Society in December 1900. Reporters treated it as a sensational story and jumped to the conclusion Tesla was hearing signals from Mars. He expanded on the signals he heard in a 9 February 1901 \"Collier's Weekly\" article \"Talking With Planets\" where he said it had not been immediately apparent to him that he was hearing \"intelligently controlled signals\" and that the signals could come from Mars, Venus, or other planets. It has been hypothesized that he may have intercepted Guglielmo Marconi's European experiments in July 1899—Marconi may have transmitted the letter S (dot/dot/dot) in a naval demonstration, the same three impulses that Tesla hinted at hearing in Colorado—or signals from another experimenter in wireless transmission.\n\nTesla had an agreement with the editor of \"The Century Magazine\" to produce an article on his findings. The magazine sent a photographer to Colorado to photograph the work being done there. The article, titled \"The Problem of Increasing Human Energy\", appeared in the June 1900 edition of the magazine. He explained the superiority of the wireless system he envisioned but the article was more of a lengthy philosophical treatise than an understandable scientific description of his work, illustrated with what were to become iconic images of Tesla and his Colorado Springs experiments.\n\nTesla made the rounds in New York trying to find investors for what he thought would be a viable system of wireless transmission, wining and dining them at the Waldorf-Astoria's Palm Garden (the hotel where he was living at the time), The Players Club, and Delmonico's. In March 1901, he obtained $150,000 ($ in today's dollars) from J. Pierpont Morgan in return for a 51% share of any generated wireless patents, and began planning the Wardenclyffe Tower facility to be built in Shoreham, New York, east of the city on the North Shore of Long Island.\n\nBy July 1901, Tesla had expanded his plans to build a more powerful transmitter to leap ahead of Marconi's radio based system, which Tesla thought was a copy of his own system. He approached Morgan to ask for more money to build the larger system but Morgan refused to supply any further funds. In December 1901, Marconi successfully transmitted the letter S from England to Newfoundland, defeating Tesla in the race to be first to complete such a transmission. A month after Marconi's success, Tesla tried to get Morgan to back an even larger plan to transmit messages and power by controlling \"vibrations throughout the globe\". Over the next five years, Tesla wrote more than 50 letters to Morgan, pleading for and demanding additional funding to complete the construction of Wardenclyffe. Tesla continued the project for another nine months into 1902. The tower was erected to its full . In June 1902, Tesla moved his lab operations from Houston Street to Wardenclyffe.\n\nInvestors on Wall Street were putting their money into Marconi's system, and some in the press began turning against Tesla's project, claiming it was a hoax. The project came to a halt in 1905, and in 1906, the financial problems and other events may have led to what Tesla biographer Marc J. Seifer suspects was a nervous breakdown on Tesla's part. Tesla mortgaged the Wardenclyffe property to cover his debts at the Waldorf-Astoria, which eventually mounted to $20,000 ($ in today's dollars). He lost the property in foreclosure in 1915, and in 1917 the Tower was demolished by the new owner to make the land a more viable real estate asset.\n\nAfter Wardencyiffe closed, Tesla continued to write to Morgan; after \"the great man\" died, Tesla wrote to Morgan's son Jack, trying to get further funding for the project. In 1906, Tesla opened offices at 165 Broadway in Manhattan, trying to raise further funds by developing and marketing his patents. He went on to have offices at the Metropolitan Life Tower from 1910 to 1914; rented for a few months at the Woolworth Building, moving out because he could not afford the rent; and then to office space at 8 West 40th Street from 1915 to 1925. After moving to 8 West 40th Street, he was effectively bankrupt. Most of his patents had run out and he was having trouble with the new inventions he was trying to develop.\n\nOn his 50th birthday, in 1906, Tesla demonstrated a 16,000 rpm bladeless turbine. During 1910–1911 at the \"Waterside Power Station\" in New York, several of his bladeless turbine engines were tested at 100–5,000 hp. Tesla worked with several companies including the period 1919–1922 working in Milwaukee for Allis-Chalmers. He spent most of his time trying to perfect the Tesla turbine with Hans Dahlstrand, the head engineer at the company, but engineering difficulties meant it was never made into a practical device. Tesla did license the idea to a precision instrument company and it found use in the form of luxury car speedometers and other instruments.\n\nWhen World War I broke out, the British cut the transatlantic telegraph cable linking the US to Germany in order to control the flow of information between the two countries. They also tried to shut off German wireless communication to and from the US by having the US Marconi Company sue the German radio company Telefunken for patent infringement. Telefunken brought in the physicists Jonathan Zenneck and Karl Ferdinand Braun for their defense, and hired Tesla as a witness for two years for $1,000 a month. The case stalled and then went moot when the US entered the war against Germany in 1917.\n\nIn 1915, Tesla attempted to sue the Marconi Company for infringement of his wireless tuning patents. Marconi's initial radio patent had been awarded in the US in 1897, but his 1900 patent submission covering improvements to radio transmission had been rejected several times, before it was finally approved in 1904, on the grounds that it infringed on other existing patents including two 1897 Tesla wireless power tuning patents. Tesla's 1915 case went nowhere, but in a related case, where the Marconi Company tried to sue the US government over WWI patent infringements, a Supreme Court of the United States 1943 decision restored the prior patents of Oliver Lodge, John Stone, and Tesla. The court declared that their decision had no bearing on Marconi's claim as the first to achieve radio transmission, just that since Marconi's claim to certain patented improvements were questionable, the company could not claim infringement on those same patents.\n\nOn 6 November 1915, a Reuters news agency report from London had the 1915 Nobel Prize in Physics awarded to Thomas Edison and Nikola Tesla; however, on 15 November, a Reuters story from Stockholm stated the prize that year was being awarded to Sir William Henry Bragg and William Lawrence Bragg \"for their services in the analysis of crystal structure by means of X-rays.\" There were unsubstantiated rumors at the time that either Tesla or Edison had refused the prize. The Nobel Foundation said, \"Any rumor that a person has not been given a Nobel Prize because he has made known his intention to refuse the reward is ridiculous\"; a recipient could decline a Nobel Prize only after he is announced a winner.\n\nThere have been subsequent claims by Tesla biographers that Edison and Tesla were the original recipients and that neither was given the award because of their animosity toward each other; that each sought to minimize the other's achievements and right to win the award; that both refused ever to accept the award if the other received it first; that both rejected any possibility of sharing it; and even that a wealthy Edison refused it to keep Tesla from getting the $20,000 prize money.\n\nIn the years after these rumors, neither Tesla nor Edison won the prize (although Edison did receive one of 38 possible bids in 1915 and Tesla did receive one of 38 possible bids in 1937).\n\nTesla won numerous medals and awards over this time. They include:\n\nTesla attempted to market several devices based on the production of ozone. These included his 1900 Tesla Ozone Company selling an 1896 patented device based on his Tesla Coil, used to bubble ozone through different types of oils to make a therapeutic gel. He also tried to develop a variation of this a few years later as a room sanitizer for hospitals.\n\nTesla theorized that the application of electricity to the brain enhanced intelligence. In 1912, he crafted \"a plan to make dull students bright by saturating them unconsciously with electricity,\" wiring the walls of a schoolroom and, \"saturating [the schoolroom] with infinitesimal electric waves vibrating at high frequency. The whole room will thus, Mr. Tesla claims, be converted into a health-giving and stimulating electromagnetic field or 'bath.'\" The plan was, at least provisionally, approved by then superintendent of New York City schools, William H. Maxwell.\n\nBefore World War I, Tesla sought overseas investors. After the war started, Tesla lost the funding he was receiving from his patents in European countries.\n\nIn the August 1917 edition of the magazine \"Electrical Experimenter\", Tesla postulated that electricity could be used to locate submarines via using the reflection of an \"electric ray\" of \"tremendous frequency,\" with the signal being viewed on a fluorescent screen (a system that has been noted to have a superficial resemblance to modern radar). Tesla was incorrect in his assumption that high frequency radio waves would penetrate water. Émile Girardeau, who helped develop France's first radar system in the 1930s, noted in 1953 that Tesla's general speculation that a very strong high-frequency signal would be needed was correct. Girardeau said, \"(Tesla) was prophesying or dreaming, since he had at his disposal no means of carrying them out, but one must add that if he was dreaming, at least he was dreaming correctly.\"\n\nIn 1928, Tesla received , for a biplane capable of taking off vertically (VTOL aircraft) and then of being \"gradually tilted through manipulation of the elevator devices\" in flight until it was flying like a conventional plane. Tesla thought the plane would sell for less than $1,000, although the aircraft has been described as impractical. This would be his last patent and at this time Tesla closed his last office at 350 Madison Ave., which he had moved into two years earlier.\n\nSince 1900, Tesla had been living at the Waldorf Astoria in New York running up a large bill. In 1922, he moved to St. Regis Hotel and would follow a pattern from then on of moving to a new hotel every few years leaving behind unpaid bills.\n\nTesla would walk to the park every day to feed the pigeons. He took to feeding them at the window of his hotel room and bringing the injured ones in to nurse back to health. He said that he had been visited by a specific injured white pigeon daily. Tesla spent over $2,000, including building a device that comfortably supported her so her bones could heal, to fix her broken wing and leg. Tesla stated:\n\nTesla's unpaid bills, and complaints about the mess from his pigeon-feeding, forced him to leave the St. Regis in 1923, the Hotel Pennsylvania in 1930, and the Hotel Governor Clinton in 1934. At one point, he also took rooms at the Hotel Marguery.\n\nIn 1934, Tesla moved to the Hotel New Yorker, and Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Company began paying him $125 per month as well as paying his rent, expenses the Company would pay for the rest of Tesla's life. Accounts of how this came about vary. Several sources say Westinghouse was worried (or warned) about potential bad publicity surrounding the impoverished conditions under which their former star inventor was living. The payment has been described as being couched as a \"consulting fee\" to get around Tesla's aversion to accept charity, or by one biographer (Marc Seifer) as a type of unspecified settlement.\n\nIn 1931, Kenneth Swezey, a young writer who had been associated with Tesla for some time, organized a celebration for the inventor's 75th birthday. Tesla received congratulatory letters from more than 70 pioneers in science and engineering, including Albert Einstein, and he was also featured on the cover of \"Time\" magazine. The cover caption \"All the world's his power house\" noted his contribution to electrical power generation. The party went so well that Tesla made it an annual event, an occasion where he would put out a large spread of food and drink (featuring dishes of his own creation) and invite the press to see his inventions and hear stories about past exploits, views on current events, or sometimes odd or baffling claims.\nAt the 1932 occasion, Tesla claimed he had invented a motor that would run on cosmic rays. In 1933, at age 77, Tesla told reporters that, after thirty-five years of work, he was on the verge of producing proof of a new form of energy. He claimed it was a theory of energy that was \"violently opposed\" to Einsteinian physics, and could be tapped with an apparatus that would be cheap to run and last 500 years. He also told reporters he was working on a way to transmit individualized private radio wavelengths, working on breakthroughs in metallurgy, and developing a way to photograph the retina to record thought.\n\nAt the 1934 party, Tesla told reporters he had designed a superweapon he claimed would end all war. He would call it \"teleforce\", but was usually referred to as his death ray. Tesla described it as a defensive weapon that would be put up along the border of a country to be used against attacking ground-based infantry or aircraft. Tesla never revealed detailed plans of how the weapon worked during his lifetime, but in 1984, they surfaced at the Nikola Tesla Museum archive in Belgrade. The treatise, \"The New Art of Projecting Concentrated Non-dispersive Energy through the Natural Media\", described an open-ended vacuum tube with a gas jet seal that allows particles to exit, a method of charging slugs of tungsten or mercury to millions of volts, and directing them in streams (through electrostatic repulsion). Tesla tried to interest the US War Department, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, and Yugoslavia in the device.\n\nIn 1935, at his 79th birthday party, Tesla covered many topics. He claimed to have discovered the cosmic ray in 1896 and invented a way to produce direct current by induction, and made many claims about his mechanical oscillator. Describing the device (which he expected would earn him $100 million within two years) he told reporters that a version of his oscillator had caused an earthquake in his 46 East Houston Street lab and neighboring streets in downtown New York City in 1898. He went on to tell reporters his oscillator could destroy the Empire State Building with 5 lbs of air pressure. He also explained a new technique he developed using his oscillators he called \"Telegeodynamics\", using it to transmit vibrations into the ground that he claimed would work over any distance to be used for communication or locating underground mineral deposits.\n\nAt his 1937 celebration in the Grand Ballroom of Hotel New Yorker, Tesla received the \"Order of the White Lion\" from the Czechoslovakia ambassador and a medal from the Yugoslavian ambassador. On questions concerning the death ray, Tesla stated, \"But it is not an experiment ... I have built, demonstrated and used it. Only a little time will pass before I can give it to the world.\"\n\nIn the fall of 1937, after midnight one night, Tesla left the Hotel New Yorker to make his regular commute to the cathedral and the library to feed the pigeons. While crossing a street a couple of blocks from the hotel, Tesla was unable to dodge a moving taxicab and was thrown to the ground. His back was severely wrenched and three of his ribs were broken in the accident. The full extent of his injuries were never known; Tesla refused to consult a doctor, an almost lifelong custom, and never fully recovered.\n\nOn 7 January 1943, at the age of 86, Tesla died alone in Room 3327 of the New Yorker Hotel. His body was later found by maid Alice Monaghan after she had entered Tesla's room, ignoring the \"do not disturb\" sign that Tesla had placed on his door two days earlier. Assistant medical examiner H.W. Wembley examined the body and ruled that the cause of death had been coronary thrombosis.\n\nTwo days later the Federal Bureau of Investigation ordered the Alien Property Custodian to seize Tesla's belongings. John G. Trump, a professor at M.I.T. and a well-known electrical engineer serving as a technical aide to the National Defense Research Committee, was called in to analyze the Tesla items, which were being held in custody. After a three-day investigation, Trump's report concluded that there was nothing which would constitute a hazard in unfriendly hands, stating:\n\nIn a box purported to contain a part of Tesla's \"death ray\", Trump found a 45-year-old multidecade resistance box.\n\nOn 10 January 1943, New York City mayor Fiorello La Guardia read a eulogy written by Slovene-American author Louis Adamic live over the WNYC radio while violin pieces \"Ave Maria\" and \"Tamo daleko\" were played in the background. On 12 January, two thousand people attended a state funeral for Tesla at the Cathedral of Saint John the Divine. After the funeral, Tesla's body was taken to the Ferncliff Cemetery in Ardsley, New York, where it was later cremated. The following day, a second service was conducted by prominent priests in the Trinity Chapel (today's Serbian Orthodox Cathedral of Saint Sava) in New York City.\n\nIn 1952, following pressure from Tesla's nephew, Sava Kosanović, Tesla's entire estate was shipped to Belgrade in 80 trunks marked N.T. In 1957, Kosanović's secretary Charlotte Muzar transported Tesla's ashes from the United States to Belgrade. The ashes are displayed in a gold-plated sphere on a marble pedestal in the Nikola Tesla Museum.\n\nTesla obtained around 300 patents worldwide for his inventions. Some of Tesla's patents are not accounted for, and various sources have discovered some that have lain hidden in patent archives. There are a minimum of 278 known patents issued to Tesla in 26 countries. Many of Tesla's patents were in the United States, Britain, and Canada, but many other patents were approved in countries around the globe. Many inventions developed by Tesla were not put into patent protection.\n\nTesla worked every day from 9:00a.m. until 6:00p.m. or later, with dinner from exactly 8:10 p.m., at Delmonico's restaurant and later the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. Tesla would telephone his dinner order to the headwaiter, who also could be the only one to serve him. \"The meal was required to be ready at eight o'clock ... He dined alone, except on the rare occasions when he would give a dinner to a group to meet his social obligations. Tesla would then resume his work, often until 3:00a.m.\"\n\nFor exercise, Tesla walked between per day. He curled his toes one hundred times for each foot every night, saying that it stimulated his brain cells.\n\nIn an interview with newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane, Tesla said that he did not believe in telepathy, stating, \"Suppose I made up my mind to murder you,\" he said, \"In a second you would know it. Now, isn't that wonderful? By what process does the mind get at all this?\" In the same interview, Tesla said that he believed that all fundamental laws could be reduced to one.\n\nTesla became a vegetarian in his later years, living on only milk, bread, honey, and vegetable juices.\n\nTesla was tall and weighed , with almost no weight variance from 1888 to about 1926. His appearance was described by newspaper editor Arthur Brisbane as \"almost the tallest, almost the thinnest and certainly the most serious man who goes to Delmonico's regularly\". He was an elegant, stylish figure in New York City, meticulous in his grooming, clothing, and regimented in his daily activities, an appearance he maintained as to further his business relationships. He was also described as having light eyes, \"very big hands\", and \"remarkably big\" thumbs.\n\nTesla read many works, memorizing complete books, and supposedly possessed a photographic memory. He was a polyglot, speaking eight languages: Serbo-Croatian, Czech, English, French, German, Hungarian, Italian, and Latin. Tesla related in his autobiography that he experienced detailed moments of inspiration. During his early life, Tesla was repeatedly stricken with illness. He suffered a peculiar affliction in which blinding flashes of light would appear before his eyes, often accompanied by visions. Often, the visions were linked to a word or idea he might have come across; at other times they would provide the solution to a particular problem he had encountered. Just by hearing the name of an item, he would be able to envision it in realistic detail. Tesla would visualize an invention in his mind with extreme precision, including all dimensions, before moving to the construction stage, a technique sometimes known as picture thinking. He typically did not make drawings by hand but worked from memory. Beginning in his childhood, Tesla had frequent flashbacks to events that had happened previously in his life.\n\nTesla claimed never to sleep more than two hours per night. However, he did admit to \"dozing\" from time to time \"to recharge his batteries.\" During his second year of study at Graz, Tesla developed a passionate proficiency for billiards, chess, and card-playing, sometimes spending more than 48 hours in a stretch at a gaming table. On one occasion at his laboratory, Tesla worked for a period of 84 hours without rest. Kenneth Swezey, a journalist whom Tesla had befriended, confirmed that Tesla rarely slept. Swezey recalled one morning when Tesla called him at 3 a.m.: \"I was sleeping in my room like one dead ... Suddenly, the telephone ring awakened me ... [Tesla] spoke animatedly, with pauses, [as he] ... work[ed] out a problem, comparing one theory to another, commenting; and when he felt he had arrived at the solution, he suddenly closed the telephone.\"\n\nTesla never married, explaining that his chastity was very helpful to his scientific abilities. He once said in earlier years that he felt he could never be worthy enough for a woman, considering women superior in every way. His opinion had started to sway in later years when he felt that women were trying to outdo men and make themselves more dominant. This \"new woman\" was met with much indignation from Tesla, who felt that women were losing their femininity by trying to be in power. In an interview with the \"Galveston Daily News\" on 10 August 1924 he stated, \"In place of the soft voiced, gentle woman of my reverent worship, has come the woman who thinks that her chief success in life lies in making herself as much as possible like man—in dress, voice and actions, in sports and achievements of every kind ... The tendency of women to push aside man, supplanting the old spirit of cooperation with him in all the affairs of life, is very disappointing to me\". Although he told a reporter in later years that he sometimes felt that by not marrying, he had made too great a sacrifice to his work, Tesla chose to never pursue or engage in any known relationships, instead finding all the stimulation he needed in his work.\n\nTesla was asocial and prone to seclude himself with his work. However, when he did engage in a social life, many people spoke very positively and admiringly of Tesla. Robert Underwood Johnson described him as attaining a \"distinguished sweetness, sincerity, modesty, refinement, generosity, and force.\" His secretary, Dorothy Skerrit, wrote: \"his genial smile and nobility of bearing always denoted the gentlemanly characteristics that were so ingrained in his soul.\" Tesla's friend, Julian Hawthorne, wrote, \"seldom did one meet a scientist or engineer who was also a poet, a philosopher, an appreciator of fine music, a linguist, and a connoisseur of food and drink.\"\n\nTesla was a good friend of Francis Marion Crawford, Robert Underwood Johnson, Stanford White, Fritz Lowenstein, George Scherff, and Kenneth Swezey. In middle age, Tesla became a close friend of Mark Twain; they spent a lot of time together in his lab and elsewhere. Twain notably described Tesla's induction motor invention as \"the most valuable patent since the telephone.\" In the late 1920s, Tesla befriended George Sylvester Viereck, a poet, writer, mystic, and later, a Nazi propagandist. Tesla occasionally attended dinner parties held by Viereck and his wife.\n\nTesla could be harsh at times and openly expressed disgust for overweight people, such as when he fired a secretary because of her weight. He was quick to criticize clothing; on several occasions, Tesla directed a subordinate to go home and change her dress. When Thomas Edison died, in 1931, Tesla contributed the only negative opinion to \"The New York Times\", buried in an extensive coverage of Edison's life:\n\nTesla disagreed with the theory of atoms being composed of smaller subatomic particles, stating there was no such thing as an electron creating an electric charge. He believed that if electrons existed at all, they were some fourth state of matter or \"sub-atom\" that could exist only in an experimental vacuum and that they had nothing to do with electricity. Tesla believed that atoms are immutable—they could not change state or be split in any way. He was a believer in the 19th-century concept of an all-pervasive \"ether\" that transmitted electrical energy.\n\nTesla was generally antagonistic towards theories about the conversion of matter into energy. He was also critical of Einstein's theory of relativity, saying:\n\nTesla claimed to have developed his own physical principle regarding matter and energy that he started working on in 1892, and in 1937, at age 81, claimed in a letter to have completed a \"dynamic theory of gravity\" that \"[would] put an end to idle speculations and false conceptions, as that of curved space.\" He stated that the theory was \"worked out in all details\" and that he hoped to soon give it to the world. Further elucidation of his theory was never found in his writings.\n\nTesla is widely considered by his biographers to have been a humanist in philosophical outlook on top of his gifts as a technological scientist.\nThis did not preclude Tesla, like many of his era, becoming a proponent of an imposed selective breeding version of eugenics.\n\nTesla expressed the belief that human \"pity\" had come to interfere with the natural \"ruthless workings of nature.\" Though his argumentation did not depend on a concept of a \"master race\" or the inherent superiority of one person over another, he advocated for eugenics. In a 1937 interview he stated:\n\nIn 1926, Tesla commented on the ills of the social subservience of women and the struggle of women toward gender equality, and indicated that humanity's future would be run by \"Queen Bees.\" He believed that women would become the dominant sex in the future.\n\nTesla made predictions about the relevant issues of a post-World War I environment in a printed article, \"Science and Discovery are the great Forces which will lead to the Consummation of the War\" (20 December 1914). Tesla believed that the League of Nations was not a remedy for the times and issues.\n\nTesla was raised an Orthodox Christian. Later in life he did not consider himself to be a \"believer in the orthodox sense,\" said he opposed religious fanaticism, and said \"Buddhism and Christianity are the greatest religions both in number of disciples and in importance\". He also said \"To me, the universe is simply a great machine which never came into being and never will end\" and \"what we call 'soul' or 'spirit,' is nothing more than the sum of the functionings of the body. When this functioning ceases, the 'soul' or the 'spirit' ceases likewise\".\n\nTesla wrote a number of books and articles for magazines and journals. Among his books are \"\", compiled and edited by Ben Johnston; \"The Fantastic Inventions of Nikola Tesla\", compiled and edited by David Hatcher Childress; and \"The Tesla Papers\".\n\nMany of Tesla's writings are freely available online, including the article \"The Problem of Increasing Human Energy,\" published in \"The Century Magazine\" in 1900, and the article \"Experiments With Alternate Currents Of High Potential And High Frequency,\" published in his book \"Inventions, Researches and Writings of Nikola Tesla\".\n\nTesla's legacy has endured in books, films, radio, TV, music, live theater, comics, and video games. The impact of the technologies invented or envisioned by Tesla is a recurring theme in several types of science fiction.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12325830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12325830", "title": "Otis Taylor (American football)", "text": "Otis Taylor (American football)\n\nOtis Taylor (born August 11, 1942) is a former American college and professional American football player, for Prairie View A&M University and the American Football League's Kansas City Chiefs. Standing 6-foot-3 and weighing 215 pounds, Taylor possessed sure hands during his career and served as a devastating downfield blocker, springing Chiefs running backs for many long runs.\n\nTaylor was selected in the 1965 AFL draft (Chiefs) and the NFL draft, by the Philadelphia Eagles. After a famous \"baby-sitting\" incident, in which Taylor \"escaped\" from NFL scouts, he was signed for the Chiefs by their legendary scout Lloyd Wells.\n\nTaylor caught five touchdown passes during his rookie year, and followed that up in 1966 by leading the AFL with a 22.4 yd/catch average and finishing second in receiving yards (1,297). At season's end, he was voted First-team All-AFL and was selected for the 1966 AFL All-Star team. Taylor led the AFL in receiving touchdowns in 1967 with 11 and led the NFL in receiving yards in 1971 with 1,110. He made the AFC-NFC Pro Bowl twice and in 1971 was named Consensus All-Pro by the Associated Press (AP), the Newspaper Enterprise Association (NEA), the Pro Football Writers Association (PFWA) and Pro Football Weekly. The PFWA also named him First-team All-Pro for the 1972 season. Taylor ranks second on the Chiefs' all-time list in receptions (410), receiving yards (7,306), receiving touchdowns (57) and 100-yard games (20).\n\nTaylor combined with running back Robert Holmes for what was at the time the longest reception in Chiefs history in 1969 when he caught a pass from quarterback Mike Livingston for 79 yards, then lateraled to Holmes, who carried it another 14 yards for a touchdown. However, Taylor's most memorable highlight from that season came in the fourth and final AFL-NFL World Championship Game on January 11, 1970, when he caught a short pass, turned downfield and stiff-armed his way to a 46-yard touchdown in the Chiefs 23-7 upset victory over the NFL's champion, the Minnesota Vikings, who, before Super Bowl IV, had been dubbed by some as \"the greatest team in pro football history\".\n\n\"Otis made my job easy,\" former Chiefs quarterback and Hall of Famer Len Dawson said. \"If you got the pass to Otis, you knew he'd catch it.\"\n\nThe Professional Football Researchers Association named Taylor to the PRFA Hall of Very Good Class of 2006 \n\nOn November 1, 1970, the Chiefs led the Oakland Raiders 17–14 late in the fourth quarter, and a long run for a first-down run by Dawson apparently sealed victory for the Chiefs in the final minute when Dawson, as he lay on the ground, was speared by Raiders' cheap-shot artist defensive end Ben Davidson, who dove into Dawson with his helmet, provoking Taylor to attack Davidson.\n\nAfter a bench-clearing brawl, offsetting penalties were called, nullifying the first down under the rules in effect at that time. The Chiefs were obliged to punt, and the Raiders tied the game on a George Blanda field goal with eight seconds to play. Davidson's hit against Dawson not only cost the Chiefs a win, but helped Oakland win the AFC West with a season record of 8–4–2, while defending world champion Kansas City finished 7–5–2 and out of the playoffs. The very next season, the rule for offsetting personal foul penalties was changed to separate penalties during the play, and penalties after the play. The rule change was largely due to this play.\n\nAfter his time as a player had come to a close, Taylor became a scout for the Kansas City Chiefs. During the 1987 NFL Player's strike, Taylor was arriving at Arrowhead Stadium and was assaulted by Jack Del Rio, who was a new player to the organization in 1987 and was striking with his teammates. Del Rio mistook Taylor for a replacement player and was told Taylor was actually a Chief's legend and retired player by fans who had come upon the assault. He later pressed charges against Del Rio and the two settled out of court.\n\n"}
{"id": "559640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559640", "title": "Pat Roy Mooney", "text": "Pat Roy Mooney\n\nPat Roy Mooney, for more than thirty years, has worked with civil society organisations on international trade and development issues related to agriculture, biodiversity and new technologies. \nMooney has lived most of his life on the Canadian prairies. \nThe author or co-author of several books on the politics of biotechnology and biodiversity, Pat Mooney received the Right Livelihood Award with Cary Fowler in the Swedish Parliament in 1985. In 1998 Mooney received the Pearson Medal of Peace from Canada’s Governor General. He also received the American \"Giraffe Award\" given to people \"who stick their necks out\". Pat Mooney has no university training, but is widely regarded as an authority on agricultural biodiversity and new technology issues.\n\nTogether with Cary Fowler and Hope Shand, Pat Mooney began working on the \"seeds\" issue in 1977. In 1984, the three co-founded RAFI (Rural Advancement Foundation International), whose name was changed to ETC Group (pronounced \"etcetera\" group) in 2001. ETC Group is a small international CSO addressing the impact of new technologies on vulnerable communities. Mooney’s more recent work has focused on geoengineering, nanotechnology, synthetic biology and global governance of these technologies as well as corporate involvement in their development. ETC has offices in Canada, the United States, and Mexico; and works closely with CSO partners around the world.\n\nHe is a father of five.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35803963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35803963", "title": "Phaedon", "text": "Phaedon\n\nPhaedon (), published in 1767, is a book by the Jewish Enlightenment philosopher Moses Mendelssohn, in which Mendelssohn offers a defense of immortality.\n\n\"Phaedon\" is a defense of the simplicity and immortality of the soul. It is a series of three dialogues, revisiting the Platonic dialogue Phaedo, in which Socrates argues for the immortality of the soul, in preparation for his own death. Many philosophers, including Plotinus, Descartes, and Leibniz, argue that the soul is simple, and that because simples cannot decompose they must be immortal. In the \"Phaedon\", Mendelssohn addresses gaps in earlier versions of this argument (an argument that Kant calls \"the Achilles of Rationalist Psychology\"). The Phaedon contains an original argument for the simplicity of the soul, and also an original argument that simples cannot suddenly disappear. It contains further original arguments that the soul must retain its rational capacities as long as it exists.\n\nMaterialistic views were at the time rampant and fashionable, and faith in immortality was at a low ebb. At this favourable juncture appeared Phädon oder über die Unsterblichkeit der Seele (Phaedo or On the Immortality of Souls; 1767). Modelled on Plato's dialogue of the same name, Mendelssohn's work possessed some of the charm of its Greek exemplar and impressed the German world with its beauty and lucidity of style. The Phaedon was an immediate success, and besides being one of the most widely read books of its time in German it was speedily translated into several European languages, including English. The author was hailed as the \"German Plato,\" or the \"German Socrates\"; royal and other aristocratic friends showered attentions on him, and it was said that \"no stranger who came to Berlin failed to pay his personal respects to the German Socrates.\"\n\nImmanuel Kant criticized Mendelssohn's argument for immortality in the second edition of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" (1787), at B413–15. Commentators disagree over whether Kant's criticism is successful. Mendelssohn's arguments have been largely overlooked by contemporary analytic philosophers, but philosophers including Bertrand Russell and E.J. Lowe have offered arguments for the simplicity of the soul.\n\n"}
{"id": "20445291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20445291", "title": "Potassium spatial buffering", "text": "Potassium spatial buffering\n\nPotassium spatial buffering is a mechanism for the regulation of extracellular potassium concentration by astrocytes. Other mechanisms for astrocytic potassium clearance are carrier-operated or channel-operated potassium chloride uptake.\nThe repolarization of neurons tends to raise potassium concentration in the extracellular fluid. If a significant rise occurs, it will interfere with neuronal signaling by depolarizing neurons. Astrocytes have large numbers of potassium ion channels facilitating removal of potassium ions from the extracellular fluid. They are taken up at one region of the astrocyte and then distributed throughout the cytoplasm of the cell, and further to its neighbors via gap junctions. This keeps extracellular potassium at levels that prevent interference with normal propagation of an action potential.\n\nGlial cells, once believed to have a passive role in CNS, are active regulators of numerous functions in the brain, including clearance of the neurotransmitter from the synapses, guidance during neuronal migration, control of neuronal synaptic transmission, and maintaining ideal ionic environment for active communications between neurons in central nervous system.\n\nNeurons are surrounded by extracellular fluid rich in sodium ions and poor in potassium ions. The concentrations of these ions are reversed inside the cells. Due to the difference in concentration, there is a chemical gradient across the cell membrane, which leads to sodium influx and potassium efflux. When the action potential takes place, a considerable change in extracellular potassium concentration occurs due to the limited volume of the CNS extracellular space. The change in potassium concentration in the extracellular space impacts a variety of neuronal processes, such as maintenance of membrane potential, activation and inactivation of voltage gated channels, synaptic transmission, and electrogenic transport of neurotransmitter. Change of extracellular potassium concentration of from 3mM can affect neural activity. Therefore, there are diverse cellular mechanisms for tight control of potassium ions, the most widely accepted mechanisms being K+ spatial buffering mechanism. Orkand and his colleagues who first theorized spatial buffering stated “if a Glial cell becomes depolarized by K+ that has accumulated in the clefts, the resulting current carries K+ inward in the high [K+] region and out again, through electrically coupled Glial cells in low [K+] regions” \nIn the model presented by Orkand and his colleagues, glial cells intake and traverse potassium ions from region of high concentrations to region of low concentration maintaining potassium concentration to be low in extracellular space. Glial cells are well suited for transportation of potassium ions since it has unusually high permeability to potassium ions and traverse long distance by its elongated shape or by being coupled to one another.\n\nPotassium buffering can be broadly categorized into two categories: Potassium uptake and Potassium spatial buffering. For potassium uptake, excess potassium ions are temporarily taken into glial cells through transporters, or potassium channels. In order to preserve electroneutrality, potassium influxes into glial cells are accompanied by influx of chlorine or efflux of sodium. It is expected that when potassium accumulates within glial cells, water influx and swelling occurs. For potassium spatial buffering, functionally coupled glial cells with high potassium permeability transfer potassium ions from regions of elevated potassium concentration to regions of lower potassium concentration. The potassium current is driven by the difference in glial syncytium membrane potential and local potassium equilibrium potential. When one region of potassium concentration increases, there is a net driving force causing potassium to flow into the glial cells. The entry of potassium causes a local depolarization that propagates electrotonically through the glial cell network which causes net driving force of potassium out of the glial cells. This process causes dispersion of local potassium with little net gain of potassium ions within the glial cells, which in turn prevents swelling. Glial cell depolarization caused by neuronal activity releases potassium onto blood stream, which was once widely hypothesized to be cause of vessel relaxation, was found to have little affect on neurovascular coupling. Despite the efficiency of potassium spatial buffering mechanisms, in certain regions of CNS, potassium buffering seems more dependent on active uptake mechanisms rather than spatial buffering. Therefore, the exact role of glial potassium spatial buffering in the various regions of our brain still remains uncertain.\n\nThe high permeability of glial cell membranes to potassium ions is a result of expression of high densities of potassium-selective channels with high open-probability at resting membrane potentials. Kir channels, potassium inward-rectifying channels, allow passage of potassium ions inward much more readily than outward. They also display a variable conductance that positively correlates with extracellular potassium concentration: the higher the potassium concentration outside the cell, the higher the conductance. \n\nKir channels are categorized into seven major subfamilies, Kir1 to Kir7, with a variety of gating mechanisms. Kir3 and Kir6 are primarily activated by intracellular G-proteins. Because they have a relatively low open-probability compared to the other families, they have little impact on potassium buffering. Kir1 and Kir7 are mainly expressed in epithelial cells, such as those in kidney, choroid plexus, or retinal pigment epithelium, and have no impact on spatial buffering. Kir2, however, are expressed in brain neurons and glial cells. Kir4 and Kir5 are, along with Kir2, located in Muller glia and play important roles in potassium siphoning. There are some discrepancies among studies on expression of these channels in the stated locations.\n\nThe panglial syncytium is a large network of interconnected glial cells, which are extensively linked by gap junctions. The panglial syncytium spreads through central nervous system where it provides metabolic and osmotic support, as well as ionic regulation of myelinated axons in white matter tracts. The three types of macroglial cells within network of panglial syncytium are astrocytes, oligodendrocytes, and ependymocytes. Originally it was believed that there was homologous gap junction between oligodendrocytes. It was later found through untrastructural analysis that gap junctions do not directly link adjacent oligodendrocytes, rather it gap junctions with adjacent astrocytes, providing secondary pathway to nearby oligodendrocytes. With direct gap junction between myelin sheaths to surrounding astrocytes, excess potassium and osmotic water directly enters astrocyte syncytium, where it downstream to astrocyte endfeet at capillaries and the glia limitans. \n\nPotassium spatial buffering that occurs in the retina is called potassium siphoning, where the Muller cell is the principal glial cell type. Muller cells have important role in retinal physiology. It maintains retinal cell metabolism and are critical in maintaining potassium homeostasis in extracellular space during neuronal activity. Like cells responsible for spatial buffering, Muller cells are distinctively permeable to potassium ions through Kir channels. Like other glial cells, the high selectivity of Muller cell membranes to potassium ions is due to the high density of Kir channels. Potassium conductance is unevenly distributed in Muller cells. By focally increasing potassium ions along amphibian Muller cells and recording the resulting depolarization, the observed potassium conductance was concentrated in the endfoot process of 94% of the total potassium conductance localized to the small subcellular domain. The observation lead to hypothesis that excess potassium in extracellular space is “siphoned” by the Muller cells to the vitreous humor. Potassium siphoning is a specialized form of spatial buffering mechanisms where large reservoir of potassium ions is emptied into vitreous humor. Similar distribution pattern of Kir channels could be found in amphibians.\n\nExistence of potassium siphoning was first reported in 1966 study by Orkand et al. In the study, optic nerve of Necturus was dissected to document the long-distance movement of potassium after the nerve stimulation. Following the low frequency stimulation of .5 Hz at the retinal end of the dissected optic nerve, depolarization 1-2mV was measured at astrocytes at the opposite end of the nerve bundle, which was up to several millimeters from the electrode. With higher frequency stimulation, higher plateau of depolarization was observed. Therefore, they hypothesized that the potassium released to extracellular compartment during axonal activity entered and depolarized nearby astrocytes, where it was transported away by unfamiliar mechanism, which caused depolarization on astrocytes distant from site of stimulation. The proposed model was actually inappropriate since at the time neither gap junctions nor syncytium among glial cells were known, and optic nerve of Necturus are unmyelinated, which means that potassium efflux occurred directly into the periaxonal extracellular space, where potassium ions in extracellular space would be directly absorbed into the abundant astrocytes around axons.\n\nIn patients with Tuberous Sclerosis Complex (TSC), abnormalities occur in astrocyte, which leads to pathogenesis of neurological dysfunction in this disease. TSC is a multisystem genetic disease with mutation in either TSC1 or TSC2 gene. It results in disabling neurological symptoms such as mental retardation, autism, and seizures. Glial cells have important physiological roles of regulating neuronal excitability and preventing epilepsy. Astrocytes maintain homeostasis of excitatory substances, such as extracellular potassium, by immediate uptake through specific potassium channels and sodium potassium pumps. It is also regulated by potassium spatial buffering via astrocyte networks where astrocytes are coupled through gap junctions. Mutations in TSC1 or TSC2 gene often results in decreased expression of the astrocytic connexin protein, Cx43. With impairment in gap junction coupling between astrocytes, myriad of abnormalities in potassium buffering occurs which results in increased extracellular potassium concentration and may predispose to neuronal hyperexcitability and seizures. According to a study done on animal model, connexin43-deficient mice showed decreased threshold for the generation of epileptiform events. The study also demonstrated role of gap junction in accelerating potassium clearance, limiting potassium accumulation during neuronal firing, and relocating potassium concentrations.\n\nDemyelinating Diseases of the central nervous system, such as Neuromyelitis Optica, often leads to molecular components of the panglial syncytium being compromised, which leads to blocking of potassium spatial buffering. Without mechanism of potassium buffering, potassium induced osmotic swelling of myelin occurs where myelins are destroyed and axonal salutatory conduction ceases.\n"}
{"id": "9801523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9801523", "title": "Repressilator", "text": "Repressilator\n\nThe repressilator is a synthetic genetic regulatory network consisting of a ring-oscillator with three genes, each expressing a protein that represses the next gene in the loop.\n\nRepressilators were first reported in a paper by Michael Elowitz and Stanislas Leibler in 2000. This network was designed from scratch to exhibit a stable oscillation which is reported via the expression of green fluorescent protein, and hence acts like an electrical oscillator system with fixed time periods. The network was implemented in \"Escherichia coli\" using standard molecular biology methods and observations were performed that verify that the engineered colonies do indeed exhibit the desired oscillatory behavior.\n\nThe repressilator consists of three genes connected in a feedback loop, such that each gene represses the next gene in the loop, and is repressed by the previous gene. In addition, green fluorescent protein is used as a reporter so that the behavior of the network can be observed using fluorescence microscopy.\n\nThe design of the repressilator was guided by two simple mathematical models, one continuous and deterministic and the other discrete and stochastic.\n\nThese models were analyzed to determine the values for the various rates which would yield a sustained oscillation. It was found that these oscillations were favoured by strong promoters coupled to efficient ribosome binding sites, tight transcriptional repression (low 'leakiness'), cooperative repression characteristics, and comparable protein and mRNA decay rates.\n\nThis analysis motivated two design features which were engineered into the genes:\n\nFirst, to decrease leakiness the promoter regions were replaced with a tighter hybrid promoter which combined the λ P promoter with LacL and TetR operator sequences.\n\nSecond, to reduce the disparity between the lifetimes of the repressor proteins and the mRNAs, a carboxy terminal tag based on the ssRA RNA sequence was added at the 3' end of each repressor gene. This tag is recognized by proteases which target the protein for degradation\n\nThe design was implemented using a low copy plasmid encoding the repressilator, and the higher copy reporter, which were used to transform a culture of \"Escherichia coli\".\n\nThe repressilator is a milestone of synthetic biology which shows that genetic regulatory networks which perform a novel desired function can be designed and implemented. Further, the initial experiment gives new appreciation to the circadian clock found in many organisms, as they perform much more robustly than the repressilator. More recent investigations at the RIKEN Quantitative Biology Center have found that a single protein molecule could form a temperature independent, self-sustainable oscillator when it takes chemical modifications.\n\nRepressilators in adapted mathematical could potentially aid research in fields ranging from circadian biology to endocrinology. They are increasingly able to demonstrate the synchronization inherent in natural biological systems and the factors that affect them.\n\nIn 2016, a research team greatly improved upon the accuracy of previous designs.\n\n"}
{"id": "35941652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35941652", "title": "SS Java", "text": "SS Java\n\nSS \"Java was a British and French ocean liner built in 1865 at Glasgow by J. G. Thompson & Co. It served for the Cunard Line. 1877 it was re-engined with compound engines by Fawcett, Preston & Co, Liverpool and chartered to Warren Line, until it had been sold to Red Star Line one year later and renamed to SS \"Zeeland. \n\nIn its later years it was sold to French owners in 1889 and British owners again in 1892.\nIn 1895 it went missing on its way from San Francisco to New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "23924111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23924111", "title": "Shi (personator)", "text": "Shi (personator)\n\nThe shi () was a ceremonial \"personator\" who represented a dead relative during ancient Chinese ancestral sacrifices. In a \"shi\" ceremony, the ancestral spirit supposedly would enter the descendant \"corpse\" personator, who would eat and drink sacrificial offerings and convey messages from the spirit. James Legge (1895 IV:135), an early translator of the Chinese classics, described \"shi\" personation ceremonies as \"grand family reunions where the dead and the living met, eating and drinking together, where the living worshipped the dead, and the dead blessed the living.\" In modern terms, this ancient Chinese \"shi\" practice would be described as necromancy, mediumship, or spirit possession.\n\nThe word \"shi\" 尸 \"corpse; personator; inactive; lay out; manage; spirit tablet\" can be discussed in terms of Chinese character evolution, historical phonology, semantics, and English translations.\n\nThe modern character for \"shi\" \"corpse; personator\" is a graphic simplification of ancient pictographs showing a person with a bent back and dangling legs. The first records of \"shi\" are on oracle bones dating from the late Shang Dynasty (ca. 1600–ca. 1046 BCE). The oracle bone script for \"shi\" 尸 \"corpse\" was used interchangeably for \"yi\" \"barbarian; non-Chinese people (esp. eastern, see \"Dongyi\"); at ease; level\". The bronze script for \"shi\" 尸, found in Chinese bronze inscriptions dating from the Shang and Zhou Dynasty (ca. 1045 BCE-ca. 256 BCE), had a more curved back and legs. The graphically reduced seal script for \"shi\", standardized during the Qin Dynasty (221-207 BCE), resembles the regular script 尸.\n\nToday, \"shi\" 尸 is more commonly used as the \"corpse/body radical\" in Chinese characters (number 44 in the List of Kangxi radicals) than to write the original word \"corpse\". Many characters written with this radical involve the body (e.g., \"niao\" \"urine\" with 水 \"water\"), but not all (e.g., \"wu\" \"house; room\" with 至 \"go to\"). \n\n\"Shi\" 尸 \"corpse; cadaver\" has a variant Chinese character that combines the \"corpse radical\" 尸 with \"si\" \"dead\" (e.g., \"jiang shi\" 僵屍 \"stiff corpse\") Michael Carr (2007:358) explains, \"This semantically redundant \"shi\" 屍 'dead-corpse' graphically distinguishes the original 'corpse' meaning of \"shi\" 尸from its various other meanings such as 'personator'.\"\n\nChinese classics used the word \"shi\" 尸 in six meanings: \nCarr (2007:362) outlines the semantic connections among these \"shi\" meanings. The basic meaning (1) \"corpse\" was semantically extended into both (2) \"act on behalf of a corpse\" or \"personator of a dead ancestor\" and (3) \"act like a corpse\" or \"motionless; inactive; doing nothing\". Meaning (4) \"lay out, arrange; display\" generalizes \"lay out a corpse.\" Meaning (5) \"manage; direct; ancestral tablet\" links the representative \"shi\" (2) \"personator\" with the metaphorical replacement \"ancestral tablet\". Meaning (6) uses \"shi\" to transcribe proper names.\n\nMeaning (1) is the core sense of \"corpse; dead body; cadaver; carcass\". Early ritual texts, notably the \"Liji\" \"Classic of Rites\", \"Zhouli\" \"Rites of Zhou\", and \"Yili\" \"Etiquette and Rites\", frequently use \"shi\" \"corpse\" in mortuary and funeral contexts. Here is an example \"Liji\" passage:\nAs soon as death took place, the corpse was transferred to the couch, and covered with a large sheet. The clothes in which the deceased had died were removed. A servant plugged the mouth open with the spoon of horn; and to keep the feet from contracting, an easy stool was employed. These observances were the same for a ruler, a great officer, and an ordinary officer. (22, tr. Legge 1885 28:181)\n\n\"Shi\" meaning (2) \"personator; sacrificial representative of a dead person's spirit\" is discussed below.\n\nMeaning (3) figuratively expands \"shi\" to \"corpse-like\", which can contextually mean either \"motionless; calm; quiescent\" or \"inactive; negligent; remiss\". A \"Shijing\" ode (245, tr. Karlgren 1950:214) laments that, \"the good men sit motionless and silent\". Karlgren explains, \"'The good men act the corpse,' play the part of a representative of the dead at a sacrifice, who sits still and silent during the whole ceremony; here then, remain inactive, do nothing to help.\" The \"Lunyu\" (\"Confucian Analects\") uses \"shi\" to praise Confucius (tr. Legge 1895 I:235), \"In bed, he did not lie like a corpse.\" Commentators disagree whether this means \"sleep with the arms and legs sprawled out\" or \"sleep facing the north (the land of the dead)\".\n\nMeaning (4) is defined as Chinese \"chen\" \"lay out; set forth, array; arrange; display\". Examples in classic texts range from specifically \"lay out (a corpse)\" to generally \"lay out; set out; arrange\". The \"Liji\" distinguishes between \"shi\" 尸 \"uncoffined corpse\" and \"jiu\" (with the \"wood radical\" and a \"jiu\" 匛 \"long; enduring\" phonetic) \"coffined corpse\" (tr. Legge 1885 27:117): \"(The corpse) on the couch is called [\"shi\"] (the laid out); when it is put into the coffin, that is called [\"jiu\"] (being in the long home).\" A \"Shijing\" poem (185, tr. Karlgren 1950) refers to men called off to war, \"There are mothers who set forth the (sacrificial) dishes.\"\n\nMeaning (5) of \"shi\" is defined as \"zhu\" \"master; manage, preside; spirit tablet, ancestral tablet\". The \"Chuci\" (tr. Hawkes 1959:55) uses \"shi\" asking about King Wu of Zhou, whose father King Wen of Zhou did not live to see the conquering of the previous dynasty, Shang-Yin: \"When Wu set out to kill Yin, why was he so grieved? He went into the battle carrying the 'corpse.' Why was he in such haste?\" Commentators disagree whether this \"shi\" means \"zhu\", specifically \"muzhu\" 木主 \"wooden spirit/ancestral tablet\" or \"jiu\" \"corpse in a coffin\". Hawkes justifies translating \"corpse\": \"According to some accounts it was the 'spirit tablet' of his dead father [King Wen] which King Wu carried in his chariot to battle. But I think the poet understood him to have taken the actual corpse, and was surprised that he had not waited to bury it.\"\n\nThe sinologists Eduard Erkes and Bernhard Karlgren debated this \"Chuci\" usage of \"shi\" \"corpse; spirit tablet\". Erkes (1928) proposed that the \"zhu\" was a wooden ancestral tablet shaped in the image of the deceased. Karlgren (1930) disagreed and argued that the \"zhu\" was phallic shaped:\nHe seems to think that the substitution of [muzhu] 'wooden tablet' for the corpse (if really a corpse is intended; the word shi is ambiguous) proves the [muzhu] to have been an image of the corpse, and therefore he translates [muzhu] by 'wooden statue.' Nothing could be more arbitrary. The [muzhu], wooden ancestral tablet, was the resting place of the ancestor's spirit, once his body was dead and decomposed. In this sense it was a substitute for his body, his spiritual force had entered it, and therefore it was carried into battle, bringing this mental force of his into play on the side of his descendant. \nErkes (1931) countered Karlgren by citing other texts describing a human-shaped \"muzhu\" \"wooden lord\". For instance, the \"Shiji\" (\"Record of History\", tr. Erkes) records this King Wu story with \"muzhu\" instead of \"shi\": \"He (viz. Wu-Wang) made a wooden image of Wen-Wang and took it with [him] on his carriage into the battle.\" Erkes further suggested, \"very probably the custom of carrying a [muzhu] into battle had developed from an earlier one of taking the body itself, and that therefore the [muzhu] was something representing the corpse, i.e., an image of the deceased.\"\n\nMeaning (6) includes some semantically unrelated usages of \"shi\". \"Shi\" 尸 is an ancient place name (in Henan); a surname (e.g., the Syncretist philosopher Shizi 尸子, ca. 390–330 BCE); and a variant of \"shi\" (which is used in bird names like \"shijiu\" 鳲鳩 \"cuckoo; turtledove\").\n\nThe Standard Chinese \"shī\" pronunciation of 尸 phonologically descends from (ca. 6th century CE) Middle Chinese and (ca. 6th century BCE) Old Chinese. Compare these Middle and Old Chinese reconstructions of \"shi\" 尸 \"corpse\" and \"yi\" 夷 \"barbarian\" (which anciently had interchangeable characters): \"śi\" < *\"śjər\" 尸and \"i\" < *\"djər\" 夷 (Bernhard Karlgren 1957), \"syij\" < *\"hljij\" 尸and \"yij\" < *\"ljɨj\" 夷 (William Baxter 1992), and \"śi\" < *\"lhi\" 尸 and \"ji\" < *\"ləi\" 夷 (Axel Schuessler 2009).\n\nThere are several hypothetical etymologies for \"shi\" \"corpse\". Karlgren proposed that \"si\" < *\"sjər\" 死 \"die, dead\" and \"shi\" < *\"śjər\" 尸 \"the dead, corpse\" were etymologically cognate. Paul K. Benedict (1972) suggested possible Proto-Sino-Tibetan roots for \"shi\": either *\"(s-)raw\" \"corpse; carcass\" or *\"siy\" \"die\". Schuessler (2007) hypothesizes a semantic development from *\"li\" 夷 \"extend; expose; display; set out; spread out\" to *\"lhi\" 尸 \"to spread out; lie down flat (in order to sleep); motionless; to set forth (sacrificial dishes)\", to \"personator of a dead ancestor\", to \"corpse\". He rejects Karlgren's assumption that \"shi\" \"corpse\" is cognate to \"si\" \"to die\", \"because the MC [Middle Chinese] initial \"ś-\" (< *\"lh-\", *\"nh-\", *\"hj-\") never derives from an *\"s-\", except when they share an initial *\"l\" or *\"n\".\"\n\nEnglish translations of the ceremonial \"shi\" 尸 include \"personator\", \"impersonator\", \"representative\", \"medium\", and \"shaman\". Carr reviews the choices.\nObviously, rendering this into English is problematic because there is no Western analogy for the ceremonial \"shi\" 'corpse.' \"Personator\" is chosen as the nearest English translation. \"Impersonator\" would be possible, but this word implies falsehood, which was not originally associated with the \"shi\". \"Representative\" is too general in meaning, and does not usually have a sense of spirituality, unless modified by \"of the dead/ancestor\". Paper [1995] suggests \"Incorporator of the Dead\", which has a parallel 'one who embodies' etymology, but the derivate words \"incorporate\" and \"incorporation\" commonly have other meanings. \"Medium\" and \"shaman\" are similar with \"shi\" in meaning and are part of Chinese traditions; however, the descriptions of a dignified personator are unlike the spirit-possession of either. Another translational tactic would be to coin a nonce word, such as Waley's [1937] \"the Dead One,\" Eberhard's [1968] \"death boy,\" or Wilhelm's [1967] \"corpse boy,\" but the sense of such a coinage is not always clear. Therefore, in the absence of a better English word, \"personator\" will translate this meaning of \"shi\". (2007:364-365) \n\nZhou Dynasty classic texts (c. 11th-3rd centuries BCE) use the word \"shi\" 尸 hundreds of times. Lothar von Falkenhausen contrasts the frequently recorded \"shi\" \"personator\" with the rarely noted \"wu\" \"shaman; spirit medium\". \nAt ancestral sacrifices, the ancestral spirits descend into individuals designated from among their descendants, the \"Impersonators\" (\"shi\" 尸). Occupying their ritual rôle by virtue of their kinship position vis-à-vis the ancestor that is sacrificed to, the Impersonators are not trained religious specialists like the Spirit Mediums. Although it has been speculated that the actions of the \"shi\" may have originally involved trance and possession, the surviving source materials — none earlier than the Western Zhou period — show them as staid and passive, acting with the utmost demeanor and dignity. (1995) \n\nSome early \"shi\" meanings are contextually ambiguous. For instance, the \"Yijing\" (\"Book of Changes\") uses \"yu shi\" 尸 \"carry corpses; corpse carrier\" twice for Hexagram 7 (tr. Wilhelm 1967:34-35): \"Perchance the army carries corpses in the wagon. Misfortune … Let the eldest lead the army. The younger transports corpses. Then perseverance brings misfortune.\" Richard Wilhelm summarizes the \"Yijing\" commentaries.\nMarshall (2002:77) concludes this hexagram refers to carrying a corpse, and compares the \"Israelites carrying the Ark of the Covenant into battle against the Philistines\".\n\nThe \"Shijing\" (\"Classic of Poetry\", ca. 11th-6th centuries BCE) contains early and detailed descriptions of personation ceremonies, in the following themes.\nThere is an abundance of sacrificial wine and food (odes 166, 209, 210, and 248) shared by both the ancestral spirits (through the personator) and their descendants. Drunkenness is frequently mentioned: 209/5 \"The spirits [note: 'souls' not 'liquor'] are all drunk,\" 209/6 \"all are happy; they are drunk,\" 247/1, 2 \"We are drunk with wine,\" and 248/5 \"the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is befumed (by the spirits); the good wine makes you merry.\" Most significantly, the ancestral spirits speak directly through the intoxicated personators (166, 210, and 247), approve of the sacrificial offerings, and bless their descendants (166, 209, 210, 247, and 248). (Carr 2007:369) \n\n\"Shi\" \"personator\" occurs fourteen times in two pairs of consecutive \"Shijing\" odes (209–210 and 247–248, tr. Karlgren 1950:203-204). Ode 209 says \"we make (the representative of the dead) sit at ease, we (assist him =) encourage him to eat\" and \"The august representative of the dead then rises, the drums and bells (by their sound) escort away the representative.\" The following ode 210 describes sacrificial wine and food, \"he presents them to our representative of the dead and to our guests.\"\n\n\"Shijing\" odes 247 and 248, which portray ancestral feasts to the Zhou royal house, exclusively use the term \"gongshi\" 公尸 with the modifier \"gong\" \"prince; duke; public; palace; effort\". Compare these \"gongshi\" translations: \"representative of the (dead) princes\" (Karlgren), \"personators of your ancestors\" (Legge, admitting 1895 IV:447, \"The expression 公尸, 'ducal personators,' is somewhat difficult to account for\"), \"impersonator of the Ancient\", \"ducal Dead\", or \"Dead One\" (Waley, noting 1937:215, \"Impersonator of a former Duke or ruler\"). Ode 247 (\"Jizui\" 既醉 \"Already Drunk\") describes a sacrificial feast for ancestral spirits, and says \"the representative of the (dead) princes makes a happy announcement\".\n\nOde 248 (\"Fuyi\" 鳧鷖 \"Wild Ducks\") describes another feast, which commentators say was held on the following day to reward the personator, and details sacrificial offerings and ancestral blessings.\nThe wild ducks are on the [Jing] (river); the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is at peace; your wine is clear, your viands are fragrant; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and (achieve, complete you =) make you perfect. <br>\nThe wild ducks are on the sands; the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and (approves =) finds it good; your wine is plentiful, your viands are fine; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and (act for =) favor you. <br>\nThe wild ducks are on the island; the representative of the (dead) prices comes and feasts and reposes; your wine is strained, your viands are sliced; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and descend on you. <br>\nThe wild ducks are at the junction of the river; the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is (treated in temple-fashion =) revered; the feast is in the temple, that is where felicity and blessings descend; the representative feasts and drinks; felicity and blessings come and are piled up (heavily =) amply on you. <br>\nThe wild ducks are in the gorge; the representative of the (dead) princes comes and feasts and is befumed (by the spirits); the good wine makes you merry; the roast and broiled things are fragrant; the representative feasts and drinks; there will be no after trouble. \nBesides the \"Shijing\", other texts refer to \"shi\" frequently drinking sacrificial \"jiu\" 酒 \"alcoholic beverage; liquor\", which Paper (1995:113) interprets as a ritual means to induce hallucinations of ancestral spirits. Based upon a \"Liji\" ceremony (tr. Legge 1885 28:246) describing a \"shi\" personator drinking nine cups of \"jiu\", with an estimated alcohol content from 5% to 8%, and volume measurements of Zhou bronze sacrificial cups, Paper (1995:114) calculates a \"conservative estimate is that the \"shi\" consumed between 2.4 and 3.9 ounces of pure alcohol (equivalent to between 5 and 8 bar shots of eighty-proof liquor).\"\n\nSeveral texts refer to a Chinese custom that a personator should be a child of the same sex as the dead ancestor, preferably either a legitimate grandson or his wife. However, personation by younger relatives, who were of lower social status than their elders, created an exception to traditional Chinese culture. The earliest textual reference comes from the \"Mengzi\" (\"Book of Mencius\") questioning the status shown to a younger brother during the personation ceremony.\nYou should ask him, \"Which do you respect most, — your uncle, or your younger brother?\" He will answer, \"My uncle.\" Ask him again, \"If your younger brother be personating a dead ancestor, to which do you show the greater respect, — to him or to your uncle?\" He will say, \"To my younger brother.\" You can go on, \"But where is the respect due, as you said, to your uncle?\" He will reply to this, \"I show the respect to my younger brother because of the position which he occupies.\" (6, tr. Legge 1895 IV:400). \nThe \"Liji\" reiterates that personation contradicted the established social hierarchy (18, tr. Legge 1895 28:88): \"Thus it is that there are two among his subjects whom the ruler does not treat as subjects. When one is personating (his ancestor) he does not treat him as such, nor does he treat his master as such.\" Another \"Liji\" passage (7, tr. Legge 1895 27:337-338) explains: \"A rule of propriety says, 'A superior man may carry his grandson in his arms, but not his son.' This tells us that a grandson may be the personator of his deceased grandfather (at sacrifices), but a son cannot be so of his father.\" When a grandson personated his grandfather's spirit, it reversed the normal family hierarchy and a father would have to worship his own son. \n\nScholars have differing hypotheses explaining why a grandchild would make the most suitable personator. Marcel Granet (1930:337–338) said the basic reason was a predominance of uterine over agnatic primogeniture; the grandfather is the closest of the uterine relatives, and thus closer to his grandson than the father is. Wolfram Eberhard (1968:338) explained that a child makes the best personator owing to the ancient Chinese believed that a soul is small. Julian Jaynes (1976:344–345) mentions a Greek parallel; the philosopher Iamblichus wrote that \"young and simple persons\" make the most suitable mediums. Stephen Bokenkamp mentions examples besides \"shi\" rituals.\nIn China, possessions by spirits that occurred outside of this ritual scenario often involved younger members of the family as well. As in instances of mediumism around the world, the youthful and illiterate were regarded as more reliable conduits to the dead, since they could hardly be suspected of having fabricated their utterances and writings themselves. This fact brings to the fore questions of power. Women and junior male members of a family frequently found that mediumism was a way to bring attention to their own, otherwise easily ignored, concerns. (2007:40) \n\nTwo ritual texts mention female personators. The \"Liji\" (15, tr. Legge 1885 28:75) describes a wife personating her husband's dead grandmother: \"A wife, on festive occasions, even though it were on receiving a gift from the ruler, (only) made a curtsy. When seated as a personatrix (of the deceased grandmother of her husband), she did not bow with her head to her hands, but made the curtsy.\" The \"Yili\" (14, tr. Steele 1917:119.) euphemistically says a female personator should preferably not be the wife of a concubine's grandson; \"A man personates a dead man, and a woman a woman. In the latter case a woman of a different surname is chosen, and as such not one of inferior standing.\"\n\nSeveral early texts and commentaries reiterate a traditional history of personation beginning in the second millennium BCE as a sacred communion with ancestral spirits, but ending as a drinking party in the late 1st millennium BCE. When the personation ceremony supposedly originated during the Xia Dynasty (ca. 2100-ca. 1600 BCE), a personator would make contact with the dead ancestral spirit before sitting down to eat and drink. During the Yin or Shang Dynasty (ca. 1600-1046 BCE), a personator would sometimes sit down without having contacted the spirit, and by the late Zhou Dynasty (1045-256 BCE), a personation ceremony became a revelry with several personators repeatedly making toasts and drinking sacrificial wines.\n\nTwo \"Liji\" chapters describe how personation rituals changed during the Zhou period.\nUnder the [Zhou] dynasty the representatives of the dead sat. Their monitors and cup-suppliers observed no regular rules. The usages were the same (as those of Yin [Shang]), and the underlying principle was one. Under the [Xia] dynasty, the personators had stood till the sacrifice was ended (whereas) under the Yin [Shang] they sat. Under [Zhou], when the cup went round among all, there were six personators. [Zengzi] said, \"The usages of [Zhou] might be compared to a subscription club.\" (10, tr. Legge 1885 27:405-406) \n(When the representative of the departed) had made the libation with the [jia] cup, or the horn, (the sacrificer) was told (to bow to him) to put him at ease. Anciently, the representative stood when nothing was being done; when anything was being done, he sat. He personated the spirit. The officer of prayer was the medium of communication between him and the sacrificer. (11, tr. Legge 1885 27:446) \nLater sources repeat this legendary history of personation. For example, He Xiu 何休's 2nd-century commentary to the \"Chunqiu\" (\"Spring and Autumn Annals\") \"Gongyang Zhuan\" says (tr. Carr 2007:371), \"The Xia had standing personators, the Shang [Yin] had sitting personators, and the Zhou had six personators who would make serial toasts.\" Granet (1930:337) mentions the Zhou personation parties: \"It was not long before this archaic custom was criticized by the ritualists. When the sacrifices were offered simultaneously to several ancestors each of whom was represented, the ceremony was found indeed to assume a displeasing likeness to a picnic.\"\n\nThe above \"Liji\" description of Zhou \"subscription club\" personation ceremonies quotes Confucius's student and compiler Zengzi (505-436 BCE). The \"Liji\" contains three passages where Zengzi questions his teacher about whether personators were needed for ancestral rituals. For instance:\n[Zengzi] asked, \"Is it necessary that there should be a representative of the dead in sacrifices? Or may he be dispensed with as when the satisfying offerings are made to the dead?\" Confucius said, \"In sacrificing to a full-grown man for whom there have been the funeral rites, there must be such a representative, who should be a grandson; and if the grandson is too young, someone must be employed to carry him in his arms. If there be no grandson, some one of the same surname should be selected for the occasion. In sacrificing to the one who had died prematurely, there are (only) the satisfying offerings, for he was not full-grown. To sacrifice to a full-grown man, for whom there have been the funeral rites without a representative, would be to treat him as if he had died prematurely.\" (7, tr. Legge 1885 27:337-338) \n\nChinese scholars have long disagreed about when and how \"shi\" personation originated. Henri Doré (1914 1:99-102) summarizes the four principal opinions, which are worth quoting in full.\n\nThe first opinion is that personation was a bygone superstition. The Tang Dynasty historian Du You criticizes the \"shi\":\nThe ancients employed a personator. This rite deserves censure, and has been abolished by our great Worthies. One vied with the other in practicing it. Now that an era of progress has set in, and these silly customs have disappeared, it is important not to revive them; common sense bids to refrain from them. Some half-baked literati of our days would fain re-establish this ceremony of the personator. This is quite absurd. \n\nThe second opinion is that the personator was not the agent of the departed, but merely its metaphorical representative or \"shenxiang\" 神象 \"image of the spirit\". The Han Dynasty historian Ban Gu explains:\nThe personator is found in the ceremony wherein sacrifice is offered to ancestors, because the soul emitting no perceptible sounds and having no visible form, the loving sentiment of filial piety finds no means of displaying itself, hence a personator has been chosen to whom meats are offered, after which he breaks the bowls, quite rejoiced, as if his own father had eaten plenty. The personator, drinking abundantly, imparts the illusion that it is the soul which is satiated. \nCarr (2007:386) notes, \"This passage sounds as though Ban had personally observed a personation ceremony.\" \nSome Qing Dynasty scholars held a third opinion, namely, that the personator was bearer of the ancestral tablet. The \"Jishuo quanzhen\" 集說詮真 \"Collected Sayings Explaining Truth\" says, \"The filial son chooses a personator to carry the tablet, but not to be the resting place of the soul of the dead person. His intention is therefore manifest.\" The \"Yuzhou dayiyi\" 宇宙大疑議 \"Discussion of Universal Great Doubts\" says: \"The personator is employed during sacrifices to the dead, in order to carry the ancestral tablet … hence there is no need of having such a one immediately after death, as the tablet is not yet erected.\"\n\nThe fourth opinion refutes the first three condemnations of personators as mere representatives or tablet-holders for the dead, and contends that a personator was temporarily the seat of a dead ancestor's soul. Two leading Neo-Confucianist philosophers held this judgment.\nCheng Yi writes: \nThe ancients, when sacrificing to the dead, employed the personator, because the soul and the vital force of the dead person after being separated from the body, seek an agent of the same nature. Now, men being all of the same kind, the father and the children being all of one family and of the same stock, the soul of the departed person is requested to come and establish its seat in one of them as in an agent. \nHis follower Zhu Xi concurs:\nIn ancient times all employed a personator when sacrificing to the dead. Since the descendants continue the life of their ancestors, the personator shares, therefore, in the life of the departed person, and the ancestor's soul descends undoubtedly upon his descendants, and reposes therein to enjoy the sacrifice offered. \n\nCarr (2007:387-388) offers a contemporary explanation for \"shi\" \"corpse\" personation: Julian Jaynes's psychological bicameralism hypothesis. Jaynes proposed that human \"consciousness\", meaning self-awareness and cognition, began evolving around 1000 BCE. Prior to that, ancient people had \"bicameral mentality\" in which one part of the brain \"spoke\" (often in an authority figure's voice) while another part listened and obeyed. \nAccording to the theory of the bicameral mind, hallucinations of a person in some authority could continue after death as an everyday matter. And hence the almost universal custom of feeding the corpses after death, and burying them with the appurtenances of life. (Jaynes 1976:290) \nIf the original personators were bicameral, they could have directly hallucinated voices from a \"shi\" \"corpse\". Carr notes the historical correspondence between Jaynes's first millennium BCE timeline for the breakdown of the bicameral mind in other parts of the world and the 11th-3rd centuries BCE personation practices in China.\nSeveral early sources give variations of the same chronicle about the personation ceremony. It began during the Xia Dynasty, when personators would communicate on behalf of the dead; continued during the Shang and Western Zhou Dynasties; but was criticized and discontinued after the Eastern Zhou Dynasty when personators were no longer able to speak for the dead. (2007:387) \nWearing ritual masks is a recent hypothesis about \"shi\". Paper (1995:82) suggested the possibility that Shang and Zhou \"shi\" wore bronze masks \"symbolizing the spirit of the dead to whom the sacrifices were offered\". Liu believes the phantasmagoric bronze masks discovered at Sanxingdui, dating from c. 12th-11th centuries BCE, might have been ritually worn by \"shi\" 尸.\nThe \"shi\" was generally a close, young relative who wore a costume (possibly including a mask) reproducing the features of the dead person. The \"shi\" was an impersonator, that is, a person serving as a reminder of the ancestor to whom sacrifice was being offered. During such a ceremony, the impersonator was much more than an actor in a drama. Although the exact meaning may have been different, the group of Sanxingdui masked figures in bronze all have the character of an impersonator. It is likely the masks were used to impersonate and identify with certain supernatural beings in order to effect some communal good. (2000:37) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24352014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24352014", "title": "Social protection", "text": "Social protection\n\nSocial protection, as defined by the United Nations Research Institute For Social Development, is concerned with preventing, managing, and overcoming situations that adversely affect people’s well being. Social protection consists of policies and programs designed to reduce poverty and vulnerability by promoting efficient labour markets, diminishing people's exposure to risks, and enhancing their capacity to manage economic and social risks, such as unemployment, exclusion, sickness, disability and old age.\n\nThe most common types of social protection:\n\n\nTraditionally, social protection has been used in the European welfare state and other parts of the developed world to maintain a certain living standard, and address transient poverty. One of the first examples of state-provided social protection can be tracked to the Roman Emperor Trajan, who expanded a program for free grain to include more poor citizens of the empire. In addition, he instituted public funds to support poor children. Organized welfare was not common until the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It was during this period that in both Germany and Great Britain, welfare systems were established to target the working classes (see National Insurance). The United States followed several years later, during the Great Depression, with emergency relief for those struck the hardest. However, modern social protection has grown to envelop a much broader range of issues and purposes; it is now being used as a policy approach in developing nations, to address issues of persistent poverty and target structural causes. Moreover, it is designed to lift recipients out of poverty, rather than exclusively providing passive protection against contingencies . social protection has rapidly been used in trying to reduce and ultimately eliminate poverty and suffering in developing countries (mostly in Africa), so to enhance and promote economic and social growth.\n\nLabor market interventions, consisting of both active and passive policies, provide protection for the poor who are capable of gaining employment. Passive programs, such as unemployment insurance, income support and changes in labor legislation, allieviate the financial needs of the unemployed but are not designed to improve their employability. A European Union-funded research as part of the DRIVERS project revealed a linear\nrelationship between investments in national active labour market policies (specifically those directed towards integrating vulnerable groups into employment) and quality of work. It found that European countries with more active labour market policies seem to have healthier, less stressed workplaces.\n\nOn the other hand, active programs focus on directly increasing the access of unemployed workers. Active labour market policies (ALMPs) are used to reduce the risk of unemployment and to increase the earnings capacity of workers. ALMPs have two basic objectives: (1) economic, by increasing the ability of the unemployed to find jobs, and increase productivity and earnings; and (2) social, by improving the inclusion and participation of productive employment. These programs have the ability to increase employment opportunities and address the social problems that often accompany high unemployment. Active policies are a way of reversing the negative effects of industrial restructuring in transition economies and to help integrate vulnerable people furthest from the labor markets. ALMPs are often targeted to the long-term unemployed, workers in poor families, and particular groups with labor market disadvantages. These programs have important social, as well as economic, objectives. Active labor market programs include a wide range of activities to stimulate employment and productivity such as:\nA common issue in implementing successful labor market interventions is how to incorporate the informal economy, which comprises a significant portion of the workforce in developing countries. Informal employment comprises between half and three quarters of non-agricultural employment in the majority of these countries. The proportion of informal employment increases when agriculture is taken into account. Most informal workers are not covered by social security schemes, occupational safety and health measures, working conditions regulations and have limited access to health services and work-related measures of social protection. Labor market interventions work to integrate the different strategies to prevent and compensate occupational and social risks in the informal economy. The strategies that include measures to prevent and mitigate the impact of risks are the most effective.\n\nIn general, public expenditure on labor market policy (LMP) interventions falls within three main categories:\ntraining (2),\njob rotation & job sharing (3),\nemployment incentives (4),\nsupported employment & rehabilitation (5),\ndirect job creation (6),\nstart-up incentives (7),\n\nout-of-work income maintenance and support (8),\nearly retirement (9)\n\nSocial insurance schemes are contributory programs that protect beneficiaries from catastrophic expenses in exchange for regular payments of premiums. Health costs can be very high, so health insurance schemes are a popular way reducing risk in the event of shock. However, an individual with low income may not be able to afford insurance. Some argue that insurance schemes should be complemented with social assistance. Community-based health insurance allows pooling in settings where institutional capacity is too weak to organize nationwide risk-pooling, especially in low-income countries, making insurance more affordable. In risk-sharing schemes, the insurance premium is unrelated to the likelihood that the beneficiary will fall ill and benefits are provided on the basis of need.\n\nSocial assistance schemes comprise programs designed to help the most vulnerable individuals ( i.e., those with no other means of support such as single parent households, victims of natural disasters or civil conflict, handicapped people, or the destitute poor), households and communities to meet a Social floor and improve living standards. These programs consist of all forms of public action, government and non-government, that are designed to transfer resources, either cash or in-kind (e.g. food transfers), to eligible vulnerable and deprived persons. Social assistance interventions may include:\n\nThere are two main schools of thought concerning scope of social protection. Universalism argues that each person, by merit of simply being a citizen should be entitled to benefits from social protection programs. Such a policy would avoid means-testing and any conditionalities such as work requirements. One of the greatest benefits to this policy perspective is social solidarity, since everyone contributes collaboratively to a system that everyone also benefits from. Social security is one such example. Moreover, economists have argued that universalism is an investment in human capital that aids the development of a nation as a whole. The World Bank's 2019 World Development Report \"The Changing Nature of Work\" considers social protection from this perspective, describing existing schemes around the world and presenting simulation data on the potential costs.\nOpponents would argue that universalism is cost-ineffective and unfairly distorts individual efforts. Such an argument points toward targeting as a better solution. In such a case, the question arises of who should be the target population that receives benefits from social programs.\n\nNet income is the simplest method of determining a needy population. Some states use a Guaranteed Minimum Income system, in which all members of a state receive sufficient income to live on, so long as they meet certain conditions. However, proponents of the capabilities approach argue that income is easier to misrepresent, and moreover, fails to target the root causal factors of poverty. Hence, they recommend targeting a minimum level of basic capabilities that will impact quality of life, such as institutional improvements like health and education. Policy examples might include a social floor.\n\nSocial protection is an expensive and difficult endeavor, by any means; the question remains how best to implement programs that effectively aid the people who need it the most. Currently, there are a number of mechanisms that provide social protection in various nations. These policies and instruments vary according to country context. In some nations, governments are strongly involved in the provision of social protection, following a developmentalism model, in which social protection is seen as a tool to promote economic growth. There are also nations which are characterized by dualism, in which there is state-provided protection for those who work in the formal sector, but little to no protection for those who work in the informal sector. Finally, there are nations in which the economy is largely agrarian, and a great majority of the population works in the informal economy. In those countries that have only residual social protection coverage and weak state capacity,social protection is mainly provided by non-governmental means such as kin, NGOs, and individual philanthropic donations.\n\nIn South Korea and Taiwan, the government provides extensive support for public programs, following the developmentalism model, in which social protection is seen as a tool to promote economic growth.\n\nIn Argentina, Brazil, and South Africa, there is a dualist structure of protected formal sector workers and marginalized informal sector workers.,\n\nIn nations such as India and Tanzania, governments struggle to provide adequate social protection, and citizens must instead depend on non-state actors and informal provisioning.\n\nInternational donors and organizations have influenced social protection approaches both at the level of policy discourse and program design and implementation. Even though The World Bank and International Labour Organization (ILO) are the major donors and the lead organizations in the field, other organizations are also concerned with social protection.\n\nThe World Bank is a source of financial and technical assistance for developing countries. In order to identify social risks and potential responses, The World Bank developed a tool called “Social Risk Management” (SRM). The SRM framework includes interventions that focus on managing risks before shocks occur. It is based on two assessments: (1) the poor are most exposed to diverse risks, and (2) the poor have the fewest tools to deal with these risks. The main elements of the SRM framework are:\n\nThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) brings 30 democratic countries together to seek answers to common problems and coordinate domestic and international policies. The Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD is responsible for the Poverty Network (POVNET) that has become very influential on policy development. The DAC-POVNET focuses on the following areas:\n\nThe International Labour Organization, which covers both issues of social security and labor protection, has been the United Nations agency responsible for setting norms and standards at work. Currently the ILO focuses, amongst others, on the following strategies: \n\n\nsocialprotection.org\n"}
{"id": "19653966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19653966", "title": "Spawn (biology)", "text": "Spawn (biology)\n\nSpawn is the eggs and sperm released or deposited into water by aquatic animals. As a verb, \"to spawn\" refers to the process of releasing the eggs and sperm, and the act of both sexes is called spawning. Most aquatic animals, except for aquatic mammals and reptiles, reproduce through the process of spawning.\n\nSpawn consists of the reproductive cells (gametes) of many aquatic animals, some of which will become fertilized and produce offspring. The process of spawning typically involves females releasing ova (unfertilized eggs) into the water, often in large quantities, while males simultaneously or sequentially release spermatozoa (milt) to fertilize the eggs.\n\nMost fish reproduce by spawning, as do most other aquatic animals, including crustaceans such as crabs and shrimps, molluscs such as oysters and squid, echinoderms such as sea urchins and sea cucumbers, amphibians such as frogs and newts, aquatic insects such as mayflies and mosquitoes and corals, which are actually small aquatic animals—not plants. Fungi, such as mushrooms, are also said to \"spawn\" a white, fibrous matter that forms the matrix from which they grow.\n\nThere are many variations in the way spawning occurs, depending on sexual differences in anatomy, how the sexes relate to each other, where and how the spawn is released and whether or how the spawn is subsequently guarded.\n\nMarine animals, and particularly bony fish, commonly reproduce by \"broadcast spawning\". This is an external method of reproduction where the female releases many unfertilised eggs into the water. At the same time, a male or many males release a lot of sperm into the water which fertilises some of these eggs. The eggs contain a drop of nutrient oil to sustain the embryo as it develops inside the egg case. The oil also provides buoyancy, so the eggs float and drift with the current. The strategy for survival of broadcast spawning is to disperse the fertilised eggs, preferably away from the coast into the relative safety of the open ocean. There the larvae develop as they consume their fat stores, and eventually hatch from the egg capsule into miniature versions of their parents.\nTo survive, they must then become miniature predators themselves, feeding on plankton. Fish eventually encounter others of their own kind (conspecifics), where they form aggregations and learn to school.\n\nInternally, the sexes of most marine animals can be determined by looking at the gonads. For example, male testes of spawning fish are smooth and white and account for up to 12% of the mass of the fish, while female ovaries are granular and orange or yellow, accounting for up to 70% of the fish's mass. Male lampreys, hagfish and salmon discharge their sperm into the body cavity where it is expelled through pores in the abdomen. Male sharks and rays can pass sperm along a duct into a seminal vesicle, where they store it for a while before it is expelled, while teleosts usually employ separate sperm ducts.\n\nExternally, many marine animals, even when spawning, show little sexual dimorphism (difference in body shape or size) or little difference in colouration. Where species are dimorphic, such as sharks or guppies, the males often have penis-like intromittent organs in the form of a modified fin.\n\nA species is semelparous if its individuals spawn only once in their lifetime, and iteroparous if its individuals spawn more than once. The term semelparity comes from the Latin \"semel\", once, and \"pario\", to beget, while iteroparity comes from \"itero\", to repeat, and \"pario\", to beget.\n\nSemelparity is sometimes called \"big bang\" reproduction, since the single reproductive event of semelparous organisms is usually large and fatal to the spawners. The classic example of a semelparous animal is the Pacific salmon,which lives for many years in the ocean before swimming to the freshwater stream of its birth, spawning, and then dying. Other spawning animals which are semelparous include mayflies, squid, octopus, smelt, capelin and some amphibians. Semelparity is often associated with r-strategists. However, most fish and other spawning animals are iteroparous.\n\nWhen the internal ovaries or egg masses of fish and certain marine animals are ripe for spawning they are called roe. Roe from certain species, such as shrimp, scallop, crab and sea urchins, are sought as human delicacies in many parts of the world. \"Caviar\" is a name for the processed, salted roe of non-fertilized sturgeon. The term \"soft roe\" or \"white roe\" denotes fish milt. Lobster roe is called \"coral\" because it turns bright red when cooked. Roe (reproductive organs) are usually eaten either raw or briefly cooked.\n\n\"The reproductive behaviour of fishes is remarkably diversified: they may be oviparous (lay eggs), ovoviparous (retain the eggs in the body until they hatch), or viviparous (have a direct tissue connection with the developing embryos and give birth to live young). All cartilaginous fishes—the elasmobranches (e.g., sharks, rays, and skates)—employ internal fertilization and usually lay large, heavy-shelled eggs or give birth to live young. The most characteristic features of the more primitive bony fishes is the assemblage of polyandrous (many males) breeding aggregations in open water and the absence of parental care...\"\n\nThere are two main reproduction methods in fish. The first method is by laying eggs and the second by \"live-bearing\" (producing their young alive).\n\n\nMonogamy occurs when one male mates with one female exclusively. This is also called \"pair spawning\". Most fish are not monogamous, and when they are, they often alternate with non-monogamous behaviours. Monogamy can occur when feeding and breeding grounds are small, when it is difficult for fish to find partners, or when both sexes look after the young. Many tropical cichlids, which rear their young together in locations where they must fiercely defend against competitors and predators are monogamous. \"In some pipefishes and seahorses, development of eggs takes a long time before the female can place them in the brood pouch of a male, where they are fertilized. While the male is pregnant, the female starts a new batch of eggs, which are ready at about the same time that the male gives birth to the young from the previous mating. This close timing of development promotes monogamy, especially if the likelihood of encountering another potential mate is low.\"\n\nPolygyny occurs when one male gets exclusive mating rights with multiple females. In polygyny a large conspicuous male usually defends females from other males or defends a breeding site. The females choose large males that are successfully defending prime breeding sites which the females find attractive. For example, sculpin males defend \"caves\" underneath rocks which are suitable for the incubation of embryos.\n\nAnother way males get to mate with several females is through the use of leks. Leks are places where many fish come together, and the males display to each another. Based on these displays, each female then selects the male they want to be their mate. For example, among the cichlid \"Cyrtocara eucinostomus\" in Lake Malawi, up to 50,000 large and colourful males display together on a lek four kilometres long. The females, which are mouth brooders, choose which male they want to fertilize their eggs.\n\nPolyandry occurs when one female gets exclusive mating rights with multiple males. This happens among fish like clownfish that change their sex. It can also happen when males do the brooding but can cannot handle all the eggs the female produce, such as with some pipefish.\n\nThe males in some deep sea anglerfishes are much smaller than the females. When they find a female they bite into her skin, releasing an enzyme that digests the skin of their mouth and her body and fusing the pair down to the blood-vessel level. The male then slowly atrophies, losing first his digestive organs, then his brain, heart, and eyes, ending as nothing more than a pair of gonads, which release sperm in response to hormones in the female's bloodstream indicating egg release. This ensures that, when the female is ready to spawn, she has a mate immediately available. A single anglerfish female can \"mate\" with many males in this manner.\n\nPolygynandry occurs when multiple males mate indiscriminately with multiple females. This mutual promiscuity is the approach most commonly used by spawning animals, and is perhaps the \"original fish mating system.\" Common examples are forage fish, such as herrings, which form huge mating shoals in shallow water. The water becomes milky with sperm and the bottom is draped with millions of fertilized eggs.\n\nAlternate male strategies which allow small males to engage in cuckoldry can develop in species where spawning is dominated by large and aggressive males. Cuckoldry is a variant of polyandry, and can occur with \"sneak spawners\" (sometimes called \"streak spawners\"). A sneak spawner is a male that rushes in to join the spawning rush of a spawning pair. A spawning rush occurs when a fish makes a burst of speed, usually on a near vertical incline, releasing gametes at the apex, followed by a rapid return to the lake or sea floor or fish aggregation. Sneaking males do not take part in courtship. In salmon and trout, for example, \"jack males\" are common. These are small silvery males that migrate upstream along with the standard, large, hook-nosed males and that spawn by sneaking into a redd (spawning nest) to release sperm simultaneously with a mated pair. This behaviour is an evolutionarily stable strategy for reproduction, because it is favoured by natural selection just like the \"standard\" strategy of large males.\n\nCuckoldry occurs in many fish species, including dragonets, parrotfishes and wrasses on tropical reefs and the bluegill sunfish in fresh water. Sneaker males that become too large to hide effectively become \"satellite males\". With bluegill sunfish, satellite males mimic the behaviour and colouration of the females. They hover over a nest containing a pair of courting sunfish, and gradually descend to reach the pair just as they spawn. Males may need to be 6 or 7 years old to function capably as parental males, but may be able to function as sneaker or satellite males when they are as young as 2 or 3 years old. The smaller satellite and sneaker males may get mauled by the more powerful parental males, but they spawn when they are younger and they do not put energy into parental care.\n\nHermaphroditism occurs when a given individual in a species possesses both male and female reproductive organs, or can alternate between possessing first one, and then the other. Hermaphroditism is common in invertebrates but rare in vertebrates. It can be contrasted with gonochorism, where each individual in a species is either male or female, and remains that way throughout their lives. Most fish are gonochorists, but hermaphroditism is known to occur in 14 families of teleost fishes.\n\nUsually hermaphrodites are \"sequential\", meaning they can switch sex, usually from female to male (protogyny). This can happen if a dominant male is removed from a group of females. The largest female in the harem can switch sex over a few days and replace the dominant male. This is found amongst coral reef fishes such as groupers, parrotfishes and wrasses. It is less common for a male to switch to a female (protandry). As an example, most wrasses are protogynous hermaphrodites within a haremic mating system. Hermaphroditism allows for complex mating systems. Wrasses exhibit three different mating systems: polygynous, lek-like, and promiscuous mating systems. Group spawning and pair spawning occur within mating systems. The type of spawning that occurs depends on male body size. Labroids typically exhibit broadcast spawning, releasing high amounts of planktonic eggs, which are broadcast by tidal currents; adult wrasses have no interaction with offspring. Wrasse of a particular subgroup of the family Labridae, Labrini, do not exhibit broadcast spawning.\n\nLess commonly hermaphrodites can be \"synchronous\", meaning they simultaneously possess both ovaries and testicles and can function as either sex at any one time. Black hamlets \"take turns releasing sperm and eggs during spawning. Because such egg trading is advantageous to both individuals, hamlets are typically monogamous for short periods of time–an unusual situation in fishes.\" The sex of many fishes is not fixed, but can change with physical and social changes to the environment where the fish lives.\n\nParticularly among fishes, hermaphroditism can pay off in situations where one sex is more likely to survive and reproduce, perhaps because it is larger. Anemone fishes are sequential hermaphrodites which are born as males, and become females only when they are mature. Anemone fishes live together monogamously in an anemone, protected by the anemone stings. The males do not have to compete with other males, and female anemone fish are typically larger. When a female dies a juvenile (male) anemone fish moves in, and \"the resident male then turns into a female and reproductive advantages of the large female–small male combination continue\". In other fishes sex changes are reversible. For example, if some gobies are grouped by sex (male or female), some will switch sex.\n\nUnisexuality occurs when a species is all-male or all-female. Unisexuality occurs in some fish species, and can take complex forms. \"Squalius alburnoides\", a minnow found in several river basins in Portugal and Spain, appears to be an all-male species. The existence of this species illustrates the potential complexity of mating systems in fish. The species originated as a hybrid between two species, and is diploid, but not hermaphroditic. It can have triploid and tetraploid forms, including all-female forms that reproduce mainly through hybridogenesis.\n\nIt is rare to find true parthenogenesis in fishes, where females produce female offspring with no input from males. All-female species include the Texas silverside, \"Menidia clarkhubbsi\" as well as a complex of Mexican mollies. Parthenogenesis has been recently observed in hammerhead sharks and blacktip sharks. It is also known to occur in crayfish and amphibians.\n\nThis section is patterned after a classification of the spawning behaviours of fish by Balon (1975, 1984) into reproductive guilds. This classification is based on how the eggs are fertilized (internal or external spawners), where the eggs are deposited (pelagic or benthic spawners), and whether and how the parents look after the eggs after spawning (bearers, guarders and nonguarders).\n\nNonguarders do not protect their eggs and offspring after spawning\n\nOpen substrate spawners scatter their eggs in the environment. They usually spawn in shoals without complex courtship rituals, and males outnumber females.\n\nBroadcast spawners: release their gametes (sperm and eggs) into open water for external fertilisation. There is no subsequent parental care. About 75% of coral species are broadcasters, the majority of which are hermatypic, or reef-building corals.\n\nBrood hiders hide their eggs but do not give parental care after they have hidden them. Brood hiders are mostly benthic spawners that bury the fertilized eggs. For example, among salmon and trout the female digs a nest with her tail in gravel. These nests are called redds. The female then lays her eggs while the male fertilizes them, while both fish defend the redd if necessary from other members of the same species. Then the female buries the nest, and the nest site is abandoned. In North America, some minnows build nests out of piles of stones rather than dig holes. The minnow males have tubercles on their head and body which they use to help them defend the nest site.\n\n\nBitterlings have a remarkable reproduction strategy where parents transfer responsibility for the care of their young to mussels. The female extends her ovipositor into the mantle cavity of the mussel and deposits her eggs between the gill filaments. The male then ejects his sperm into the mussel's inhalant water current and fertilization takes place within the gills of the host. The same female may use a number of mussels, and she deposits only one or two yellow, oval eggs into each. Early developmental stages are protected from predation within the body of the mussel. After 3 to 4 weeks larvae swim away from the host to continue life on their own.\n\nGuarders protect their eggs and offspring after spawning by practicing \"parental care\" (also called \"brood care\"). Parental care is an \"investment by parents in offspring that increases the offsprings' chances of surviving (and hence reproducing). In fish, parental care can take a variety of forms including guarding, nest building, fanning, splashing, removal of dead eggs, retrieval of straying fry, external egg carrying, egg burying, moving eggs or young, ectodermal feeding, oral brooding, internal gestation, brood-pouch egg carrying, etc.\"\n\nTerritorial behaviour is generally necessary for guarders, and the embryos are almost always guarded by males (apart from cichlids). There is a need to be territorial because looking after embryos usually includes defending the site where they are being looked after. It also often means there is competition for the best egg-laying sites. Elaborate courtship behaviour is usual among guarders.\n\nGuarding males keep the embryos safe from predators, keep oxygen levels high by fanning water currents, and keep the area free from dead embryos and debris. They protect the embryos until they hatch, and often look after the larval stages as well. The time spent guarding can range from a few days to several months.\n\nSome guarders build nests (\"nest spawners\") and some do not (\"substrate spawners\"), though the difference between the two groups can be small. Substrate spawners clean off a suitable area of surface suitable for egg laying, and look after the area, but they do not actively build a nest.\n\nBearers are fish that carry their embryos (and sometimes their young) around with them, either externally or internally.\n\nMouth brooders - carry eggs or larvae in their mouth. Mouth brooders can be ovophiles or larvophiles. Ovophile or egg-loving mouth-brooders lay their eggs in a pit, which are sucked up into the mouth of the female. The small number of large eggs hatch in the mother's mouth, and the fry remain there for a period of time. Fertilization often occurs with the help of egg-spots, which are colorful spots on the anal fin of the male. When the female sees these spots, she tries to pick up the egg-spots, but instead gets sperm that fertilizes the eggs in her mouth. Many cichlids and some labyrinth fish are ovophile mouthbrooders. Larvophile or larvae-loving mouth-brooders lay their eggs on a substrate and guard them until the eggs hatch. After hatching, the female picks up the fry and keeps them in her mouth. When the fry can fend for themselves, they are released. Some eartheaters are larvophile mouthbrooders.\n\nThe beginning of the evolutionary process of livebearing starts with \"facultative\" (optional) internal bearing. The process occurs in several species of oviparous (egg-laying) killifishes which spawn in the normal way on the substrate, but in the process accidentally fertilize eggs which the female retains and does not spawn. These eggs are spawned later, usually without allowing much time for embryonic development.\nThe next step in the evolution of livebearing is \"obligate\" (by necessity) internal bearing, where the female retains all the embryos. \"The only source of nutrition for these embryos, however, is the egg yolk, as in externally spawned eggs. This situation, also referred to as ovoviviparity, is characteristic of marine rock fishes and the Lake Baikal sculpins. This strategy allows these fish to have fecundities approaching those of pelagic fish with external fertilization, but it also enables them to protect the young during their most vulnerable stage of development. By contrast, sharks and rays using this strategy produce a relatively small number of embryos and retain them for a few weeks to 16 months or longer. The shorter times spans are characteristic of species that eventually deposit their embryos in the environment, surrounded by a horny capsule; whereas the longer periods are characteristic of sharks that retain the embryos until they are ready to emerge as actively swimming young.\"\n\nHowever, some fish do not fit these categories. The livebearing largespring gambusia (\"Gambusia geiseri\") was thought to be ovoviviparous until it was shown in 2001 that the embryos received nutrients from the mother.\n\nSpawning grounds are the areas of water where aquatic animals spawn, or produce their eggs. After spawning, the spawn may or may not drift to new grounds which become their nursery grounds. Many species undertake migrations each year, and sometimes great migrations, to reach their spawning grounds. For example, lakes and river watersheds can be major spawning grounds for anadromous fish such as salmon. These days, it is often necessary to construct fish ladders and other bypass systems so salmon can navigate their way past hydroelectric dams or other obstructions such as weirs on their way to spawning grounds. Coastal fish often use mangroves and estuaries as spawning grounds, while reef fish can find adjacent seagrass meadows that make good spawning grounds. Short-finned eels can travel anything up to three or four thousand kilometres to their spawning ground in deep water somewhere in the Coral Sea.\n\nForage fish often make great migrations between their spawning, feeding and nursery grounds. Schools of a particular stock usually travel in a triangle between these grounds. For example, one stock of herrings have their spawning ground in southern Norway, their feeding ground in Iceland, and their nursery ground in northern Norway. Wide triangular journeys such as these may be important because forage fish, when feeding, cannot distinguish their own offspring.\n\nCapelin are a forage fish of the smelt family found in the Atlantic and Arctic oceans. In summer, they graze on dense swarms of plankton at the edge of the ice shelf. Larger capelin also eat krill and other crustaceans. The capelin move inshore in large schools to spawn and migrate in spring and summer to feed in plankton rich areas between Iceland, Greenland, and Jan Mayen. The migration is affected by ocean currents. Around Iceland maturing capelin make large northward feeding migrations in spring and summer. The return migration takes place in September to November. The spawning migration starts north of Iceland in December or January.\n\nThe diagram on the right shows the main spawning grounds and larval drift routes. Capelin on the way to feeding grounds is coloured green, capelin on the way back is blue, and the breeding grounds are red. In a paper published in 2009, researchers from Iceland recount their application of an interacting particle model to the capelin stock around Iceland, successfully predicting the spawning migration route for 2008.\n\nReferred to as \"the greatest shoal on earth\", the sardine run occurs when millions of sardines migrate from their spawning grounds south of the southern tip of Africa northward along the Eastern Cape coastline. Chinook salmon make the longest freshwater migration of any salmon, over up the Yukon River to spawning grounds upstream of Whitehorse, Yukon. Some green sea turtles swim more than to reach their spawning grounds.\n\nGoldfish, like all cyprinids, are egg-layers. They usually start breeding after a significant temperature change, often in spring. Males chase females, prompting them to release their eggs by bumping and nudging them. As the female goldfish spawns her eggs, the male goldfish stays close behind fertilizing them. Their eggs are adhesive and attach to aquatic vegetation. The eggs hatch within 48 to 72 hours. Within a week or so, the fry begins to assume its final shape, although a year may pass before they develop a mature goldfish colour; until then they are a metallic brown like their wild ancestors. In their first weeks of life, the fry grow quickly—an adaptation born of the high risk of getting devoured by the adult goldfish.\n\nA member of the Cyprinidae, carp spawn in times between April and August, largely dependent upon the climate and conditions they live in. Oxygen levels of the water, availability of food, size of each fish, age, number of times the fish has spawned before and water temperature are all factors known to effect when and how many eggs each carp will spawn at any one time.\n\nPrior to spawning, male Siamese fighting fish build bubble nests of varying sizes at the surface of the water. When a male becomes interested in a female, he will flare his gills, twist his body, and spread his fins. The female darkens in colour and curves her body back and forth. The act of spawning takes place in a \"nuptial embrace\" where the male wraps his body around the female, each embrace resulting in the release of 10-40 eggs until the female is out of eggs. The male, from his side, releases milt into the water and fertilization takes place externally. During and after spawning, the male uses his mouth to retrieve sinking eggs and deposit them in the bubble nest (during mating the female sometimes assists her partner, but more often she will simply devour all the eggs that she manages to catch). Once the female has released all of her eggs, she is chased away from the male's territory, as it is likely that she'll eat the eggs due to hunger. The eggs then remain in the male's care. He keeps them in the bubble nest, making sure none fall to the bottom and repairing the nest as needed. Incubation lasts for 24–36 hours, and the newly hatched larvae remain in the nest for the next 2–3 days, until their yolk sacs are fully absorbed. Afterwards the fry leave the nest and the free-swimming stage begins.\n\nCopepods are tiny crustaceans which usually reproduce either by \"broadcast spawning\" or by \"sac spawning\". Broadcasting copepods scatter their eggs into the water, but sac spawners lay their eggs into an ovigerous sac. Sac spawners spawn few but relatively large eggs that develop slowly. By contrast, broadcast spawners spawn numerous small eggs that develop rapidly. However, the shorter hatch times that result from broadcasting are not short enough to compensate for the higher mortality compared to sac spawners. To produce a given number of hatched eggs, broadcasters must spawn more eggs than sac spawners.\n\nAfter mating, the fertilized eggs of the California spiny lobster are carried on the female's pleopods until they hatch, with between 120,000 and 680,000 carried by a single female. The eggs begin coral red, but darken as they develop to a deep maroon. When she is carrying the eggs, the female is said to be \"berried\". The eggs are ready to hatch after 10 weeks, and spawning takes place from May to August. The larvae that hatch (called \"phyllosoma\" larvae) do not resemble the adults. Instead, they are flat, transparent animals around long, but as thin as a sheet of paper. The larvae feed on plankton, and grow through ten molts into ten further larval stages, the last of which is around long. The full series of larval molts takes around 7 months, and when the last stage molts, it metamorphoses into the \"puerulus\" state, which is a juvenile form of the adult, though still transparent. The puerulus larvae settle to the sea floor when the water is near its maximum temperature, which in Baja California is in the fall.\n\nEgg-bearing female lobsters migrate inshore from deeper waters to hatch their eggs, though they do not have specific spawning grounds. These lobster migrations can occur in close single-file formation \"lobster trains\".\n\nOysters are \"broadcast spawners\", that is, eggs and sperm are released into open water where fertilisation occurs. They are protandric; during their first year they spawn as males by releasing sperm into the water. As they grow over the next two or three years and develop greater energy reserves, they spawn as females by releasing eggs. Bay oysters usually spawn by the end of June. An increase in water temperature prompts a few oysters to spawn. This triggers spawning in the rest, clouding the water with millions of eggs and sperm. A single female oyster can produce up to 100 million eggs annually. The eggs become fertilized in the water and develop rapidly into planktonic larvae. which eventually find suitable sites, such as another oyster's shell, on which to settle. Attached oyster larvae are called spat. Spat are oysters less than long.\n\nThe Pacific oyster usually has separate sexes. Their sex can be determined by examining the gonads, and it can change from year to year, normally during the winter months. In certain environmental conditions, one sex is favoured over the other. Protandry is favoured in areas of high food abundance and protogyny occurs in areas of low food abundance. In habitats with a high food supply, the sex ratio in the adult population tends to favour females, and areas with low food abundances tend to have a larger proportion of male adults. Spawning in the Pacific oyster occurs at . This species is very fecund, with females releasing about 50–200 million eggs in regular intervals (at a rate of 5–10 times a minute) in a single spawning. Once released from the gonads, the eggs move through the suprabranchial chambers (gills), are then pushed through the gill ostia into the mantle chamber, and are finally released in the water, forming a small cloud. In males, the sperm is released at the opposite end of the oyster, along with the normal exhalent stream of water. A rise in water temperature is thought to be the main cue in the initiation of spawning, as the onset of higher water temperatures in the summer results in earlier spawning in the Pacific oyster.\n\nThe larvae of the Pacific oyster are planktotrophic, and are about 70 µm at the prodissoconch 1 stage. The larvae move through the water column via the use of a larval foot to find suitable settlement locations. They can spend several weeks at this phase, which is dependent on water temperature, salinity and food supply. Over these weeks, larvae can disperse great distances by water currents before they metamorphose and settle as small spat. Similar to other oyster species, once the Pacific oyster larvae find a suitable habitat, they attach to it permanently using cement secreted from a gland in their foot. After settlement, the larvae metamorphose into juvenile spat. The growth rate is very rapid in optimum environmental conditions, and market size can be achieved in 18 to 30 months.\n\nCephalopods, such as squid and octopuses, have prominent heads and a set of arms (tentacles) modified from the primitive foot of molluscs. All cephalopods are sexually dimorphic. However, they lack external sexual characteristics, so they use colour communication. A courting male approaches a likely looking mate flashing his brightest colours, often in rippling displays. If the other cephalopod is female and receptive, her skin will change colour to become pale, and mating will occur. If the other cephalopod remains brightly coloured, it is taken as a warning.\n\nAll cephalopods reproduce by spawning eggs. Most cephalopods use semi-internal fertilization where the male places his gametes inside the female's mantle cavity to fertilize the ova in the female's single ovary. The \"penis\" in most male cephalopods is a long and muscular end of the gonoduct used to transfer spermatophores to a modified sperm-carrying arm called a hectocotylus. That in turn is used to transfer the spermatophores to the female. In species where the hectocotylus is missing, the \"penis\" is long and able to extend beyond the mantle cavity and transfers the spermatophores directly to the female. In many cephalopods, mating occurs head to head and the male may simply transfer sperm to the female. Others may detach the sperm-carrying arm and leave it attached to the female. Deep water squid have the greatest known penis length relative to body size of all mobile animals, second in the entire animal kingdom only to certain sessile barnacles. Penis elongation in the greater hooked squid may result in a penis that is as long as the mantle, head and arms combined.\n\nSome species brood their fertilized eggs: female paper nautilus construct shelters for the young, while Gonatiid squid carry a larva-laden membrane from the hooks on their arms. Other cephalopods deposit their young under rocks and aerate them with their tentacles hatching. Mostly the eggs are left to their own devices; many squid lay sausage-like bunches of eggs in crevices or occasionally on the sea floor. Cuttlefish lay eggs separately in cases and attach them to coral or algal fronds. Like Pacific salmon, cephalopods are mostly semelparous, spawning many small eggs in one batch and then dying. Cephalopods usually live fast and die young. Most of the energy extracted from their food is used for growing, and they mature rapidly to their adult size. Some gain as much as 12% of their body mass each day. Most live for one to two years, reproducing and then dying shortly thereafter.\n\nEchinoderms are marine animals, widespread in all oceans, but not found in fresh water. Just below their skin is an endoskeleton composed of calcareous plates or ossicles.\n\nSea urchins are spiky echinoderms with spherical bodies which usually contain five gonads. They move slowly, feed mostly on seaweed, and are important for the diet of sea otters. Sea urchins are dioecious, having separate male and female sexes, although there is generally no easy way to distinguish the two. The gonads are lined with muscles underneath the peritoneum, and these allow the animal to squeeze its gametes through the duct and into the surrounding sea water, where fertilization takes place. Their roe (male and female gonads) is soft and melting, with a colour ranging from orange to pale yellow, and is sought after as a human delicacy in many parts of the world.\n\nSea cucumbers are leathery echinoderms with elongated bodies which contain a single, branched gonad. They are found on the sea floor worldwide, and occur in great numbers on the deep sea floor where they often make up the majority of the animal biomass. They feed on plankton and decaying organic debris found at the sea bottom, catching food that flows by with their open tentacles or sifting through bottom sediments. Like sea urchins, most sea cucumbers reproduce by releasing sperm and ova into the ocean water. Depending on conditions, one organism can produce thousands of gametes.\n\nSea cucumbers are typically dioecious, with separate male and female individuals. The reproductive system consists of a single gonad, consisting of a cluster of tubules emptying into a single duct that opens on the upper surface of the animal, close to the tentacles. Many species fertilise their eggs internally. The fertilised egg develops in a pouch on the adult's body and eventually hatches as a juvenile sea cucumber. A few species brood their young inside the body cavity, giving birth through a small rupture in the body wall close to the anus. The remaining species develop their eggs into a free-swimming larva, usually after about three days of development. This larva swims by means of a long band of cilia wrapped around its body. As the larva grows it transforms into a barrel-shaped body with three to five separate rings of cilia. The tentacles are usually the first adult features to appear, before the regular tube feet.\n\nAmphibians are found in and around fresh water lakes and ponds, but not in marine environments. Examples are frogs and toads, salamanders, newts and caecilians (which resemble snakes). They are cold-blooded animals that metamorphose from a juvenile water-breathing form, usually to an adult air-breathing form, though mudpuppies retain juvenile gills in adulthood.\n\nFemale frogs and toads usually spawn gelatinous egg masses containing thousands of eggs in water. Different species lay eggs in distinctive and identifiable ways. For example, the American toad lays long strings of eggs. The eggs are highly vulnerable to predation, so frogs have evolved many techniques to ensure the survival of the next generation. In colder areas the embryo is black to absorb more heat from the sun, which speeds up development. Most commonly, this involves synchronous reproduction. Many individuals will breed at the same time, overwhelming the actions of predators; the majority of the offspring will still die due to predation, but there is a greater chance some will survive. Another way in which some species avoid predators and the pathogens eggs are exposed to in ponds is to lay eggs on leaves above the pond, with a gelatinous coating designed to retain moisture. In these species the tadpoles drop into the water upon hatching. The eggs of some species laid out of water can detect vibrations of nearby predatory wasps or snakes, and will hatch early to avoid being eaten.\n\nWhile the length of the egg stage depends on the species and environmental conditions, aquatic eggs generally hatch within one week. Unlike salamanders and newts, frogs and toads never become sexually mature while still in their larval stage. The hatched eggs continue life as tadpoles, which typically have oval bodies and long, vertically flattened tails. As a general rule, free living larvae are fully aquatic. They lack eyelids and have a cartilaginous skeleton, a lateral line system, gills for respiration (external gills at first, internal gills later) and tails with dorsal and ventral folds of skin for swimming. They quickly develop a gill pouch that covers the gills and the front legs; the lungs are also developed at an early stage as an accessory breathing organ. Some species which go through the metamorphosis inside the egg and hatch to small frogs never develop gills; instead there are specialised areas of skin that take care of respiration. Tadpoles also lack true teeth, but the jaws in most species usually have two elongate, parallel rows of small keratinized structures called keradonts in the upper jaw while the lower jaw has three rows of keradonts, surrounded by a horny beak, but the number of rows can be lower (sometimes zero), or much higher. Tadpoles feed on algae, including diatoms filtered from the water through the gills. Some species are carnivorous at the tadpole stage, eating insects, smaller tadpoles, and fish. Cannibalism has been observed among tadpoles. Early developers who gain legs may be eaten by the others, so the late bloomers survive longer.\n\nSea turtles are amphibious reptiles, but they are not amphibians. Reptiles belong to the class Reptilia while amphibians belong to the class Amphibia. These are two distinct taxonomic groups. Reptiles have scales and leathery skins, while the skins of amphibians are smooth and porous. Unlike frogs, sea turtle eggs have tough, leathery shells which allow them to survive on land without drying out.\n\nSome sea turtles migrate long distances between feeding and spawning grounds. Green turtles have feeding grounds along the Brazilian coast. Each year, thousands of these turtles migrate about to their spawning ground, Ascension Island in the Atlantic, an island only across. Each year the returning turtles dig between 6,000 and 15,000 nests, often returning to the same beach from where they hatched. Females usually mate every two to four years. Males on the other hand visit the breeding areas every year, attempting to mate. Green sea turtles' mating is similar to other marine turtles. Female turtles control the process. A few populations practice polyandry, although this does not seem to benefit hatchlings. After mating in the water, the female moves above the beach's high tide line where she digs a hole with her hind flippers and deposits her eggs. Litter size depends on the age of the female and species, but green turtle clutches range between 100 and 200. She then covers the nest with sand and returns to the sea.\n\nAt around 45 to 75 days, the eggs hatch during the night and the hatchlings instinctively head directly into the water. This is the most dangerous time in a turtle's life. As they walk, predators such as gulls and crabs grab them. A significant percentage never make it to the ocean. Little is known of the initial life history of newly hatched sea turtles. Juveniles spend three to five years in the open ocean before they settle as still-immature juveniles into their permanent shallow-water lifestyle. It is speculated that they take twenty to fifty years to reach sexual maturity. Individuals live up to eighty years in the wild. They are among the larger sea turtles, many more than a meter long and weighing up to .\n\nAquatic insects also spawn. Mayflies \"are famed for their short adult life. Some species have under an hour to mate and lay their eggs before they die. Their pre-adult stage, known as the subimago, may be even shorter - perhaps lasting just a few minutes before they moult into their adult form. Therefore a mayfly spends most of its life as a nymph, hidden from view under the water.\"\n\nCorals can be both gonochoristic (unisexual) and hermaphroditic, each of which can reproduce sexually and asexually. Reproduction also allows corals to settle new areas.\n\nCorals predominantly reproduce sexually. 25% of hermatypic corals (stony corals) form single sex (gonochoristic) colonies, while the rest are hermaphroditic. About 75% of all hermatypic corals \"broadcast spawn\" by releasing gametes—eggs and sperm—into the water to spread offspring. The gametes fuse during fertilization to form a microscopic larva called a planula, typically pink and elliptical in shape. A typical coral colony form several thousand larvae per year to overcome the odds against formation of a new colony.\n\nPlanulae exhibit positive \"phototaxis\", swimming towards light to reach surface waters where they drift and grow before descending to seek a hard surface to which they can attach and establish a new colony. They also exhibit positive \"sonotaxis\", moving towards sounds that emanate from the reef and away from open water. High failure rates afflict many stages of this process, and even though millions of gametes are released by each colony very few new colonies form. The time from spawning to settling is usually 2–3 days, but can be up to 2 months. The larva grows into a polyp and eventually becomes a coral head by asexual budding and growth.\n\nSynchronous spawning is very typical on the coral reef and often, even when multiple species are present, all corals spawn on the same night. This synchrony is essential so that male and female gametes can meet. Corals must rely on environmental cues, varying from species to species, to determine the proper time to release gametes into the water. The cues involve lunar changes, sunset time, and possibly chemical signalling. Synchronous spawning may form hybrids and is perhaps involved in coral speciation. In some places the spawn can be visually dramatic, clouding the usually clear water with gametes, typically at night.\n\nCorals use two methods for sexual reproduction, which differ in whether the female gametes are released:\n\n\nFungi are not plants, and require different conditions for optimal growth. Plants develop through photosynthesis, a process that converts atmospheric carbon dioxide into carbohydrates, especially cellulose. While sunlight provides an energy source for plants, mushrooms derive all of their energy and growth materials from their growth medium, through biochemical decomposition processes. This does not mean that light is an unnecessary requirement, since some fungi use light as a signal to induce fruiting. However, all the materials for growth must already be present in the growth medium. Instead of seeds, mushrooms reproduce sexually during underground growth, and asexually through spores. Either of these can be contaminated with airborne microorganisms, which will interfere with mushroom growth and prevent a healthy crop. Mycelium, or actively growing mushroom culture, is placed on growth substrate to seed or introduce mushrooms to grow on a substrate. This is also known as inoculation, spawning or adding spawn. Its main advantages are to reduce chances of contamination while giving mushrooms a firm beginning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40901506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40901506", "title": "Super Genjin 2", "text": "Super Genjin 2\n\n, is a 1995 2D platform video game by Hudson Soft for Super Famicom. It is the sequel to \"Super Bonk\" in the \"Bonk\" series, and the only platform game in the series never to be released outside Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "47539265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47539265", "title": "The Angel (1982 film)", "text": "The Angel (1982 film)\n\nThe Angel () is a 1982 French silent experimental art film directed by Patrick Bokanowski. It was released on DVD for the first time in 2009, edited by the British Animation Awards. The film was shown at Fantasporto during February 1983 and opened to the general public in France on 4 April 1984.\n\nGiven that the film is experimental, there is no proper narrative; rather, there is a guideline governing its development. The masked silhouettes climb stairs, and engage in various meetings on each level. This is a spiritual quest that doubles as a research on optical illusions, Bokanowski recreating all the objectives of his cameras. This is a feature film, which is rare for artisanal animation and experimental films.\n\nIn the booklet that accompanies the DVD which contains Bokanowski's sole two documentaries (\"La Part du Hasard\", 1984, on the painter Henri Dimier; and \"Le Rêve éveillé\", 2003; dialogues between the psychotherapist Colette Aboulker-Muscat and her patients), editor Pip Chodorov wrote: \"The search for the overrunning of perception, and thereby oneself, is an expression of the spirituality present in the lives of these two figures: inspiration that we also found in Bokanowski's films, which are also searches into abstraction in the real, mysterious blanks that recover the daily. In his film \"The Angel\", characters search for light, and rise in spirals towards beacons of white and pure light, the librarian-researchers conduct a fierce intellectual quest, hoping for an illuminating response buried under mountains of books. Light plays a central role for the filmmaker, just like it does for the painter and therapist, as a peak of dramatic pleasure. We are pulled forward, upward, through these leaks in the twilight towards the light.\"\n\nA CD album containing the soundtrack accompanying the film, composed by Michèle Bokanowski, the director's wife, was released during 2003 by the label trAace under the title \"L'Ange\".\n\n\n\nAccording to Raphaël Bassan, in his article «\"L'Ange\": Un météore dans le ciel de l'animation,» Patrick Bokanowski's film, along with Piotr Kamler's film \"Chronopolis\", both having premiered in 1982 at the Cannes Film Festival, can be considered the beginnings of contemporary animation. This remark is based on the technical means and the visual or philosophical sense employed by Patrick Bokanowski. The masks erase all human personality in the characters. Patrick Bokanowski would thus have total control over the \"matter\" of the image and its optical composition. This is especially noticeable throughout the film, with images taken through distorted objectives or a plastic work on the sets and costumes, for example in the scene of the designer.\n\nAgain according to Raphaël Bassan, \"The Angel\" can be seen as a spiritual ascension. Patrick Bokanowski creates his own universe and obeys his own aesthetic logic. It takes us through a series of distorted areas, obscure visions, metamorphoses, and synthetic objects. Indeed, in the film, the human may be viewed as a fetish object (for example, the doll hanging by a thread), with reference to Kafkaesque and Freudian theories on automata and the fear of man faced with something as complex as him. The ascent of the stairs would be the liberation of the ideas of death, culture, and sex that makes us reach the emblematic figure of the angel.\n\nFor Jacques Kermabon, \"The Angel\" is a variation of optics, as control and manipulation of light, as attested by the integration of plastic optical devices. Similarly, the effects on perspective diagrams emphasizes the relativity of this representation process. In the same gesture, the aesthetics of \"The Angel\", which opens up an infinity of possibilities, announces a cinema that would be before any movement, rhythm, rhyme, form, or work on the color and material: a cinema where the meaning is dissolved and effect predominates. In a way, Patrick Bokanowski brilliantly realized what some artists-filmmakers envisioned in the 1920s: an aesthetic for creations to come – the \"Cinéma pur\" and the first avant-garde.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3765762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3765762", "title": "The Mobile Cop Jiban", "text": "The Mobile Cop Jiban\n\nThe opening catchphrase of the series is: \n\nNaoto Tamura, a new detective in Central City, is killed by a Bionoid Monster in the line of duty. Doctor Kenzo Igarashi, a man whose experiments had been responsible for the Bioron syndicate's existence, brought the man back to life as a cyborg detective, Jiban. Eventually Madogarbo and Rhinonoid killed Jiban, who returned to life again as Perfect Jiban (basically the same design as the original, but with a blue-colored metal body and three new weapons). In the finale, Biolon destroyed Jiban's base and transformed Madogarbo into false Jiban. Jiban defeated his duplicate and ultimately Gibanoid, the true form of Biolon's leader Doctor Giba. The victorious Jiban then learned that Mayumi Igarashi, the one civilian that knew his secret, had been his missing younger sister all along.\n\nIn human form, Naoto often plays the fool and is looked on down by Yoko and Kiyoshiro for this, but Yoko begins to warm up to him after realizing he could be Jiban. In the Filipino Dubbing Version, His name was Marco Tamura. \n\n\nEvery episode, when Jiban faces his Bionoid enemy, he ejects his badge from his waist and shows it to the monster, reading a code of articles and laws that served as his directives (much like the CPU Directives in \"RoboCop\", but giving him a greater freedom instead of restraining it):\n\n\n\nThe Maximillian Type 3 can also perform the following moves and techniques:\n\n\nAn armed force organized by the mysterious scientist Doctor Giba intending to take over Japan by means of narrow attacks rather than large-scale destruction. Their theme/weapon is biochemistry.\n\nBionoids are the product of Doctor Giba's research. They can disguise themselves as humans.\n\n\nA movie for the series, entitled \"The Mobile Cop Jiban: Great Explosion at the Monster Factory of Fear\", was released on July 15, 1989 Special as part of the 1989 \"Manga Matsuri\" Special Festival.\n\n\n\nJiban's episodes and movie has been released in Japan in several VHS tapes. Though it had been obscure for a long time with the rest of the other Metal Hero TV shows, there has been sightings of a DVD release. Toei later released the series in DVD from June 21, 2009 to October 21, 2009.\n\nIn 2009 \"Jiban\" was released on R2 DVD in 5 volumes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2903228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2903228", "title": "The Mothman Prophecies (film)", "text": "The Mothman Prophecies (film)\n\nThe Mothman Prophecies is a 2002 U.S. supernatural horror-mystery film directed by Mark Pellington, and starring Richard Gere and Laura Linney. Based on the 1975 book of the same name by parapsychologist and Fortean author John Keel, the screenplay was written by Richard Hatem. \n\nThe story follows John Klein (Gere), a reporter who researches the legend of the Mothman. After a lengthy detour he has no memory of, he finds himself in Point Pleasant, West Virginia, where there have been sightings of an unusual creature and other unexplained phenomena. Many of the sightings remind him of his dead wife. As he becomes increasingly drawn into mysterious forces at work, he hopes they can reconnect him to his wife, while the local sheriff (Linney) becomes concerned about his obsessions.\n\nThe film claims to be based on actual events that occurred between November 1966 and December 1967 in Point Pleasant, as described by Keel. It was shot in Pittsburgh and Kittanning, Pennsylvania and was released to mixed reviews.\n\n\"Washington Post\" columnist John Klein and his wife Mary are involved in an accident when Mary swerves to avoid a black, flying figure. John survives the crash unscathed, but Mary is hospitalized. After Mary dies of an unrelated brain tumor, John discovers mysterious drawings of the creature that she had created prior to the night of the accident.\n\nTwo years later, John becomes lost in West Virginia and inexplicably finds himself in Point Pleasant, hundreds of miles off his route. Driving in the middle of the night, his car breaks down; and he walks to a nearby house to get help. The owner, Gordon Smallwood, reacts violently to John's appearance and holds him at gunpoint. Local police officer Connie Mills defuses the situation while Gordon explains that this is the third consecutive night John has knocked on his door asking to use a phone, much to John's confusion. John stays at a local motel and considers how he ended up so far from his original destination.\n\nOfficer Mills mentions to John that many strange things have been occurring in the past few weeks and that people report seeing a large winged creature like a giant moth with red eyes. She also tells John about a strange dream she had, in which the words \"Wake up, Number 37\" were spoken to her. While conversing with Gordon one day, it is revealed to John that he had heard voices from his sink telling him that, in Denver, \"99 will die\". While discussing the day's events at a local diner, John notices that the news is showing a story on an airplane crash in Denver that killed all 99 passengers aboard. The next night, Gordon frantically explains that he had met the voices in his head, a being named Indrid Cold.\n\nLater that night, Gordon calls John and says that he is standing with someone named Indrid Cold. While John keeps Cold on the line, Officer Mills checks on Gordon. Cold answers John's questions, including ones he could not possibly know the answers to, convincing John that Cold is a supernatural being. This episode starts a string of supernatural calls to John's motel room. One tells him that there will be a great tragedy on the Ohio River. Later, John receives a call from Gordon and rushes to his home to check on him. He finds Gordon outside, dead from exposure.\n\nJohn becomes obsessed with the being, dubbed the Mothman. He meets an expert on the subject, Alexander Leek, who explains its nature and discourages John from becoming further involved. However, when John learns the Governor plans to tour a chemical plant located on the Ohio River the following day, he becomes convinced the tragedy will occur there. Officer Mills and the governor ignore his warnings, and nothing happens during the tour. Soon afterwards, John receives a mysterious message that instructs him to await a call from his deceased wife Mary back in Georgetown, and he returns home.\n\nOn Christmas Eve, Officer Mills calls and convinces him to ignore the phone call from \"Mary\", return to Point Pleasant, and join her. Though anguished, John agrees. As John reaches the Silver Bridge, a malfunctioning traffic light causes traffic congestion. As John walks onto the bridge to investigate, the bolts and supports of the bridge strain. The bridge comes apart, and John realizes that the prophesied tragedy on the Ohio River was about the bridge. As the bridge collapses, Officer Mills' car falls into the water. John jumps in after her and pulls her from the river and up to safety. As the two sit on the back of an ambulance, they see that 36 people have been killed, making Connie the \"number 37\" from her dream. The cause of the bridge collapse was never fully determined. Although the Mothman has been sighted in other parts of the world, it was never seen again in Point Pleasant.\n\n\nWriter Paul Meehan judged the film's explanation of the Mothman to be a \"confused mish-mosh of science fiction and demonology\" and likened it to the television series \"The X-Files\", though preserving Keel's \"breathless hysteria\". Meehan remarked that \"Aliens spouting prophetic utterances are rare in UFO literature\".\n\nIn contrast to Meehan, author Jason Horsley declared \"The Mothman Prophecies\" \"probably the most effective depiction of demonic forces at work\" in U.S. cinema. Horsley assessed its approach to the Mothman legend as depicting a \"schizophrenic nature of reality\", fulfilling a \"revelation\" purpose in horror film, as it \"strips away the comfortable veneer of consensus reality to reveal the seething abyss of irrationality\". Horsley argued the film's Mothman arrives from a foreign dimension, but being without \"physical existence\", it is also a product of the minds of Point Pleasant's citizens, based on \"formless and impersonal energy\". The Mothman, identified by Horsley as \"emissary of the Id\", is depicted in the film as being as natural as electricity or gravity.\n\nCarl Franklin was originally attached to direct Richard Hatem's spec script before Mark Pellington was hired. Pellington rejected numerous screenplay drafts as literal interpretations of Keel's book, and wished to explore psychological drama in UFO witnesses.\n\nIn reality, 46 people died in the collapse of the Silver Bridge, not 36 as depicted in the film. The motion picture's claim at the end credits of the collapse of the Silver Bridge never being explained is false; the incident was found to be caused by the failure of an eye-bar in a suspension chain in 1971, well before the publication of the book on which the film is based, let alone the film.\n\nAside from a few opening scenes filmed in Washington, D.C., most of the motion picture was filmed in the areas of Pittsburgh and Kittanning in Pennsylvania. The scenes of Gere sitting on a park bench are on the University of Pittsburgh campus. Road montages were filmed on Pennsylvania Route 28, and the Chicago scenes are completely shot in downtown Pittsburgh’s Mellon Square and Trinity Churchyard environs as well as the entrance to the Duquesne Club. The \"Chemical Plant\" featured in the movie is actually a power station owned by Reliant Energy in Elrama, Pennsylvania. The Avalon Motor Inn is in Eighty Four, Pennsylvania, though scenes set indoors were built as separate sets, as the inn's atmosphere could not accommodate production. Point Pleasant scenes were shot in Kittanning, Pennsylvania. The hospital scenes were filmed at St. Frances Medical Center which is now the site of Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh. \nThe collapse of the Silver Bridge was actually filmed at the Kittanning Citizens Bridge in downtown Kittanning. Scenes shot at Gordon Smallwood’s house were filmed in Washington County on Pennsylvania Route 917. Pittsburgh’s Allegheny County Airport serves as backdrop for the airfield scenes. Despite this relocation, several police officers from Point Pleasant appeared as extras.\n\nThe film's musical score was composed by the creative lab tomandandy. On January 22, 2002. Lakeshore Records released a two-disc edition of the soundtrack.\n\nAfter the film was theatrically released on January 25, 2002, writer Brad Steiger observed Point Pleasant became a focal point for its promotion. Marketing in television and posters emphasized claims it was \"based on true events\", despite the supernatural premise and Pellington's acknowledgement that the account was reframed as a fictional narrative. \n\nIn 2002, a Region 1 edition of the motion picture was released on DVD in May 2003. Special features included audio commentary by Pellington, a documentary entitled \"Search for the Mothman\", and the featurette \"Day by Day: A Director's Journey – The Road In\". In Region 2, a DVD was published also including \"Search for the Mothman\" as well as interviews with Gere, Linney and Patton.\n\nAmong mainstream critics in the U.S., the film received mixed reviews. Rotten Tomatoes reported that 52% of 138 sampled critics gave the film a positive review, with an average score of 5.5 out of 10. At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average out of 100 to critics' reviews, \"The Mothman Prophecies\" received a score of 52 based on 32 reviews. In 2003, the film won the \"Best Sound Editing: Music in a Feature Film\" award from the society of the Motion Picture Sound Editors.\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave it two stars out of four, calling it unfocused, but praised the direction by Mark Pellington \"whose command of camera, pacing and the overall effect is so good, it deserves a better screenplay.\" \"The New York Times\" critic Elvis Mitchell judged it \"hushed and smooth\" but \"little more than an adequate shard of winter-doldrums genre fare\". \"The Washington Post\"s Stephen Hunter dismissed it as \"all buzz: It's camerawork on the verge of a meltdown and weird music in search of a composer\", and joked seeing it \"is like getting mugged in an alley by an especially thuggish crew of Method actors\". In \"Variety\", Robert Koehler claimed it \"wanders away from its sustained atmospherics into silly expository detours\". For \"The Guardian\", Bob Rickard defended it as \"an intelligent and creative exploration of the slippery, dream-like world of those who 'get too close'\".\n\n\"The Mothman Prophecies\" opened at the U.S. box office on January 25, 2002, earning $11,208,851 in its first weekend failing to enter the top five grossing films. It eventually went on to garner $35,746,370 in the U.S., and $19,411,169 in foreign markets for a worldwide total of $55,157,539.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "61645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61645", "title": "Theodosius II", "text": "Theodosius II\n\nTheodosius II (; ; 10 April 401 – 28 July 450), commonly surnamed Theodosius the Younger, or Theodosius the Calligrapher, was the Eastern Roman Emperor for most of his life, taking the throne as an infant in 402 and ruling as the Eastern Empire's sole emperor after the death of his father Arcadius in 408. He is mostly known for promulgating the Theodosian law code, and for the construction of the Theodosian Walls of Constantinople. He also presided over the outbreak of two great Christological controversies, Nestorianism and Eutychianism.\n\nTheodosius was born in 401 as the only son of Emperor Arcadius and his Frankish-born wife Aelia Eudoxia. Already in January 402 he was proclaimed co-Augustus by his father, thus becoming the youngest person ever to bear this title in Roman history. In 408, his father died and the seven-year-old boy became Emperor of the Eastern half of the Roman Empire.\n\nAccording to Procopius, the Sasanian king Yazdegerd I (399-420) was appointed by Arcadius as the guardian of Theodosius, whom Yazdegerd treated as his own child, sending a tutor to raise him and warning that enmity toward him would be taken as enmity toward Persia.\n\nGovernment was at first by the Praetorian Prefect Anthemius, under whose supervision the Theodosian land walls of Constantinople were constructed.\n\nIn 414, Theodosius' older sister Pulcheria was proclaimed Augusta and assumed the regency. By 416 Theodosius was declared Augustus in his own right and the regency ended, but his sister remained a strong influence on him. In June 421, Theodosius married Aelia Eudocia, a woman of Greek origin. The two had a daughter named Licinia Eudoxia. A separation ultimately occurred between the imperial couple, with Eudocia's establishment in Jerusalem where she favoured monastic Monophysitism and Pulcheria reassuming an influential role with the support of the eunuch Chrysaphius.\n\nTheodosius' increasing interest in Christianity, fuelled by the influence of Pulcheria, led him to go to war against the Sassanids (421–422), who were persecuting Christians; the war ended in a stalemate, when the Romans were forced to accept peace as the Huns menaced Constantinople.\n\nIn 423, the Western Emperor Honorius, Theodosius' uncle, died and the \"primicerius notariorum\" Joannes was proclaimed Emperor. Honorius' sister Galla Placidia and her young son Valentinian fled to Constantinople to seek Eastern assistance and after some deliberation in 424 Theodosius opened the war against Joannes. On 23 October 425, Valentinian III was installed as Emperor of the West with the assistance of the \"magister officiorum\" Helion, with his mother acting as regent. To strengthen the ties between the two parts of the Empire, Theodosius' daughter Licinia Eudoxia was betrothed to Valentinian.\n\nIn 425, Theodosius founded the University of Constantinople with 31 chairs (15 in Latin and 16 in Greek). Among subjects were law, philosophy, medicine, arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, music and rhetoric.\n\nIn 429, Theodosius appointed a commission to collect all of the laws since the reign of Constantine I, and create a fully formalized system of law. This plan was left unfinished, but the work of a second commission that met in Constantinople, assigned to collect all of the general legislations and bring them up to date was completed, and their collection published as the \"Codex Theodosianus\" in 438. The law code of Theodosius II, summarizing edicts promulgated since Constantine, formed a basis for the law code of Emperor Justinian I, the \"Corpus Juris Civilis\", in the following century.\n\nThe war with Persia proved indecisive, and a peace was arranged in 422 without changes to the \"status quo\". The later wars of Theodosius were generally less successful.\n\nThe Eastern Empire was plagued by raids by the Huns. Early in Theodosius II's reign Romans used internal Hun discord to overcome Uldin's invasion of the Balkans. The Romans strengthened their fortifications and in 424 agreed to pay 350 pounds of gold to encourage the Huns to remain at peace with the Romans. In 433 with the rise of Attila and Bleda to unify the Huns, the payment was doubled to 700 pounds.\n\nWhen Roman Africa fell to the Vandals in 439, both Eastern and Western Emperors sent forces to Sicily, intending to launch an attack on the Vandals at Carthage, but this project failed. Seeing the Imperial borders without significant forces, the Huns and Sassanid Persia both attacked and the expeditionary force had to be recalled. During 443 two Roman armies were defeated and destroyed by the Huns. Anatolius negotiated a peace agreement; the Huns withdrew in exchange for humiliating concessions, including an annual tribute of 2,100 Roman pounds (ca. 687 kg) of gold. In 447 the Huns went through the Balkans, destroying among others the city of Serdica (Sofia) and reaching Athyra (Büyükçekmece) on the outskirts of Constantinople.\n\nDuring a visit to Syria, Theodosius met the monk Nestorius, who was a renowned preacher. He appointed Nestorius Archbishop of Constantinople in 428. Nestorius quickly became involved in the disputes of two theological factions, which differed in their Christology. Nestorius tried to find a middle ground between those who, emphasizing the fact that in Christ God had been born as a man, insisted on calling the Virgin Mary \"Theotokos\" (\"birth-giver of God\"), and those who rejected that title because God, as an eternal being, could not have been born. Nestorius suggested the title \"Christotokos\" (\"birth-giver of Christ\") as a compromise, but it did not find acceptance with either faction. He was accused of separating Christ's divine and human natures, resulting in \"two Christs\", a heresy later called Nestorianism. Though initially supported by the emperor, Nestorius found a forceful opponent in Archbishop Cyril of Alexandria. At the request of Nestorius, the emperor called a council, which convened in Ephesus in 431. This council affirmed the title \"Theotokos\" and condemned Nestorius, who returned to his monastery in Syria and was eventually exiled to a remote monastery in Egypt.\n\nAlmost twenty years later, the theological dispute broke out again, this time caused by the Constantinopolitan abbot Eutyches, whose Christology was understood by some to mingle Christ's divine and human nature into one. Eutyches was condemned by Archbishop Flavian of Constantinople but found a powerful friend in Cyril's successor Dioscurus of Alexandria. Another council was convoked in Ephesus in 449, later deemed a \"robber synod\" by Pope Leo I because of its tumultuous circumstances. This council restored Eutyches and deposed Flavian, who was mistreated and died shortly afterwards. Leo of Rome and many other bishops protested against the outcome, but the emperor supported it. Only after his death in 450 would the decisions be reversed at the Council of Chalcedon.\n\nTheodosius died in 450 as the result of a riding accident. In the ensuing power struggle, his sister Pulcheria, who had recently returned to court, won out against the eunuch Chrysaphius. She married the general Marcian, thereby making him Emperor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50381285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50381285", "title": "Thomas Britten", "text": "Thomas Britten\n\nThomas Britten (born 6 March 1858) was a Welsh footballer. He was part of the Wales national football team between 1878 and 1880, playing 2 matches. He played his first match on 23 March 1878 against Scotland and his last match on 27 March 1880 against Scotland. Britten played for the Glasgow club Parkgrove FC and for a Glasgow select in an inter-city challenge match.\n"}
{"id": "7614784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7614784", "title": "Thomas Coke (bishop)", "text": "Thomas Coke (bishop)\n\nThomas Coke (9 September 1747 – 2 May 1814) was the first Methodist bishop and is known as the Father of Methodist Missions.\n\nBorn in Brecon, South Wales, his father, Barthomolew, was a well-to-do apothecary. Coke, who was only 5 foot and 1 inch tall and prone to being overweight, read Jurisprudence at Jesus College, Oxford, which has a strong Welsh tradition, graduating Bachelor of Arts, then Master of Arts in 1770, and Doctor of Civil Law in 1775. On returning to Brecon he served as mayor in 1772.\n\nIn the same year as his mayoralty he was ordained in the Church of England and served a curacy at South Petherton in Somerset. He had already allied himself with the Methodist movement, and this made for trouble when a new rector arrived in the parish. Coke had begun to hold cottage services and open services of the sort promoted by John Wesley. He was dismissed from his post on Easter Sunday 1777, and his parishioners celebrated at the rector's behest by ringing the church bells and opening a hogshead of cider. He returned to Petherton in 1807 and preached to a crowd of 2,000.\n\nHe met John Wesley in August 1776, becoming one of his closest assistants. Wesley called Coke \"the flea\" because he seemed always to be hopping around on his missions.\n\nHe was appointed Superintendent of the London District in 1780 and President of the Methodist Church in Ireland in 1782 - a function he was to serve many times in the coming decades.\n\nIn January 1784, Thomas Parker, \"a barrister and able local preacher from York\", joined Coke in issuing a \"Plan of the Society for the Establishment of Missions among the Heathens\" (Coke 2013:48; Vickers 2013:133-135)\n\nFollowing the American Revolution, most of the Anglican clergy who had been in America came back to England. Wesley asked the Bishop of London to ordain some ministers for the New World, but he declined. At this point Wesley still considered only a canonically consecrated bishop capable of conferring Holy Orders. However, in September 1784, in Bristol, Wesley consecrated Coke as Superintendent, a title replaced in 1787 in America by that of Bishop (Greek \"episkopos\") in spite of Wesley's strong disapproval (\"superintendent\" is etymologically equivalent to \"episkopos\"). Since Coke was already a priest (Greek \"presbuteros\") or presbyter in the Church of England, some interpret this consecration as the equivalent of episcopal consecration. Wesley's action took place two months before the consecration in Aberdeen of Samuel Seabury as bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church of the USA. Coke set sail for New York; during the voyage he read Augustine's \"Confessions\", Virgil's \"Georgics\", biographies of Francis Xavier (Jesuit missionary to India) and David Brainerd (Puritan missionary to North American aboriginals), and a treatise on episcopacy. A conference of Methodist preachers was held at Baltimore, starting on Christmas Day 1784, at which Coke and Francis Asbury were elected superintendents, and the Church was constituted as an independent body under the name of the Methodist Episcopal Church. On 27 December Coke ordained deacons and presbyters and consecrated Asbury as Superintendent; Coke and Asbury are regarded as having been jointly the first superintendents of the Methodist Church in America (the American Methodist Conference formally endorsed the title of Bishop in 1787).\n\nCoke returned to England in June 1785 and made eight further visits to America, his final visit being in 1803. While in America he spoke out against slavery and wrote a letter on the subject to George Washington. Washington met Coke twice and even invited him to preach before Congress. After spending some months travelling throughout Great Britain and Ireland, Coke made his first mission to the West Indies in 1786, making further visits in 1788-89, 1790, and 1792-93.\n\nFollowing Wesley's death in 1791 Coke became Secretary to the British Conference, having been widely supposed to be Wesley's desired successor. He was President of the Conference in 1797 and 1805, on both occasions trying to persuade the Conference to confer on him the official title of Bishop.\n\nIn the same year he went to Paris and preached in French. He established a mission in Gibraltar in 1803 and then spent five years travelling in the cause of Methodist missions, including visiting Sierra Leone. He promoted others in setting up missions in Canada and Scotland.\n\nOn 1 April 1805, at the age of 58, Coke married Penelope Goulding Smith, a wealthy woman who happily spent her personal fortune furthering the missions. She travelled with him until her death on 25 January 1811. That same year in December he married for a second time, to Anne Loxdale, and his wife died the following year, 5 December 1812.\n\nHe hoped to open Methodist missions in the East Indies and at his own expense he set sail for Ceylon on 30 December 1813. He had in fact tried to persuade the Prime Minister, Lord Liverpool, to appoint him to an Indian bishopric in the Church of England (the appointment of Church of England bishops being then, as now, a prerogative exercised by the Prime Minister on behalf of the Sovereign). However, Coke died after four months at sea on the way to Ceylon (Sri Lanka). It is thought he died of a \"fit of apoplexy,\" or possibly a stroke. He died aboard ship, located 2 degrees, 29 minutes south latitude, and 59 degrees, 29 minutes east longitude, in the Indian Ocean, where he was also laid to rest.\n\nAsbury described Coke as \"a gentleman, a scholar, a bishop to us; and as a minister of Christ, in zeal, in labours, in services, the greatest man in the last century.\"\n\nCoke's publications included:\n\nHe also contributed to Henry Moore's \"Life of Wesley\" (1792).\n\n\n\nThomas Coke Commentary on the Holy Bible\n"}
{"id": "7030012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7030012", "title": "Tod Slaughter", "text": "Tod Slaughter\n\nTod Slaughter (born Norman Carter Slaughter, 19 March 1885 – 19 February 1956) was an English actor, best known for playing over-the-top maniacs in macabre film adaptations of Victorian melodramas.\n\nSlaughter was born in Newcastle upon Tyne, where he attended the Royal Grammar School. The eldest surviving son of 12 children, he made his way onto the stage in 1905 at West Hartlepool. In 1913, he became a lessee of the Hippodrome theatres at Richmond and Croydon. After a brief interruption to serve during World War I in the Royal Flying Corps, Slaughter resumed his career and returned to the stage.\n\nDuring this period, his stage name was \"N. Carter Slaughter\" and he primarily played the conventional leading man or character roles—seldom the villain. After the war, he ran the Theatre Royal, Chatham before taking over the Elephant and Castle Theatre in South London for a memorable few years from 1924 onwards that have since passed into British theatrical legend. Slaughter's company revived Victorian \"blood-and-thunder\" melodramas such as \"Maria Marten\", \"Sweeney Todd\", \"Jack Sheppard\" and \"The Silver King\" to enthusiastic audiences—not just locals but also sophisticated theatregoers from the West End who might have initially come for a cheap laugh but ended up enthralled by the power of the fare on offer. Slaughter also staged other types of production such as the annual Christmas pantomime where he would cast prominent local personalities in bit-parts for audience recognition. Despite a local protest, the Elephant and Castle Theatre was closed down in 1927, Slaughter's company vacating it several months before the end.\n\nIt was in 1925 that he adopted the stage name \"Tod Slaughter\", but his primary roles were still character and heroic leads—not the evil-doers. He played the young hero in \"The Face at the Window\", the poacher Tom Robinson in \"It's Never Too Late To Mend\", and the village idiot Tim Winterbottom in \"Maria Marten\". He also played the title character in \"Sherlock Holmes\" and D'Artagnan in \"The Three Musketeers.\" Silent footage exists of Slaughter acting on stage at the Elephant and Castle in the military melodrama \"The Flag Lieutenant\" in a documentary entitled \"London After Dark\". It is said he briefly retired from acting to become a chicken farmer at the start of the 1930s, but it proved a short-lived venture and he was soon back managing his company touring the provinces and outlying London theatres with a repertoire of Victorian melodramas.\n\nIn 1931 at the New Theatre, London he played Long John Silver in \"Treasure Island\" during the day and the body snatcher William Hare in \"The Crimes Of Burke And Hare\" at night. Publicised as 'Mr Murder', he lapped up his new-found notoriety by boasting he committed 15 murders each day for the duration of the run. Shortly afterwards, he played \"Sweeney Todd, the Demon Barber of Fleet Street\" for the first of 2,000 times on stage. Actor and role had found each other much in the same way as Béla Lugosi and \"Dracula\" and the seal was set on Slaughter's subsequent career.\n\nIn 1934 aged 49, he began in films. Usually cast as a villain, his first film was \"Maria Marten or Murder in the Red Barn\" (1935) a Victorian melodrama filmed cheaply with Slaughter as the obvious evil-doer, and identified as such at the beginning of the play. In the old melodramatic style, each main member of the cast is introduced before the play begins and has his role explained. When Slaughter comes on, he favours the audience with a cold, evil grin as the on-stage announcer says \"Squire Corder, Lord of the Manor...and a villain! Whose blood may be blue—but whose heart is black as night!\". This set the general tone for the whole film series, although the introduction format was not used again.\n\nSlaughter’s next film role was as Sweeney Todd in \"\" (1936), directed and produced by George King, whose partnership with Slaughter was continued in the subsequent shockers: \"The Crimes of Stephen Hawke\" (1936); \"It's Never Too Late To Mend\" (1937); \"The Ticket of Leave Man\" (1938); \"The Face at the Window\" (1939) and \"Crimes at the Dark House\" (1940). Most of these films were 'quota quickies', films made quickly and cheaply to fulfil a government requirement that a certain portion of all films distributed by British studios had to be British made. Many such were forgettable, low-quality films, but the lack of studio interest paradoxically made for quality in one way: it gave the maker, by default, artistic control over the final product. Slaughter made the films, for the most part, exactly as he liked, with all the over-the-top melodramatic acting of a bygone age, just as he did on stage. The result was often a fascinating record of once-popular Victorian sensational fiction (\"Sweeney Todd\", Hawkshaw the Detective in \"The Ticket-of-Leave Man\") and sensational factual cases (Maria Martin, victim of \"Murder in the Red Barn\"), done in the style that the original audiences would have expected, but which no other modern filmmaker would have done. If the Victorians could have made feature films, they might well have looked like the works of Tod Slaughter.\n\nThere were, however, some non-melodramatic roles in his career. He was a supporting player in \"The Song of the Road\" (1937) and \"Darby and Joan\" (1937). In \"Sexton Blake and the Hooded Terror\" (1938), he played the head of an international gang of super-villains.\n\nSlaughter was busy on stage during World War II, performing \"Jack the Ripper, Landru\" and \"Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde\". There were also one-act sketches such as \"The Touch of a Child\".\n\nAfter the war, Slaughter resumed melodramatic roles on screen and starred in \"The Curse of the Wraydons\" (1946), in which Bruce Seton played the legendary Victorian bogeyman Spring-Heeled Jack, and \"The Greed of William Hart\" (1948) based on the murderous career of Burke and Hare. These were produced by Ambassador Films at Bushey Studios, who had made a healthy profit rereleasing Tod's 1930s films during the war years.\n\nDuring the early 1950s, Slaughter appeared as the villain in two crime films \"King of the Underworld\" (1952) and \"Murder at Scotland Yard\" (1953) and he was still regularly touring the provinces and London suburbs. However, the public's appetite for melodrama seemed to have abated somewhat by this stage and he was declared bankrupt in 1953 owing to a downturn in his touring income. He continued to act in stage productions, however, such as Molière's \"The Gay Invalid\" opposite future horror star Peter Cushing, and acting as the Master of Ceremonies at an evening of old-fashioned music hall.\n\nHis last two films were each three episodes of the television series \"Inspector Morley\" cobbled together for theatrical release. A version of \"Spring-Heeled Jack\" starring Tod was one of the first live TV plays mounted by the BBC after the war.\n\nStill performing on the stage almost to the very end, Slaughter died of coronary thrombosis. After his death following a performance of \"Maria Marten\" in Derby, his work slipped almost completely into obscurity.\n\nFilm historians have revived interest in Slaughter's cycle of melodramatic films, placing them in a tradition of \"cinema of excess\" which also includes the Gainsborough Melodramas and Hammer Horrors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22391154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22391154", "title": "Von Braun-Fernwald's sign", "text": "Von Braun-Fernwald's sign\n\nVon Braun-Fernwald's sign is a clinical sign in which there is an irregular softening and enlargement of the uterine fundus during early pregnancy. It occurs at 5–8 weeks gestation.\n\nThe sign is named after Karl von Braun-Fernwald.\n\nPiskacek's sign\n"}
{"id": "11680441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11680441", "title": "William B. Rochester", "text": "William B. Rochester\n\nWilliam Beatty Rochester (January 29, 1789 Hagerstown, Washington County, Maryland – June 14, 1838) was an American lawyer and politician from New York.\n\nRochester was the first child of Col. Nathaniel Rochester (1752–1831), founder of the City of Rochester, New York, and Sophia (née Beatty) Rochester (1768–1845). Mayor Thomas H. Rochester was his brother.\n\nHe attended the public schools and graduated from Charlotte Hall Military Academy.\n\nDuring the War of 1812, Rochester was an aide-de-camp to Gen. George McClure. After the war, he studied law with his uncle Judge Adam Beatty and with Henry Clay, was admitted to the bar, and began practice in Bath, New York. Later, he removed to Angelica, New York.\n\nRochester was a member of the New York State Assembly (Allegany and Steuben Co.) in 1816-17 and 1818. Rochester was a presidential elector in 1820, voting for James Monroe and Daniel D. Tompkins.\n\nRochester was elected as a Democratic-Republican to the 17th, and re-elected as a Crawford Democratic-Republican to the 18th United States Congress, holding office from December 3, 1821 until 1823. He was appointed as Judge of the Eight Circuit Court on April 21, 1823 and resigned from the House of Representatives. He resigned from the bench to run on the Bucktails ticket for Governor of New York in 1826, but was narrowly defeated by DeWitt Clinton.\n\nHe was Secretary to the Special Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Colombia in 1826, and Chargé d'affaires to Central America in 1827-28. He was appointed Chargé d'Affaires of Guatemala on March 3, 1827 and was commissioned to the Republic of Central America. He reached Central America, but returned to the United States without presenting credentials.\n\nIn 1828, he was appointed by Nicholas Biddle as President of the branch of the Second Bank of the United States at Buffalo, New York, remaining there until 1836. He later served as President of the Bank of Pensacola, Florida and a director of the Alabama and Florida Railroad.\n\nIn 1812, he married his first wife Harriet Irwin (d. 1815), and their son was:\n\n\nOn January 31, 1816, he married his second wife Amanda Hopkins (1799–1831), and their children were:\n\n\n\nOn April 9, 1832, he married his third wife Eliza (née Hatch) Powers (1800–1885), a half-sister of Gov. Enos T. Throop and the widow of U.S. Rep. Gershom Powers. Together, William and Eliza were the parents of:\n\n\nRochester died in the wreck of the steamer \"Pulaski\" off the coast of North Carolina on June 14, 1838.\n\n"}
