{"id": "4995567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4995567", "title": "ACMECS", "text": "ACMECS\n\nAyeyawady-Chao Phraya-Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy (ACMECS) is a political, economic, and cultural organization among Thailand, Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia and Myanmar.\nAt the special ASEAN Summit on SARS, held in Bangkok on 29 April 2003, Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra raised the idea of establishing what was then called the “Economic Cooperation Strategy\", with leaders of Cambodia, Lao PDR and Myanmar.\n\nThe objectives of this new initiative are to bridge the economic gap among these five countries and to promote prosperity in the sub-region in a sustainable manner. Such prosperity, it is expected, will not only benefit the four countries, but also add value to ASEAN and its solidarity. It is hoped that a stronger Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Thailand will also mean a stronger ASEAN. In this way the new cooperation framework is expected to act as a building block and move ASEAN forward at a more even pace, on the basis of self-reliance and shared prosperity.\n\nLeaders of Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar and Thailand met for the first time on 12 November 2003 in Bagan, the Union of Myanmar. At the Summit, the four Leaders adopted the Bagan Declaration, affirming their commitment to cooperate in five priority areas of cooperation, and endorsed the Economic Cooperation Strategy Plan of Action, under which 46 common projects and 224 bilateral projects were listed for implementation over the next ten years. The Leaders agreed to call this newly created economic cooperation framework the \"Ayeyawady-Chao Phraya-Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy\" or \"ACMECS\".\n\nThe joining of Vietnam with the group on 10 May 2004 has increased ACMECS to 5 member countries. The emphasis of ACMECS is on using self-help and partnership to achieve sustainable development, including poverty reduction, in line with the UN Millennium Development Goals.\n\nACMECS is intended to act as a catalyst to build upon existing regional cooperation programs and complement bilateral frameworks with a view to transforming the border areas of the five countries into zones of economic growth, social progress and prosperity, and to blending local, national and regional interests for common benefits, shared prosperity, enhanced solidarity, peace, stability and good neighborliness.\n\n"}
{"id": "2216485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2216485", "title": "A History of Knowledge", "text": "A History of Knowledge\n\nA History of Knowledge (1991, ) is a book on intellectual history, with emphasis on the western civilization, written by Charles Van Doren, a former editor of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". It is a history of human thought covering over 5000 years of philosophy, learning, and belief systems that surveys the key historical trends and breakthroughs connecting the globalizing human landscape of the 20th century all the way back to the scattered roots of human civilization in India, Egypt, Mesopotamia, China, Greece, and Rome .\n\nFor a sense of the tone, the first section is entitled \"The Wisdom of the Ancients\" and begins, \"By the time written history began, some fifty centuries ago, mankind had learned much more than our primitive ancestors knew.\"\n\nThe book's last chapter focuses on the potential developments of the 21st century. It also contains biographies of many notable historical figures.\n"}
{"id": "105232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105232", "title": "Académie française", "text": "Académie française\n\nThe Académie française () is the pre-eminent French council for matters pertaining to the French language. The Académie was officially established in 1635 by Cardinal Richelieu, the chief minister to King Louis XIII. Suppressed in 1793 during the French Revolution, it was restored as a division of the Institut de France in 1803 by Napoleon Bonaparte. It is the oldest of the five \"académies\" of the institute.\n\nThe Académie consists of forty members, known informally as \"les immortels\" (the immortals). New members are elected by the members of the Académie itself. Academicians hold office for life, but they may resign or be dismissed for misconduct. Philippe Pétain, named Marshal of France after the victory of Verdun of World War I, was elected to the Academy in 1931 and, after his governorship of Vichy France in World War II, was forced to resign his seat in 1945. The body has the task of acting as an official authority on the language; it is charged with publishing an official dictionary of the language. Its rulings, however, are only advisory, not binding on either the public or the government. \nThe Académie had its origins in an informal literary group deriving from the salons held at the Hôtel de Rambouillet during the late 1620s and early 1630s. The group began meeting at Valentin Conrart's house, seeking informality. There were then nine members. Cardinal Richelieu, the chief minister of France, made himself protector of the group, and in anticipation of the formal creation of the academy, new members were appointed in 1634. On 22 February 1635, at Richelieu's urging, King Louis XIII granted letters patent formally establishing the council; according to the letters patent registered at the Parlement de Paris on 10 July 1637, the Académie française was \"to labor with all the care and diligence possible, to give exact rules to our language, to render it capable of treating the arts and sciences\". The Académie française has remained responsible for the regulation of French grammar, spelling, and literature.\n\nRichelieu's model, the first academy devoted to eliminating the \"impurities\" of a language, was the Accademia della Crusca, founded in Florence in 1582, which formalized the already dominant position of the Tuscan dialect of Florence as the model for Italian; the Florentine academy had published its \"Vocabolario\" in 1612.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, the National Convention suppressed all royal academies, including the Académie française. In 1792, the election of new members to replace those who died was prohibited; in 1793, the academies were themselves abolished. They were all replaced in 1795 by a single body called the Institut de France, or Institute of France. Napoleon Bonaparte, as First Consul, decided to restore the former academies, but only as \"classes\" or divisions of the Institut de France. The second class of the Institut was responsible for the French language, and corresponded to the former Académie française. When King Louis XVIII came to the throne in 1816, each class regained the title of \"Académie\"; accordingly, the second class of the Institut became the Académie française. Since 1816, the existence of the Académie française has been uninterrupted.\n\nThe President of France is the \"protector\" or patron of the Académie. Cardinal Richelieu originally adopted this role; upon his death in 1642, Pierre Séguier, the Chancellor of France, succeeded him. King Louis XIV adopted the function when Séguier died in 1672; since then, the French head of state has always served as the Académie's protector. From 1672 to 1805, the official meetings of the Académie were in the Louvre; since 1805, the Académie française has met in the Collège des Quatre-Nations (known now as the Palais de l'Institut). The remaining academies of the Institut de France also meet in the Palais de l'Institut.\n\nThe Académie française has forty seats, each of which is assigned a separate number. Candidates make their applications for a specific seat, not to the Académie in general: if several seats are vacant, a candidate may apply separately for each. Since a newly elected member is required to eulogize his or her predecessor in the installation ceremony, it is not uncommon that potential candidates refuse to apply for particular seats because they dislike the predecessors.\n\nMembers are known as \"les Immortels\" (the Immortals) because of the motto, \"À l'immortalité\" (\"To Immortality\"), that is on the official seal of the charter granted by Cardinal Richelieu.\n\nOne of the \"Immortels\" is chosen by his or her colleagues to be the Académie's Perpetual Secretary. The Secretary is called \"Perpetual\" because the holder serves for life, although he or she may resign, and may thereafter be styled as Honorary Perpetual Secretary; indeed the three post-World War II Perpetual Secretaries resigned due to old age. The Perpetual Secretary acts as a chairperson and chief representative of the Académie. The two other officers, a Director and a Chancellor, are elected for three-month terms. The most senior member, by date of election, is the Dean of the Académie.\n\nNew members are elected by the Académie itself. (The original members were appointed.) When a seat becomes vacant, a person may apply to the Secretary if she or he wishes to become a candidate. Alternatively, existing members may nominate other candidates. A candidate is elected by a majority of votes from voting members. A quorum is twenty members. If no candidate receives an absolute majority, another election must be performed at a later date. The election is valid only if the protector of the Académie, the President of France, grants his approval. The President's approbation, however, is only a formality. (There was a controversy about the candidacy of Paul Morand, whom Charles de Gaulle opposed in 1958. Morand was finally elected ten years later, and he was received without the customary visit, at the time of investiture, to the Palace Élysée.)\n\nThe new member is then installed at a meeting of the Académie. The new member must deliver a speech to the Académie, which includes a eulogy for the member being replaced. This is followed by a speech made by one of the members. Eight days thereafter, a public reception is held, during which the new member makes a speech thanking his or her colleagues for their election. Once, a member (Georges de Porto-Riche) was not accorded a reception because the eulogy he made of his predecessor was not considered satisfactory, and he refused to rewrite it. Georges Clemenceau refused to be received because he feared that he might be received by his enemy, Raymond Poincaré.\n\nMembers remain in the Académie for life. However, the council may dismiss an academician for grave misconduct. The first dismissal occurred in 1638, when Auger de Moléon de Granier was expelled for theft. The most recent dismissals occurred at the end of World War II: Philippe Pétain, Abel Bonnard, Abel Hermant, and Charles Maurras were all excluded for their association with the Vichy regime. In total, twenty members have been expelled from the Académie.\n\nThere have been a total of 732 \"immortels\", of whom nine have been women (the first woman, Marguerite Yourcenar, was elected in 1980 – besides the nine elected women, 25 women were candidates, the first one in 1874). Individuals who are not citizens of France may be, and have been, elected. Moreover, although most academicians are writers, one need not be a member of the literary profession to become a member. The Académie has included numerous politicians, lawyers, scientists, historians, philosophers, and senior Roman Catholic clergymen. Five French heads of state have been members (Adolphe Thiers, Raymond Poincaré, Paul Deschanel, Philippe Pétain, and Valéry Giscard d'Estaing) and one foreign head of state (the poet Léopold Sédar Senghor of Senegal, who was also the first African elected, in 1983). Other famous members include Voltaire; Charles, baron de Montesquieu; Victor Hugo; Alexandre Dumas, fils; Émile Littré; Louis Pasteur; Louis de Broglie; and Henri Poincaré.\n\nMany notable French writers have not become members of the Académie française. During 1855, the writer Arsène Houssaye devised the expression \"forty-first seat\" for deserving individuals who were never elected to the Académie, either because their candidacies were rejected, because they were never candidates, or because they died before appropriate vacancies arose. Notable French authors who never became academicians include Jean-Jacques Rousseau, Jean-Paul Sartre, Joseph de Maistre, Honoré de Balzac, René Descartes, Denis Diderot, Romain Rolland, Charles Baudelaire, Gustave Flaubert, Molière, Marcel Proust, Jules Verne, Théophile Gautier, and Émile Zola.\n\nThe official uniform of a member is known as \"l'habit vert\", or green clothing. The \"habit vert\", worn at the Académie's formal ceremonies, was first adopted during Napoleon Bonaparte's reorganization of the Institut de France. It consists of a long black coat and black-feathered bicorne, both richly embroidered with green leafy motifs, together with black trousers or skirt. Further, members other than clergy receive a ceremonial sword (\"l'épée\").\n\nThe Académie is France's official authority on the usages, vocabulary, and grammar of the French language.\n\nThe Académie publishes a dictionary of the French language, known as the \"Dictionnaire de l'Académie française\", which is regarded as official in France. A special commission composed of several (but not all) of the members of the Académie compiles the work.\n\nThe Académie has published thirteen editions of the dictionary, of which three were preliminary, eight were complete, and two were supplements for specialised words. These are:\n\n\n\n\nThe Académie is continuing work on the ninth edition, of which the first volume (\"A\" to \"Enzyme\") appeared in 1992, \"Éocène\" to \"Mappemonde\" was published in 2000, and \"Maquereau\" to \"Quotité\" in 2011. In 1778, the Académie attempted to compile a \"historical dictionary\" of the French language; this idea, however, was later abandoned, the work never progressing past the letter \"A\".\n\nAs the use of English terms by media increased over the years, the Académie has tried to prevent the Anglicization of the French language. For example, the Académie has recommended to avoid loanwords from modern English (such as \"walkman\", \"computer\", \"software\" and \"e-mail\"), in favour of neologisms, i.e. newly coined French words derived from existing ones (', ', ', and ' respectively, the first three being at present well-established words of the French language).\n\nThe Academy, despite working on the modernization of the French orthography, has sometimes been criticized for allegedly behaving in an overly conservative manner.\nA recent controversy involved the officialization of feminine equivalents for the names of several professions. For instance, in 1997, Lionel Jospin's government began using the feminine noun \"\"la ministre\" to refer to a female minister, following the official practice of Canada, Belgium and Switzerland and a frequent, though until then unofficial, practice in France. The Académie, however, insisted in accordance with French grammar rules on the traditional use of the masculine noun, \"le ministre\"\", for a minister of either gender. Use of either form remains highly controversial.\n\nThe Académie française is responsible for awarding several different prizes in various fields (including literature, painting, poetry, theatre, cinema, history, and translation). Almost all of the prizes were created during the twentieth century, and only two prizes were awarded before 1780. In total, the Académie awards more than sixty prizes, most of them annually.\n\nThe most important prize is the Grand prix de la francophonie, which was instituted in 1986, and is funded by the governments of France, Canada, Monaco, and Morocco. Other important prizes include the \"grand prix de littérature\" (for a literary work), the \"grand prix du roman\" (for a novel), the \"grand prix de poésie\" (for poetry), the \"grand prix de philosophie\" (for a philosophical work), the \"grand prix du cinéma\" (for film), and the \"grand prix Gobert\" (for a work on French history).\n\nThe Académie française intervened in June 2008 in French parliamentary debate about regional languages (Alsatian, Basque, Breton, Catalan, Corsican, Occitan, and Francoprovençal), when it protested against constitutional protection for them.\n\nThe current members of the Académie française are:\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "52355486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52355486", "title": "Access level", "text": "Access level\n\nIn computer science and computer programming, access level denotes the set of permissions or restrictions provided to a data type. Reducing access level is an effective method for limiting failure modes, debugging time and overall system complexity. It restricts variable modification to only the methods defined within the interface to the class. Thus, it is incorporated into many fundamental software design patterns. In general, a given object cannot be created, read, updated or deleted by any function without having a sufficient access level.\n\nThe two most common access levels are \"public\" and \"private\", which denote, respectively; permission across the entire program scope, or permission only within the corresponding class. A third, \"protected\", extends permissions to all subclasses of the corresponding class. Access levels modifiers are commonly used in Java as well as C#, which further provides the \"internal\" level. In C++, the only difference between a struct and a class is the default access level, which is \"private\" for classes and \"public\" for structs.\n\nTo illustrate the benefit: consider a public variable which can be accessed from any part of a program. If an error occurs, the culprit could be within any portion of the program, including various sub-dependencies. In a large code base, this leads to thousands of potential sources. Alternatively, consider a private variable. Due to access restrictions, all modifications to its value must occur via functions defined within the class. Therefore, the error is structurally contained within the class. There is often only a single source file for each class, which means debugging only requires evaluation of a single file. With sufficient modularity and minimal access level, large code bases can avoid many challenges associated with complexity.\n\nRetrieved from Java Coffee Break Q&A \nHere, the imperative variable \"balance\" is defined as a \"private int\". This ensures other classes, methods and functions cannot accidentally overwrite the variable balance. Instead, they must access the interface for the class \"bank_balance\", whose methods ensure the balance cannot drop below 0.\n"}
{"id": "45370360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45370360", "title": "Al-Qaeda in Bosnia and Herzegovina", "text": "Al-Qaeda in Bosnia and Herzegovina\n\nAl-Qaeda in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the al-Qaeda branch based in Bosnia and Herzegovina, formed during the Bosnian War in 1992. During the Bosnian War, the group contributed volunteers to the Bosnian mujahideen (called \"El Mudžahid\"), a volunteer detachment of the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The group operated through the Saudi High Commission for Relief of Bosnia and Herzegovina (SHC), and after the war carried out the Mostar car bombing in 1997. The operations in Bosnia occurred following the Soviet–Afghan War.\n\nDuring the Bosnian War, al-Qaeda contributed to the radicalisation of European Muslims. Al-Qaeda's operations in Bosnia were led by Ayman al-Zawahiri in 1993. Al-Qaeda-leader Osama bin Laden, is thought to have visited camps in the country between 1994 and 1996. Volunteer mujahideen arrived from all around the world, including France, Indonesia, Iraq, Malaysia, Morocco, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Thailand, the United Kingdom, the United States and Yemen.\n\nDuring the Bosnian War, a British worker Paul Goodall was killed in Bosnia and Herzegovina with several bullets to the head. An employer of the SHC, Abdul Hadi al-Gatani was arrested for murder, after which he admitted that the gun he used in the killing was his. Two Yemenis, namely Abu Ends and Abu Hulud, were also arrested. Both the Bosnian and Saudi governments didn't have any interest in investigating his and SHC's activities. The SDA dissuaded the Bosnian law enforcement from further investigation of SHC. However, Bosnian authorities released him along with the two Yemenis after the El Mujahid Detachment promised that they would be present for hearing on a later date. The three later fled the country. Al-Gatani was later killed fighting along with al-Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan.\n\nAfter the war, al-Qaeda reestablished its connections in Bosnia and Herzegovina through the SHC charity organization. The organization was closely tied and financed by the Saudi government, for which reason an American judge declared it immune after the September 11 attacks in 2001, concluding that it's a body of the Saudi government. In 2002, the Ministry of Finance of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina conducted a raid in offices of the SHC and found documents that led them to believe that the SHC was \"a front of radicals and terrorist related activities\". The same year, an employer of the USAID William Jefferson was killed. One of the suspects was Ahmed Zuhair Handala, linked to the SHC.\n\nIn 1996, the National Security Agency (NSA) found out through wiretapping devices that prince Salman financed Islamist militants through charity organizations. A report of the CIA from the same year said that \"the CIA has evidence that even high officials of charity organizations and supervisory boards in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Pakistan, such those of the Saudi High Commission, are participating in illicit activities, including support of terrorists.\"\n\nRonald Jacquard claims that majority of the SHC officials supported Osama bin Laden. Even though it participated in legitimate charity, the SHC used its charity character for sending illegal merchandise, drugs and weapons in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In May 1997, a French military report wrote that \"the Saudi High Commission, under cover of the humanitarian aid, is helping a development of permanent islamisation of Bosnia and Herzegovina influencing the country's youth. A successful end of this plan would give Islamic fundamentalism a perfect position in Europe and gave cover to members of the Bin Laden's organization\".\n\nA terrorist attack occurred in Mostar in 1997, executed by Handala and his two associates, also linked to the SHC. They managed to escape, but Handala was arrested after the September 11 attacks and detained in the Guantanamo Bay detention camp.\n\nIn late 2001, a raid was carried out by United States Special Forces on local SHC headquarters in Ilidža, a suburb of Sarajevo. In the raid documents, including manuals on how to forge the United States Secretary of State office ID cards, as well as manuscripts and notes on meetings with Bin Laden were found. Other al-Qaeda fronts such as Vazir (successor of al-Haramain Foundation) and the Global Relief Fund were also shut down.\n\nA Bosnian raid on al-Haramain Foundation, an organisation reportedly tied to al-Gama'at Islamiya which worked closely with al-Qaeda, uncovered tapes calling for attacks on peacekeepers in Bosnia. The Bosnian police also raided the offices of Benevolence International Foundation (BIF), finding weapons, military manuals, a fake passport and photos of Bin Laden. The evidence uncovered by Bosnian authorities on BIF's office on March 19, 2002, led to the arrests of Munib Zahiragic, the head of its Bosnian chapter, and Enaam Arnaout.\n\nIn October 2001, Bosnian-Herzegovinan police officers arrested several Bosnian citizens of Algerian origin on charges of plotting to fly small aircraft from Visoko and crash them into SFOR bases in Tuzla and Bratunac.\n\nThe United States Embassy and that of United Kingdom in Sarajevo were closed down in October 2001 under threat of terrorist attacks. The Supreme Court of BiH issued arrest warrants against those suspected of planning bomb attacks on the embassies. Five suspects of North African origins, were arrested including four Algerians with Bosnian citizenship. One of them, Bensayah Belkacem, was identified as a high-ranking Al-Qaeda figure with personal connections to Bin Laden. He was also on the payroll of the Saudi-financed Islamic Balkan Center in Zenica. The men were later handed over to SFOR and transferred to Guantanamo Bay.\n\nOn 24 December 2002, Muamer Topalović killed a married couple and their daughter and also wounded their son in village of Kostajnica. He claimed that he killed them because of ideological and religious reasons. He was sentenced to 35 years in prison.\n\nIn 2005, the plot to bomb the funeral of Pope John Paul II was discovered in Croatia. The plot originated from Gornja Maoča, a Wahhabist village in northern Bosnia, and included smuggling rocket launchers, explosives and detonators to Italy. The same year, Bosnian-Herzegovina police raided an apartment connected to a group seeking to blow up the British Embassy in Sarajevo, seizing explosives, rifles, other arms, and a video pledging vengeance for jihadists killed in Afghanistan and Iraq. Amongst the arrested was a Swedish citizen of Bosnian Muslim origin, who ran a website on behalf of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, head of al-Qaeda in Iraq.\n\nThe next year, in 2006, a group of Bosnians and Macedonians linked to al-Qaida was arrested in northern Italy, after smuggling 1,800 guns in that country from Istanbul.\n\nIn 2007, Swedish citizen Mirsad Bektašević (8 years and 4 months), Danish Turk Abdulkadir Cesur (6 and half years) and Bajro Ikanović (4 years) were convicted on charges for terrorism. Bektašević and Cesur traveled to Bosnia in 2005 with intention to commit terrorist attack on unidentified target in Bosnia or elsewhere in Europe. During investigation police seized guns, 20 kilograms of explosives, suicide vests, extremist documents, videos and testament.\n\nIn March 2008, in an operation conducted in Sarajevo and Bugojno police arrested Rijad Rustempašić, Abdulah Handžić and Edin Velić. They were accused for preparing terrorist attacks on facilities of Government of Republika Srpska, Roman Catholic Church, EUFOR and Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Rustempašić was declared guilty and was sentenced on 4 and half years, while Velić and Handžić were sentenced on 3 years and 4 months.\n\nOn 9 October 2008, security guard died in an explosion in shopping center in Vitez. Several persons were wounded. Amir Ibrahimi, who admitted he was guilty, was sentenced on 2 years in jail. He testified against Suvad Đidić, who was sentenced on 9 years in jail.\n\nOn 27 June 2010, Haris Čaušević bombed a police station in Bugojno and tried to escape. One policeman died in an attack and 6 were wounded. Haris Čaušević was a supporter of al-Qaeda. He attacked Sulejman Tihić in mosque in Bugojno for \"sending army in Iraq to die for American interests\" and left the mosque shouting \"long live al-Qaeda\". Čaušević was sentenced on 45 years and Adnan Haračić got 14 years in jail. Accused Naser Palislamović was acquitted of all charges.\n\nIn April 2011, Zijad Dervišević was sentenced on 8, Amel Sefer on 7 and Saša Bonić on 6 years in jail for detonating an explosive device in April 2010 under an automobile in which were, at the moment, Pero Mamić and Ivo Tadić, MPs of HDZ BiH in Assembly of Zenica-Doboj Canton. No one was injured.\n\nOn 28 October 2011, Salafi Mevlid Jašarević attacked U.S. embassy in Sarajevo. Police wounded and then arrested the attacker. No one died in an attack, although one person was wounded. He was sentenced on 17 years in jail. In retrial he was sentenced to 15 years.\n\nOn 27 April 2015, Nerdin Ibrić attacked a police station in Zvornik, killing one police officer in front of the station. He then went inside the station and wounded two more police officers before he was killed.\n\nOn 18 November 2015, Salafi Enes Omeragić walked into a betting shop in Sarajevo and killed two soldiers, before exiting and firing on a bus, injuring the driver and two passengers. After a manhunt, police cornered the attacker in the building where he resided early on November 19. He committed suicide by detonating two explosives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142522", "title": "Allectus", "text": "Allectus\n\nAllectus (died 296) was a Roman-Britannic usurper-emperor in Britain and northern Gaul from 293 to 296.\n\nAllectus was treasurer to Carausius, a Menapian officer in the Roman navy who had seized power in Britain and northern Gaul in 286. In 293 Carausius was isolated when the western Caesar, Constantius Chlorus, retook some of his Gallic territories, particularly the crucial port of Bononia (modern Boulogne), and defeated his Frankish allies in Batavia. Allectus assassinated Carausius and assumed command himself.\n\nHis reign has left little record, although his coin issues display a similar distribution to those of Carausius. They are found in north western Gaul, indicating that the recapture of Bononia did not spell the end of the rebel empire on that side of the English Channel.\n\nConstantius launched an invasion to depose him in September 296. His forces sailed in several divisions. Constantius led one division from Bononia, but seems to have been delayed by bad weather. Another division, under the praetorian prefect Asclepiodotus, took advantage of fog to avoid Allectus's ships stationed at the Isle of Wight, and landed near Southampton Water, where they burnt their ships. Allectus's forces were forced to retreat from the coast, but were cut off by another of Constantius's divisions and defeated. Allectus himself was killed in the battle, having removed all insignia in the hope that his body would not be identified. Archaeology suggests that Calleva Atrebatum (Silchester) was the site of his defeat or the area surrounding the town. A group of Roman troops, who had been separated from the main body by the fog during the channel crossing, caught up with the remnants of Allectus's men, mostly Franks, at Londinium (London), and massacred them. Constantius himself, it seems, did not reach Britain until it was all over, and his panegyrist claims he was welcomed by the Britons as a liberator.\n\nCarausius had deliberately used his coinage for propaganda purposes, and some of his slogans, such as a claim to have restored 'liberty', were designed to appeal to British sentiment. Constantius answered such claims in a famous medal struck on the morrow of his victory, in which he described himself as \"redditor lucis aeternae\", 'restorer of the eternal light (viz. of Rome).'\n\nGeoffrey of Monmouth included Allectus in his legendary \"History of the Kings of Britain\" (ca. 1136). Here, Allectus is an officer sent with three legions by the Romans to depose Carausius, a native British king. He does so, but his rule proves oppressive, and he is in turn deposed by Asclepiodotus, here the duke of Cornwall. The last of Allectus's troops are besieged in London, and surrender on the condition they are granted safe passage out of Britain. Asclepiodotus agrees, but the surrendering soldiers are massacred, and their heads thrown into the river Galobroc, by his allies the Venedoti.\n"}
{"id": "52101053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52101053", "title": "Anubhav Plantations", "text": "Anubhav Plantations\n\nAnubhav Plantations was an Indian Chennai-based plantation company founded in 1992. It sold shares in teak plantations on guaranteed interests and later diversified to other schemes through four principal companies: Anubhav Agrotech, Anubhav Green Farms & Resorts, Anubhav Plantations, and Anubhav Royal Orchards Exports.\n\nThe company suddenly closed down in 1998 when it could no longer pay its depositors, leaving its thousands of investors in the lurch and unpaid. Its chairman, C. Natesan, went underground and the other directors claimed ignorance and innocence. The incident became a major financial scandal in India. The company was subsequently revealed to have been a scam based on fraud, as teak, being an agriculture-based commodity, could not promise sure returns. Anubhav was found to have defrauded its depositors of nearly through Ponzi schemes. The Anubhav case is often termed by the Indian media as \"The Great Plantation Scam of the 1990s\".\n\nThe Anubhav group of companies was founded by C. Natesan, a commerce graduate from Chennai's Vivekananda College and a chartered accountancy course dropout. Natesan started his career in 1983 by launching a consultancy firm called Yours Faithfully Consultancy. In 1984, he started a construction company with three partners. Three years later, in 1987, he closed this venture and set up the Anubhav Foundation, which became the mother company of his future enterprises.\n\nIn 1991, as part of its post-liberisation process, the Indian government allowed firms within India to be formed as financial entities. Investment in agricultural commodities, which previously had only been permitted to the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), was opened up to the private sector. In this environment, Anubhav Plantations Ltd. (Anubhav) was floated by Natesan as a listed public limited company in 1992. Over the next six years, the Anubhav umbrella expanded to include various other companies including Anubhav Homes Ltd., Anubhav Resorts Ltd., Anubhav Finance & Investments, Anubhav Communications & Advertising (Pvt.) Ltd., Anubhav Royal Orchards & Exports, Anubhav Hire Purchase Ltd., Anubhav Green Farms & Resorts (Pvt.) Ltd., Anubhav Agro, Anubhav Security Bureau, Anubhav Interiors and Anubhav Health Club. Under these companies, the Anubhav group owned and operated 254 finance firms, including 95 firms of Anubhav finance investments, 169 firms of Anubhav dhan varsha and one firm each of Anubhav Agro and housing developers. Furthermore, the plantation companies themselves had several companies under them. For example, Anubhav plantation had six companies operating under it, including Anubhav Good Earth Unit II, Anubhav Teak Deposit and Anubhav India Limited.\n\nBy 1998, Anubhav group was worth , and, apart from its teak-plantation schemes, was involved in other enterprises including finance, real estate and timeshare – a popular enterprise in the recently liberalized Indian economy of the 1990s. These companies were well-structured and backed by a nationwide infrastructure of 91 offices and over 1,800 employees. This included a young, aggressive and highly effective sales force.\n\nAnubhav investors were offered teak certificates and/or teak shares for investing anything upwards of . These investments were marketed under different confusing and complicated schemes that started to give returns each year of ₹1000 and bumper returns after 20 years to the tune of . While NABARD stated that only ₹20–30 was actually required to plant a teak tree, plantation firms such as Anubhav justified their charging nearly ten times this amount by including costs for security de-weeding and fertilisers. Further, Anubhav inflated the expected yield of timber by nearly twenty times the standard that had been generally observed by previous NABARD studies. In return, a teak plant would be planted on their behalf, which could be sold 20 years later. During these 20 years, the certificate would yield around 20% interest for the depositor, yielding returns of around ₹50,000 after 20 years. This was nearly triple the return offered by bank deposits. The company claimed that it owned teak plantations spread over of land, and floated attractive advertisements and plush offices, thus encouraging confidence among investors.\n\nAnubhav was not the first group to do this. The first attempt to promote private investment in teak plantations occurred in 1991, when a Hyderabad-based company, Sanghi Plantations, introduced a scheme offering investors teak trees at a nominal cost of ₹1,261 with what later turned out to be an unrealistic return of ₹50,000 after 20 years. Teak plantations typically take 50–60 years before yielding returns and are extremely susceptible to weather and the subtleties of the agricultural industry. They have rarely given dependable returns in India. However, in the light of general ignorance on the part of most laypeople, Anubhav entered this foray of marketing lucrative teak plantation schemes along with companies such as the Parasrampuria group, DSJ group and the Cochin-based \"Sterling Tree Magnum\", all of whom promised similarly large yet unrealistic returns. During the early 1990s, teak plantations mushroomed in southern India, with 40 such companies registered in Madras and eight in Bangalore from January to September 1992. Most of these companies did not have adequate crop insurance and none of them were able to live up to their promises. All of them had skewed capital structures. After the 1998 scam and subsequent investigations, CRISIL subsequently reported that on average, these teak plantation companies had a promoter's contribution of just for every investor's share of ₹300 crore.\n\nMeanwhile, in interviews and announcements in news papers, Natesan unveiled future plans to forward-integrate from teak into furniture and to import machinery to make it. This led to a further increase in small investors. However, his growth strategy was focused mainly on mobilizing funds from investors rather than actually investing in plantations, plants, land and factories. The group had already raised vast sums of money to the tune of more than 400 crore rupees from the public in the form of fixed deposits, so-called \"teak units\", and a combination of fixed deposits and teak units. Natesan was extremely secretive about the financial performance of his group and this was never revealed to investors, who were happy as long as they received regular interest payments. Subsequent examinations of the company's accounts revealed that it was posting far higher incomes than its real profits. For example, in 1996–97, the company posted a net profit of ₹38.69 lakh (₹3,869,000) while its plantation income amounted to ₹35.32 crore (₹353,200,000). A total of nearly 3,500 teak plantation-based companies were set up in the 1990s in India, all promising interests to the tune of 21–24% when bank deposits gave an interest of just 5–7%.\n\nDuring its height in the mid-1990s, the Anubhav group was often described by the media as an example of a successful company (thus becoming a role model for about 530 other teak- and agro-based companies listed by SEBI that arose during that time and also subsequently defaulted, including Ballarshah teak plantations). The media also portrayed a larger-than-life image of Natesan himself. An ambitious man, Natesan's ostentatious lifestyle, his cars, and his plush office in Chennai's up-market Royapettah area were frequently cited by the media as examples of his lavish tastes. Natesan had also associated his company with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), thus garnering a positive image for his company.\n\nIn January 1998, cheques issued by Anubhav to its investors began to bounce. Some investors reported that other than the first two payments, all the cheques had bounced. Most of these investors were middle class and retired Indian working-class people who had invested their savings in Anubhav. Their amounts varied between ₹15,000 and ₹50,000 per person. They included Indians from large commercial centers such as Mumbai as well as smaller cities and towns such as Pune, Shimla, Trichy and Sangli. In 1998, the company started to default on payments to its investors. On 2 December 1998, a letter was sent to all the investors of Anubhav group to come to the Woodlands hotel in Chennai to receive their long-due payments. When some of the investors landed at Anubhav's offices in Royapettah, they were met with locked doors. The company had closed down, with Natesan absconding.\n\nSome of these small investors were themselves on the brink of bankruptcy, having invested their life savings in the Anubhav group and its schemes. The letter that they had received had actually been sent by an advocate from a law firm that was following up the Anubhav group in response to court cases that had been filed against it. The letter invited them to come and check all the records and the balance sheet of the company. The event was covered by newspapers who reported that \"...investors could be seen everywhere - sitting on the pavements, standing around the building, walking up and down the roads - all of them tense and worried.\"\n\nMany depositors who went to the group's offices in Chennai and other cities to collect their deposit amount after maturity found the doors locked and lodged complaints with the police. Later, thousands of investors demonstrated in front of the company's headquarters in Chennai, however, by then, the main accused, Natesan, had already gone underground.\n\nAnubhav was eventually found to have duped investors and depositors of over ₹400 crore. As details about what became known as the \"Great Plantation Scam of the 1990s\" began to be unveiled in the media, and it turned out to be a Ponzi scheme, Natesan's modus operandi shocked those who had held the Anubhav group in high regard.\n\nA government enquiry was subsequently launched into the Anubhav group. Its investigations revealed that the company had defrauded its investors through various plantation schemes, paying initial interests to old investors by simply channeling them from new investments by new investors. A liquidator, M. Ravindran, was appointed by the Madras High Court to try and repay its depositors at least in part. A number of investors formed their own city-based support and action groups to send in their claims, once such group being \"The Pune Anubhav Investors' Action Committee (PAIAC)\", formed by the 750-odd depositors of Pune who had collectively deposited ₹6 crore.\n\nNatesan, the chairman and managing director of the Anubhav Group of Companies was subsequently caught by the police and placed in judicial custody, while the filing of the final chargesheet in his criminal case (No. 20501 of 1999) was delayed. The Madras High Court meanwhile issued a non-bailable warrant against S. Shreenivas Rao, one of the directors of the Anubhav Group of Companies. Rao had earlier moved court, requesting that the non-bailable warrant issued by additional chief metropolitan magistrate in Chennai be recalled, as he was director of Anubhav Agrotech and had nothing to do with Anubhav Plantations Ltd. In its proceedings, the High Court observed that Anubhav Agrotech Ltd. was one among the Anubhav Group, which, in January 1999, became Anubhav Agro Developers. The court observed that there was proof that Anubhav plantation funds were diverted.\n\nThe Anubhav teak plantation scam (often simply referred to as \"The Teak Plantations Scam of the 1990s\") is often included in the list of scams that occurred in post-liberalized India in the 1990s and has been called \"The Great Plantation Scam of the 1990s\". However, plantation-related frauds continue to occur in the country, with unsuspecting people lured by promises of high interests. A more recent case, that of Timber World Resorts and Plantations Ltd., which had been launched by a catering college graduate Ashwani Sud from Delhi, turned out to be a similar scam in 2009. Similarly, in 2012, hundreds of Gujaratis lost their money in a similar tree-plantation scam floated by the Ellisbridge (Ahmedabad)-based company \"Golden Trees Plantation Ltd.\"\n\nWhile the first to be unearthed, the Anubhav scam was not the largest agro-based scam in India. As per the SEBI, in the subsequent Pearls Agrotech scam, Pearls Agrotech Corporation Limited (PACL) collected from 5.85 crore (58,500,000) customers over 15 years by offering ambiguous investments linked to agricultural land and its development over a certain period of time.\n\nAfter seven years of judicial custody, Natesan was released on bail in 2007. Of the invested by small investors, the company ultimately refunded to 31,431 depositors. About has still not been refunded to 2,044 depositors.\n"}
{"id": "5841668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5841668", "title": "Buyer brokerage", "text": "Buyer brokerage\n\nA buyer brokerage or buyer agency is the practice of real estate brokers and their agents representing a buyer in a real estate transaction rather than, by default, representing the seller either directly or as a sub-agent. In the United Kingdom and Australia, the most common term is buying agent.\n\nIn most U.S. states and Canadian provinces, until the 1990s, buyers who worked with an agent of a real estate broker in finding a house were customers of the brokerage, since, by most common law of most states at the time, the broker represented only sellers. It is only since the early 1990s that states passed statute law to create buyers' agency.\n\nBuyer agency can exist exclusively (where a brokerage firm chooses to only represent buyers and never sellers, as an exclusive buyer agent) or, in a full-service company, by offering buyer agency to buyers who become clients. Buyers would have to agree to some form of dual agency in the event that they wished to buy a home which that company has listed for sale and for which it represents the seller.\n\nToday, if the buyer is working with a broker other than the brokerage listing the property, he or she may choose to enter into a buyer-brokerage agreement to be represented. In some cases where dual agency is permitted by law, even the listing broker may represent the buyer. If the buyer does not enter into this agreement, he/she remains a customer of the broker who is then the sub-agent of seller's broker.\n\nWith the increase in the practice of buyer agency in North America, especially since the late 1990s in most areas, agents (acting under their brokers) have been able to represent buyers in the transaction with a written \"buyer agency agreement\" not unlike the \"listing agreement\" between brokers and sellers (often referred to as a sellers agency). The real estate licensee, upon entering into a written agreement with a buyer, agrees to work solely for the buyer and in return, the buyer agrees to exclusive representation.\n\nAt this point, a real estate brokerage owes the buyer the duties on\n\nThe broker negotiates price and terms on behalf of the buyers and prepares standard real estate purchase contract by filling in the blanks in the contract form. The buyer's agent acts as a fiduciary for the buyer.\n\nLike the listing agreement with sellers, the agreements with buyers must have a starting and ending date as well as specifying how the buyer's broker is to be paid (by the seller or by the buyer himself). In addition, it should spell out the duties and obligations of all parties.\n\nThe agreement should also specify how a conflict of interest will be handled. A conflict of interest can occur when a buyer represented by a conventional firm becomes interested by a seller who is also represented by that firm.\n\nAnother potential conflict of interest can occur when the same firm finds itself representing two buyers who are competing for the same property.\n\nA real estate agency should have a written, objective policy for how it will handle conflicts of interest and this policy should be disclosed to any potential client in advance.\n\n"}
{"id": "7223072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7223072", "title": "Cultural leveling", "text": "Cultural leveling\n\nCultural leveling is the process by which different cultures approach each other as a result of travel and communication. It can also refer to \"the process by which Western culture is being exported and diffused into other nations”. Cultural leveling within the United States has been driven by mass market media such as radio and television broadcasting and nationwide distribution of magazines and catalogs. Some of these means and effects are considered artifacts of the Machine Age of the 1920s and 1930s. Today the interactions between countries worldwide have allowed the opportunity for intercultural dialogue. Countries world wide have undergone a form of cultural leveling. Some countries being more open to it than others. Japan, for example, has assimilated Western styles of dress and music into a blend or Western and Eastern Cultures. Today, due to the crossing or travel and communication with time and space there is just about no “other side of the world” anymore, giving us the inevitable result of what is known as cultural leveling. Eclecticism and cultural leveling both share a similar ideology in the separation of culture from human nature creating the potential risk or enslavement and manipulation. Cultural leveling is notably present in minorities instead of large cultures driven to aspire wealth and there is more commonality present in minorities. At times countercultures and subcultures may pose as a resistance to cultural change within society. Local cultures did diffuse across each other in earlier times as material items hence influencing a change in the cultural atmosphere. These diffusions have been part of most significant cultural changes in recorded history. To convey how fundamental the loss of diversity and the subsequent leveling have been, many sociologists such as Daniel Lerner amplified the opinion through the phrase “the passing of traditional society.”\n\nBaku (2009), asserted that Relativism enables diverse cultures to coexist. Meanwhile, cultural leveling eliminates the cultural differences that make a person unique. Further more there has seen to be a “commercialization of cultural exchange: that of cultural eclecticism and that of cultural leveling.” Cultural leveling results in the standardization of behaviors and lifestyles which sets out to create the danger for losing the significance of cultures and traditions of different countries. Danger lies within cultural leveling such that indiscriminate acceptance of types of conduct and lifestyles. In this way one loses sight of the profound significance of the different nations, of the traditions of the various people, by which the individuals define himself in relation to life’s fundamental questions.\n\nIt is evident that today that both local and global personal interconnectedness is becoming increasingly opaque.\n\nThe golden years of the Der Querschnitt ranged from 1924 to 1929 when it was edited and achieved the cosmopolitism of its contributions by Hermann von Wedderkop. The journal of the Der Querschnitt contained comparisons of cultures, places and religions followed by the pace in which cultural leveling was progressing within a global perspective. The Der Querschnitt makes the concept of cultural leveling quite easy to identify. The Querschnitt is not only a European journal, but a cosmopolitan one as well as it represents contemporary trends both older and newer. By the end of the twenties, people at both ends of the social scale danced to the same rhythms and listened to the same hit songs as high culture was replaced with a popular new version of the high art of reality, the music of mass entertainment, jazz, and the cinema. These new trendy concepts claimed that boxing and jazz were the only interesting art forms of the modern age and \"negro music\" set the standards for what was new and stimulating. These different changes were seen to be successful mainly because modernity in cities and regions and the interchangeable aspects of modern life fascinated individuals and provided them with a brand new way of life.\n\nIn the twenties, cities in the Balkans were undergoing overwhelming changes. As a Japanese journalist reports, most of the hairstyles we know today were adopted from the styles and fashion from Tokyo. The hairstyle we commonly know today as the \"bob\", which is now a major Hollywood style, used to be known as the new Geisha hair cut originating in Tokyo. The entire region between Budapest and Istanbul displayed the same lifestyle: \"jazz bands, gramophones, Chaplin posters, international press, nudist magazines from Berlin, comics from Paris), taxis, symptoms of women’s emancipation in the Turkish- Levantine salons.\" Mass produced goods and multicultural unreality of everyday are two aspects of global cultural leveling displayed in the Balkans. With all the chaotic co-existence of cultural products in the Balkans, reports have stated that it however does not actually frighten the visitor and that people should deal with the chaos of transnational influences that they are suddenly exposed to in the course of time.\n\nReports from cities such as Prague and Budapest showed odd mannerism and resistance toward modernization during a period of transition, as old European traditions, legends and monuments are deeply rooted in Prague. Reports on Prague’s sense of national folklore and Budapest’s ambivalent modernity demonstrate how the world's old continent cities cope with cultural leveling. The German, along with foreign correspondents typically tend to share the \"New Sobriety’s\" fascination with cultural leveling, while America was consistently referred to as the \"cultural model of the future\". Mass culture and technological modernity are typically adopted by large major cities however old traditions place a strain on some cities when it comes to adapting to new trends. Capital cities tend to imitate each other during the spread of cultural modernity. For example, \"in European capital cities, London was in the shadow of Berlin’s progressive modernity, while prior to that Berlin was in the shadow of Paris.\"\n\nA great Jewish scholar Erich Auerbach wrote in his masterpiece Mimesis during the Second World War: “Beneath the conflicts, and also through them, an economic and cultural leveling process is taking place. It is still a long way to a common life of mankind on earth, but the goal begins to be visible.\" Still, half a century later one hesitates to describe the globalization that was taking place as an “economic leveling process.\" Meanwhile, Auerbach looked at cultural leveling with growing worry, however it was an unquestionable reality yet difficult to grasp. \"In an essay published in 1952, Auerbach remarked that Goethe’s concept of Weltliteratur had become increasingly inadequate, explaining the difficulty of a philologist from a single cultural tradition to be able to approach a world in which so many languages and so many cultural traditions interact.\" Erich Auerbach goes into depth about his belief that one must look for both starting points and concrete details from which the \"global process can be inductively reconstructed.\" In the conclusion to Auerbach's Mimesis, he stated \"The ongoing unification of the world is most concretely visible now in the unprejudiced, precise, interior and exterior representation of the random moment in the lives of different people.” It is the same kind of class struggle approach in the cultural field that they had taken in the economic field, assembling the shortcoming against the privileged. Cultural leveling efforts were forcefully resumed during the early age among many individuals.\n\nReligion has always been a main source of cultural change and disruption. Numerous theoretical strategies have been used to explain religion and its role in society. But, in this age of consequent cultural leveling, no theory of religion would be complete if it failed to include the impact of cultural change on religions and the individuals who follow them. Karl Marx, in the words of Brian Morris, believed that \"religion was, in a sense, a secondary phenomenon and depended on socioeconomic circumstances. It could only be overcome, therefore, when the circumstances that gave rise to religion were themselves transformed.\" According to A.R. Radcliffe-Brown, \"religion is a storehouse for the mores and ethics conducive to a well-functioning society and embodies truth and meaning, and the individual's role is merely one of assimilating the existing belief system.\"\n\nConsequently, through the development of cultural leveling it is evident that some of the negative impacts are the disappearance of dialect in the aspect where individuals who spoke different language gradually disappear as the society acknowledges one language. Other negative outcomes include: the reduction of cultural diversity where individuals lose the significance of being different, loss of cultural uniqueness, loss of cultural heritage, and struggle of accepting the results of cultural leveling. Some positive outcomes of cultural leveling include: uniformity, cooperation, and efficient work(common understanding across the board). Cultural leveling influences cultural aspects to unfold what challenges the present precepts of society.\n\nIt is evident that communist leaders pursued cultural leveling not only because they remained committed to the Marxist doctrine of eliminating class distinctions, but also because they deeply distrusted the old elites and were determined to prevent them from maintaining and reproducing their class advantage.\n"}
{"id": "40808316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40808316", "title": "Dawn – National Coalition", "text": "Dawn – National Coalition\n\nDawn – National Coalition (), short Dawn, (from June 2014 to August 2015) Dawn of Direct Democracy () or (from June 2013 to June 2014) Tomio Okamura's Dawn of Direct Democracy (), was a right-wing populist and Eurosceptic political party in the Czech Republic.\n\nThe party was founded in May 2013 by Tomio Okamura, an independent senator attached to the Christian Democratic parliamentary group. Tomio Okamura's Dawn of Direct Democracy supported the implementation of direct democracy at all levels \"as a solution to the corruption, nepotism, clientelism and kleptocracy,\" the use of referenda, the direct election of deputies, senators, mayors and regional governors, a presidential system and, consequently, a stronger separation of powers.\n\nFounding members of Dawn of Direct Democracy included members of Public Affairs, a former member of the Civic Democratic Party, and a representative of \"Moravané\".\n\nIn the parliamentary election of 2013 the party obtained 342,339 votes (6.88%), winning 14 seats. These included two deputies elected in the Central Bohemian Region, and one each in all others except the Plzen Region and Karlovy Vary Region.\n\nOn 19 January 2015, Chief Whip Radim Fiala was removed and replaced by .\n\nIn February 2015, most of the nine members of the party and the 14 members of the Dawn parliamentary group decided to establish a new party, without leader Tomio Okamura. On 26 February 2015, Okamura announced that the party was experiencing serious financial difficulties. Since their election to the parliament, the party had been receiving millions of Czech crowns from the state each year.\n\nSeveral members of Dawn have created new parties, including Freedom and Direct Democracy, led by Okamura, and the Party of National Interests led by Petr Adam.\nOn 7 July 2015, Dawn announced plans to merge with the Party of the National Interests, which they did in August the same year. Retired veteran Miroslav Lidinský was elected as party chairman and the name was changed to Dawn - National Coalition. They also began working with the We Don't Want Islam in the Czech Republic movement () led by Martin Konvička. However, this collaboration also failed soon after, and Dawn's popularity has continued to decline. According to opinion polling, Dawn was unlikely to exceed the threshold for entry into parliament at the 2017 legislative elections.\n\nDawn MP Martin Lank left the party in May 2017, which reduced the parliamentary group to six MPs, further reduced to five on 6 June 2017 with the departure of Jana Hnyková. On 7 June 2017, Marek Černoch also left Dawn.\n\nDawn did not participate in the 2017 legislative election. In July 2017, prominent party members stated their intention to participate in local elections in 2018. The party was dissolved in March 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1170226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170226", "title": "Department of Immigration and Border Protection", "text": "Department of Immigration and Border Protection\n\nThe Department of Immigration and Border Protection (DIBP) was a department of the Government of Australia that was responsible for immigration, citizenship and border control (including visa issuance). It has now been subsumed into the Department of Home Affairs, which combines its responsibilities with a number of other portfolios. \n\nThe final head of department was Secretary Michael Pezzullo, who reported to the Minister for Immigration and Border Protection, the Hon Peter Dutton and the Assistant Minister for Immigration and Border Protection, the Hon Alex Hawke MP.\n\nThe Department of Immigration and Border Protection was formed by way of an Administrative Arrangements Order issued on 18 September 2013 and replaced the majority of the functions previously performed by the former Department of Immigration and Citizenship; with the exception of most settlement and multicultural affairs programs that were assumed by the Department of Human Services. Additionally, the Australian Border Force and associated policy was assumed by the Department of Immigration and Border Protection (previously managed under the authority of the Attorney-General's portfolio, a move intended to ensure stronger integration of border protection resources.\n\nFollowing Federation in 1901, immigration to Australia was handled by the Department of External Affairs. In 1916 responsibility shifted to the newly created Department of Home and Territories. Migration was handled from 1928 until 1932 by a recreated Department of Home Affairs and from 1932 until 1945 by the Department of the Interior, except that between January 1925 and January 1928 Reginald Wilson and Thomas Paterson were Ministers for Markets and Migration.\n\nIn July 1945, the Department of Immigration was established as Australia launched a massive immigration program following World War II. The then Minister for Immigration, Arthur Calwell promoted mass immigration with the slogan \"populate or perish\". Since 1945, the department's names, functions and responsibilities have changed several times.\n\nThe present departmental title, Department of Home Affairs, refers to a combined department covering law enforcement, national and transport security, criminal justice, emergency management, multicultural affairs and immigration and border control. Departmental writing guide mandates the use of \"Home Affairs\" as a shortened form of the Department's name. DHA is exclusively used by Defence Housing Australia.\n\nOver the years, the department has been the centre of controversy in regards to the Australian Government's policies of mandatory detention of unauthorised arrivals, the Pacific Solution, and the treatment of asylum seekers that was criticised in the Palmer and Comrie reports in 2005.\n\nThe Rudd Labor government announced the end of mandatory detention in Australia in July 2008, unless the asylum seeker was deemed to pose a risk to the wider community, such as those who have repeatedly breached their visa conditions or those who have security or health risks.\n\nOn 1 July 2015, the Migration Review Tribunal, the Refugee Review Tribunal and the Social Security Appeals Tribunal became divisions of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.\n\nIn an Administrative Arrangements Order made on 18 September 2013, the functions of the department were broadly classified into the following matters:\n\n\nThe size and composition of Australia’s permanent migration program is reviewed annually to maximise its potential. The 2010–11 migration program was set at 168,700 places—an overall total which was unchanged from 2009–10. Within this total, the skill stream was allocated 113 850 places to address current and emerging skill shortages in critical occupations and regions. The family stream was set at 54 550 places, recognising the benefits that accrue when Australians have their parents, partners, carers or children join them to live in Australia permanently.\n\nOn 1 July 2010, a new skilled occupation list was introduced for the general skilled migration. A new points test emphasising the importance of English language proficiency, work experience and higher level qualifications was announced and implemented on 1 July 2011. In addition, state migration plans were implemented for each state and territory to provide greater flexibility for state and territory governments to nominate skilled migrants in a broader range of occupations specific to their skill shortage needs than are currently offered through the skilled occupation list.\n\nAccording to the 2014-15 migration program, 68 per cent are skilled migrants and 32 per cent are from family visa streams.\n\nAustralia is within the top three humanitarian resettlement countries in the world. Under the humanitarian program, the department granted 13,799 visas in 2010–11. Of these, 8971 were granted offshore and 4828 were granted onshore. The Woman at Risk target of 12 per cent of refugee grants (720 grants) was exceeded, with 759 visas granted.\n\nThe introduction of complementary protection legislation into parliament on 24 February 2011, was a development in relation to Australia's commitment to fulfilling its international obligations under the Refugee Convention. This was expected to improve the efficiency of decision-making by providing more accountable assessments of asylum seekers’ protection claims.\n\nThe department’s citizenship course provides an alternative pathway for taking the final step towards becoming an Australian citizen. In 2010–11, 27 citizenship courses were delivered across metropolitan and regional areas in Australia, and about 74,000 citizenship tests were administered globally during the year.\n\nOn 26 January 2011, Australia Day, approximately 13,000 people became Australian citizens in about 325 citizenship ceremonies hosted by local councils and community groups across the country. Brisbane City Council, despite the devastating floods, hosted the largest Australia Day 2011 citizenship ceremony with more than 1,000 people becoming citizens at the Brisbane Convention and Exhibition Centre.\n\nThere are more than 30 million movements across Australia’s borders every year. By 2020, indications are that these numbers are likely to increase to approximately 45 million movements per year.\n\nThe department collects biometrics to help verify the identity of visa applicants in any future visa encounters. From December 2010, biometrics began to be collected across 15 countries in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. This initiative was undertaken in collaboration with the predecessor of UK Visas and Immigration.\n\nA new immigration detention services group was established in 2011 to implement policy, manage contractors and coordinate detention operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "41686753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41686753", "title": "Difret", "text": "Difret\n\nDifret is a 2014 Ethiopian drama film written and directed by Zeresenay Berhane Mehari. The film had its premiere in-competition at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival where it won the World Cinematic Dramatic Audience Award. Angelina Jolie served as the executive producer of the film.\n\nThe film later premiered at the 64th Berlin International Film Festival in the Panorama section, where it won the Audience Award. It was selected as the Ethiopian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 87th Academy Awards, but was not nominated.\n\nThe title () literally translates as \"courage\", \"audacity\", but can also be a euphemism for \"the act of being raped.\"\n\nThe film chronicles a legal-precedent setting court case that outlawed the kidnapping of child brides (ጠለፈ \"tʼelefa\") in Ethiopia. It tells the story of a 14-year-old girl, Hirut Assefa (based on Aberash Bekele), who is kidnapped on her way home from school and subsequently grabs a rifle and tries to escape, but ends up shooting her would-be husband. In her village, the practice of abduction into marriage is common and one of Ethiopia's oldest traditions. Meaza Ashenafi, the founder of the Ethiopian Women Lawyers Association (EWLA), arrives from the city to have her team represent Hirut and argue that she acted in self-defence.\n\n\nThe film was temporarily banned in September 2014 for allegedly giving \"too much credit\" to Ashenafi, according to a complaint by Bekele, on whose experience the film was based. The case settled out of court and the ban was ultimately lifted. The film's director, Mehari, apologized to Bekele for \"any misperception and for any harm that [they] may have caused.\" The film subsequently enjoyed a successful theatrical run in Ethiopia and kicked off its educational outreach efforts that are focused on raising awareness about the issue of child marriage. Ashenafi's leadership and administration of EWLA during this time is the reason she has received several international human rights awards including the Africa Prize of The Hunger Project for her work defending vulnerable women and children in Ethiopia.\n\n\"Difret\" received mixed reviews upon its premiere at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival. Dennis Harvey of \"Variety\", said in his review that \"'Difret' presents an important message, albeit in rather clunky narrative terms. More showing and less telling would have made this fact-inspired drama by Zeresenay Berhane Mehari as artistically compelling as it is informative. Still, fests and other outlets attracted to social-justice issues will queue up for this relatively rare export-ready Ethiopian feature.\" Boyd van Hoeij in his review for \"The Hollywood Reporter\" called the film \"A quiet and powerful drama, based on a true story, that relies on familiar storytelling tropes.\" The film has a score of 58% on Metacritic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "924170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=924170", "title": "Elections in the United States", "text": "Elections in the United States\n\nElections in the United States are held for government officials at the federal, state, and local levels. At the federal level, the nation's head of state, the President, is elected indirectly by the people of each state, through an Electoral College. Today, these electors almost always vote with the popular vote of their state. All members of the federal legislature, the Congress, are directly elected by the people of each state. There are many elected offices at state level, each state having at least an elective Governor and legislature. There are also elected offices at the local level, in counties, cities, towns, townships, boroughs, and villages. According to a study by political scientist Jennifer Lawless, there were 519,682 elected officials in the United States .\n\nWhile the United States Constitution does set parameters for the election of federal officials, state law, not federal, regulates most aspects of elections in the U.S., including primaries, the eligibility of voters (beyond the basic constitutional definition), the running of each state's electoral college, as well as the running of state and local elections. All elections—federal, state, and local—are administered by the individual states.\n\nThe restriction and extension of voting rights to different groups has been a contested process throughout United States history. The federal government has also been involved in attempts to increase voter turnout, by measures such as the National Voter Registration Act of 1993. The financing of elections has also long been controversial, because private sources make up substantial amounts of campaign contributions, especially in federal elections. Voluntary public funding for candidates willing to accept spending limits was introduced in 1974 for presidential primaries and elections. The Federal Elections Commission, created in 1975 by an amendment to the Federal Election Campaign Act, has the responsibility to disclose campaign finance information, to enforce the provisions of the law such as the limits and prohibitions on contributions, and to oversee the public funding of U.S. presidential elections.\n\nThe most common method used in U.S. elections is the first-past-the-post system, where the highest polling candidate wins the election. Some may use a two-round system, where if no candidate receives a required number of votes then there is a runoff between the two candidates with the most votes.\n\nSince 2002, several cities have adopted instant-runoff voting in their elections. Voters rank the candidates in order of preference rather than voting for a single candidate. If a candidate secures more than half of votes cast, that candidate wins. Otherwise, the candidate with the fewest votes is eliminated. Ballots assigned to the eliminated candidate are recounted and assigned to those of the remaining candidates who rank next in order of preference on each ballot. This process continues until one candidate wins by obtaining more than half the votes. In 2016, Maine became the first state to adopt instant-runoff voting (known in the state as ranked-choice voting) statewide for its elections, although due to state constitutional provisions, the system is only used for federal elections and state primaries.\n\nThe eligibility of an individual for voting is set out in the constitution and also regulated at state level. The constitution states that suffrage cannot be denied on grounds of race or color, sex, or age for citizens eighteen years or older. Beyond these basic qualifications, it is the responsibility of state legislatures to regulate voter eligibility. Some states ban convicted criminals, especially felons, from voting for a fixed period of time or indefinitely. The number of American adults who are currently or permanently ineligible to vote due to felony convictions is estimated to be 5.3 million. Some states also have legacy constitutional statements barring legally declared incompetent from voting; such references are generally considered obsolete and are being considered for review or removal where they appear.\n\nWhile the federal government has jurisdiction over federal elections, most election laws are decided at the state level. All U.S. states except North Dakota require that citizens who wish to vote be registered. Traditionally, voters had to register at state offices to vote, but in the mid-1990s efforts were made by the federal government to make registering easier, in an attempt to increase turnout. The National Voter Registration Act of 1993 (the \"Motor Voter\" law) required state governments that receive certain types of federal funding to make the voter registration process easier by providing uniform registration services through drivers' license registration centers, disability centers, schools, libraries, and mail-in registration. Other states allow citizens same-day registration on Election Day.\n\nIn many states, citizens registering to vote may declare an affiliation with a political party. This declaration of affiliation does not cost money, and does not make the citizen a dues-paying member of a party. A party cannot prevent a voter from declaring his or her affiliation with them, but it can refuse requests for full membership. In some states, only voters affiliated with a party may vote in that party's primary elections (see below). Declaring a party affiliation is never required. Some states, including Georgia, Michigan, Minnesota, Virginia, Wisconsin, and Washington, practice non-partisan registration.\n\nVoters unable or unwilling to vote at polling stations on Election Day can vote via absentee ballots. Absentee ballots are most commonly sent and received via the United States Postal Service. Despite their name, absentee ballots are often requested and submitted in person. About half of all states and U.S. territories allow \"no excuse absentee,\" where no reason is required to request an absentee ballot. Others require a valid reason, such as infirmity or travel, be given before a voter can participate using an absentee ballot. Some states, including California, and Washington allow citizens to apply for permanent absentee voter status, which will automatically receive an absentee ballot for each election. Typically a voter must request an absentee ballot before the election occurs.\n\nA significant source of absentee ballots is the population of Americans living outside the United States. In 1986 Congress enacted the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act (UOCAVA). UOCAVA requires that the states and territories allow members of the United States Uniformed Services and merchant marine, their family members, and United States citizens residing outside the United States to register and vote absentee in elections for Federal offices. Though many states had pre-existing statutes in place UOCAVA made it mandatory and nationally uniform. \"Generally, all U.S. citizens 18 years or older who are or will be residing outside the United States during an election period are eligible to vote absentee in any election for Federal office. In addition, all members of the Uniformed Services, their family members and members of the Merchant Marine and their family members, who are U.S. citizens, may vote absentee in Federal, state and local elections.\" Absentee ballots from these voters can often be transmitted private delivery services, fax, or email.\n\nMail ballots are similar in many respects to an absentee ballot. However they are used for \"Mailing Precincts\" where on Election Day no polling place is opened for a specific precinct. In Oregon, Washington, and Colorado, all ballots are delivered through the mail.\n\nEarly voting is a formal process where voters can cast their ballots prior to the official Election Day. Early voting in person is allowed in 33 states and in Washington, D.C., with no excuse required.\n\nVoters casting their ballots in polling places record their votes most commonly with optical scan voting machines or DRE voting machines. Voting machine selection is typically done through a state's local election jurisdiction including counties, cities, and townships. Many of these local jurisdictions have changed their voting equipment since 2000 due to the passage of the Help America Vote Act (HAVA), which allocated funds for the replacement of lever machine and punch card voting equipment.\n\nSince the 1980s many jurisdictions and voting locations have given out \"I Voted\" stickers to people casting ballots. In the state of Illinois it is a state law to have stickers available to voters after they have cast their ballots. State and local governments pay $30 million per year for the stickers that cost about one cent each.\n\nThe United States has a presidential system of government, which means that the executive and legislature are elected separately. Article One of the United States Constitution requires that any election for the U.S. President must occur on a single day throughout the country; elections for Congressional offices, however, can be held at different times. Congressional and presidential elections take place simultaneously every four years, and the intervening Congressional elections, which take place every two years, are called Midterm elections.\n\nThe constitution states that members of the United States House of Representatives must be at least 25 years old, a citizen of the United States for at least seven years, and be a (legal) inhabitant of the state they represent. Senators must be at least 30 years old, a citizen of the United States for at least nine years, and be a (legal) inhabitant of the state they represent. The President and Vice President must be at least 35 years old, a natural born citizen of the United States and a resident in the United States for at least fourteen years. It is the responsibility of state legislatures to regulate the qualifications for a candidate appearing on a ballot paper, although in order to get onto the ballot, a candidate must often collect a legally defined number of signatures.\n\nThe President and the Vice President are elected together in a Presidential election. It is an indirect election, with the winner being determined by votes cast by electors of the Electoral College. In modern times, voters in each state select a slate of electors from a list of several slates designated by different parties or candidates, and the electors typically promise in advance to vote for the candidates of their party (whose names of the presidential candidates usually appear on the ballot rather than those of the individual electors). The winner of the election is the candidate with at least 270 Electoral College votes. It is possible for a candidate to win the electoral vote, and lose the (nationwide) popular vote (receive fewer votes nationwide than the second ranked candidate). Prior to ratification of the Twelfth Amendment to the United States Constitution (1804), the runner-up in a Presidential election became the Vice President.\n\nElectoral College votes are cast by individual states by a group of electors; each elector casts one electoral college vote. Until the Twenty-third Amendment to the United States Constitution of 1961 the District of Columbia citizens did not have representation and/or electors in the electoral college. In modern times, with electors usually committed to vote for a party candidate in advance, electors that vote against the popular vote in their state are called faithless electors, and occurrences are rare. State law regulates how states cast their electoral college votes. In all states except Maine and Nebraska, the candidate that wins the most votes in the state receives all its electoral college votes (a \"winner takes all\" system). From 1969 in Maine, and from 1991 in Nebraska, two electoral votes are awarded based on the winner of the statewide election, and the rest (two in Maine, three in Nebraska) go to the highest vote-winner in each of the state's congressional districts.\n\nCongress has two chambers: the Senate and the House of Representatives.\n\nThe Senate has 100 members, elected for a six-year term in dual-seat constituencies (2 from each state), with one-third being renewed every two years. The group of the Senate seats that is up for election during a given year is known as a \"class\"; the three classes are staggered so that only one of the three groups is renewed every two years. Until the Seventeenth Amendment to the United States Constitution in 1913, States chose how to elect Senators, and they were often elected by state legislatures, not the electorate of states.\n\nThe House of Representatives has 435 members, elected for a two-year term in single-seat constituencies. House of Representatives elections are held every two years on the first Tuesday after November 1 in even years. Special House elections can occur between if a member dies or resigns during a term. House elections are first-past-the-post elections that elect a Representative from each of 435 House districts which cover the United States. The non-voting delegates of Washington, D.C. and the territories of American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands are also elected.\n\nHouse elections occur every two years, correlated with presidential elections or halfway through a President's term. The House delegate of Puerto Rico, officially known as the Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico, is elected to a four-year term, coinciding with those of the President.\n\nAs the redistricting commissions of states are often partisan, districts are often drawn which benefit incumbents. An increasing trend has been for incumbents to have an overwhelming advantage in House elections, and since the 1994 election, an unusually low number of seats has changed hands in each election. Due to gerrymandering, fewer than 10% of all House seats are contested in each election cycle. Over 90% of House members are reelected every two years, due to lack of electoral competition. Gerrymandering of the House, combined with the divisions inherent in the design of the Senate and of the Electoral College, result in a discrepancy between the percentage of popular support for various political parties and the actual level of the parties' representation.\nState law and state constitutions, controlled by state legislatures regulate elections at state level and local level. Various officials at state level are elected. Since the separation of powers applies to states as well as the federal government, state legislatures and the executive (the governor) are elected separately. Governors and lieutenant governor are elected in all states, in some states on a joint ticket and in some states separately, some separately in different electoral cycles. The governors of the territories of American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands are also elected. In some states, executive positions such as Attorney General and Secretary of State are also elected offices. All members of state legislatures and territorial jurisdiction legislatures are elected. In some states, members of the state supreme court and other members of the state judiciary are elected. Proposals to amend the state constitution are also placed on the ballot in some states.\n\nAs a matter of convenience and cost saving, elections for many of these state and local offices are held at the same time as either the federal presidential or midterm elections. There are a handful of states, however, that instead hold their elections during odd-numbered \"off years.\"\nAt the local level, county and city government positions are usually filled by election, especially within the legislative branch. The extent to which offices in the executive or judicial branches are elected vary from county-to-county or city-to-city. Some examples of local elected positions include sheriffs at the county level and mayors and school board members at the city level. Like state elections, an election for a specific local office may be held at the same time as either the presidential, midterm, or off-year elections.\n\nIn the US elections are actually conducted by local authorities, working under local, state, and federal law and regulation, as well as the US Constitution. It is a highly decentralized system.\n\nIn around half of US states, the Secretary of State is the official in charge of elections; in other states it is someone appointed for the job, or a commission. It is this person or commission who is responsible for certifying, tabulating, and reporting votes for the state.\n\nAmericans vote for a specific candidate instead of directly selecting a particular political party. The United States Constitution has never formally addressed the issue of political parties. The Founding Fathers such as Alexander Hamilton and James Madison did not support domestic political factions at the time the Constitution was written. In addition, the first President of the United States, George Washington, was not a member of any political party at the time of his election or throughout his tenure as president. Furthermore, he hoped that political parties would not be formed, fearing conflict and stagnation. Nevertheless, the beginnings of the American two-party system emerged from his immediate circle of advisers, with Hamilton and Madison ending up being the core leaders in this emerging party system.\n\nThus, it is up to the candidate to decide under what party he/she should run, registers to run, pays the fees, etc. In the primary elections, the party organization stays neutral until one candidate has been elected. The platform of the party is written by the winning candidate (in presidential elections; in other elections no platform is involved). Each candidate has his or her own campaign, fund raising organization, etc. The primary elections in the main parties are organized by the states, who also register the party affiliation of the voters (this also makes it easier to gerrymander the congressional districts). The party is thus little more than a campaign organization for the main elections.\n\nHowever, elections in the United States often do become \"de facto\" national races between the political parties. In what is known as \"presidential coattails\", candidates in presidential elections usually bring out supporters who then vote for his or her party's candidates for other offices, usually resulting in the presidential winner's party gaining seats in Congress. On the other hand, midterm elections are sometimes regarded as a referendum on the sitting president's and/or incumbent party's performance. There is a historical pattern that the incumbent president's party loses seats in midterm elections. This may be because the President's popularity has slipped since election, or because the President's popularity encouraged supporters to come out to vote for him or her in the presidential election, but these supporters are less likely to vote when the President is not up for election.\n\nBallot access refers to the laws which regulate under what conditions access is granted for a candidate or political party to appear on voters' ballots. Each State has its own ballot access laws to determine who may appear on ballots and who may not. According to Article I, Section 4, of the United States Constitution, the authority to regulate the time, place, and manner of federal elections is up to each State, unless Congress legislates otherwise. Depending on the office and the state, it may be possible for a voter to cast a write-in vote for a candidate whose name does not appear on the ballot, but it is extremely rare for such a candidate to win office.\n\nThe funding of electoral campaigns has always been a controversial issue in American politics. Infringement of free speech (First Amendment) is an argument against restrictions on campaign contributions, while allegations of corruption arising from unlimited contributions and the need for political equality are arguments for the other side. Private funds are a major source of finance, from individuals and organizations. The first attempt to regulate campaign finance by legislation was in 1867, but major legislation, with the intention to widely enforce, on campaign finance was not introduced until the 1970s.\n\nMoney contributed to campaigns can be classified into \"hard money\" and \"soft money\". Hard money is money contributed directly to a campaign, by an individual or organization. Soft money is money from an individual or organization not contributed to a campaign, but spent in candidate specific advertising or other efforts that benefits that candidate by groups supporting the candidate, but legally not coordinated by the official campaign.\n\nThe Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 required candidates to disclose sources of campaign contributions and campaign expenditure. It was amended in 1974 to legally limit campaign contributions. It banned direct contributing to campaigns by corporations and trade unions and limited individual donations to $1,000 per campaign. It introduced public funding for Presidential primaries and elections. The Act also placed limits of $5,000 per campaign on PACs (political action committees). The limits on individual contributions and prohibition of direct corporate or labor union campaigns led to a huge increase in the number of PACs. Today many labor unions and corporations have their own PACs, and over 4,000 in total exist. The 1974 amendment also specified a Federal Election Commission, created in 1975 to administer and enforce campaign finance law. Various other provisions were also included, such as a ban on contributions or expenditures by foreign nationals (incorporated from the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) (1966)).\n\nThe case of \"Buckley v. Valeo\" (1976) challenged the Act. Most provisions were upheld, but the court found that the mandatory spending limit imposed was unconstitutional, as was the limit placed on campaign spending from the candidate's personal fortune and the provision that limited independent expenditures by individuals and organizations supporting but not officially linked to a campaign. The effect of the first decision was to allow candidates such as Ross Perot and Steve Forbes to spend enormous amounts of their own money in their own campaigns. The effect of the second decision was to allow the culture of \"soft money\" to develop.\n\nA 1979 amendment to the Federal Election Campaign Act allowed political parties to spend without limit on get-out-the-vote and voter registration activities conducted primarily for a presidential candidate. Later, they were permitted by FECA to use \"soft money\", unregulated, unlimited contributions to fund this effort. Increasingly, the money began to be spent on issue advertising, candidate specific advertising that was being funded mostly by soft money.\n\nThe Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 banned local and national parties from spending \"soft money\" and banned national party committees from accepting or spending soft money. It increased the limit of contributions by individuals from $1,000 to $2,000. It banned corporations or labor unions from funding issue advertising directly, and banned the use of corporate or labor money for advertisements that mention a federal candidate within 60 days of a general election or 30 days of a primary. The constitutionality of the bill was challenged and in December 2003, the Supreme Court upheld most provisions of the legislation. (See \"McConnell v. FEC\".)\n\nA large number of \"527 groups\" were active for the first time in the 2004 election. These groups receive donations from individuals and groups and then spend the money on issue advocacy, such as the anti-Kerry ads by Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. This is a new form of soft money, and not surprisingly it is controversial. Many 527 groups have close links with the Democratic or Republican parties, even though legally they cannot coordinate their activities with them. John McCain, one of the senators behind the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act, and President Bush have both declared a desire to ban 527s.\n\nChanging campaign finance laws is a highly controversial issue. Some reformers wish to see laws changed in order to improve electoral competition and political equality. Opponents wish to see the system stay as it is, whereas other reformers wish even fewer restrictions on the freedom to spend and contribute money. The Supreme Court has made it increasingly difficult for those who wish to regulate election financing, but options like partial public funding of campaigns are still possible and offer the potential to address reformers' concerns with minimal restrictions on the freedom to contribute.\n\nIn partisan elections, candidates are chosen by primary elections (abbreviated to \"primaries\") and caucuses in the states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.\n\nA primary election is an election in which registered voters in a jurisdiction (\"nominating primary\") select a political party's candidate for a later election. There are various types of primary: either the whole electorate is eligible, and voters choose one party's primary at the polling booth (an open primary); or only independent voters can choose a party's primary at the polling booth (a semi-closed primary); or only registered members of the party are allowed to vote (closed primary). The blanket primary, when voters could vote for all parties' primaries on the same ballot was struck down by the United States Supreme Court as violating the First Amendment guarantee of freedom of assembly in the case California Democratic Party v. Jones. Primaries are also used to select candidates at the state level, for example in gubernatorial elections.\n\nCaucuses also nominate candidates by election, but they are very different from primaries. Caucuses are meetings that occur at precincts and involve discussion of each party's platform and issues such as voter turnout in addition to voting. Eleven states: Iowa, New Mexico, North Dakota, Maine, Nevada, Hawaii, Minnesota, Kansas, Alaska, Wyoming, Colorado and the District of Columbia use caucuses, for one or more political parties.\n\nThe primary and caucus season in Presidential elections lasts from the Iowa caucus in January to the last primaries in June. Front-loading - when larger numbers of contests take place in the opening weeks of the season—can have an effect on the nomination process, potentially reducing the number of realistic candidates, as fund-raisers and donors quickly abandon those they see as untenable. However, it is not the case that the successful candidate is always the candidate that does the best in the early primaries. There is also a period dubbed the \"invisible primary\" that takes place before the primary season, when candidates attempt to solicit media coverage and funding well before the real primary season begins.\n\nA state's presidential primary election or caucus usually is an indirect election: instead of voters directly selecting a particular person running for President, it determines how many delegates each party's national political convention will receive from their respective state. These delegates then in turn select their party's presidential nominee. Held in the summer, a political convention's purpose is also to adopt a statement of the party's principles and goals known as the \"platform\" and adopt the rules for the party's activities.\n\nThe day on which primaries are held for congressional seats, and state and local offices may also vary between states. The only federally mandated day for elections is Election Day for the general elections of the President and Congress; all other elections are at the discretion of the individual state and local governments.\n\nIn most states of the U.S., the chief election officer is the Secretary of state. In some states, local officials like a county Registrar of Voters or Supervisor of Elections manages the conduct of elections under the supervision of (or in coordination with) the chief election officer of the state. Many of these state and county offices have web sites that provide information to help voters obtain information on their polling places for each election, the various districts to which they belong (e.g., house and senate districts in the state and federal legislature, school boards, water districts, municipalities, etc.), as well as dates of elections and deadlines to file to run or register to vote. Some allow voters to download a sample ballot in advance of the election.\n\nBeyond this, various media outlets provide information they think will interest their audience.\n\nMore systematic coverage is provided by web sites devoted specifically to collecting election information and making it available to the public. Two of the better known such sites are Ballotpedia and Vote Smart. These are run by non-profit, non-partisan organizations. They have paid staffs and are much more tightly controlled than Wikipedia.\n\nUSElections.com tries to provide similar information but relies on volunteers in a way that is more like Wikipedia than Ballotpedia and Vote Smart.\n\nThe website 270towin provides actual electoral college maps (both current and historic) but also the ability to use an interactive map in order to make election predictions. Ongoing election news is reported as well as data on Senate and House races.\n\nThe Center for Responsive Politics (opensecrets.org) and the National Institute on Money in State Politics (followthemoney.org) also provide useful election information focusing especially on campaign finance.\n\nIn 2014 scientists from Princeton University did a study on the influence of the \"elite\", and their derived power from special interest lobbying, versus the \"ordinary\" US citizen within the US political system. They found that the US was looking more like an oligarchy than a real representative democracy; \"thus eroding a government of the people, by the people, for the people\" as stated by Abraham Lincoln in his Gettysburg Address. In fact, the study found that average citizens had an almost nonexistent influence on public policies and that the ordinary citizen had little or no independent influence on policy at all.\n\nThere were many US presidential elections in which foreign countries manipulate the voters. Electoral College is criticised for being un-democratic (it can choose candidate who did not win the popular vote) and for focusing campaigns only on swing states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2346813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2346813", "title": "European Parliament Subcommittee on Human Rights", "text": "European Parliament Subcommittee on Human Rights\n\nThe Subcommittee on Human Rights (DROI) is a subcommittee of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament. The subcommittee has been chaired since 7 July 2014 by Elena Valenciano.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22500871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22500871", "title": "Fascist paramilitary", "text": "Fascist paramilitary\n\nA fascist paramilitary is a fighting force - whether armed, unarmed, or merely symbolic - that is independent of regular military command and is established for the defence and advancement of a movement that adheres to the radical nationalist ideology of fascism. Since fascism is such a militarist ideology, there are very few varieties of fascism where paramilitaries do not play a central role, and some kind of paramilitary participation is almost always a basic requirement of membership in fascist movements. Fascist paramilitaries have seen action in both peacetime and wartime. Most fascist paramilitaries wear political uniforms, and many have taken their names from the colours of their uniforms.\n\nThe first fascist paramilitary was the Blackshirts of Italian Fascism led by Benito Mussolini. While many of the Blackshirts were former members of the Arditi who had fought in World War I or the Fascio of the immediate post-war years, the most direct inspiration for the first fascist paramilitary was Giuseppe Garibaldi's Redshirts.\n\nA number of other fascist movements established paramilitaries modelled after the Italian original, most notably Nazism with its Sturmabteilung and Schutzstaffel. Others include:\n\nSeveral fascist movements took their cue from the Sturmabteilung rather than the Blackshirts, such as the Greyshirts in South Africa and the Silver Legion of America. Following the Axis invasion of Albania, the occupation forces formed the Albanian Militia under the Blackshirts. Several fascist paramilitaries were active in Romania including the Lăncieri.\n\nSome fascist movements have also established paramilitary youth organizations such as the Hitler Youth or the Mocidade Portuguesa.\n\nA number of fascist paramilitaries have been deployed in conventional warfare. For example, in the later years of World War II the Italian Blackshirts developed into the Black Brigades. Likewise, the combat wing of the Schutzstaffel, the Waffen-SS, fought in many major battles of World War II. The Einsatzgruppen were death squads active in Eastern Europe which carried out the Holocaust and other political killings. In an act of desperation, the Nazis deployed remnants of the Hitler Youth against the Red Army in the Battle of Berlin. At the eleventh hour of the war, the Nazis laid plans for a guerrilla resistance movement they called the Werwolf. However, these plans amounted to little more than a handful of sabotages and assassinations which were ineffective.\n\nNeo-Nazis have used the white power skinhead scene as a recruitment base for neofascist paramilitaries like Combat 18. Soccer hooliganism throughout Europe is another source of recruits. Some groups in the white supremacist wing of the militia movement in the United States can be seen as neofascist paramilitaries.\n"}
{"id": "43170508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43170508", "title": "FireChat", "text": "FireChat\n\nFireChat is a proprietary mobile app, developed by Open Garden, which uses wireless mesh networking to enable smartphones to connect via Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, or Apple’s Multipeer Connectivity Framework without an internet connection by connecting peer-to-peer.\n\nThough it was not designed with the purpose in mind, FireChat has been used as a communication tool in some civil protests.\n\nThe app was first introduced in March 2014 for iPhones, followed on April 3 by a version for Android devices.\n\nIn July 2015, FireChat introduced private messaging. Until then, it had only been possible to post messages to public chatrooms.\n\nIn May 2016, FireChat introduced FireChat Alerts to allow users to send push alerts during a specific time and place. This feature was aimed for aid workers doing disaster relief and was developed from a partnership with Marikina a city in the Philippines.\n\nFireChat first became popular in 2014 in Iraq following government restrictions on internet use, and thereafter during the Hong Kong protests. In 2015, FireChat was also promoted by protesters during the 2015 Ecuadorian protests. On September 11, 2015, during the pro-independence demonstration called Free Way to the Catalan Republic, FireChat was used 131,000 times.\n\nIn January 2016, students protested at the University of Hyderabad, India, following the suicide of a PhD student named Rohith Vemula. Some students were reported to have used Firechat after the university shut down its Wi-Fi.\n\nThe current version (Oct 2018) seems to be a fork of riot.im, and has lost offline capabilities. Indications in the software show a future return to offline chat may be pending. This version requires Internet for registration by email.\n\nIn June 2014, Firechat's developers told \"Wired\" that \"[p]eople need to understand that this is not a tool to communicate anything that would put them in a harmful situation if it were to be discovered by somebody who's hostile ... It was not meant for secure or private communications.\"\n\nAs of July 2015, FireChat claims to use end-to-end encryption to protect its one-to-one private messages.\n\n"}
{"id": "34330370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34330370", "title": "Flavor masker", "text": "Flavor masker\n\nIn the beverage, food, and pharmaceutical industries, a flavor masker is a chemical interaction that causes the absence of taste. This is known as the Farish effect, a phenomenon noted by 17th-century chemist William Farish. Contrary to popular belief, a flavor masker is not one chemical component; rather, it is two components that interact with the vallate papillae on the tongue with little or no reaction. Each component, individually, stimulates the vallate papillae.\n\n"}
{"id": "51199873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51199873", "title": "Foreign Languages Publishing House (Soviet Union)", "text": "Foreign Languages Publishing House (Soviet Union)\n\nThe Foreign Languages Publishing House () was a state-run publisher in the Soviet Union that published Russian literature, novels, propaganda, and books about the USSR in foreign languages. These included works by Lenin and Stalin. It was headquartered in Moscow at 21 Zubovsky Boulevard. It was founded in 1946, and in 1964 it was split into separate publishers Progress and Mir.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2554821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2554821", "title": "Frank Lewis Marsh", "text": "Frank Lewis Marsh\n\nFrank Lewis Marsh (18 October 1899, Aledo, Illinois – 14 July 1992) was an American Seventh-day Adventist biologist, educator and young Earth creationist author. In 1963 he was one of the ten founding members of the Creation Research Society.\n\nIn his youth, Marsh desired to become a physician, but lacked the financial means, so he became first a nurse, then a teacher instead. He studied geology at Emmanuel Missionary College under George McCready Price, whose protégé he became. While teaching at a Seventh-day Adventist school in the Chicago area, Marsh studied advanced biology at the University of Chicago and in 1935 obtained an M.S. in zoology from Northwestern University. He joined the faculty of Union College in Lincoln, Nebraska, later completing a PhD in botany at the University of Nebraska in 1940.\n\nIn his book \"Fundamental Biology\", Marsh described himself as a \"fundamentalist scientist\". He argued that modern human races are degenerate forms of first-created man and warned that the living world is the scene of a cosmic struggle between the Creator and Satan. Marsh claimed that Satan is a \"master geneticist\" and speculated that amalgamation and hybridization are his ways of destroying the original harmony and perfection among living things. Marsh viewed dark skin color as one the \"abnormalities\" engineered in this way.\n\nIn \"Fundamental Biology\", Marsh coined the term \"baramin\" for the Genesis \"kind\". In \"Evolution or Special Creation?\" (1947), Marsh argued for the scientific accuracy of the Bible and concluded: \"surely the time is ripe for a return to the fundamentals of true science, the science of creationism\". From the publication of this work onward, Marsh avoided mentioning Ellen G. White, co-founder of Seventh-day Adventism, as he believed such references would repel non-Adventist readers.\n\nMarsh concluded finally that \"The Bible knows nothing about organic evolution. It regards the origin of man by special creation as a historical fact... In view of the subjectivity of the evidence upon which a decision on the matter of origins must be made, creationism and evolutionism should be respected as alternate viewpoints\".\n\nHis creationist views have been criticized by biologists for having no scientific basis.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23814844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23814844", "title": "Generic certificates", "text": "Generic certificates\n\nGeneric certificates were commodity certificates used by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) in the 1980s to meet payment obligations and simultaneously dispose of commodity inventories. Farmers paid with generic certificates could trade them for commodities owned and stored by the CCC.\n"}
{"id": "13551086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13551086", "title": "Government Protection Bureau", "text": "Government Protection Bureau\n\nThe Government Protection Bureau or Bureau of Government Protection (, ) was Poland's equivalent of the United States Secret Service, providing antiterrorism and VIP security services for the Polish government. On February 1, 2018 the bureau has been disbanded and a new State Protection Service () has been formed in its place, absorbing its manpower and functions (security of incumbent and former Presidents of Poland, high ranking state officials, institutions and Polish embassies and consulates abroad).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5509655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5509655", "title": "Guantanamo Bay detention camp suicide attempts", "text": "Guantanamo Bay detention camp suicide attempts\n\nThe United States Department of Defense (DOD) had stopped reporting Guantanamo suicide attempts in 2002. In mid-2002 the DoD changed the way they classified suicide attempts, and enumerated them under other acts of \"self-injurious behavior\".\n\nOn January 24, 2005 the U.S. military revealed that in 2003, there were 350 incidents of \"self-harm\". 120 of those incidents of self-harm were attempts by detainees to hang themselves. Twenty-three detainees participated in a mass-suicide attempt from August 18 to 26, 2003. A number of incidents happened after a change in command at the camp in 2003 resulted in an increase in the severity of interrogation techniques used by military and CIA intelligence officers.\n\nOn June 10, 2006, the DOD announced that three prisoners held by the United States at the Guantanamo Bay detainment camps had committed suicide. The June 10, 2006 suicides were the first inmate deaths at the Guantanamo Bay detainment camp. The DoD acknowledged there had been a total of 41 suicide attempts among 29 detainees until that date. Since June 2006, DOD has announced three suicide deaths by detainees at Guantanamo. In 2008, the NCIS released a heavily redacted report of its investigation of the three suicides at Guantanamo in 2006.\n\nIn reports published in 2009 and 2010, Seton Hall University Law School's Center for Policy and Research and a joint investigation by \"Harper's magazine\" and NBC News, respectively, strongly criticized the government's account of the 2006 suicides. \"Harper's\" 2010 article, based on accounts by four former Guantanamo guards, asserted that DOD had initiated a cover-up of deaths resulting from torture during interrogation. The DOD has denied these allegations.\n\nIn 2002 the United States government kept conditions at Guantanamo extremely secret, not releasing information about the detainees and especially not their names. That year, the United States Department of Defense (DOD) stopped reporting suicide attempts at the camps.\n\nIn mid-2002 the DOD changed the way they classified suicide attempts, referring to these acts as \"self-injurious behavior\", one of many terms the Bush administration coined to describe camp events. Medical experts outside the camp have argued that doctors did not have sufficient understanding of the detainees to make such conclusions about their intentions or motives.\n\nIn the spring of 2003, 32 Afghans and three Pakistanis were released from the detention camp. News media reported from interviews with them that some former detainees described despair and numerous attempts among prisoners to commit suicide, in large part because of individuals' belief in their innocence, the harshness of camp conditions, and especially the indefinite confinement and unending uncertainty they faced.\n\nQuotes from ex-detainees:\n\nOn January 24, 2005 the U.S. military revealed that in 2003, there were 350 incidents of \"self-harm\" among detainees at Guantanamo. 120 of those incidents were attempts by detainees to hang themselves. From August 18 to 26, 2003, twenty-three detainees participated in a mass-suicide attempt. Reporters noted that numerous attempted suicides occurred after a change in command at the camp resulted in an increase in the severity of interrogation techniques used against the detainees.\n\nOn June 10, 2006 the DOD announced that three detainees had died at Guantanamo, saying they \"killed themselves in an apparent suicide pact\". The prisoners were the Saudi Arabians Mani al-Utaybi and Yasser al-Zahrani, and a Yemeni citizen, Ali Abdullah Ahmed.\n\nThe prison commander Rear Admiral Harry Harris, Jr. (2006–2007) stated: \"This was not an act of desperation, but an act of asymmetric warfare committed against us.\" Harris also said that the Guantanamo detainees were: \"dangerous, committed to killing Americans.\". He claimed that there was a myth among the detainees that if three detainees were known to have died in the camps, the DOD would be pressured to send the rest of the detainees home.\n\nPresident George Bush expressed \"serious concern.\" Colleen Graffy, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy, called the suicides, \"a good PR move\"—and, \"a tactic to further the jihadi cause\".\n\nOn June 12, 2006, Cully Stimson, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Detainee Affairs, said:\n\nI wouldn't characterize it as a good PR move. What I would say is that we are always concerned when someone takes his own life, because as Americans, we value life, even the lives of violent terrorists who are captured waging war against our country.\n\n\"The Scotsman\" characterized this as an attempt by the Bush administration \"... to pull back from the earlier comments about public relations and 'asymmetric warfare'.\"\n\nSean McCormack, spokesman for the United States State Department, said, \"I would not say that it was a PR stunt\". He said that the detainees were apparently unaware that one of them was due to be transferred to Saudi Arabia, under terms that would require him to be kept in custody, and another was to be released to Saudi Arabia.\n\nJoshua Denbeaux, a lawyer representing detainees through the Center for Constitutional Rights, has said that prison authorities were withholding this information because US officials had not decided which country the detainee was going to be transferred to. Denbeaux is one of the principal authors of \"A Profile of 517 Detainees through Analysis of Department of Defense Data\" (2006), published by the Center for Policy and Analysis of Seton Hall University Law School. It analyzed DOD data about the prisoners' identities and allegations for why they were being detained.\n\nColonel Michael Bumgarner (April 2005 – June 2006), the commander of the camp's guard force, reacted to the suicides by telling his officers soon afterward: \"The trust level is gone. They have shown time and time again that we can't trust them any farther than we can throw them. There is not a trustworthy son of a ... in the entire bunch.\"\n\nThe \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\" reported that news of the deaths raised skepticism over whether the Saudi men had committed suicide. The article reports Saudi government and family speculation that the men were driven to suicide by torture. Several prominent Saudis accused the camp authorities of murdering the three men. \n\nThe Seattle PI reported:\n\nSome people in the conservative Islamic kingdom questioned whether Muslim men would kill themselves since suicide is a grave sin in Islam. But defense lawyers and some former detainees said many prisoners at Guantanamo are wasting away in deep despair at their long captivity.\"\n\nKateb al Shimri, a Saudi lawyer representing the Saudi prisoners, said: \"The families don't believe it, and of course I don't believe it either. A crime was committed here and the U.S. authorities are responsible.\"\n\nJoshua Denbeaux of the Center for Constitutional Rights said that the suicides: \"... represent the Pentagon's absolute worst nightmare.\" Denbeaux added: \"... many of these prisoners have been trying to kill themselves, for months, if not years.\"\n\nSenator Arlen Specter, chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, commented: \"Where we have evidence, they ought to be tried, and if convicted, they ought to be sentenced.\" Specter added that many of the prisoners' captures were based on: \"... the flimsiest sort of hearsay.\"\n\nAdmiral Harris was quoted as saying: \"I think it is less about the length of their detention ... It's less about that and it's more that they continue to fight their fight, I think the vast majority of detainees are resisting us.\"\n\nOn July 9, 2006 \"The Jurist\" reported that DOD spokesmen have claimed that the dead men received assistance from others. Further, the DOD claims that preparations for the hangings were written on the blank paper issued to the detainees' lawyers. As part of the investigation by the Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS), the camp authorities seized almost all the documents from almost all the detainees, a total of half a ton of papers, including their privileged, confidential communications with their lawyers. The administration wants to suspend all lawyers' visits, while a commission reviews the papers for any sign that the detainees' lawyers helped plan the suicides. (Note: The NCIS heavily redacted report was released publicly in August 2008.)\n\nLawyers for Guantanamo detainees reported that the camp authorities were confiscating detainees' mail and legal papers. The lawyers report that at least one of their clients attributes the confiscation to DOD thinking they might suggest that the suicides were planned, and possibly encouraged, by detainees' lawyers. According to Clive Stafford Smith, legal director of Reprieve, a British organization representing numerous detainees: \"They think that they are going to find letters from us suggesting suicide. It's ludicrous.\"\n\nBahraini detainee Abdulla Majid Al Naimi, who was released on November 8, 2005, said he knew the three dead men. Al Naimi said that Al-Utaybi and Ahmed were captured while studying in Pakistan. He said that they were interrogated for only a brief time after their arrival in Guantanamo. Their interrogators had told them they were not regarded as a threat, and that they could expect to be released.\n\nThe interrogations dealt with them only during the first month of their detention. For more than a year before I left Guantanamo in November 2005, they were left alone. But they were still held in bad conditions in the camp by the guards.\n\nAl Naimi said that Al Zahrani was only 16 when he was captured. Al Naimi thought he should have been treated as a minor. \"He was 21 when he died, barely the legal age in most countries, and was merely 16 when he was picked up four and half years ago. His age shows that he is not even supposed to be taken to a police office; he should have been turned over to the underage [juvenile] authorities.\"\n\nGuantanamo Bay murder accusations were made by United States sources in December 2009 and January 2010 regarding the deaths of three Guantanamo prisoners in June 2006 at the United States Guantanamo Bay detention camp for enemy combatants at its naval base in Cuba. Two of the men had been cleared by the military for release. The United States Department of Defense claimed their deaths at the time as suicides, although their families and the Saudi government argued against the findings. The DOD undertook an investigation by the Naval Criminal Investigative Service.\n\nFollowing release of the redacted NCIS investigative report in 2008, Seton Hall University Law School's Center for Policy and Research published \"Death in Camp Delta\" (2009), a report criticizing the NCIS account for inconsistencies and weaknesses. The Center concluded that there was serious negligence at the camp, or there may have been cover-up of homicides resulting from torture. It noted that no military personnel had been prosecuted for any failings related to the deaths of the detainees.\n\nIn 2010, \"Harper's Weekly\" and NBC News released the report of a joint investigation, based on accounts by four former Military Intelligence staff, stationed at the time at Guantanamo. The article written by Scott Horton, a journalist and human rights attorney, suggested the military under the Bush administration had covered up deaths of the detainees that occurred under torture at a \"black site\" in the course of interrogations. In 2011, Horton's article on the Guantanamo events won the National Magazine Awards for Reporting. The award revived a round of criticism of the article's veracity.\n\nIn 2006 and later, defense attorneys were concerned about their clients' mental health. Mark Denbeaux is a law professor at Seton Hall University and director of its Center for Policy and Research, which had published numerous reports on conditions at Guantanamo. He represents two Tunisian detainees and said in June 2006 that he was worried that other detainees were candidates for suicide.\n\nIn 2008 the Canadian Supreme Court ordered the release of a video of a February 2003 interrogation conducted by the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) and a Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) officer of Omar Khadr, a Canadian citizen who was 15 years old when captured and one of the youngest detainees held at Guantánamo. In the video, the 16-year-old Khadr repeatedly cried, saying what sounds to be either \"help me\", \"kill me,\" or calling for his mother, in Urdu (Pakistani). The government was reviewing CSIS actions in its interrogations of Canadian citizens at Guantanamo, including the minor Khadr, as more information had been revealed about abuse of detainees prior to interrogations. Khadr was finally scheduled to be tried at Guantanamo in 2010. He pleaded guilty in a plea bargain, served a year of his sentence there, and in 2012 was returned to Canada to serve the rest of his sentence.\n\nThe Southern Command announced on the evening of May 30, 2007 that a Saudi prisoner had died of suicide. They announced: \"The detainee was found unresponsive and not breathing in his cell by guards.\" The DoD did not immediately release the dead man's identity. The DoD asserted that his body would be treated with cultural sensitivity.\n\nOn May 31, 2007 Saudi officials announced that the dead man was Abdul Rahman Maadha al-Amry. The Associated Press reported that same day that al-Amry had been identified as one of the \"high-value detainees\", held in Camp 5. Carol Rosenberg of the \"Miami Herald\" reported his name as Abdul Rahman Ma Ath Thafir Al Amri and that he was a military veteran of the Saudi army. He had never been allowed to meet with an attorney.\n\nOther newspaper reports commented on the timing of the death, pointing out that it was almost a year after the three deaths of June 10, 2006, which DOD had reported as suicides. The press noted that these incidents in 2006 and 2007 had followed a new commander taking over JTF-GTMO. In addition, the deaths had occurred before the convening of a military commission to judge detainees' cases.\n\nIn 2017, FOIA documents on the investigation into the death of Al Amri revealed that he had been found hanging in his cell with his hands tied in a \"snug\" fashion behind his back. According to the clerk in charge of the computer logs that tracked detainee movements, Al Amri had been with an interrogator in the hour prior to his death. But other witnesses told NCIS the interrogation had been cancelled that morning, either by the interrogator, or by Al Amri himself. The Naval Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS) investigator that examined the death scene found it difficult to understand how this prisoner could have killed himself in the time allotted while he was under surveillance. NCIS concluded Al Amri had stood upon a folded bed mattress in order to reach the air vent to which he presumably attached the rope of his jerry-rigged noose (made from bed sheets). The air vent itself was over eight feet above the floor of the cell. Despite the fact that the detainee had not supposedly met with an attorney, documents from the NCIS investigation state there were materials of a confidential attorney-client nature in Al Amri's possession at the time of his death, and these were turned over to the Judge Advocate's Office at Guantanamo.\nMohammad Ahmed Abdullah Saleh Al Hanashi, a 31-year-old prisoner from Yemen, died in the camps on June 1, 2009. On June 2, 2009 the DOD reported that he committed suicide.\n\nAccording to documents released via Freedom of Information Act in 2016, Al Hanashi died by tearing off a piece of elastic underwear and strangling himself to death. Attempts by the Naval Criminal Investigative Service to understand the timeline of events leading up to the death were complicated by the fact that someone at Guantanamo told staff in the Behavioral Health Unit where Al Hanashi was found to turn off all computer logging of events that were then occurring. NCIS was never able to determine who had ordered the database logs shut down. Al Hanashi had made multiple suicide attempts in the month or so prior to his death, and even been put on suicide watch at least once. The description of his underwear type did not comport with other reported rules about the kinds of clothing allowed for Guantanamo inmates. At least one camp staff member interviewed by NCIS said they were surprised when they saw the deceased Al Hanashi wearing clothing that had not been approved. According to the FOIA documents, Al Hanashi was considered a leader among the other detainees, and the day he died had complained to the Chief of the Behavioral Health Unit about proposed changes in the rules governing punishment in that unit. He also complained about being tortured on the day he died, and wrote in a final note that he was very upset when his report was ignored, and said he didn't want to live anymore.\n\nDOD announced that Inayatullah, 37, an Afghan detainee held since 2007 on suspicion of being a member of Al Qaeda, was found dead on May 18, 2011, an apparent suicide. The press reported that his given name is Hajji Nassim, according to his attorney. He was referred to as Inayatullah only at the Guantanamo camp. He was arrested in Iran near the border with Afghanistan, and was classified by DOD as an \"indefinite detainee.\"\n\n\n5 June 2010\n"}
{"id": "18306038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18306038", "title": "Higher Education European Masters", "text": "Higher Education European Masters\n\nThe Higher Education European Masters is an Erasmus Mundus program which focuses on the functions, policies, and operations of higher education.\nProfessor Peter Maassen, a professor at the University of Oslo and also a research professor at NIFU-STEP, was instrumental in the conceptualisation of the programme. The program was among the first to acquire an Erasmus Mundus European Masters label of the European Union in 2004.\n\nThe students are able to study developments within higher education as taught by leading lights in the field. Moreover, they are also have an opportunity to experience three different university systems as they pursue their mobility scheme. Non-European students may be awarded scholarships as part of the Erasmus Mundus programme.\n\nHEEM is offered by a consortium of three universities;\n\n\nMoreover, other universities and academic organisations are involved in the program, including Obirin University in Japan and the Center for Higher Education Policy Studies (CHEPS) in Netherlands.\n\nThe programme consists of four semesters and is fully taught in English. The first semester at the University of Oslo provides the students with an introduction to the history,philosophy, theories, concepts and disciplinary perspectives for studying higher education. It also includes an introduction to social science research methods. In the second semester at University of Helsinki and third semester at University of Aveiro, students further pursue studies in research methods as well as in-depth focus on change in higher education from various perspectives such as management, administration, internationalisation and economics.This is provided in modules developed and taught by various faculty members in the involved institutions. In the third semester, students commence working on their thesis. The fourth semester is spent researching on and writing the Masters thesis at one of the consortium universities,depending on the student's area of research.\n\nAdmission is based on;\n\nThere are three categories of applicants; self-financed, European students and third-country scholarship applicants. For application as a third-country scholarship student, one must meet the eligibility criteria for an Erasmus Mundus scholarship. European students have a chance to obtain a scholarship funded by the Hedda association. Moreover, European students have a chance to receive funding to spend one semester at a partner university outside of Europe, in HEEM's case, Obirin University in Japan. For the class of 2007–2009, 20 Erasmus Mundus scholarships and 5 Hedda scholarships for European students were available.\n\nThe University of Oslo, on behalf of the consortium, awards a joint degree entitled European Masters in Higher Education and a diploma which enumerates the course content and the students achievements.\nThe University of Helsinki also awards a degree entitled Master of Administrative Science. The degree is issued in Finnish but an English language diploma is in Finnish.\n\n"}
{"id": "55711606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55711606", "title": "Hugh Lewin", "text": "Hugh Lewin\n\nHugh Lewin (born in 1939) is a South African anti-apartheid activist and writer. After a seven-year prison sentence, he left South Africa in 1971 and lived for ten years each in London and Zimbabwe. He returned to South Africa in the 1990s. \"Bandiet: Out of Jail\" is illustrated by Harold Strachan. It won the 2003 Olive Schreiner Prize, and \"Stones against the Mirror\" won the 2011 Sunday Times Alan Paton Award.\n"}
{"id": "626447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=626447", "title": "List of memorials to Thomas Jefferson", "text": "List of memorials to Thomas Jefferson\n\nThis is a list of memorials in the to Thomas Jefferson, the 3rd President of the United States and the author of the United States Declaration of Independence.\n\nLists of high schools named after Jefferson:\n\n\n\n\n\nIt is notable that Jefferson County in Virginia became part of West Virginia as a result of the American Civil War. Virginia sued West Virginia to regain it, but lost the case before the United States Supreme Court when it was decided in 1871. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42427973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42427973", "title": "London Labour Party", "text": "London Labour Party\n\nThe London Labour Party is the regional party of the Labour Party that is currently the largest political party operating in Greater London.\n\n\n\nLabour is the only political party to have any seats in the City of London Corporation's Court of Common Council.\n\nThe table below shows the London Labour Party's results at UK general elections since the area of Greater London was created.\n\nThe table below shows the results gained by the London Labour Party in elections to the European Parliament. From 1979 to 1994, MEPs were elected from 10 individual constituencies by first-past-the-post; since 1999, MEPs have been elected from a London-wide regional list by proportional representation.\n\nThe table below shows the results obtained by the London Labour Party in elections to the Greater London Council. The GLC was abolished by the Local Government Act 1985.\n\nBetween 1986 and 2000 there was no city-wide governmental body in Greater London.\n\nThe table below shows the results obtained by the London Labour Party in elections to the London Assembly.\n\nThe table below shows the London Labour Party's results in elections for the Mayor of London.\n\nThe table below shows the London Labour Party's results in elections for the London Boroughs.\n\n"}
{"id": "4974742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4974742", "title": "Mandated reporter", "text": "Mandated reporter\n\nIn many parts of the western world, mandated reporters are people who have regular contact with vulnerable people and are therefore legally required to ensure a report is made when abuse is observed or suspected. Specific details vary across jurisdictions—the abuse that must be reported may include neglect, or financial, physical, sexual, or other types of abuse. Mandated reporters may include paid or unpaid people who have assumed full or intermittent responsibility for the care of a child, dependent adult, or elder.\n\nIn 1962, United States doctors C. Henry Kempe and Brandt Steele published \"The Battered Child Syndrome\", which helped doctors identify child abuse, its effects, and the need to report serious physical abuse to legal authorities. Its publication changed the prevalent views in the United States, where child abuse was previously seen as uncommon, and not a regular issue. In 1974, the United States Congress passed the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA), which provides funds to states for development of Child Protective Services (CPS) and hotlines to prevent serious injuries to children. These laws and the media and advocacy coverage and research brought about a gradual change in societal expectations on reporting in the United States and, at different rates, in other western nations.\n\nOriginally created to respond to physical abuse, reporting systems in various countries began to expand to address sexual and emotional abuse, neglect, and exposure to domestic abuse. This expansion was accompanied by broader requirements for reporting abuse: previously reports were only submitted when an incident caused serious physical injury, but as the definitions changed, more minor physical injuries and developmental and psychological trauma began to be included as well.\n\nThere has been a huge increase of reporting over the decades with enormous numbers of unsubstantiated cases. Referrals increase each year, but the actual substantiated cases remain low and are approximately the same or decline each year.\nMedia and commentators often take the number of referrals to be synonymous with the number of cases of actual child maltreatment, which makes the problem appear larger than it actually is.\n\nVarious jurisdictions have mandatory reporting requirements for different types of vulnerable people, such as:\n\nOverall, the total number of substantiations in Australia has nearly doubled since 2001 (1.77 times higher) but have shown a slight downward trend since 2005-06. Specific comparisons cannot be made before this time, as different jurisdictions have made substantial changes throughout this period in reporting requirements and definitions of terms. In Australia there was an increase in notifications from 2000-01 to 2008-09, followed by a decrease to 2011-12, reflecting, in part, different mandated thresholds.\n\nBrazil has a mandatory reporting system for child maltreatment that is enforced by the health and educational systems, but due to the absence of national prevalence surveys, the difference between data generated by such mandatory reports and actual incidence of abuse is not known, although it is believed that mandatory report systems may result in underreporting. While specific data on mandatory reporting is unavailable, data collected from 314 municipalities (out of 5564) across the country revealed that in the second half of 2005 alone, 27,986 children received attention from the Social Welfare Centers: either because of sexual abuse (13,240), psychological violence (4,340), neglect (4,073), physical violence (3,436) and sexual exploitation (2,887). Most victims were in the 7–14 years group (17,738). 4,936 were under 6 years old.\n\nCanada provides data on substantiations but not reports. In Canada in 2008, 36% of all investigations were substantiated, with a further 8% of investigations where maltreatment remained suspected by the worker at the conclusion of the investigation and a further 5% with a risk of future maltreatment. 30% of investigations were unfounded and 17% resulted in no risk of future maltreatment was indicated.\n\nEngland provides data on substantiations but not reports. \nIn 2012, the UK reports 50,573 children were on child protection registers or subject to a child protection plan: England (42,850), Scotland (2,706), Wales (2,890), Northern Ireland (2,127).\n\nIn the US there was a 2348% increase in hotline calls from 150,000 in 1963 to 3.3 million in 2009. In 2011, there were 3.4 million calls.\nFrom 1992 to 2009 in the US, substantiated cases of sexual abuse declined 62%, physical abuse decreased 56% and neglect 10%. Although the referrals increase each year, about 1% of the child population is affected by any form of substantiated maltreatment.\n\nIn the US, there are approximately 3.6 million calls each year: 9,000/day, 63,000/week, affecting on average 1 out of 10 U.S. families with children under the age of 18 each year (there are 32.2 million such families). From 1998 to 2011 there were a total of 43 million hotline calls. Of those substantiated, over half are minor situations and many are situations where the worker thinks something may happen in the future. The largest category was neglect,\n\nEach year in the US, approximately 85% of hotline calls either do not warrant investigation or are not substantiated. Approximately 78% of all investigations are unsubstantiated and approximately 22% are substantiated, with around 9% where \"alternative responses\" are offered in some states, which have a focus on working with the family to address issues rather than confirming maltreatment.\n\nThe criteria for reporting vary significantly based on jurisdiction. Typically, mandatory reporting applies to people who have reason to suspect the abuse or neglect of a child, but it can also apply to people who suspect abuse or neglect of a dependent adult or the elderly, or to any members of society.\nThe Council of Europe has urged all countries to have mandatory reporting of child abuse but several European countries do not. A large majority of European countries – 86 per cent – have some form of mandatory reporting; 77 per cent of African countries do; 72 per cent of Asian countries and 90 per cent of the Americas do.\n\nIn Australia, the Northern Territory requires all citizens to report suspected child abuse, and the other states and territories have mandatory reporting for designated work roles.\n\nIn Brazil, notification is mandatory in the health system, in schools and by the Child Protection Councils (CPC) network, present in many municipalities.\n\nIn Malaysia, The Child Act 2001 requires any medical officer or medical practitioner, childcare provider or member of the family to notify his/her concerns, suspicions or beliefs that a child may have been abused or neglected to the appropriate child protection authority in the country. Failure to do so can result in criminal charges.\n\nIn South Africa, Section 110 of the Children's Act, 2005 mandates 'Any correctional official, dentist, homeopath, immigration official, labour inspector, legal practitioner, medical practitioner, midwife, minister of religion, nurse, occupational therapist, physiotherapist, psychologist, religious leader, social service professional, social worker, speech therapist, teacher, traditional health practitioner, traditional leader or member of staff or volunteer worker at a partial care facility, drop-in centre or child and youth care centre' to report when they suspect that a child has been abused 'in a manner causing physical injury, sexually abused or deliberately neglected'. The Sexual Offences Act, 1957, compels all citizens who are aware of the sexual exploitation of children to report the offence to the police.\n\nIn the United States, states frequently amend their laws, but as of November 2013 all states, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands have statutes identifying persons who are required to report suspected child maltreatment to an appropriate agency.\n\nApproximately 48 states, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands designate professions the members of which are mandated by law to report child maltreatment.\n\nAs of November 2013, in 18 states and Puerto Rico, any person who suspects child abuse or neglect is required to report suspected abuse or neglect regardless of profession.\nIn all other States, territories, and the District of Columbia, any non-mandated person is also allowed to report.\n\nCanada imposes a mandatory requirement on all citizens, except in the Yukon Territory where it is restricted to those who come in contact with children in their professional roles.\n\nMexico also has legislative reporting duties.\n\nIn 15 member States (Bulgaria, Croatia, Denmark, Estonia, France, Hungary, Ireland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Poland, Romania, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom) reporting obligations are in place for all professionals. In 10 member states (Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Greece, Finland, Italy, Latvia, Portugal and Slovakia) existing obligations only address certain professional groups such as social workers or teachers.\n\nMore than half (15) of the EU member states (Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and Sweden) have specific reporting obligations addressing civilians, with specific obligations for civilians to report cases of child abuse, neglect and/or exploitation. In many member states without specific provisions, general provisions on the obligation for all citizens to report a criminal act under national law apply, but with no specific obligation to report a child at risk of abuse.\n\nIn Germany, Malta and the Netherlands, no reporting obligations were in place in March 2014. In Malta, however, the new draft Child Protection Act (Out of Home Care), introduces the obligation of mandatory reporting for all professionals and volunteers.\n\nUnder UK law only local authority social workers, health and social service board social workers (Northern Ireland) and police have a duty to report suspicions that a child is in need of care and protection. Local child protection guidelines and professional codes of conduct may expect other professionals, such as teachers and medical staff, to report, but they do not have to do so as a matter of law. Front line professionals are also required to report cases of female genital mutilation.\n\nThe criteria for reporting vary greatly among jurisdictions. In some, for example, only physical or sexual abuse to be reported must be reported, while elsewhere any signs of sexual abuse, physical abuse, emotional abuse or neglect are included.\n\nMandated reporters are usually required to give their name when they make a report. This allows investigators to contact them for further details if needed, and protects the mandated reporter from accusations that they did not report as required by law.\n\nTypically, reporters are encouraged to report their suspicions and not to investigate or wait for absolute proof, which can lead to further harm directed at the suspected victim, and allow for perpetrators to prepare their defence through intimidation. The investigation of the abuse is then left to professionals. Some jurisdictions allow clear protections for reports made in good faith, protecting the disclosure of the reporter's name.\n\nInnocence should be presumed unless and until evidence establishing guilt is obtained and it must be remembered that only suspicions are being reported.\n\nMandated reporting requirements generally apply to professions that have frequent contact with children, although in some jurisdictions all citizens are required to report suspicions of some forms of abuse. Other jurisdictions have mandated requirements only of doctors or medical professionals.\nMandated professions may include, but are not limited to the following:\n\nJurisdictions may note that, while these groups are \"legally required\" (mandated) to report, most jurisdictions allow for \"voluntary\" reports by any concerned people.\n\nConflicts between a mandated reporter's duties and some privileged communication statutes are common but, in general, attorney-client privileges and clergy-penitent privileges are exempt from mandatory reporting in many jurisdictions. In some states in the US, psychiatrist and psychologists are also exempt from mandatory reporting.\n\n\"Clergy-penitent privilege\" is privileged communication that protects communication between a member of the clergy and a communicant, who shares information in confidence. When applied, neither the minister nor the \"penitent\" can be forced to testify in court, by deposition, or other legal proceedings, about the contents of the communication. Most US states provide the privilege, typically in rules of evidence or civil procedure, and the confidentiality privilege has also been extended to non-catholic clergy and non-Sacramental counseling.\n\nOriginally created to respond to physical abuse, reporting systems in various countries have expanded the reportable incidents, when it was recognised that sexual and emotional abuse, neglect, and exposure to domestic abuse also have profound impacts on children's wellbeing. Critics of investigations into reports of child abuse state that\nCritics state that mandatory reporting may also\nThey also state that mandatory reporting laws have had unintended consequences for the accused. Individuals, including juveniles, who have never been convicted of anything may be placed on CPS Central Registries/databases (different from Sex Abuse Registries) for decades, limiting educational and employment opportunities due to background checks. There is a 1.2–12.3% recidivism rate (repeat substantiations within 6 months of initial substantiations).\n\nSome feel that unsubstantiated rates are enormous and go beyond anything reasonably needed, and that emotions about child abuse and sensational media coverage has led to an overreaction by some professionals and citizens, who report many cases that do not amount to child abuse. Media and commentators often take the number of referrals to be synonymous with the number of cases of actual child maltreatment, which makes the problem appear larger than it actually is. Conversely, Dr. Jill McLeigh from Colorado University has stated that, in the United States, there is \"gross underreporting\" of child abuse and neglect, but she does not believe mandatory reporting laws are the appropriate way to address it. Ben Mathews of Queensland University of Technology said he had studied 10 years of data from Australia and other countries, and concluded that there were more benefits than not where reporting was compulsory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1896539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1896539", "title": "Mesne profits", "text": "Mesne profits\n\nMesne (pronounced \"mean\") profits are sums of money paid for the occupation of land to a person with right of immediate occupation, where no permission has been given for that occupation. The concept is feudal in origin, and common in countries which rely on the English legal system (including many former British colonies). The word is derived from the root word demesne.\n\nMesne profits commonly occur where a landlord has obtained an order from a court to evict a tenant, or where an individual sues to eject a \"bona fide\" landowner to whom title to land was improperly conveyed. The mesne profit represents the value (living rent-free, profits earned from the land, etc.) the ejected tenant received from the property between the time the court ordered the eviction and the time when the tenant actually left the property. Mesne profits must be drawn from the land itself, rather than improvements on it. For example, mesne profits may accrue from growing crops on land but would not generally accrue from a factory built on the land (unless there were damage to the land or improvements to the land itself such as the removal of stone from a field).\n\nA statute of limitations (usually six years) often limits the tenant-in-error's liability.\n\nCalculating mesne profits is often regulated by legislatures, but may be litigated in a court of equity. Mesne profits may be calculated, even though there may be no point in doing so (as in the case where land was flooded by a dam, and the dam is not going to be removed). In the United States, laws regulating mesne profits have been the subject of Supreme Court decisions, such as \"Green v. Biddle\", 21 U.S. 1 (1823).\n\n"}
{"id": "13903823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13903823", "title": "Ministry of National Education (Colombia)", "text": "Ministry of National Education (Colombia)\n\nThe Ministry of National Education () is the national executive ministry of the Government of Colombia responsible for overseeing the instruction and education of the Colombian people, similar to education ministries in other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "54954131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54954131", "title": "Movement for a Democratic Military", "text": "Movement for a Democratic Military\n\nThe Movement for a Democratic Military (MDM) was an antiwar and GI rights organization during the Vietnam War. Initially formed in late 1969 as a merger of sailors from San Diego and marines from the Camp Pendleton Marine Base in Oceanside, CA, it rapidly spread to a number of other cities and bases in California and the mid-West, including San Francisco, Long Beach Naval Station, El Toro Marine Air Station, Fort Ord, Fort Carson and the Great Lakes Naval Training Center. Heavily influenced by the Black Panther Party and the Black militancy of the times., it became one of the more radical GI organizations during that era and was investigated in 1971 by the House Committee on Internal Security (formally HUAC). As with much of the GI movement during this era, chapters had a high turnover as members were transferred, discharged and disciplined by the military. By late 1970 several chapters had splintered or disbanded, but the group's name and demands proved popular within the GI resistance movement overall. Some chapters continued through 1971 and 1972 and one until 1975.\n\nMDM started at the civilian supported \"Green Machine\" antiwar coffeehouse in Vista, CA not far from Camp Pendleton. It began as a merger of a small group of sailors in San Diego called GI's Against Fascism and a larger group of marines at Camp Pendleton. The San Diego group already had a newspaper called \"Duck Power\" and the marines began by publishing a newspaper called \"Attitude Check\" whose first issue, dated November 1, 1969, announced that it was \"written by marines and ex-marines for the benefit of the common snuffy, grunt, and em.\" The organization seemed to hit a nerve among local marines and sailors and on December 14 in nearby Oceanside an estimated 1,000 Black, White and Chicano GIs were among 4,000 who participated in an antiwar march and rally with speeches by Donald W. Duncan, Captain Howard Levy, Angela Davis and a number of active duty GIs.\n\nAt this rally, MDM's spokespeople presented and explained the organization's Preamble and 12 Demands, which had also been published simultaneously in the December 1, 1970 issues of \"Duck Power\" and \"Attitude Check\". The Preamble stated \"that ending the suppression of the American serviceman is an important part of a larger struggle for basic human rights\" and pledged \"support for the self-determination of all peoples.\" It ended, \"We have been silent for a long time. We will be silent no longer.\"\n\nThe 12 demands included: An immediate end to the Vietnam War, collective bargaining for GIs, \"human and constitutional rights [for] military men and women,\" the ending of censorship and intimidation within the military, the abolition of \"mental and physical cruelty in military brigs, correctional custodies, and basic training\", doing away with the \"court-martial and non-judicial punishment systems,\" \"wages equal to the federal minimum wage,\" \"the abolition of the class structure of the military,\" an end to \"all racism everywhere,\" the freeing of all political prisoners, including Eldridge Cleaver and Huey Newton,\" an end to \"the glorification of war,\" and the abolition of the draft.\n\nThe pre-existing group of sailors in San Diego called \"GI's Against Fascism\" merged with the group at Camp Pendleton. They all agreed to use the MDM name while publishing two newspapers, \"Duck Power\" in San Diego and \"Attitude Check\" at Pendleton. In mid-1970 the San Diego chapter changed the name of their newspaper to \"Dare to Struggle\" which they continued to publish until mid-1971. \"Attitude Check's\" last issue was in June 1970. The Camp Pendleton and San Diego areas were very pro-military and the MDM members located there experienced significant hostility and harassment. The San Diego area MDM had close ties with the San Diego Free Press which helped them put out their newspapers.\n\nBy early 1970 MDM had spread to several other cities and military bases. In January, a chapter formed at the Great Lakes naval base, located north of Chicago, IL, the largest U.S. Navy training base and the only boot camp for naval enlistees. Aided by activists with the Wisconsin Draft Resistance and the Chicago Area Military Project, a counseling service and coffeehouse, this chapter was one of the most active and included a considerable number of black sailors. They began publishing \"The Navy Times Are Changing\" which continued until the end of 1972. On Armed Forces Day in May 1970 they sponsored a rally near the base which attracted 50 sailors and nearly 500 civilians. Another rally in September of that same year \"drew a crowd of over five hundred sailors and civilians.\" When four Black WAVES were illegally arrested by base commanders in July 1970, more than 100 sailors marched to where the women were being held and surrounded the building, refusing to move until the women were released. Within weeks of this incident, over 900 enlisted men and women were discharged or transferred to other bases by the navy. On Armed Forces Day in 1972, MDM and the Chicago Area Military Project organized a large demonstration with 400 GIs joining a crowd of over 2,000.\n\nTom Csekey, one of the sailors who founded \"GI's Against Fascism\" in San Diego traveled to San Francisco and helped form two chapters of MDM in the Bay Area. There was a short-lived chapter at Fort Ord near Monterey, CA which published the \"Right-On Post\" from May to August 1970. And a San Francisco Bay Area chapter with members from the Alameda Naval Air Station, Treasure Island, San Francisco and other military bases, which published their newspaper \"Up Against the Bulkhead\" regularly from 1970 to 1972 and then sporadically until to 1975. The \"Up Against the Bulkhead\" paper and staff played an important role in helping sailors from the organize a November 6, 1971 antiwar demonstration in San Francisco involving over 300 men from the ship. This chapter was the longest lasting MDM organization and their newspaper was one of the more professional and widely distributed.\n\nIn July 1970 another chapter formed at the El Toro Marine air base in Orange County, CA. They published a newspaper called \"Pay Back\" consistently until the end of 1970 and then sporadically for another year.\n\nIn mid-1970 a group of GI from the Fort Carson army base near Colorado Springs, CO began to meet and publish a newspaper called \"Counter Attack\". They were supported by the \"Homefront\" GI coffeehouse. As with all the other chapters, they experienced a high turnover rate and disbanded by mid-1971.\n\nMDM was more disciplined than most other GI resistance organizations of the period. At a June 1970 regional conference involving chapters from Camp Pendleton, San Diego, the Bay Area, Fort Ord, Long Beach, and El Toro the members approved 16 strict \"Rules for MDM Members\". These included no narcotics or marijuana, no racism, no male chauvinism or sexism, no criminal activity or stealing from the people, putting the interests and needs of the people before personal pleasure, mandatory participation in political education classes, no misuse of funds, and instructions that if arrested members were to give only name, rank, and serial number.\n\nSome critics of MDM have argued that their 12 demands, if implemented \"would have rendered the U.S. military totally ineffective as a fighting force.\" In an interview in January 1971 in The Marine Corps Gazette, Marine commandant general Leonard F. Chapman Jr. said MDM was \"a serious threat to the defense of this country.\"\n\nThe House Committee on Internal Security investigated MDM and the broader GI movement. They concluded that the GI Movement \"is the organized efforts by relatively small numbers of GIs and pseudo pacifist civilians to enlist and engage the participation by United States armed services personnel in the so-called peace movement.\" A witness before the committee described MDM's efforts at Fort Ord as follows: \n\nThe general purpose of the MDM was to recruit soldiers, to propagandize them, to encourage them to file for conscientious objector status, to hold demonstrations enlisting their sympathy against the Army and the establishment, to conduct…certain operations aimed at distributing propaganda literature upon the military reservation illegally, and to disrupt in general and neutralize the effectiveness of Fort Ord as a military training base.\n\nOther observers agreed that MDM was on the more radical end of the GI movement but were more favorable. One scholar observed that MDM viewed \"the war in a much broader context of military and social oppression that MDM hoped to eradicate. For many groups on the Left, ending the Vietnam conflict was a liberal issue in comparison to the more revolutionary goal of transforming American society. For members of the armed forces facing the prospect of combat in Southeast Asia, ending the war was a critical issue. The MDM demands, framed as they were in broad social and political terms, reflect a strong Left political influence on at least some of the GI antiwar groups.\" The \"Stanford Daily\" viewed MDM as a lifeline to the GIs: \"These men have already suffered the dehumanization process of boot camp and many of them are being prepared for Viet Nam. They were living a nightmare of which there was little relief until MDM developed.\"\n\nMDM itself was quite upfront with its radicalism. As the August 1970 \"Right-on Post\" newspaper published at Fort Ord put it: \n\nThe goal of MDM as an organization is to educate GIs to the real causes of their oppression, and to help them move to put an end to the problem. Through a black-brown-white coalition, we will educate one another, struggle together and defend one another. Rising as one, with clenched fists, we will break the man's chains. We are not afraid of the man's stockades; we've been there. The Vietnamese freedom fighters have shown us the way: a united force of brothers and sisters determined to free themselves can defeat the U.S. military monster.\n\nSeveral of the MDM chapters and their affiliated GI coffeehouses experienced legal and non-legal harassment from the pro-military towns where they were located and even violent attacks from right-wing organizations. In one instance, the \"Green Machine\" coffeehouse near Camp Pendleton was shot up on April 29, 1970 with 45 caliber machine gun fire, wounding one of the marines inside in the shoulder. A clandestine paramilitary right-wing group called the Secret Army Organization was suspected. Another involved the San Diego Chapter on February 8, 1970. According to the lawyer and author Mark Lane, the San Diego Police and Navy Shore Patrol\n\n\"smashed down the door of a San Diego store front…to break up a peaceful meeting of Marines, Sailors and civilians.\" This was preceded by \"several hours of terror on the streets in the vicinity by the local and military police during which civilians were threatened and detained by the cops and GI's were taken into custody, physically pushed around and finally arrested on non-existent charges.\"\n\nMDM may have been the most radical of the GI antiwar and military resistance organizations of significant size during the Vietnam War. It has been estimated that they had between five thousand and ten thousand members and they had viable chapters in over half-a-dozen military bases and cities. Their stand against the Vietnam War, their call for self-determination of all peoples and their opposition to discrimination and racism proved popular with a segment of GI, particularly minority GIs, as was the idea of democratizing the military. The military considered them a serious threat. With the transfer and discharge of many of its most active members, chapters were hard to sustain and by the end of the Vietnam War, MDM's last remaining chapter dissolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "18462699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18462699", "title": "My Traitor's Heart", "text": "My Traitor's Heart\n\nMy Traitor's Heart is an autobiographical book by Rian Malan first published in 1990 on his return from exile. It is subtitled South African Exile Returns to Face His Country, His Tribe and His Conscience or \"Blood and Bad Dreams: A South African Exile Explores the Madness in His Country, His Tribe and Himself\".\n\nThe book describes Malan's experience of growing up in Apartheid-era South Africa in which he explores race relations through prominent murder cases. In addition, he reflects on the history of his family, a prominent Afrikaner clan that migrated to the Cape in the 17th century and included Daniel François Malan, the South African Prime Minister who was a principal ideological force behind Apartheid doctrine.\n\nThe book became a best-seller, was translated into 11 languages and was still in print 14 years later. It has been called brilliant.\n"}
{"id": "46316162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46316162", "title": "Operation Scarlift", "text": "Operation Scarlift\n\nOperation Scarlift (also known as Project 500 or The Bond Issue Program) was a program carried out by the Pennsylvania government in the 1960s and 1970s. Its mission was to repair environmental damage caused by abandoned mine lands, acid mine drainage, and other issues associated with historic mining. The operation began around the time that the Land and Water Conservation and Reclamation Act was passed and became inactive in the 1970s due to a lack of funding. During the operation, a total of $141,000,000 was spent on a variety of tasks, including remedying pollution in hundreds of streams, extinguishing dozens of mine fires, and constructing acid mine drainage treatment plants. Numerous reports on mining-impacted streams were produced during the operation, many of which continue to be used for assessing watersheds.\n\nOn May 16, 1967, voters in Pennsylvania approved a $500 million bond issue for the purpose of resolving environmental problems. In 1968, Pennsylvania passed the Land and Water Conservation and Reclamation Act, which was the first act in the United States concerning abandoned mine reclamation. It was this act that led to the formation of Operation Scarlift to repair damage caused by abandoned mines. A chunk of the money from the $500 million bond issue was used to fund the operation.\n\nOperation Scarlift is so-named because of its mission to remove the \"scars\" left by historical mining activities in Pennsylvania.\n\nThe purpose of Operation Scarlift was to remedy the environmental damage that historic mining in Pennsylvania has caused to the land, water, and air. The operation carried out abandoned mine reclamation projects. These projects addressed such environmental issues as abandoned strip mines, open underground mine shafts, burning refuse banks, mine fires, identifying and gathering data on acid mine drainage sites across Pennsylvania. The operation built a series of lime neutralization stations to remedy acid mine drainage. Additionally, it produced dozens of studies on mining-impacted areas, including watersheds and mine complexes. These reports were created between 1968 and 1982.\n\nThe actions taken by Operation Scarlift used a total of $141,000,000. It used the money to carry out 500 stream pollution abatement projects, eliminate 150 areas of mine subsidence, extinguish 75 mine fires, and alleviate air pollution at 30 burning refuse banks. Between 1968 and 1981, approximately $78,000,000 were spent on remedying stream pollution and approximately $64,000,000 was spent on the other tasks carried out by the operation. By 1976, of streams had been made free of pollution by the operation and another had had their pollution levels reduced. A total of 32 deep mine complexes were sealed and were reclaimed.\n\nOperation Scarlift was first administered by the Department of Mines and Mineral Industries. Later, that role passed to the Pennsylvania Department Environmental Resources (now known as the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection). Operation Scarlift became inactive in the 1970s after using up all the money provided by its revenue bond.\n\nOperation Scarlift had two main methods for remedying stream pollution by acid mine drainage. These methods were source correction and treatment. Source correction methods in deep mines included deep mine sealing and reducing the flow of surface water into deep mines. The operation also carried out various source correction procedures on strip mines and refuse banks. Where source correction was impractical, treatment was used instead. Treatment sometimes used lime or limestone and was successful at reducing acidity and iron concentrations. However, due to the high cost involved, the operation rarely attempted to treat high sulfate concentrations except when remedying pollution in sources of potable water. Nevertheless, several chemical treatment plants were constructed, and were largely successful. However, several were shut down due to the high cost involved in maintaining them. In the 1980s, some of the remaining funds were used to attempt to construct passive treatment systems such as aerobic and anaerobic wetlands and ponds. However, these systems were mostly ineffective.\n\nWhile Operation Scarlift was underway, the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection periodically created updates on the status of the operation. These updates were known as Bond Issue Report and the last one was published in 1990. It serves as a historical summary of the operation's work.\n\nOperation Scarlift has been described as achieving \"limited success\" with acid mine drainage abatement. Despite being several decades old, the information in the reports produced by Operation Scarlift \"still provides much valuable background information for groups assessing their watershed\", as described by the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Clearinghouse. A number of the reports on mining-impacted watersheds \"remain the best descriptions and outlines of the AMD problems in the watersheds\". The reports were scanned and digitized in the 2000s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2678941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2678941", "title": "Peace Prize of the German Book Trade", "text": "Peace Prize of the German Book Trade\n\nThe Peace Prize of the German Book Trade () is an international peace prize given yearly at the Frankfurt Book Fair in the Paulskirche in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. It has been awarded by the Börsenverein des Deutschen Buchhandels since 1950 and the winner is remunerated with .\n\nAccording to its statute, “(t)he foundation is committed to peace, humanity and understanding among all peoples and nations of the world. The Peace Prize promotes international tolerance by acknowledging individuals who have contributed to these ideals through their exceptional activities, especially in the fields of literature, science and art. Prize winners are chosen without any reference to their national, racial or religious background.\"\n\nTraditionally, the President of Germany and leading political, cultural and diplomatic persons attend the ceremony and ZDF TV covers the event.\n\nSource:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54512876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54512876", "title": "Policy Studies Organization", "text": "Policy Studies Organization\n\nPolicy Studies Organization is an academic organization whose purpose is to advance the study of policy analysis by publishing academic journals and book series, sponsoring conferences and producing programs.\n\nIn 1972, the Policy Studies Organization formed out of the American Political Science Association to focus on important public policy issues. Some of the goals of the PSO was to sponsor conferences, obtain discounts for subscriptions and books, and encourage panels conventions both regionally and nationally. The Policy Studies Journal was also established alongside the PSO to focus on policy matters like environmental protection, education, peace, and civil liberties.\n\nThe Policy Studies Organization sponsors conferences year round to promote multidisciplinary conversations of relevant policy issues. The goal of these events is to encourage NGOs, government officials, students, academics, and the general public to engage in dialogues about on-going policy concerns. These conferences are co-sponsored by the American Public University System. The following are conferences held by the PSO annually:\n\n\nA key component of the Policy Studies Organization is its publications. Through its journals, book series, and open access journals, the PSO aims to disseminate policy scholarship. Many of the journals are published through Wiley-Blackwell or through open access. The PSO also publishes antiquated and original books through its own Westphalia Press imprint; titles range on subjects like history, art, politics, and the government.\n\n\n\nThe current president of the PSO is Paul Rich. Past presidents include: James Anderson, Walter Beach, William Browne, William Crotty, Kenneth Dolbeare, Yehezkel Dror, William Dunn, Thomas Dye, Matthew Holden, Richard Hula, Helen Ingram, Dorothy James, Charles Jones, Rita Mae Kelly, Robert Lane, Martin Levin, Robert Lineberry, Theodore Lowi, Duncan Macrae, Jr., Dean Mann, Daniel Mazmanian, Guy Peters, Harrell Rogers, Thomas Vocino, Larry Wade, Carol Weiss, Louise White, Aaron Wildavsky.\n\n"}
{"id": "10353408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10353408", "title": "Prevalence of circumcision", "text": "Prevalence of circumcision\n\nThe prevalence of circumcision is the percentage of males in a given population who have been circumcised. The rates vary widely by country, from virtually 0% in Honduras, to 7% in Spain, to 20% in the United Kingdom, to 45% in South Africa, to 80% in the United States, to over 90% in many Muslim-majority countries. In 2007, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated 33% of adult males worldwide (aged 15+) are circumcised, with about two-thirds of those being Muslims.\n\nMale circumcision is nearly universal in the Muslim world and in Israel due to the religious beliefs of the majority of Muslims and Jews; however, some non-Muslim groups living within Muslim-majority countries, such as Armenians and Assyrians, do not practise it. It is prevalent in some Muslim-majority countries in southeast Asia such as Indonesia and Malaysia; however, the WHO states that there is \"little non-religious circumcision in Asia, with the exceptions of the Republic of Korea and the Philippines\". In parts of Africa it is often practised as part of tribal or religious customs. The prevalence of circumcision is also high in the United States, although there has been a slight (~6%) decrease in routine neonatal circumcision in recent years.\n\nIn contrast, rates are much lower in most of Europe, parts of southern Africa, most of Asia, Oceania and Latin America, constituting South America, Central America, the Caribbean and Mexico.\n\nAustralia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand and the United Kingdom are examples of countries that have seen a decline in male circumcision in recent decades, while there have been indications of increasing demand in southern Africa, partly for preventive reasons due to the HIV epidemic there.\n\nStudies indicate that about 62% of African males are circumcised. However, the rate varies widely between different regions, and among ethnic and religious groups, with Muslim North Africans practising it for religious reasons, central Africans as part of tribal rituals or local custom, (with some practising female genital mutilation as well) and some traditionally non-circumcising populations in the South recently adopting the practice due to measures by the World Health Organisation to prevent AIDS.\nWilliams, B.G. \"et al.\" commented that: \"Most of the currently available data on the prevalence of [male circumcision] are several decades old, while several of the recent studies were carried out as adjuncts to demographic and health surveys and were not designed to determine the prevalence of [male circumcision].\"\n\nBotswana, Rwanda, Swaziland, Zimbabwe.\n\nAngola, Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo (Rep), Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia.\n\nIt is estimated that 44.7% of males are circumcised in South Africa. One national study reported that 48.2% of black Africans were circumcised, with 32.1% of those traditionally circumcised and 13.4% circumcised for medical reasons.\n\nBenin, Burkin Faso, Cameroon, Congo (Dem Rep), Cote d’Ivoire, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Togo.\n\nArgentina, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto Rico, The Bahamas, Trinidad and Tobago, Uruguay, Venezuela.\n\nThe overall prevalence of circumcision is reported to be 6.9% in Colombia, and 7.4% in Brazil (13% in Rio de Janeiro), with most of those being done due to medical issues later in life.\n\nThe prevalence of circumcision in Mexico is estimated to be 10% to 31%.\n\nCanada, United States.\n\nCircumcision in Canada followed the pattern that existed in other English speaking countries, picking up the practice during the 1900s to prevent masturbation and other perceived issues of the time, and then had its rate of circumcision decline due to new policy statements passed and due to coverage for the procedure being dropped, with a pattern of declining incidence of circumcision occurring from 1970 to 1979 after a new policy statement was released In 1975. The Canadian Paediatric Society offered an estimate of 48 percent for the prevalence of male circumcision in Canada in 1970 prior to this fall in prevalence. However, when conducting new studies to determine is prevalence in 1977-1978 There was a wide variation in the incidence of circumcision between different provinces and territories. For Example, Yukon reported a rate of 74.8 percent in while Newfoundland reported an incidence of 1.9 to 2.4 percent in 1977-78. The rate continued to drop, with the newborn circumcision rate in Ontario In 1994-95 dropping to 29.9%.\n\nA survey of Canadian maternity practices conducted in 2006/2007 and published in 2009 by the national public health agency found a newborn circumcision rate of 31.9%. Rates varied markedly across the country, from close to zero in Newfoundland and Labrador to 44.3% in Alberta. In 2015, the Canadian Paediatric Society used those statistics in determining their national circumcision rate, with that being the one which is currently used.\n\nThe Centers For Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) uses two data sources to track circumcision rates. The first is the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES), which records circumcisions performed at any time at any location. The second is the National Hospital Discharge Survey (NHDS), which does not record circumcisions performed outside the hospital setting or those performed at any age following discharge from the birth hospitalization.\n\nBased off NHANES data, the CDC estimated that 80.5% of American males aged 14 to 59 years old from 2005 to 2010 were circumcised. Among racial breakdown, 90.8% of non-Hispanic white males, 75.7% of non-Hispanic black, and 44% of Mexican American males from that same age group and time span were circumcised.\n\nBased off NHDS data, the CDC reported a national decline in circumcision rates of newborns, from 64.5% to 58.3%, during the 32-year period from 1972 to 2010. Trends varied regionally, with the Midwest mirroring the national trend; in the Northeast there was no discernible trend in the 32-year period; the South experienced an increase in circumcision rates from 1979 until 1998 and then a decline until 2010; finally, the West saw a decrease of 37% during the period in question, with the biggest drop happening in the 1980's, continuing with a slower decrease until 2010. The decline is in large part due to the growing Hispanic population. It is increasingly common due do increasing health care costs that health care providers require the mother and baby to leave the hospital within 24 hours after birth without complications. As a result, a large number of circumcisions are performed in out-patient clinics and are not recorded in the NHDS data.\n\nIn 2009, the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP) reported its findings regarding newborn circumcisions based on U.S. region and income bracket. Its data came from several states' hospital associations and health departments. The Western Region reported a rate of 24.6%, the North Central Region reported a rate of 76.2%, the Northeast Region reported a rate of 67%, and the Southern Region reported a rate of 55.7%. The combined newborn circumcision rate of all regions was 54.5%, which is similar but slightly lower than the NHDS data from 2010. There was also significant variation between rural and urban areas. Rural areas reported a rate of 66.9%, while urban areas reported a rate of 41.2%. The lowest income bracket reported a rate of 51.5%, while the highest income bracket reported a rate of 60.4%.\n\nMedicaid funding for infant circumcision used to be available in every state, but starting with California in 1982, 18 states (Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Idaho, Louisiana, Maine, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Montana, Nevada, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oregon, South Carolina, Utah, and Washington) had eliminated Medicaid coverage of routine (non-therapeutic) circumcision by July 2011. One study in the Midwest of the U.S. found that this had no effect on the newborn circumcision rate but it did affect the demand for circumcision at a later time. Another study, published in early 2009, found a difference in the neonatal male circumcision rate of 24% between states with and without Medicaid coverage. The study was controlled for other factors such as the percentage of Hispanic patients. Other studies have shown that the rise of immigrants from East Asia, Southeast Asian, South Asia and Hispanic South American countries are a large factor in why the rates continue to drop in the US.\n\nCircumcision was the second-most common procedure performed on patients under one year of age. There are various explanations for why the infant circumcision rate in the United States is different from comparable countries. Many parents’ decisions about circumcision are preconceived, which may contribute to the high rate of elective circumcision. Brown & Brown (1987) reported the most important factor is whether the father is circumcised.\n\nBhutan, Burma, China, Cambodia, India, Japan, Laos, Mongolia, Nepal, North Korea, Papua New Guinea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam.\n\nThe overall prevalence of circumcision in Cambodia is reported to be 3.5%.\n\nThe overall prevalence of circumcision in China is reported to be 14%.\n\nIndonesia, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Pakistan and South Korea.\n\nCircumcision is largely a modern-day phenomenon in South Korea. While the rate in the twentieth century has been nearing 80%, virtually no circumcision was performed just a century ago, as it was against Korea's long and strong tradition of preserving the body as a gift from parents. A 2001 study of 20-year-old South Korean men found that 78% were circumcised. At the time, the authors commented that \"South Korea has possibly the largest absolute number of teenage or adult circumcisions anywhere in the world. Because circumcision started through contact with the American military during the Korean War, South Korea has an unusual history of circumcision.\" According to a 2002 study, 86.3% of South Korean males aged 14–29 were circumcised. In 2012, it's the case of 75.8% of the same age group. Only after 1999 has some information against circumcision become available (at the time of the 2012 study, only 3% of Korean internet sites, using the most popular Korean search engine Naver, are against indiscriminate circumcision and 97% are for). The authors of the study speculate \"that the very existence of information about the history of Korean circumcision, its contrary nature relative to a longstanding tradition, its introduction by the US military, etc., has been extremely influential on the decision-making process regarding circumcision.\"\n\nAfghanistan, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Brunei, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lebanon, Oman, Israel, West Bank, the Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, United Arab Emirates, Yemen.\n\nThe overall prevalence of circumcision (\"tuli\") in the Philippines is reported to be 92.5%. Most circumcisions in the Philippines are performed between the ages of 11 to 13.\n\nArmenia, Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, The Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Spain, Serbia, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, and the United Kingdom.\n\nA national survey on sexual attitudes in 2000 found that 15.8% of men or boys in the United Kingdom (ages 16–44) were circumcised by their parents' choosing. 11.7% of 16- to 19-year-olds, and 19.6% of 40- to 44-year-olds said they had been circumcised. Apart from black Caribbeans, men born overseas were more likely to be circumcised. Rickwood \"et al.\" reported that the proportion of English boys circumcised for medical reasons had fallen from 35% in the early 1930s to 6.5% by the mid-1980s. An estimated 3.8% of male children in the UK in 2000 were being circumcised by the age of 15. The researchers stated that too many boys, especially under the age of 5, were still being circumcised because of a misdiagnosis of phimosis. They called for a target to reduce the percentage to 2%.\n\nIn Finland, the overall prevalence of circumcision is 2-4%, according to a recent publication by the Finnish Health Ministry.\n\nIn Germany, the German Health Interview and Examination Survey for Children and Adolescents found that 10.9% of boys aged 0–17 had been circumcised.\n\nIn France, according to a telephone survey (TNS Sofres Institute, 2008), 14% of men are circumcised.\n\nThe overall prevalence of circumcision in Spain is reported to be 6.6%.\n\nIn 1986, 511 out of approximately 478,000 Danish boys aged 0–14 years were circumcised. This corresponds to a cumulative national circumcision rate of around 1.6% by the age of 15 years.\n\nIn Slovenia, a 1999-2001 national probability sample of the general population aged 18–49 years found that overall, 4.5% of Slovenian male citizens reported being circumcised. Prevalence strongly varied across religious groups, with 92.4% of Muslims being circumcised, 1.7% of Roman Catholics, 0% of other religious affiliations (Evangelic, Serbian Orthodox, other), and 7.1% of those with no religious affiliation.\n\nAlbania, Kosovo, Republic of Macedonia, and Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nIn Albania during the years 2008-09 the percentage of men age 15-49 who reported having been circumcised was 47.7%.\n\nAndorra, Croatia and Luxembourg are listed as unknown on the WHO prevalence map. Liechtenstein, Malta, Monaco, San Marino and Vatican City are unclear from the map.\n\nCircumcision reached its peak in Australia in the 1950s with a rate of more than 80%, but has steadily fallen to an estimated 26% in 2012. The rate of circumcision has dropped rapidly over the years. It is estimated that males aged roughly 80 percent of males 35 and under are intact, and remaining 20 percent are circumcised. Circumcision rates have declined drastically in recent years as young fathers are starting to have children of their own and leaving them intact.\n\nThe Australian Longitudinal Study of Health and Relationships is a computer assisted telephone interview of males aged 16–64 that uses a nationally representative population sample. In 2005 the interview found that the prevalence of circumcision in Australia was roughly 58%. Circumcision status was more common with males over 30 than males under 30, and more common with males who were born in Australia. 66% of males born in Australia were circumcised and less than 1/3 of males under 30 were circumcised. There has been a decline in the rate of infant circumcision in Australia. The Royal Australasian College of Physicians (RACP) estimated in 2010 that 10 to 20 percent of newborn boys are being circumcised, but the prevalence of male circumcision is much higher due to the presence of older circumcised males remaining in the population. Medicare Australia records show the number of males younger than six months that underwent circumcision dropped from 19,663 in 2007/08 to 6309 (4%) in 2016/17.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organisation, fewer than 20% of males are circumcised in New Zealand in 2007. In New Zealand routine circumcision for which there is no medical indication is uncommon and no longer publicly funded within the public hospital system. In a study of men born in 1972–1973 in Dunedin, 40.2% were circumcised. In a study of men born in 1977 in Christchurch, 26.1% were circumcised. A 1991 survey conducted in Waikato found that 7% of male infants were circumcised.\n\nCircumcision for cultural reasons is routine in Pacific Island countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "11035414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11035414", "title": "Public/social/private partnership", "text": "Public/social/private partnership\n\nPublic/social/private partnerships are methods of co-operation between private and government bodies.\n\nThe name “public social private partnership” (PSPP) is a development of Public Private Partnership (PPP).\n\nPPP is one expression of a strong trend towards (re)privatisation, which in some European countries has arisen as a result of more difficult economic conditions in recent years and the associated structural crisis in the public sector (see Eschenbach, Müller, Gabriel: 1993). \n\nThe growth in public-private partnerships as a way of fulfilling public tasks in partnership between the state administration and private enterprises must be seen in this context.\n\nIn political discussions, lack of public funds is often put forward as a limit on state activities. Instead of financing infrastructure projects alone, the government increasingly looks to cooperations with private investors. Also, the EU policy on competitive tendering of public works and services has forced changes towards a more market-oriented approach to delivering tasks for which the state is responsible. Another relevant factor are the arguments in debates on privatisation that state bodies are inefficient and that management concepts typical in the commercial sector should be used to achieve more cost-effective provision of public services.\nAll these factors taken together result in a shift away from a role of the state as “producer” towards one as “quality assurer” and a trend away from collective, tax-based financing of infrastructure to financing models in which these are paid for by their users (see Budäus 2006).\n\nThe term PPP has gained currency for this increased cooperation of government with private partners in the German-speaking countries since about the middle of the 1990s. \n\nPublic private partnership contrasted with conventional provision of public services\nPPPs can be said to differ from other forms of provision of public services in the following 3 points:\n\n\nIn the social services sector, PPPs have been implemented mainly in the health services and overseas development until now. As current discussions about PPPs in the social services sector show (see e.g. the EQUAL development partnership “Public Social Private Partnership” ; workshop at the University of Cologne, Germany “PPP in social and educational services”, March 2006; Conference: “Partnerships in Work Integration: Added Value for Enterprises?”, Zürich, Switzerland, October 2005), this sector has special requirements and will need special conditions and criteria for possible PPPs. The definition of goals is a particularly central and sensitive issue in finding a suitable form and modalities of implementation of PPPs in this area. Existing types of PPP will likely need to be modified to include extra mechanisms and criteria in order to function adequately in social services. \n\nIn other words, public social private partnership (PSPP) is not merely an extension of the PPP idea, but a precondition for ensuring that a PPP with a social goal: \n\nFor the state side of the partnership the redefinition from PPP to PSPP means that mid- to long-term solutions are found for functions that the state needs to fulfil for reasons of the common good or welfare provision. By addressing state functions in the form of partnerships, the state partner gains options for action: firstly through a cooperative form of outsourcing (including financing) and secondly by involving additional partners from private enterprise and social enterprise in doing things which the state has responsibility for. Both of these aspects allow the state to do its job in a more rounded, professional and sustainable way by bringing in additional finance, expertise and practical resources. \n\nFor private enterprises, PSPP opens up possibilities for new kinds of business activity through the cooperation with the state and social enterprise. \n\nPSPPs offer social enterprises an opportunity to act in their ideal role of intermediaries between the state and private sectors, helping to make sure that each partner’s contribution to the project is in an area where they have special competence. This reduces the risks for all partners. The social enterprise partners stand to gain from a PSPP in terms of planning, development and quality due to the mid- and long-term nature of the projects. \n\nFinally, for target groups of disadvantaged people, PSPPs can mean the assurance of services that they need, and that the welfare state has led them to expect; and also, mid- and long-term PSPPs have the chance to anticipate future needs and develop innovative solutions and services. \n\nTo summarize, application of a PPP model to fulfilling social aims for people in disadvantaged situations naturally leads to expansion of the PPP to a PSPP. PSPP rather than PPP criteria become applicable when public aims such as the common good and welfare are being pursued. In this area, all the mid- and long-term indicators of success belonging to the agendas and goals of the cooperation depend on the correct adherence to PSPP specifications.\n\nObserving the discussions among representatives of social enterprise on the issue of “public social private partnership”, it becomes apparent that it is necessary to distinguish between a broad and a narrow definition. The definition can be regarded as a basis on which a specification is to be constructed.\nPSPP in the broad definition covers, like PPP, cooperation models between the participants. In the case of public social private partnership these are not only agencies of the state and private enterprises (as in PPP) but also social enterprises and social economic organizations. The focus is on the partnership formed between the participating organizations and enterprises with the aim of working out and implementing social aims.\nThe two main characteristics of a PSPP in the broad definition are therefore:\n\nThe specification of the PSPP model makes sense because of the needs of disadvantaged people and of the social economy and also those of the state and private enterprise mentioned above. In order to ensure that disadvantaged people are not excluded completely or partially from social participation, their needs must be supplied long-term and uninterruptedly. To do this, the relevant social services must be provided. This can only be guaranteed through longer-term financing. \nFor that reason, the narrow definition of “public social private partnership” picks up on the financing aspect of the functional description of PPP and attempts to see how this can be harnessed for social interests. Also in this case the partnership aspect is important (see below), and only through it can the long-term nature and opening up of new fields of action be achieved. \n\nA PSP partnership is thus related to a specific field of activity and has the explicit purpose of assuring long-term financing and generation of resources for products and services in order to fulfil purposes of social protection, support and improvement of opportunities for disadvantaged people or groups of disadvantaged people: PPP as a financing and resource-generating instrument becomes PSPP in this case. \n\nThe following three main characteristics make up a public social private partnership:\n\nWhile PPPs as described in the literature as being used to execute public tasks in general, in PSPP the scope is narrowed to specifically social topics.\nIn order to act in the interest of social protection and support, i.e. to provide social services or introduce social products, in many cases it is necessary to set up and operate infrastructure. \nPSPP projects therefore aim at financing infrastructure that is used to realize social services and products. In this respect PSPPs do the same thing as PPP projects, which are also usually set up to finance infrastructure.\nTo provide social services it may not always be necessary to set up infrastructure on a large scale, but it is always necessary to carry out a phase of developing, planning and organizing the prerequisites for providing the social services. PSPP as a financing instrument can thus also be used to finance the development and preparation of social products and services that do not require any large infrastructure investments. \nDifferent financing instruments are used depending on whether infrastructure needs to be financed or not. \nThe PSPP characteristic “partnershaft” is also similar to a PPP. Three characteristics of PPPs identified by Budäus (2006:19) will be integrated at this point: \n\n\nAlso in this point PSPP differs from the conventional methods of delivering state services. In contrast to PPP projects, which can be formed with only two partners, “partnership” in the case of PSPP ideally involves a minimum of three partners, since there are three essential but different roles to be filled: The financing of the project, the project leadership and the demand for the social services.\n\nIn a PSPP three functions must therefore be exercised: \nAt least one of the partners ensures the financing (financing level), at least one of the partners takes on the overall responsibility for the project and thus leads the coordination of the project from planning through setting-up and realization of the social product or service (project leadership) and at least one of the partners ensures the flow of funds into the project by buying the product or service (so also contributing to the financing). \nThese three functions are – as described under roles and functions – ideally taken on by three partner enterprises and/or organizations that have the relevant competences and responsibilities. As a minimum, the synergies can also be created between two partner enterprises or organizations, so long as the three functions are present. \nIn this way, a PSPP partnership is a partnership between two levels: the financing and the practical level.\n\nAccording to their historically conditioned self-understanding, contemporary European states have highly diverse tasks. A centrally important role is the social interest in various protective functions and activities. Besides the basic function of the state and community to stabilize or if possible to improve socially precarious or unstable conditions, the state has the duty to protect the weak and endangered at all levels of state activity, i.e. by law, in the justice system and in the administration.\n\nTypical areas in which the state intervenes to protect people in weaker positions are consumer law, residential property rental and of course social law. The way the state(s) go about implementing these measures has to be seen against the background of the whole legal framework; the legal principles and practical methods involved are subject to continual theoretical (e.g. in terms of sociology, political science or philosophy) and practical (e.g. in the popular media or political interest groups) discussion. Connected to the issue of “protection” are terms such as “common good”, “human dignity”, “equality”, “welfare”, “clientele politics”, etc.\n\nIf the duty of the Hobbesian “Leviathan” to guarantee and provide protection is primarily related to individuals or subgroups of the state’s population, then the interests of social maintenance directed towards the state will focus mainly on the assurance of whole-society pluralities and minimum standards. The interest in social maintenance stands alongside the interest in protection and complements it. For example, the laws that regulate the entitlement to unemployment money belong to the “protection” sphere, whereas the laws on the activities of political parties belong to the “maintenance” sphere; the overlapping of the two spheres of interests becomes evident when various parties, according to their political programmes, (can) take influence on the laws that govern the situation of unemployed people, by changing laws through the mechanisms provided by law for creating legislation. \n\nSuch social “protection” and “maintenance” interest being addressed to the state place a duty upon it to serve these interests through legislation and in the exercise of executive power; both in the inner sphere of lawgiving, justice and administration and in the outer sphere of cooperation with non-state actors in the form of “social partnerships”.\n\nThe legal phrase “\"Gesellschaftliche Schutz- und Erhaltungsinteressen\"\", i.e. social protection and maintenance interests, only partly defines the goals of a PSPP. This needs to be expanded for the purpose of the present discussion to “activities to improve the living situation and opportunities of people and groups of people in disadvantaged circumstances”. This expansion is more specific because it refers to people. However, the question as to when people or groups of people are or become socially disadvantaged remains open.\n\nAs a point of reference for PSPP the principles of action of a democratic state should be chosen. The democratically legitimated state follows principles of the common good as a way of “guaranteeing [its citizens] optimal overall opportunities for living and expression/development” (Reinhold 2000:204). The state’s conception of what the common good is, is expressed in laws. This makes constitutions and city statutes the most suitable indicators of the smallest-common -denominator consensus as to what can be considered to be the common good in a democratically organised society. Beyond this, at any particular point in time the current government is an expression of the society’s current vision of the common good. \nIf we follow the chain of the “common good” orientation down from the national to the local level, we arrive at other structures e.g. in Austria the provinces and the local communities/municipalities, each of which has to some extent its own definition of the common good.\nIf certain people or groups of people do not have full access to the elements of what, as legitimated by the democratic legal system, is regarded as an acceptable minimum level of income, welfare, general living conditions and social participation, then we can say that they are socially disadvantaged. \n\nThe state has the task of preventing social disadvantage and therefore has a duty to intervene wherever these basic needs cannot be filled by the market alone.\nThe reactions of the so-called civil society to disadvantageous circumstances may make disadvantage visible. This is most obvious when non-governmental alternative organizations and projects are started by citizens in order to relieve the disadvantages. These could be individual citizens, social economic organizations, self-help groups, and social projects in general.\n\nWe emphasize at this point that this does not imply a normative or prescriptive definition of what should be classified as social disadvantage. A descriptive approach, which takes account of the overall social system and its mechanisms of legitimation, was chosen.\nAlso, on the descriptive level – based on this definition – diverse characteristics of people or groups of people can be described, as a consequence of which these people may be disadvantaged:\n\nThe results of empirical social research show that there are three main factors that have a stronger and more predictable effect on social standing and opportunities, and therefore potential disadvantage, than others: These factors are:\n\nBesides these, many other factors can also be important. The most often mentioned are physical and intellectual abilities, sexual orientation, age, religion and educational level (in strong correlation with social class). The list of potential factors that could contribute to social disadvantage can, however – since it depends on the dimension mentioned above, the society’s consensus on what represents the common good – never be complete, because factors that can cause disadvantage are always dependent on specific situations and issues.\n\nThe definition of aims is the heart of a PSPP. Because of this, all components of a PSPP (the interactions between the participating partner enterprises and organizations, the roles and functions in the partnership and the setting-up and practical implementation of the project) must be compatible with the specific set of aims defined by the partnership and must serve to realize these aims.\nOn the other hand, the route to realization of a specific, agreed goal and the structures that are set up to allow the project to be realized, should conform to the general definition of aims described here. This means that the structures and agreements of the partnership and the project process itself must be designed so that these also serve to improve the living situation of disadvantaged people as defined above.\n\nIn a PSPP three main roles are exercised:\n\nAll three roles can be done by different partners. But in the different sectors involved (state, social economy, private enterprise) each has its own interests and areas of competence, so that they will naturally have different interests and priorities as to the roles they wish to play in the partnership.\n\nBuilding on the previous remarks on the PPP concept and the related quality model PSPP, we can posit as a precondition for the step from a PPP to a PSPP the willingness of all parties involved to define / accept only solutions, aims and agendas that will have mid- to long-term character. (By this we do not mean that the products of the partnership could only be generated in the mid- to long-term; this is not the same thing). This applies both to the goals themselves and also in the sense that conditions should be created that make it possible for the products of the partnership to have a lasting effect.\nThis condition, arises, in contrast to a PPP, from the fact that the agendas of a PSPP are tasks and aims of the state (common good / welfare) that do not obey the laws of supply and demand. These goals and contents lie instead in the delivery of an agreed level of common good to civil society. Such fundamental social agreements are central and necessary building blocks for a social peace based on security and justice, where citizens can rely on pre-agreed levels of state functions and can set up their lives accordingly. This is a precondition for preventing people from being disadvantaged or finding themselves in living situations that tend towards them becoming disadvantaged.\nIn this way, “mid-term” PSPPs can be defined as those that have a similar lifetime to the electoral cycles of municipalities and states; any that take place on a longer time base can be called long-term (quantitatively), and can be seen as (qualitatively) supporting the long-term assurance of state supports promised in constitutions and municipal statutes.\n\nThe starting point of a PSPP is a recognition by a social enterprise of a social problem (e.g. an organization working with disabled people realizes that many people with disabilities in rural areas are faced with a problem of distance between their homes and workplaces). An idea is formed about how this problem could be solved, and the social enterprise develops a concept – drawing on their long experience and expertise in the area – for a social service, for which some infrastructure needs to be set up (e.g. sheltered accommodation close to the workplace, in which various needs, depending on gender, age or cultural background, can be catered for). In order to be able to realize the project, the social enterprise approaches a partner enterprise that could supply the necessary finance (e.g. a local bank) and brings in a state agency that has an interest in the project being done (e.g. the local social service responsible for people with disabilities, or the regional social department). This ensures the cash flow by buying the social service and makes possible a more economical financing by the commercial partner. \nThe social enterprise then plans the execution of the project, sets up if necessary a legal vehicle for the project, sets up the necessary infrastructure (builds the sheltered housing project) and realizes & runs the social service (the support of the inhabitants).\nIn this example, the order of events and some division of roles is already evident. The phases of a PSPP can be summarized again as follows:\n\nIn the needs analysis, factors that cause and/or reinforce disadvantage are researched and analysed. \n\nThe classification of the models is based on PPP models, since forms of cooperation between two partners can be taken as a starting point for forms involving three partners. The description above thus includes the models to be found in PPP practice, with the exception of the company management (Betriebsführung) and company transfer (Betriebsüberlassung) models, since in these no positive effects are to be expected if a third partner were brought in, and these forms exhibit the lowest efficiency gains of all PPPs.\n\nFinancing instruments as additional elements of PSPP:\nThe starting point of (true) factoring is a long-term contractual arrangement between the municipality and a private person, on the basis of which the private person provides a public service. Due to the assured flow of payments (payment according to time) this model could in principle be considered for all PSPPs. The factoring consists in the further stage in which the private operator / owner sells a part of the future income from the contract with the state at cash value (minus a commission) to a factoring institute and uses the price to finance the project, so that only a low level of owner’s equity is needed. (see Kirchhoff 1995). This is especially useful for medium-sized enterprises, in order to compete with the strongly capitalized large corporations. \nIn addition to the factoring by the private partner, it is not uncommon to further optimise the financing costs in PSPP by adding a guarantee given by the municipality / state authority to the other forms of security provided for loans.\nSilent partnerships involve a limited-term raising of capital by bringing in a silent partner, who normally comes in simply for the dividend. (see Kirchhoff 1995). \nIn certain models for communal social economic purposes, public financing aids in the form of reduced-interest loans or investment grants can be availed of in addition to private-sector capital and equity. The EU, the federal republic and the provinces offer grants for research, planning and implementation of communal social investments.\nSponsoring is essentially an exchange transaction (see Arnold, Maelicke 2003). The sponsor pays the sponsored organization in the form of money, in kind, or services. In return the sponsor acquires certain rights to advertise its involvement. It therefore uses the sponsored organization as an element of its advertising strategy. Both sides ought to derive benefit from the exchange.\nA further constitutive feature of sponsoring is the contractual definition of the quid pro quo. Both parties must clearly understand their contractual obligations. A written contract is not mandatory, but is much to be recommended.\nAnother possible financing method is the issuing of bonds. Investors can take out a bond with a reduced interest rate and in this way make an indirect donation to PSPP projects. Compared with typical bond schemes, whose interest levels are coupled to the credit rating of the company, and have minimum volume limits of approximately € 50 million (or € 5 million in the case of the new mid cap bonds), social bonds, with the waiver of a part of the interest by the investors, have definite advantages for social enterprises. A successful example is the “ELAG SOCIAL bond“ (ELAG=Elisabeth Liegenschafts-Entwicklungs-Aktiengesellschaft, Elisabeth Real Estate Development Stock Corporation). This stock company formed by the Caritas of the diocese of Linz and the KOOP Lebensraum Beteiligungs-AG has used the bond issue to ensure compliance with its investment rules, which specify low-risk investment, charitable-social purpose and investment in properties that should yield dividends not less than the rate of inflation.\n\nSample List of Corporations and Investors active in the financing, ownership and development of Public-Private Partnerships around the world.\n\n\nContracting-out generally means hiving off organizational units as private entities and/or purchase of services from private providers under the state contracting/tendering rules. This is the state equivalent of the already well-established trend in commercial business of outsourcing in order to concentrate on one’s core competence (see Müller, Prankebenberg 1997).\n\nThe minimal specifications of PPP as regards communal leasing mean that not all leasing activities of municipalities qualify for the title of PPPs. Especially, much product leasing, such as simple leasing of equipment without services, does not fall under the definition of PPP. The leasing variants that qualify as a form of PPP are those in which an investor chosen by competitive bidding supplies more than the mere provision of financing, e.g. by providing complementary services and taking on additional practical tasks. The private partner in such cases is responsible for major pieces of implementation of a project. (see Höftmann 2001). \nConcession models are similar to leasing models conceptually and in terms of the applicable accounting rules, but all the restrictions of leasing, particularly problems of tax and property law, are avoided. At the centre of the model is the waiver of preferential tax treatment both on the part of the project leader and the finance provider, so that in the concession model no savings can be made on the basis of taxation technicalities. The less stringent conditions for setting up such a vehicle thus have their price and are reflected in higher annual rates of rent compared to leasing (see Scheele 1993).\n\nThe basic idea of a provider model is that the municipality hands over the fulfilment of its statutory tasks to a private provider in such a way that the complete task is temporarily outsourced. The municipality private capital and expertise is brought into a project during the setting-up and operational phases, without the private partner acquiring shares in the operating company – effectively a form of limited-term privatisation (see Rudolph, Büscher 1995). \nSince the operator models with a lifetime of 20–30 years are long-term arrangements and a premature transfer back to the municipality is not possible, BOT (build, operate, transfer) models with a lifetime of three to ten years have been developed as a shorter-term variant. (see Kirchoff 1997). These are basically transitional solutions with private-sector planning and setting-up as well as temporary private-sector operation in the relatively risk-intensive early years, so that BOT models could be called short-term operator models (see Höftmann 2001).\nThe basic idea of a cooperation model is the setting-up of a private legal entity, in which both the municipality and at least one private enterprise hold shares either directly or indirectly (through an intermediate holding company). This type of mixed municipal/private, or semi-state ownership has been in common use for about 100 years, especially in utilities with a local monopoly on provision (see Hering, Matschke 1997).\n\nPSPPs offer not only opportunities but also bring risks, especially for the state partner (and their budget). Entry into a PSPP on the part of the state is based on the expectation that additional resources can be generated or mobilized in order to increase the scope of public social services.\nDue to the responsibilities of the state, the state partner must carefully evaluate what is made the subject of a PSPP – with whom, for how long and under what conditions. Long-term effects must be anticipated. The evaluation process needs comprehensive, long-term and operational criteria, quality assurance, a political decision and a critical analysis of the PSPP as to its suitability as an instrument for the intended purpose. For public institutions, a PSPP can increase the room for manoeuvre, but this process must not take place at the expense of erosion or abdication of responsibility by the state authority. \nThe state must be careful not to surrender control of activities over which it is democratically mandated to exercise adequate control. This issue is the subject of extensive discussions as it applies to PPPs: the growing influence of private actors and the correspondingly retreating influence of the state (see e.g. B. Pölzl/Preisch 2003: 41).\nThis makes it all the more important to emphasize that PSPP models should only be supported by the state in cases where they serve the long-term social needs of disadvantaged members of society. This responsibility belongs to the state and the state only.\n\nTo reap the full benefits of a PSPP for all involved parties, it must be ensured that the clear definition of social aims and partnership process on the one hand is not outweighed by the impetus to generate and mobilize resources and finance on the other hand. It is essential for the implementation of a PSPP to preserve the partnership throughout. This means that the autonomy of the social economic partners must be protected and they must not be brought into a position of such dependency by entering a PSPP that their autonomy is sacrificed or weakened. \n\nSince public goals and agendas can be matched to mid- and long-term solutions by using PSPPs, a qualitative approach can be used. \n\nSome concern about the quality of the services that are provided in the course of PPPs exists both in public opinion and among some representatives of the state sector. The specification of a PSPP in terms of the social aims (in contrast to PPPs) is a positive quality factor. Due to the orientation of the model according to these aims and the resulting processes and conditions (needs analysis and product development by experts working in the social sector, partnership principles, etc.), the model places great emphasis on the quality of implementation of the PSPP. Nonetheless, it must be said that the quality of the social products and services produced will always be the responsibility of \n\nIf the conditions for when a PSPP should be used, and the quality criteria, are respected, a PSPP can be of great benefit for the social target group it aims to help as well as for the participating organizations and enterprises.\n\nIn a PSPP, needs of disadvantaged people or groups of people that have been previously neglected can be met, or the spectrum of services available to them can be expanded. Private enterprises are usually strongly oriented towards meeting customer (consumer) demands. In a PSPP this also applies to the social enterprises, which in contrast to non-social economic enterprises and organizations exhibit a stronger responsiveness towards the needs of their clients.\n\nThe solutions developed in a PSPP can also be offered on a mid- to long-term basis and thus contribute to a sustainable establishment of new activities and structural change.\n\nFor private or social economic enterprises / organizations, the participation in a PSPP offers an expansion of their fields of business and the opportunity to become active in already established and newly developed fields as competent partners. Social economic organizations or enterprises gain an opportunity to make necessary longer-term investments which would not be possible in a conventional working relationship with the state (i.e. by simple buying of services by the state).\n\nOn the other hand, the state can make use of the specialist expertise of the social economic and private companies. This should allow all the participants to concentrate on their core competences. The state can gain an opportunity to do the tasks it is responsible for efficiently, cost-effectively and without delays due to budgetary bottlenecks.\n\nIn addition to the special benefits for disadvantaged people, the positive effects of “classical” PPPs apply (Pölzl/Preisch 2003):\n\nThe opportunities offered by PSPPs can be exploited best when the participating organizations can avail of the necessary know-how in the form of accompanying consulting and support by appropriate professionals. In Austria, even PPP is still a relatively new phenomenon – in contrast to Germany, neither a national “PPP Facilitation Act” nor PPP Task Forces to ensure professional setting up of PPPs. The expansion of the PPP concept by adding the qualitative aspect of the explicit social aims is even more dependent on competent support to implement the relatively complex projects with good quality and successfully. Not only purely private/commercial approaches on the one hand need and public administration principles, rules and procedures on the other hand need to be dealt with, but also the competences needed for the social service elements need to be fitted together suitably.\n\nFrom the point of view of social policy, PSPPs, if the procedure described is followed and needs analysis is done by social economic organizations and enterprises working in the field, can open up new fields of activity, not only for the social and private enterprises but also for the state. PSPPs are a chance for development of social services not as a purely top-down process (in which the state formulates the needs and contracts the corresponding works) but that needs can be recognized and formulated by agents and organizations of civil society and these can be met in cooperation with the state. To make use of this chance, the state must be flexible and open to innovation and the political and legal environment must be compatible with this bottom-up approach. Many established social phenomena, e.g. the Red Cross movement or the women’s emancipation movement, began in the private or civil-society spheres and were later picked up and supported by the state; and through state support, their development was importantly influenced.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2706203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2706203", "title": "Pyongyang Declaration", "text": "Pyongyang Declaration\n\nThe Pyongyang Declaration, officially titled Let Us Defend and Advance the Cause of Socialism was a statement signed by a number of parties on April 20, 1992. Representatives of 70 communist and other parties had come to Pyongyang for the celebration of Kim Il-sung's 80th birthday. While there, the delegates had many bilateral and multilateral contacts with each other and decided to issue a declaration reiterating their commitment to socialism in spite of the collapse of the USSR and a number of other communist regimes in recent years. On April 20 the declaration was signed by delegates of 70 parties, including 48 party leaders.\n\nThe following translation of the Pyongyang Declaration appeared in \"Proletarian\" #18 (June 2007):\n\nThe representatives of political parties from different countries of the world who are striving for the victory of socialism publish this declaration with a firm conviction to defend and advance the socialist cause.\n\nOurs is an era of independence and the socialist cause is a sacred one aimed at realising the independence of the popular masses.\n\nSocialism suffered a setback in some countries in recent years. As a consequence of this, the imperialists and reactionaries are claiming that socialism has ‘come to an end’. This is nothing but a sophistry to beautify and embellish capitalism and patronise the old order.\n\nThe setback of socialism and the revival of capitalism in some countries is causing a great loss to the achievement of the socialist cause, but it can never be interpreted as the denial of the superiority of socialism and of the reactionary character or capitalism.\n\nSocialism has long been the ideal of mankind and it represents the future of mankind.\n\nSocialist society is, in essence, a genuine society for the people where the popular masses are the masters of everything and everything serves them.\n\nBut the capitalist society is an unfair one where ‘the rich get ever richer and the poor poorer’. In this society money decides everything, exploitation of man by man predominates and a handful of exploiter classes lord it over all. It is inevitably accompanied by political non-rights, unemployment, poverty, drugs, crimes and other kinds of all social evils which trample human dignity underfoot.\n\nOnly socialism can eliminate domination, subjugation and social inequality of all kinds and ensure the people substantial freedom, equality, true democracy and human rights.\n\nThe popular masses have long carried on an arduous struggle for the victory of socialism and shed much blood in this course.\n\nThe path of socialism is an untrodden one and, therefore, the advance of socialism is inevitably accompanied by trials and difficulties.\nOne of the reasons for the unsuccessful construction of socialism in some countries is that they failed to build a social structure conforming to the fundamental requirements of the popular masses and build socialism suited to the demand of the theory of scientific socialism.\n\nThe guarantee for the advance of a socialist society lies in that the popular masses become the genuine masters of the society.\n\nSuch a society makes a triumphant advance – this is a truth and reality proved by theory and practice.\n\nThe parties and progressive mankind aspiring after socialism have drawn a very precious lesson therefrom.\n\nIn order to defend and advance the socialist cause individual parties should firmly maintain independence and firmly build up their own forces.\n\nThe socialist movement is an independent one. Socialism is carved out and built with a country or national state as a unit. The socialist cause in each country should be fulfilled on the responsibility of the party and people of that country.\n\nEach party should work out lines and policies which tally with the actual situation of the country where it is active and with the demands of its people and implement them by relying on the popular masses.\n\nIt should not abandon its revolutionary principles at any time and under any circumstances but uplift the banner of socialism.\n\nThe socialist cause is a national one and, at the same time, a common cause of mankind.\n\nAll parties should cement the ties of comradely unity, cooperation and solidarity on the principles of independence and equality.\n\nNow that the imperialists and reactionaries are attacking socialism and people in an international collusion, the parties which are building socialism or aspiring after it should defend and advance socialism on an international scale and strengthen mutual support and solidarity in their efforts for social justice, democracy, the right to existence and peace against imperialist domination, subjugation by capital and neo-colonialism.\n\nThis is an international duty incumbent upon all parties and progressive forces for socialism and an undertaking for their own cause.\n\nWe will advance under the unfurled banner of socialism in firm unity with all progressive political parties, organisations, and peoples of the world who are striving to defend socialism against capitalism and imperialism.\n\nLet us all fight it out to open up the future of mankind with a firm conviction in the cause of socialism.\n\nFinal victory is on the part of the people fighting in unity for socialism.\n\nThe socialist cause shall not perish.\n\nThe Declaration was initially endorsed by the following parties:\n\n\nBy the beginning of 1996 the Pyongyang Declaration was reportedly endorsed by \"well over 200 parties and organizations in all parts of the world\" including the (single member) 'Communist Organisation of Britain' and the Revolutionary Communist Party of Britain (Marxist-Leninist).\n\nOn December 17, 2000, the Korean Central News Agency ran a story \"Pyongyang declaration's vitality increases\" claiming that the number of parties endorsing the declaration rose to 170 within a year of its adoption and that 251 parties had signed it up to that date. It also said that there was a meeting in Moscow by \"officials of progressive parties from more than 20 countries\" to mark the fifth anniversary of the declaration and which issued a statement called \"Let us advance under the uplifted banner of the Pyongyang declaration.\" On the tenth anniversary of the Declaration on April 20, 2002, the KCNA announced that it had been endorsed by 258 parties.\n\nIn June 2007 the Communist Party of Great Britain (Marxist–Leninist) signed the declaration.\n\nIn May 2015 the Declaration was signed by the Popular Revolutionary Party of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nIn November 2016 the Declaration was signed by the Communist Party of Southern Switzerland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9107306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9107306", "title": "Security information management", "text": "Security information management\n\nSecurity information management (SIM) is an information security industry term for the collection of data such as log files into a central repository for trend analysis.\n\nSIM products generally are software agents running on the computer systems that are to be monitored, which then send the log information to a centralized server acting as a \"security console\". The console typically displays reports, charts, and graphs of that information, often in real time. Some software agents can incorporate local filters, to reduce and manipulate the data that they send to the server, although typically from a forensic point of view you would collect all audit and accounting logs to ensure you can recreate a security incident.\n\nThe security console is monitored by an administrator, who reviews the consolidated information, and takes action in response to any alerts issued.\n\nThe data that is sent to the server to be correlated and analyzed, are normalized by the software agents into a common form, usually XML. Those data are then aggregated, in order to reduce their overall size.\n\nThe terminology can easily be mistaken as a reference to the whole aspect of protecting one's infrastructure from any computer security breach. Due to historic reasons of terminology evolution; SIM refers to just the part of information security which consists of discovery of 'bad behavior' by using data collection techniques. The term commonly used to represent an entire security infrastructure that protects an environment is commonly called information security management (InfoSec).\n\nSecurity information management is also referred to as log management and is different from SEM (security event management), but makes up a portion of a SIEM (security information and event management) solution.\n\n"}
{"id": "2842539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2842539", "title": "Security policy", "text": "Security policy\n\nSecurity policy is a definition of what it means to \"be secure\" for a system, organization or other entity. For an organization, it addresses the constraints on behavior of its members as well as constraints imposed on adversaries by mechanisms such as doors, locks, keys and walls. For systems, the security policy addresses constraints on functions and flow among them, constraints on access by external systems and adversaries including programs and access to data by people. \n\nIf it is important to be secure, then it is important to be sure all of the security policy is enforced by mechanisms that are strong enough. There are many organized methodologies and risk assessment strategies to assure completeness of security policies and assure that they are completely enforced. In complex systems, such as information systems, policies can be decomposed into sub-policies to facilitate the allocation of security mechanisms to enforce sub-policies. However, this practice has pitfalls. It is too easy to simply go directly to the sub-policies, which are essentially the rules of operation and dispense with the top level policy. That gives the false sense that the rules of operation address some overall definition of security when they do not. Because it is so difficult to think clearly with completeness about security, rules of operation stated as \"sub-policies\" with no \"super-policy\" usually turn out to be rambling rules that fail to enforce anything with completeness. Consequently, a top-level security policy is essential to any serious security scheme and sub-policies and rules of operation are meaningless without it.\n\n"}
{"id": "2744606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2744606", "title": "Social criticism", "text": "Social criticism\n\nThe term social criticism often refers to a mode of criticism that locates the reasons for malicious conditions in a society considered to be in a flawed social structure. It may also refer to people adhering to a social critic's aims at practical solutions by way of specific measures either for consensual reform or powerful revolution.\n\nReligious persecution was common in Europe and was the reason for many physical and mental exoduses within the continent. Through such experiences, one of the first documents of social criticism was born: the \"Testament\" of Jean Meslier.\n\nRepression experienced by a minority often leads to protest. Without sufficient resolution of the dispute, a social criticism can be formulated, often covered by political groups (political monopoly). For protesting people \"within\" a social movement, it is often frustrating to experience failure of the movement and its own agenda.\n\nThe positivism dispute between critical rationalism, e.g. between Karl Popper and the Frankfurt School, is the academic form of the same discrepancy. This dispute deals with the question of whether research in the social sciences should be \"neutral\" or consciously adopt a partisan view.\n\nAcademic works of social criticism can belong to social philosophy, political economy, sociology, social psychology, psychoanalysis but also cultural studies and other disciplines or reject academic forms of discourse.\n\nSocial criticism can also be expressed in a fictional form, e.g. in a revolutionary novel like \"The Iron Heel\" by Jack London or in dystopian novels like Aldous Huxley's \"Brave New World\" (1932) or George Orwell's \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" (1949) or Ray Bradbury's \"Fahrenheit 451\" (1953), or Rafael Grugman's \"Nontraditional Love\" (2008), children's books or films.\n\nFictional literature can have a significant social impact. For example, the 1852 novel \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\", by Harriet Beecher Stowe furthered the anti-slavery movement in the United States, and the 1885 novel \"Ramona\", by Helen Hunt Jackson, brought about changes in laws regarding Native Americans. Similarly, Upton Sinclair's 1906 novel \"The Jungle\" helped create new laws related to public health and food handling, and Arthur Morrison's 1896 novel \"A Child of the Jago\" caused England to change its housing laws. George Orwell and Charles Dickens wrote \"Animal Farm\" and \"A Tale of Two Cities\", respectively, to express their disillusionment with society and human nature. \"Animal Farm\", written in 1944, is a book that tells the animal fable of a farm in which the farm animals revolt against their human masters. It is an example of social criticism in literature in which Orwell satirized the events in Russia after the Bolshevik Revolution. He anthropomorphises the animals, and alludes each one to a counterpart in Russian history. \"A Tale of Two Cities\" also typifies this kind of literature. Besides the central theme of love, is another prevalent theme, that of a revolution gone bad. He shows us that, unfortunately, human nature causes us to be vengeful and, for some of us, overly ambitious. Both these books are similar in that both describe how, even with the best of intentions, our ambitions get the best of us. Both authors also demonstrate that violence and the Machiavellian attitude of \"the ends justifying the means\" are deplorable. They also express their authors' disenchantment with the state of evolution of human nature.\n\nAccording to Frederick Douglass, \"Where justice is denied, where poverty is enforced, where ignorance prevails, and where any one class is made to feel that society is an organized conspiracy to oppress, rob and degrade them, neither persons nor property will be safe.\"\n\nThe authors imply, that even if we begin with honourable intentions, there will be some who will let their basic instincts take control. \"Animal Farm\" portrays this nature through parodying events in real history. Given the right conditions, these events could happen anywhere. Take for example, a leader becoming overly ambitious, to the point of harming his people for more power.\n\nIn \"A Tale of Two Cities\", Dickens examines the inner soul, and shares with us how people are driven to the valley of human emotions, where desperation and anger reign, and what could happen afterwards if we let these emotions build up inside. Every human being is capable of becoming a ruthless, opportunistic being like Napoleon or Madame Defarge, if placed in the right place, at the right time.\n\nSocial criticism is certainly present in opera (The Cradle Will Rock, Trouble in Tahiti) and other types of classical music, such as the Symphony No.13, called \"Babi Yar\", of Dmitri Shostakovich. Other musical expressions of social criticism are frequent in punk and rap music, examples being \"Pretty Vacant\" by Sex Pistols and \"Brenda's Got a Baby\" by 2Pac. Heavy metal bands such as Black Sabbath, Metallica and Megadeth also use social criticism extensively, particularly in their earlier works.\n"}
{"id": "59111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59111", "title": "Socialized medicine", "text": "Socialized medicine\n\nSocialized medicine is a term used in the United States to describe and discuss systems of universal health care: medical and hospital care for all at a nominal cost by means of government regulation of health care and subsidies derived from taxation. Because of historically negative associations with socialism in American culture, the term is usually used pejoratively in American political discourse. The term was first widely used in the United States by advocates of the American Medical Association in opposition to President Harry S. Truman's 1947 health-care initiative.\n\nThe original meaning was confined to systems in which the government operates health care facilities and employs health care professionals. This narrower usage would apply to the British National Health Service hospital trusts and health systems that operate in other countries as diverse as Finland, Spain, Israel, and Cuba. The United States Veterans Health Administration and the medical departments of the U.S. Army, Navy, and Air Force, would also fall under this narrow definition. When used in that way, the narrow definition permits a clear distinction from single payer health insurance systems, in which the government finances health care but is not involved in care delivery.\n\nMore recently, American conservative critics of health care reform have attempted to broaden the term by applying it to any publicly funded system. Canada's Medicare system and most of the UK's NHS general practitioner and dental services, which are systems where health care is delivered by private business with partial or total government funding, fit the broader definition, as do the health care systems of most of Western Europe. In the United States, Medicare, Medicaid, and the US military's TRICARE fall under that definition. In specific regard to military benefits of a (currently) volunteer military, such care is an owed benefit to a specific group as part of an economic exchange, which muddies the definition yet further.\n\nMost industrialized countries and many developing countries operate some form of publicly funded health care with universal coverage as the goal. According to the Institute of Medicine and others, the United States is the only wealthy, industrialized nation that does not provide universal health care.\n\nJonathan Oberlander, a professor of health policy at the University of North Carolina, maintains that the term is merely a political pejorative that has been defined to mean different levels of government involvement in health care, depending on what the speaker was arguing against at the time.\n\nThe term is often used by conservatives in the U.S. to imply that the privately run health care system would become controlled by the government, thereby associating it with socialism, which has negative connotations to some people in American political culture. As such, its usage is controversial, and at odds with the views of conservatives in other countries prepared to defend socialized medicine such as Margaret Thatcher.\n\nWhen the term \"socialized medicine\" first appeared in the United States in the early 1900s, it bore no negative connotations. Otto P. Geier, chairman of the Preventive Medicine Section of the American Medical Association, was quoted in \"The New York Times\" in 1917 as praising socialized medicine as a way to \"discover disease in its incipiency,\" help end \"venereal diseases, alcoholism, tuberculosis,\" and \"make a fundamental contribution to social welfare.\" However, by the 1930s, the term socialized medicine was routinely used negatively by conservative opponents of publicly funded health care who wished to imply it represented socialism, and by extension, communism. Universal health care and national health insurance were first proposed by U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt. President Franklin D. Roosevelt later championed it, as did Harry S. Truman as part of his Fair Deal and many others. Truman announced before describing his proposal that: \"This is not socialized medicine\".\n\nGovernment involvement in health care was ardently opposed by the AMA, which distributed posters to doctors with slogans such as \"Socialized medicine ... will undermine the democratic form of government.\" According to T.R. Reid (\"The Healing of America\", 2009): The term [\"socialized medicine\"] was popularized by the public relations firm Whitaker and Baxter working for the American Medical Association in 1947 to disparage President Truman's proposal for a national health care system. It was a label, at the dawn of the cold war, meant to suggest that anybody advocating universal access to health care must be a communist. And the phrase has retained its political power for six decades.\n\nThe AMA conducted a nationwide campaign called Operation Coffee Cup during the late 1950s and early 1960s in opposition to the Democrats' plans to extend Social Security to include health insurance for the elderly, later known as Medicare. As part of the plan, doctors' wives would organize coffee meetings in an attempt to convince acquaintances to write letters to Congress opposing the program. In 1961, Ronald Reagan recorded a disc entitled \"Ronald Reagan Speaks Out Against Socialized Medicine\" warning its audience the \"dangers\" that socialized medicine could bring. The recording was widely played at Operation Coffee Cup meetings. Other pressure groups began to extend the definition from state managed health care to any form of state finance in health care. President Dwight Eisenhower opposed plans to expand government role in healthcare during his time in office.\n\nIn more recent times, the term was brought up again by Republicans in the 2008 U.S. presidential election. In July 2007, one month after the release of Michael Moore's film \"Sicko\", Rudy Giuliani, the front-runner for the 2008 Republican presidential nomination, attacked the health care plans of Democratic presidential candidates as socialized medicine that was European and socialist, Giuliani claimed that he had a better chance of surviving prostate cancer in the US than he would have had in England and went on to repeat the claim in campaign speeches for three months before making them in a radio advertisement. After the radio ad began running, the use of the statistic was widely criticized by FactCheck.org, PolitiFact.com, by \"The Washington Post\", and others who consulted leading cancer experts and found that Giuliani's cancer survival statistics to be false, misleading or \"flat wrong,\" the numbers having been reported to have been obtained from an opinion article by Giuliani health care advisor David Gratzer, a Canadian psychiatrist in the Manhattan Institute's \"City Journal\" where Gratzer was a senior fellow. \"The Times\" reported that the British Health Secretary pleaded with Giuliani to stop using the NHS as a political football in American presidential politics. The article reported that not only the figures were five years out of date and wrong but also that US health experts disputed both the accuracy of Giuliani's figures and questioned whether it was fair to make a direct comparison. The \"St. Petersburg Times\" said that Giuliani's tactic of \"injecting a little fear\" exploited cancer, which was \"apparently not beneath a survivor with presidential aspirations.\" Giuliani's repetition of the error even after it had been pointed out to him earned him more criticism and was awarded four \"Pinnochios\" by the \"Washington Post\" for recidivism.\n\nHealth care professionals have tended to avoid the term because of its pejorative nature, but if they use it, they do not include publicly funded private medical schemes such as Medicaid. Opponents of state involvement in health care tend to use the looser definition.\n\nThe term is widely used by the American media and pressure groups. Some have even stretched use of the term to cover any regulation of health care, publicly financed or not. The term is often used to criticize publicly provided health care outside the US, but rarely to describe similar health care programs there, such as the Veterans Administration clinics and hospitals, military health care, or the single payer programs such as Medicaid and Medicare. Many conservatives use the term to evoke negative sentiment toward health care reform that would involve increasing government involvement in the US health care system.\n\nMedical staff, academics and most professionals in the field and international bodies such as the World Health Organization tend to avoid use of the term. Outside the US, the terms most commonly used are universal health care or public health care. According to health economist Uwe Reinhardt, \"strictly speaking, the term 'socialized medicine' should be reserved for health systems in which the government operates the production of health care and provides its financing.\" Still others say the term has no meaning at all.\n\nIn more recent times, the term has gained a more positive reappraisal. Documentary movie maker Michael Moore in his documentary \"Sicko\" pointed out that Americans do not talk about public libraries or the police or the fire department as being \"socialized\" and do not have negative opinions of these. Media personalities such as Oprah Winfrey have also weighed in behind the concept of public involvement in healthcare. A 2008 poll indicates that Americans are sharply divided when asked about their views of the expression \"socialized medicine\", with a large percentage of Democrats holding favorable views, while a large percentage of Republicans holding unfavorable views. Independents tend to somewhat favor it.\n\nThe Veterans Health Administration, the Military Health System, and the Indian Health Service are examples of socialized medicine in the stricter sense of government administered care, but they are for limited populations.\n\nMedicare and Medicaid are forms of publicly funded health care, which fits the looser definition of socialized medicine. Part B coverage (Medical) requires a monthly premium of $96.40 (and possibly higher) and the first $135 of costs per year also fall to the senior, not the government.\n\nA poll released in February 2008, conducted by the Harvard School of Public Health and Harris Interactive, indicated that Americans are currently divided in their opinions of socialized medicine, and this split correlates strongly with their political party affiliation.\n\nTwo thirds of those polled said they understood the term \"socialized medicine\" very well or somewhat well. When offered descriptions of what such a system could mean, strong majorities believed that it means \"the government makes sure everyone has health insurance\" (79%) and \"the government pays most of the cost of health care\" (73%). One third (32%) felt that socialized medicine is a system in which \"the government tells doctors what to do.\" The poll showed \"striking differences\" by party affiliation. Among Republicans polled, 70% said that socialized medicine would be worse than the current system. The same percentage of Democrats (70%) said that a socialized medical system would be better than the current system. Independents were more evenly split, with 43% saying socialized medicine would be better and 38% worse.\n\nAccording to Robert J. Blendon, professor of health policy and political analysis at the Harvard School of Public Health, \"The phrase 'socialized medicine' really resonates as a pejorative with Republicans. However, that so many Democrats believe that socialized medicine would be an improvement is an indication of their dissatisfaction with our current system.\" Physicians' opinions have become more favorable toward \"socialized medicine.\"\n\nA 2008 survey of doctors, published in \"Annals of Internal Medicine\", shows that physicians support universal health care and national health insurance by almost 2 to 1.\n\nAlthough the marginal scope of free or subsidized medicine provided is much discussed within the political body in most countries with socialized health care systems, there is little or no evidence of strong public pressure for the removal of subsidies or the privatization of health care in those countries. The political distaste for government involvement in health care in the U.S. is a unique counter to the trend found in other developed countries.\n\nIn the United States, neither of the main parties favors a socialized system that puts the government in charge of hospitals or doctors, but they do have different approaches to financing and access. Democrats tend to be favorably inclined towards reform that involves more government control over health care financing and citizens' right of access to health care. Republicans are broadly in favor of the status quo, or a reform of the financing system that gives more power to the citizen, often through tax credits.\n\nSupporters of government involvement in health care argue that government involvement ensures access, quality, and addresses market failures specific to the health care markets. When the government covers the cost of health care, there is no need for individuals or their employers to pay for private insurance.\n\nOpponents also claim that the absence of a market mechanism may slow innovation in treatment and research.\n\nBoth sides have also looked to more philosophical arguments, debating whether people have a fundamental right to have health care provided to them by their government.\n\nSocialized medicine amongst industrialized countries tends to be more affordable than in systems where there is little government involvement. A 2003 study examined costs and outputs in the U.S. and other industrialized countries and broadly concluded that the U.S. spends so much because its health care system is more costly. It noted that \"the United States spent considerably more on health care than any other country ... [yet] most measures of aggregate utilization such as physician visits per capita and hospital days per capita were below the OECD median. Since spending is a product of both the goods and services used and their prices, this implies that much higher prices are paid in the United States than in other countries. The researchers examined possible reasons and concluded that input costs were high (salaries, cost of pharmaceutical), and that the complex payment system in the U.S. added higher administrative costs. Comparison countries in Canada and Europe were much more willing to exert monopsony power to drive down prices, whilst the highly fragmented buy side of the U.S. health system was one factor that could explain the relatively high prices in the United States of America. The current fee-for-service payment system also stimulates expensive care by promoting procedures over visits through financially rewarding the former ($1,500 – for doing a 10-minute procedure) vs. the latter ($50 – for a 30–45 minute visit). This causes the proliferation of specialists (more expensive care) and creating, what Don Berwick refers to as, \"the world's best healthcare system for rescue care\".\n\nOther studies have found no consistent and systematic relationship between the type of financing of health care and cost containment; the efficiency of operation of the health care system itself appears to depend much more on how providers are paid and how the delivery of care is organized than on the method used to raise these funds.\n\nSome supporters argue that government involvement in health care would reduce costs not just because of the exercise of monopsony power, e.g. in drug purchasing, but also because it eliminates profit margins and administrative overhead associated with private insurance, and because it can make use of economies of scale in administration. In certain circumstances, a volume purchaser may be able to guarantee sufficient volume to reduce overall prices while providing greater profitability to the seller, such as in so-called \"purchase commitment\" programs. Economist Arnold Kling attributes the present cost crisis mainly to the practice of what he calls \"premium medicine\", which overuses expensive forms of technology that is of marginal or no proven benefit.\n\nMilton Friedman has argued that government has weak incentives to reduce costs because \"nobody spends somebody else’s money as wisely or as frugally as he spends his own\". Others contend that health care consumption is not like other consumer consumption. Firstly there is a negative utility of consumption (consuming more health care does not make one better off) and secondly there is an information asymmetry between consumer and supplier.\n\nPaul Krugman and Robin Wells argue that all of the evidence indicates that public insurance of the kind available in several European countries achieves equal or better results at much lower cost, a conclusion that also applies within the United States. In terms of actual administrative costs, Medicare spent less than 2% of its resources on administration, while private insurance companies spent more than 13%. The Cato Institute argues that the 2% Medicare cost figure ignores all costs shifted to doctors and hospitals, and alleges that Medicare is not very efficient at all when those costs are incorporated. Some studies have found that the U.S. wastes more on bureaucracy (compared to the Canadian level), and that this excess administrative cost would be sufficient to provide health care to the uninsured population in the U.S.\n\nNotwithstanding the arguments about Medicare, there is overall less bureaucracy in socialized systems than in the present mixed U.S. system. Spending on administration in Finland is 2.1% of all health care costs, and in the UK the figure is 3.3% whereas the U.S. spends 7.3% of all expenditures on administration.\n\nSome in the U.S. claim that socialized medicine would reduce health care quality. The quantitative evidence for this claim is not clear. The WHO has used Disability Adjusted Life Expectancy (the number of years an average person can expect to live in good health) as a measure of a nation's health achievement, and has ranked its member nations by this measure. The U.S. ranking was 24th, worse than similar industrial countries with high public funding of health such as Canada (ranked 5th), the UK (12th), Sweden (4th), France (3rd) and Japan (1st). But the U.S. ranking was better than some other European countries such as Ireland, Denmark and Portugal, which came 27th, 28th and 29th respectively. Finland, with its relatively high death rate from guns and renowned high suicide rate came above the U.S. in 20th place. The British have a Care Quality Commission that commissions independent surveys of the quality of care given in its health institutions and these are publicly accessible over the internet. These determine whether health organizations are meeting public standards for quality set by government and allows regional comparisons. Whether these results indicate a better or worse situation to that in other countries such as the U.S. is hard to tell because these countries tend to lack a similar set of standards.\n\nOpponents claim that socialized medicine would require higher taxes but international comparisons do not support this; the ratio of public to private spending on health is lower in the U.S. than that of Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, or any EU country, yet the per capita tax funding of health in those countries is already lower than that of the United States.\n\nTaxation is not necessarily an unpopular form of funding for health care. In England, a survey for the British Medical Association of the general public showed overwhelming support for the tax funding of health care. Nine out of ten people agreed or strongly agreed with a statement that the NHS should be funded from taxation with care being free at the point of use.\n\nAn opinion piece in \"The Wall Street Journal\" by two conservative Republicans argues that government sponsored health care will legitimatize support for government services generally, and make an activist government acceptable. \"Once a large number of citizens get their health care from the state, it dramatically alters their attachment to government. Every time a tax cut is proposed, the guardians of the new medical-welfare state will argue that tax cuts would come at the expense of health care -- an argument that would resonate with middle-class families entirely dependent on the government for access to doctors and hospitals.\"\n\nSome in the U.S. argue that if government were to use its size to bargain down health care prices, this would undermine American leadership in medical innovation. It is argued that the high level of spending in the U.S. health care system and its tolerance of waste is actually beneficial because it underpins American leadership in medical innovation, which is crucial not just for Americans, but for the entire world.\n\nOthers point out that the American health care system spends more on state-of-the-art treatment for people who have good insurance, and spending is reduced on those lacking it and question the costs and benefits of some medical innovations, noting, for example, that \"rising spending on new medical technologies designed to address heart disease has not meant that more patients have survived.\"\n\nOne of the goals of socialized medicine systems is ensuring universal access to health care. Opponents of socialized medicine say that access for low-income individuals can be achieved by means other than socialized medicine, for example, income-related subsidies can function without public provision of either insurance or medical services. Economist Milton Friedman said the role of the government in health care should be restricted to financing hard cases. Universal coverage can also be achieved by making purchase of insurance compulsory. For example, European countries with socialized medicine in the broader sense, such as Germany and The Netherlands, operate in this way. A legal obligation to purchase health insurance is akin to a mandated health tax, and the use of public subsidies is a form of directed income redistribution via the tax system. Such systems give the consumer a free choice amongst competing insurers whilst achieving universality to a government directed minimum standard.\n\nCompulsory health insurance or savings are not limited to so-called socialized medicine, however. Singapore's health care system, which is often referred to as a free-market or mixed system, makes use of a combination of compulsory participation and state price controls to achieve the same goals.\n\nPart of the current debate about health care in the United States revolves around whether the Affordable Care Act as part of health care reform will result in a more systematic and logical allocation of health care. Opponents tend to believe that the law will eventually result in a government takeover of health care and ultimately to socialized medicine and rationing based not on being able to afford the care you want but on whether a third party other than the patient and the doctor decides whether the procedure or the cost is justifiable. Supporters of reform point out that health care rationing already exists in the United States through insurance companies either denying coverage for pre-existing conditions or applying differential pricing for this coverage, or issuing denial for reimbursement on the grounds that the insurance company believes the procedure is experimental or will not assist even though the doctor has recommended it. A public insurance plan was not included in the Affordable Care Act but some argue that it would have added to health care access choices, and others argue that the central issue is whether health care is rationed sensibly.\n\nOpponents of reform invoke the term socialized medicine because they say it will lead to health care rationing by denial of coverage, denial of access, and use of waiting lists, but often do so without acknowledging coverage denial, lack of access and waiting lists exist in the U.S. health care system currently or that waiting lists in the U.S. are sometimes longer than the waiting lists in countries with socialized medicine. Proponents of the reform proposal point out a public insurer is not akin to a socialized medicine system because it will have to negotiate rates with the medical industry just as other insurers do and cover its cost with premiums charged to policyholders just as other insurers do without any form of subsidy.\n\nThere is a frequent misunderstanding to think that waiting happens in places like the United Kingdom and Canada but does not happen in the United States. For instance it is not uncommon even for emergency cases in some U.S. hospitals to be boarded on beds in hallways for 48 hours or more due to lack of inpatient beds and people in the U.S. rationed out by being unable to afford their care are simply never counted and may never receive the care they need, a factor that is often overlooked. Statistics about waiting times in national systems are an honest approach to the issue of those waiting for access to care. Everyone waiting for care is reflected in the data, which, in the UK for example, are used to inform debate, decision-making and research within the government and the wider community. Some people in the U.S. are rationed out of care by unaffordable care or denial of access by HMOs and insurers or simply because they cannot afford co-pays or deductibles even if they have insurance. These people wait an indefinitely long period and may never get care they need, but actual numbers are simply unknown because they are not recorded in official statistics.\n\nOpponents of the current reform care proposals fear that U.S. comparative effective research (a plan introduced in the stimulus bill) will be used to curtail spending and ration treatments, which is one function of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE), arguing that rationing by market pricing rather by government is the best way for care to be rationed. However, when defining any group scheme, the same rules must apply to everyone in the scheme so some coverage rules had to be established. Britain has a national budget for public funded health care, and recognizes there has to be a logical trade off between spending on expensive treatments for some against, for example, caring for sick children. NICE is therefore applying the same market pricing principles to make the hard job of deciding between funding some treatments and not funding others on behalf of everyone in the insured pool. This rationing does not preclude choice of obtaining insurance coverage for excluded treatment as insured persons do having the choice to take out supplemental health insurance for drugs and treatments that the NHS does not cover (at least one private insurer offers such a plan) or from meeting treatment costs out-of-pocket.\n\nThe debate in the U.S. over rationing has enraged some in the UK and statements made by politicians such as Sarah Palin and Chuck Grassley resulted in a mass Internet protest on websites such as Twitter and Facebook under the banner title \"welovetheNHS\" with positive stories of NHS experiences to counter the negative ones being expressed by these politicians and others and by certain media outlets such as \"Investor's Business Daily\" and Fox News. In the UK, it is private health insurers that ration care (in the sense of not covering the most common services such as access to a primary care physician or excluding pre-existing conditions) rather than the NHS. Free access to a general practitioner is a core right in the NHS, but private insurers in the UK will not pay for payments to a private primary care physician. Private insurers exclude many of the most common services as well as many of the most expensive treatments, whereas the vast majority of these are not excluded from the NHS but are obtainable at no cost to the patient. According to the Association of British Insurers (ABI), a typical policy will exclude the following: going to a general practitioner; going to accident and emergency; drug abuse; HIV/AIDS; normal pregnancy; gender reassignment; mobility aids, such as wheelchairs; organ transplant; injuries arising from dangerous hobbies (often called hazardous pursuits); pre-existing conditions; dental services; outpatient drugs and dressings; deliberately self-inflicted injuries; infertility; cosmetic treatment; experimental or unproven treatment or drugs; and war risks. Chronic illnesses, such as diabetes and end stage renal disease requiring dialysis are also excluded from coverage. Insurers do not cover these because they feel they do not need to since the NHS already provides coverage and to provide the choice of a private provider would make the insurance prohibitively expensive. Thus in the UK there is cost shifting from the private sector to the public sector, which again is the \"opposite\" of the allegation of cost shifting in the U.S. from public providers such as Medicare and Medicaid to the private sector.\n\nPalin had alleged that America will create rationing \"death panels\" to decide whether old people could live or die, again widely taken to be a reference to NICE. U.S. Senator Chuck Grassley alleged that he was told that Senator Edward Kennedy would have been refused the brain tumor treatment he was receiving in the United States had he instead lived a country with government run health care. This, he alleged, would have been due to rationing because of Kennedy's age (77 years) and the high cost of treatment. The UK Department of Health said that Grassley’s claims were \"just wrong\" and reiterated health service in Britain provides health care on the basis of clinical need regardless of age or ability to pay. The chairman of the British Medical Association, Hamish Meldrum, said he was dismayed by the \"jaw-droppingly untruthful attacks\" made by American critics. The chief executive of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE), told \"The Guardian\" newspaper that \"it is neither true, nor is it anything you could extrapolate from anything we've ever recommended\" that Kennedy would be denied treatment by the NHS. The business journal \"Investor's Business Daily\" recently claimed mathematician and astrophysicist Stephen Hawking, who has ALS and speaks with the aid of an American-accented voice synthesizer, would not have survived if he had been treated in the British National Health Service. Hawking is British and been treated throughout his life (67 years) by the NHS and issued a statement to the effect he owed his life to the quality of care he has received from the NHS.\n\nSome argue that countries with national health care may use waiting lists as a form of rationing compared to countries that ration by price, such as the United States, according to several commentators and healthcare experts. \"The Washington Post\" columnist Ezra Klein compared 27% of Canadians reportedly waiting four months or more for elective surgery with 26% of Americans reporting that they did not fulfill a prescription due to cost (compared to only 6% of Canadians). Britain's former age-based policy that once prevented the use of kidney dialysis as treatment for older patients with renal problems, even to those who can privately afford the costs, has been cited as another example. A 1999 study in the \"Journal of Public Economics\" analyzed the British National Health Service and found that its waiting times function as an effective market disincentive, with a low elasticity of demand with respect to time.\n\nSupporters of private price rationing over waiting time rationing, such as \"The Atlantic\" columnist Megan McArdle, argue time rationing leaves patients worse off since their time (measured as an opportunity cost) is worth much more than the price they would pay. Opponents also state categorizing patients based on factors such as social value to the community or age will not work in a heterogeneous society without a common ethical consensus such as the U.S. Doug Bandow of the CATO Institute wrote that government decision making would \"override the differences in preferences and circumstances\" for individuals and that it is a matter of personal liberty to be able to buy as much or as little care as one wants. Neither argument recognizes the fact that in most countries with socialized medicine, a parallel system of private health care allows people to pay extra to reduce their waiting time. The exception is that some provinces in Canada disallow the right to bypass queuing unless the matter is one in which the rights of the person under the constitution.\n\nA 1999 article in the \"British Medical Journal\", stated \"there is much merit in using waiting lists as a rationing mechanism for elective health care if the waiting lists are managed efficiently and fairly.\" Dr. Arthur Kellermann, associate dean for health policy at Emory University, stated rationing by ability to pay rather than by anticipated medical benefits in the U.S. makes its system more unproductive, with poor people avoiding preventive care and eventually using expensive emergency treatment. Ethicist Daniel Callahan has written that U.S. culture overly emphasizes individual autonomy rather than communitarian morals and that stops beneficial rationing by social value, which benefits everyone.\n\nSome argue that waiting lists result in great pain and suffering, but again evidence for this is unclear. In a recent survey of patients admitted to hospital in the UK from a waiting list or by planned appointment, only 10% reported they felt they should have been admitted sooner than they were. 72% reported the admission was as timely as they felt necessary. Medical facilities in the U.S. do not report waiting times in national statistics as is done in other countries and it is a myth to believe there is no waiting for care in the U.S. Some argue that wait times in the U.S. could actually be as long as or longer than in other countries with universal health care.\n\nThere is considerable argument about whether any of the health bills currently before congress will introduce rationing. Howard Dean for example contested in an interview that they do not. However, \"Politico\" has pointed out that all health systems contain elements of rationing (such as coverage rules) and the public health care plan will therefore implicitly involve some element of rationing.\n\nIn the UK, where government employees or government-employed sub-contractors deliver most health care, political interference is quite hard to discern. Most supply-side decisions are in practice under the control of medical practitioners and of boards comprising the medical profession. There is some antipathy towards the target-setting by politicians in the UK. Even the NICE criteria for public funding of medical treatments were never set by politicians. Nevertheless, politicians have set targets, for instance to reduce waiting times and to improve choice. Academics have pointed out that the claims of success of the targeting are statistically flawed.\n\nThe veracity and significance of the claims of targeting interfering with clinical priorities are often hard to judge. For example, some UK ambulance crews have complained that hospitals would deliberately leave patients with ambulance crews to prevent an accident and emergency department (A&E, or emergency room) target-time for treatment from starting to run. The Department of Health vehemently denied the claim, because the A&E time begins when the ambulance arrives at the hospital and not after the handover. It defended the A&E target by pointing out that the percentage of people waiting four hours or more in A&E had dropped from just under 25% in 2004 to less than 2% in 2008. The original \"Observer\" article reported that in London, 14,700 ambulance turnarounds were longer than an hour and 332 were more than two hours when the target turnaround time is 15 minutes. However, in the context of the total number of emergency ambulance attendances by the London Ambulance Service each year (approximately 865,000), these represent just 1.6% and 0.03% of all ambulance calls. The proportion of these attributable to patients left with ambulance crews is not recorded. At least one junior doctor has complained that the four-hour A&E target is too high and leads to unwarranted actions that are not in the best interests of patients.\n\nPolitical targeting of waiting-times in Britain has had dramatic effects. The National Health Service reports that the median admission wait-time for elective inpatient treatment (non-urgent hospital treatment) in England at the end of August 2007, was just under 6 weeks, and 87.5% of patients were admitted within 13 weeks. Reported waiting times in England also overstate the true waiting-time. This is because the clock starts ticking when the patient has been referred to a specialist by the GP and it only stops when the medical procedure is completed. The 18-week maximum waiting period target thus includes all the time taken for the patient to attend the first appointment with the specialist, time for any tests called for by the specialist to determine precisely the root of the patient's problem and the best way to treat it. It excludes time for any intervening steps deemed necessary prior to treatment, such as recovery from some other illness or the losing of excessive weight.\n\n"}
{"id": "11587907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11587907", "title": "Souk el Tayeb", "text": "Souk el Tayeb\n\nSouk el Tayeb is an open-air weekly farmers market in Lebanon that specializes in organic food products. It is held every Saturday in downtown Beirut at the Beirut Souks, Trablos Street from 9am to 2pm. \n\nThe market is organized and run by a non-profit cooperative headquartered at 226, Rue Gouraud in Gemmayzeh. \nThe organic cooperative spans Lebanon's regions, religions and sects. Souk el Tayeb receives funding from European governments and from nongovernmental groups. According to the \"Los Angeles Times\", the Italian government donated $600,000 for food-related projects in Lebanon after the 2006 war.\n\n"}
{"id": "24399246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24399246", "title": "Tomasz Kamusella", "text": "Tomasz Kamusella\n\nTomasz Kamusella FRHistS (born 1967, Kędzierzyn, Upper Silesia, Poland) is a Polish scholar pursuing interdisciplinary research in language politics, nationalism and ethnicity.\n\nKamusella was educated at the University of Silesia in Katowice, Faculty of Philology in Sosnowiec Campus (English language), Poland; Potchefstroom University (now part of the North-West University), Potchefstroom, South Africa; and the Central European University (co-accredited then by the Open University, Milton Keynes, United Kingdom), Prague Campus, Czech Republic. He obtained his doctor degree in Political Science from the Institute of Western Affairs (Instytut Zachodni), Poznań, Poland and habilitation in Cultural Studies from the Warsaw School of Social Sciences and Humanities, Warsaw, Poland.\n\nIn 1994/95, he taught in the Language Teachers' Training College (\"Nauczycielskie Kolegium Języków Obcych\"), Opole, Poland, and between 1995 and 2007 at the University of Opole, Opole, Poland. From 2002 to 2006, he did postdoctoral research in the European University Institute, Florence, Italy; the John W. Kluge Center, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., United States; the Institute for Human Sciences (\"Institut für die Wissenschaften vom Menschen (IWM)\"), Vienna, Austria; and the Herder-Institut , Marburg, Germany. As visiting professor, in 2007–10, he taught Central and Eastern European History and Polish History and Politics in Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland, in 2010–11 at the Cracow University of Economics, Kraków, Poland; and in 2011 did research in the Slavic Research Center, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan. Currently, he teaches in the School of History (Centre for Transnational and Spatial History) at the University of St Andrews, St Andrews, Fife, Scotland.\n\nIn 2004 the board of the University of Opole's Faculty of Philology formally distanced itself from the theories propagated by Kamusella in a press release published by \"Gazeta Wyborcza\", alleging methodological inadequacies and tendentious conclusions among other controversies in his historical research. However, the faculty did not allow for any open discussion of the allegations, and the release of the minutes of the faculty's public declaration was withheld for 11 years, so as to allow the Statute of limitations to kick in, due to potentially libelous statements uttered by some of the board's members.\n\n\"The Politics of Language and Nationalism in Modern Central Europe\" (2008)—Kamusella's major synthesis of the intertwining histories, nationalisms, and languages of East Central Europe—was praised in leading academic journals, including by Yale's Timothy D. Snyder and Cambridge's Peter Burke.\n\nIn 1996, he was employed as the regional Plenipotentiary on European Integration to the Regional Governor (Pełnomocnik Wojewody ds. Integracji Europejskiej) in the Regional Authority (Urząd Wojewódzki), Opole. Later, from 1999 to 2002, he acted as Advisor on International Affairs to the Regional President (Doradca Marszałka ds. Współpracy z Zagranicą), Self-Governmental Regional Authority (Urząd Marszałkowski), Opole. In co-operation with the University of Opole, between 1997 and 2001, he managed the application in the Council of Europe, and financing that led to the establishment of the European Documentation Center in Opole. This centre makes acquis communautaire available to the inhabitants of the Voivodeship of Opole and constituted a basis for founding a Department of Law at the University of Opole. In 1998, in the framework of the European Visitors Program of the European Union, he also visited the Spanish Autonomous Community of Galicia, which, in the following year, led to the signing of the co-operation agreement between this Spanish region and the Opole Voivodeship.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5807544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5807544", "title": "Trophies of Damascus", "text": "Trophies of Damascus\n\nTrophies of Damascus was a 7th-century anti-Jewish tract written between 661 and 681 AD which presents an eye-witness accounts to the events that took place around that time period in the Middle East. It categorizes the nascent Saracens (Muslim) tribes as part of an alliance of Jewish clans fighting against the Byzantine Christians in contradiction to later accounts from traditional Islamic sources.\n"}
{"id": "45374721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45374721", "title": "Uber protests and legal actions", "text": "Uber protests and legal actions\n\nUber is an international transportation network company (TNC) and technology company, best known for its peer-to-peer ridesharing operations worldwide. It has its headquarters in San Francisco, California, and has subsidiaries in many countries. The company has experienced many protests to their entry into many markets around the world, and has been subjected to a variety of laws to regulate its activities.\n\nA number of communities, governments, and organizations have established rules and regulations that specifically govern TNCs and, in some jurisdictions, TNCs operations are completely illegal. Regulations can include requirements for driver background checks, fares, the number of drivers, and licensing.\n\nTaxi industry groups have argued that TNCs are illegal taxicab operations which take away their business. Others have called for governments to relax legislation in favor of ridesharing companies such as Uber.\n\nUber is banned from or has voluntary pulled out of, due to legal restrictions, the following jurisdictions: parts of Oregon, Bulgaria, Denmark, Hungary, and parts of Germany. The UberPop level of service is banned in Italy, France, Netherlands, and Finland.\n\nLegally, Uber claims its drivers are independent contractors, and not employees. This designation may affect taxation, work hours, and overtime benefits and has been controversial. Lawsuits have been filed by Uber drivers alleging that they are entitled to the rights and remedies of being considered \"employees\" under employment law.\n\nIn May 2015, the Australian Taxation Office (ATO) issued a directive stating that drivers that generate income via a TNC need to have an Australian Business Number and be registered to pay the Goods and Services Tax (GST). Uber filed suit in the Federal Court of Australia, arguing that the public issue by the ATO \"unfairly targets Uber's driver-partners\". In February 2017, a justice found in favor of the ATO, requiring drivers to register, collect and pay GST. The ATO ruling overrides the standard applied to other small Australian businesses, which only requires businesses grossing more than A$75,000 to collect and remit GST.\n\nRidesharing was legalized in the Australian Capital Territory in September 2015. At the same time, fees for taxis and hire cars were reduced to enable them to compete against rideshare operators. Taxis will continue to have the exclusive right to work at taxi ranks or be hailed.\n\nOn 30 April 2014, Transport for New South Wales clarified that TNC services must be provided in a licensed taxi or hire car, by an appropriately accredited driver. In December 2014, the New South Wales government confirmed that in April 2014, it conducted an unannounced search of Uber's Sydney offices in April.\n\nIn August 2015, the New South Wales government created a task force to look into regulating Uber. From 17 December 2015, taxi and ridesharing passengers pay a $1 levy per trip for five years to fund a $250 million compensation fund for taxi licence holders.\n\nRidesharing was legalized in the Northern Territory in January 2018, with a $1 levy being imposed on all taxi, minibus, private hire and ridesharing trips.\n\nIn mid-November 2014, the Taxi Council of Queensland (TCQ) launched an anti-Uber media campaign. Uber defended itself against the claims.\n\nEffective 5 September 2016, Uber was legalized in Queensland.\n\nRidesharing was legalised in South Australia on 1 July 2016, following a review that commenced in January 2015. As part of the reform package, compensation was offered for those in the taxi industry, and a $1 metropolitan ride levy was introduced to fund the compensation. Taxis will continue to have the exclusive right to work at ranks or be hailed.\n\nRidesharing was legalized in Tasmania in December 2016.\n\nOn 6 May 2014, the Victorian Taxi Service Commission fined Uber drivers A$1,723. State officers said that they will review the state's Transport Act, while Uber said it will reimburse its drivers.\n\nOn 4 December 2015, an Uber driver was found guilty of driving a hire car without a licence or registration. The case was the first of 12 brought against Uber drivers. On 18 May 2016, the judgement was overturned on appeal, effectively legalizing Uber in Victoria.\n\nOn 25 August 2016, the government announced plans to legalize ridesharing in Victoria. From 2018, taxi licences were abolished and licence holders compensated by an 8-year A$1 levy on all taxi and ride-booking services in the state.\n\nFrom 18 December 2015, new regulations were introduced, including a requirement that TNC apply for omnibus licences, as required by taxi services. Both Uber and the taxi industry supported the regulations, which provided certainty.\n\nUber was launched on November 22, 2016 in Dhaka, but within 36 hours of its launching, Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA) declared it illegal. Uber and other TNCs lobbied the government to legalize TNCs. Though the government ban was still on effect, the TNCs operated in the city. On December 3, 2017, the BRTA formulated a guideline for TNCs and most of the TNCs were given operating licenses by February 2018.\n\nThe CNG Auto-rickshaw Drivers of Dhaka and Chittagong implemented a strike action on December 27–28, 2017 with 8 demands that included a ban on TNCs. They faced a huge backlash from general public as the CNG auto-rickshaw drivers are notoriously known for overcharging passengers, breaking traffic rules, and misconduct with passengers. In early 2018, a large faction CNG auto-rickshaw drivers decided to join Uber and the TNCs, which operate auto-rickshaw service.\n\nIn April 2014, Uber was banned in Brussels, and the company was threatened with fines of €10,000 if it offers fares to drivers who are not in possession of a taxi license. Bruxelles-Mobilite, the city's federal region administration responsible for infrastructure and traffic, impounded 13 cars aligned with Uber after March 2014 and a spokesperson for the body described the service as \"illegal\" in June 2014. The spokesperson also said in a public statement that Bruxelles-Mobilite was generally addressing the issue of illegal taxi drivers in a sector that was difficult to regulate. Although already banned in Brussels, Uber advertised for a Brussels-based \"General Manager\" on the \"LinkedIn\" website in June 2014. The advertisement stated that the role was \"by far the most demanding position Uber has to offer.\"\n\nIn October 2015, Uber suspended its UberPOP service, but continued to operate its UberX service, which uses licensed drivers. In March 2018, taxi drivers protested, blocking roads, demanding the government drop plans to make it easier for TNCs to operate.\n\nOn April 29, 2015, a Brazilian court banned Uber in response to complaints by a taxi drivers' union. The court also ordered Apple Inc., Google Inc., Microsoft, and Samsung Electronics to prevent installation and use of the Uber mobile app by Brazilian residents. A few weeks later, the order was revoked, allowing Uber to operate normally.\n\nOn July 24, 2015, 1,000 taxi drivers in Rio de Janeiro blocked traffic during the morning rush hour. Lawmakers voted to ban Uber in São Paulo and Brasilia.\n\nIn October 2015, Fernando Haddad, the mayor of São Paulo, signed a bill to allow for a new category of \"black taxis\" which would operate in parallel to the city's existing licensed taxis but only be bookable via mobile phone apps. Uber rejected the proposal.\n\nIn late 2015, an Uber driver was beaten by taxi drivers in Brazil, and similar attacks followed.\n\nUber began operations in Sofia in December 2014. In September 2015, a court upheld fines imposed on Uber for unfair trade practices and Uber subsequently stopped service in Bulgaria.\n\nUber drivers in Canada are required \"to register, collect and remit HST/GST from their fares to the government\", regardless of their income.\n\nOn December 5, 2012, Toronto officials charged Uber with 25 municipal licensing infractions, including operation of an unlicensed taxi brokerage and unlicensed limousine service. Municipal officials said they had advised the company to comply with local regulations and that rival taxi dispatch apps had obtained licenses. Despite support from some quarters including mayor John Tory, Toronto Police Service launched a crackdown on Uber drivers. In July 2015, a $400M class-action lawsuit was filed against UberX and UberXL in Toronto on behalf of Ontario taxi and limo drivers, brokers, and owners, who alleged that Uber violated section 39.1 of the province's Highway Traffic Act by having unlicensed drivers picking up passengers and transporting them for compensation. In March 2016, Sukhvir Tehethi, a local taxi driver, filed an injunction against Uber to stop it from operating. A Toronto city councillor warned that passengers using UberX may be fined up to $20,000. On March 3, 2016, after hours of heated debate, the City Council of Toronto passed a bylaw allowing UberX to operate legally in the city with conditions, while also cutting regulations for taxis.\n\nEdmonton officials unveiled a proposed TNC bylaw on September 9, 2015 to permit Uber to operate legally in Edmonton. Uber opposed the accompanying regulations. Uber was legalized in Edmonton on Wednesday, January 27, 2016 effective as of March 1, 2016. However, Uber ceased operations in Edmonton on March 1, 2016, citing inability to obtain the necessary insurance. Uber continued to operate outside of Edmonton despite lack of insurance or proper licensing of their drivers.\n\nIn 2015, Calgary, Alberta charged at least 17 drivers illegally driving for Uber without insurance. Uber was given clearance to operate in Calgary in December 2016.\n\nUber continues to negotiate with the government of Quebec after the government issued regulations requiring drivers to undergo 35 hours of training and a background check.\n\nOn August 21, 2015, Uber started operations in Costa Rica and multiple Uber drivers were immediately attacked by taxi drivers.\n\nIn December 2014, in Chongqing, police raided a training session organised by Uber that was attended by more than 20 drivers. In April 2015, Chinese authorities raided the offices of Uber in Guangzhou, Guangdong.\n\nOn May 6, 2015, local police raided Uber's offices in Chengdu, in Sichuan province.\n\nIn 2016, Uber sold its Chinese operations to Didi.\n\nBefore Uber began operations in Croatia, the Sustainable Development of Croatia party and major taxi service companies were against it, stating that the price of Uber service doesn't compensate the drivers enough for gas, car maintenance, passenger insurance, nor health and retirement insurance for the driver, and Uber prices also don't include VAT nor surtax. In October 2015, Uber initiated service in Zagreb. In June 2016, the Uber started operating in Split, Croatia and Dubrovnik. In September 2016, a group of taxi drivers attacked a Uber driver who was waiting for a passenger at Zagreb Airport. The Uber driver canceled the ride before the passenger arrived and drove away, with the attackers following him. The attack was filmed by the victim and reported to the Law enforcement in Croatia.\n\nThe biggest protests against Uber in Prague took place in February 2018, when the taxi drivers drove forth and back along the highway. This was repeated for several days. Roads in Prague was also occupied by taxi drivers in October 2017 when they protested near the airport. Uber's activity in Brno was preliminarily stopped by the regional court in July 2017, but in October 2017, a higher court canceled the measure. In March 2018, Uber concluded an agreement with the Czech government. Drivers under this agreement will have to be licensed as taxi drivers.\n\nAfter Uber Black and UberPop were launched in Copenhagen in November 2014, the Danish Transport Authority filed a complaint accusing Uber of operating illegally. In January 2015, Denmark's transport minister stated that, although he was not opposed to Uber, the app was \"contrary\" to Danish law—consumer safety and employee training were identified as the key concerns.\n\nIn July 2016, 6 Uber drivers were convicted for offering taxi services without license. Police also charged more than 48 Uber drivers for unlicensed taxi driving.\n\nOn November 18, 2016, the Østre Landsret ruled that Uber is an illegal taxi service.\n\nUber shut operations in Denmark in April 2017.\n\nAfter several protests, sit-ins, and violent attacks by taxi operators in 2016 and a lawsuit filed in March 2018, the Egyptian government legalized Uber and Careem in May 2018. The regulations require the TNCs to pay license fees and share user data with the government.\n\nOn June 11, 2014, in a concerted action, taxis blocked roads in major European cities in protest against what they perceived as a threat to their livelihoods from TNCs. The cabbies contended that Uber and similar smartphone app-based services have an unfair advantage because they are not subject to the same kinds of fees and regulations placed on taxis.\n\nIn December 2017, the European Court of Justice ruled that Uber is a transport company, subject to local transport regulation in European Union member states, rather than a information society service as Uber had argued.\n\nUber launched UberPop in Helsinki in 2014. In September 2016, the Helsinki Court of Appeal deemed Uber illegal, as the company was did not have a taxi license. Drivers faced criminal prosecution.\n\nIn 2018, Uber was legalized in Finland.\n\nOn January 13, 2014, cab drivers in Paris attacked an Uber driver's car near Charles de Gaulle Airport, protesting competition.\n\nOn October 17, 2014, a court ruled that Uber was illegal and stated that UberPop violated a pre-existent regulation that bans carpooling for profit and fined Uber €100,000.\n\nOn December 12, 2014, a French court ruled that Uber could not advertise some of its services to the general public in France; if it did so, it would face a $25,000 daily fine.\n\nEffective January 1, 2015, UberPop was banned under the provisions of the Thévenoud Law, which requires anyone carrying passengers for hire to be licensed and have insurance.\n\nBy February 23, 2015 about 100 drivers, mostly first-time offenders, had been ticketed.\n\nUberPool remained operational in Paris and continued to aggressively recruit French drivers and passengers.\n\nOn June 25, 2015, cab drivers in Paris \"locked down\" Paris in an anti-Uber protest that became increasingly violent. Musician Courtney Love got caught in the protest and live tweeted as her Uber cab was violently attacked and she and her driver were held hostage.\n\nIn June 2015, French authorities arrested 2 Uber managers on 6 charges, including \"deceptive commercial practices\", complicity in instigating an illegal taxi-driving activity, and the illegal stocking of personal information.\n\nOn July 5, 2015, Uber suspended UberPop in the face of pressure by the French government while awaiting a court decision.\n\nOn September 22, 2015, France's highest constitutional authority rejected Uber's appeal of a law banning UberPop.\n\nIn June 2016, a Paris court fined Uber €800,000, half suspended, for illegally running its UberPop service in 2015.\n\nIn early 2014, Berlin authorities ruled against Uber—which operated in the German cities of Berlin, Munich, Frankfurt, Hamburg, and Düsseldorf—on two occasions following a case filed by the Berlin Taxi Association. The first ruling, delivered by a court in April 2014, deemed Uber's limousine service to be in breach of local legislation, while an August 13, 2014 decision banned the service from operating in Berlin due to safety concerns—the latter decision, which included a €25,000 fine for non-compliance, cited issues pertaining to unregulated vehicles and unqualified drivers who are not properly insured.\n\nOn August 28, 2014, a court in Frankfurt issued an immediate cease and desist order against Uber following an appeal from Taxi Deutschland. The preliminary injunction applied to all of Germany and included a fine of €250,000 per ride for non-compliance. If the injunction was breached, Uber's German-based employees could be jailed for up to 6 months and the company could be fined. UberBLACK was not affected by the ruling.\n\nOn September 16, 2014, the district court of Frankfurt revoked the preliminary injunction, thereby re-allowing Uber to operate in Germany. The presiding judge wrote that the Taxi Deutschland case \"would have had prospects for success\", but the case was merely lodged too late, as any case needs to be filed within two months of a service's launch—Uber started in Germany in April 2014, but the case was filed in August 2014.Taxi Deutschland appealed the ruling.\n\nOn March 18, 2015, a Frankfurt district court imposed a nationwide ban on UberPop, claiming that drivers do not have proper licensing and insurance. Each violation of this order would be subject to a €250,000 fine.\n\nUber then limited its operations to its UberX and UberBLACK services, which requires drivers that hold passenger transport licenses.\n\nOn August 11, 2015, Hong Kong Police raided Uber's office after arresting 5 drivers in a sting operation aimed at combating illegal taxis. Two more drivers were arrested on the next day. However, the Hong Kong government investment agency, InvestHK, had endorsed Uber as one of its \"success stories\" on its website, although the endorsement was later removed.\n\nOn March 15, 2018, a group of local taxi drivers protested outside the Hong Kong Police Headquarters, requesting for actions to be taken on those \"unlicensed taxis\". They accused Uber from using false and misleading documents to lie to the public. On the same day, another group of taxi drivers protested by honking their horns for 30 seconds in Admiralty, Hong Kong at noon. They also threatened to flood the area with their vehicles if no actions are taken by the government.\n\nIn April 2018, Uber suspended service in Greece after regulations were implemented that require all rides to begin and end in the fleet partner's designated headquarters or parking area.\n\nIn July 2016, Uber was ruled to be an illegal taxi service in Hungary and subsequently suspended operations.\n\nThe Hyderabad road transport authority banned Uber cabs a day after the Indian Ministry of Home Affairs advised all states to stop the operation of TNCs. A spokesman for the authority said that Uber did not hold a license to operate in the city, and asked the public to cease using Uber.\n\nAfter Home Minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament on December 9, 2014 that he had advised all states and Union territories to ban unregistered and unlicensed cab services, the state government of Karnataka banned Uber on December 11, 2014.\n\nIn December 2014, following allegations of rape against an Uber driver in New Delhi, Uber was banned from New Delhi for not following the city's compulsory police verification procedure. The driver had been charged, then acquitted, of a prior sexual assault in 2011. Within two days of the rape incident, almost 7,000 people signed a petition calling on Uber to conduct mandatory 7-year background checks on drivers, in line with its U.S. operations. Delhi's transport department banned Uber. Uber issued a statement stating that it would work with the Indian government \"to establish clear background checks currently absent in their commercial transportation licensing programs.\"\n\nIn banning Uber, Delhi's transport department cited several rules that Uber had broken. According to New Delhi's Radio Taxi Scheme, 2006, all taxi licensees must be either a company under the Companies Act, 2013 (or the 1956 Act), or a society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860. Furthermore, taxi services must provide adequate parking space for all taxis, as well as sufficiently sized office space to accommodate the control room, the maintenance of a minimum fleet size per license (500 vehicles), and all vehicles must be fitted with GPS/GPRS tracking systems (to be in constant communication with the control room while on duty). The rules also stipulate that the taxi licensee is responsible for ensuring the quality of drivers, including police verifications, supervision, and employee behaviour.\n\nUber is faced with limits to the number of drivers that are allowed to operate.but now its operating in New Delhi.\n\nOn March 22, 2016, thousands of taxi drivers in Jakarta demonstrated against Uber and a similar service, Grab. Several places were targeted during the protests, including the Istana Merdeka, the DPR/MPR Building, and the Ministry of Communication and Informatics central office. Taxi drivers accused that Grab and Uber were causing them to receive smaller daily incomes due to the rising number of app users. The demonstrators also demanded that the government ban the apps and issue a governmental decree concerning this problem.\n\nOn April 9, 2018, Uber stopped its operations in Indonesia as a result of its merger with Grab.\n\nUber first introduced a limited service in the Tel Aviv area in August 2014. However, in November 2017 the Tel Aviv District Court issued a permanent injunction against Uber's utilizing private cars in Israel on the grounds that these lacked the insurance coverage of regulated taxis. Uber was allowed to provide its service in licensed taxis as do other crowd-sourced ride-hailing companies such as Gett. Although Uber had the support of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, the court ruled for the taxi companies and drivers who opposed Uber.\n\nOn May 25, 2015, Italian judge dott. Claudio Marangoni banned the UberPop app for unfair competition practices.\n\nIn February 2017, Italian taxi drivers implemented a strike action.\n\nOn April 6, 2017, Italian judge dott. Alfredo Landi banned the UberBlack, Uber-Lux, Uber-SUV, Uber-X, Uber-XL, UberSelect and Uber-Van app throughout Italy for unfair competition practices.\n\nIn November 2017, Italian taxi drivers implemented another nationwide strike action.\n\nIn September 2018, Uber struck a deal with the Fuji Taxi Group to let users hail cabs through its app in Nagoya. Uber initially started with 350 cabs.\n\nOn December 8, 2014, Dutch judges banned UberPop and implemented a €100,000 fine and the €40,000 fine for drivers who are apprehended. At first Uber continued operating, but Uber shut down its service in November 2015 after office raids by Dutch authorities.\n\nOn October 15, 2014, five Uber drivers were involved in a crackdown by the Road Transport Department (JPJ), under the Ops Teksi Uber 2014 operation—which began on October 1. The 4 other vehicles were returned to their respective owners—with their documents confiscated pending further investigation by the Land Public Transport Commission (SPAD). Due to a wide range of circumstances, the 4 vehicles could be returned to owners should proper documents and other factors correlate. On October 17, 2014, JPJ continued its crackdown on drivers. Between October 2014 and October 2015, the Land Public Transport Commission impounded 44 Uber vehicles, using many methods such as tracking the vehicles using Uber's app. It was also reported that some taxi drivers have taken it upon themselves to nab Uber drivers and turn them over to the police.\n\nIn July 2017, legislation was passed to legalize Uber.\n\nIn January 2015, several Uber vehicles were stopped by New Zealand police, claiming that Uber was in violation of the Land Transport Act. Two Uber drivers were charged with violating the Land Transport Act and face fines of up to NZ$10,000.\n\nOn January 20, 2015, the Associate Transport Minister, Craig Foss, said that the rules covering taxis and private hire services, including Uber, will be reviewed by New Zealand officials by mid-2015.\n\nIn April and May 2016 the New Zealand Transport Authority (NZTA) sent warnings to 17 Uber drivers who did not comply with current regulations.\n\nOn August 3, 2017, Uber New Zealand GM, Richard Menzies, announced that Uber is formally recognized as part of the public transport mix, meaning it can legally operate in New Zealand. Uber Eats was later launched in New Zealand that year.\n\nUber began operations in Norway in 2014.\n\nAccording to the Norwegian Professional Transport Act, a taxi license is required to charge for passenger transport \"addressed to general public on public space\" In 2015, an Uber driver was acquitted because the court found that communication through a mobile app was not to be regarded as \"public space.\"\n\nOn October 30, 2017, Uber suspended its UberPOP service in Oslo, continuing to operate UberBLACK and UberXL service.\n\nOn October 23, 2014, despite the recommendation of the Metropolitan Manila Development Authority, the Philippine Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) imposed a ₱120,000 (US$2,676) to ₱200,000 (US$4,460) fine for the use of the Uber app. A spokesperson for the board said that the fines were issued because Uber did not have an approved franchise to operate in the country. The LTFRB also remarked that Uber can still operate in Metro Manila if the House of Representatives of the Philippines grants the company a proper legislative franchise.\n\nOn October 30, 2014, after an intervention from the Department of Transportation and Communications, the LTFRB temporarily suspended its campaign of apprehending Uber vehicles.\n\nAmid opposition from taxi companies, On May 10, 2015, TNCs gained legal ground to operate, with the country's Department of Transportation and Communications giving them a new classification as The Transportation Network Vehicle Service. The country requires a GPS system installed, a young fleet of vehicles, and the appropriate permits. Taxis were also given a chance to compete by also giving them a sub-classification that matches features found in Uber and other similar services. On August 19, 2015, Uber complied and secured government registration to become the country's second TNC after Grab]]. Individual vehicle operators however still need to undergo separate registrations with the LTFRB.\n\nThe service was suspended for a month on August 14, 2017 due to the defiance of LTFRB's order on not to accredit drivers in their systems starting July 26, 2017.\n\nFollowing the commencement of Uber services in Warsaw in 2014, Jaroslaw Iglikowski, chief of the Union of Warsaw Taxi Drivers, said: \"We will put pressure on politicians, and demand that they change the regulations [for firms offering taxi services].\"\n\nIn 2015, following protests by taxi drivers, laws were modified so that Uber drivers do not enjoy a regulatory advantage over taxi drivers.\n\nIn June 2017, after a protest by 2,000 taxi drivers, Deputy Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced that Poland may impose more regulations on Uber.\n\nOn April 29, 2016, a protest including 2,000 taxi drivers took place in major cities in Portugal. In December 2017, Uber was ruled to be illegal in Portugal.\n\nIn May 2015, the Romanian Parliament adopted a law which banned transport services by unauthorized drivers, effectively making Uber illegal; however, Uber continues to operate in Romania as it battles in the courts.\n\nIn March 2017, Saudi Arabia banned Uber and Careem from picking up at the airport, citing license requirements. Saudi Arabia had earlier banned the TNCs from allowing non-Saudis to register as drivers.\n\nOn February 10, 2017, the Singapore Land Transport Authority (LTA)ruled that private hire cars who used Uber or Grab service are not exempted from the child seat requirement. For safety reasons, all vehicles in Singapore must have booster seats or child restraints for passengers under 1.35m in height.\n\nIn March 2017, LTA introduced a new regulation for private hire cars called Private Hire Car Driver's Vocational Licence (PDVL) which took effect in July 2017. This is to ensure that commuter's interest is better protected.\n\nIn April 2018, Uber shut down services in Singapore as a result of its merger with Grab.\n\nOver 300 vehicles operating for the Uber service in Cape Town were impounded in 2015. Local transport officials claimed that the service was operating without suitable permits.\n\nIn Cape Town, on June 3, 2016, metered taxi drivers blockaded the road to the city's airport and forced passengers out of vehicles whilst attacking Uber drivers.\n\nIn July 2018, in Johannesburg, Uber and taxi drivers initiated a strike action, blocking roads and, in 3 cases, taking the hones of drivers that did not participate in the strike.\n\nIn August 2018, Uber opposed a new law that would prohibit the company for allowing drivers to operate without a license, subject to a fine up up to R100,000, claiming that many drivers were facing delays in getting permits from government agencies.\n\nThe Seoul city government released an official statement in July 2014 expressing its intention to ban Uber. The government stated that South Korean law prohibits fee-paying transport services that use unregistered private or rented vehicles, and a Seoul driver received a one-million won (US$974) fine in April 2014 after using Uber to solicit customers in a rented car. The city government also initiated a police investigation of Uber in June 2014, but the request was suspended due to a lack of evidence; however, the July statement indicated that the investigation would be recommenced.\n\nIn December 2014, Uber announced that the Seoul Central District Prosecutors' Office had issued an indictment against both the company and Kalanick in regard to the violation of a Korean law prohibiting individuals or firms without appropriate license from providing or facilitating transportation services.\n\nIn March 2015, Uber suspended its UberX service in Korea after disputes with officials.\n\nOn December 9, 2014, In the absence of any legal provision for private hire, a judge ordered Uber to cease all activities in Spain. In a statement after the ruling, the Spanish court stated that drivers \"lack the administrative authorisation to carry out the job, and the activity they carry out constitutes unfair competition.\" The company suspended its operations in Spain on December 30, 2014.\n\nUber restarted operations in Spain in March 2016, this time using only licensed drivers.\n\nIn March 2018, the Federal Department of Economic Affairs, Education and Research, gave the legal opinion that under the conditions that bind drivers to Uber that they should be classified as employees.\n\nAs of December 6, 2014, Uber Taiwan had received over NT$1,000,000 in fines for operating illegally, including a cease and desist of the app, on December 5, 2014. Issues included failure to insure vehicles, operating like a business without a business license, metered fares unknown to passengers, metered fares not inspected by the Ministry of Transportation and Communication, and failure to report income and pay taxes. Many drivers had their licenses suspended for violations. In December 2014, the Ministry of Transportation and Communications announced that the company was operating unlicensed taxis in violation of national law, and that the government was considering blocking the service.\n\nUber was fined 231 million Taiwan dollars ($7.4 million) over two weeks after new rules introduced on January 6, 2017. On February 2, 2017, Uber announced it will suspend its service in Taiwan after the fines.\n\nIn April 2017, Uber restarted service in Taiwan.\n\nOn June 2, 2018, following pressure from Istanbul taxi drivers, President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan said that Uber is finished in Turkey.\n\nFollowing concerns raised by taxi drivers in Thailand over Uber's lower rates, Uber was declared illegal on November 28, 2014 under Thailand's Motor Vehicle Act B.E. 2522, claiming that Uber vehicles are not properly registered in Thailand, Thai Uber drivers are not properly licensed, and that Uber discriminates against people who do not possess credit cards. Following the announcement, Uber drivers faced a maximum 4,000-baht fine if caught by police.\n\nIn March 2016, Uber was forced to shut its motor bike taxi service.\n\nIn April 2018, Uber shut down its operations in Thailand as a result of its merger with Grab.\n\nIn January 2017, after a long spat with regulators, Uber signed an agreement with the Roads and Transport Authority of Dubai. Under this deal, Uber is entitled to deploy about 14,000 vehicles around the city.\n\nOn October 28, 2016, in the case of \"Aslam v Uber BV\", the Central London Employment tribunal ruled that Uber drivers are \"workers\", rather than self-employed individuals, and are entitled to the minimum wage under the National Minimum Wage Act 1998, paid holiday, and other normal worker entitlements. Two Uber drivers had brought the test case to the employment tribunal with the assistance of the GMB Union, on behalf of a group of drivers in London. Uber appealed the decision.Two Uber drivers had brought the case to the employment tribunal with the assistance of the GMB Union on 20 July 2016. On November 10, the court upheld the ruling against Uber's appeal, although the company announced it would launch a new appeal.\n\nOn 11 June 2014, London-based Hackney carriage (black cab) drivers, members of the Licensed Taxi Drivers Association, disrupted traffic as a protest against Transport for London's refusal to stop Uber's calculation of fares based on distance and time taken, as they claimed it infringes upon their right to be the sole users of taximeters in London. The following week, London mayor Boris Johnson stated it would be \"difficult\" for him to ban Uber \"without the risk of a judicial review\"; however, he expressed sympathy for the view of the black-cab drivers. On October 16, 2015, after Transport for London brought a case to the High Court of Justice to determine whether the way Uber's app calculates a fare falls under the definition of a taximeter, it was ruled that the app is legal in London.\n\nOn September 22, 2017 Transport for London announced that it would not renew the license of Uber's local service provider, which was due to expire at the end of that month. Transport for London declared that Uber London Limited was not \"fit and proper\" to hold a private hire operator license, citing concerns over the company's approach to reporting serious criminal offences, obtaining medical certificates and Disclosure and Barring Service checks, and the use of Greyball. Uber indicated that it would appeal the decision. On June 26, 2018 Westminster Magistrates' Court granted a license for 15 months with additional conditions. Uber had applied for a 5-year license.\n\nOn December 12, 2017 York's Gambling, Licensing & Regulatory Committee voted to deny the renewal of Uber's license due to a data breach in 2016 and several complaints against the company and drivers. Uber appealed with QC Philip Kolvin, taking City of York Council to the Magistrates.\n\nUber withdrew from the appeal on March 14, 2018 with the plan to reapply for the license.\n\nOn May 1, 2018, Brighton and Hove City Council's licensing panel refused to renew Uber's private hire operator license in the city. It cited \"significant concerns\" about the car hailing app's data breach in 2016, and whether the company was adhering to its commitment to use only Brighton and Hove licensed drivers in the city. Uber said it would appeal.\n\nUber developed an internal software tool called Greyball, which uses data collected from the Uber mobile app other means, to avoid giving rides to certain individuals. The tool was used starting in 2014. By showing \"ghost cars\" driven by fake drivers to the targeted individuals in the Uber mobile app, and by giving real drivers a means to cancel rides requested by those individuals, Uber was able to avoid giving rides to known law enforcement officers in areas where its service is illegal. Investigative journalism by \"The New York Times\" and the resulting report, published on March 3, 2017, made public Uber's use of Greyball since 2014, describing it as a way to evade city code enforcement officials in Portland, Oregon, Australia, South Korea, and China. At first, in response to the report, Uber stated that Greyball was designed to deny rides to users who violate Uber's terms of service, including those involved in sting operations. According to Uber, Greyball can \"hide the standard city app view for individual riders, enabling Uber to show that same rider a different version\". Uber reportedly used Greyball to identify government officials through factors such as whether a user frequently opens the app near government offices, a review of social media profiles by Uber employees to identify law enforcement personnel, and the credit cards associated with the Uber account.\n\nOn March 8, 2017, Uber admitted that it had used Greyball to thwart government regulators and pledged to stop using the service for that purpose.\n\nIn May 2017, the United States Department of Justice opened a criminal investigation into Uber's use of Greyball to avoid local law enforcement operations.\n\nThe United States Department of Labor issued guidelines in July 2015 to deal with, what it considers, \"misclassification\" of workers. It argues that any \"worker who is 'economically dependent' on the employer should be treated as an employee. By contrast, a worker must be in business for himself or herself to be an independent contractor.\" The guideline was non-binding, but is expected to have some influence in various court cases which may establish new common law on the issue.\n\nIn January 2017, Uber agreed to pay $20 million to the US government to resolve accusations by the Federal Trade Commission of having misled drivers about potential earnings.\n\nAccording to a February 2017 lawsuit filed by Waymo, owned by an affiliate of Google, ex-Google employee Anthony Levandowski allegedly \"downloaded 9.7 GB of Waymo's highly confidential files and trade secrets, including blueprints, design files and testing documentation\" before resigning to found Otto, which was purchased by Uber. A ruling in May 2017 required Uber to return documents to Waymo. The trial began February 5, 2018. A settlement was announced February 8, 2018 with Uber giving Waymo $244 million in Uber equity and an agreement to ensure Uber does not infringe Waymo's intellectual property.\n\nIn 2017 a lawsuit was filed alleging that Uber uses \"sophisticated software\" to defraud both drivers and passengers. According to the suit, under the upfront pricing model, when a passenger is quoted a price the app shows a longer more expensive route, meanwhile would-be drivers are shown a shorter cheaper route. The passenger is charged for the more expensive route, while the driver is paid the cheaper, with Uber pocketing the difference.\n\nIn March 2018, a lawsuit was filed against Uber in the United States accusing the company's drivers of not serving a woman with cerebral palsy due to her service dog in violation of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Texas Human Resources Code.\n\nIn September 2015, Uber paid the State of Alaska $77,925 and paused operations in Anchorage. The state argued that Uber was misclassifying drivers as contractors instead of employees, which was illegal.\n\nIn May 2011, Uber received a cease-and-desist letter from the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency, claiming it was operating an unlicensed taxi service, and another legal demand from the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) that it was operating an unlicensed limousine dispatch. Both claimed criminal violations and demanded that the company cease operations. In response, the company, among other things, changed its name from UberCab to Uber. In the fall of 2012, the CPUC issued a cease-and-desist letter to Uber, Lyft, and SideCar, and fined each $20,000. However, an interim agreement was reached in 2013 reversing those actions.\n\nIn June 2013, Lyft, Uber and Sidecar were served with cease and desist letters by the Los Angeles Department of Transportation.\n\nIn September 2013, the CPUC unanimously voted to make the agreement permanent, creating a new category of service called transportation network company to cover Lyft, UberX, SideCar, and Summon, thereby making California the first jurisdiction to recognize such services.\n\nOn September 17, 2014, California's Governor approved the \"Assembly Bill No. 2293\" bill that became effective on July 1, 2015. The bill amended \"the Passenger Charter-party Carriers' Act to enact specified requirements for liability insurance coverage for transportation network companies, as defined, and their participating drivers.\" The driver under the law is defined as \"any person who uses a vehicle in connection with a transportation network company's online-enabled application or platform to connect with passengers.\" The stated minimum insurance requirement ranges from US$50,000 to $100,000 for death and injuries per individual or incident, and stipulates US$30,000 for property damage. As a breach of the bill is classified as a criminal act, a corresponding \"state-mandated local program\" will be implemented.\n\nIn April 2016, a case that was originally filed on December 9, 2014, by the district attorneys of both Los Angeles, California, and San Francisco was resolved. Prosecutors claimed that Uber made misleading statements about the background checks it performs on drivers and falsely charged a \"safe ride fee.\" The case was resolved when Uber agreed to no longer claim to be the \"safest ride on the road\", change the name of the \"safe ride fee\" to \"booking fee\", and pay $10 million. San Francisco's city attorneys had previously settled out of court with Lyft over similar allegations.\n\nOn December 14, 2016, the California Department of Motor Vehicles demanded that Uber cease its autonomous car program in San Francisco or obtain a licence, threatening legal action. Following the invitation of tech enthusiast and Arizona Governor Doug Ducey, Uber decided to move its fleet to Phoenix, Arizona.\n\nIn a class action lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California on August 16, 2013, Uber drivers plead that they were employees who had been misclassified as independent contractors in violation of the California Labor Code and demanded that they be given payment of business expenses such as gas and maintenance of their vehicles. In March 2015, District Judge Edward M. Chen ruled that the case will be resolved by a jury, dismissing a motion for summary judgement. On September 1, 2015, Chen certified the class but generally limited it to drivers in California hired before June 2014, when an opt-out arbitration clause was included in the contract, who had directly contracted with Uber.\n\nIn June 2014, Colorado became the first state to pass rules for TNCs through the legislative process, when S 125 was signed into law.\n\nIn September 2014, a class-action lawsuit was filed by taxicab drivers claiming that Uber drivers were not properly licensed. The lawsuit was dismissed by the Georgia Supreme Court.\n\nOn October 5, 2012, Uber was sued by the taxi and livery companies in Chicago. Uber was accused of violating Chicago city laws and Illinois state laws designed to protect public safety, consumer protection, and fair practices. Regulations affecting TNCs were approved in December 2014.\n\nOn August 1, 2012, the Massachusetts Division of Standards issued a cease-and-desist letter to Uber on the grounds that the GPS-based smartphone app was not a certified measurement device, but on August 15, the agency reversed its ruling after prodding by Governor Deval Patrick, saying that technique was satisfactory because it was under study by the National Institute of Standards and Technology.\n\nUber worked out an arrangement with the city of Boston to share quarterly data on the duration, locations, and times of day in which riders used the app to travel in or out of the city. This information was first delivered to the city in February 2015, and the report kept all individual user data private.\n\nThe legislature passed a law formally legalizing and regulating TNCs in July 2016. The law requires background checks, vehicle decals and inspections, insurance, state certification of drivers; prohibits increased fares during a declared emergency or for passengers with disabilities; requires drivers to be 21 or older; and sets up a complaint process and commission to review the economics of the whole ride-for-hire industry. Unlike taxis, TNC vehicles are prohibited from \"cruising\" for passengers on streets. The law also establishes a $0.20 per-ride charge, which is distributed to cities and towns for transportation and ride-for-hire economic development purposes.\n\nIn December 2016, Michigan instituted regulations on TNCs.\n\nIn July 2014, the Minneapolis City Council voted almost unanimously to legalize TNCs.\n\nOn November 25, 2014, Washoe County, Nevada District Court Judge Scott Freeman, issued a preliminary injunction preventing Uber from operating statewide. The temporary injunction was based on the company's failure to file a certificate of public convenience and necessity, which is required for every transportation service in Nevada. The Government of Nevada also claimed that Uber's screening process was not rigorous enough to protect consumers, and failed to conform with the aforementioned regulations. Uber contested the ruling, arguing that it is an app-based technology company rather than a transportation company, but the company's management made the decision to temporarily shut down its Nevada operations. Nevada legalized TNCs in May 2015.\n\nLegislation passed in 2016 in New Hampshire requires each TNC (not each driver) to pay an annual fee of $500. It also includes requirements that each TNC get a permit from the state, obtain a driver history report on each driver that meets the provisions of the law, and require their drivers to have liability insurance.\n\nUberX was suspended in New York City in October 2012 after pressure from the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission. Uber's premium sedan service was not affected.\n\nIn January 2017, the New York City Taxi Workers Alliance called for a halt in pickups from JFK Airport in New York City in response to Donald Trump's Executive Order 13769, which banned entry to the United States from citizens of 7 predominately Muslim countries. Uber users accused the company of attempting to profit from the strike and were angered that Uber did not halt pickups from JFK Airport in solidarity. Some users deleted the Uber app from their phones. Kalanick responded by signing an open letter to President Donald Trump that requested he rescind his executive order.\n\nIn May 2017, after a class action lawsuit was filed by the New York Taxi Workers Alliance (NYTWA) in federal court in New York, Uber admitted to underpaying New York City drivers tens of millions of dollars over 2.5 years by calculating driver commissions on a net amount. Uber agreed to pay the amounts owed plus interest.\n\nIn February 2017, the New York State Senate approved legislation allowing TNCs to expand operations to Upstate New York and Uber began service there in June 2017.\n\nIn September 2015, Governor Pat McCrory signed a law regulating TNCs. It also forbids the establishment by county and municipal governments of additional regulations upon TNCs and drivers.\n\nOn December 8, 2014, Portland, Oregon sued Uber, claiming that Uber violates the city's Private for Hire Transportation Regulations and Administrative Rules. The court was asked to stop Uber from operating in Portland. Uber suspended its operations in the city for 3 months, pending planned changes to local regulations.\n\nOn March 6, 2017, the City of Portland, Oregon announced an investigation into whether Uber had used its Greyball software tool to obstruct the enforcement of city regulations. The investigation by the Portland Bureau of Transportation (PBOT) found that:\n\nFollowing the release of the audit, Portland's commissioner of police suggested that the city subpoena Uber in order to force the company to turn over information on how Uber used software to evade regulatory officials.\n\nOn July 1, 2014, after implementing fines on Uber and Lyft, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission imposed a cease-and-desist order on the companies.\n\nIn June 2015, Uber drivers became eligible to pick up riders at Pittsburgh International Airport.\n\nIn December 2014, Checker Cab Philadelphia and 44 other taxi companies in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania filed a lawsuit alleging that Uber was operating illegally in the city. On March 3, 2015, U.S. District Judge Nitza I. Quinones Alejandro denied a motion for a preliminary injunction against Uber.\n\nIn January 2016, a $1.5M lawsuit was filed against Uber in Philadelphia by Philadelphia taxicab medallion owners, claiming that Uber engaged in tortious interference and engaged in false advertising under the Lanham Act. The case was dismissed in August 2016.\n\nPhiladelphia legalized TNCs in November 2016.\n\nIn March 2015, UberPOOL began operations in Austin, Texas in advance of the annual South by Southwest festival.\n\nOn May 7, 2016, Uber and Lyft announced they would no longer provide service in Austin after city voters rejected a referendum backed by the TNCs that would have repealed a city ordinance requiring their drivers to submit to fingerprint-based background checks.\n\nIn late 2016, Uber threatened to leave Houston ahead of Super Bowl LI, insisting various city regulations, including fingerprint background checks of drivers, were too burdensome. Houston officials and Uber reached a compromise in December 2016, whereby Houston would continue to require a fingerprint check for drivers but eliminate requirements for driver drug testing and physicals through at least February 5, 2017.\n\nRegulations affecting TNCs were implemented in December 2014.\n\nOn June 5, 2014, the Virginia Department of Motor Vehicles issued a cease-and-desist letter to both Uber and Lyft, demanding they halt operations within Virginia. In February 2015, TNCs were legalized in Virginia.\n\nIn March 2014, to appease taxi drivers, the Seattle City Council passed an ordinance in March 2014 that capped the number of drivers from any TNC on the road at any given time to 150. However, on April 17, 2014, after a coalition obtained 36,000 signatures to put the question to voters in a referendum, Mayor Ed Murray announced a 45-day negotiation process to find an alternative approach. Uber donated over $613,000 to \"Seattle Citizens to Repeal Ordinance 124441\", a political group seeking to overturn the ordinance limiting the number of TNC vehicles in Seattle. In June 2014, the mayor reached a deal to legalize TNCs with no driver limits. The compromise was passed by the city council in July 2014.\n\nIn January 2012, an Uber driver's car was impounded as part of a sting by the Washington, D.C. taxicab commission. The commissioner said the company was operating an unlicensed taxicab service in the city. Following a social media campaign by Uber riders, the D.C. city council voted in July 2012 to formally legalize TNCs, which led to protests by taxicab drivers. The Washington, D.C. City Council passed legislation in September 2013 to allow TNCs to operate.\n\nOn March 30, 2017, taxi drivers protested against Uber and Yandex.Taxi in Lviv.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1632126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1632126", "title": "United Nations Millennium Declaration", "text": "United Nations Millennium Declaration\n\nOn 8 September 2000, following a three-day Millennium Summit of world leaders at the headquarters of the United Nations, the General Assembly\nadopted the Millennium Declaration (Resolution 55/2). A follow-up outcome of the resolution was passed by the General Assembly on 14 December 2000 to guide its implementation. Progress on implementation of the Declaration was reviewed at the 2005 World Summit of leaders. The Declaration includes 8 chapters and 32 paragraphs.\n\nThe Millennium Declaration has eight chapters and key objectives, adopted by 189 world leaders during the summit: The Declaration, after the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, stresses the observance of international human rights law and international humanitarian law under the Principles of United Nations Charter as well as the treaties on sustainable development. The Declaration also urges observance of the Olympic truce individually and collectively.\n\n"}
{"id": "50407271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50407271", "title": "United Sabah Assembly Party", "text": "United Sabah Assembly Party\n\nThe United Sabah Assembly Party or (PUSAKA) is a political party based in Sabah, Malaysia formed by Kalakau Untol in 1977 and dissolved in 1978 after he joined Parti Bersatu Rakyat Jelata Sabah (BERJAYA).\n\n"}
{"id": "48478698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48478698", "title": "Vice President of Bangladesh", "text": "Vice President of Bangladesh\n\nThe Vice-President of Bangladesh was formerly the second highest constitutional office in Bangladesh, when the country was governed under a presidential system. The Vice-President was the first person in the presidential line of succession, in the event of a President's resignation, removal or death. The post was held by several Bangladeshi statesmen during different periods of the country's history. The inaugural office holder was Syed Nazrul Islam during the Bangladesh Liberation War. The final office holder was Shahabuddin Ahmed. Abdus Sattar was the only vice-president to succeed to the presidency in 1981. \n\nThe office was first created in the Provisional Government of Bangladesh in 1971. It was later revived in 1977, abolished in the 1982 coup d'état; and reinstated in 1986. It was abolished again during the Twelfth Amendment to the Constitution. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10399301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10399301", "title": "War referendum", "text": "War referendum\n\nA War referendum is a proposed type of referendum in which citizens decide whether a nation should go to war. No such referendum has taken place.\n\nThe earliest idea of a war referendum came from Marquis de Condorcet in 1793 and Immanuel Kant in 1795.\n\n"}
