{"id": "9702578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9702578", "title": "1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ⋯", "text": "1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ⋯\n\nIn mathematics, 1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ··· is the infinite series whose terms are the successive positive integers, given alternating signs. Using sigma summation notation the sum of the first \"m\" terms of the series can be expressed as\n\nThe infinite series diverges, meaning that its sequence of partial sums, , does not tend towards any finite limit. Nonetheless, in the mid-18th century, Leonhard Euler wrote what he admitted to be a paradoxical equation:\n\nA rigorous explanation of this equation would not arrive until much later. Starting in 1890, Ernesto Cesàro, Émile Borel and others investigated well-defined methods to assign generalized sums to divergent series—including new interpretations of Euler's attempts. Many of these summability methods easily assign to a \"value\" of . Cesàro summation is one of the few methods that do not sum , so the series is an example where a slightly stronger method, such as Abel summation, is required.\n\nThe series 1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ... is closely related to Grandi's series . Euler treated these two as special cases of for arbitrary \"n\", a line of research extending his work on the Basel problem and leading towards the functional equations of what are now known as the Dirichlet eta function and the Riemann zeta function.\n\nThe series' terms (1, −2, 3, −4, ...) do not approach 0; therefore diverges by the term test. For later reference, it will also be useful to see the divergence on a fundamental level. By definition, the convergence or divergence of an infinite series is determined by the convergence or divergence of its sequence of partial sums, and the partial sums of are:\nThis sequence is notable for including every integer exactly once—even 0 if one counts the empty partial sum—and thereby establishing the countability of the set formula_3 of integers. The sequence of partial sums clearly shows that the series does not converge to a particular number (for any proposed limit \"x\", we can find a point beyond which the subsequent partial sums are all outside the interval [\"x\"−1, \"x\"+1]), so diverges.\n\nSince the terms 1, −2, 3, −4, 5, −6, ... follow a simple pattern, the series can be manipulated by shifting and term-by-term addition to yield a numerical value. If it can make sense to write for some ordinary number \"s\", the following manipulations argue for \n\nAlthough 1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ... does not have a sum in the usual sense, the equation can be supported as the most natural answer if such a sum is to be defined. A generalized definition of the \"sum\" of a divergent series is called a summation method or summability method. There are many different methods (some of which are described below) and it is desirable that they share certain properties with ordinary summation. What the above manipulations actually prove is the following: Given any summability method that is linear and stable and sums the series , the sum it produces is . Furthermore, since\n\nsuch a method must also sum Grandi's series as \n\nIn 1891, Ernesto Cesàro expressed hope that divergent series would be rigorously brought into calculus, pointing out, \"One already writes and asserts that both the sides are equal to .\" For Cesàro, this equation was an application of a theorem he had published the previous year, which is the first theorem in the history of summable divergent series. The details on his summation method are below; the central idea is that is the Cauchy product (discrete convolution) of with .\n\nThe Cauchy product of two infinite series is defined even when both of them are divergent. In the case where \"a\" = \"b\" = (−1), the terms of the Cauchy product are given by the finite diagonal sums\n\nThe product series is then\n\nThus a summation method that respects the Cauchy product of two series — and assigns to the series the sum 1/2 — will also assign to the series the sum 1/4. With the result of the previous section, this implies an equivalence between summability of and with methods that are linear, stable, and respect the Cauchy product.\n\nCesàro's theorem is a subtle example. The series is Cesàro-summable in the weakest sense, called while requires a stronger form of Cesàro's theorem, being Since all forms of Cesàro's theorem are linear and stable, the values of the sums are as we have calculated.\n\nTo find the (C, 1) Cesàro sum of 1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ..., if it exists, one needs to compute the arithmetic means of the partial sums of the series.\nThe partial sums are:\n\nand the arithmetic means of these partial sums are:\n\nThis sequence of means does not converge, so 1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ... is not Cesàro summable.\n\nThere are two well-known generalizations of Cesàro summation: the conceptually simpler of these is the sequence of (H, \"n\") methods for natural numbers \"n\". The (H, 1) sum is Cesàro summation, and higher methods repeat the computation of means. Above, the even means converge to , while the odd means are all equal to 0, so the means \"of the means\" converge to the average of 0 and , namely . So is (H, 2) summable to .\n\nThe \"H\" stands for Otto Hölder, who first proved in 1882 what mathematicians now think of as the connection between Abel summation and (H, \"n\") summation; was his first example. The fact that is the (H, 2) sum of guarantees that it is the Abel sum as well; this will also be proved directly below.\n\nThe other commonly formulated generalization of Cesàro summation is the sequence of (C, \"n\") methods. It has been proven that (C, \"n\") summation and (H, \"n\") summation always give the same results, but they have different historical backgrounds. In 1887, Cesàro came close to stating the definition of (C, \"n\") summation, but he gave only a few examples. In particular, he summed to by a method that may be rephrased as (C, \"n\") but was not justified as such at the time. He formally defined the (C, n) methods in 1890 in order to state his theorem that the Cauchy product of a (C, \"n\")-summable series and a (C, \"m\")-summable series is (C, \"m\" + \"n\" + 1)-summable.\n\nIn a 1749 report, Leonhard Euler admits that the series diverges but prepares to sum it anyway:\n\nEuler proposed a generalization of the word \"sum\" several times. In the case of , his ideas are similar to what is now known as Abel summation:\n\nThere are many ways to see that, at least for absolute values , Euler is right in that\nOne can take the Taylor expansion of the right-hand side, or apply the formal long division process for polynomials. Starting from the left-hand side, one can follow the general heuristics above and try multiplying by twice or squaring the geometric series . Euler also seems to suggest differentiating the latter series term by term.\n\nIn the modern view, the series 1 − 2\"x\" + 3\"x\" − 4\"x\" + ... does not define a function at , so that value cannot simply be substituted into the resulting expression. Since the function is defined for all , one can still take the limit as \"x\" approaches 1, and this is the definition of the Abel sum:\n\nEuler applied another technique to the series: the Euler transform, one of his own inventions. To compute the Euler transform, one begins with the sequence of positive terms that makes up the alternating series—in this case The first element of this sequence is labeled \"a\".\n\nNext one needs the sequence of forward differences among ; this is just The first element of \"this\" sequence is labeled Δ\"a\". The Euler transform also depends on differences of differences, and higher iterations, but all the forward differences among are 0. The Euler transform of is then defined as\n\nIn modern terminology, one says that is Euler summable to .\n\nThe Euler summability implies another kind of summability as well. Representing as\n\none has the related everywhere-convergent series\n\nThe Borel sum of 1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ... is therefore\n\nSaichev and Woyczyński arrive at by applying only two physical principles: \"infinitesimal relaxation\" and \"separation of scales\". To be precise, these principles lead them to define a broad family of \"-summation methods\", all of which sum the series to :\n\n\nThis result generalizes Abel summation, which is recovered by letting (\"x\") = exp(−\"x\"). The general statement can be proved by pairing up the terms in the series over \"m\" and converting the expression into a Riemann integral. For the latter step, the corresponding proof for applies the mean value theorem, but here one needs the stronger Lagrange form of Taylor's theorem.\n\nThe threefold Cauchy product of is the alternating series of triangular numbers; its Abel and Euler sum is . The fourfold Cauchy product of is the alternating series of tetrahedral numbers, whose Abel sum is .\n\nAnother generalization of 1 − 2 + 3 − 4 + ... in a slightly different direction is the series for other values of \"n\". For positive integers \"n\", these series have the following Abel sums:\nwhere \"B\" are the Bernoulli numbers. For even \"n\", this reduces to\n\nThis last sum became an object of particular ridicule by Niels Henrik Abel in 1826:\n\nCesàro's teacher, Eugène Charles Catalan, also disparaged divergent series. Under Catalan's influence, Cesàro initially referred to the \"conventional formulas\" for as \"absurd equalities\", and in 1883 Cesàro expressed a typical view of the time that the formulas were false but still somehow formally useful. Finally, in his 1890 \"Sur la multiplication des séries\", Cesàro took a modern approach starting from definitions.\n\nThe series are also studied for non-integer values of \"n\"; these make up the Dirichlet eta function. Part of Euler's motivation for studying series related to was the functional equation of the eta function, which leads directly to the functional equation of the Riemann zeta function. Euler had already become famous for finding the values of these functions at positive even integers (including the Basel problem), and he was attempting to find the values at the positive odd integers (including Apéry's constant) as well, a problem that remains elusive today. The eta function in particular is easier to deal with by Euler's methods because its Dirichlet series is Abel summable everywhere; the zeta function's Dirichlet series is much harder to sum where it diverges. For example, the counterpart of in the zeta function is the non-alternating series , which has deep applications in modern physics but requires much stronger methods to sum.\n\n"}
{"id": "159526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159526", "title": "Anne Fausto-Sterling", "text": "Anne Fausto-Sterling\n\nAnne Fausto-Sterling (born July 30, 1944) is the Nancy Duke Lewis Professor of Biology and Gender Studies at Brown University. She participates actively in the field of sexology and has written extensively on the fields of biology of gender, sexual identity, gender identity, and gender roles.\n\nFausto-Sterling received her Bachelor of Arts degree in zoology from University of Wisconsin in 1965 and her Ph.D. in developmental genetics from Brown University in 1970. She has taught at Brown since earning her Ph.D. and is the Nancy Duke Lewis Professor of Biology and Gender Studies in the Department of Molecular and Cell Biology and Biochemistry there.\n\nShe has written two books intended for the general audience. The second edition of the first of those books, \"Myths of Gender\", was published in 1992.\n\nHer second book for the general public is \"\", published in 2000. She stated that in it she sets out to \"convince readers of the need for theories that allow for a good deal of human variation and that integrate the analytical powers of the biological and the social into the systematic analysis of human development.\"\n\nIn a paper entitled \"The Five Sexes\", in which, according to her, \"I had intended to be provocative, but I had also written with tongue firmly in cheek.\" Fausto-Sterling laid out a thought experiment considering an alternative model of gender containing five sexes: male, female, merm, ferm, and herm. This thought experiment was interpreted by some as a serious proposal or even a theory; advocates for intersex people stated that this theory was wrong, confusing and unhelpful to the interests of intersex people. In a later paper (\"The Five Sexes, Revisited\"), she has acknowledged these objections.\n\nFausto-Sterling serves on the editorial board of the journal \"Perspectives in Biology and Medicine\" and on the advisory board of the feminist academic journal \"Signs\".\n\nFausto-Sterling is married to Paula Vogel, a Yale professor and Pulitzer-winning playwright. Fausto-Sterling's mother, Dorothy Sterling, was a noted writer and historian while her father was also a published writer.\n\n\"Of Gender and Genitals\" is the third chapter of \"Sexing the Body\" by Fausto-Sterling. The chapter starts with a case study description of sickle cell anemia, including hemoglobin and the risk of having hemoglobin-S crystallize, which leads to intense pain and potential paralysis in times of stress. The lecture on sickle cell anemia ends with two simple conclusions: the first is that a slight alteration to a DNA sequence will leave major changes to the DNA on the whole; the second is that traits and defects cannot be easily predicted. Fausto-Sterling's data goes on to state that genes alone do not decide phenotypes; phenotypes are instead decided by the environmental and developmental history of the person, in addition to their total genetic endowment. In the same regard, behavior is not solely decided by only genetics. The data further goes on to state that while the number of nerves is decided in the former half of pregnancy, cellular interconnection continues to multiply and grow throughout the first four years of life. In addition, the mind and temperament of an adult is shaped by the environment he or she is raised in. Factors included, physical fitness, nutrition, and interpersonal relations with other people. Through these studies and analytical work, the following four gender development theories of biological determinist, psychoanalytic, social learning, and cognitive development have been devised.\n\nFollowing a summary of the prior, Fausto-Sterling shows her points on the gender development theories by noting how XY and XX chromosomes stay identical up until the 6th week of development in the womb. During these six weeks, the XY/XX embryos develop an indifferent gonad, an extra layer that isn't affected by the chromosome embryo due to their indistinguishable similarity at the time. This external process develops in a similar manner to the various male and female reproductive organs that later develop within the body. By the end of the first month and a half, all embryos would've developed, regardless of gender. In addition, the chromosomes within the cells will have developed different sets of mesonephric ducts that are indifferent to gender. A set of ducts ultimately becomes the aforementioned reproductive organs based on the sex of the fetus. Once the Y chromosome in the XY embryo triggers, an extensive and lengthy process is detailed on the development of male fetuses. Conversely, far less is known on the development of XX fetuses. What is known about the female XX is that the fetuses produce approximately the same amount of estrogen in comparison to the testosterone production in the male XY. Later down the line of fetus growth, the originally identical genitalia of the two types of fetus will differentiate on the eighth week. In some cases the XY fetus will initially begin to develop female genitals instead of the male penis and scrotum due to a deficiency in dihydrotestosterone. After detailing the opinions of John Money and Julianne Imperato-McGuinely on gender identity, Fausto-Sterling concludes with the three influences that affect gender – genetic regulatory information, intrusion from outside the womb, and \"chance variation\" in development – and two points on sexual development.\"\n\nSex and gender are two separate characterizations of people and a standard model exists for both sex and gender. Biology characterizes sex by dimorphism. In other words, people are either male or female and nothing in between. Surgical procedures ensure that people are assigned to one of the two accepted sexes. Gender, separate from sex, is socially constructed by culture. People determine the definition of gender by assigning roles to each gender. For example, generally, males are expected to work and women are expected to stay home and care for their family. By assigning a specific role to a gender, we have created a standard model of what it means to be male or female. In essence, the standard model characterizes by masculinity and femininity and separates nature and nurture.\n\nIn chapter three of \"Sexing the Body\", \"Of Gender and Genitals\", Fausto-Sterling criticizes the standard model and the way it impacts those both neither male nor female. She explains that doctors surgically assign infants male or female when they are not born with “normal” genitals. Fausto-Sterling believes that as children grow and become either more masculine or feminine “nurture matters a great deal more than nature” because it affects the child's inclinations towards becoming hetero- or homo- sexual. When doctors studied the spectrum of genders, Sterling criticized that “they never questioned the fundamental assumptions that there are only two sexes, because their goal in studying intersexual was to find out more about normal development.” The doctors’ motives for the research of intersexual show that they promote the standard model for sex and are unwilling to accept the fact that there are different variations of sex. Sterling strongly believes that doctors are unethical in that they do not allow variations of sex and immediately assign a sex within a few hours of birth because there is not a way of telling whether the infant will be content with their assigned gender. Furthermore, “whatever treatment they choose…physicians… decide how to manage intersexuality act out of…deeply held beliefs about male and female sexuality [and] gender roles.” Sterling argues that the consequence of performing sexual reassignment surgery on intersex infants “[develops] a language that reinforces the idea that lurking inside the mixed-sex child is a real male or female body.” She claims that this is unacceptable because now that society vehemently believes that only males or females should exist, a window to a spectrum of genders closes. Even more so, those who are born intersex are forced to live unhappy lives full of surgery and scrutiny because they did not fit the standard model. In order to change the standard model, Sterling suggests that we should question, “should there be only two sexes?”\n\nIn chapter three of the book \"Sexing The Body\", titled \"Of Gender and Genitals\", Fausto-Sterling details the sexing of the human body.\nWhen an intersex child is first born, a \"medical emergency\" is called. Gender reassignment surgery is relied upon in order to \"fix the problem\" because the body must have a specific sex. Deciding whether to call a child a boy or a girl, then, employs social definitions of the essential components of gender. Fausto-Sterling describes the \"Phall-o-metrics\", the measurement technique used to determine medically acceptable penis or clitoris. Fausto-Sterling implies that the body is sexed and this sexing comes from the standards that society has placed on what a male and a female are supposed to look like and be. These definitions are primarily cultural, not biological.\n\nBooks\n\nBook Chapters\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18951655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18951655", "title": "Archaeology", "text": "Archaeology\n\nArchaeology, or archeology, is the study of human activity through the recovery and analysis of material culture. The archaeological record consists of artifacts, architecture, biofacts or ecofacts and cultural landscapes. Archaeology can be considered both a social science and a branch of the humanities. In North America archaeology is a sub-field of anthropology, while in Europe it is often viewed as either a discipline in its own right or a sub-field of other disciplines.\n\nArchaeologists study human prehistory and history, from the development of the first stone tools at Lomekwi in East Africa 3.3 million years ago up until recent decades. Archaeology is distinct from palaeontology, the study of fossil remains. It is particularly important for learning about prehistoric societies, for whom there may be no written records to study. Prehistory includes over 99% of the human past, from the Paleolithic until the advent of literacy in societies across the world. Archaeology has various goals, which range from understanding culture history to reconstructing past lifeways to documenting and explaining changes in human societies through time.\n\nThe discipline involves surveying, excavation and eventually analysis of data collected to learn more about the past. In broad scope, archaeology relies on cross-disciplinary research. It draws upon anthropology, history, art history, classics, ethnology, geography, geology, literary history, linguistics, semiology, textual criticism, physics, information sciences, chemistry, statistics, paleoecology, paleography, paleontology, paleozoology, and paleobotany.\n\nArchaeology developed out of antiquarianism in Europe during the 19th century, and has since become a discipline practiced across the world. Archaeology has been used by nation-states to create particular visions of the past. Since its early development, various specific sub-disciplines of archaeology have developed, including maritime archaeology, feminist archaeology and archaeoastronomy, and numerous different scientific techniques have been developed to aid archaeological investigation. Nonetheless, today, archaeologists face many problems, such as dealing with pseudoarchaeology, the looting of artifacts, a lack of public interest, and opposition to the excavation of human remains.\n\nThe science of archaeology (from Greek , \"archaiologia\" from , \"arkhaios\", \"ancient\" and , \"-logia\", \"-logy\") grew out of the older multi-disciplinary study known as antiquarianism. Antiquarians studied history with particular attention to ancient artifacts and manuscripts, as well as historical sites. Antiquarianism focused on the empirical evidence that existed for the understanding of the past, encapsulated in the motto of the 18th-century antiquary, Sir Richard Colt Hoare, \"We speak from facts not theory\". Tentative steps towards the systematization of archaeology as a science took place during the Enlightenment era in Europe in the 17th and 18th centuries.\n\nIn Europe, philosophical interest in the remains of Greco-Roman civilization and the rediscovery of classical culture began in the late Middle Age. Flavio Biondo, an Italian Renaissance humanist historian, created a systematic guide to the ruins and topography of ancient Rome in the early 15th century, for which he has been called an early founder of archaeology. Antiquarians of the 16th century, including John Leland and William Camden, conducted surveys of the English countryside, drawing, describing and interpreting the monuments that they encountered.\n\nOne of the first sites to undergo archaeological excavation was Stonehenge and other megalithic monuments in England. John Aubrey (1626–1697) was a pioneer archaeologist who recorded numerous megalithic and other field monuments in southern England. He was also ahead of his time in the analysis of his findings. He attempted to chart the chronological stylistic evolution of handwriting, medieval architecture, costume, and shield-shapes.\n\nExcavations were also carried out in the ancient towns of Pompeii and Herculaneum, both of which had been covered by ash during the Eruption of Mount Vesuvius in AD 79. These excavations began in 1748 in Pompeii, while in Herculaneum they began in 1738. The discovery of entire towns, complete with utensils and even human shapes, as well the unearthing of frescos, had a big impact throughout Europe.\n\nHowever, prior to the development of modern techniques, excavations tended to be haphazard; the importance of concepts such as stratification and context were overlooked.\n\nThe father of archaeological excavation was William Cunnington (1754–1810). He undertook excavations in Wiltshire from around 1798, funded by Sir Richard Colt Hoare. Cunnington made meticulous recordings of Neolithic and Bronze Age barrows, and the terms he used to categorize and describe them are still used by archaeologists today.\n\nOne of the major achievements of 19th-century archaeology was the development of stratigraphy. The idea of overlapping strata tracing back to successive periods was borrowed from the new geological and paleontological work of scholars like William Smith, James Hutton and Charles Lyell. The application of stratigraphy to archaeology first took place with the excavations of prehistorical and Bronze Age sites. In the third and fourth decades of the 19th-century, archaeologists like Jacques Boucher de Perthes and Christian Jürgensen Thomsen began to put the artifacts they had found in chronological order.\n\nA major figure in the development of archaeology into a rigorous science was the army officer and ethnologist, Augustus Pitt Rivers, who began excavations on his land in England in the 1880s. His approach was highly methodical by the standards of the time, and he is widely regarded as the first scientific archaeologist. He arranged his artifacts by type or \"typologically, and within types by date or \"chronologically\". This style of arrangement, designed to highlight the evolutionary trends in human artifacts, was of enormous significance for the accurate dating of the objects. His most important methodological innovation was his insistence that \"all\" artifacts, not just beautiful or unique ones, be collected and catalogued.\n\nWilliam Flinders Petrie is another man who may legitimately be called the Father of Archaeology. His painstaking recording and study of artifacts, both in Egypt and later in Palestine, laid down many of the ideas behind modern archaeological recording; he remarked that \"I believe the true line of research lies in the noting and comparison of the smallest details.\" Petrie developed the system of dating layers based on pottery and ceramic findings, which revolutionized the chronological basis of Egyptology. Petrie was the first to scientifically investigate the Great Pyramid in Egypt during the 1880s. He was also responsible for mentoring and training a whole generation of Egyptologists, including Howard Carter who went on to achieve fame with the discovery of the tomb of 14th-century BC pharaoh Tutankhamun.\nThe first stratigraphic excavation to reach wide popularity with public was that of Hissarlik, on the site of ancient Troy, carried out by Heinrich Schliemann, Frank Calvert and Wilhelm Dörpfeld in the 1870s. These scholars individuated nine different cities that had overlapped with one another, from prehistory to the Hellenistic period. Meanwhile, the work of Sir Arthur Evans at Knossos in Crete revealed the ancient existence of an equally advanced Minoan civilization.\n\nThe next major figure in the development of archaeology was Sir Mortimer Wheeler, whose highly disciplined approach to excavation and systematic coverage in the 1920s and 1930s brought the science on swiftly. Wheeler developed the grid system of excavation, which was further improved by his student Kathleen Kenyon.\n\nArchaeology became a professional activity in the first half of the 20th century, and it became possible to study archaeology as a subject in universities and even schools. By the end of the 20th century nearly all professional archaeologists, at least in developed countries, were graduates. Further adaptation and innovation in archaeology continued in this period, when maritime archaeology and urban archaeology became more prevalent and rescue archaeology was developed as a result of increasing commercial development.\n\nThe purpose of archaeology is to learn more about past societies and the development of the human race. Over 99% of the development of humanity has occurred within prehistoric cultures, who did not make use of writing, thereby no written records exist for study purposes. Without such written sources, the only way to understand prehistoric societies is through archaeology. Because archaeology is the study of past human activity, it stretches back to about 2.5 million years ago when we find the first stone tools – The Oldowan Industry. Many important developments in human history occurred during prehistory, such as the evolution of humanity during the Paleolithic period, when the hominins developed from the australopithecines in Africa and eventually into modern \"Homo sapiens\". Archaeology also sheds light on many of humanity's technological advances, for instance the ability to use fire, the development of stone tools, the discovery of metallurgy, the beginnings of religion and the creation of agriculture. Without archaeology, we would know little or nothing about the use of material culture by humanity that pre-dates writing.\n\nHowever, it is not only prehistoric, pre-literate cultures that can be studied using archaeology but historic, literate cultures as well, through the sub-discipline of historical archaeology. For many literate cultures, such as Ancient Greece and Mesopotamia, their surviving records are often incomplete and biased to some extent. In many societies, literacy was restricted to the elite classes, such as the clergy or the bureaucracy of court or temple. The literacy even of aristocrats has sometimes been restricted to deeds and contracts. The interests and world-view of elites are often quite different from the lives and interests of the populace. Writings that were produced by people more representative of the general population were unlikely to find their way into libraries and be preserved there for posterity. Thus, written records tend to reflect the biases, assumptions, cultural values and possibly deceptions of a limited range of individuals, usually a small fraction of the larger population. Hence, written records cannot be trusted as a sole source. The material record may be closer to a fair representation of society, though it is subject to its own biases, such as sampling bias and differential preservation.\n\nOften, archaeology provides the only means to learn of the existence and behaviors of people of the past. Across the millennia many thousands of cultures and societies and billions of people have come and gone of which there is little or no written record or existing records are misrepresentative or incomplete. Writing as it is known today did not exist in human civilization until the 4th millennium BC, in a relatively small number of technologically advanced civilizations. In contrast, \"Homo sapiens\" has existed for at least 200,000 years, and other species of \"Homo\" for millions of years (see Human evolution). These civilizations are, not coincidentally, the best-known; they are open to the inquiry of historians for centuries, while the study of pre-historic cultures has arisen only recently. Even within a literate civilization many events and important human practices are not officially recorded. Any knowledge of the early years of human civilization – the development of agriculture, cult practices of folk religion, the rise of the first cities – must come from archaeology.\n\nIn addition to their scientific importance, archaeological remains sometimes have political or cultural significance to descendants of the people who produced them, monetary value to collectors, or simply strong aesthetic appeal. Many people identify archaeology with the recovery of such aesthetic, religious, political, or economic treasures rather than with the reconstruction of past societies.\n\nThis view is often espoused in works of popular fiction, such as Raiders of the Lost Ark, The Mummy, and King Solomon's Mines. When such unrealistic subjects are treated more seriously, accusations of pseudoscience are invariably levelled at their proponents \"(see Pseudoarchaeology)\". However, these endeavours, real and fictional, are not representative of modern archaeology.\n\nThere is no one approach to archaeological theory that has been adhered to by all archaeologists. When archaeology developed in the late 19th century, the first approach to archaeological theory to be practiced was that of cultural-history archaeology, which held the goal of explaining why cultures changed and adapted rather than just highlighting the fact that they did, therefore emphasizing historical particularism. In the early 20th century, many archaeologists who studied past societies with direct continuing links to existing ones (such as those of Native Americans, Siberians, Mesoamericans etc.) followed the direct historical approach, compared the continuity between the past and contemporary ethnic and cultural groups. In the 1960s, an archaeological movement largely led by American archaeologists like Lewis Binford and Kent Flannery arose that rebelled against the established cultural-history archaeology. They proposed a \"New Archaeology\", which would be more \"scientific\" and \"anthropological\", with hypothesis testing and the scientific method very important parts of what became known as processual archaeology.\n\nIn the 1980s, a new postmodern movement arose led by the British archaeologists Michael Shanks, Christopher Tilley, Daniel Miller, and Ian Hodder, which has become known as post-processual archaeology. It questioned processualism's appeals to scientific positivism and impartiality, and emphasized the importance of a more self-critical theoretical reflexivity. However, this approach has been criticized by processualists as lacking scientific rigor, and the validity of both processualism and post-processualism is still under debate. Meanwhile, another theory, known as historical processualism has emerged seeking to incorporate a focus on process and post-processual archaeology's emphasis of reflexivity and history.\n\nArchaeological theory now borrows from a wide range of influences, including neo-evolutionary thought,[35] phenomenology, postmodernism, agency theory, cognitive science, structural functionalism, gender-based and feminist archaeology, and systems theory.\n\nAn archaeological investigation usually involves several distinct phases, each of which employs its own variety of methods. Before any practical work can begin, however, a clear objective as to what the archaeologists are looking to achieve must be agreed upon. This done, a site is surveyed to find out as much as possible about it and the surrounding area. Second, an excavation may take place to uncover any archaeological features buried under the ground. And, third, the data collected from the excavation is studied and evaluated in an attempt to achieve the original research objectives of the archaeologists. It is then considered good practice for the information to be published so that it is available to other archaeologists and historians, although this is sometimes neglected.\n\nBefore actually starting to dig in a location, remote sensing can be used to look where sites are located within a large area or provide more information about sites or regions. There are two types of remote sensing instruments—passive and active. Passive instruments detect natural energy that is reflected or emitted from the observed scene. Passive instruments sense only radiation emitted by the object being viewed or reflected by the object from a source other than the instrument. Active instruments emit energy and record what is reflected. Satellite imagery is an example of passive remote sensing. Here are two active remote sensing instruments:\n\nLidar (Light Detection and Ranging)\nA lidar uses a laser (light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation) to transmit a light pulse and a receiver with sensitive detectors to measure the backscattered or reflected light. Distance to the object is determined by recording the time between the transmitted and backscattered pulses and using the speed of light to calculate the distance travelled. Lidars can determine atmospheric profiles of aerosols, clouds, and other constituents of the atmosphere.\n\nLaser altimeter\nA laser altimeter uses a lidar (see above) to measure the height of the instrument platform above the surface. By independently knowing the height of the platform with respect to the mean Earth's surface, the topography of the underlying surface can be determined.\nThe archaeological project then continues (or alternatively, begins) with a field survey. Regional survey is the attempt to systematically locate previously unknown sites in a region. Site survey is the attempt to systematically locate features of interest, such as houses and middens, within a site. Each of these two goals may be accomplished with largely the same methods.\n\nSurvey was not widely practiced in the early days of archaeology. Cultural historians and prior researchers were usually content with discovering the locations of monumental sites from the local populace, and excavating only the plainly visible features there. Gordon Willey pioneered the technique of regional settlement pattern survey in 1949 in the Viru Valley of coastal Peru, and survey of all levels became prominent with the rise of processual archaeology some years later.\n\nSurvey work has many benefits if performed as a preliminary exercise to, or even in place of, excavation. It requires relatively little time and expense, because it does not require processing large volumes of soil to search out artifacts. (Nevertheless, surveying a large region or site can be expensive, so archaeologists often employ sampling methods.) As with other forms of non-destructive archaeology, survey avoids ethical issues (of particular concern to descendant peoples) associated with destroying a site through excavation. It is the only way to gather some forms of information, such as settlement patterns and settlement structure. Survey data are commonly assembled into maps, which may show surface features and/or artifact distribution.\n\nThe simplest survey technique is surface survey. It involves combing an area, usually on foot but sometimes with the use of mechanized transport, to search for features or artifacts visible on the surface. Surface survey cannot detect sites or features that are completely buried under earth, or overgrown with vegetation. Surface survey may also include mini-excavation techniques such as augers, corers, and shovel test pits. If no materials are found, the area surveyed is deemed sterile.\n\nAerial survey is conducted using cameras attached to airplanes, balloons, UAVs, or even Kites. A bird's-eye view is useful for quick mapping of large or complex sites. Aerial photographs are used to document the status of the archaeological dig. Aerial imaging can also detect many things not visible from the surface. Plants growing above a buried man made structure, such as a stone wall, will develop more slowly, while those above other types of features (such as middens) may develop more rapidly. Photographs of ripening grain, which changes colour rapidly at maturation, have revealed buried structures with great precision. Aerial photographs taken at different times of day will help show the outlines of structures by changes in shadows. Aerial survey also employs ultraviolet, infrared, ground-penetrating radar wavelengths, LiDAR and thermography.\n\nGeophysical survey can be the most effective way to see beneath the ground. Magnetometers detect minute deviations in the Earth's magnetic field caused by iron artifacts, kilns, some types of stone structures, and even ditches and middens. Devices that measure the electrical resistivity of the soil are also widely used. Archaeological features whose electrical resistivity contrasts with that of surrounding soils can be detected and mapped. Some archaeological features (such as those composed of stone or brick) have higher resistivity than typical soils, while others (such as organic deposits or unfired clay) tend to have lower resistivity.\n\nAlthough some archaeologists consider the use of metal detectors to be tantamount to treasure hunting, others deem them an effective tool in archaeological surveying. Examples of formal archaeological use of metal detectors include musketball distribution analysis on English Civil War battlefields, metal distribution analysis prior to excavation of a 19th-century ship wreck, and service cable location during evaluation. Metal detectorists have also contributed to archaeology where they have made detailed records of their results and refrained from raising artifacts from their archaeological context. In the UK, metal detectorists have been solicited for involvement in the Portable Antiquities Scheme.\n\nRegional survey in underwater archaeology uses geophysical or remote sensing devices such as marine magnetometer, side-scan sonar, or sub-bottom sonar.\n\nArchaeological excavation existed even when the field was still the domain of amateurs, and it remains the source of the majority of data recovered in most field projects. It can reveal several types of information usually not accessible to survey, such as stratigraphy, three-dimensional structure, and verifiably primary context.\n\nModern excavation techniques require that the precise locations of objects and features, known as their provenance or provenience, be recorded. This always involves determining their horizontal locations, and sometimes vertical position as well (also see Primary Laws of Archaeology). Likewise, their association, or relationship with nearby objects and features, needs to be recorded for later analysis. This allows the archaeologist to deduce which artifacts and features were likely used together and which may be from different phases of activity. For example, excavation of a site reveals its stratigraphy; if a site was occupied by a succession of distinct cultures, artifacts from more recent cultures will lie above those from more ancient cultures.\n\nExcavation is the most expensive phase of archaeological research, in relative terms. Also, as a destructive process, it carries ethical concerns. As a result, very few sites are excavated in their entirety. Again the percentage of a site excavated depends greatly on the country and \"method statement\" issued. Sampling is even more important in excavation than in survey.Sometimes large mechanical equipment, such as backhoes (JCBs), is used in excavation, especially to remove the topsoil (overburden), though this method is increasingly used with great caution. Following this rather dramatic step, the exposed area is usually hand-cleaned with trowels or hoes to ensure that all features are apparent.\n\nThe next task is to form a site plan and then use it to help decide the method of excavation. Features dug into the natural subsoil are normally excavated in portions to produce a visible archaeological section for recording. A feature, for example a pit or a ditch, consists of two parts: the cut and the fill. The cut describes the edge of the feature, where the feature meets the natural soil. It is the feature's boundary. The fill is what the feature is filled with, and will often appear quite distinct from the natural soil. The cut and fill are given consecutive numbers for recording purposes. Scaled plans and sections of individual features are all drawn on site, black and white and colour photographs of them are taken, and recording sheets are filled in describing the context of each. All this information serves as a permanent record of the now-destroyed archaeology and is used in describing and interpreting the site.\n\nOnce artifacts and structures have been excavated, or collected from surface surveys, it is necessary to properly study them. This process is known as post-excavation analysis, and is usually the most time-consuming part of an archaeological investigation. It is not uncommon for final excavation reports for major sites to take years to be published.\n\nAt a basic level of analysis, artifacts found are cleaned, catalogued and compared to published collections. This comparison process often involves classifying them typologically and identifying other sites with similar artifact assemblages. However, a much more comprehensive range of analytical techniques are available through archaeological science, meaning that artifacts can be dated and their compositions examined. Bones, plants, and pollen collected from a site can all be analyzed using the methods of zooarchaeology, paleoethnobotany, and palynology, while any texts can usually be deciphered.\n\nThese techniques frequently provide information that would not otherwise be known, and therefore they contribute greatly to the understanding of a site.\n\nComputer graphics are now used to build virtual 3D models of sites, such as the throne room of an Assyrian palace or ancient Rome. Photogrammetry is also used as an analytical tool, and digital topographical models have been combined with astronomical calculations to verify whether or not certain structures (such as pillars) were aligned with astronomical events such as the sun's position at a solstice. Agent-based modeling and simulation can be used to better understand past social dynamics and outcomes. Data mining can be applied to large bodies of archaeological 'grey literature'.\n\nArchaeologists around the world use drones to speed up survey work and protect sites from squatters, builders and miners. In Peru, small drones helped researchers produce three-dimensional models of Peruvian sites instead of the usual flat maps – and in days and weeks instead of months and years.\n\nDrones costing as little as £650 have proven useful. In 2013, drones have flown over at least six Peruvian archaeological sites, including the colonial Andean town Machu Llacta above sea level. The drones continue to have altitude problems in the Andes, leading to plans to make a drone blimp, employing open source software.\n\nJeffrey Quilter, an archaeologist with Harvard University said, \"You can go up three metres and photograph a room, 300 metres and photograph a site, or you can go up 3,000 metres and photograph the entire valley.\"\n\nIn September 2014 drones weighing about were used for 3D mapping of the above-ground ruins of the Greek city of Aphrodisias. The data is being analysed by the Austrian Archaeological Institute in Vienna.\n\nAs with most academic disciplines, there are a very large number of archaeological sub-disciplines characterized by a specific method or type of material (e.g., lithic analysis, music, archaeobotany), geographical or chronological focus (e.g. Near Eastern archaeology, Islamic archaeology, Medieval archaeology), other thematic concern (e.g. maritime archaeology, landscape archaeology, battlefield archaeology), or a specific archaeological culture or civilization (e.g. Egyptology, Indology, Sinology).\n\nHistorical archaeology is the study of cultures with some form of writing.\n\nIn England, archaeologists have uncovered layouts of 14th century medieval villages, abandoned after crises such as the Black Death. In downtown New York City, archaeologists have exhumed the 18th century remains of the African Burial Ground.\n\nEthnoarchaeology is the ethnographic study of living people, designed to aid in our interpretation of the archaeological record. The approach first gained prominence during the processual movement of the 1960s, and continues to be a vibrant component of post-processual and other current archaeological approaches. Early ethnoarchaeological research focused on hunter-gatherer or foraging societies; today ethnoarchaeological research encompasses a much wider range of human behaviour.\n\nExperimental archaeology represents the application of the experimental method to develop more highly controlled observations of processes that create and impact the archaeological record. In the context of the logical positivism of processualism with its goals of improving the scientific rigor of archaeological epistemologies the experimental method gained importance. Experimental techniques remain a crucial component to improving the inferential frameworks for interpreting the archaeological record.\n\nArchaeometry aims to systematize archaeological measurement. It emphasizes the application of analytical techniques from physics, chemistry, and engineering. It is a field of research that frequently focuses on the definition of the chemical composition of archaeological remains for source analysis. Archaeometry also investigates different spatial characteristics of features, employing methods such as space syntax techniques and geodesy as well as computer-based tools such as geographic information system technology. Rare earth elements patterns may also be used. A relatively nascent subfield is that of archaeological materials, designed to enhance understanding of prehistoric and non-industrial culture through scientific analysis of the structure and properties of materials associated with human activity.\n\nArchaeology can be a subsidiary activity within Cultural resources management (CRM), also called heritage management in the United Kingdom. CRM archaeologists frequently examine archaeological sites that are threatened by development. Today, CRM accounts for most of the archaeological research done in the United States and much of that in western Europe as well. In the US, CRM archaeology has been a growing concern since the passage of the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) of 1966, and most taxpayers, scholars, and politicians believe that CRM has helped preserve much of that nation's history and prehistory that would have otherwise been lost in the expansion of cities, dams, and highways. Along with other statutes, the NHPA mandates that projects on federal land or involving federal funds or permits consider the effects of the project on each archaeological site.\n\nThe application of CRM in the United Kingdom is not limited to government-funded projects. Since 1990, PPG 16 has required planners to consider archaeology as a material consideration in determining applications for new development. As a result, numerous archaeological organizations undertake mitigation work in advance of (or during) construction work in archaeologically sensitive areas, at the developer's expense.\n\nIn England, ultimate responsibility of care for the historic environment rests with the Department for Culture, Media and Sport in association with English Heritage. In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, the same responsibilities lie with Historic Scotland, Cadw and the Northern Ireland Environment Agency respectively.\n\nIn France, the Institut national du patrimoine (The National Institute of Cultural Heritage) trains curators specialized in archaeology. Their mission is to enhance the objects discovered. The curator is the link between scientific knowledge, administrative regulations, heritage objects and the public.\n\nAmong the goals of CRM are the identification, preservation, and maintenance of cultural sites on public and private lands, and the removal of culturally valuable materials from areas where they would otherwise be destroyed by human activity, such as proposed construction. This study involves at least a cursory examination to determine whether or not any significant archaeological sites are present in the area affected by the proposed construction. If these do exist, time and money must be allotted for their excavation. If initial survey and/or test excavations indicate the presence of an extraordinarily valuable site, the construction may be prohibited entirely.\n\nCultural resources management has, however, been criticized. CRM is conducted by private companies that bid for projects by submitting proposals outlining the work to be done and an expected budget. It is not unheard-of for the agency responsible for the construction to simply choose the proposal that asks for the least funding. CRM archaeologists face considerable time pressure, often being forced to complete their work in a fraction of the time that might be allotted for a purely scholarly endeavour. Compounding the time pressure is the vetting process of site reports that are required (in the US) to be submitted by CRM firms to the appropriate State Historic Preservation Office (SHPO). From the SHPO's perspective there is to be no difference between a report submitted by a CRM firm operating under a deadline, and a multi-year academic project. The end result is that for a Cultural Resource Management archaeologist to be successful, they must be able to produce academic quality documents at a corporate world pace.\n\nThe annual ratio of open academic archaeology positions (inclusive of post-doc, temporary, and non- tenure track appointments) to the annual number of archaeology MA/MSc and PhD students is disproportionate. Cultural Resource Management, once considered an intellectual backwater for individuals with \"strong backs and weak minds,\" has attracted these graduates, and CRM offices are thus increasingly staffed by advance degreed individuals with a track record of producing scholarly articles but who also have extensive CRM field experience.\n\nEarly archaeology was largely an attempt to uncover spectacular artifacts and features, or to explore vast and mysterious abandoned cities. Early archaeology was mostly done by upper class, scholarly men. This generalization laid the foundation for the modern popular view of archaeology and archaeologists. This generalization has been with western culture for a long time. Another popular thought that dates back to this era is that archaeology is monetarily lucrative. A large majority of the general public is under the impression that excavations are undertaken for money and not historical data. It is easy for the general public to hold this notion for that is what is presented to them through general media, and has been for many decades.\n\nThe majority of the public view archaeology as being something only available to a narrow demographic. The job of archaeologist is depicted as a \"romantic adventurist occupation\". To generalize, the public views archaeology as a fantasized hobby more than a job in the scientific community. The audience may not take away scientific methods from popular cinema but they do form a notion of \"who archaeologists are, why they do what they do, and how relationships to the past are constituted\". The modern depiction of archaeology is sensationalized so much that it has incorrectly formed the public's perception of what archaeology is. The public is often under the impression that all archaeology takes place in a distant and foreign land, only to collect monetarily or spiritually priceless artifacts.\n\nMuch thorough and productive research has indeed been conducted in dramatic locales such as Copán and the Valley of the Kings, but the bulk of activities and finds of modern archaeology are not so sensational. Archaeological adventure stories tend to ignore the painstaking work involved in carrying out modern surveys, excavations, and data processing. Some archaeologists refer to such off-the-mark portrayals as \"pseudoarchaeology\".\nArchaeologists are also very much reliant on public support; the question of exactly who they are doing their work for is often discussed.\n\nMotivated by a desire to halt looting, curb pseudoarchaeology, and to help preserve archaeological sites through education and fostering public appreciation for the importance of archaeological heritage, archaeologists are mounting public-outreach campaigns. They seek to stop looting by combatting people who illegally take artifacts from protected sites, and by alerting people who live near archaeological sites of the threat of looting. Common methods of public outreach include press releases, and the encouragement of school field trips to sites under excavation by professional archaeologists. Public appreciation of the significance of archaeology and archaeological sites often leads to improved protection from encroaching development or other threats.\n\nOne audience for archaeologists' work is the public. They increasingly realize that their work can benefit non-academic and non-archaeological audiences, and that they have a responsibility to educate and inform the public about archaeology. Local heritage awareness is aimed at increasing civic and individual pride through projects such as community excavation projects, and better public presentations of archaeological sites and knowledge. The U.S.Dept. of Agriculture, Forest Service (USFS) operates a volunteer archaeology and historic preservation program called the Passport in Time (PIT). Volunteers work with professional USFS archaeologists and historians on national forests throughout the U.S. Volunteers are involved in all aspects of professional archaeology under expert supervision.\n\nTelevision programs, web videos and social media can also bring an understanding of underwater archaeology to a broad audience. The \"Mardi Gras\" Shipwreck Project integrated a one-hour HD documentary, short videos for public viewing and video updates during the expedition as part of the educational outreach. Webcasting is also another tool for educational outreach. For one week in 2000 and 2001, live underwater video of the \"Queen Anne's Revenge\" Shipwreck Project was webcast to the Internet as a part of the \"QAR DiveLive\" educational program that reached thousands of children around the world. Created and co-produced by Nautilus Productions and Marine Grafics, this project enabled students to talk to scientists and learn about methods and technologies utilized by the underwater archaeology team.\n\nIn the UK, popular archaeology programs such as \"Time Team\" and \"Meet the Ancestors\" have resulted in a huge upsurge in public interest. Where possible, archaeologists now make more provisions for public involvement and outreach in larger projects than they once did, and many local archaeological organizations operate within the Community archaeology framework to expand public involvement in smaller-scale, more local projects. Archaeological excavation, however, is best undertaken by well-trained staff that can work quickly and accurately. Often this requires observing the necessary health and safety and indemnity insurance issues involved in working on a modern building site with tight deadlines. Certain charities and local government bodies sometimes offer places on research projects either as part of academic work or as a defined community project. There is also a flourishing industry selling places on commercial training excavations and archaeological holiday tours.\n\nArchaeologists prize local knowledge and often liaise with local historical and archaeological societies, which is one reason why Community archaeology projects are starting to become more common. Often archaeologists are assisted by the public in the locating of archaeological sites, which professional archaeologists have neither the funding, nor the time to do.\n\nArchaeological Legacy Institute (ALI), is a registered 501[c] [3] non-profit, media and education corporation registered in Oregon in 1999. ALI founded a website, The Archaeology Channel to support the organization's mission \"to nurturing and bringing attention to the human cultural heritage, by using media in the most efficient and effective ways possible.\"\n\nPseudoarchaeology is an umbrella term for all activities that falsely claim to be archaeological but in fact violate commonly accepted and scientific archaeological practices. It includes much fictional archaeological work (discussed above), as well as some actual activity. Many non-fiction authors have ignored the scientific methods of processual archaeology, or the specific critiques of it contained in post-processualism.\n\nAn example of this type is the writing of Erich von Däniken. His 1968 book, \"Chariots of the Gods?\", together with many subsequent lesser-known works, expounds a theory of ancient contacts between human civilization on Earth and more technologically advanced extraterrestrial civilizations. This theory, known as palaeocontact theory, or Ancient astronaut theory, is not exclusively Däniken's, nor did the idea originate with him. Works of this nature are usually marked by the renunciation of well-established theories on the basis of limited evidence, and the interpretation of evidence with a preconceived theory in mind.\n\nLooting of archaeological sites is an ancient problem. For instance, many of the tombs of the Egyptian pharaohs were looted during antiquity. Archaeology stimulates interest in ancient objects, and people in search of artifacts or treasure cause damage to archaeological sites. The commercial and academic demand for artifacts unfortunately contributes directly to the illicit antiquities trade. Smuggling of antiquities abroad to private collectors has caused great cultural and economic damage in many countries whose governments lack the resources and or the will to deter it. Looters damage and destroy archaeological sites, denying future generations information about their ethnic and cultural heritage. Indigenous peoples especially lose access to and control over their 'cultural resources', ultimately denying them the opportunity to know their past.\n\nIn 1937, W. F. Hodge the Director of the Southwest Museum released a statement that the museum would no longer purchase or accept collections from looted contexts. The first conviction of the transport of artifacts illegally removed from private property under the Archaeological Resources Protection Act (ARPA; Public Law 96-95; 93 Statute 721; ) was in 1992 in the State of Indiana.\n\nArchaeologists trying to protect artifacts may be placed in danger by looters or locals trying to protect the artifacts from archaeologists who are viewed as looters by the locals.\n\nIn the United States, examples such as the case of Kennewick Man have illustrated the tensions between Native Americans and archaeologists, which can be summarized as a conflict between a need to remain respectful toward sacred burial sites and the academic benefit from studying them. For years, American archaeologists dug on Indian burial grounds and other places considered sacred, removing artifacts and human remains to storage facilities for further study. In some cases human remains were not even thoroughly studied but instead archived rather than reburied. Furthermore, Western archaeologists' views of the past often differ from those of tribal peoples. The West views time as linear; for many natives, it is cyclic. From a Western perspective, the past is long-gone; from a native perspective, disturbing the past can have dire consequences in the present.\n\nAs a consequence of this, American Indians attempted to prevent archaeological excavation of sites inhabited by their ancestors, while American archaeologists believed that the advancement of scientific knowledge was a valid reason to continue their studies. This contradictory situation was addressed by the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (NAGPRA, 1990), which sought to reach a compromise by limiting the right of research institutions to possess human remains. Due in part to the spirit of postprocessualism, some archaeologists have begun to actively enlist the assistance of indigenous peoples likely to be descended from those under study.\n\nArchaeologists have also been obliged to re-examine what constitutes an archaeological site in view of what native peoples believe to constitute sacred space. To many native peoples, natural features such as lakes, mountains or even individual trees have cultural significance. Australian archaeologists especially have explored this issue and attempted to survey these sites to give them some protection from being developed. Such work requires close links and trust between archaeologists and the people they are trying to help and at the same time study.\n\nWhile this cooperation presents a new set of challenges and hurdles to fieldwork, it has benefits for all parties involved. Tribal elders cooperating with archaeologists can prevent the excavation of areas of sites that they consider sacred, while the archaeologists gain the elders' aid in interpreting their finds. There have also been active efforts to recruit aboriginal peoples directly into the archaeological profession.\n\nA new trend in the heated controversy between First Nations groups and scientists is the repatriation of native artifacts to the original descendants. An example of this occurred on 21 June 2005, when community members and elders from a number of the 10 Algonquian nations in the Ottawa area convened on the Kitigan Zibi reservation near Maniwaki, Quebec, to inter ancestral human remains and burial goods—some dating back 6,000 years. It was not determined, however, if the remains were directly related to the Algonquin people who now inhabit the region. The remains may be of Iroquoian ancestry, since Iroquoian people inhabited the area before the Algonquin. Moreover, the oldest of these remains might have no relation at all to the Algonquin or Iroquois, and belong to an earlier culture who previously inhabited the area.\n\nThe remains and artifacts, including jewelry, tools and weapons, were originally excavated from various sites in the Ottawa Valley, including Morrison and the Allumette Islands. They had been part of the Canadian Museum of Civilization's research collection for decades, some since the late 19th century. Elders from various Algonquin communities conferred on an appropriate reburial, eventually deciding on traditional redcedar and birchbark boxes lined with redcedar chips, muskrat and beaver pelts.\n\nAn inconspicuous rock mound marks the reburial site where close to 80 boxes of various sizes are buried. Because of this reburial, no further scientific study is possible. Although negotiations were at times tense between the Kitigan Zibi community and museum, they were able to reach agreement.\n\nKennewick Man is another repatriation candidate that has been the source of heated debate.\n\n\nLists\n\n"}
{"id": "1254607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1254607", "title": "Awareness ribbon", "text": "Awareness ribbon\n\nAwareness ribbons are symbols meant to show support or raise consciousness for a cause. Different colours and patterns are associated with different issues.\n\nYellow ribbons, in the United States, are used to show that a close family member is abroad in military service. In Russia, Belarus and other countries of the former Soviet Union, gold and black striped ribbons are used to celebrate the Allies' victory in World War II (9 May).\n\nOf the uses of ribbons to draw awareness to health issues, perhaps the best-known is the pink ribbon for support of those with breast cancer. Other health and social concerns which have adopted coloured ribbons include Alzheimer's disease, pancreatic cancer (purple), HIV/AIDS (red), bipolar disorder (green), and brain disorder or disability (silver).\n\nPolitical use of ribbons include red ribbons worn to commemorate the October Revolution (7 November) in the former Soviet Union, and orange ribbons in the Orange Revolution in Ukraine.\n\nOther ornaments, including flowers (of specific kinds), bracelets and badges may serve essentially the same purpose of drawing attention to a cause. These include poppies, rosettes and wristbands.\n\nThe first ribbons that were represented as meaningful objects in history were the tokens given to knights during the Middle Ages in Europe. The yellow ribbon came from the Puritan Army during the English Civil War. From there, it spread to the Americas, where the Army of the United States became associated with it. A yellow ribbon was mentioned in a marching song, sung by the military in the United States. In the year 1917 George A. Norton copyrighted the song for the first time. The title of the song was \"Round Her Neck She Wears a Yeller Ribbon\". In the 1940s the song was rewritten by several musicians.\n\nIn the early 1970s, the song \"Tie a Yellow Ribbon Round the Ole Oak Tree\" was released, and based on this song, a wife of a hostage in Iran, Penney Laingen, was the first who used the ribbon as an awareness symbol. She tied yellow ribbons around trees, to illustrate desire for her husband coming home. Her friends and family members followed the trend. As many individuals were able to see this message, the \"ribbon became a medium\".\n\nIn May 1986, the AIDS Faith Alliance, later to be known as Christian Action on AIDS, held an open conference on AIDS at Notting Hill Gate in London, supported by the Archbishop of Canterbury and other United Kingdom Christian church leaders. Rainbow Ribbons were given to everybody attending. The purpose of Christian Action on AIDS, an official Church of England charity whose founder/chairman was Barnaby Miln, was to get the worldwide Christian churches involved in the crisis that was AIDS. The Christian Action on AIDS to fold in 1991.\n\nIn 1991, the red ribbon was created by the Visual AIDS Artists Caucus, a New York-based group of artists and AIDS activist. They wished to create a visual symbol to demonstrate compassion for people living with AIDS and their caregivers. The color red was chosen for its \"connection to blood and the idea of passion\"—both anger and love. During the 1991 Tony Awards, actor Jeremy Irons wore the bright red ribbon pinned on his chest. Though the symbolism of the ribbon was not allowed to be discussed on air, the media and public noticed the eye catching ribbon, and its popularity grew overnight. The red ribbon was purposefully not copyrighted in the United States, to allow it to be worn and used widely as a symbol in the fight against AIDS. The year 1992 was declared by \"The New York Times\" as \"The year of the Ribbon\".\n\nToday the red ribbon is an internationally recognized symbol of AIDS awareness and a design icon. It has led the way for many other color ribbons and awareness projects.\n\nThe Unicode character standard has a \"reminder ribbon\" character (🎗️) at code point U+1F397. No color is specified for it, and platforms vary in its presentation; it can appear yellow, blue, or red depending on the device or software in which it is viewed.\n\nRibbons can be used simply to raise awareness of a disease or signify that an individual has been personally affected by that disease or condition. People often place ribbons around college campuses, throughout neighborhoods, and in public business places so that others can see them and realize they are not alone in their battle. Ribbon colors are often associated with one or more conditions but there are several sources that define what color relates to which condition. They also provide an outline of the dates in which that ribbon is significant. Ribbons are often promoted to signify the prevalence of a specific disease or condition.\n\nThere are ribbon colors that also associate with animals and organization that work with animals. The Animal Legal Defense Fund fights for the rights of all animals alike while displaying and orange ribbon. Animal abuse awareness is also well known for its use of the purple ribbon.\n\nAwareness ribbons have the potential to bring a community of people together. October is breast cancer awareness month and is symbolized by the pink ribbon. Sports teams, business places, and even schools take advantage of the well known pink ribbon and use this month as a time for raising funds to go towards research in the area of the disease. This is also common for AIDS awareness, symbolized by a red ribbon. Apple produced an iPhone in March 2017 that was red to promote awareness for AIDS. Portions of the proceeds from this iPhone went towards research for AIDS.\n\nAlthough a minuscule gesture, ribbons are small and can be placed in common locations that are heavily traveled. Individuals who see these ribbons may begin to conduct their own research to decipher the meaning behind the ribbon and why it was placed so strategically. Ribbons can be made from any and all material, making them readily available to all populations. People can purchase car magnets in the shape of a ribbon to place on the back of their vehicle and raise awareness just by driving down the street.\n\nRibbons can promote knowledge of different diseases, interest in a lesser known subject area, and may evoke feelings of empathy when displayed in memory of a loved one. Although awareness ribbons may be most commonly used in a time of crisis after a family member or pet is lost, the ribbon sparks interest in a multitude of chronic conditions. As the ribbons are spread, more people will learn about the condition and be able to support or even fund the research behind it.\n\n"}
{"id": "1416110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1416110", "title": "Bachelor of Religious Education", "text": "Bachelor of Religious Education\n\nThe Bachelor of Religious Education, or BRE, or B.R.E. is an undergraduate degree. It offers a broad education in the areas of scripture and theology. It differs from a BA degree in that approximately three-quarters of the program is invested in studies outside of the liberal arts. This degree is primarily offered by institutions of a Christian worldview, though not exclusively so.\n\nTypically, a BRE degree will be sought by those individuals who are interested in serving as pastors, missionaries, evangelists, youth leaders, worship coordinators, or in other forms of local church ministry. Alternatively, some BRE graduates go on to careers in the fields of business, counseling, education, law, media, and writing.\n"}
{"id": "898981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898981", "title": "Bench language", "text": "Bench language\n\nBench (\"Bencnon\", Shenon or Mernon, formerly called Gimira ) is a Northern Omotic language of the \"Gimojan\" subgroup, spoken by about 174,000 people (in 1998) in the Bench Maji Zone of the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples Region, in southern Ethiopia, around the towns of Mizan Teferi and Shewa Gimira. It has three varieties: Benchnon, Shenon, and Mernon, which Blench (2006) considers to be distinct languages but which Rapold (2006) states are \"...mutually intelligible...varieties of one and the same language\".\n\nIn unusual variance from most of the other languages in Africa, Bench has retroflex consonant phonemes. The language is also noteworthy in that it has six phonemic tones, one of only a handful of languages in the world that have this many. Bench has a whistled form used primarily by male speakers, which permits communication over greater distances than spoken Bench. The whistle can be created using the lips or made from a hollow created with both hands. Additionally, this form of the language may be communicated via the 5-stringed krar.\n\nThe phonemic vowels of Bench are .\n\nThere are six phonemic tones: five level tones (numbered 1 to 5 in the literature, with 1 being the lowest) and one rising tone 23 . The top tone is sometimes realized as a high rising 45 . On the vowel \"o,\" they are \n\nThe consonants are:\nAll of these can occur palatalized, but only before , suggesting an alternate analysis of a sixth phonemic vowel . Labialized consonants are reported for and , but their phonemic status is unclear; they only occur after .\n\nFor the phoneme the realizations of and [f] are in free variation; has the allophone before back vowels.\n\nThe syllable structure is (C)V(C)(C)(C) + tone or (C) N (C), where C represents any consonant, V any vowel, N any nasal, and brackets an optional element. CC clusters consist of a continuant followed by a plosive, fricative, or affricate; in CCC clusters, the first consonant must be one of or , the second either or a voiceless fricative, and the third or .\n\nPlurals may optionally be formed by adding the suffix ; however, these are rarely used except with definite nouns. E.g.: \"her relatives\"; \"all the people\".\n\nThe word goes slightly beyond being a reflexive pronoun; it can mark any third person that refers to the subject of the sentence, e.g.:\n\nThe oblique form is basic, and serves as object, possessive, and adverbial. The subject form has three variants: normal (given above), emphatic - used when the subject is particularly prominent in the sentence, especially sentence-initially - and reduced, used as part of a verb phrase. The \"locative\" term means \"to, at, or for one's own place or house\", e.g.:\n\nThe main determiners are \"that, the\" (masc. , fem. , pl. ) and \"this\" (masc. , fem. , pl. ). As suffixes on a verb or an ablative or locative phrase, they indicate a relative clause. E.g.:\n\"the woman who is in the house\"\n\nThe demonstratives include \"here\", \"there (nearby)\", \"there (far away)\", \"down there\", \"up there\". Alone, or with the determiner suffixes or added, these function as demonstrative pronouns \"this person\", \"that person\", etc. With the noun phrase marker , they become demonstrative adjectives. E.g.:\n\nThe numbers are:\n20, 30, etc. are formed by adding \"ten\" (with tone change) to the unit. In compound numbers, is added to each 'figure, thus:\n\nWhen a cardinal number functions as an adjective, the suffix can be added \"(e.g.\" \"three children\"). Ordinal numbers are formed by suffixing to the cardinal, e.g.: \"fourth\".\n\nAdjectives are sometimes intensified by changing the tone to top; e.g. \"big\" → \"very big\".\n\nVerbs with monosyllabic roots can have three different forms of their active stems: the singular imperative, which is just the root; the past stem, usually identical to the root but sometimes formed by adding \"-k\" (with changes to the preceding consonant); and the future stem, usually identical to the root but sometimes formed by changing the tone from mid 3 to high 4 or from bottom 1 to top 5. Some have causative (formed by adding or , and changing mid tone to high) and passive (formed by adding , , or to the causative) forms. Verbal nouns are formed from the stem, sometimes with tone change or addition or .\n\nVerbs with polysyllabic roots have at least two forms, one with an intransitive or passive meaning and one with a transitive or causative meaning; the former ends in , the latter in . A passive may be formed by ending in . Verbal nouns are formed by taking the bare stem without or .\n\nCompound verbs are formed with \"say\" or \"cause to say\", a formation common among Ethiopian languages.\n\nThe primary tenses are simple past (formed from the past stem), future (future stem plus ), present perfect (from present participle stem); negative (future stem plus .) E.g.: → \"he went\"; \"he will go\"; \"he has gone\".\n\nThere are four corresponding participles: past (formed from the past stem), present perfect (formed from the past stem with the suffix , , or ), imperfect (formed from the future stem with the stative suffix ), and negative (formed from the future stem with the negative suffix or or a person/number marker.)\nThe order of affixes is: root-(tense)-(negative)-(foc. pn.)-person/number-marker.\n\nA Latin-based orthography was adopted in 2008. Previously, the New Testament had been published in the Bench language using an orthography based on the Ethiopian syllabary. Tones were not indicated. Retroflex consonants were indicated by such techniques as using extra symbols from the syllabary (the \"\"nigus\" s\") and forming new symbols (the addition of an extra arm on the left side for \"t\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42554741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42554741", "title": "Bouquet with Flying Lovers", "text": "Bouquet with Flying Lovers\n\nBouquet with Flying Lovers is a painting by Marc Chagall. The work is oil on canvas.\n\nAccording to Chagall himself, he started working on the painting in the 1930s when he lived in Paris, and he finished the work when he was mourning the death of his wife Bella. The image is predominantly blue and shows a bouquet of flowers in the center. Above the flowers, two lovers float in the air. An angel enters through the window. The buildings on the right side depict Vitebsk, Chagall's birth village.\n"}
{"id": "36981122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36981122", "title": "British Paraorchestra", "text": "British Paraorchestra\n\nThe British Paraorchestra, based in Bristol, is an orchestra consisting entirely of musicians with disabilitiesthe first ever orchestra of its kind in the United Kingdom. The Paraorchestra was formed by conductor Charles Hazlewood in 2011 as a project to create a platform for the top disabled musicians, with the hope that its success would lead to better integration of the disabled into music and performing arts. The orchestra performed its first live show at Glastonbury Abbey in July 2012 (which was also the subject of a Channel 4 documentary), and received international attention when it played alongside Coldplay during the closing ceremony of the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London in September 2012.\n\nCharles Hazlewood was inspired by his youngest daughter Eliza to form the Paraorchestra; Eliza has cerebral palsy, but Hazlewood believed that she was still an \"outstanding\" singer. Being the father of a child with a disability, he realized that throughout his career as an orchestral conductor, he had seen few disabled performers as members of orchestras. Hazlewood felt that since music is \"universal\", an orchestra should represent all members of a communitycomparing this ordeal to the time when only men performed in orchestras. He felt that an orchestra consisting only of disabled performers could spread awareness of this issue and help achieve greater integration for the disabled in music and the performing arts.\n\nHazlewood officially announced the formation of the British Paraorchestra in July 2011 at a TED conference in Edinburgh. He did not intend the Paraorchestra to be a therapeutic or \"warm and fuzzy\" project, but rather a platform to showcase disabled musicians with virtuosic qualities. When holding auditions, he aimed to find musicians who were \"at the top of their game, technically, and with a spirit behind the virtuosity.\" The orchestra's first 17 members come from a variety of backgrounds and use a variety of instruments, including conventional instruments and electronic devices such as tablet computers and other assistive technology developed by Rolf Gehlhaar, Professor in Experimental Music at Coventry University and the technical director of the orchestra. After failing to partner with the BBC, Hazlewood successfully commissioned British broadcaster Channel 4 to produce a documentary following the formation of the Paraorchestra and its first performance, which aired on 9 September 2012. He felt airing its documentary on Channel 4 was a \"no-brainer\", as it was also the official broadcaster of the 2012 Summer Paralympics. \n\nThe Paraorchestra made its first public appearance on 1 July 2012 during Hazlewood's music festival \"Orchestra in a Field\" at Glastonbury Abbey; the performance included its versions of \"Greensleeves\" and Maurice Ravel's \"Boléro\". The orchestra's style incorporates a large amount of improvisation, intended to allow the orchestra to feel a sense of \"collective ownership\" of their performances.\n\nIn 2012, Hazlewood campaigned for the Paraorchestra to be included in the ceremonies of the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London. He felt that their inclusion in this international event would be a unique opportunity for the Paraorchestra and that it could also raise awareness of his cause. The Paraorchestra were ultimately incorporated into the closing ceremony of the Games, where it performed alongside British rock band Coldplay (accompanying them in a performance of \"Strawberry Swing\"), and played the Paralympic anthem. The Paraorchestra planned to use the exposure it gained through its role at the Paralympics to add more performers, make studio recordings, and tour across Europe.\n\nOn 3 December 2012, coinciding with the United Nations' International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the British Paraorchestra released a cover of \"True Colors\" as a charity single, in a campaign to be Christmas number one. Accompanied by the Kaos Signing Choir for Deaf and Hearing Children and notable Britiah paralympians, the single was released to support the British Paralympic Association in preparation for the 2014 Winter Paralympics, along with the Paraorchestra and Kaos Signing Choir themselves. The Paraorchestra was awarded a Big Society Award in September 2013.\n\nThe Paraorchestra began with 17 members, but plans to add more in the near future. Its members currently include Nicholas McCarthy, a one-handed pianist who graduated from the Royal College of Music in 2012, Clarence Adoo, a former jazz trumpet player who was paralysed below the shoulders after a car accident (and now plays an instrument known as \"Headspace\", which is controlled by breath and head motions, developed for him by Rolf Gehlhaar), Gemma Lunt, a viola player who uses a wheelchair and Lyn Levett, who uses a Macintosh to play what Hazlewood feels is \"dizzyingly creative\" electronic music. Blind members of the Paraorchestra include Pianist and violinist Abi Baker, James Risdon on recorder, Matthew Wadsworth on the lute, violist Takashi Kikuchi, and multi-instrumentalists Baluji Shrivastav and Ziad Sinno. The Paraorchestra also recently added 15-year-old deaf viola player Tilly Chester to its lineup. Hazlewood had encountered her playing with the National Youth Orchestraof which she is also a member.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5184800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5184800", "title": "Carnography", "text": "Carnography\n\nCarnography (also carno) refers to excessive or extended scenes of carnage, violence, and gore in media such as film, literature, and images. \nThe term \"carnography\"—a portmanteau of the words \"carnage\" and \"pornography\"—was used as early as 1972 in \"Time\" magazine's review of David Morrell's book \"First Blood\", upon which the Rambo film series is based. \n\"Rambo\" was later called \"carnography\" as well.\n\nThe term refers to an obsession with the human body that \"suggests a connection between horror and pornography\", often relating to hardcore horror films. Carnography is considered taboo and a disreputable genre.\nIt has been described as \"nastily impure work\",\n\"splatter-obsessed hard core horror\",\nand \"watching flesh fly\".\nCarnographic horror films have a \"superfluous plot\" in which characters are \"initiated, only to be discarded\", and the gore seems to be the only reason the film exists.\nPornography and carnography share the feature of close, intimate physical contact, whether it be to caress or to attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "34616267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34616267", "title": "Catherine Fulton", "text": "Catherine Fulton\n\nCatherine Henrietta Elliot Fulton (née Valpy, 19 December 1829 – 6 May 1919) was a New Zealand diarist, community leader, philanthropist, social reformer and suffragette.\n\nFulton was one of six children born to William Henry Valpy and Caroline Valpy (née Jeffreys). She was born in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire or in Reading, Berkshire, England on 19 December 1829. She was educated in England and arrived in New Zealand on the \"Ajax\" in January 1849.\n\nFulton married James Fulton in 1852 and moved to his farm \"Ravenscliffe\" on the Taieri Plains, Otago. Together they had eight children, several of whom became notable in their own right (most famously the engineer James Edward Fulton).\n\nFulton was the Dominion President of the Women's Christian Temperance Union from 1889 to 1892. She helped found the Dunedin branch in May 1885 and was its first President. Along with her sisters Ellen and Arabella, she established the Band of Hope Coffee Rooms. She was a strong advocate for women's suffrage and included in her diaries her frustration with politicians who opposed it.\n\nIn 1879, James Fulton was elected to the House of Representatives, and in 1889 was appointed to the Legislative Council. Fulton later attended the council sessions daily, along with the wives of other parliamentarians, to follow the passage of the Women's Suffrage bill through the House. When the Bill was passed in 1893, she drove her women neighbours to the polling booths so they could vote.\n\nAfter her husband died in 1891, she continued to run the farm alone. Aged 90, she died on 6 May 1919 and was survived by three sons and three daughters.\n"}
{"id": "22101040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22101040", "title": "Caucasology", "text": "Caucasology\n\nCaucasology, or Caucasiology refers to the historical and geopolitical studies of Caucasus region. The branch has more than 150 years history. In 1972, the Caucasiological Center (renamed to International Caucasiological Center in 2000) was founded under the auspices of the Israel President Zalman Shazar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29418774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29418774", "title": "Cealia Pompeius Pulchellus", "text": "Cealia Pompeius Pulchellus\n\nCealia Pompeius Pulchellus was, according to the notoriously unreliable \"Historia Augusta\", a clergy member in the Temple of Venus from 185-88. It was noted that Cealia was thought to be blessed by Cupid based on his very feminine appearance and body. At the age of 18, Cealia was supposedly summoned by Emperor Commodus to his bedchamber after the latter heard word of Cealia's rumored connection with the god of affection Cupid, only to be raped and murdered by the emperor the same night.\n"}
{"id": "1981608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1981608", "title": "Colcannon", "text": "Colcannon\n\nColcannon () is a traditional Irish dish of mashed potatoes with kale or cabbage.\n\nColcannon is traditionally made from mashed potatoes and kale (or cabbage), with milk (or cream), butter (or vegetable oil), salt and pepper added. It can contain other ingredients such as scallions (spring onions), leeks, laver, onions and chives. There are many regional variations of this dish. It is often eaten with boiled ham or Irish bacon. At one time it was a cheap, year-round staple food, though nowadays it is usually eaten in autumn/winter, when kale comes into season.\n\nAn Irish Halloween tradition is to serve colcannon with a ring and a thimble hidden in the dish. Prizes of small coins such as threepenny or sixpenny bits were also concealed inside the dish.\n\nThe origin of the word is unclear. The first syllable 'col' is likely derived from the Irish 'cál' meaning cabbage. The second syllable may derive from 'ceann-fhionn' meaning a white head (i.e. 'a white head of cabbage') - this use is also found in the Irish name for a coot, a white headed bird known as 'cearc cheannan', or 'white-head hen'. The phrase may also be borrowed from the Welsh name for a leek soup known as cawl cennin, literally \"broth (of) leeks.\"\n\nThe song \"Colcannon\", also called \"The Skillet Pot\", is a traditional Irish song that has been recorded by numerous artists, including Mary Black. It begins:\n<poem>Did you ever eat Colcannon, made from lovely pickled cream?\nWith the greens and scallions mingled like a picture in a dream.\nDid you ever make a hole on top to hold the melting flake\nOf the creamy, flavoured butter that your mother used to make?</poem>\n\nThe chorus:\n<poem>Yes you did, so you did, so did he and so did I.\nAnd the more I think about it sure the nearer I'm to cry.\nOh, wasn't it the happy days when troubles we had not,\nAnd our mothers made Colcannon in the little skillet pot.</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "33598644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33598644", "title": "Cultural communication", "text": "Cultural communication\n\nCultural relativism is the view that cultures are merely different, not deficient, and each culture’s norms and practices should be assessed only from the perspective of the culture itself, not by standards embraced by another culture. It is the idea that one cannot make judgments about a culture just because they are not a part of one's own. Outsiders should be able to see the cultural from a neutral perspective and not judge the culture before understanding it. Each culture should be viewed with respect and as an equal because no one culture is better than any other. They should be allowed to practice their own beliefs, what a cultures believes to be true, and values, a shared view about what is right. Cultural relativism emphasizes that ethnocentrism, which is the belief that one’s culture is superior to everyone else’s, should not be forced upon cultures, and cultures should remain unprejudiced toward each other. Cultural relativism is the moral and ethical way to look at different cultures.\n\nIntracultural miscommunication draws on the fact that all humans subconsciously reflect their cultural backgrounds in day to day communication. Culture does not just lie in the way one eats or dresses, but in the manner in which people present themselves as an entity to the outside world. Language is a huge proponent of communication, as well as a large representation of one's cultural background. Cultural miscommunication often stems from different and conflicting styles of speech and messages. A perfectly normal intonation pattern for a native German speaker may seem angry and aggressive to a foreign listener. Connotations of words, as well as meanings of slang phrases, vary greatly across cultural lines, and a lack of tolerance and understanding of this fact often results in misinterpretations.\n\nNon-verbal communication greatly varies across cultural lines. One must take the time to study different cultures so as to fully understand messages being transmitted. There are many aspects of non-verbal communication, such as gesture, facial expression and inter-personal space, that affect the way a message is construed.\n\nHigh- and low-power distance: \nPower distance is the degree of equality, or inequality, between people in a particular society. The lower the power distance of a country, the more dominant individuality and individual rights are. When power distance is low, society does not emphasize people’s status, power, or wealth. In other words, individualistic cultures have low power distance and collectivist cultures have high power distance. Examples of countries with high power distance include Malaysia, Russia, and Romania while countries with low power distance include Austria, Israel, and Denmark.\n\nIndividualism–collectivism (the Me–We dimension):The individualism-collectivism dimension is thought to be the most important of all value dimensions that distinguish cultures.\nThe individualist culture has a “me” consciousness. Individuals are loosely linked to each other, but largely independent of group identification. Emphasis is placed on the self; they are motivated by their own preferences, needs, and goals, and personal achievement and initiative are stressed. Words such as “independence,” “self,” “privacy,” and “rights” are common in individualistic cultural conversations. Examples of individualistic societies would be the United States, or Western Europe countries.\n\nThe collectivist culture has a “we” consciousness. Individuals are closely linked to one or more groups. Commitment to these valued groups is a primary goal of collectivists, and they tend to look to the goals and successes of the group rather than to the individuals. Words such as “loyalty,” “responsibility,” and “community” permeate collectivist cultural conversations. Examples of collectivist societies are many Asian, African, and South American cultures.\n\n"}
{"id": "4407844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4407844", "title": "EcoTalk", "text": "EcoTalk\n\nEcoTalk is a radio show on the Air America Radio network, hosted by Betsy Rosenberg. Rosenberg is a long-time radio journalist (she spent much of her career with CBS Radio, specifically the \"environmental issues\" reporter for CBS's San Francisco station KCBS-AM) who has focused on environmental issues for the past eight years. From her work many Americans have started to learn about environmental issues facing America and the world today. The radio show also hosts MP3 recordings as well.\n\nThe show previously aired Saturdays on some Air America affiliates from 12PM - 1PM ET; in the fall of 2006 it was expanded to a weeknight program, airing from 9PM - 10PM ET. Rosenberg removed \"EcoTalk\" from Air America's weekday schedule in May 2007 during the network's restructuring, and is currently seeking to re-launch \"EcoTalk\" nationally on other networks and mediums.\n\n"}
{"id": "47697883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47697883", "title": "FADFED", "text": "FADFED\n\nFADFED is a methodology for public opinion research that combines elements of quantitative and qualitative approaches. Developed in Amman, Jordan, FADFED has been used in the Middle East, Europe, and the United States. \n\nFADFED, translated \"Speak it Out\" or \"Let it Out\" in Arabic, was invented by Dr. Sami Hourani and introduced by the Leaders of Tomorrow organization in Amman in 2010. FADFED involves placing white sheets of paper in public spaces and inviting individuals to write on these sheets of paper their responses to a given question prompt or prompts. Researchers using FADFED categorize respondents by demographics as suits their research purposes; for instance, by age or gender. A researcher does so by establishing a color coding of markers used at a particular event. Red markers might be given to women, or green markers to those over 50 years old, as an example. FADFED generates both written and oral discussion and debate on subject topics, and thus raises awareness of often controversial or politically sensitive issues. FADFED may be accompanied by surveys that help to establish demographic data for a given opinion-gathering event. \n\nFADFED is primarily qualitative in nature, but because it attracts many responses quickly (often hundreds in one or two hours) the data produced can be assessed quantitatively as well. In some ways, FADFED resembles focus group research in that it produces open-ended responses from many people in a short amount of time. However, because all FADFED responses are given independently, there is no danger that one voice or opinion could dominate a group discussion, as there can be in focus group research. FADFED gives equal voice to all who choose to respond.\n"}
{"id": "218754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218754", "title": "Fly fishing", "text": "Fly fishing\n\nFly fishing is an angling method in which an artificial \"fly\" is used to catch fish. The fly is cast using a fly rod, reel, and specialized weighted line. Casting a nearly weightless fly or \"lure\" requires casting techniques significantly different from other forms of casting. Fly fishermen use hand tied flies that resemble natural invertebrates, baitfish, other food organisms, or \"lures\" to provoke the fish to strike (bite at the fly).\n\nFly fishing can be done in fresh or salt water. North Americans usually distinguish freshwater fishing between cold-water species (trout, salmon, steelhead) and warm-water species, notably bass. In Britain, where natural water temperatures vary less, the distinction is between game fishing for trout and salmon versus coarse fishing for other species. Techniques for fly fishing differ with habitat (lakes and ponds, small streams, large rivers, bays and estuaries, and open ocean.)\n\nAuthor Izaak Walton called fly fishing \"The Contemplative Man's Recreation\".\n\nIn fly fishing, fish are caught by using artificial flies that are cast with a fly rod and a fly line. The fly line (today, almost always coated with plastic) is heavy enough to send the fly to the target. The main difference between fly fishing and spin or bait fishing is that in fly fishing the weight of the line carries the hook through the air, whereas in spin and bait fishing the weight of the lure or sinker at the end of the monofilament or braided line gives casting distance. Artificial flies are of several types; some imitating an insect (either flying or swimming), others a bait fish or crustacean, others \"attractors\" are known to attract fish although they look like nothing in nature. Flies can be made either to float or sink, and range in size from a few millimeters to 30 cm long; most are between 1 and 5 cm.\n\nArtificial flies are made by fastening hair, fur, feathers, or other materials, both natural and synthetic, onto a hook. The first flies were tied with natural materials, but synthetic materials are now popular and prevalent. Flies are tied in sizes, colors and patterns to match local terrestrial and aquatic insects, baitfish, or other prey attractive to the target fish species.\n\nFly fishing is most renowned as a method for catching trout, grayling and salmon, but it is also used for a wide variety of species including pike, bass, panfish, and carp, as well as marine species, such as redfish, snook, tarpon, bonefish and striped bass. Many fly anglers catch unintended species such as chub, bream and rudd while fishing for 'main target' species such as trout. A growing population of anglers attempt to catch as many different species as possible with the fly. With the advancement of technology and development of stronger rods and reels, larger predatory saltwater species such as wahoo, tuna, marlin and sharks have become target species on fly. Realistically any fish can be targeted and captured on fly as long as the main food source is effectively replicated by the fly itself and suitable gear is used.\n\nMany credit the first recorded use of an artificial fly to the Roman Claudius Aelianus near the end of the 2nd century. He described the practice of Macedonian anglers on the Astraeus River:\n\nIn his book \"Fishing from the Earliest Times\", however, William Radcliff (1921) gave the credit to Martial (Marcus Valerius Martialis), born some two hundred years before Aelianus, who wrote:\nThe last word, somewhat indistinct in the original, is either \"mosco\" (moss) or \"musca\" (fly) but catching fish with fraudulent moss seems unlikely.\n\nThe traditional Japanese method of fly-fishing is known as \"Tenkara\" (, literally: \"from heaven\"). Tenkara originated in the mountains of Japan as a way for professional fishermen and inn-keepers to harvest the local fish, Ayu, trout and char for selling and providing a meal to their guests. Primarily a small-stream fishing method that was preferred for being highly efficient, where the long rod allowed the fisherman to place the fly where the fish would be.\n\nAnother style of fishing in Japan is Ayu fishing. As written by historian Andrew Herd, in the book \"The Fly\", \"Fly fishing became popular with Japanese peasants from the twelfth century onward...fishing was promoted to a pastime worthy of Bushi (warriors), as part of an official policy to train the Bushi's mind during peacetime.\" This refers primarily to Ayu fishing, which commonly uses a fly as lure, uses longer rods, but there is no casting technique required, it's more similar to dapping. Ayu was practiced in the lowlands (foothills), where the Bushi resided, tenkara practiced in the mountains. Fishing flies are thought to have originated in Japan for Ayu fishing over 430 years ago. These flies were made with needles that were bent into shape and used as fishing hooks, then dressed as a fly. The rods along with fishing flies, are considered to be a traditional local craft of the Kaga region.\n\nAlthough anglers in Scotland and Ireland had been fishing the lochs and loughs for trout with an artificial fly for several generations (as far back as 1840 John Colquhoun listed the menus of fly dressings in his book The Moor and Loch detailing the wings, body and hackle of artificial flies in use at the time), the history of stillwater trout fishing in English reservoirs goes back little more than a century. The simple reason for that was because (apart from the Lake District which was somewhat isolated before the construction of the railways) England possessed few large stillwaters that contained trout. That all changed when the water supply reservoirs began to be built to meet the increasing demand for water from the big cities.\n\nThe earliest of these reservoirs to be stocked with trout were Thrybergh Reservoir close to Doncaster completed around 1880, Lake Vyrnwy, Powys in 1891, Ravensthorpe Reservoir in Northamptonshire in 1895 and Blagdon Lake in Somerset which was first opened as a trout fishery in 1904.\n\nOther than a few fragmented references little was written on fly fishing until \"The Treatyse on Fysshynge with an Angle\" was published (1496) within \"The Boke of Saint Albans\" attributed to Dame Juliana Berners. The book contains instructions on rod, line and hook making and dressings for different flies to use at different times of the year. By the 15th century, rods of approximately fourteen feet length with a twisted line attached at its tips were probably used in England.\n\nThe earliest English poetical treatise on Angling by John Dennys, said to have been a fishing companion of Shakespeare, was published in 1613, \"The Secrets of Angling\". Footnotes of the work, written by Dennys' editor, William Lawson, make the first mention of the phrase to 'cast a fly': \"The trout gives the most gentlemanly and readiest sport of all, if you fish with an artificial fly, a line twice your rod's length of three hairs' thickness... and if you have learnt the cast of the fly.\"\n\nThe art of fly fishing took a great leap forward after the English Civil War, where a newly found interest in the activity left its mark on the many books and treatises that were written on the subject at the time. The renowned officer in the Parliamentary army, Robert Venables, published in 1662 \"The Experienced Angler, or Angling improved, being a general discourse of angling, imparting many of the aptest ways and choicest experiments for the taking of most sorts of fish in pond or river\". Another Civil War veteran to enthusiastically take up fishing was Richard Franck. He was the first to describe salmon fishing in Scotland, and both in that and trout-fishing with artificial fly he was a practical angler. He was the first angler to name the burbot, and commended the salmon of the River Thames.\n\n\"The Compleat Angler\" was written by Izaak Walton in 1653 (although Walton continued to add to it for a quarter of a century) and described the fishing in the Derbyshire Wye. It was a celebration of the art and spirit of fishing in prose and verse; 6 verses were quoted from John Dennys's earlier work. A second part to the book was added by Walton's friend Charles Cotton.\n\nWalton did not profess to be an expert with a fishing fly; the fly fishing in his first edition was contributed by Thomas Barker, a retired cook and humorist, who produced a treatise of his own in 1659; but in the use of the live worm, the grasshopper and the frog \"Piscator\" himself could speak as a master. The famous passage about the frog, often misquoted as being about the worm—\"use him as though you loved him, that is, harm him as little as you may possibly, that he may live the longer\"—appears in the original edition. Cotton's additions completed the instruction in fly fishing and advised on the making of artificial flies where he listed sixty five varieties.\n\nCharles Kirby designed an improved fishing hook in 1655 that remains relatively unchanged to this day. He went on to invent the Kirby bend, a distinctive hook with an offset point, still commonly used today.\n\nThe 18th century was mainly an era of consolidation of the techniques developed in the previous century. Running rings began to appear along the fishing rods, which gave anglers greater control over the cast line. The rods themselves were also becoming increasingly sophisticated and specialized for different roles. Jointed rods became common from the middle of the century and bamboo came to be used for the top section of the rod, giving it a much greater strength and flexibility.\n\nThe industry also became commercialized - rods and tackle were sold at the haberdashers store. After the Great Fire of London in 1666, artisans moved to Redditch which became a centre of production of fishing related products from the 1730s. Onesimus Ustonson established his trading shop in 1761, and his establishment remained as a market leader for the next century. He received a Royal Warrant and became the official supplier of fishing tackle to three successive monarchs starting with King George IV over this period.\n\nSome have credited Onesimus with the invention of the multiplying winch, although he was certainly the first to advertise its sale. Early multiplying reels were wide and had a small diameter, and their gears, made of brass, often wore down after extensive use. His earliest advertisement in the form of a trading card date from 1768 and was entitled \"To all lovers of angling\". A full list of the tackles he sold included artificial flies, and 'the best sort of multiplying brass winches both stop and plain'. The commercialization of the industry came at a time of expanded interest in fishing as a recreational hobby for members of the aristocracy.\n\nThe impact of the Industrial Revolution was first felt in the manufacture of fly lines. Instead of anglers twisting their own lines - a laborious and time-consuming process - the new textile spinning machines allowed for a variety of tapered lines to be easily manufactured and marketed.\n\nBritish fly-fishing continued to develop in the 19th Century, with the emergence of fly fishing clubs, along with the appearance of several books on the subject of fly tying and fly fishing techniques.\nAlfred Ronalds took up the sport of fly fishing, learning the craft on the rivers Trent, Blythe and Dove. On the River Blythe, near what is today Creswell Green, Ronalds constructed a bankside fishing hut designed primarily as an observatory of trout behaviour in the river. From this hut, and elsewhere on his home rivers, Ronalds conducted experiments and formulated the ideas that eventually were published in \"The Fly-fisher's Entomology\" in 1836.\n\nHe combined his knowledge of fly fishing with his skill as an engraver and printer, to lavish his work with 20 color plates. It was the first comprehensive work related to the entomology associated with fly fishing and most fly-fishing historians credit Ronalds with setting a literature standard in 1836 that is still followed today. Describing methods, techniques and, most importantly, artificial flies, in a meaningful way for the angler and illustrating them in colour is a method of presentation that can be seen in most fly-fishing literature today.\n\nThe book was mostly about the aquatic insects—mayflies, caddisflies and stoneflies—that trout and grayling feed on and their counterpart artificial imitations. About half the book is devoted to observations of trout, their behaviour, and the methods and techniques used to catch them. Most of this information, although enhanced by Ronalds' experiences and observations, was merely an enhancement of Charles Bowlker's \"Art of Angling\" (first published in 1774 but still in print in 1836).\n\nIn Chapter IV - \"Of a Selection of Insects, and Their Imitations, Used in Fly Fishing\" - for the first time is discussed specific artificial fly imitations by name, associated with the corresponding natural insect. Organized by their month of appearance, Ronalds was the first author to begin the standardization of angler names for artificial flies. Prior to \"The Fly-fisher's Entomology\", anglers had been given suggestions for artificial flies to be used on a particular river or at a particular time of the year, but those suggestions were never matched to specific natural insects the angler might encounter on the water. According to Ernest Schwiebert: \"Ronalds is one of the major milestones in the entire literature of fly-fishing, and with his \"Entomology\" the scientific method has reached angling in full flower. Ronalds was completely original in its content and research, setting the yardstick for all subsequent discussion and illustration of aquatic fly hatches.\n\nModern reel design had begun in England during the latter part of the 18th century, and the predominant model in use was known as the 'Nottingham reel'. The reel was a wide drum which spooled out freely, and was ideal for allowing the bait to drift a long way out with the current. Geared multiplying reels never successfully caught on in Britain, but had more success in the United States, where similar models were modified by George Snyder of Kentucky into his bait-casting reel, the first American-made design, in 1810.\n\nThe material used for the rod itself changed from the heavy woods native to England, to lighter and more elastic varieties imported from abroad, especially from South America and the West Indies. Bamboo rods became the generally favoured option from the mid-19th century, and several strips of the material were cut from the cane, milled into shape, and then glued together to form light, strong, hexagonal rods with a solid core that were superior to anything that preceded them. George Cotton and his predecessors fished their flies with long rods and light lines, allowing the wind to do most of the work of getting the fly to the fish.\nTackle design began to improve from the 1880s. The introduction of new woods to the manufacture of fly rods made it possible to cast flies into the wind on silk lines, instead of horse hair. These lines allowed for a much greater casting distance. However, these early fly lines proved troublesome as they had to be coated with various dressings to make them float and needed to be taken off the reel and dried every four hours or so to prevent them from becoming waterlogged. Another negative consequence was that it became easy for the much longer line to get into a tangle – this was called a 'tangle' in Britain, and a 'backlash' in the US. This problem spurred the invention of the regulator to evenly spool the line out and prevent tangling.\n\nAn American, Charles F. Orvis, designed and distributed a novel reel and fly design in 1874, described by reel historian Jim Brown as the \"benchmark of American reel design\", and the first fully modern fly reel. The founding of The Orvis Company helped institutionalize fly fishing by supplying angling equipment via the circulation of his tackle catalogs, distributed to a small but devoted customer list.\n\nAlbert Illingworth, 1st Baron Illingworth, a textiles magnate, patented the modern form of fixed-spool spinning reel in 1905. When casting Illingworth's reel design, the line was drawn off the leading edge of the spool, but was restrained and rewound by a line pickup, a device which orbits around the stationary spool. Because the line did not have to pull against a rotating spool, much lighter lures could be cast than with conventional reels.\n\nBy the mid to late 19th century, expanding leisure opportunities for the middle and lower classes began to have its effect on fly fishing, which steadily grew in mass appeal. The expansion of the railway network in Britain allowed the less affluent for the first time to take weekend trips to the seaside or to rivers for fishing. Richer hobbyists ventured further abroad. The large rivers of Norway replete with large stocks of salmon began to attract fishermen from England in large numbers in the middle of the century - \"Jones's guide to Norway, and salmon-fisher's pocket companion\", published in 1848, was written by Frederic Tolfrey and was a popular guide to the country.\n\nIn southern England, dry-fly fishing acquired an elitist reputation as the only reliable method of fishing the slower, clearer rivers of the south such as the River Test and the other chalk streams concentrated in Hampshire, Surrey, Dorset and Berkshire (see Southern England Chalk Formation for the geological specifics). The weeds found in these rivers tend to grow very close to the surface, and it was necessary to develop new techniques that would keep the fly and the line on the surface of the stream. These methods became the foundation of all later dry-fly developments. F. M. Halford was a major exponent and is generally accepted as \"The Father of Modern Dry Fly Fishing.\"\n\nHowever, there was nothing to prevent the successful employment of wet flies on these chalk streams, as G. E. M. Skues proved with his nymph and wet fly techniques. To the horror of dry-fly purists, Skues later wrote two books, \"Minor Tactics of the Chalk Stream\", and \"The Way of a Trout with a Fly\", which greatly influenced the development of wet fly fishing. In northern England and Scotland, many anglers also favored wet-fly fishing, where the technique was more popular and widely practiced than in southern England. One of Scotland’s leading proponents of the wet fly in the early-to-mid 19th century was W.C. Stewart, who published \"The Practical Angler\" in 1857.\nIn the United States, attitudes toward methods of fly fishing were not nearly as rigidly defined, and both dry- and wet-fly fishing were soon adapted to the conditions of the country. Fly anglers there are thought to be the first anglers to have used artificial lures for bass fishing. After pressing into service the fly patterns and tackle designed for trout and salmon to catch largemouth and smallmouth bass, they began to adapt these patterns into specific bass flies. Fly anglers seeking bass developed the spinner/fly lure and bass popper fly, which are still used today.\n\nIn the late 19th century, American anglers, such as Theodore Gordon in the Catskill Mountains of New York, began using fly tackle to fish the region’s brook trout-rich streams such as the Beaverkill and Willowemoc Creek. Many of these early American fly anglers also developed new fly patterns and wrote extensively about their sport, increasing the popularity of fly fishing in the region and in the United States as a whole. Albert Bigelow Paine, a New England author, wrote about fly fishing in \"The Tent Dwellers\", a book about a three-week trip he and a friend took to central Nova Scotia in 1908.\n\nParticipation in fly fishing peaked in the early 1920s in the eastern states of Maine and Vermont and in the Midwest in the spring creeks of Wisconsin. Along with deep sea fishing, Ernest Hemingway did much to popularize fly fishing through his works of fiction, including The Sun Also Rises.\n\nFly fishing in Australia took off when brown trout were first introduced by the efforts of Edward Wilson's Acclimatisation Society of Victoria with the aim to \"provide for manly sport which will lead Australian youth to seek recreation on the river's bank and mountainside rather than in the Cafe and Casino. \" The first successful transfer of Brown Trout ova (from the Itchen and Wye) was accomplished by James Arndell Youl, with a consignment aboard \"The Norfolk\" in 1864. Rainbow Trout were not introduced until 1894.\n\nIt was the development of inexpensive fiberglass rods, synthetic fly lines, and monofilament leaders, however, in the early 1950s, that revived the popularity of fly fishing. In recent years, interest in fly fishing has surged as baby boomers have discovered the sport. Movies such as Robert Redford's film \"A River Runs Through It\", starring Craig Sheffer and Brad Pitt, cable fishing shows, and the emergence of a competitive fly casting circuit have added to the sport's visibility.\n\nUnlike other casting methods, fly fishing can be thought of as a method of casting \"line\" rather than lure. Non-flyfishing methods rely on a lure's weight to pull line from the reel during the forward motion of a cast. By design, a fly is too light to be cast, and thus simply follows the unfurling of a properly cast fly line, which is heavier and tapered and therefore more castable than lines used in other types of fishing.\n\nThe physics of flycasting can be described by the transfer of impulse, the product of mass and speed through the rod from base to top and from the transfer of impulse through the fly line all the way to the tip of the leader. Because both the rod and the fly line are tapered the smaller amount of mass will reach high speeds as the waves in rod and line unfurl. The waves that travel through the fly line are called \"loops\". Determining factors in reaching the highest speeds are the basal frequency of a rod and the transfer of the speed from the tip of the rod to the fly line. At the moment the rod tip reaches its highest velocity the direction of the cast is determined.\n\nThe type of cast used when fishing varies according to the conditions. The most common cast is the forward cast, where the angler whisks the fly into the air, back over the shoulder until the line is nearly straight, then forward, using primarily the forearm. The objective of this motion is to \"load\" (bend) the rod tip with stored energy, then transmit that energy to the line, resulting in the fly line (and the attached fly) being cast for an appreciable distance. However, just bending the rod and releasing it to jerk the fly line forward (like a bowstring or a catapult) will not propel the fly line and fly very far. More important is the movement of the rod through an arc acting as a lever, magnifying the hand movement of the caster (of about a foot) to an arc at the rod tip of several feet. Here the rod acts as a lever. In fact, one of the Class 3 types of lever, where The force is applied between the fulcrum and the load (like tweezers). The fulcrum in the fly cast is below the caster's hand gripping the rod; the load is at the rod tip; between the hand exerts the force. The caster's \"stroke\" backwards and forwards, for the backcast and the forward cast, operates the rod as a (slightly flexible) lever. Casting without landing the fly on the water is known as 'false casting', and may be used to pay out line, to dry a soaked fly, or to reposition a cast. Other casts are the roll cast, the single- or double-haul, the tuck cast, and the side- or curve-cast.\n\nDropping the fly onto the water and its subsequent movement on or beneath the surface is one of fly fishing's most difficult aspects; the angler is attempting to cast in such a way that the line lands smoothly on the water and the fly appears as natural as possible. At a certain point, if a fish does not strike, depending upon the action of the fly in the wind or current, the angler picks up the line to make another presentation. On the other hand, if a fish strikes, the angler pulls in line while raising the rod tip. This \"sets\" the hook in the fish's mouth. The fish is played either by hand, where the angler continues to hold the fly line in one hand to control the tension applied to the fish, or by reeling up any slack in the line and then using the hand to act as a drag on the reel. Most modern fly reels have an adjustable, mechanical drag system to control line tension during a fish's run.\n\nBeginners tend to point with the rod to where they want to throw, but the movement of the hand has to be a controlled speed-up and then come to an abrupt stop. The rod will then start to unfurl and the tip of the rod will reach a high speed in the required direction. The high speed of the rod tip toward the target gives the impulse to make the cast, the abrupt stop and retreat of the rod tip is essential for the formation of a loop. Experienced fishermen also improve the speed of the line leaving the rod tip by a technique called \"hauling\", applying a quick fast pull with the hand holding the line. At the end of the cast when the line is stretched the line as a whole will still have speed and the fisherman can let some extra line through their fingers making a false throw, either forward or backward or to finish the cast and start fishing.\n\nThere are a great number of special casts meant to evade problems like trees behind the angler (roll cast), the pulling of the line on the fly by the action of the stream, or to make the fly land more softly.\n\nSpey casting is a casting technique used in fly fishing. Spey casting requires a longer, heavier two-handed fly rod, referred to as a \"Spey rod\". Spey casting is essentially a large roll cast, developed on the Scottish River Spey where high banks do not allow space for the usual back cast.\n\nSpey casting is used for fishing large rivers for salmon and large trout such as steelhead and sea trout. Spey technique is also used in saltwater surf casting. All of these situations require the angler to cast larger flies long distances. The two-handed Spey technique allows more powerful casts and avoids obstacles on the shore by keeping most of the line in front of the angler.\n\nFly fishing for trout is a very popular sport, which can be done using any of the various methods and any of the general types of flies. Many of the techniques and presentations of fly fishing were first developed in fishing for trout. There is a misconception that all fly fishing for trout is done on the surface of the water with \"dry flies.\" In most places, especially heavily fished trout areas, success usually comes from fly fishing using flies called \"nymphs\" that are designed to drift close to the riverbed, also called \"nymphing\". A trout feeds below the water's surface nearly 90 percent of the time. Trout usually only come to the surface when there is a large bug hatch (when aquatic insects grow wings and leave the water to mate and lay eggs). There are exceptions to this rule, however, particularly during the summer months and on smaller mountain streams, when trout often feed on terrestrial insects such as ants, beetles and grasshoppers.\n\nIn order to deceive wary trout, or to reach deep runs where salmon may lie, the fly angler often needs to wade to the right casting position. He therefore requires sure footing and insulation from cold water, both provided by hip boots or chest-high waders.\nThe latter are of two main types, one-piece \"boot foot\" waders and \"stocking foot\" waders, which require external boots.\n\nFormerly of latex rubber, \"stocking foot\" waders are now made of neoprene, usually 3 mm thick, which provide additional warmth. In the mid-20th century, American anglers developed felt boot soles for a better grip in rocky rivers: but felt is now prohibited in some US states, as a vector of fish and plant diseases that damage sport fisheries. Manufacturers now offer wading boots with special rubber treads or metal studs. Breathable Gore-Tex waders provide ventilation when hiking along the water, but do not provide flotation in the event of slipping or falling into deep water. In deep water streams, an inflatable personal flotation device (PFD), or a Type III Kayak fishing vest, adds a degree of safety.\n\nSome \"catch and release\" anglers flatten the barb of their hook. Such \"barbless hooks\" are much easier to remove from the fish (and from the angler, in the event of mishap). Many rivers with special regulations mandate that fishermen use barbless hooks in an effort to conserve a healthy fish population.\n\nDry fly fishing is done with line and flies that float, joined by a leader, usually made of fine polyamide monofilament line. The tapered leader is 3 to 5 meters long, thus nearly invisible where the fly is knotted, and the angler can replace the last meter of nylon as required. Unlike sinking fly (nymph) fishing, the \"take\" on dry flies is visible, explosive and exciting. While trout typically consume about 90% of their diet from below-water sources, the 10% of surface-level consumption by trout is more than enough to keep most anglers busy. Additionally, beginning fly anglers generally prefer dry fly fishing because of the relative ease of detecting a strike and the instant gratification of seeing a trout strike their fly. Nymph fishing may be more productive, but dry fly anglers soon become addicted to the surface strike.\nDry flies may be \"attractors\", such as the Royal Wulff, or \"natural imitators\", such as the elk hair caddis, a caddisfly imitation A beginner may wish to begin with a fly that is easy to see such as a Royal Wulff attractor or a mayfly imitation such as a parachute adams. The \"parachute\" on the parachute adams makes the fly land as softly as a natural on the water and has the added benefit of making the fly very visible from the surface. Being able to see the fly is especially helpful to the beginner. The fly should land softly, as if dropped onto the water, with the leader fully extended from the fly line. Due to rivers having faster and slower currents often running side by side, the fly can over take or be overtaken by the line, thus disturbing the fly's drift. Mending is a technique whereby one lifts and moves the part of the line that requires re-aligning with the fly's drift, thus extending the drag free drift. The mend can be upstream or down stream depending on the currents carrying the line or fly. To be effective, any mending of the fly line should not disturb the natural drift of the fly. Learning to mend is often much easier if the angler can see the fly.\n\nOnce a fish has been caught and landed, the fly may no longer float well. A fly can sometimes be dried and made to float again by \"false\" casting, casting the fly back and forth in the air. In some cases, the fly can be dried with a small piece of reusable absorbent towel, an amadou patch or chamois and after drying placed and shaken in a container full of fly \"dressing\"; a hydrophobic solution. A popular solution to a dry fly which refuses to float is simply to replace it with another, similar or identical fly until the original can fully dry, rotating through a set of flies.\nDry fly fishing on small, clear-water streams can be especially productive if the angler stays as low to the ground and as far from the bank as possible, moving upstream with stealth. Trout tend to face upstream and most of their food is carried to them on the current. For this reason, the fish's attention is normally focused into the current; most anglers move and fish \"into the current\", fishing from a position downstream of the fish's suspected lie. Trout tend to strike their food at current \"edges\", where faster- and slower-moving waters mix. Obstructions to the stream flow, such as large rocks or nearby pools, provide a \"low energy\" environment where fish sit and wait for food without expending much energy. Casting upstream to the \"edge\" of the slower water, the angler can see the fly land and drift slowly back downstream. The challenge in stream fishing is placing the fly with deadly accuracy, within inches of a protective rock for instance, not long range casting. Done properly, the fly seems to be just floating along in the current with a \"perfect drift\" as if not connected to the fly line. The angler must remain vigilant for the \"take\" in order to be ready to raise the rod tip and set the hook.\n\nTrout tend mostly to feed underwater. When fishing deeper waters such as rivers or lakes, putting a fly down to the trout may be more successful than fishing on the surface, especially in the absence of any surface insect activity or hatch. The nymph itself can be weighted, as is the popular bead headed hare's ear nymph or bead headed pheasant tail nymph. Alternatively, the angler can use an attractor pattern such as a prince nymph. Weights can be added to the leader. Probably the best weight to use is twist on lead or other metal strips because it has a much less detrimental effect on the casting ability. A sinking tip fly line can also serve to sink the fly. A common nymphing and general overall fly fishing technique that even beginners can master is a \"dead drift\" or tight line fishing technique, casting directly across the river, letting the fly line drift downriver while keeping any slack out of the line. If the Nymph is drifting too fast, then you should perform an upstream mend. If the nymph is drifting too slowly, you should mend downstream. A beginner need simply to point the rod at the fly, lifting the rod in the event of a strike. This is a \"downstream technique\" where the angler moves in a downstream direction. More advanced techniques make use of a highly visible strike indicator attached to the leader above the sinking fly.\n\nIn New Zealand, nymphing has become the dominant form of fishing in rivers such as the Tongariro River. A technique involving a high visibility indicator, and 2 nymphs tied in short succession (a weighted nymph and a 2nd often un-weighted nymph) means the chances of getting a fly into deeper water with a fly that still moves naturally increases.\n\nIt is also possible to use standard sinking fly lines, especially if the current is strong and if it is difficult to get down to the correct level to catch the trout.\n\nFishing for trout in lakes requires different tactics. A canoe, pontoon boat or a float tube allows an angler to cover a lot more water than waders. Trout may congregate in cooler water near an inflowing stream or an underwater spring and may be lured to bite on a streamer fly. An often successful tactic is to pull a streamer such as a woolly bugger using clear sinking line, behind the watercraft. The somewhat erratic motion of the oars or fins tends to give the streamer an enticing action. Trout also tend to \"cruise\" transitional areas (\"e.g.\" dropoffs, weed bed edges, subsurface river flow at inlets, etc.) Watching for cruising trout and casting well ahead of any visible fish is often successful.\n\nThe legacy of Dr Howard Alexander Bell (1888-1974). \n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>Although he never wrote a word about fishing and shunned publicity, Dr Bell of Blagdon had the greatest formative influence of any man on the development of reservoir fishing in the first half of this century. In those days Blagdon was fished with spinners or with traditional sea-trout and low-water salmon flies. Fly fishing was carried out from boats and bank during the evening rise. Daytime fishing with the fly was thought to be of little use. Bell had read Skues and, following his example, used a marrow spoon to spoon out the trout he caught (one of his friends said, ‘He would spoon out his grandmother if he thought there was anything in her’). The stomach contents of the Blagdon trout were a revelation. There was nothing there but small larvae and pupae, among them the pupae of the famous black midge. Dr Bell tied artificials to represent the insects that he found in the Blagdon trout, including bloodworms, midge and sedge pupae and beetles. His flies were quite small, 10s, 12s and sometimes 14s. He might have a Worm Fly on a single hook on the point, a Grenadier (caddis pupa) on the middle dropper and a Buzzer (midge pupa) on the top. All his dressings were plain and simple. Nevertheless in the 1920s and 30s he set the scene and pointed the way in which imitative patterns of underwater insects were to develop as one of the major techniques of reservoir trout fishing.\n\nOnce hooked, a small trout can be easily retrieved \"on the reel\" or by simply pulling in the fly line with the reel hand while pinching the line between the rod handle and the index finger of the rod hand. It is important to keep the rod tip high, allowing the bend of the rod to absorb the force of the fish's struggles against the line. Larger trout will often take line in powerful runs before they can be landed. Unlike spin fishing where the line is already on the reel, playing a large fish with fly line and a fly reel can present a special challenge. Usually, when a fish is hooked, there will be extra fly line coiled between the reel and the index finger of the rod hand. The challenge is to reel up the loose fly line onto the reel without breaking off a large fish (or getting the line wrapped up around the rod handle, one's foot, a stick or anything else in the way). With experience, really large trout can be put on the reel simply by applying light pressure on the outgoing line using the fisher's fingers. Once the extra line is on the reel, an angler can use the reel's drag system to tire the fish. It is important to use heavier tippet material if it won't spook the fish. The reason why this is important is an exhausted fish can easily die if released too soon. Heavier tippet material enables the angler to land the fish while not over exhausting it.\n\nReleasing wild trout helps preserve the quality of a fishery. Trout are more delicate than most fish and require careful handling. When a trout has been caught but the hook is still embedded, wet your hands before handling the fish. Dry hands stick to the adhesive slime coating the fish and can pull off its scales. It is preferred for the fish to remain in the water when removing the hook, but holding the trout out of the water will not be lethal, provided the hook is removed quickly and the trout is returned immediately.\n\nSmall trout caught on a barb-less hook can be released simply by: grasping the eyelet of the fly, and rotating the eyelet toward the bend (the U-bend). This pulls the point backwards, back through the way it entered. Push the eyelet directly toward the bend until the point is removed from the fish. Large trout can be grasped gently and forceps can be used to grip the bend and push backwards, away from the direction the hook currently points. If necessary, squirming trout can be held on their backs. This often subdues the fish and provides enough time to remove the hook.\n\nOnce the hook has been removed, return the trout into the water. Support the trout until it stabilizes. This includes holding the fish in water deep enough to submerge its gills. After long fights, it may be necessary to manually move water past its gills. This can be done either by holding the trout in moving water with its head facing upstream, or, in calm water, moving the trout backwards and forwards repeatedly. Once stabilized, the trout will swim off on its own. If released prematurely, the trout, not having enough energy to move, will sink to the bottom of the river and suffocate. Take however long is necessary to revive a trout.\n\nSaltwater flyfishing is typically done with heavier tackle than that which is used for freshwater trout fishing, both to handle the larger, more powerful fish, and to accommodate the casting of larger and heavier flies. Salt water fly fishing typically employs the use of wet flies resembling baitfish, crabs, shrimp and other forage. However, saltwater fish can also be caught with poppers and other surface lure similar to those used for freshwater bass fishing, though much larger. Saltwater species sought and caught with fly tackle include: bonefish, redfish or red drum, permit, snook, spotted sea trout, tuna, dorado (mahi-mahi), sailfish, tarpon, striped bass, salmon, giant trevally and marlin. Offshore saltwater species are usually attracted to the fly by \"chumming\" with small baitfish, or \"teasing\" the fish to the boat by trolling a large hookless lure (Billfish are most often caught using this latter method).\n\nMany saltwater species, particularly large, fast and powerful fish, are not easily slowed down by \"palming\" the hand on the reel. Instead, a purpose-made saltwater reel for these species must have a powerful drag system. Furthermore, saltwater reels purpose-made for larger fish must be larger, heavier, and corrosion-resistant; a typical high-quality saltwater reel costs 500.00 USD or more. Corrosion-resistant equipment is key to durability in all types of saltwater fishing, regardless of the size and power of the target species.\nSaltwater fly fishing is most often done from a boat, either a shallow draft flat boat is used to pursue species such as bonefish, redfish, permit and tarpon in shallow waters, or from larger offshore boats for pursuing sailfish, tuna, dorado, marlin and other pelagics and may be done from shore, such as wading flats for bonefish or redfish or surf fishing for striped bass and other assorted fish. Typically, most trout fly fisherman need to practice new skills to catch saltwater fish on a fly rod. Ocean fish are usually harder to catch. They can be extremely spooky, and much larger. Trout fisherman need to practice with at least an 8 weight fly rod and accurately cast the line 30–90 feet if they are going to have success—particularly in the flat areas fishing for bonefish, redfish, permit, tarpon, jacks and more.\n\nHooks for saltwater flies must also be extremely durable and corrosion resistant. Most saltwater hooks are made of stainless steel, but the strongest (though less corrosion resistant) hooks are of high-carbon steel. Typically, these hooks vary from size #8 to #2 for bonefish and smaller nearshore species, to size #3/0 to #5/0 for the larger offshore species.\n\nFly fishing tackle comprises the fishing tackle or equipment typically used by fly anglers. Fly fishing tackle includes:\n\nFly rods are typically between 1.8 m (6 ft) long in freshwater fishing and up to 4.5 m (15 ft) long for two-handed fishing for salmon or steelhead, or in tenkara fishing in small streams. The average rod for fresh and salt water is around in length and weighs from 3 –5 ounces, though a recent trend has been to lighter, shorter rods for fishing smaller streams. Another trend is to longer rods for small streams. The choice of rod lengths and line weights used varies according to local conditions, types of flies being cast, and/or personal preference.\n\nWhen actively fishing, the angler may want to keep the fly line lightly pressed against the rod handle with the index finger of the casting arm. The free arm is used to pull line from the reel or to retrieve line from the water. If a fish strikes, the angler can pinch the line with the index finger against the rod handle and lift the rod tip, setting the hook.\n\nIn broadest terms, flies are categorised as either imitative or attractive. Imitative flies resemble natural food items. Attractive flies trigger instinctive strikes by employing a range of characteristics that do not necessarily mimic prey items. Flies can be fished floating on the surface (dry flies), partially submerged (emergers), or below the surface (nymphs, streamers, and wet flies). A dry fly is typically thought to represent an insect landing on, falling on (terrestrials), or emerging from, the water's surface as might a grasshopper, dragonfly, mayfly, ant, beetle, stonefly or caddisfly. Other surface flies include poppers and hair bugs that might resemble mice, frogs, etc. Sub-surface flies are designed to resemble a wide variety of prey including aquatic insect larvae, nymphs and pupae, baitfish, crayfish, leeches, worms, etc. Wet flies, known as streamers, are generally thought to imitate minnows, leeches or scuds.\nThroughout history, artificial flies constructed of furs, feathers, and threads bound on a hook have been created by anglers to imitate fish prey. The first known mention of an artificial fly was in 200AD in Macedonia. Most early examples of artificial flies imitated common aquatic insects and baitfish. Today, artificial flies are tied with a wide variety of natural and synthetic materials (like mylar and rubber) to represent all manner of potential freshwater and saltwater fish prey to include aquatic and terrestrial insects, crustaceans, worms, baitfish, vegetation, flesh, spawn, small reptiles, amphibians, mammals and birds, etc.\n\nA few knots have become more or less standard for attaching the various parts of the fly lines and backing, etc., together. A detailed discussion of most of these knots is available in any good book on fly fishing. Some of the knots that are in most every fly angler's arsenal are: the improved clinch knot which is commonly used to attach the fly to the leader, the overhand slip knot or arbor knot which is used to attach the backing to the spool, the albright knot which can be used to attach the fly line to the backing. A loop can also be put in fly line backing using a bimini twist. Often, a loop is added to the business end of the fly line to facilitate the connection to the leader. This loop may take one of several forms. It may be formed by creating a loop in the end of the fly line itself or by adding a braided loop or a loop of monofilament nylon (as in \"Gray's Loop\"). Alternatively, a single length of monofilament nylon, or fluorocarbon, may be tied to the end of the fly line using a nail or \"tube knot\" or a \"needle knot\". A loop can then be tied at the end of this monofilament butt length or butt section using a double surgeon's knot or a perfection loop, to which the tapered or untapered leader, also looped using a double surgeon's knot or a perfection loop, may in turn be connected via a loop to loop connection. The use of loop to loop connections between the fly line and the leader provides a quick and convenient way to change or replace a tapered leader. Many commercially produced tapered leaders come with a pre-tied loop connection.\n\nSome traditionalists create their own tapered leaders using progressively smaller-diameter lengths of monofilament line tied together with the blood, \"barrel knot\" or \"surgeons knot\".\n"}
{"id": "15499159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15499159", "title": "Fuji (planchette writing)", "text": "Fuji (planchette writing)\n\nFuji () is a method of \"planchette writing\", or \"spirit writing\", that uses a suspended sieve or tray to guide a stick which writes Chinese characters in sand or incense ashes.\n\nBeginning around the Ming Dynasty (1368-1644 CE), the \"fuji\" method and written characters changed from 扶箕 \"support the sieve\" (spirit-writing using a suspended sieve or winnowing tray) to 扶乩 \"support the planchette\" (directing a stick or stylus, typically made from a willow or peach branch, and roughly resembling a dowsing-rod).\n\nChinese \"fuji\" spirit-writing involves some specialized vocabulary. \"Luan\" (鸞) \"a mythical phoenix-like bird\" is used in synonyms such as \"fuluan\" (扶鸞, \"support the phoenix\"), \"feiluan\" (飛鸞 \"flying phoenix,\" and \"jiangluan\" (降鸞, \"descending phoenix\"). The \"fuji\" process involves specialized participants. The two people (or rarely one) who hold the sieve or stylus are called \"jishou\" (乩手, \"planchette hands\"), only one of whom is ostensibly possessed by a \"shen\" (神, \"spirit; god\") or \"xian\" (仙, \"immortal; transcendent\"). Their assistants include a \"pingsha\" (平沙, \"level sand\") who smooths out the \"shapan\" (沙盤, \"sand table\"), a \"dujizhe\" (讀乩者, \"planchette reader\") who interprets the characters, and a \"chaojizhe\" (抄乩者, \"planchette copyist\") who records them. \"Jiwen\" (乩文, \"planchette writing\") is a general reference to texts produced through Chinese \"fuji\" spirit-writing.\n\nSpirit-writing has a long history in Chinese folk religion, and is first recorded (Chao 1942:12) during the Liu Song Dynasty (420-479 CE). \"Fuji\" planchette-writing became popular during the Song Dynasty (960-1279), when authors like Shen Kuo and Su Shi associated its origins with summoning Zigu (紫姑, \"Purple Maiden\"), the Spirit of the Latrine. \"Fuji\" divination flourished during the Ming Dynasty, and the Jiajing Emperor (r. 1522-1566) built a special \"jitan\" (乩壇, \"planchette altar\") in the Forbidden City (Despeux 2007:428). Although the practice of \"fuji\" planchette-writing was prohibited by the Qing Dynasty (1644-1912) Legal Code, it has continued and is currently practiced at Daoist temples in Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Malaysia as well as folk shrines in China.\n\n\"Fuji\" is particularly associated with the Quanzhen School of Daoism. The \"Daozang\" \"Daoist Canon\" contains several scriptures supposedly written through spirit-writing. Two examples are the \"Zitong dijun huashu\" (梓潼帝君化書, \"Book of Transformations of the Divine Lord of Zitong\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "488916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=488916", "title": "Half-Life: Opposing Force", "text": "Half-Life: Opposing Force\n\nHalf-Life: Opposing Force is an expansion pack for Valve Software's science fiction first-person shooter video game \"Half-Life\". The game was developed by Gearbox Software and Valve Corporation and published by Sierra On-Line on November 19, 1999. \"Opposing Force\" is the first expansion for \"Half-Life\" and was announced in April 1999. Randy Pitchford, the lead designer on the game, later noted that he believed Gearbox was selected to develop \"Opposing Force\" because Valve wanted to concentrate on their future projects. Over the course of development, Gearbox brought in a variety of outside talent from other areas of the video games industry to help bolster various aspects of design.\n\n\"Opposing Force\" returns to the same setting as \"Half-Life\", but instead portrays the events from the perspective of a U.S. Marine, one of the enemy characters in the original game. The player character, Adrian Shephard, is sent in to neutralize the Black Mesa Research Facility when a scientific mishap causes it to be invaded by aliens, but quickly finds that the Marines are outnumbered and slowly being beaten back by a second alien race and black operations units.\n\n\"Opposing Force\" was received well by critics, many describing it as the new benchmark title for expansion packs, in a similar fashion to how \"Half-Life\" revolutionized the first-person shooter genre. Other reviewers, however, thought that the game still had many of the negative aspects of other expansion packs, although it was still regarded as an exceptional add-on.\n\nAs an expansion pack for \"Half-Life\", \"Opposing Force\" is a first-person shooter. The overall gameplay of \"Opposing Force\" does not significantly differ from that of \"Half-Life\". Players are required to navigate through the game's levels, fight hostile non-player characters and solve a variety of puzzles to advance. The game continues \"Half-Life\"s methods of an unbroken narrative. The player sees everything through the first person perspective of the protagonist and remains in control of the player character for almost all of the game. Story events are conveyed through the use of scripted sequences rather than cut scenes. Progress through the game's world is continuous; although the game is divided up into chapters, the only significant pauses are when the game needs to load the next part of an environment. \"Opposing Force\" also features an extended multiplayer, incorporating the various new environments and weapons into the original deathmatch mode used in \"Half-Life\". After release, a new capture the flag mode with additional levels, items and powerups, was created by Gearbox for the game.\n\nFor the most part the player battles through the single-player game alone, but is occasionally assisted by friendly non-player characters. Security guards and scientists will occasionally help the player in reaching new areas and convey relevant plot information. However, \"Opposing Force\" also features fellow U.S. Marines who will assist the player in combat to a far greater degree than security guards. Three types of Marines are featured in the game: the soldier will simply provide fire support for the player with a submachine gun, shotgun or machine gun, the combat medic is capable of healing the player and other non-player characters, while the engineer can cut through doors and remove obstacles, allowing the player and their squad to proceed unhindered. A selection of enemies from \"Half-Life\" populate the game, including alien creatures such as headcrabs and Vortigaunts.\n\nA variety of new alien non-player characters, labelled \"Race X\", appear in the game as well, often engaging in combat with the aliens from Xen. The player also encounters human opponents in the form of a detachment of black operations units who have been sent to destroy the base in the wake of the failure of the U.S. Marines to eliminate the alien threat. A limited selection of \"Half-Life\"s weaponry is allocated to the player to defend themselves with, although several new weapons such as a sniper rifle, combat knife and a variety of alien weaponry are also present in the game.\n\n\"Opposing Force\" is set in the same location and timeframe as that of \"Half-Life\", taking place at a remote New Mexico laboratory called the Black Mesa Research Facility. In \"Half-Life\", the player takes on the role of Gordon Freeman, a scientist involved in an accident that opens an inter-dimensional portal to the borderworld of Xen, allowing the alien creatures of Xen to attack the facility. The player guides Freeman in an attempt to escape the facility and close the portal, ultimately traveling to Xen to do so. \"Opposing Force\", however, shows the events of \"Half-Life\" from the perspective of a different protagonist. The player assumes the role of Adrian Shephard, a U.S. Marine Corporal assigned to the Hazardous Environment Combat Unit, a specialized unit sent in to Black Mesa by the government to quell the alien threat and silence all witnesses. However, after Shephard becomes isolated from his fellow Marines, he must ally with the Black Mesa personnel and attempt to escape the base.\n\n\"Opposing Force\" opens with Shephard riding on a V-22 Osprey with his squad. His squad discuss their deployment, somewhat irritated that they have not been told what they are being deployed for. However, as they are nearing their Landing Zone at Black Mesa, airborne alien creatures attack the Osprey formation, causing Shephard's Osprey to crash land. Shephard regains consciousness in a Black Mesa medical bay, tended to by the science team, learning that the Marines are being steadily beaten by the alien forces from Xen and orders have come through to pull out. Consequently, Shephard departs to reach an extraction point and escape the facility. However, Shephard is prevented from reaching the extraction point by the enigmatic G-Man, forcing the evacuation craft to leave without him.\n\nOther Marines who have also been left behind team up with Shephard and attempt to reach another extraction point near Black Mesa's Lambda Complex, but en route they come under attack from black operations units seeking to thoroughly contain the situation and eliminate all survivors. Shephard makes it to the Lambda Complex alive, and briefly sees Gordon Freeman as the latter teleports to Xen in the final stages of \"Half-Life\". To escape the teleportation chamber, Shephard is forced to enter a separate portal, briefly taking him to Xen before depositing him in an entirely different area of the facility. The facility is now heavily damaged, and it soon becomes clear that a new alien race, Race X, has exploited the situation to mount a localized invasion, attacking both human and Xen forces in Black Mesa indiscriminately. Fighting between the black operations units and Race X quickly intensifies.\n\nShephard soon encounters more stranded Marine units in the wreckage of the base, and tries to break through the black operations units to reach an escape point past the facility's storage unit, but meets heavy resistance from both Race X and the black operations units. A surviving Black Mesa security guard reveals to Shephard that the black operators intend to detonate a tactical nuclear weapon in the base, thereby totally sealing it off and killing everything in it. After successfully neutralizing the guarding black operations unit, Shephard disarms the device and proceeds to the nearby storage areas, intent on escape. However, the G-Man rearms the device as Shephard departs. The storage unit has become a thick battleground between Race X and the black operation units, and although Shephard manages to evade them, he is informed by another security guard that something very large is coming through an alien portal blocking the exit path.\n\nAt the portal, Shephard discovers a gene worm, a massive creature facilitating the Race X invasion. Shephard is able to kill the creature, but just afterwards he is teleported onto an Osprey by the G-Man. As the G-Man congratulates Shephard on his accomplishments, the nuclear device detonates in the background, destroying Black Mesa. The game closes with the G-Man detaining Shephard someplace where he can tell no one of what he has seen and cannot be harmed, pending further evaluation.\n\n\"Half-Life: Opposing Force\" was announced by developer Gearbox Software on April 15, 1999. In their press release, founder Randy Pitchford stated that \"our number one goal is to preserve the integrity of \"Half-Life\" and provide new experiences that expand upon the sensation of the original\", and also announced that the expansion pack would allow the player to play as one of the soldiers featured in the original game. The name \"Opposing Force\" has a double meaning, referring both to the fact that the player is one of the enemies in the original game, as well as to Newton's third law of motion. In a later interview, Pitchford stated that he believed that Valve Software offered Gearbox the chance to make a \"Half-Life\" expansion was from a wish \"to focus on their future titles\". In addition, Pitchford commented that Valve and Gearbox had agreed not to \"severely modify\" the game engine used by \"Half-Life\" and \"Opposing Force\" as it \"risks breaking all of the wonderful work\" that the game's custom content community was creating. Substantial information on \"Opposing Force\"s development direction, as well as new locations, characters and story were revealed at the 1999 Electronic Entertainment Expo convention. The official website for \"Opposing Force\", hosted by publisher Sierra Studios, was put online in July 1999.\n\nOver the course of the game's development, Gearbox acquired various outside talent to assist in designing some aspects of the game. In June 1999, Gearbox announced that level designer Richard Gray would be assisting in developing the multiplayer aspects of the game. Several other designers subsequently joined the project in September 1999, with collective experience from the development of \"Daikatana\", \"Quake II\", \"Doom\" and \"Shadow Warrior\". In the subsequent two months, media releases displaying a variety of screenshots were unveiled. The game was released on November 19, 1999. Gearbox later released a multiplayer update in May 2000, adding a capture the flag mode to the game, along with various items to accompany the new mode. \"Opposing Force\" was later released on Valve Software's Steam content delivery system. \"Opposing Force\" was published as part of Sierra's \"Half-Life: Generation\" compilation in 2002, and as part of Valve Software and Electronic Arts' \"Half Life 1: Anthology\" on September 26, 2005.\n\n\"Opposing Force\" received a very favorable reception from critics, holding a score of 85.45% on the review aggregator site GameRankings. In the United States, the game sold 108,008 copies by the end of 1999. Although figures for the game's sales on Steam have not been released, \"Opposing Force\" eventually sold over 1.1 million copies at retail.\n\n\"Computer and Video Games\" reviewer Kim Randell noted that \"Gearbox has obviously gone to great pains to provide a similar experience to the original\". Praise was also given to the game's multiplayer; Randell stated that the new additions for multiplayer made it the area of \"Opposing Force\" that \"really shines\". Randell closed the review by concluding that \"Opposing Force\" is \"an awesome achievement\". Erik Wolpaw, writing for GameSpot, noted that as most expansion packs were mediocre, \"it's appropriate that Gearbox Software's \"Opposing Force\", the official expansion for the genre-redefining \"Half-Life\", in turn sets a new standard of quality for future action-game mission packs\". Wolpaw praised the design of the single-player campaign, commenting that \"you can sense the designers' enthusiasm as one memorable scene unfolds after another, and it compels you to keep playing\". Although criticizing some elements of the game's artificial intelligence and describing some of the new models as \"merely window dressing\", the review concluded that \"Opposing Force\" was an \"impassioned application of creative design\".\n\nOther reviews echoed many of the positive aspects of the game. \"GamePro\" stated that \"Gearbox has done one hell of a job in creating not just an add-on for \"Half-Life\", but a continuation of a masterpiece\", praising both level design and story elements, but noted that it was a little too short. However, some critics dissented on the idea that \"Opposing Force\" was as influential as other reviewers made out.\n\n\"PC Zone\" stated that \"the taste left in the mouth is a bitter one\", noting that \"\"Opposing Force\" is a few excellent ideas strung together by pedestrian \"Half-Life\" padding\", but concluded that \"it was still a good weekend's worth of entertainment\". Eurogamer stated that \"Opposing Force\" still had similar problems to other expansion packs, commenting that \"χ amount of new content has been created and it is going to be cut into the old content in a linear way to make it look like an all new game\", but noted that \"fortunately though the new stuff in \"Opposing Force\"... is pretty damn good\". Although praising the level design as the game's strongest point, the reviewer felt that \"towards the end of the game... they were running out of development time\". Reviewing for IGN, Vincent Lopez stated that the game \"does a fantastic job of making you remember exactly why you enjoyed the original so much\", but criticized this as the biggest drawback, commenting that \"you may find yourself wishing for a more original experience\", but concluded that \"for good, and bad: it's good to be back\". \n\nThe game won several publication awards, as well as the Computer Game of the Year Interactive Achievement Award of 2000 from the Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences. The editors of \"PC Gamer US\" presented \"Opposing Force\" with their 1999 \"Best Expansion Pack\" award, and nominated it as 1999's overall best game of the year, although it lost the latter prize to \"Homeworld\". They wrote that \"Opposing Force\" \"makes history by becoming the first expansion pack to be considered for Game of the Year. Yes, it really is that good.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58565857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58565857", "title": "Illumine Lingao", "text": "Illumine Lingao\n\nIllumine Lingao (), also known as Morning Star of Lingao, is a Chinese alternate history novel co-written by Xiao Feng under the pen name \"吹牛者\". The novel was originally published online in 2009 on Qidian Chinese Network. The first print volume was published by China Radio Film & TV Press in 2017.\n\nIn the story, more than 500 people from early 21st century modern China intentionally travel back in time to the late Ming Dynasty in 1628. Settling in Lingao County on the island of Hainan, the time travelers set out to establish an industrialized society and channge the course of history.\n\nThe novel originates from an internet BBS discussion started in the year 2006, about how time travelers can survive and change the history by using modern technologies. With permission, Xiao Feng, as one of the members of that BBS, collected the ideas by netizens of various educational backgrounds shawn in the discussion, and adapted them for a chuanyue novel. After several unsuccessful attempts of writing the novel by Xiao and the others, he eventually began to published the novel online in 2009, and then updated the chapters slowly. In the years after the first part was released, he continued to collect fan works written by more and more readers of the novel, and adapted them into the new chapters. In 2017, the first volume of a revised version by Xiao himself was published. More printed sequels are said to be on the way after that. \n\nFrom the 2010s, Illumine Lingao became an increasingly concerned work in China's Internet literature studies for its collective and collaborative style of writing, and for its detailed descriptions of the proto-industrialized \"new world\" built by the time travelers. The novel is praised as the \"encyclopedia of time travel\" among readers. Some critics also call it \"a unique phenomenon of contemporary Chinese literature\". \n\nIllumine Lingao has some similarities with the 1632 series by Eric Flint. But no evidence has shown that the latter work had significant influence on it.\n\nXiao Feng and some of the major fan work writers have held (or participate in) some fan conventions in real life, including a 2017 lecture given by Xiao in Peking University.\n\n"}
{"id": "16934559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16934559", "title": "Integrative communication theory", "text": "Integrative communication theory\n\nIntegrative communication theory is a theory of cross-cultural adaptation proposed by Young Yun Kim. The first widely published version of Kim's theory is found in the last three chapters of a textbook authored by William Gudykunst with Young Yun Kim as second author. See acculturation and assimilation. \n\nYoung Yun Kim's assimilation Theory of Cross-Cultural Adaptation maintains that human transformation takes only one path, assimilative. Kim argues that all human beings experience conformity as they move into a new and culturally unfamiliar environment and that they do so by \"unlearning\" who they were originally. The concept, cross-cultural adaptation, refers to a process in and through which an individual achieves an increasing level of psychological and functional fitness with respect to the receiving environment. Kim's theory postulates a zero-sum process whereby assimilation or \"adaptation\" occurs only to the extent that the newcomer lose the characteristics of their original cultural identity, such as language, customs, beliefs and values. \n\nKim's theory however is self-contradictory for on one hand Kim argues that the newcomer \"evolves\" toward becoming exactly like the host majority by internalizing the majority's ways of thinking, feeling and behaving while unlearning their own. But on the other hand Kim argues that out of this transformation emerges an \"intercultural identity,\" that somehow exists beyond all the contingencies of culture and language itself. Kim claims that individuals that enter a new culture for varying lengths of time, and to include migrant workers, diplomats, and expatriates alike \n\nKim's research into cross-cultural adaptation began in the 1970s through a survey of Korean immigrants in the Chicago area. It subsequently expanded to study other immigrant and refugee groups in the United States to include American Indians, Japanese and Mexican Americans, and Southeast Asian refugees. In addition to studying groups of immigrants, Young Yun Kim researched groups of students studying abroad in the United States, as well as international students in Japan, Korean expatriates in the United States and American expatriates in South Korea. The first outline of her theory was found in an article titled, \"Toward an Interactive Theory of Communication - Acculturation\", leading to a complete rendition of the theory in \"Communication and Cross-Cultural Adaptation: An Integrative Theory\", which was further refined and updated with \"Becoming Intercultural: An Integrative Theory of Communication and Cross-Cultural Adaptation\".\n\nKim states that there are five key \"missing links\" in cross-cultural adaptation literature, which her theory attempts to cover:\n\n\n\nAll human beings are born into an unfamiliar environment and are brought up to become part of a culture. This process is known as enculturation, and refers to the organization, integration, and maintenance of a home environment throughout the formative years along with the internal change that occurs with increasing interaction of the individual in its cultural environment. \n\nThe transition into a new culture can be shocking, and internal conflicts often arise. The individual must learn to adapt and grow into the new environment, as they are often faced with situations that challenge their cultural norms and worldview. This is the process known as acculturation as described by Shibutani and Kwan in 1965. According to Kim, as new learning occurs, deculturation or unlearning of some of the old cultural elements has to occur, at least in the sense that new responses are adopted in situations that previously would have evoked old ones. The individual is forced to develop new habits, which may come in conflict with the old ones. Kim states that the ultimate theoretical directionality of adaptive change is toward assimilation, a state of the maximum possible convergence of strangers' internal and external conditions to those of the natives. Assimilation is an ongoing process and is not usually fully attained, regardless of the amount of time spent in the new culture.\n\nIntegrative communication theory suggests that these varying levels of integration within a culture directly impact the individual's experience in the new culture, which other research suggests. According to Don C. Locke, one major difference among members of various cultural groups within America is the degree to which they have immersed themselves into the culture of the United States. He states that members of culturally diverse groups can be placed into several categories. Bicultural individuals are able to function as competently in the dominant culture as their own while holding on to manifestations of their own culture. Traditional individuals hold on to a majority of cultural traits from the culture of origin and reject many traits of the dominant culture. A third type of individual will acculturate and give up most cultural traits of the culture of origin and traits of the dominant culture. Finally, a marginal individual does not fit into the culture of origin nor into the dominant culture.\n\nKim has developed an integrative communication theory of cross-cultural adaptation which conceives adaptation as a dialectic process of the \"stress-adaptation-growth\" dynamic that gradually leads to greater functional fitness and psychological health with regards to the host environment. This portion of Kim's theory focuses on the stress that inevitably accompanies a cross-cultural move, as the individual strives to retain aspects of their old culture while also attempting to integrate into the new one. The internal conflict that arises results in a state of disequilibrium of emotional \"lows\" of uncertainty confusion, and anxiety.\nPeople handle this change in various ways, to include avoidance, denial, and withdrawal, as well as regression into pre-existing habits in order to eliminate discomfort in the new environment. Others develop new habits and begin the process of adaptation, allowing them to become better suited to their environment. Once this occurs, a period of growth often accompanies. The stress adaptation growth dynamic, therefore, is not a linear process but a back and forth endeavor that will entail periods of regression and subsequent progression. Assimilation can be defined as the process by which a person takes material into their mind from the environment, which may mean changing the evidence of their senses to make it fit, whereas accommodation is the difference made to one's mind or concepts by the process of assimilation.\n\nCommunication is a prerequisite for successful adaptation of individuals into a new environment. This relies on decoding, or the capacity of strangers to receive and process information, as well as encoding, or the designing and executing mental plans in initiating or responding to messages.\nThere are three commonly recognized categories:\n\nParticipation in the interpersonal and mass communication activities of the host society is crucial. Host interpersonal communication helps strangers to secure vital information and insight into the mind-sets and behaviors of the local people, thereby providing strangers a reference point for their own behaviors, while host mass communication relies on integrating the individual into the host society via media, radio, television, etc...and serves as an important source of cultural and language learning without relying heavily on individual participation and exposure.\n\nIn the initial phase of integration, ethnic communities serve to allow strangers to receive some of the comforts of their previous culture, and serve to facilitate adaptation. After the initial phase, ethnic social communication allows individuals to maintain connectedness to their original culture. \n\nSome cultures make it easier to assimilate than others, and the host environment has a direct impact on the nature of an individual's integration. Some societies display more openness and warmth to outsiders than others. The degree to which a given host environment exerts receptivity and conformity pressure on a stranger is closely influenced by the overall ethnic group strength, which is a measure of a given stranger's ethnic group's capacity to influence the surrounding host environment at large.\n\nAn individual can better prepare themselves to enter a new environment, both physically and emotionally, which will have a positive effect on their ability to transition. This takes into account the mental, emotional, and motivational readiness to deal with the new environment, including understanding of the new language and culture. Having an open mind helps to alleviate some of the culture shock that is associated with assimilation into the new environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "6715581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6715581", "title": "International Union of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences", "text": "International Union of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences\n\nThe International Union of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences (IUAES) is the largest world forum of anthropologists and ethnologists, with members from more than fifty countries. Every five years, in different parts of the world, the IUAES sponsors a major Congress (ICAES/World Congress), gathering researchers from all of the various subfields and branches of anthropology. The IUAES was founded under the auspices of UNESCO in 1948. The International Congress of Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences (ICAES) had been separately founded in London in 1934. The two organizations united in 1948, and merged officially in 1968. In 2018, IUAES became one of the chambers of the newly established World Anthropological Union (WAU). The main objective of the IUAES is the internationalization of anthropology, and the cross-cultural honing and public dissemination of anthropological research perspectives.\n\nThe earliest predecessor of the IUAES was the International Congress of Anthropology and Prehistoric Archaeology, which was founded in La Spezia, Italy, in 1865. In 1932, in Basle, Switzerland, it was decided to split the congress into two sections, one for the Anthropological and Ethnological Sciences and one for the Prehistoric and Protohistoric Sciences. This is how the ICAES was born, becoming operative in 1934, when it held its first meeting in London, UK. Meetings were scheduled for every four years, but only one more congress was held, in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1938, before World War II made it impossible for people to convene. It took ten years before the next congress was held, in 1948, in Brussels, Belgium. Here a special committee was established to be concerned solely with anthropological interests and this became the IUAES. It was formed under the aegis of UNESCO and became a member of the International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies (ICPHS), which it remains to this day. \n\nThe four-year congress cycle continued with meetings in Vienna (1952), Philadelphia (1956), Paris (1960) and Moscow (1964). Up to this point the IUAES remained separate from the ICAES, and was presided over by different people until Henri Vallois took over both presidencies in 1956. Just four years prior to this, in 1952, the International Social Science Council (ISSC) was founded and the IUAES has been represented in it ever since. By 1964, at the ICAES in Moscow, it was decided that the two organizations be joined de facto. At the following congress, in Tokyo (1968), they were united de jure. At the same congress, it was also decided to change the time interval between congresses from four to five years, scheduling the following congress for 1973 in Chicago. At the subsequent congress, held in New Delhi, India, in 1978, it was proposed to organize inter-congresses. These smaller meetings enable countries which do not have the resources to hold a large-scale congress to participate actively. IUAES Inter-Congresses are held with varied frequency in the five-year interval between congresses. To ensure the financial autonomy of the Union from its congresses, in 1998 it was decided to again separate the presidency of the IUAES from that of each succeeding ICAES. The ICAES scheduled for 2008 in Kunming, China, had to be postponed by one year, and was held in 2009 as the IUAES World Congress. The next World Congress was held in Manchester, UK, in 2013.\n\n\nThe IUAES has an administrative structure involving three bodies: the General Assembly, the Permanent Council, and the Executive Committee. The Executive Committee is the main regulatory body, making policy decisions on behalf of, and subject to the authority of, the Permanent Council. The Permanent Council consists of national delegations empowered to vote on any matters concerning the Union. The votes may follow discussions held at the General Assembly. The latter can also put forward proposals but has no decision-making authority. All policy decisions are implemented by the Executive Committee. The structural guidelines of the IUAES are given in its Statutes, which have grown from a simple set of rules into an array of constitutional by-laws. \n\nThe core officers of the IUAES Executive Committee are the President, the Secretary-General and the Treasurer, with the Secretary-General maintaining all records of the Union and supervising all communications, including the production and dissemination of new IUAES publications (including Newsletters and Handbooks), as well as the designing and updating of the IUAES website. The current Secretary-General is Noel B. Salazar. The rest of the Executive Committee, that is, the past-president, the vice-presidents (with the president of the following congress acting as an additional vice-president) and the members-at-large, aid in the decision-making process. \n\nThe scientific work of the IUAES is carried out by its Commissions, which focus on particular topics of specialized interest. The IUAES Commissions, of which more than thirty are currently recognized, (Nas and Zhang 2009:460-461), determine their own administrative structure and set of activities, which generally include the organization of panels, workshops, and sessions at the quinquennial ICAES. Some commissions have been in existence for decades, while others have rapidly disbanded. Some commissions have their own websites, organize their own conferences, and sponsor the publication of journals or book series. Groups of commissions sometimes co-sponsor initiatives of common interest, and it is possible for IUAES members to be involved in the work of multiple commissions.\n\nAs stated in Article 3 of its Statutes, posted on the IUAES website, the objectives of the Union are:\n\nReaching these objectives requires the internationalization of anthropological practice through cross-cultural exchanges based on inclusive, democratic, and intellectually pluralistic policies. These needs were formally acknowledged under the leadership of Cyril S. Belshaw, president in the period 1978-1983, who sensed that \"the mood is to place the Union on an active footing\" (Belshaw, 1979: 244). The IUAES Congresses and Inter-Congresses catalyze this process, which is also facilitated by the development and maintenance of efficient channels of membership-wide communication. Initially, news about the IUAES was disseminated through \"Current Anthropology\", the journal of the Wenner-Gren Foundation, which also supported the IUAES. Starting in 1981, however, Dr. Eric Sunderland—the longest serving and one of the most influential, and beloved, IUAES Secretary-Generals—introduced a Newsletter, which he continued to edit and distribute until he moved from his post to become President of the IUAES. Dr. Peter J. M. Nas, who became the next Secretary-General, continued and expanded the publication of the Newsletter, and also developed an official website (), which rapidly became the central point of contact for the Union.\n\nThe Williamsburg Congress of 1998 marked the end of a century of anthropology by highlighting that: \"No discipline is more important for teaching people about themselves and others, and how they may live together in the next century, than anthropology\" (Shahshahani, 1999:5). It was also pointed out that:\"Anthropology is either truly international or not at all\"(Godina, 1999:vii). The IUAES, which celebrated the 60th anniversary of its founding in 2008, enters the second decade of the 21st century with a renewed sense of the importance of its mission, and urgency of its objectives.\n\n"}
{"id": "9892691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9892691", "title": "Kaamatan", "text": "Kaamatan\n\nKaamatan or Pesta Kaamatan is a form of harvest festival celebrated annually in the state of Sabah in Malaysia. It is normally celebrated by the ethnic Kadazan-Dusuns, as well as by other related ethnic groups in the state, and lasts for the whole of the month of May, ending with a public holiday on a date selected by a priestess known as the bobohizan. A beauty pageant known as Unduk Ngadau will be held and it ends the harvest festival with a newly crowned Unduk Ngadau in the annual host district, Penampang. The Harvest Festival comes under the ambit of what is known as Momolianism, the belief system and life philosophy of the Kadazan-Dusun.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3825883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3825883", "title": "Lincoln's Birthday Committee for Democracy and Intellectual Freedom", "text": "Lincoln's Birthday Committee for Democracy and Intellectual Freedom\n\nThe Lincoln's Birthday Committee for Democracy and Intellectual Freedom (LBCDIF) was an antifascist organization of scientists founded by Franz Boas in 1938 to discredit the theories of race being forwarded by the Nazis in Germany. \n\nIn the 1930s Franz Boas was one of the first scientists to become aware of the immense prestige and influence of scientists in that era. Even at his advanced age Boas wanted to find a way to use the influence of scientists to promote human welfare. At Columbia University he collaborated with Ruth Benedict, Leslie Dunn, Robert Lynd, Walter Rautenstrauch, Harold Urey and other members of the University Federation for Democracy and Intellectual Freedom to find a unifying political position that would bring scientists of all disciplines together on a common front. He decided antifascism was such a position, and based on his collaborations wrote the Manifesto on Freedom in Science. In 1938 the Manifesto was released with 1,284 signatures of prominent scientists, including Roger Adams, Robert Oppenheimer and Albert Einstein (see: Einstein Letter to LBCDIF). Boas used the excitement generated by the Manifesto to launch the LBCDIF. Twenty-six meetings were organized to uphold the principles of the Manifesto, and the success of these meetings encouraged the organizers to expand the Birthday Committee to an ongoing group called the American Committee for Democracy and Intellectual Freedom (ACDIF).\n\n"}
{"id": "10613038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10613038", "title": "Midwest Music Summit", "text": "Midwest Music Summit\n\nMidwest Music Summit is an annual music festival held in Indianapolis, Indiana which showcases musicians from the Midwest. The festival also includes music business seminars, covering topics such as A&R, promotion, artist development and copyright issues. The festival was created in 2001 by Indianapolis natives Josh Baker, Kevin Ahern, and Jason Beatty.\n\nIn its first year, the festival featured 100 bands.\n\n2005 marked a unique year for Midwest Music Summit, as it took over Indianapolis along with NAMM summer session. The festival took place July 22–24 and featured over 250 bands. The festival was attended by over 16,000 people.\n\nThe festival took place August 10–12 and featured 342 bands on 20 stages. Unlike 2005, the festival only took place in Broad Ripple venues, with no events downtown. The lineup was diverse, with rock, hip-hop, country, and indie rock bands performing. It also featured more nationally recognized acts than in previous years.\n\n2006 Lineup Highlights:\n\nAccording to a statement posted on the Internet on April 12, 2007, Midwest Music Summit will not take place in 2007, but will return in 2008.\n\nThe Summit will take place August 7–9, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "35847398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35847398", "title": "Mordovian national costume", "text": "Mordovian national costume\n\nThe Mordovian National Costume appeared in ancient times in peasant environment, and during that time it was endowed with characteristic features, such as particular cut, special cloth, ornaments and special decoration.\nThe folk Mordovian costume, especially female, is very colorful. It is subdivided into Erzya and Moksha types. Most fabrics for making clothes were homemade. Erzya and Moksha folk costumes had reached their complete artistic expressiveness by the middle of the 19th century\nThe people, who worked on the land, could make fabrics themselves. They produced linen or stout canvas for hempen shirts, woolen cloth for warm clothes, brightly colored wool embroidery threads. They were painted using vegetable colorings. The most interesting is the women's clothing. It contains a lot of traditional features. Hand Embroidery Patterns has national symbols of ancient pagan beliefs.\n\nMoksha \nNational Costume is very colorful. The main part of women’s costume is a white canvas \"Panar-shirt\", which is decorated by hand embroidery. According to the cut, characteristic of embroidery, ornament, colour it is easy to identify the ethnic group a woman. The cut of Moksha “panar-shirt” differs from Erzya shirt. “Panar-shirt” is made from the bended in two linen. The sleeves are longer than those of Erzya shirt. The “Panar- shirt” has a deep low-neck. A traditional costume included like a kind of a dress put on over the blouse. There is a slit on the skirt in front. Such kind of cut in clothing was very popular among the people of the Volga region.\n\nChest decorations included several circles of necklaces. Special circular collars had a hard base which was covered with canvas and embroidered with glass beads, buttons and chains. Also there were reticular breast-collars made of red glass-beads and copper buttons. They finally matched perfectly with a huge embroidery of «panar» and «ruca». \nThe Moksha women wore plenty of decorations on their hips. These decorations were made of shells, buttons and pendants. There were also special towels «kes-kolucjat» on hips. There could be 6 towels in one set. The footwear called «karht`» was made of bast. The bast shoes were criss-cross braided, with low sides and special loops. The Moksha women wrapped their legs around with white or black pieces of material called onuchi.\n\nWomen headwear varied greatly: head towels, headscarves etc. Moksha headwear consisted of 2 or 3 parts and hair dress looked like horns. Headwear showed the age and material status. It was decorated with glass beads and lines of spangles, laces or gallons. There was a pattern on the front side which looked like ideogram. Ancient Mordovian embroidery beadwork with coins, buttons, medals and cowry shells usually decorated a festive folk dress.\n\nThe main element in the Mordvinian costume was a white canvas shirt, decorated with embroidery. \nErzya shirt is made from two cloths, which beaned in two. In the middle, at the central suture there was a seam left to slit for the collar and the slit on the hem for a step. In the side seams on the top at right angle there were sewed sleeves. Traditional chest fastener in the Erzya costume was «fibula syulgamo». It was an oval buckle made of thick wire with a movable pin which was used for chipping the collar. Rich lower part covered a deep chest slit. In the 19th century, the collar was usually fastened by two \"fibulas\", one of which had no decoration.\nComplex belt elements played a particular importance in Mordovian women`s costumes.\nCostume was loincloth- \"pulay\", which was worn over a shirt. As a sign of pubescence, girls begin to wear a pulay since 13–14 years old and then it remained the woman`s costume accessory until her death. Mordvinian woman could not appear in men society without a «pulay». Depending on the place of existence, it had a different form: square, trapeziform or as a belt with magnificent fringe.\nHoliday « pulay» was decorated with shells, chains, copper buttons, badges, colored beads and along the edge with long, black, red, green or blue wool and with tassels on each side. As a result, the weight of such a «pulaya» was up to 6 kilograms. Waist decoration «pulay» was of two types. The right side of the cloth was decorated with embroidery. Then, almost to knees there was a fringe from the wool, usually of black, but on holidays it could be of red or green wool. Wool decorated with copper chains and on each side attached tassels of beads.\nTypical thing for Erzya costume was a canvas over clothes- “rutsya”. It was the clothing accessory of married women and had options for different situations in life and ritual. Over the shirt or rutsya they wore an apron – « ikelga patsya». It was tied low on the abdomen to close the hem of her shirt. In the complex adornments, which included several tiers of necklaces, especially distinguished original round collars on a firm basis covered with a canvas embroidered with rows of beads, buttons and chains. All of them perfectly matched with massive embroidery “rutsi”.\nThe quality of clothing was defined by the type of embroidery. Spruce Erzya shirt was embroidered all along longitudinal stripes. Erzya embroidery was characterized by a beautiful carpet texture, borders and planes distinguished high relief. Although the ornament was pretty simple: rhombus, crosses and polylines. Decorating clothes women choose the best patterns – «sermat». In the old days they were the symbols of family belonging. Erzya woman naturally endowed with a sense of proportion. Intuitively, without the knowledge of designing and modeling clothes, she sewed a masterpiece. Red and black vertical stripes on a white canvas looked noble. A wide belt, «pulay» with long black strands emphasized hips and women looked slimmer. Removable adornments –were an obligatory addition to the clothes. This is a necklace with different lengths and materials, beaded collars, fibula-syulgamo, badges and bells.\n\nLike other nations, the Mordovians distinguished hats for girls and women. The girls most widespread type headdress was headband in the form of a hoop made of cardboard, covered with a cloth and decorated with embroidery, beads- pry syuks. Headband can be soft and decorated with paper flowers, bells and beads. Headdress- there were several types. They had cover the hair completely. Headdress was on a solid and square base- ‘ «pango». The basis was covered with red material and decorated with embroidery, beads and chains.\n\nTraditional Mordovians footwear were bast shoes –kart` of lime or elm bast. For Mordovian bast shoes were characterized by slanting wickerwork, trapezoidal head and low edge. \nHoliday kind footwear was leather boots with pointed toes-kemt`. They were made of cow and calfskin leather. Boots had a massive back. \nIn winter they wore gray and black, sometimes white valenki- felt boot . Legs were wrapped in 2 pairs of puttees; lower- pil`galga which wrapped around the foot. Outer- ver`ga praksta wrapped around the calves.\n\nThe main parts of a male costume was a shirt Erzi -\"рanhard\" and trousers -\"ponskt\". They were made of homespun canvas.\nIn the summer men wore clothes made of canvas, like a bathrobe. In spring and autumn they wore \"soumanou\" representing the coat of black cloth or brown color.\n\nMen's headdress were hats black and white with a few areas. In the summer to work in a field they wore a canvas hood, in winter, it was earflapped fur hat which covered with cloth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48735070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48735070", "title": "Morgan-Botti lecture", "text": "Morgan-Botti lecture\n\nThe Morgan-Botti lecture is an annual event in Wales which concentrates on innovation, technology and science. It is supported by Airbus Wales and is aimed at educating and informing as well as the promotion of Wales. It is named after Rhodri Morgan, who was the First Minister of Wales and Jean Botti, who was the Chief Technology Officer of Airbus Group. Attendees at the lecture generally include industrialists, entrepreneurs, government officials and senior academics.\nThe inaugural Lecture was given by Professor Lord Robert Winston in 2011.\n\nThe lectures are held at the National Museum Cardiff.\n\nIn 2016 the lecture was retitled the Endeavr 2016 Celebration Event and became the launch event of the Wales Festival of Innovation. \n"}
{"id": "213328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213328", "title": "Negative feedback", "text": "Negative feedback\n\nNegative feedback (or balancing feedback) occurs when some function of the output of a system, process, or mechanism is fed back in a manner that tends to reduce the fluctuations in the output, whether caused by changes in the input or by other disturbances.\n\nWhereas positive feedback tends to lead to instability via exponential growth, oscillation or chaotic behavior, negative feedback generally promotes stability. Negative feedback tends to promote a settling to equilibrium, and reduces the effects of perturbations. Negative feedback loops in which just the right amount of correction is applied with optimum timing can be very stable, accurate, and responsive.\n\nNegative feedback is widely used in mechanical and electronic engineering, and also within living organisms, and can be seen in many other fields from chemistry and economics to physical systems such as the climate. General negative feedback systems are studied in control systems engineering.\n\n\nNegative feedback as a control technique may be seen in the refinements of the water clock introduced by Ktesibios of Alexandria in the 3rd century BCE. Self-regulating mechanisms have existed since antiquity, and were used to maintain a constant level in the reservoirs of water clocks as early as 200 BCE.\nNegative feedback was implemented in the 17th Century. Cornelius Drebbel had built thermostatically-controlled incubators and ovens in the early 1600s,\nand centrifugal governors were used to regulate the distance and pressure between millstones in windmills. James Watt patented a form of governor in 1788 to control the speed of his steam engine, and James Clerk Maxwell in 1868 described \"component motions\" associated with these governors that lead to a decrease in a disturbance or the amplitude of an oscillation.\n\nThe term \"feedback\" was well established by the 1920s, in reference to a means of boosting the gain of an electronic amplifier.\nFriis and Jensen described this action as \"positive feedback\" and made passing mention of a contrasting \"negative feed-back action\" in 1924.\nHarold Stephen Black came up with the idea of using negative feedback in electronic amplifiers in 1927, submitted a patent application in 1928, and detailed its use in his paper of 1934, where he defined negative feedback as a type of coupling that \"reduced\" the gain of the amplifier, in the process greatly increasing its stability and bandwidth.\n\nKarl Küpfmüller published papers on a negative-feedback-based automatic gain control system and a feedback system stability criterion in 1928.\n\nNyquist and Bode built on Black’s work to develop a theory of amplifier stability.\n\nEarly researchers in the area of cybernetics subsequently generalized the idea of negative feedback to cover any goal-seeking or purposeful behavior.\n\nCybernetics pioneer Norbert Wiener helped to formalize the concepts of feedback control, defining feedback in general as \"the chain of the transmission and return of information\", and negative feedback as the case when:\n\nWhile the view of feedback as any \"circularity of action\" helped to keep the theory simple and consistent, Ashby pointed out that, while it may clash with definitions that require a \"materially evident\" connection, \"the exact definition of feedback is nowhere important\". Ashby pointed out the limitations of the concept of \"feedback\":\nTo reduce confusion, later authors have suggested alternative terms such as \"degenerative\", \"self-correcting\", \"balancing\", or \"discrepancy-reducing\" in place of \"negative\".\n\nIn many physical and biological systems, qualitatively different influences can oppose each other. For example, in biochemistry, one set of chemicals drives the system in a given direction, whereas another set of chemicals drives it in an opposing direction. If one or both of these opposing influences are non-linear, equilibrium point(s) result.\n\nIn biology, this process (in general, biochemical) is often referred to as homeostasis; whereas in mechanics, the more common term is equilibrium.\n\nIn engineering, mathematics and the physical, and biological sciences, common terms for the points around which the system gravitates include: attractors, stable states, eigenstates/eigenfunctions, equilibrium points, and setpoints.\n\nIn control theory, \"negative\" refers to the sign of the multiplier in mathematical models for feedback. In delta notation, −Δoutput is added to or mixed into the input. In multivariate systems, vectors help to illustrate how several influences can both partially complement and partially oppose each other.\n\nSome authors, in particular with respect to modelling business systems, use \"negative\" to refer to the reduction in difference between the desired and actual behavior of a system. In a psychology context, on the other hand, \"negative\" refers to the valence of the feedback – attractive versus aversive, or praise versus criticism.\n\nIn contrast, positive feedback is feedback in which the system responds so as to increase the magnitude of any particular perturbation, resulting in amplification of the original signal instead of stabilization. Any system in which there is positive feedback together with a gain greater than one will result in a runaway situation. Both positive and negative feedback require a feedback loop to operate.\n\nHowever, negative feedback systems can still be subject to oscillations. This is caused by the slight delays around any loop. Due to these delays the feedback signal of some frequencies can arrive one half cycle later which will have a similar effect to positive feedback and these frequencies can reinforce themselves and grow over time. This problem is often dealt with by attenuating or changing the phase of the problematic frequencies. Unless the system naturally has sufficient damping, many negative feedback systems have low pass filters or dampers fitted.\n\nThere are a large number of different examples of negative feedback and some are discussed below.\n\nOne use of feedback is to make a system (say \"T\") self-regulating to minimize the effect of a disturbance (say \"D\"). Using a negative feedback loop, a measurement of some variable (for example, a process variable, say \"E\") is subtracted from a required value (the 'set point') to estimate an operational error in system status, which is then used by a regulator (say \"R\") to reduce the gap between the measurement and the required value. The regulator modifies the input to the system \"T\" according to its interpretation of the error in the status of the system. This error may be introduced by a variety of possible disturbances or 'upsets', some slow and some rapid. The regulation in such systems can range from a simple 'on-off' control to a more complex processing of the error signal.\n\nIt may be noted that the physical form of the signals in the system may change from point to point. So, for example, a change in weather may cause a disturbance to the \"heat\" input to a house (as an example of the system \"T\") that is monitored by a thermometer as a change in \"temperature\" (as an example of an 'essential variable' \"E\"), converted by the thermostat (a 'comparator') into an \"electrical\" error in status compared to the 'set point' \"S\", and subsequently used by the regulator (containing a 'controller' that commands \"gas\" control valves and an ignitor) ultimately to change the \"heat\" provided by a furnace (an 'effector') to counter the initial weather-related disturbance in heat input to the house.\n\nError controlled regulation is typically carried out using a Proportional-Integral-Derivative Controller (PID controller). The regulator signal is derived from a weighted sum of the error signal, integral of the error signal, and derivative of the error signal. The weights of the respective components depend on the application.\n\nMathematically, the regulator signal is given by:\nwhere\n\nThe negative feedback amplifier was invented by Harold Stephen Black at Bell Laboratories in 1927, and granted a patent in 1937 (US Patent 2,102,671 \"a continuation of application Serial No. 298,155, filed August 8, 1928 ...\").\n\nThere are many advantages to feedback in amplifiers. In design, the type of feedback and amount of feedback are carefully selected to weigh and optimize these various benefits.\n\nThough negative feedback has many advantages, amplifiers with feedback can oscillate. See the article on step response. They may even exhibit instability. Harry Nyquist of Bell Laboratories proposed the Nyquist stability criterion and the Nyquist plot that identify stable feedback systems, including amplifiers and control systems.\nThe figure shows a simplified block diagram of a negative feedback amplifier.\n\nThe feedback sets the overall (closed-loop) amplifier gain at a value:\n\nwhere the approximate value assumes β\"A \" » 1. This expression shows that a gain greater than one requires β < 1. Because the approximate gain 1/β is independent of the open-loop gain \"A\", the feedback is said to 'desensitize' the closed-loop gain to variations in \"A \" (for example, due to manufacturing variations between units, or temperature effects upon components), provided only that the gain \"A\" is sufficiently large. In this context, the factor (1+β\"A\") is often called the 'desensitivity factor', and in the broader context of feedback effects that include other matters like electrical impedance and bandwidth, the 'improvement factor'.\n\nIf the disturbance \"D\" is included, the amplifier output becomes:\n\nwhich shows that the feedback reduces the effect of the disturbance by the 'improvement factor' (1+β \"A\"). The disturbance \"D\" might arise from fluctuations in the amplifier output due to noise and nonlinearity (distortion) within this amplifier, or from other noise sources such as power supplies.\n\nThe difference signal \"I\"–β\"O\" at the amplifier input is sometimes called the \"error signal\". According to the diagram, the error signal is:\n\nFrom this expression, it can be seen that a large 'improvement factor' (or a large loop gain β\"A\") tends to keep this error signal small.\n\nAlthough the diagram illustrates the principles of the negative feedback amplifier, modeling a real amplifier as a unilateral forward amplification block and a unilateral feedback block has significant limitations. For methods of analysis that do not make these idealizations, see the article Negative feedback amplifier.\n\nThe operational amplifier was originally developed as a building block for the construction of analog computers, but is now used almost universally in all kinds of applications including audio equipment and control systems.\n\nOperational amplifier circuits typically employ negative feedback to get a predictable transfer function. Since the open-loop gain of an op-amp is extremely large, a small differential input signal would drive the output of the amplifier to one rail or the other in the absence of negative feedback. A simple example of the use of feedback is the op-amp voltage amplifier shown in the figure.\n\nThe idealized model of an operational amplifier assumes that the gain is infinite, the input impedance is infinite, output resistance is zero, and input offset currents and voltages are zero. Such an ideal amplifier draws no current from the resistor divider. \nIgnoring dynamics (transient effects and propagation delay), the infinite gain of the ideal op-amp means this feedback circuit drives the voltage difference between the two op-amp inputs to zero. Consequently, the voltage gain of the circuit in the diagram, assuming an ideal op amp, is the reciprocal of feedback voltage division ratio β:\n\nA real op-amp has a high but finite gain \"A\" at low frequencies, decreasing gradually at higher frequencies. In addition, it exhibits a finite input impedance and a non-zero output impedance. Although practical op-amps are not ideal, the model of an ideal op-amp often suffices to understand circuit operation at low enough frequencies. \nAs discussed in the previous section, the feedback circuit stabilizes the closed-loop gain and desensitizes the output to fluctuations generated inside the amplifier itself.\n\nAn example of the use of negative feedback control is the ballcock control of water level (see diagram). In modern engineering, negative feedback loops are found in fuel injection systems and carburettors. Similar control mechanisms are used in heating and cooling systems, such as those involving air conditioners, refrigerators, or freezers.\n\nSome biological systems exhibit negative feedback such as the baroreflex in blood pressure regulation and erythropoiesis. Many biological process (e.g., in the human anatomy) use negative feedback. Examples of this are numerous, from the regulating of body temperature, to the regulating of blood glucose levels. The disruption of feedback loops can lead to undesirable results: in the case of blood glucose levels, if negative feedback fails, the glucose levels in the blood may begin to rise dramatically, thus resulting in diabetes.\n\nFor hormone secretion regulated by the negative feedback loop: when gland X releases hormone X, this stimulates target cells to release hormone Y. When there is an excess of hormone Y, gland X \"senses\" this and inhibits its release of hormone X. As shown in the figure, most endocrine hormones are controlled by a physiologic negative feedback inhibition loop, such as the glucocorticoids secreted by the adrenal cortex. The hypothalamus secretes corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH), which directs the anterior pituitary gland to secrete adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH). In turn, ACTH directs the adrenal cortex to secrete glucocorticoids, such as cortisol. Glucocorticoids not only perform their respective functions throughout the body but also negatively affect the release of further stimulating secretions of both the hypothalamus and the pituitary gland, effectively reducing the output of glucocorticoids once a sufficient amount has been released.\n\nSelf-organization is the capability of certain systems \"of organizing their own behavior or structure\". There are many possible factors contributing to this capacity, and most often positive feedback is identified as a possible contributor. However, negative feedback also can play a role.\n\nIn economics, automatic stabilisers are government programs that are intended to work as negative feedback to dampen fluctuations in real GDP.\n\nMainstream economics asserts that the market pricing mechanism operates to match supply and demand, because mismatches between them feed back into the decision-making of suppliers and demanders of goods, altering prices and thereby reducing any discrepancy. However Norbert Wiener wrote in 1948:\n\nThe notion of economic equilibrium being maintained in this fashion by market forces has also been questioned by numerous heterodox economists such as financier George Soros and leading ecological economist and steady-state theorist Herman Daly, who was with the World Bank in 1988-1994.\n"}
{"id": "41873246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41873246", "title": "Online video presentations", "text": "Online video presentations\n\nPresentation programs for preparing and delivering online video presentations have a place in educational instruction. They enable presentation of teaching materials in the form of a slide show. Among such packages Microsoft PowerPoint is the most widely used in instructional contexts. The live instructor retains a vital role in delivering the presentation.\n\nMS PowerPoint has become the dominant presentation tool because it is both readily available and easy for instructors to use (Grabe & Grabe 2007). It allows instructors to create and manipulate presentations in a wide variety of contexts that can enhance student’s interest and engagement (Mills & Roblyer, 2006). In addition, it helps instructors clearly identify the main points of a topic or activity while still providing the details through presentation (Loisel & Galer, 2004). Instructors can incorporate multiple types of media formats (e.g., diagram, photo, drawing, sound and video) that cannot be easily integrated together into one single medium. PowerPoint also provides graphical, transactional, aesthetic and interactive features. PowerPoint is for use in the classroom, and needs to be paired with use of an LCD projector and large screen.\n\nIn order to be successful, an instructor needs to guide the audience through the presentation, keep their interest, and attract their attention (Chiasson & Gutwin, 2005).\n\n"}
{"id": "18341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18341", "title": "Outline of linguistics", "text": "Outline of linguistics\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to linguistics:\n\nLinguistics is the scientific study of natural language. Someone who engages in this study is called a linguist. Linguistics can be theoretical or applied.\n\nLinguistics can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\nSub-fields of structure-focused linguistics include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHistory of linguistics\n\n\"When were the basic concepts first described and by whom?\"\n\n\n\"What basic concepts / terms do I have to know to talk about linguistics?\"\n\n\"People who had a significant influence on the development of the field\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10794197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10794197", "title": "Pchum Ben", "text": "Pchum Ben\n\nPchum Ben (; \"Ancestors' Day\") is a 15-day Cambodian religious festival, culminating in celebrations on the 15th day of the tenth month in the Khmer calendar, at the end of the Buddhist lent, Vassa. In 2013, the national holiday fell on 03, 04, 5 October in the Gregorian calendar, the 2015 season began on 23 September and ends on 12 October.\n\nThe day is a time when many Cambodians pay their respects to deceased relatives of up to 7 generations. Monks chant the suttas in Pali language overnight (continuously, without sleeping) in prelude to the gates of hell opening, an event that is presumed to occur once a year, and is linked to the cosmology of King Yama originating in the Pali Canon. During this period, the gates of hell are opened and ghosts of the dead (preta) are presumed to be especially active. In order to combat this, food-offerings are made to benefit them, some of these ghosts having the opportunity to end their period of purgation, whereas others are imagined to leave hell temporarily, to then return to endure more suffering; without much explanation, relatives who are not in hell (who are in heaven or otherwise reincarnated) are also generally imagined to benefit from the ceremonies.\n\nIn temples adhering to canonical protocol, the offering of food itself is made from the laypeople to the (living) Buddhist monks, thus generating \"merit\" that indirectly benefits the dead; however, in many temples, this is either accompanied by or superseded by food offerings that are imagined to directly transfer from the living to the dead, such as rice-balls thrown through the air, or rice thrown into an empty field. Anthropologist Satoru Kobayashi observed that these two models of merit-offering to the dead are in competition in rural Cambodia, with some temples preferring the greater canonicity of the former model, and others embracing the popular (if unorthodox) assumption that mortals can \"feed\" ghosts with physical food.\n\nPchum Ben is considered unique to Cambodia, however, there are merit-transference ceremonies that can be closely compared to it in Sri Lanka (i.e., offering food to the ghosts of the dead) and in its broad outlines, it even resembles the Taiwanese Ghost Festival (i.e., especially in its links to the notion of a calendrical opening of the gates of hell, King Yama, and so on).\n\n\n\n "}
{"id": "68282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68282", "title": "Peasant", "text": "Peasant\n\nA peasant is a pre-industrial agricultural laborer or farmer, especially one living in the Middle Ages under feudalism and paying rent, tax, fees, or services to a landlord. In Europe, peasants were divided into three classes according to their personal status: slave, serf, and free tenant. Peasants either hold title to land in fee simple, or hold land by any of several forms of land tenure, among them socage, quit-rent, leasehold, and copyhold.\n\nThe word \"peasant\" is—and long has been—often used pejoratively to refer to poor or landless farmers and agricultural workers, especially in the poorer countries of the world in which the agricultural labor force makes up a large percentage of the population. The implication of the term is that the \"peasant\" is uneducated, ignorant, and unfamiliar with the more sophisticated mannerisms of the urban population.\n\nThe word peasantry is also commonly used in a non-pejorative sense as a collective noun for the rural population in the poor and under-developed countries of the world.\n\nThe word \"peasant\" is derived from the 15th century French word \"païsant\" (compare Italian \"paesano\"), meaning one from the \"pays\", or countryside; ultimately from the Latin \"pagus\", or outlying administrative district.\n\nPeasants typically made up the majority of the agricultural labour force in a pre-industrial society. The majority of the people in the Middle Ages were peasants.\n\nThough \"peasant\" is a word of loose application, once a market economy had taken root, the term \"peasant proprietors\" was frequently used to describe the traditional rural population in countries where smallholders farmed much of the land. More generally, the word \"peasant\" is sometimes used to refer pejoratively to those considered to be \"lower class\", perhaps defined by poorer education and/or a lower income.\n\nThe open field system of agriculture dominated most of northern Europe during medieval times and endured until the nineteenth century in many areas. Under this system, peasants lived on a manor presided over by a lord or a bishop of the church. Peasants paid rent or labor services to the lord in exchange for their right to cultivate the land. Fallowed land, pastures, forests, and wasteland were held in common. The open field system required cooperation among the peasants of the manor. It was gradually replaced by individual ownership and management of land.\n\nThe relative position of peasants in Western Europe improved greatly after the Black Death had reduced the population of medieval Europe in the mid-14th century: resulting in more land for the survivors and making labor more scarce. In the wake of this disruption to the established order, later centuries saw the invention of the printing press, the development of widespread literacy and the enormous social and intellectual changes of the Enlightenment.\n\nThe evolution of ideas in an environment of relatively widespread literacy laid the groundwork for the Industrial Revolution, which enabled mechanically and chemically augmented agricultural production while simultaneously increasing the demand for factory workers in cities, who became what Karl Marx called the proletariat. The trend toward individual ownership of land, typified in England by Enclosure, displaced many peasants from the land and compelled them, often unwillingly, to become urban factory-workers, who came to occupy the socio-economic stratum formerly the preserve of the medieval peasants.\n\nThis process happened in an especially pronounced and truncated way in Eastern Europe. Lacking any catalysts for change in the 14th century, Eastern European peasants largely continued upon the original medieval path until the 18th and 19th centuries. Serfdom was abolished in Russia in 1861, and while many peasants would remain in areas where their family had farmed for generations, the changes did allow for the buying and selling of lands traditionally held by peasants, and for landless ex-peasants to move to the cities. Even before emancipation in 1861, serfdom was on the wane in Russia. The proportion of serfs within the empire had gradually decreased \"from 45-50 percent at the end of the eighteenth century, to 37.7 percent in 1858.\"\n\nIn Germany, peasants continued to center their lives in the village well into the 19th century. They belonged to a corporate body and helped to manage the community resources and to monitor community life. In the East they had the status of serfs bound permanently to parcels of land. A peasant is called a \"Bauer\" in German and \"Bur\" in Low German (pronounced in English like \"boor\").\n\nIn most of Germany, farming was handled by tenant farmers who paid rents and obligatory services to the landlord—typically a nobleman. Peasant leaders supervised the fields and ditches and grazing rights, maintained public order and morals, and supported a village court which handled minor offenses. Inside the family the patriarch made all the decisions, and tried to arrange advantageous marriages for his children. Much of the villages' communal life centered on church services and holy days. In Prussia, the peasants drew lots to choose conscripts required by the army. The noblemen handled external relationships and politics for the villages under their control, and were not typically involved in daily activities or decisions.\n\nIn his seminal book \"Peasants into Frenchmen: the Modernization of Rural France, 1880–1914\" (1976), historian Eugen Weber traced the modernization of French villages and argued that rural France went from backward and isolated to modern and possessing a sense of French nationhood during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. He emphasized the roles of railroads, republican schools, and universal military conscription. He based his findings on school records, migration patterns, military-service documents and economic trends. Weber argued that until 1900 or so a sense of French nationhood was weak in the provinces. Weber then looked at how the policies of the Third Republic created a sense of French nationality in rural areas. The book was widely praised, but some argued that a sense of Frenchness existed in the provinces before 1870.\n\nFarmers in China have been sometimes referred to as \"peasants\" in English-language sources. However, the traditional term for farmer, \"nongfu\" (农夫), simply refers to \"farmer\" or \"agricultural worker\". In the 19th century, Japanese intellectuals reinvented the Chinese terms \"fengjian\" (封建) for \"feudalism\" and \"nongmin\" (农民), or \"farming people,\" terms used in the description of feudal Japanese society. These terms created a negative image of Chinese farmers by making a class distinction where one had not previously existed. Anthropologist Myron Cohen considers these terms to be neologisms that represented a cultural and political invention. He writes:\n\nModern Western writers often continue to use the term \"peasant\" for Chinese farmers, typically without ever defining what the term means. This Western use of the term suggests that China is stagnant, \"medieval\", underdeveloped, and held back by its rural population. Cohen writes that the \"imposition of the historically burdened Western contrasts of town and country, shopkeeper and peasant, or merchant and landlord, serves only to distort the realities of the Chinese economic tradition\".\n\nA bur is presented by the Rambam (Maimonides) as a person having neither (ethical) torah education nor virtues of manners nor the ability to acquire them. Maimonides gives five definitions of Hebrew terms found in Jewish scripture, that discuss foolishness and wisdom, they are, in ascending order: bur, am ha'aretz, golem, chacham, and chasid. The definition of the Hebrew term \"bur\" is extracted by Maimonides from the phrase \"sedeh bur\", which translates as an \"uncultivated field\". The Talmud and Mishnah (Pirke Avot II:4) also have this term.\n\nCommonly, \"bur\" would be translated into English as \"boor\".\n\nSince the literate classes have left the most records, and these tended to dismiss peasants as figures of coarse appetite and rustic comedy, the term \"peasant\" may have a pejorative rather than descriptive connotation in historical memory. Society was theorized as being organized into three \"estates\": those who work, those who pray, and those who fight. The Annales School of French historians emphasized the importance of peasants. Its leader Fernand Braudel devoted the first volume—called \"The Structures of Everyday Life\"—of his major work, \"Civilization and Capitalism 15th–18th Century\" to the largely silent and invisible world that existed below the market economy.\n\nOther research in the field of peasant studies was promoted by Florian Znaniecki and Fei Xiaotong, and in the post-1945 studies of the \"great tradition\" and the \"little tradition\" in the work of Robert Redfield. In the 1960s, anthropologists and historians began to rethink the role of peasant revolt in world history and in their own disciplines. Peasant revolution was seen as a Third World response to capitalism and imperialism.\n\nThe anthropologist Eric Wolf, for instance, drew on the work of earlier scholars in the Marxist tradition such as Daniel Thorner, who saw the rural population as a key element in the transition from feudalism to capitalism. Wolf and a group of scholars criticized both Marx and the field of modernization theorists for treating peasants as lacking the ability to take action. James C. Scott's field observations in Malaysia convinced him that villagers were active participants in their local politics even though they were forced to use indirect methods. Many of these activist scholars looked back to the peasant movement in India and to the theories of the revolution in China led by Mao Zedong starting in the 1920s. The anthropologist Myron Cohen, however, asked why the rural population in China were called \"peasants\" rather than \"farmers\", a distinction he called political rather than scientific. One important outlet for their scholarly work and theory was the \"Journal of Peasant Studies\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54634496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54634496", "title": "President's Medal (British Academy)", "text": "President's Medal (British Academy)\n\nThe President's Medal is awarded annually by the British Academy to up to five individuals or organisations. It is awarded for \"outstanding service to the cause of the humanities and social sciences\". It cannot be awarded to Fellows of the British Academy and was created to reward \"academic-related activity rather than academic achievement alone\". The medals were first awarded in 2010.\n\nOn 25 November 2010, three individuals were awarded the President's Medal:\n\n\nIn 2011, three individuals were awarded the President's Medal:\n\n\nIn 2012, four individuals were awarded the President's Medal:\n\n\nIn 2013, four individuals were awarded the President's Medal:\n\n\nIn November 2014, four individuals were awarded the President's Medal:\n\n\nIn September 2015, four individuals were awarded the President's Medal:\n\nIn September 2016, four individuals were awarded the President's Medal:\n\n\nOn 27 September 2017, five individuals were awarded the President's Medal:\n\n\nOn 20 August 2018, five individuals were awarded the President's Medal:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "149373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=149373", "title": "Queer studies", "text": "Queer studies\n\nQueer studies, sexual diversity studies, or LGBT studies is the study of issues relating to sexual orientation and gender identity usually focusing on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, asexual, queer, questioning, intersex people and cultures.\n\nOriginally centered on LGBT history and literary theory, the field has expanded to include the academic study of issues raised in biology, sociology, anthropology, the history of science, philosophy, psychology, sexology, political science, ethics, and other fields by an examination of the identity, lives, history, and perception of queer people. Marianne LaFrance, the former chair of the Larry Kramer Initiative for Lesbian and Gay Studies at Yale University, says, \"Now we're asking not just 'What causes homosexuality?' [but also] 'What causes heterosexuality?' and 'Why is sexuality so central in some people's perspective?'\"\nQueer studies is not the same as queer theory, which is an analytical viewpoint within queer studies (centered on literary studies and philosophy) that challenges the putatively \"socially constructed\" categories of sexual identity.\n\nThough a new discipline, a growing number of colleges have begun offering academic programs related to sex, sexuality, and sexual orientation. There are currently over 40 certificate and degree granting programs with at least five institutions in the United States offering an undergraduate major; a growing number of similar courses are offered in countries other than the United States. \n\nProfessor Kevin Floyd has argued that the formative arguments for Marxism and those that have been the basis for queer theory should be reformulated to examine the dissociation of sexuality from gender at the beginning of the twentieth century in terms of reification, and to claim that this dissociation is one aspect of a larger dynamic of social \"reification\" enforced by capitalism.\n\nEarly academic study of queer community include lesbian researcher Mildred Berryman's 1930's groundbreaking \"The Psychological Phenomena of the Homosexual\" on 23 lesbian women and 9 gay men, whom she met through the Salt Lake City Bohemian Club. In the study most lesbian women and gay men (many of whom had Mormon background) reported experiencing erotic interest in others of the same sex since childhood, and exhibited self-identity and community identity as sexual minorities. During the 1920s gay and lesbian subcultures were beginning to become more established in several larger US cities. Lesbian and gay studies originated in the 1970s with the publication of several \"seminal works of gay history. Inspired by ethnic studies, women's studies, and similar identity-based academic fields influenced by the critical theory of the Frankfurt School, the initial emphasis was on \"uncovering the suppressed history of gay and lesbian life;\" it also made its way into literature departments, where the emphasis was on literary theory. Queer theory soon developed, challenging the \"socially constructed\" categories of sexual identity.\n\nThe first undergraduate course in the United States on LGBTQ studies was taught at the University of California, Berkeley in the spring of 1970. It was followed by similar courses in the fall of 1970 at Southern Illinois University Edwardsville and at the University of Nebraska–Lincoln (UNL). The UNL course, taught by Louis Crompton, led to the introduction in the state legislature of a bill (eventually defeated) which would have banned all discussion of homosexuality in that state's universities and colleges.\n\nAccording to Harvard University, the City University of New York began the first university program in gay and lesbian studies in 1986. The City College of San Francisco claims to be the \"First Queer Studies Department in the U.S.,\" with English instructor Dan Allen developing one of the first gay literature courses in the country in Fall 1972, and the college establishing what it calls \"the first Gay and Lesbian Studies Department in the United States\" in 1989. Then-department chair Jonathan David Katz was the first tenured faculty in queer studies in the country. Hobart and William Smith Colleges in upstate New York were among the first to offer a full-fledged major in LGBTQ Studies in the late 1990s and currently has one of the few tenure lines specifically in a stand-alone LGBT Studies program as a period when many are being absorbed into Women and Gender Studies programs.\n\nHistorians John Boswell and Martin Duberman made Yale University a notable center of lesbian and gay studies in the late 1980s and early 1990s. Each historian published several books on gay history; Boswell held three biennial conferences on the subject at the university, and Duberman sought to establish a center for lesbian and gay studies there in 1985. However, Boswell died in 1994, and in 1991 Duberman left for the City University of New York, where he founded its Center for Lesbian and Gay Studies. A 1993 alumnus gift evolved into the faculty committee-administered Fund for Lesbian and Gay Studies, which developed a listing of courses relevant to lesbian and gay studies called the \"Pink Book\" and established a small lending library named for Boswell. The committee began to oversee a series of one-year visiting professorships in 1994.\n\nIn 1997, writer and AIDS activist Larry Kramer offered his alma mater Yale $4 million (and his personal papers) to endow a permanent, tenured professorship in gay studies, and possibly build a gay and lesbian student center. His requirements were specific, as Yale was to use the money solely for \"1) the study of and/or instruction in gay male literature...\" including a tenured position, \"and/or 2) the establishment of a gay student center at Yale...\"\nWith gender, ethnic and race-related studies still relatively new, then-Yale provost Alison Richard said that gay and lesbian studies was too narrow a specialty for a program in perpetuity, indicating a wish to compromise on some of the conditions Kramer had asserted. Negotiations broke down as Kramer, frustrated by what he perceived to be \"homophobic\" resistance, condemned the university in a front-page story in \"The New York Times\". According to Kramer, he subsequently received letters from more than 100 institutions of higher learning \"begging me to consider them.\"\n\nIn 2001, Yale accepted a $1 million grant from his older brother, money manager Arthur Kramer, to establish the Larry Kramer Initiative for Lesbian and Gay Studies. The 5-year program aimed to bring in visiting faculty, host conferences and lectures, and coordinate academic endeavors in lesbian and gay studies. Jonathan David Katz assumed the role of executive coordinator in 2002; in 2003 he commented that while women's studies or African American studies have been embraced by American universities, lesbian and gay studies have not. He blamed institutionalised fear of alienating alumni of private universities, or legislators who fund public ones. The Larry Kramer Initiative ended in 2006.\n\nIn June 2009, Harvard University announced that it will establish an endowed chair in LGBT studies. Believing the post to be \"the first professorship of its kind in the country,\" Harvard President Drew G. Faust called it “an important milestone.” Funded by a $1.5 million gift from the members and supporters of the Harvard Gay & Lesbian Caucus, the F. O. Matthiessen Visiting Professorship of Gender and Sexuality is named for a mid-20th century gay Harvard American studies scholar and literary critic who chaired the undergraduate program in history and literature. Harvard Board of Overseers member Mitchell L. Adams said, “This is an extraordinary moment in Harvard’s history and in the history of this rapidly emerging field ... And because of Harvard’s leadership in academia and the world, this gift will foster continued progress toward a more inclusive society.”\n\nThe concept of perverse presentism is often taught in Queer Studies classes at universities. This is the understanding that LGBT history cannot and should not be analyzed through contemporary perspectives.\n\nAt Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (UFMG) in Brazil there are many initiatives on Queers Studies. UFMG offers a multidisciplinary program on Gender and Sexuality for undergrad students: \"Formação Transversal em Gênero e Sexualidade: Perspective Queer/LGBTI\" (https://www.ufmg.br/prograd/). In its Faculty of Law, ranked amongst the best in the country, Professor Marcelo Maciel Ramos established in 2014 \"Diverso UFMG - Legal Division of Gender and Sexual Diversity\" (www.diversoufmg.com) and a study group on Gender, Sexuality and Law, which is now leaded also by Professor Pedro Nicoli. Diverso UFMG organizes since 2016 the Congress of Gender and Sexual Diversity (Congresso de Diversidade Sexual e de Gênero: www.congressodiverso.com) that has become one of the biggest and most important academic events on Women and LGBT studies in Brazil. At the Faculty of Philosophy and Social Sciences, Professor Marco Aurélio Máximo Prado has been running since 2007 Nuh UFMG (Human Rights and LGBT Citizenship Division), a very successful initiative on LGBT studies (http://www.fafich.ufmg.br/nuh/). \n\nThe Transversal Training in Gender and Sexuality: A Queer / LGBTI Perspective\nas an objective to bring students closer to the theoretical-political-methodological contributions organized\nfrom the Queer / LGBTI experiences in the contemporary world, considering the\ntransversality of this field of studies and political practices of this emergency.\nThe \"8th International Congress for Studies on Sexual Diversity and Gender\" was hosted by the UFJF (Universidade Federal de Juiz de Fora) on June 6.\n\nFudan University, located in Shanghai, China opened the country’s first course on homosexuality and acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) prevention in 2003 entitled “Homosexual Health Social Sciences.” In an article focusing on this college course, Gao and Gu utilize feedback from participants, detailed interviews with professors, and a review of course documents to discuss China’s first course with homosexuality at its core. Their article analyzes the tactics used to create such a course and the strategies used to protect the course from adverse reactions in the press. The authors especially take note of the effects of the course on its attendees and the wider gay community in China. The authors note that “Homosexual Health Social Sciences” was described as a “breakthrough” by South China Morning Post and Friends’ Correspondence, a periodical for gay health intervention. Surveys were given to attendees of the class and many responded that the class helped them understand the homosexual perspective better. One student stated that “Even if we cannot fully understand these people, we need to respect them. That is the basis for real communication.” Many of the course attendees admitted that the course changed their lives. One Chinese police officer had been hiding his sexuality his entire life stated “The course really enhanced my quality of life…” Another man who had been prescribed treatment for his homosexuality for 30 years heard talk of the course in a newspaper and expressed “This precious news has relieved my heart.”\n\n“Homosexual Health Social Sciences” was developed to be interdisciplinary to cover the social sciences, humanities, and public health. Interdependence on different academic focuses was achieved in the curriculum by covering “Theories of homosexuality and Chinese reality”, “homosexual sub-culture” and “Men seeking men (MSM) intervention in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevention,” in addition to reading literature with gay characters and themes and taking field trips to a gay bar. The article goes on to describe the attendance of this course and its significance by clarifying that the official registration in the class was low, with only one student in 2003 and two in 2004. Officially registered students were not the only people attending the classes though because the course was open to the general public. The average attendance in 2003 was 89.9 and rose to 114 in 2004.\n\nGao and Gu also reveal the precautions taken by the creators of the course to shelter the new class from harsh criticism. The authors depict the creators’ fear of attracting too much negative attention from the Chinese media could adversely affect the course and its continuation. Most coverage on this course at Fudan University was delivered in English at the beginning. This phenomenon was explained by one journalist from China Radio International—Homosexuality is very sensitive issue in Chinese culture so by discussing it in English, it is distanced from the conservative Chinese culture. Fudan University led Chinese academia to develop more comprehensive curriculum that will educate future health care professionals on the needs of more Chinese citizens.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13764215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13764215", "title": "Regrading", "text": "Regrading\n\nRegrading is the process of grading for raising and/or lowering the levels of land. Such a project can also be referred to as a regrade. \n\nRegrading may be done on a small scale (as in preparation of a house site) or on quite a large scale (as in major reconfiguration of the terrain of a city, such as the Denny Regrade in Seattle). \n\nRegrading is typically performed to make land more level (flatter), in which case it is sometimes called levelling.) Levelling can have the consequence of making other nearby slopes steeper, and potentially unstable or prone to erosion.\n\nReasons for regrading include:\n\nPotential problems and consequences from regrading include:\n\n"}
{"id": "12782996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12782996", "title": "Romani crucifixion legend", "text": "Romani crucifixion legend\n\nThe Romani crucifixion legend is a story of how a blacksmith made the nails of the cross upon which Jesus Christ was crucified.\n\nThe condemnatory version is that as he made the nails to crucify Jesus Christ, the blacksmith and his kin were condemned to wander the earth and never settle.\n\nAnother version does not condemn blacksmiths. It says that the blacksmith was addressed by God in a dream, where he was told to make four nails, but only hand over three, as the fourth was intended to pierce the heart of Jesus. In return God gave his descendants the right to wander the earth rather than cursing them to it, and also the right to steal from non-Romanies without breaking the 7th of the Ten Commandments \"Thou shalt not steal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31932631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31932631", "title": "Sanga Yorok", "text": "Sanga Yorok\n\nSanga Yorok (hangul:산가요록, hanja:山家要錄) is a Korean cook book written in hanja in about 1459 by the royal family doctor, Jeon soon. The work also incorporates descriptions of farming. The terminology means \"records for farming villages\".\n\n\"Sanga Yorok\" precedes by 80 years the book from Kim Yoo's Suwoon Jipbang. It deals with 239 kinds of cooking methods for liquors, juk, guk, tteok, desserts and tofu-related dishes. \n\nThe writer, Jeon soon worked for medical care of royal family during Munjong and Sejo of Joseon to record another book, \"Sikryo Chanyo\", the first-ever recorded Korean book for dietary treatment.\n\nThe importance of the writing can be found from numerous methodologies of dishes of 38 kinds of kimchi and 63 traditional breweries. For shikhye, 7 kinds were written using various ingredients like fish, pork rinds, bamboo shoots, bellflower and even pheasant. \n\nThe writing work is valued for appreciating 15th century culinary culture, additionally for description of designing greenhouse.\n\n"}
{"id": "3289553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3289553", "title": "Sequential bilingualism", "text": "Sequential bilingualism\n\nSequential bilingualism occurs when a person becomes bilingual by first learning one language and then another. The process is contrasted with simultaneous bilingualism, in which both languages are learned at the same time. \n\nThere is variation in the period in which learning must take place for bilingualism to be considered simultaneous. Generally, the term \"sequential bilingualism\" applies only if the child is approximately three years old before being introduced to the second language (L2).\n\nAchieving the linguistic competence comparable to a native speaker can be achieved when the second language is learned before the critical period of acquiring a language ends. It is more difficult to achieve a native-like competence when the language is learned at a later time in life.\n\nThere are two types of bilinguals: the dominant and balanced bilinguals. Dominant bilinguals are bilinguals who are more proficient in one language as compared to the other language.\nBalanced bilinguals are people who have equal proficiency in both their first language (L1) and L2. However, balanced bilinguals are not common as people rarely use two languages in the same situation.\n\nGrammatical competence refers to knowing how to use the language correctly by forming well-formed utterances.\n\nCommunicative competence refers to knowing when saying something is appropriate or not in a culture. It also emphasizes on knowing how to interpret an intended message in an utterance when there is a meanings difference. For example, knowing that when you are asked “Can you open the door?” means that someone is requesting you to open the door and not whether you have the ability to open the door.\n\nWhen the second language is taught formally, the focus is always concentrated on gaining grammatical competence that is comparable to the native speakers.\n\nThe acquisition of a foreign language that is not commonly spoken in the community is dependent on one's motivation and determination (provided that he/she is able to attain the means and opportunity of the acquisition), since it is not a useful medium of communication in his/her society. There would also not be any major consequences as he or she will still have many opportunities to communicate with L1 still.\n\nMinority language of a region is a language spoken by the minority in a population. Such as a Chinese, bilingual child is living in the United States with the first language being Chinese and American English as the major, regional language. \n\nMinority languages have a risk of being lost depending on the following factors:\n\nSeveral studies show that immigrant children who arrive at the country early eventually switch their primary and dominant language from L1 to L2, while children who arrive later in childhood keep their L1 as their primary, strong and dominant language. Hence this is evident that the loss in the minority language is dependent on the age of acquisition of the majority language. This is because, the later the age that the child is introduced to the latter, the more the child has exposure and knowledge of use about the former language, and hence less tendency to lose his ability to use native languages, since the minority language will still be their primary and dominant language of use.\n\nEspecially in societies like the United States, where linguistics or ethnic diversity are not particularly valued, language-minority children encounter powerful forces for language shift or assimilation when they enter the majority-speaking world of the classroom in the society’s schools. Young children are extremely vulnerable to the social pressures exerted by people in their social worlds. But the social pressure they experience are not entirely external. Internal pressure too play a part. Once they turn on the television and they can see that they are different in language, in appearance and in behavior and they come to regard these differences as undesirable. At the same time, they are motivated to stop using their L1, all too often long before they have mastered the second language, all due to the internal and external pressures from their environment.\n\nFurthermore, the rank of the minority language in the family, language profile of the parents, opportunity to interact with L1 peers and the importance of the language to a person will also play a part in whether the minority language will be lost.\n\nThe term 'First Language Attrition' (FLA) refers to the gradual decline in native language proficiency among migrants. As a speaker uses their L2 frequently and becomes proficient (or even dominant) in it, some aspects of the L1 can become subject to L2 influence or deteriorate.\n\nFor children in language-minority communities, maintaining their ancestral language preserves ties to their grandparents and keeps open the option of experiences that build ethnic identification and pride, as well as cultural continuity. Parents cannot easily convey to them their values, beliefs, understandings, or wisdom, and about how to cope with their experiences. They cannot teach their children about the meaning of work, or about personal responsibility or what it means to be a moral or ethical person in a world with too many choices and too few guideposts to follow. What is lost are the bits of advice parents should be able to offer children in their everyday interactions with them. Talk is a crucial link between parents and children. It is how parents impart their culture to their children and enable them to become the kind of men and women they want them to be. When parents lose their means for socializing and influencing their children, rifts develop and families lose the intimacy that comes from shared beliefs and understandings.\n\nDuring language attrition, individuals will give up their cultural identity and take on the beliefs, attitudes, and behaviors of the majority culture. Individuals integrate when they continue to hold on their cultural identity, but also become integral members of the majority culture. When they desire to hold on to their cultural identity, there will be separation from society; the individual will withdraw from the majority culture. Languages contribute to sum of human knowledge. Inside each language, there is a vision of the past, present and future. When a language dies, so too die culture, identity and knowledge that have been transmitted from generation to generation through that language.\n\nElective bilingualism is whereby L2 is acquired through language classes, and have been immersed by choice in a social context for a prolonged period of time where the L2 language is spoken as the L1.\n\nCircumstantial bilinguals, on the other hand, are forced to relocate to a new country and must learn the new language for survival. The child learners will enter a “functional” stage of learning the language after about two years of being in a new country. This means that they will basically be fluent and able to function in all aspects of life with needed written and oral language skills. When the child has reached this stage, they will begin to avoid using their native language. However, this native language will still be present in the way they both speak and write. Adult learners will most likely not enter the functional stage until they have been in the new country for 10 years. They will also remain native language preferent.\n\nInformal L2 learning takes place in naturalistic contexts while formal L2 learning takes place in classrooms, and L2 learning that involves a mixture of these settings and circumstances. For example, when a Japanese child goes to United States, the child will informally learn English through interaction and attending class with English-speaking citizens. Whereas when a Russian student takes a course of Arabic in school, the student is undergoing formal lessons to acquire the second language.\n\nBiological factors of an individual can affect their own L2 acquisition. Underdevelopment of any of the biological systems, or damage or disruptions to the systems can and will impede the acquisition process of a language, be it L1 or L2. These systems include the cognitive, sensory, social, emotional, and neurobiological systems. These systems not only play a critical independent role on language acquisition, they also interact with each other to contribute to the person’s ability towards language learning.\n\nHere, opportunities are social factors that lead to the availability of situations for the use of the acquired L2. Increased chances to use a language greatly improve one’s ability in that language. For example, the environment must first present access to that language. Then, there must be a need for using the language as a form of communication, which will thus force and motivate the learner to consistently speak in that language. In addition, opportunities for language use should come in diverse forms, like spoken or written, and in various contexts, like in school, at home or during peer interaction, so that the child would learn how to adapt to and apply the language appropriately in different situations, using mediums, with different people.\n\nParents are crucial here because they are essentially the key provider of a child’s L2 learning opportunities. They are the ones who choose the type of L2 and enroll the child in L2 learning classes. Additionally, when the parent takes on the active role, whereby they actively and consciously monitor the child and encourage the child to learn the language, and provide chances for the use and practice of the L2 in different contexts with different people, these will generally reinforce the child’s successes too.\n\nSuccessful L2 acquisition is affected by one’s motivation to learn and use the language too. Motive refers to the purpose of learning and communicating in that specific language. The motive is determined by the interaction between environmental needs and opportunities as well as personal preferences, which is dependent on social contexts. \n\nFor learning an L2, there are two forms of motive: Integrative Motivation and Instrumental Motivation. It is assumed that language acquisition is most successful when one learns a language because one truly liked the language and culture and possessed a desire to integrate into the culture in which the language is used. This form of motivation is known as integrative motivation. Developing a certain level of proficiency in the language becomes necessary because the community which one wants to immerse oneself into uses the target language in its social interactions. Thus, in order to operate socially in the community and become one of its members, one has to be sufficiently proficient in that target language. In contrast, Instrumental motivation is the opposite. People who are instrumentally motivated to learn a language acquires that language because they want to benefit from that language, like gaining something practical or concrete. There is a practical purpose for acquiring an L2, such as meeting the requirements for school or university graduation, applying for a job, requesting higher pay based on language ability, or even achieving higher social status. Here, there is little or no desire for social integration of the learner into a community.\n\nWhile both integrative and instrumental motivation are essential elements of successful language acquisition, research have determined integrative motivation as the main element in long-term success sustenance when learning a second language.\n\nFor communication purposes, which language a bilingual chooses to speak, motive may interact with both the listener’s identity and the environmental context—one language may be preferred to communicate with a parent or child, another to complete a business transaction. The social status or prestige associated with a language could also motivate one to use that specific language. For example, United States being a political and economic powerhouse, the motivation to learn and acquire English is huge. Young immigrants in this country are spurred to learn English as fast as possible, mostly within a single generation, and many third-generation immigrants speak only English, with little or no ability in the language of their grandparents.\n\nParental and family support are important because they are the key providers to the child’s L2 learning and acquisition opportunities. They provide access to L2 learning and also to the use of the language, not only because they interact with the child the most often and therefore are the people whom the child can most often practice and use the L2 they learned, parents can also determine who the child interacts with and thus determine their opportunities for L2 use outside the family context.\n\nHowever, as there is the risk that the child would lose competence in their native language, which is especially so if the L2 is considered to be of a higher prestige than the native language and is more useful and beneficial to the speaker in more contexts than the other, parents might disapprove L2 acquisition because they see their native language as a form of identity and their heritage and do not want their child to lose it. Furthermore, if the parent holds negative attitudes towards the L2, they might transfer these negative attitudes to the child, and thus reducing the child's motivation to learn the language. \n\nAlso, low socioeconomic status is another obstacle because even if the family supports L2 learning, they might not have sufficient income to provide the adequate resources and help required for learning an L2. Parents are financially incapable of enrolling their children in language classes, neither are they able to afford textbooks, reading and practice materials for their children to learn and practice.\nAll these are possible factors acting as L2 acquisition barriers.\n\nIn addition to biological, psychological and physical deficits, like hearing loss, mental retardation, motor deficits, neurological or psychiatric disorders, impairment in auditory system, as well as inability to extract linguistic features and impairment in representational or symbolic reasoning, there are other individual factors that could act as barriers to L2 acquisition.\n\nThe learner's emotional state or affect can interfere with acquiring a new language because acquiring a new language inevitably involves practicing it in public and conversing with others. All these encompassed the possibility of making mistakes, resulting in embarrassment, and such anxiety can block the ability to receive and process new information. Thus, high self-consciousness and a reluctance to reveal their weaknesses and faults, coupled with feelings of vulnerability could greatly impede second language learning.\nFear of embarrassment has been found to occur more in adults than children because adults are more self-conscious about speaking, making errors and are more easily demoralized by pronunciation difficulties. In addition, the Critical Period Hypothesis states that younger learners have certain advantages over older learners in language learning that allows them to learn L2 easily and quickly in comparison to older children. When the critical period is over, it is nearly impossible to reach native-like proficiency in one’s second language and even those who learn a language fluently are probably recognized as having an accent. Although they can achieve expertise in a written language, they face problems in spoken language. Hence, age can also be regarded as an influential factor determining the quality of second language learning.\n\nMotivation undoubtedly has a profound impact on second language learning as well. There are two kinds of motivation, namely Integrative (intrinsic) and (instrumental) extrinsic motivation, as have been mentioned above. Intrinsically motivated students engage in the learning process because they are truly interested and enjoy the learning process; whereas extrinsically motivated learners learn in order to gain a reward or to avoid punishment. It has been shown that intrinsically motivated goals are more likely to achieve long-term success. Furthermore, self-belief has been acknowledged as able to potentially influence effort and persistence invested in acquiring a desired level of second-language competence. Self-belief comprises two components: Self-efficacy beliefs and self-concept beliefs. The former refers to one’s own belief as to whether he or she is capable of performing a given learning task and are consequently future-oriented; whereas the latter involves evaluations of one’s general self-worth based on past experiences. It is said that low self-efficacy beliefs would pose as an obstacle in language learning because it indicates a lack of self-confidence and thus reduces the motivation to learn.\n\nL1 interference in bilingual language acquisition generally refers to the influence that the learner’s L1 exerts over the acquisition of an L2. Habits have been formed during L1 acquisition will influence the L2 learning process, either facilitate or hinder L2 learning. The more similar L1 is with L2, the greater ease learners have with learning the L2 structures. In contrast, areas where L1 and L2 differ, the learners face much difficulty in learning because learners would use their L1 knowledge and experience to guide their L2 learning and responses.\n\nFor sequential bilinguals, education usually plays a far more central role than simultaneous bilinguals. Education help bilinguals develop higher level of language literacy and proficiency in terms of language structure, vocabulary, syntax, phonology, morphology, literacy and communicative purposes. Some key factors critical to a good Bilingual education program includes:\n\n1. The type of bilingual education program. \nThe type of bilingual education program should match the proficiency and goals of the learner. For example, to foster bilingualism and bi-literacy in mixed language students, two-way/ dual language programs are more effective than immersion programs, which are catered more for students whose L1 is the major language and trying to learn a L2 minority language. \n\n2. Duration of the program. \nThe longer the bilingual education programs, the more significantly effective they are because they allow for L2 learning delay that could negatively impact the acquisition of academic language proficiency in an L2.\n\n3. The ratio of L1 to L2 use at different stages of the program. \nUsually, programs start off with maximum exposure of the curriculum in L2 while progressively increasing the proportion of L1 used, but there are programs which do it the opposite way, and the method used is based on the goals of the program and the learner. However, strict separation of languages of instruction should always be maintained so that the L2 is not subsumed by the L1. \n\n4. Continuity of the program across levels within education systems. \n\n5. Bridging support. \nThis support involves materials to help overcome the initial limitations of the students’ L2 proficiency and also include extra tuition or smaller remedial classes to cater more specifically to difficulties faced by each individual. \n\n6. Sufficient and adequate resources and educational material. \n\n7. Availability of qualified and committed personnel. \nProvision of constant teacher training, and staff-development program for teachers is crucial as teachers are the people who interact with and impart the language skills to the students. Teachers have to be committed as language acquisition requires a huge amount of time and effort. Additionally, it is important to ensure that teachers are familiar and proficient with the specific educational materials developed so that these material are complementing their teachings.\n\n8. Attitude of the educators toward the culture of the target language. \nTeachers can transfer their attitudes to the students. Hence, if teachers had a negative attitude towards L2, then it might undermine the effort and restrict the success in L2 language acquisition.\n\nBilinguals tend to code-switch when talking to people who understand both their first and second language. Code-switching takes place when a bilingual uses two or more languages in a conversation and this is a natural effect of knowing more than one language. Codeswitching can take place due to a lack of sufficient vocabulary in one of the languages to express an idea (not to be confused with a lack of sufficient vocabulary knowledge from the speaker) and so the speaker expresses the idea using another language. However, codeswitching can also be done to convey special emphasis or establish cultural identity.\n\nVarious studies have found that for bilinguals, the emotional intensity of L1 is different from the emotional intensity of subsequent languages learned. These studies concluded that L1 has the highest emotional impact and is the language of personal involvement while L2 is the language that can create distance and detachment as it has lesser emotional impact as compared to L1. \n\nYet, paradoxically, many late bilinguals indicate that it is harder for them to swear in their L1 as compared to their L2. As such they would prefer to use their L2 to swear despite it having lesser emotional impact on the speakers themselves. This could be due to the fact that they are unable to feel the total strength of their spoken words when swearing in their L2 and as such, they would swear in their L2 more easily.\n\n"}
{"id": "398255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=398255", "title": "Sportsmanship", "text": "Sportsmanship\n\nSportsmanship is an aspiration or ethos that a sport or activity will be enjoyed for its own sake, with proper consideration for fairness, ethics, respect, and a sense of fellowship with one's competitors. A \"sore loser\" refers to one who does not take defeat well, whereas a \"good sport\" means being a \"good winner\" as well as being a \"good loser\" (someone who shows courtesy towards another in a sports game).\n\nSportsmanship can be conceptualized as an enduring and relatively stable characteristic or disposition such that individuals differ in the way they are generally expected to behave in sports situations. In general, sportsmanship refers to virtues such as fairness, self-control, courage, and persistence, and has been associated with interpersonal concepts of treating others and being treated fairly, maintaining self-control if dealing with others, and respect for both authority and opponents. Sportsmanship is also looked at as being the way one \nreacts to a sport/game/player.\n\nThe four elements of sportsmanship are often shown being good form, the will to win, equity and fairness. All four elements are critical and a balance must be found among all four for true sportsmanship to be illustrated. These elements may also cause conflict, as a person may desire to win more than play in equity and fairness and thus resulting in a clash within the aspects of sportsmanship. This will cause problems as the person believes they are being a good sportsman, but they are defeating the purpose of this idea as they are ignoring two key components of being sportsman like. When athletes become too self-centred, the idea of sportsmanship is dismissed.\n\nToday's sporting culture, in particular the base of elite sport, places great importance on the idea of competition and winning and thus sportsmanship takes a back seat as a result. In most, if not all sports, sportsmen at the elite level make the standards on sportsmanship and no matter whether they like it or not, they are seen as leaders and role models in society.\n\nSince every sport is rule driven, the most common offence of bad sportsmanship is the act of cheating or breaking the rules to gain an unfair advantage this is called unsportsmanlike conduct. A competitor who exhibits poor sportsmanship after losing a game or contest is often called a \"sore loser\", while a competitor who exhibits poor sportsmanship after winning is typically called a \"bad winner\". Sore loser behavior includes blaming others for the loss, not accepting responsibility for personal actions that contributed to the defeat, reacting to the loss in an immature or improper fashion, making excuses for the defeat, and citing unfavorable conditions or other petty issues as reasons for the defeat. A bad winner acts in a shallow fashion after his or her victory, such as by gloating about his or her win, rubbing the win in the face(s) of the opponent(s), and lowering the opponent(s)'s self-esteem by constantly reminding the opponent(s) of \"poor\" performance in comparison (even if the opponent(s) competed well). Not showing respect to the other team is considered to being a bad sportsman and could lead to demoralising effects; as Leslie Howe describes: \"If a pitcher in baseball decides to pitch not to his maximum ability suggest that the batter is not at an adequate level, [it] could lead to the batter to have low self-confidence or worth.\"\n\nThere are six different categories relating to sportsmanship: the elements of sports, the elements of sportsmanship, clarifications, conflicts, balance and irreducibility. All six of these characterize a person with good sportsmanship. Even though there is some affinity between some of the categories, they are distinct elements. \"In essence, play has for its directed and immediate end joy, pleasure, and delights and which is dominated by a spirit of moderation and generosity. Athletics, on the other hand, is essentially a competitive activity, which has for its end victory in the contest and which is characterized of dedication, sacrifice and intensity.\" (Feelezz, 1896, pp. 3) Hence, the virtues of a player are radically different from the virtues of an athlete. (Feelezz, 1896, pp. 3). When talking about misunderstanding sportsmanship, Rudd and Stoll (2013) provide an example from 1995, a U.S. high school athletic league banned the post-game handshake that was a part of sports such as football and basketball. The handshaking was banned because of fights that were ensuing after the handshake.(pp. 41) Most players are influenced by the leaders around them such as coaches and older players, \"if there are coaches and administrators who don't understand sportsmanship, then what about the players?\"\n\nThere are various ways that sportsmanship is practiced in different sports. Being a good sport often includes treating others as you would also like to be treated, cheer for good plays (even if it is made by the opposition), accept responsibility for your mistakes, and keep your perspective. An example of treating others how you would like to be treated would include being respectful and polite to other team members and the opposition because in return you would also like to be treated the same way. Cheer for good plays could include if in netball a player of the opposition made a good lead for the ball, which then resulted in a goal, everyone would either clap or make a supportive comment to acknowledge that what the player did was very well done. To accept responsibility for your mistakes will entail not placing the blame on other people.\n\nSome popular examples of good sportsmanship include shaking hands, help an opponent who may have fallen over, encourage everyone, cheer, clap or hi-five, and be respectful to everyone including teammates, the opposition, parents and officials. Most importantly it is often encouraged and said regarding sportsmanship that \"It's not whether you win or lose, it's how you play the game.\"\n\nSportsmanship can be manifested in different ways depending on the game itself or the culture of the group.\n\nSportsmanship can be affected by a few contributing factors such as the players' values and attitudes towards the sport and also the professional role models that are shown to the public. Role models in sport are expected to act in a moral and respectful way. When elite sporting role models do not encourage sportsmanship this can also encourage people in society to act in similar ways to the athletes that they look up to and idolize. For example, if an individual looked up to an athlete who was drinking excessively, they may see this as acceptable behavior. The direct correlation between sportsmanship and leadership is also considered to be another contributing factor. Having a positive environment in your sporting team will therefore create good sportsmanship from the individuals. Having a positive leadership by the captains, coaches and supporters would then encourage a positive sporting environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1010031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1010031", "title": "Te Whanganui-a-Tara", "text": "Te Whanganui-a-Tara\n\nTe Whanganui-a-Tara is the Māori name for Wellington Harbour. The term is also sometimes used to refer to the city of Wellington, the capital city of New Zealand, which lies on the shores of the harbour. \"Te Whanganui-a-Tara\" translates as \"the great harbour of Tara\", which refers to the rangatira Tara, who Māori tradition says visited the area in the 12th century and decided to stay.\n\nIn Māori tradition, Te Whanganui-a-Tara is said to have been discovered by Kupe, who visited in the 10th century. A number of place names in the area commemorate Kupe, such as Te Tangihanga o Kupe or Te Raranga o Kupe (Barrett Reef), and Te Aroaro o Kupe or Te Ure o Kupe (Steeple Rock). Kupe also named two islands in the harbour, Mākaro (Ward Island) and Matiu (Somes Island). However, it is the rangatira Tara who is remembered, both in the name of the city and the name of the first iwi (tribe) to settle there permanently, Ngāi Tara.\n\nAnother name for the region is \"Te Upoko o te Ika a Māui\" which means \"the head of Māui’s fish\". According to Māori legend, a giant fish was hooked and pulled to the surface by Polynesian navigator Māui and the fish turned into land which became the North Island. The older name is still used in some circumstances for the city or the region, such as in the official Māori name of Victoria University of Wellington, which is Te Whare Wānanga o te Ūpoko o te Ika a Māui.\n\nAnother Māori name for Wellington is \"Pōneke\", a phonetic Māori transliteration of \"Port Nick\", short for \"Port Nicholson\".\n\nAccording to legend, the harbour of Te Whanganui-a-Tara was created by two taniwha (nature guardian spirits), Whātaitai (or Hataitai) and Ngake. Whataitai lived in the north of the lake where the harbour now is, and was gentle. Ngake, who lived further south, was more violent.\n\nNgake could hear the waters of Raukawa Moana (Cook Strait) pounding to the south, and decided to escape the lake to get to it. He went to the north of the lake to build up his speed for the attempt, then headed off rapidly towards the south.\n\nNgake crashed into and through the rocks at Seatoun and headed out into the Strait. This was seen by Whataitai, who tried to follow Ngake out of the new entrance. The water was now running out of the lake, however, and Whataitai became stranded in the shallows. He stayed there for many generations before being lifted high onto the land by a great earthquake.\n\nThe soul of Whataitai left him in the form of a bird, Te Keo. It flew high above the harbour and wept for the taniwha, whose body was lifted high onto the hills close to the harbour entrance.\n\nTo this day, Mount Victoria is known to Māori as \"Tangi Te Keo\", \"The weeping of Te Keo\", and the suburb on the hills immediately below it is named Hataitai.\n\nTe Whanganui-a-Tara and its environs have been occupied for centuries by various Māori groups. At about 1820, the people living there were Ngāti Ira and other groups who traced their descent from the explorer Whātonga, including Rangitāne and Muaūpoko. However, these groups were eventually forced out of Te Whanganui-a-Tara by a series of migrations other iwi from the north. The migrating groups were Ngāti Toa, which came from Kāwhia, Ngāti Rangatahi, from near Taumarunui, and Te Atiawa, Ngāti Tama, Ngāti Mutunga, Taranaki and Ngāti Ruanui from Taranaki. Ngāti Mutunga later moved on to the Chatham Islands. The Waitangi Tribunal has found that at the time of the signing of the Treaty of Waitangi in 1840, Te Atiawa, Taranaki, Ngati Ruanui, Ngati Tama, and Ngati Toa held mana whenua interests in Te Whanganui-a-Tara, through conquest and occupation.\n\nSteps towards Pākehā settlement in Te Whanganui-a-Tara began in 1839, when Colonel William Wakefield arrived to purchase land for the New Zealand Company to sell to British settlers. Prior to this time, the inhabitants of Te Whanganui-a-Tara had only had contact with Pākehā whalers and traders. \n\n"}
{"id": "10819244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10819244", "title": "The Princess Diaries, Volume V: Princess in Pink", "text": "The Princess Diaries, Volume V: Princess in Pink\n\nThe Princess Diaries Volume V: Princess in Pink, released in the United Kingdom as The Princess Diaries: Give Me Five, is a young adult book in the \"Princess Diaries\" series. Written by Meg Cabot, it was released in 2004 by Harper Collins Publishers and is the fifth book in the series.\n\nMia Thermopolis' boyfriend won't take her to the prom and her 15th birthday is coming up. Her friends try to convince her that he'll ask her on her birthday and she believes that fantasy.\n\nOn the day of her birthday, Michael and his band sing a song for her and turn up their amps so that everyone in the school can hear. He earns detention and makes it in time for Mia's birthday dinner. She receives gifts from her family and Michael that she wouldn't expect, along with the fact that Michael got her a snowflake necklace which symbolises when they fell in love at the winter dance. At the dinner, disaster strikes. Grandmere's poodle jumps out of her purse and runs around the restaurant causing a busboy to spill a meal on Grandmere's suit and getting the busboy (whose name is Jangbu) fired.\n\nThen comes the birthday party. Mia and her friends play a game of Seven Minutes in Heaven when her parents are out getting more birthday supplies. In the game she asks Michael to prom but he declines, saying he'd rather go bowling. When it's Lilly's turn, she enters the closet with the handsome Jangbu (whom she met while protesting for him), and apparently reaches second base too, instead of taking her boyfriend Boris into the closet with her, making Boris break down before Mia's parents arrive and catch them, sending all the guests home.\n\nAt school, Boris tells Lilly that he loves her so much, he'll drop a globe on his head if she doesn't take him back, and on her refusal he accidentally does so, injuring his skull, luckily Mia and Michael stop him from severely bleeding. After school, Tina meets up with Boris to comfort him and they become a couple.\n\nLater on, all the busboys in town go on strike after the incident at the restaurant. This ruins the venue for the senior prom, but Grandmere steps in and gives them a place: The Empire State Building. Mia blackmails Lana into letting Michael's band play at the prom. Michael and his band play at the prom and Michael and Mia reach second base. During the prom Mia's mother also gives birth to Rocky Thermopolis-Gianini.\n\nJangbu the busboy returns to his home country and leaves Lilly thinking about her decisions in leaving Boris who is now in love with Tina.\n"}
{"id": "18430085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18430085", "title": "The Rookie (web series)", "text": "The Rookie (web series)\n\nThe Rookie, formerly known as The Rookie: CTU in its first two seasons, is an exclusive series of webisodes made in 2007 and 2008, released over the internet, following the life of Jason Blaine, a new CTU agent. The series is a spin-off from the TV series \"24\".\n\nThe series is made close to the style of \"24\", in that it uses many of the same devices. For example, at the beginning of each \"Day\" there is a voiceover of Jason Blaine telling the viewer what time the series takes place between. Also, at the beginning of each episode, there is a \"Previously on \"The Rookie\"\" section, again with a voice over by Jason Blaine. The splitscreen is incorporated into the episodes often (at least once) to show phone conversations as well as to wrap up each episode. However, it does not take place in real time.\n\n\"Coffee Run\" is the first season of \"The Rookie\". It premiered on January 15, 2007, the day after 24: Season 6 premiered on Fox in the United States. It introduced Jason Blaine, a new rookie agent working at CTU Los Angeles, striving to get in some field work. There were three episodes made, each being released weekly.\n\nIn the series, Jason was sent to collect coffee for members of CTU whilst a briefing was being held. Whilst at the coffee shop he noticed some robbers entering a bank and decided to intervene. Going in a back entrance, he took the gun of a disarmed security guard and shot several of the robbers. At the same time, a co-worker from CTU called a SWAT team who entered the bank and dealt with the rest of the robbers. Jason arrived back at CTU with the now-cold coffees, much to his boss, Alton Maxwell's, displeasure.\n\n\"Mistaken Identity\", sometimes known as \"Get This to ...\", is the second season of \"The Rookie\". It premiered on March 26, 2007, the day after 24: Day 6 8:00pm–9:00pm premiered on FOX in the United States. It followed the further tribulations of Jason Blaine. There were three episodes made, each being released weekly.\n\nJason Blaine, yearning for more field experience, agreed to take a PDA out in the deserts of Los Angeles to his boss and Deputy Director of CTU Los Angeles Alton Maxwell. Whilst traveling, he received a call intended for his boss, informing him of a terrorist threat against a Russian Ambassador who Maxwell was planning to meet. Jason managed to stop the terrorists before they could attack the Ambassador, and once again to Maxwell's displeasure, Jason arrived late.\n\n\"Extraction\" is the third season of \"The Rookie\". It premiered on March 17, 2008, just under a year from when the last season premiered. It concluded on April 21, 2008. Six episodes were made, double the amount of the last two seasons. A new episode was released weekly.\n\n\"Extraction\" followed the further adventures of Jason Blaine, now a more advanced field agent working for the FBI after the closure of CTU. His boss, Alton Maxwell was captured, and Jason strived to save him from the evil hands of drug kingpin Esteban Salazar, brother to the villains of the third season of \"24\".\n\n"}
{"id": "427310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427310", "title": "The Voyage of the Dawn Treader", "text": "The Voyage of the Dawn Treader\n\nThe Voyage of the Dawn Treader is a high fantasy novel for children by C. S. Lewis, published by Geoffrey Bles in 1952. It was the third published of seven novels in \"The Chronicles of Narnia\" (1950–1956) and Lewis had finished writing it in 1950, before the first book was out. It is volume five in recent editions, which are sequenced according to Narnia history. Like the others it was illustrated by Pauline Baynes and her work has been retained in many later editions. It is the only Narnia book that does not have a main villain.\n\nLewis dedicated the book to Geoffrey Corbett. He is the foster-son of Owen Barfield, the friend, teacher, adviser and trustee of Lewis.\n\n\"The Voyage\" features a return to the Narnia world after the events of \"Prince Caspian\", about three years later in Narnia and one year later in England, by Edmund and Lucy Pevensie, the younger two of the four English children featured in the first two books. Prince Caspian is now King Caspian X. He leads a sea voyage to the eastern end of the world, which the English siblings and their cousin Eustace Scrubb magically join soon after his ship \"Dawn Treader\" sets sail.\n\nMacmillan US published an American edition within the calendar year with substantial revisions that were retained in the US until 1994.\n\n\"The Voyage of the Dawn Treader\" has been adapted and filmed as four episodes of BBC television series in 1989 and as a feature film in 2010.\n\nThe two youngest Pevensie children, Lucy and Edmund, are staying with their odious cousin Eustace Scrubb while their older brother, Peter, is studying for an exam with Professor Kirke, and their older sister, Susan, is travelling through America with their parents. Edmund, Lucy, and Eustace are drawn into the Narnian world through a picture of a ship at sea. (The painting, hanging neglected in the guest bedroom in which Lucy was staying, had been an unwanted present to Eustace's parents.) The three children land in the ocean near the pictured vessel, the titular \"Dawn Treader\", and are taken aboard.\n\nThe \"Dawn Treader\" is the ship of Caspian X, King of Narnia, who was the key character in the previous book (\"Prince Caspian\"). Edmund and Lucy (along with Peter and Susan) helped him gain the throne from his evil uncle Miraz. Also present on board are the Lord Drinian (the captain of the \"Dawn Treader\") and the first mate Rhince.\n\nThree years have passed since then, peace has been established in Narnia, and Caspian has undertaken a quest in fulfilment of his coronation oath to find the seven lost Lords of Narnia: Argoz, Bern, Mavramorn, Octesian, Restimar, Revilian, and Rhoop. Lucy and Edmund are delighted to be back in the Narnian world, but Eustace is less enthusiastic, as he has never been there before and had taunted his cousins with his belief that this alternate universe had never existed. The Talking Mouse Reepicheep is also on board, as he hopes to find Aslan's Country beyond the seas of the \"utter East\". When Eustace teases Reepicheep, much is revealed about the mouse's pugnacious character.\n\nThey first make landfall in the Lone Islands, nominally Narnian territory but fallen away from Narnian ways: in particular the slave trade flourishes here, despite Narnian law stating that it is forbidden. Caspian, Lucy, Edmund, Eustace and Reepicheep are captured as merchandise by a slave trader, and a man \"buys\" Caspian before they even reach the slave market. He turns out to be the first lost lord, Lord Bern, who moved to the islands and married a woman there after being banished from Narnia by Miraz. When Caspian reveals his identity, Bern acknowledges him as King. Caspian reclaims the islands for Narnia, and replaces Gumpas, the greedy governor, with Lord Bern, whom he names Duke of the Lone Islands.\n\nAt the second island they visit, Eustace leaves the group to avoid participating in the work needed to render the ship seaworthy after a storm has damaged it, and hides in a dead dragon's cave to escape a sudden downpour. The dragon's treasure arouses his greed: he fills his pockets with gold and jewels and puts on a large golden bracelet; but as he sleeps, he is transformed into a dragon. As a dragon, he becomes aware of how bad his previous behaviour was. He attempts to shed his dragon skin without success. It is only with the help of Aslan that he is able to become human again, though the process is very painful. Caspian recognises the bracelet: it belonged to Lord Octesian, another of the lost lords. They speculate that the dragon killed Octesian — or even that the dragon \"was\" Octesian. Aslan turns Eustace back into a boy, and as a result of his experiences he is now a much nicer person.\n\nThey narrowly escape being sunk by a sea-serpent and stop at Deathwater Island, so named for a pool of water which turns everything immersed in it into gold, including one of the missing lords who turns out to have been Lord Restimar. Then they land on the Duffers' Island, where Lucy removes an invisibility spell from the Duffers (later Dufflepuds) at their request and befriends the Magician who cast it. At the Island Where Dreams Come True – called the Dark Island since it is permanently hidden in darkness – they rescue a desperate Lord Rhoop. Eventually they reach the Island of the Star, where they find the three remaining lost lords in enchanted sleep. Ramandu, the fallen star who lives on the island, tells them that the only way to awaken them is to sail to the edge of the world and there to leave one member of the crew behind.\n\nThe \"Dawn Treader\" continues sailing into an area where merpeople dwell and the water turns sweet rather than salty, as Reepicheep discovers when he belligerently jumps in to fight a mer-man who he thinks challenged him. At last the water becomes so shallow that the ship can go no farther. Caspian orders a boat lowered and announces that he will go to the world's end with Reepicheep. The crew object, saying that as King of Narnia he has no right to abandon them. Caspian goes to his cabin in a temper, but returns to say that Aslan appeared in his cabin and told him that only Lucy, Edmund, Eustace, and Reepicheep will go on.\n\nThese four named venture in a small boat through a sea of lilies until they reach a wall of water that extends into the sky. Fulfilling Ramandu's condition, Reepicheep paddles his coracle up the waterfall and is never again seen in Narnia. Edmund, Eustace, and Lucy find a Lamb, who transforms into Aslan and tells them that Edmund and Lucy will not return to Narnia and that they should learn to know him by another name in their own world. He then sends the children home.\n\nIn their own world, everyone remarks on how Eustace has changed and \"you'd never know him for the same boy\" – although his mother believes that Edmund and Lucy have been a bad influence on him in the way that they have made him \"commonplace and tiresome\".\n\n\nSeveral weeks or months after reading the proofs for the British edition of \"The Chronicles\", Lewis read through the proofs for the American edition. While doing so, he made several changes to the text. When HarperCollins took over publication of the series in 1994 they made the unusual decision to ignore the changes that Lewis had made and use the earlier text as the standard for their editions.\n\nIn \"Dawn Treader\", Lewis made two changes; one minor and one of more substance. The minor change appears in the first chapter where Lewis changes the description of Eustace from \"far too stupid to make anything up himself\" to \"quite incapable of making anything up himself\". Paul Ford, author of \"Companion to Narnia\", suggests that Lewis might have felt the need to soften the passage for his American readers or perhaps he was starting to like Eustace better. Peter Schakel, author of \"Imagination and the arts in C.S. Lewis\", notes that the passage should have been changed in both cases as \"calling a character 'stupid' in a children's book is insensitive and unwise\". Both Schakel and Ford agree that it is not an accurate depiction of Eustace as Lewis describes him, and this too may be the reason for the change.\n\nThe more substantive change appears in Chapter 12, \"The Dark Island\", where Lewis rewrote the ending in a way that, Schakel maintains, improves the imaginative experience considerably.\nA side by side comparison of the ending of chapter 12 follows:\n\nBoucher and McComas found \"Voyage\" \"not quite up to the high level set by previous Narnian adventures\". They singled out Reepicheep for praise as \"one of Lewis's finest imaginings.\"\n\nResearcher Sue Baines wrote: \"In contrast to other Narnia books, \"Dawn Treader\" has virtually no overt villains, other than the slavers in the very beginning who are quickly overcome and disposed of. Rather, the plot confronts the protagonists again and again with the flaws of their own character. Eustace's greediness and general bad behavior cause him to turn into a dragon, and he must work hard to show himself worthy of becoming human again; Caspian is tempted to seize the magic pool which turns everything to gold – which would have turned Caspian himself into a greedy tyrant ready to kill in order to preserve his power and wealth; later, Caspian faces the nobler but still wrong-headed temptation to go off to Aslan's Country and abandon his responsibilities as a King; Lucy is tempted to make herself magically beautiful, which would have led to her becoming the focus of terrible wars devastating Narnia and all its neighbors; and having resisted this temptation, she succumbs to a lesser temptation to magically spy on her schoolmates – and is punished by hearing malicious things and destroying what could have developed into an enduring nice friendship. ... Edmund, who had undergone a very severe test of his character on his first arrival in Narnia, is spared such an experience in the present book, and acts as the most mature and grown-up member of the group.\"\n\nArguably, \"Voyage of the Dawn Treader\" is the novel which shows the most influence of Lewis' Irish background. It is reminiscent of the \"Immram\" genre of Irish literature. However, unlike such voyages, \"Dawn Treader\" travels East rather than West.\n\nThe novel also underscores the idea of Aslan representing Jesus Christ. In the end of the novel Aslan appears as a lamb which has been used as a symbol for him. After transforming into a Lion, Aslan tells the Pevensie children \"'I am [in your world],' said Aslan. 'But there I have another name. You must learn to know me by that name. This was the very reason you were brought to Narnia, that by knowing me here for a little you may know me better there'\".\n\nEustace's transformation into a dragon in the presence of gold recalls the fate of Fáfnir in Norse myth. Had Eustace been educated to know about myths and fairytales, he would have known that dragons' gold is cursed.\n\n\n\n\"The Voyage of the Dawn Treader\" is the third instalment in \"The Chronicles of Narnia\" film series from Walden Media. Unlike the earlier two films, which were distributed by Disney, it was distributed by 20th Century Fox. Michael Apted took over as director from Andrew Adamson, who opted to produce with Mark Johnson, Perry Moore and Douglas Gresham. Will Poulter joined the cast as Eustace Scrubb, while Georgie Henley, Skandar Keynes, Ben Barnes, Liam Neeson, and Tilda Swinton all returned.\n\nThe film had a wide theatrical release in traditional 2D, and a limited theatrical release in RealD 3D and Digital 3D in the United States, Canada, and United Kingdom on 10 December 2010.\n\n\"The Dawntreader\" is a song about the sea by Joni Mitchell, one track on her debut album \"Song to a Seagull\" (1968).\n\n\"Voyage of the Dawn Treader\" is a song by Bobby Wynn based on \"The Chronicles of Narnia\".\n\n\"Dawn Treader\" is a song by Charlotte Hatherley on her 2007 album \"The Deep Blue\".\n\nThe spaceship \"Dawn Treader\" in Greg Bear's novel \"Anvil of Stars\" is presumably also named for the ship in this book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5447071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5447071", "title": "Themes of The Lord of the Rings", "text": "Themes of The Lord of the Rings\n\nSince the publications of J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\", \"The Hobbit\" and \"The Silmarillion\", a wealth of secondary literature has been published discussing the literary themes and archetypes present in the stories. Tolkien also wrote about the themes of his books in letters to friends, family and fans, and often within the books themselves. In his Foreword to the Second Edition of \"The Lord of the Rings\", Tolkien said that he \"disliked allegory in all its forms\" (using the word \"applicability\" instead), and told those claiming the story was a metaphor for World War II to remember that he had lost \"all but one\" of his close friends in World War I.\n\n\"No careful reader of Tolkien's fiction can fail to be aware of the polarities that give it form and fiction,\" writes Verlyn Flieger. Tolkien's extensive use of duality and parallelism, contrast and opposition is found throughout the novel, in hope and despair, knowledge and enlightenment, death and immortality, fate and free will. One famous example is the often criticized polarity between Good and Evil in Tolkien. Orcs, the most maligned of races, are a corruption of the mystically exalted race of the Elves. Minas Morgul, the Tower of Sorcery, home of the Lord of the Nazgûl, the most corrupted King of Men, directly opposes Minas Tirith, the Tower of Guard and the capital of Gondor, the last visible remnant of the ancient kingdom of Men in the Third Age. These antitheses, though pronounced and prolific, are sometimes seen to be too polarizing, but they have also been argued to be at the heart of the structure of the entire story. Tolkien's technique has been seen to \"confer literality on what would in the primary world be called metaphor and then to illustrate [in his secondary world] the process by which the literal becomes metaphoric.\" \n\nStill, while certainly revelling in antithetic themes and symbols, other readings point to Tolkien's tendency to aggrandise characters that fall outside of the more obvious, dualistic archetypes – particularly those commonly found in fantasy works. Writing in \"The Christian World of the Hobbit,\" for example, author Davin Brown cites Tolkien's belief in \"the ennoblement of the ignoble\", and goes on to link the importance of Tolkien's more unseeming characters with Jesus's words on \"the meek\" in the Sermon on the Mount. This is particularly clear in Tolkien's treatment of the rural Shire and its race of simple, complacent hobbits, who ultimately go on to defeat an evil whose more obvious counterparts were great wizards, kings, and the aforementioned kingdoms of good.\n\nLikewise, though Tolkien's magic, immortal elves seem to act as an idealized version of a comparatively lowly humankind, their inability to accept change causes a \"deep nostalgia for [an] edenic past\", which in turn becomes their \"great folly\".\n\nTolkien wrote about \"The Lord of the Rings\" and death in his \"Letters\":\n\nThroughout \"The Silmarillion\", death is referred to as the \"gift (and doom) of Man,\" given by Ilúvatar (God), while immortality is the gift given to the Elves. The Elves never die of old age and are resistant to disease, though they can be slain in battle or die by similar means; however, even when their bodies perish, their spirits travel to the Halls of Mandos in Aman, and eventually can be \"reincarnated\" into life. They are thus bound to the world, and can grow weary of it as they wane in prominence, watching the decline of their lands. In contrast, Tolkien leaves the fate of Men uncertain. This leads to some form of fear for Men, who do not understand what truly happens at death and fear it as a result. \n\nAcross all of Tolkien's works, the desire to escape death is shown to lead to evil. The people of Númenor, though blessed with life longer than that of most humans, envy the immortals, and are persuaded in \"The Silmarillion\" to engage in Sauron's cult of human sacrifice. They later attempt to conquer the hallowed, \"Undying Lands\" of Aman from the Valar, leading to their destruction. Sauron's Rings of Power also promise immortality to Men, yet in the process turns them into Ringwraiths, undying but not truly living either.\n\n\"The Lord of the Rings\" centres around the corrupting influence of the One Ring. This theme is discussed at length by Tom Shippey in chapter III of \"\". In this chapter, titled, \"The Lord of the Rings (2): Concepts of Evil\" (pp 112–160), Shippey notes that what lies at the heart of the story is the assertions made by Gandalf about the power and influence of the One Ring, and the corrupting influence it has on its bearers. Gandalf rejects the Ring after Frodo offers it to him, and this view of the nature of the Ring is reinforced as Elrond, Galadriel, Aragorn and Faramir in their turn, also reject the Ring, supposedly fearing the fact that it will ultimately create wicked desires within them. Inversely, the hobbits' complacency and lack of ambition appears to make them less susceptible to the Ring's promises of power, as is seen in Frodo and Sam, both of whom are able to handle the Ring for extended periods of time. It is of note that hobbits are not totally immune to the Ring's effects, however, as is seen most clearly in Frodo, Bilbo and, arguably, Gollum.\n\nThis is, according to Shippey, a very modern, 20th-century theme, since in earlier, medieval times, power was considered to \"reveal character\", not alter it. Shippey mentions Lord Acton's famous statement in 1887, that \"Power tends to corrupt, and absolute power corrupts absolutely. Great men are almost always bad men...\" He then goes on to point out authors that were dealing in the same themes of power and corruption at around the same time as Tolkien wrote his work. These authors include George Orwell with \"Animal Farm\" (1945), William Golding with \"Lord of the Flies\" (1954), and T. H. White with \"The Once and Future King\" (1958).\n\nShippey's critics have argued that the theme of power's ability to alter one's character is not limited to the 20th century, pointing to the use of the \"ring\" as a symbol of power in much older works such as those of Plato in the 4th century BCE. In The Republic, Glaucon argues that doing justice to others is never to one's benefit; he cites the mythical Ring of Gyges, a ring which could make any man who wore it invisible and thus able to get away with any theft or other crime. Glaucon claims that such power would corrupt any man, and that therefore no man truly believes that acting justly toward others is good for him.\n\nCritics of Tolkien's use of this theme include Colin Manlove, who addresses the theme in his book \"Modern Fantasy\" (1975). Manlove points out that Tolkien is not consistent in his attitude towards power, for there are exceptions to the supposedly overwhelming influence of the Ring. The Ring \"can\" be handed over relatively easily (Sam and Bilbo), and removing the Ring by force (Gollum to Frodo) does not, despite Gandalf's assertion at the beginning of the story, break Frodo's mind. The Ring also appears to have little effect on characters such as Aragorn, Legolas and Gimli.\n\nAnalyses have also characterised the Ring as addictive, with each use progressively increasing the hold the Ring has over its bearer. Bilbo, while possessing the Ring for some time, is able to give it away willingly, though with considerable difficulty. Later, when he encounters the Ring in Rivendell, he experiences longing to hold it again and nearly attacks his nephew. Frodo also shows features of addiction, ultimately being unable to relinquish the Ring of his own accord.\n\nThe possessiveness of the two hobbits is relatively mild compared to others in the epic. Boromir, for example, becomes murderously obsessed with the Ring, though he never possesses it. In the same vein, Sméagol kills his kin Déagol, the first Ring bearer after Isildur. Sméagol's addictive features become more pronounced as, over five centuries, he devolves into Gollum, showing traits ranging from withdrawal and isolation to suspicion and anger towards others, with his obsession eventually leading to his own demise.\n\nTolkien's criticism of technology has been observed by several authors. Anne Pienciak notes that technology is only employed by the forces of evil in Tolkien's works, and that he found it to be one of \"the evils of the modern world: ugliness, depersonalization, and the separation of man from nature.\" Examples of this technophobia have been identified, for instance, in many aspects of the Saruman character. The chapter \"The Scouring of the Shire\" sees the industrial technology imported by Saruman's minions as an evil threat to replace the traditional crafts of the Shire hobbits, and was removed after his death. It is also of note that the Ents - \"Shepherds of the Trees\" - are instrumental in Saruman's downfall.\n\nCourage in the face of overwhelming odds is a recurring theme in Tolkien's literature. As he wrote in \"The Monsters and the Critics\", Tolkien was inspired by the apocalyptical Norse legend of \"Ragnarök,\" where the gods know that they are doomed in their final battle for the world, but they and their allies go to fight anyway. This \"northern courage\" as he called it is seen in the fate of Frodo and Samwise, for example, who have little prospect of returning home from their mission to Mount Doom.\n\nAnother kind of courage was defined by Tolkien in the difference between humility and the arrogant desire for glory. While Sam follows Frodo out of loyalty and would die for him, characters like Boromir are driven by pride and would risk the lives of others for their personal glory. Likewise the rejecting of the ring by Sam, Faramir, and Galadriel can be seen as a courageous rejection of power and glory and of the personal renown that defeating Sauron would have brought about. Tolkien has commented on this theme in an essay on \"The Battle of Maldon.\"\n\nFrom the beginning of Tolkien's mythos, there has been a consistent theme of great beauty and joy failing and disappearing before the passage of time and the onslaught of the powers of evil. Fëanor, prince of the Noldor, first loses his father and then his greatest creations, the Silmarils, through the machinations of the evil Morgoth. By his fault Elven blood is for the first time spilled on the ground of Eldamar, and the Noldor give away both their home and their innocence. Mandos proclaims judgement over the Noldor and reveals to them that none of them shall find peace or rest until their oath has been fulfilled or their souls come to the House of Spirits.\n\nIn one of the appendices to \"The Return of the King\", after more than two hundred years of life Aragorn dies in his deathbed, leaving behind a lonely and now-mortal Arwen, who travels to what is left of Lothlórien to herself die on a flat stone next to the river Nimrodel, having returned to one of the few places of true happiness she knew in her life.\n\nThis theme is seen in the weight of the past borne in the language of the whole novel and in specific portions, such as Gilraen's linnod and the Lament of the Rohirrim.\n\nGandalf in one scene discusses the possibility that Bilbo was meant to find the Ring, and that Gollum has an important part to play, the clearest testament to the role of fate in \"The Lord of the Rings.\" Beyond Gandalf's words, the story is structured in such a way that past decisions have a critical influence on current events. For instance, because Bilbo and Frodo spared Gollum, Gollum was able to destroy the Ring by falling into the Crack of Doom while Frodo failed to destroy it. Thus Frodo, who is overpowered by the evil Ring, is saved by coincidence.\n\nThe role of fate in \"The Lord of the Rings\" is contrasted sharply with the prominent role also given to choice and free will. Frodo's voluntary choice to bear the Ring to Mordor is seen to be an act central to the plot of the whole story. Also important is Frodo's willing offer of the Ring to Gandalf, Aragorn, and Galadriel, and their willing refusal of it, not to mention Frodo's final inability to summon the will to destroy it. Thus, free will as well as fate is seen to be a constant theme throughout the story: from Sam's vision of old Gaffer Gamgee's wheelbarrow and the Scouring of the Shire in the Mirror of Galadriel, to Arwen Evenstar's choice of mortality.\n\nProfessor Peter J. Kreeft identifies a theme of divine providence, that divine influence can determine fate. Gandalf says, for example, that a hidden power was at work when Bilbo found the One Ring as it was attempting to return to its master.\n\nWhile Prof. Kreeft observes that there is no one complete, concrete, visible Christ figure in The Lord of the Rings (such as Aslan in the Chronicles of Narnia series), he and author Jean Chausse have identified reflections of the figure of Jesus Christ in three main characters of \"The Lord of the Rings\": Gandalf, Frodo and Aragorn. While Chausse found \"facets of the personality of Jesus\" in them, Kreeft wrote that \"they exemplify the Old Testament threefold Messianic symbolism of prophet (Gandalf), priest (Frodo), and king (Aragorn).\"\n\nMark Stucky sees this character as a symbol of the resurrection of Christ. \"Moria\", where Gandalf fell, is reminiscent of \"Moriah\", and Christian tradition holds that Mount Moriah, where Isaac was to be sacrificed to God, was the same hill as Mount Calvary, where Christ was crucified – and that the sacrifice of Isaac foreshadowed that of Christ. The fall of Gandalf, who fell to save his companions, thus parallels the crucifixion of Christ to save the human race. One of the most obvious Christian themes in Tolkien's writings is the resurrection of Gandalf, who had to sacrifice everything—even his years of plans, efforts, and his very hopes that the Dark Lord might be defeated—in order to secure the safety of the Fellowship.\n\nLike Jesus who carried his cross for the sins of mankind, Frodo carried a burden of evil on behalf of the whole world. Frodo walks his \"Via Dolorosa\" to Mount Doom just like Jesus who made his way to Golgotha. As Frodo approaches the Cracks of Doom the Ring becomes a crushing weight as the cross was for Jesus. Samwise Gamgee, Frodo's friend, parallels Simon of Cyrene, who carries Frodo up to Mount Doom - The same way Simon aids Jesus by picking up his cross to Golgotha. When Frodo accomplishes his mission, like Christ, he says \"it is done\". As Christ ascends to heaven, Frodo’s life in Middle-earth comes to an end when he departs to the Undying Lands.\n\nThe motif of hope is illustrated in Aragorn's successful handling of Saruman's palantír. Only Aragorn, as the heir of Isildur, can rightfully use the seeing stone, while Saruman and Denethor, who have both also made extensive use of a palantír, have fallen into despair or presumption. These latter traits have been identified as the two distinct sins \"against the virtue of Hope\". Aragorn is given the very name of \"Hope\" (Sindarin \"Estel\"), by which he is still affectionately called by his queen, who at the hour of his death cries out \"Estel, Estel!\".\n\nAnother Christian theme found in Tolkien's works of fantasy is the redemptive and penitential nature of suffering, apparent in the dreadful ordeal of Sam and Frodo in Mordor. As another example, Boromir atones for his assault on Frodo by single-handedly but vainly defending Merry and Pippin from orcs, which illustrates also another significant Christian theme: immortality of the soul and the importance of good intention, especially at the point of death. This is clear from Gandalf's statement: \"But he [Boromir] escaped in the end... It was not in vain that the young hobbits came with us, if only for Boromir's sake.\" The young hobbits thus prove useful (and their ordeal at the Orcs' hands worth enduring) since thereby one man who had given in to temptation can return to the good path and give his life, however ineffectively, for a good cause.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "87276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87276", "title": "Thoughtcrime", "text": "Thoughtcrime\n\nA thoughtcrime is an Orwellian neologism used to describe an illegal thought. The term was popularized in the dystopian novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" by George Orwell, first published in 1949, wherein thoughtcrime is the criminal act of holding unspoken beliefs or doubts that oppose or question Ingsoc, the ruling party. In the book, the government attempts to control not only the speech and actions, but also the thoughts of its subjects. To entertain unacceptable thoughts is known as crimethink (or wrongthink) in Newspeak, the ideologically purified dialect of the party. Crimestop is a way to avoid crimethink by immediately purging dangerous thoughts from the mind.\n\nThe term has been adopted into the English language to describe beliefs contrary to accepted norms and has retrospectively been used to describe some theological concepts such as disbelief or idolatry, or a rejection of strong philosophical or social principles.\n\nThe Thought Police (\"thinkpol\" in Newspeak) are the secret police of the novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\". It is their job to uncover and punish \"thoughtcrime\". The Thought Police use surveillance and psychological monitoring to find and eliminate members of society who challenge the party's authority and ideology.\n\nThe Thought Police of Orwell and their pursuit of \"thoughtcrime\" were inspired by the methods used by the totalitarian states and ideologies of the 20th century.\n\nThe term \"Thought Police\", by extension, has come to refer to real or perceived enforcement of ideological correctness.\n\nTechnology played a significant part in the detection of \"thoughtcrime\" in \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\"—with the ubiquitous telescreens which could inform the government and misinform and monitor the population. The citizens of Oceania are watched by the Thought Police through the telescreens. Every movement, reflex, facial expression, and reaction is measured by this system, monitored by the Ministry of Love.\n\nAt times, it seems as if the telescreen is constantly watching each citizen. Winston Smith recognises that he has no idea who is behind the technology, watching him or anyone else.\n\nBecause of this system of surveillance, the Thought Police and the Ministry of Love become universally feared by any member of the Outer Party or any one of the 'Proles' who is capable (or felt by the Party to be capable) of thoughtcrime.\n\n\"Crimestop\" means to rid oneself of unwanted thoughts immediately, i.e., thoughts that interfere or disagree with the ideology of the Party. This way, a person avoids committing thoughtcrime.\n\nIn the novel, we hear about crimestop through the eyes of protagonist Winston Smith:\n\nOrwell also describes crimestop from the perspective of Emmanuel Goldstein in the book \"The Theory and Practice of Oligarchical Collectivism\":\nSome modern writers have described people who were prosecuted and burned at the stake for heresy in various countries that followed Abrahamic religions, as having been the victims of thoughtcrime laws; such victims would sometimes be offered the chance to repent for their thoughtcrimes.\n\nSimilarly people have been executed, or imprisoned in concentration camps, during the 20th century under totalitarian regimes, such as Adolf Hitler's Third Reich (Nazi Germany), Stalinist Soviet Union, Maoist China, and Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge.\n\nWorks:\n\n"}
{"id": "20286650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20286650", "title": "Thumbelina: A Magical Story", "text": "Thumbelina: A Magical Story\n\nThe series was edited into an eighty-minute film and released in North America on VHS by Starmaker Entertainment in 1993. In 2006, Digiview Entertainment re-released the Starmaker film to DVD.\n\nUnable to control her mischievous young daughter Maya, an exhausted mother seeks the guidance of an old witch living on the edge of town. The witch gives this mother a magical copy of the fairy tale \"Thumbelina\" and tells her to read this to Maya. Later, when her mother falls asleep, Maya shrinks and is pulled inside the world of the book. A good witch appears and tells her that she is in her mother's dream world and that in order to return to normal, she must find a way to wake up her mother. To do this, she must travel to a faraway southern land to talk to the Crystal Prince, who will help her reach home. During her journey Maya faces many trials and hardships; along the way she befriends members of the dream world, who band together to help her reach the land of the South.\n\n\nProduced by Enoki Films and adapted from the original Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale \"Thumbelina\" by Akiyoshi Sakai, it premiered in Japan on TV Tokyo on September 30, 1992 and ran for twenty-six episodes until its conclusion on March 31, 1993.\n\nThe series was licensed for release in North America by Starmaker Entertainment, which released the series to VHS format under the name \"Thumbelina\" on December 16, 1993. The Starmaker release was heavily edited, with director Jim Terry reducing the series to an eighty-minute film. On May 9, 2006, Digiview Entertainment re-released the Starmaker version to Region 1 DVD as \"Thumbelina: A Magical Story\". The full series is also licensed for regional language releases in Colombia by Centauro Comunicaciones and in Italy by Italia 1 which broadcast the Italian dub on its channel.\n\nThe series uses two pieces of theme music, one opening and one ending theme, both performed by Yuki Matsura. The opening theme is while the ending theme is .\n"}
{"id": "5514996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5514996", "title": "United Nations Society of Writers", "text": "United Nations Society of Writers\n\nThe United Nations Society of Writers is a club for United Nations staff registered with the United Nations Staff Socio Cultural Commission in Geneva, and is known under the acronyms UNSW and SENU, corresponding to \"Societé des écrivains des Nations Unies\". It was founded in Geneva on Friday 14 August 1989 by Sergio Chaves (Argentina), Leonor Sampaio (Brazil) and Alfred de Zayas (United States).\n\nThe UNSW organizes literary events, poetry readings, round tables and publishes a yearly literary journal, \"Ex Tempore\", with a print run of 500 copies. As of December 2016, twenty-seven issues have appeared. The name Ex Tempore was chosen since staff contributions should be crisp, impromptu, and as far away as possible from the stale UN jargon of resolutions and reports. Volume 21 (December 2010) is devoted to \"music, the international language\" and comprises 104 pages. Volume 22 is dedicated to the 300th anniversary of the birth of Jean-Jacques Rousseau. Volume 23 is dedicated to the human right to peace. Volume 24 covers the bicentennials of Verdi and Wagner, the trans-frontier exhibition \"art en campagne\", cows, swans, the environment—and love. Volume 25 is the anniversary issue, spanning 184 pages and covers the activities of UN staffers on behalf of peace. Volume 26 is dedicated to the environment, COP21 and the Sustainable Development Goals; vol. 27 is dedicated to the metaphysics of language and communication, the origin of poetry since Gilgamesh and Homer; volume 28 addresses the concept of happiness in the light of the UN-declared international day of happiness, also deals with music and creativity.\n\nUNSW has proven that UN staffers can also write literature. The journal \"Ex Tempore\" has been widely acclaimed in the Swiss press and received media attention from the Tribune de Geneve (9 April 1997, \"Les internationaux lancent un Salon littéraire\", p. 12, 4 March 1998, p. 11 \"l'Onu en poésie\", 12 February 2000, 28 February 2001 \"Ex Tempore a tenu sa soirée littéraire\", 12 February 2004 \"Le Cerce de poètes qui libère les onusiens\", Le Courrier 18 June 1998, \"Une revue cherche à tisser des liens entre l'ONU et la cité\", 10 February 2000 \"littérature\" p. 11, Le Journal de Geneve, Le Temps, and DIVA International (2006 Nr. 2, p. 36). UN Special April 2008, p. 33: \"Ex Tempore- Nouveau Numéro et Soirée Littéraire\". Its members have been interviewed by local television stations such as Leman Bleu, and by local radio stations, including Radio Cité. The journal has its own issn number: and is kept by some 20 libraries worldwide, including the Library of Congress, the Deutsche Nationalbibliothek in Leipzig and the Schweizerisches Landesbilbiothek in Bern. On 5 October 2008 Ex Tempore hosted the Mahmoud Darwish memorial lecture during which poems of the Palestinian poet were read out in arbic, English and French. On 25 January 2013 UNSW held its 17th annual salon, attended by 65 UN writers. On 24 January 2014 the 18th annual salon was held, attended by 62 UN staffers, on 23 January 2015 the 19th salon, on 22 January 2016 the 20th salon, on 20 January 2017 the 21st salon; the 22nd salon on 26 January 2018.\n\nAfter 15 years as president of the UN Society of Writers, Alfred de Zayas retired in December 2005, but remains as editor of the literary journal. Following the General Assembly of UNSW held on 19 November 2017 at the Palais des Nations in Geneva, the composition of the new UNSW Board is:\n\n\nHonorary President: Michael Moller, Director-General of the United Nations Office at Geneva (UNOG)\nMartine Thévebit and Josep Garí joined the editorial committee.\n\nThe new internet domain for the UNSW journal \"Ex Tempore\" www.extempore.ch is now operational. \n\nThe March 2017 issue of UN Special publishes an article on the history of the Society of Writers. /The April 2006 issue of UN Special brings an interesting article including a Rilke translation \"Célébration des lettres\" (https://web.archive.org/web/20110929175900/http://www.unspecial.org/UNS650/t52.html). The January 2009 UN Special (11,000 copies) brings an essay \"UN Society of Writers welcomes 2009\" written by de Zayas and elaborating on the vocation of UN staffers, in particularly writers, to work for peace and universal understanding.\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20150512041310/http://www.unspecial.org/UNS680/t24.html\nDIVA International, a Geneva quarterly, published in its number 2/2010 the article by Johannes van Aggelen \"Celebrating Cultural Diversity - Ex Tempore at 20\", pp. 32–33.\nThe UN Special announced the publication of Vol. 21 of Ex Tempore, dedicated to Music as an international language, in an article: \"Le Numéro XXI d'Ex Tempore est tiré; il faut le lire\" U.N.Special, février 2011, p. 10. The June 2011 issue of UN Special reproduces an article from Ex Tempore XXI on pages 14/15. The April 2013 issue of UN Special reproduces an essay from Ex Tempore XXIII. \nDiva International publishes on the 18th Ex Tempore Salon of 24 January 2014 and the publication of Ex Tempore volume XXIV \nDiva International and UN Special both published on the Library event of 14 October 2014 to celebrate 25 years of UN writers.\n"}
{"id": "47780073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47780073", "title": "University Council for Educational Administration", "text": "University Council for Educational Administration\n\nThe University Council for Educational Administration (UCEA) is a leading nonprofit, research-oriented, institutional-only member organization dedicated to improving the profession of educational administration. The organization was founded at Columbia University in the City of New York in 1954 by a group of fifteen universities concerned about the advancing the quality of educational leadership professionals and the state of the field. Today, membership includes almost 100 member schools, mostly from the United States, but also universities in Australia and Hong Kong. Many of the public universities in the Association of American Universities are also members of the UCEA. The organization is also notable for publishing the \"Educational Administrative Quarterly\", one of the leading research journals dedicated to educational administration.\n"}
{"id": "53445845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53445845", "title": "Virginia literature", "text": "Virginia literature\n\nThe literature of Virginia, United States, includes fiction, poetry, and nonfiction. Representative authors include Rita Dove, Ellen Glasgow, William Hoffman, Lee Smith, Carolyn Kreiter-Foronda and William Styron. Journals featuring work of Virginia writers include the \"New Virginia Review\" (est. 1978), \"Richmond Quarterly\" (est. 1980), \"Edgar Allan Poe Review\" (est. 2000), and \"Virginia Adversaria\" (est. 2000).\n\nA printing press began operating in Jamestown, Virginia, in 1682. Colonial- and Federal-era writers included John Smith (\"True Relation of Occurrences and Accidents in Virginia\", 1608); Robert Beverley, Jr. (\"History and Present State of Virginia,\" 1705); Arthur Blackamore (\"Religious Triumverate,\" 1720); Thomas Jefferson (\"Notes on the State of Virginia,\" 1785).\n\nLiterary figures of the antebellum period included Edgar Allan Poe and Virginia-born writers William Alexander Caruthers (1802–1846), John Esten Cooke (1830-1886), Philip Pendleton Cooke (1816 -1850), Nathaniel Beverley Tucker (1784-1851). The \"Southern Literary Messenger\" launched in Richmond in 1834.\n\nMarion Fontaine Cabell Tyree's \"Housekeeping in Old Virginia,\" a cookbook, was published in Richmond in 1878.\n\nThe Poetry Society of Virginia formed in 1923.\n\nThe Virginia General Assembly created the position of Poet Laureate of Virginia in 1936.\n\n\n\n"}
