{"id": "9310154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9310154", "title": "ABC Africa", "text": "ABC Africa\n\nABC Africa is a 2001 Iranian documentary feature film directed by Abbas Kiarostami. It was screened out of competition at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nInvited by the United Nations to study the endeavors of the Uganda Women’s Effort to Save Orphans, Kiarostami and his collaborator Seifollah Samadian initially went to the country to scout locations for a feature length film. However, when the pair returned home and examined the more than twenty hours of digital footage shot on digital video with a handheld video camera over the course of ten days, they decided their material was worth editing into the feature length film. For Kiarostami, this film was a return to his early themes of resilient children in the face of adversity, but for the first time it was outside his homeland with a more versatile format. Nevertheless, Iran’s foremost film-maker has succeeded in locating reasons for optimism among the nearly two million orphans left helpless by the ravages of civil war and AIDS.\n\nSet in a refugee camp in Kampala, Uganda, Kiarostami intersperses scenes of women and children dancing, singing, and laughing with somber images of the death rampant from numerous diseases. Sometimes critiqued as touristic, there are several scenes of the children laughing, making faces at the camera, and being astounded as they watch their friends be recorded. Although this film is likely not the somber reflection on AIDS and civil war originally envisioned by the United Nations, it is a documentary of Kiarostami and Samadian's trip to Uganda, and the earnest reactions of the impacted women and children. The candid and often silly scenes of the children contrast sharply with quiet images of death that speak to both the true tragedies occurring as well as the everyday joys that allow the women and children to continue.\n\n"}
{"id": "58211621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58211621", "title": "Aini Ideris", "text": "Aini Ideris\n\nProfessor Datin Paduka Dato' Dr. Aini Ideris is a Malaysian academic and veterinarian. She is Vice-Chancellor of UPM, effective 1 January 2016. Her research interests include disease control and productions of vaccines for poultry.\n\nIn 2011, Professor Dr. Aini received the National Academic Award (AAN) 2010 for the Innovation and Product Commercialisation Award Category, for the innovation and commercialisation of the Newcastle disease (ND V4-UPM) vaccines.\n\n"}
{"id": "4948308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4948308", "title": "Allostasis", "text": "Allostasis\n\nAllostasis is the process of achieving stability, or homeostasis, through physiological or behavioral change. This can be carried out by means of alteration in HPA axis hormones, the autonomic nervous system, cytokines, or a number of other systems, and is generally adaptive in the short term . Allostasis is essential in order to maintain internal viability amid changing conditions (; ; ; ).\n\nAllostasis provides compensation for various problems, such as in compensated heart failure, compensated kidney failure, and compensated liver failure. However, such allostatic states are inherently fragile, and decompensation can occur quickly, as in acute decompensated heart failure.\n\nThe concept of allostasis was proposed by Sterling and Eyer in 1988 to describe an additional process of reestablishing homeostasis, but one that responds to a challenge instead of to subtle ebb and flow. This theory suggests that both homeostasis and allostasis are endogenous systems responsible for maintaining the internal stability of an organism. Homeostasis, from the Greek homeo, means \"similar,\" while stasis means \"stand;\" thus, \"standing at about the same level.\" (The term was not coined as \"homostasis\" or \"standing the same\" because internal states are frequently being disturbed and corrected, thus rarely perfectly constant.) Allostasis was coined similarly, from the Greek allo, which means \"variable;\" thus, \"remaining stable by being variable\" (; ). Allostatic regulation reflects, at least partly, cephalic involvement in primary regulatory events, in that it is anticipatory to systemic physiological regulation (; ). The term Heterostasis is also used in place of Allostasis, particularly where state changes are finite in number and therefore discrete (e.g. computational processes). \nWingfield states:The concept of allostasis, maintaining stability through change, is a fundamental process through which organisms actively adjust to both predictable and unpredictable events... Allostatic load refers to the cumulative cost to the body of allostasis, with allostatic overload... being a state in which serious pathophysiology can occur... Using the balance between energy input and expenditure as the basis for applying the concept of allostasis, two types of allostatic overload have been proposed .\n\nSterling (2004) proposes six interrelated principles that underlie allostasis:\n\nThe difference between allostasis and homeostasis is popularized by Robert Sapolsky's book Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers:\n\nMcEwen and Wingfield propose two types of allostatic load which result in different responses:-\n\nType 1 allostatic overload occurs when energy demand exceeds supply, resulting in activation of the emergency life history stage. This serves to direct the animal away from normal life history stages into a survival mode that decreases allostatic load and regains positive energy balance. The normal life cycle can be resumed when the perturbation passes.\n\nType 2 allostatic overload begins when there is sufficient or even excess energy consumption accompanied by social conflict and other types of social dysfunction. The latter is the case in human society and certain situations affecting animals in captivity. In all cases, secretion of glucocorticosteroids and activity of other mediators of allostasis such as the autonomic nervous system, CNS neurotransmitters, and inflammatory cytokines wax and wane with allostatic load. If allostatic load is chronically high, then pathologies develop. Type 2 allostatic overload does not trigger an escape response, and can only be counteracted through learning and changes in the social structure (; )\n\nWhereas both types of allostasis are associated with increased release of cortisol and catecholamines, they differentially affect thyroid homeostasis: Concentrations of the thyroid hormone triiodothyronine are decreased in type 1 allostasis, but elevated in type 2 allostasis.\n\nIn the long run, allostatic changes may fail to be adaptive as the maintenance of allostatic changes over a long period may result in wear and tear, the so-called allostatic load. If a dehydrated individual is helped but continues to be stressed and hence does not reinstate normal body function, the individual's body systems will wear out. The human body is adaptable, but it cannot maintain allostatic overload for very long without consequence.\n\nTrevor A. Day has argued that the concept of allostasis is no more than a renaming of the original concept of homeostasis .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23514046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23514046", "title": "Argentine Association for the Study of Pain", "text": "Argentine Association for the Study of Pain\n\nThe Argentine Association for the Study of Pain (Spanish: \"Asociación Argentina para el estudio del Dolor, AAED\") is the Argentine chapter of the International Association for the Study of Pain (IASP), a medical professional organization promoting research, education and policies for the knowledge and management of pain. Founded in 1974, the Argentine chapter was the first national chapter of the IASP to be created in Latin America. It organises a biannual academic conference, the \"Congreso Argentino de Dolor\", and was scheduled to be the organiser of the IASP's worldwide conference in 2014.\n\nAmong the association's political aims has been the promotion of a \"right to treatment of pain\" as a human right to be recognised by the United Nations.\n"}
{"id": "26038097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26038097", "title": "Baker Perkins", "text": "Baker Perkins\n\nBaker Perkins Ltd is a British engineering company based in Peterborough offering manufacturing and process services to the food industry throughout the world.\n\nThe company has its origins with Jacob Perkins (1766-1849), an American inventor who moved to England in 1819 from Massachusetts. His son, Angier March Perkins (1799-1881), founded the firm of A. M. Perkins & Co Ltd to manufacture his inventions. In 1893, the company merged with Werner & Pfleiderer (London) to form Werner, Pfleiderer & Perkins Ltd. In 1904, WP&P moved their manufacturing from London to Westwood, Peterborough. In 1914, owing to pressure over its German-sounding name, the company became Perkins Engineers Ltd. During World War I, the company produced a range of armaments including Ricardo engines for Mark IV tanks. In 1918 it merged with Joseph Baker & Sons Ltd of Willesden to become Joseph Baker Sons & Perkins Ltd and in 1923, Baker Perkins Ltd.\n\nBy the time of the merger, Baker and Perkins were well-established names in the bakery, biscuit, confectionery, chocolate and chemical machinery industries. Just as the companies combined, the Bakers bought a factory in Saginaw, Michigan, that for over 60 years was the base for manufacture of food and chemical equipment in North America.\n\nBetween the wars, the company manufactured a wide range of machinery including laundry equipment. \nIn 1939, Baker Perkins was asked to take on production of the new twin 6-pounder coast defence gun and also made components for a wide range of other artillery pieces. Post war, Baker Perkins specialised in equipment for the food processing and printing industries.\n\nThe business had expanded to become global in its organisation and sales when in 1987 the dairy and liquid food specialist, APV, acquired it. During this time the company relocated from old premises near the centre of Peterborough to a new purpose-built facility on the outskirts.\n\nIn 2006 Baker Perkins regained its historical name and its independence when it was acquired by private investors.\n\nMost recently, Baker Perkins has introduced new moulding and forming technology for bread; developed equipment allowing confectioners to develop candies and lollipops; and pioneered technology expanding the variety of snacks and breakfast cereals.\n\nBaker Perkins currently operates in two office locations, the headquarters being in Paston, Peterborough with a second office in Grand Rapids, Michigan.\n\nBaker Perkins maintains close links to the industries it serves through membership of key trade associations and research organisations. These include AACC International, PMCA, BEMA and B&CMA in the US: and the Leatherhead Food International and Campden BRI in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "13449980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13449980", "title": "Barber–Johnson diagram", "text": "Barber–Johnson diagram\n\nA Barber–Johnson diagram is a method of presenting hospital statistics combining four different variables in a unique graph, introduced in 1973. The method constructs a scattergram where length of stay, turnover interval, discharges, and deaths per available bed are combined. These four variables have a common relationship between them and their combination in the diagram permitted a new improved way for analyzing efficiency and performance of the hospital sector. The most complete reference about how to construct the diagram could be found in Yates. In this book, the appendix explains in detail the way for elaborating this kind of diagram.\n\n"}
{"id": "12571868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12571868", "title": "Belgian Red Cross", "text": "Belgian Red Cross\n\nThe Belgian Red Cross is a humanitarian organization that aids in providing emergency and disaster related services and relief as well as providing education for disaster awareness within the population of Belgium. It is a member of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent. \n\nThe mission of the Belgian Red Cross follows the same guidelines and principles of all International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement organizations. To prevent medical, psychological, and sociological problems and crisis. As well as to aid in resolving such problems and issues through the implementation of trainings, educational development and through the overall assistance and presence of Red Cross members in times of turmoil. The members of this organization believe in the strength of social bonds amongst individuals as being the greatest preventative measure against isolation and marginalization. \"\"\nThe Red Cross and The Red Crescent are both humanitarian organizations that are dedicated to providing relief and assistance for prisoners of war, inspecting the conditions of prisons and helping in times of natural disasters.There really is not much that is different between the Red Cross and the Red Crescent other than their symbol. The cross is a symbol best known in Christianity, and those that are Muslim do not particularly want to be represented with a Christian symbol; hence the crescent. The crescent is an Islamic symbol important to the Muslims, similarly as the cross is to those of the Christian belief. Therefore, the Red Crescent and the Red Cross both provide primarily the same humanitarian services and aid as one another.\n\nThe Belgian Red Cross was established in 1864 by Doctor Andrea Wegner and has its headquarters in Brussels, Belgium.\nThis national society was formed on February 4, 1864. \n\nThis is an Flemish independent volunteer based organization under the umbrella of The Belgian Red Cross and is a connected member of the International Red Cross and the Red Crescent Movement. The mission of this umbrella organization is best divided into three parts. \n\nThe assistance from volunteers is what heavily drives this organization, and is the foundation on which it practices. \"\"\nThis is a French speaking Belgian branch of the Red Cross. This umbrella organization of the Belgian Red Cross is also like Rode Kris-Vlaanderens as it is a connected member of the International Red Cross and the Red Crescent Movement. The mission of this Belgian Red Cross branch are as follows:\nAt the Flanders Fields Museum in Ypres, Belgium the world can reflect and remember the First World War, and the role that the Red Cross played during this wartime. It was created by the ICRC (International Committee of the Red Cross) Delegation to the EU (European Union), NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) and the Kingdom of Belgium and the Belgian Red Cross. The exhibit features the work both back during the war as well as currently; which allows the common eye to see the semblance that much of it has. In this exhibit visitors can look up if any of their ancestors or relatives were registered as a Prisoner of War during '14-18'. This exhibit was open to the public eye for viewing until the end of December 2014.\n\nIn March 2016 The Belgian Red Cross responded to the attacks in Brussels. The Belgian Red cross sent out about 400 people to respond to bombings in Brussels on March 22. The Belgian Red Cross, on the day of the attacks sent out 30 ambulances to the Zaventem Airport and Maelbeek metro station. They also transported over 100 wounded individuals to over 16 different hospitals to gain medical care.\"\"\nOne of the mission projects of the various umbrella organizations of The Belgian Red Cross is aiding in providing assistance in helping individuals reunite and find their family members. The Belgian Red Cross aids in providing resources for people to find their family members that may be lost or missing in contact as a result of some of the following factors; violent situations and armed conflict, man-made or natural disasters, migration, Wars (i.e. World War II), or any other situations of humanitarian need. \n\n"}
{"id": "50823539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50823539", "title": "Brahmanbaria Medical College", "text": "Brahmanbaria Medical College\n\nBrahmanbaria Medical College (BMC) () is a private university medical school which began educating students in 2013. The college is located in Ghatura, Brahmanbaria Sadar Upazila, Brahmanbaria, Bangladesh, and is affiliated with University of Chittagong as a constituent college.This medical college is recognised by Bangladesh Medical & Dental Council(BM&DC)\n\nBMC offers a five-year course of study leading to a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) degree. One-year internships after graduation are common, but not compulsory for all graduates. The degree is recognised by the Bangladesh Medical and Dental Council (BMDC).\n\nThe college building is attached to a 250-bed hospital, which also publishes a formal medical journal: \"Brahmanbaria Medical College Journal\".\n\nBrahmanbaria Medical College (BMC) was established in 2010 and its first class of students matriculated in the 2013–14 academic year when the school was granted affiliation with the University of Chittagong. The first incoming class consisted of 50 students, but has since grown to 80 enrolled students.\n\nThe college is located in Brahmanbaria Sadar, Brahmanbaria. There is a strict no-smoking policy on college property. The hospital is equipped with an ambulance service and a hemodialysis unit which operates at all hours of the day. Due to space limitations, professors and consultants provide services outdoors during daylight hours; if the patient is in need of extra care or more assistance, they are sent inside.\n\nThe college is affiliated with Chittagong University. The chairman of the college is Md. Abu Sayed. The principal is Prof. Brig. Gen. (retired) Md. Shafiqul Islam.\n\nIn October 2014, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare capped admission and tuition fees at private medical colleges at 1,990,000 Bangladeshi taka (US$25,142 as of 2017) total for their five-year courses.\n\nAdmission for Bangladeshis to the MBBS programme at all medical colleges in Bangladesh (government and private) is conducted centrally by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS). It administers a written multiple choice question exam simultaneously throughout the country. Candidates are admitted based primarily on their score on this test, although grades at Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC) level also play a part. Seats are reserved, according to quotas set by the DGHS, for children of freedom fighters and for students from underprivileged backgrounds.\n\n"}
{"id": "42320214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42320214", "title": "Campbell Collaboration", "text": "Campbell Collaboration\n\nThe Campbell Collaboration describes itself as a \"nonprofit organization that aims to help people make well-informed decisions about the effects of interventions in the social, behavioral, and educational arenas.\" More specifically, it \"helps people make well-informed decisions by preparing, maintaining and disseminating systematic reviews in education, crime and justice, social welfare and international development.\" It is a sister initiative of the Cochrane Collaboration and is based in Oslo.\n\nThe Campbell Collaboration is one of a number of groups promoting evidence-based policy in the social sciences. Although it is an international collaboration, it tends to be focused more on the challenges of First World countries, where the social science research is better. The International Initiative for Impact Evaluation (3ie) and the University of Ottawa established the International Development Coordinating Group (IDCG) in May 2011 to publish reviews on international development topics.\n\nThe Campbell Collaboration was created as a result of an exploratory meeting under the aegis of the School of Public Policy at University College London in July 1999. The exploratory meeting proved fruitful and the Campbell Collaboration was created in 2000. The inaugural meeting was held at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, United States, on 24–25 February 2000, and attracted 85 participants from 13 countries.\n\nThe collaboration was named after the American psychologist Donald T. Campbell (1916-1996), a member of the National Academy of Sciences in the United States.\n\nIn December 2004, the American Psychological Association published an article on the work of the Campbell Collaboration.\n\nIn May 2005, a special issue of the Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science was devoted to describing what the evidence-based approach of the Cochrane Collaboration and Campbell Collaboration had uncovered.\n\nCharity evaluator and effective altruism advocate GiveWell had listed the Campbell Collaboration as one of its sources of information when trying to assess the state of evidence for various social policies and interventions in the United States. GiveWell co-director Holden Karnofsky later clarified that, since the Campbell Collaboration focus areas were not directly pertinent to development economics or improving the lives of poor people, the utility of their research to GiveWell's current areas of focus was limited.\n\n"}
{"id": "52355945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52355945", "title": "Cannabis in Ethiopia", "text": "Cannabis in Ethiopia\n\nCannabis in Ethiopia is illegal, and possession of cannabis can result in up to 6 months imprisonment.\n\nSmoking pipes uncovered in Ethiopia and carbon-dated to around 1320 CE were found to have traces of cannabis.\n\nIn the 1960s, Rastafari immigrants from the Caribbean began to settle on land near Shashamane which had been set aside for them by Emperor Haile Selassie I. Subsequently Shashamane has become known for its cannabis cultivation, largely meant for local consumption.\n"}
{"id": "58093393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58093393", "title": "Care Inspectorate (Flanders)", "text": "Care Inspectorate (Flanders)\n\nThe Flemish Care Inspectorate (in Dutch: \"Zorginspectie\") is a part of the Department of Welfare, Public Health and Family of the Flemish Government. The Flemish Government is the executive branch of the Flemish Community of Belgium. In Belgium, the Communities are responsible for the inspection of health and welfare services and establishments. The Care Inspectorate consists of two complementary divisions of the department: one for the inspection of services for disabled people and child care services, and one for the inspection of welfare services, health services (such as hospitals) and financial matters. Together, they inspect all services and establishments in these domains that are recognised, licensed or subsidised by the department or any agency associated with it. The Care Inspectorate also inspects disabled people who receive a so-called \"personal assistance budget\" or financial compensation for assistive tools.\n\nAnno 2018, the Care Inspectorate has a staff of around 90 people, including about 70 inspectors. In 2017, the Care Inspectorate conducted 4,678 inspections, about half of which were of child care services. Of these 4,678 inspections, 401 were conducted after a complaint was made with the Care Inspectorate.\n\nThe predecessor to the current Care Inspectorate was officially founded on 1 April 2006, when the inspection services of the Flemish Child and Family Agency, the Flemish Agency for Persons with Disabilities, the Flemish Family and Social Welfare Administration, and the Flemish Health Care Administration were merged. The merger took place during the then-ongoing reorganisation of the Flemish administration. The newly found inspection service was given the status of an \"internally autonomous agency\". A few years later the agency was renamed as the \"Care Inspectorate\".\n\nUnder the Bourgeois Government, which assumed office in 2014, the Care Inspectorate was merged with the Department of Welfare, Public Health and Family. As of 1 January 2015, the Care Inspectorate consists of two divisions of the department.\n\nUnder local open records laws, anyone has a right to access the inspection reports made by the Care Inspectorate without having to give a reason. This is referred to as \"passive openness\". In some cases however, the Care Inspectorate can withhold (a part of) an inspection report from the public, for example when the report is not finished yet, or in order to protect the privacy of individuals. Since 2015, the Care Inspectorate also exercises what is referred to as \"active openness\". This means the Care Inspectorate actively works to make its reports public on its website. Aside from inspection reports, the public can also consult the results of quality assessments of hospitals that participate in the so-called \"Flemish Indicator Project for Patients and Professionals\" (shortened to VIP² in Dutch) on a separate website. These quality assessments are about breast cancer treatment or patient experiences, for example.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23043716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23043716", "title": "Charles Stevenson-Moore", "text": "Charles Stevenson-Moore\n\nSir Charles James Stevenson-Moore KCIE CVO (9 June 1866 – 22 July 1947) was a British administrator in India.\n\nStevenson-Moore was the son of a clergyman and was educated at Felsted School. Admitted to Peterhouse, Cambridge, he later transferred to Emmanuel College, Cambridge. He joined the Indian Civil Service in 1885 and went out to Bengal two years later. He served as Inspector-General of Police of Bengal from 1904 to 1907, when he was appointed Director of Criminal Intelligence of the Government of India. He served as Chief Secretary of Bengal from 1910 to 1914, as a member of the Bengal Board of Revenue from 1914 to 1920, and a member of the Executive Council of Bengal from 1920 to his retirement in 1921.\n\nHe was appointed Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (CVO) in 1912 and Knight Commander of the Order of the Indian Empire (KCIE) in the 1920 New Year Honours.\n\nA keen mountaineer, Stevenson-Moore was killed while climbing alone in the Alps near Montreux, Switzerland, at the age of 81.\n"}
{"id": "41677253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41677253", "title": "Contraception (journal)", "text": "Contraception (journal)\n\nContraception is a monthly peer-reviewed medical journal covering reproductive medicine. It is published by Elsevier and was established in 1970. It is the official journal of the Association of Reproductive Health Professionals and the Society of Family Planning. The founding editor-in-chief was Daniel R. Mishell, Jr. (University of Southern California) and the current one is Carolyn Westhoff (Mailman School of Public Health). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 2.335, ranking it 23rd out of 79 journals in the category \"Obstetrics & Gynecology\".\n"}
{"id": "7720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7720", "title": "Coprophagia", "text": "Coprophagia\n\nCoprophagia () or coprophagy () is the consumption of feces. The word is derived from the Greek κόπρος \"copros\", \"feces\" and φαγεῖν \"phagein\", \"to eat\". \"Coprophagy\" refers to many kinds of feces-eating, including eating feces of other species (heterospecifics), of other individuals (allocoprophagy), or one's own (autocoprophagy) – those once deposited or taken directly from the anus.\n\nIn humans, coprophagia has been observed in individuals with mental illnesses, as well as an unconventional sexual act. Some animal species eat feces as a normal behavior, in particular in the Lagomorpha (rabbits, hares, and pikas) doing so to allow tough plant materials to be digested more efficiently by passing twice through the digestive tract. Other species may do so only under unusual conditions.\n\nCoprophagia has been observed in some people with schizophrenia and pica.\n\nCoprophagous insects consume and redigest the feces of large animals. These feces contain substantial amounts of semi-digested food, particularly in the case of herbivores, owing to the inefficiency of the large animals' digestive systems. Two feces-eating insects are certain species of fly and the dung beetle. In regards to the dung beetle, their diet is mainly in the form of the microorganism-rich liquid component that is present in the dung of mammals, while they take advantage of the fibrous material in the dung for the female to lay her fertilized eggs in.\n\nTermites eat one another's feces as a means of obtaining their hindgut protists. Termites and protists have a symbiotic relationship (e.g. with the protozoan that allows the termites to digest the cellulose in their diet). For example, in one group of termites, there is a three-way symbiotic relationship: termites of the family Rhinotermitidae, cellulolytic protists of the genus \"Pseudotrichonympha\" in the guts of these termites, and intracellular bacterial symbionts of the protists.\n\nDomesticated and wild mammals are sometimes coprophagic, and in some species this forms an essential part of their method of digesting tough plant material.\n\nDogs may be coprophagic, possibly to rebalance their microbiome or to ingest missing nutrients.\n\nSpecies within the Lagomorpha (rabbits, hares, and pikas) produce two types of fecal pellets: hard ones, and soft ones called cecotropes. Animals in these species reingest their cecotropes, to extract further nutrients. Cecotropes derive from chewed plant material that collects in the cecum, a chamber between the large and small intestine, containing large quantities of symbiotic bacteria that help with the digestion of cellulose and also produce certain B vitamins. After excretion of the soft cecotrope, it is again eaten whole by the animal and redigested in a special part of the stomach. The pellets remain intact for up to six hours in the stomach; the bacteria within continue to digest the plant carbohydrates. This double-digestion process enables these animals to use nutrients that they may have missed during the first passage through the gut, as well as the nutrients formed by the microbial activity and thus ensures that maximum nutrients are derived from the food they eat. This process serves the same purpose within these animals as rumination (cud-chewing) does in cattle and sheep. \n\nCattle in the United States are often fed chicken litter. There are concerns that the practice of feeding chicken litter to cattle could lead to bovine spongiform encephalopathy (mad-cow disease) because of the crushed bone meal in chicken feed. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulates this practice by attempting to prevent the introduction of any part of a cow's brain or spinal cord into livestock feed. Other countries, like Canada, have banned chicken litter for use as a livestock feed.\n\nThe young of elephants, giant pandas, koalas and hippos eat the feces of their mothers or other animals in the herd, in order to obtain the bacteria required to properly digest vegetation found in their ecosystems. When such animals are born, their intestines are sterile and do not contain these bacteria. Without doing this they would be unable to obtain any nutritional value from plants.\n\nHamsters, guinea pigs, chinchillas, hedgehogs and naked mole-rat eat their own droppings, which are thought to be a source of vitamins B and K, produced by gut bacteria. Gorillas have been recorded to consume their feces extremely rarely, possibly out of boredom, a desire for warm food, or to reingest seeds contained in the feces.\n\nSome carnivorous plants, such as pitcher plants of the genus \"Nepenthes\", obtain nourishment from the feces of commensal animals.\n\nLewin reported that \"... consumption of fresh, warm camel feces has been recommended by Bedouins as a remedy for bacterial dysentery; its efficacy (probably attributable to the antibiotic subtilisin from \"Bacillus subtilis\") was anecdotally confirmed by German soldiers in Africa during World War II\".\n\nCenturies ago, physicians tasted their patients' feces, to better judge their state and condition.\n\nCoprophagia is sometimes depicted in pornography, usually under the term \"scat\" (from \"scatology\").\n\n\"The 120 Days of Sodom\", a novel by the Marquis de Sade written in 1785, is full of detailed descriptions of erotic sadomasochistic coprophagia. Thomas Pynchon's award-winning 1973 novel \"Gravity's Rainbow\" contains a detailed scene of coprophagia. François Rabelais, in his classic \"Gargantua and Pantagruel\", often employs the expression \"mâche-merde\" or \"mâchemerde\", meaning \"shit-chewer\". This in turn comes from the Greek comedians Aristophanes and particularly Menander, who often use the term skatophagos (\"σκατοϕφάγος\"). The Austrian actor and pornographic director created the series \"Avantgarde Extreme\" and \"Portrait Extrem\", which explores coprophagy, coprophilia and urolagnia. Modern Russian writer Vladimir Sorokin's novel \"Norma\" describes a society where coprophagia is institutionalised and mandatory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "528976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528976", "title": "Corpus luteum", "text": "Corpus luteum\n\nThe corpus luteum (Latin for \"yellow body\"; plural corpora lutea) is a temporary endocrine structure in female ovaries and is involved in the production of relatively high levels of progesterone, moderate levels of estradiol, inhibin A and small amounts of estrogen. It is the remains of the ovarian follicle that has released a mature ovum during a previous ovulation.\n\nThe corpus luteum is colored as a result of concentrating carotenoids (including lutein) from the diet and secretes a moderate amount of estrogen to inhibit further release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and thus secretion of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). A new corpus luteum develops with each menstrual cycle.\n\nThe \"corpus luteum\" develops from an ovarian follicle during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle or oestrous cycle, following the release of a secondary oocyte from the follicle during ovulation. The follicle first forms a corpus hemorrhagicum before it becomes a corpus luteum, but the term refers to the visible collection of blood, left after rupture of the follicle, that secretes progesterone. While the oocyte (later the zygote if fertilization occurs) traverses the Fallopian tube into the uterus, the corpus luteum remains in the ovary.\n\nThe corpus luteum is typically very large relative to the size of the ovary; in humans, the size of the structure ranges from under 2 cm to 5 cm in diameter.\n\nIts cells develop from the follicular cells surrounding the ovarian follicle. The follicular theca cells luteinize into small luteal cells (thecal-lutein cells) and follicular granulosa cells luteinize into large luteal cells (granulosal-lutein cells) forming the corpus luteum. Progesterone is synthesized from cholesterol by both the large and small luteal cells upon luteal maturation. Cholesterol-LDL complexes bind to receptors on the plasma membrane of luteal cells and are internalized. Cholesterol is released and stored within the cell as cholesterol ester. LDL is recycled for further cholesterol transport. Large luteal cells produce more progesterone due to uninhibited/basal levels of protein kinase A (PKA) activity within the cell. Small luteal cells have LH receptors that regulate PKA activity within the cell. PKA actively phosphorylates steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StAR) and translocator protein to transport cholesterol from the outer mitochondrial membrane to the inner mitochondrial membrane.\n\nThe development of the corpus luteum is accompanied by an increase in the level of the steroidogenic enzyme P450scc that converts cholesterol to pregnenolone in the mitochondria. Pregnenolone is then converted to progesterone that is secreted out of the cell and into the blood stream. During the bovine estrous cycle, plasma levels of progesterone increase in parallel to the levels of P450scc and its electron donor adrenodoxin, indicating that progesterone secretion is a result of enhanced expression of P450scc in the corpus luteum.\n\nThe mitochondrial P450 system electron transport chain including adrenodoxin reductase and adrenodoxin has been shown to leak electrons leading to the formation of superoxide radical. Apparently to cope with the radicals produced by this system and by enhanced mitochondrial metabolism, the levels of antioxidant enzymes catalase and superoxide dismutase also increase in parallel with the enhanced steroidogenesis in the corpus luteum.\n\nLike the previous theca cells, the theca lutein cells lack the aromatase enzyme that is necessary to produce estrogen, so they can only perform steroidogenesis until formation of androgens. The granulosa lutein cells do have aromatase, and use it to produce estrogens, using the androgens previously synthesized by the theca lutein cells, as the granulosa lutein cells in themselves do not have the 17α-hydroxylase or 17,20 lyase to produce androgens.\nOnce the corpus luteum regresses the remnant is known as corpus albicans.\n\nThe corpus luteum is essential for establishing and maintaining pregnancy in females. The corpus luteum secretes progesterone, which is a steroid hormone responsible for the decidualization of the endometrium (its development) and maintenance, respectively. It also produces relaxin, a hormone responsible for softening of the pubic symphysis which helps in parturition.\n\nIf the egg is not fertilized, the corpus luteum stops secreting progesterone and decays (after approximately 10 days in humans). It then degenerates into a corpus albicans, which is a mass of fibrous scar tissue.\n\nThe uterine lining (endometrium) is expelled through the vagina (in mammals that go through a menstrual cycle). In an estrous cycle, the lining degenerates back to normal size.\n\nIf the egg is fertilized and implantation occurs, the syncytiotrophoblast (derived from trophoblast) cells of the blastocyst secrete the hormone human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG, or a similar hormone in other species) by day 9 post-fertilization.\n\nHuman chorionic gonadotropin signals the corpus luteum to continue progesterone secretion, thereby maintaining the thick lining (endometrium) of the uterus and providing an area rich in blood vessels in which the zygote(s) can develop. From this point on, the corpus luteum is called the \"corpus luteum graviditatis\".\n\nThe introduction of prostaglandins at this point causes the degeneration of the corpus luteum and the abortion of the fetus. However, in placental animals such as humans, the placenta eventually takes over progesterone production and the corpus luteum degrades into a corpus albicans without embryo/fetus loss.\n\nLuteal support refers to the administration of medication (generally progestins) for the purpose of increasing the success of implantation and early embryogenesis, thereby complementing the function of the corpus luteum.\n\nThe yellow color and name of the corpus luteum, like that of the macula lutea of the retina, is due to its concentration of certain carotenoids, especially lutein. In 1968, a report indicated that beta-carotene was synthesized in laboratory conditions in slices of corpus luteum from cows. However, attempts have been made to replicate these findings, but have not succeeded. The idea is not presently accepted by the scientific community. Rather, the corpus luteum concentrates carotenoids from the diet of the mammal.\n\nSimilar structures and functions of the corpus luteum exist in some reptiles. Dairy cattle also follow a similar cycle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17672133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17672133", "title": "Davis Phinney Foundation", "text": "Davis Phinney Foundation\n\nThe Davis Phinney Foundation is a non-profit with a mission to help people with Parkinson's live well with the disease. It was founded in 2004 by Davis Phinney, the former professional road bicycle racer and Olympic medal winner. Phinney was diagnosed with young-onset Parkinson's disease in 2000 at the age of 40. Today, Davis is an inspirational figure in the cycling community and people living with Parkinson's (estimated 60,000 Americans and estimated 10 million worldwide).\n\nThe Foundation is a 501(c)3 public charity that functions without an endowment and depends on donations from individuals, foundations and corporations. It reaches an international audience through its programs and online programming.\n\nAs an Olympic Bronze medalist and Tour de France stage winner, Davis Phinney has celebrated the most victories of any cyclist in American history. From the late 1970s until his retirement from professional cycling in 1993, Davis achieved more wins – 328 victories in all – than any other US Cyclist. Davis is one of only three Americans who have won multiple stages of the Tour de France. Greg LeMond and Lance Armstrong are the other two.\n\nIn 2000, Davis was diagnosed with young-onset Parkinson’s disease after years of feeling “off.\" Shortly after his Parkinson’s diagnosis, Davis and his family moved to Italy. While living there, Davis was contacted by Kathleen Krumme, a cyclist who asked Davis to let her use his name in conjunction with her ride (the Sunflower Revolution) to benefit Parkinson’s. From this connection, the Davis Phinney Foundation was born.\n\nDavis realized there were many ways he could improve the quality of his daily life with Parkinson’s, including through exercise. He started the Davis Phinney Foundation as a way to fund and advance research that demonstrates the benefits of exercise, speech therapy and other behavioral elements that are critical to quality of life with Parkinson’s. It has since expanded to include a variety of programming that helps people with Parkinson’s take a more active role in their own care.\n\n\nThe Davis Phinney Foundation funds research that explores a range of factors that affect quality of life. Its primary interest is in funding research related to exercise; however, it has also funded research in depression, telemedicine, deep brain stimulation and speech. The tendency is to fund smaller, innovative studies that lead to proof of concept and greater funding from larger institutions, such as the National Institute of Health and the Michael J. Fox Foundation.\n\nThe Foundation’s grassroots fundraising initiative, The Victory Crew, raises funds and awareness for Parkinson’s disease. Victory Crew members turn all types of events and activities, from bike rides and runs, to mountain climbs, to sales of original works of art into fundraisers benefiting the Foundation. The Davis Phinney Foundation also has a Pay It Forward initiative tied to The Victory Summit symposia, wherein attendees of the free events are asked to donate in order to fund future events. Fully 81% of the Foundation’s revenue is devoted to funding program services.\n\nThe Davis Phinney Foundation is located at 4730 Table Mesa Drive, Suite J-200 Boulder, Colorado. The Foundation can be reached by telephone at 303-733-3340 or toll-free at 1-866-358-0285. Hours of operation: Monday – Friday, 9:00 am – 5:00 pm (MT).\n\n"}
{"id": "479867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479867", "title": "Disease management (agriculture)", "text": "Disease management (agriculture)\n\nIn agriculture, disease management is the practice of minimising disease in crops to increase quantity or quality of harvest yield.\n\nOrganisms that cause infectious disease in crops include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Crops can also suffer from ectoparasites including insects, mites, snails, slugs, and vertebrate animals, but these are not considered diseases.\n\n"}
{"id": "46193413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46193413", "title": "Drug abuse in Hong Kong", "text": "Drug abuse in Hong Kong\n\nIllegal drug abuse is the action of using drugs that are prohibited by the government or strictly controlled by means of prescription to alter one’s consciousness and emotions. The Hong Kong government has a zero tolerance policy against illegal drug use. Drugs such as cannabis and ecstasy, which can be considered recreational drugs in other countries are all illegal in Hong Kong.\n\nIllegal drug abuse remains one of the major problems among adolescents in Hong Kong. This trend dropped in the mid-1990s, but reappeared in the beginning of the 21st century. The increase of consumption of illegal drugs among adolescents in Hong Kong can be attributed to the global trend of recreational drug use at nightclubs and rave parties. Following the popularisation of nightclubs and rave culture in Hong Kong, the abuse of party drugs such as ecstasy and ketamine has been on the rise since 2000. This phenomenon causes a huge impact on adolescents, considering that the consumption of illegal drugs impacts both emotional and physical health, potentially causing long lasting damage.\n\nDespite Hong Kong being a relatively safe city, and the Hong Kong government’s efforts in controlling the use of illegal substances, drug abuse is still a prevailing issue in Hong Kong. Each year, more than 2000 people are reported to have taken illicit drugs for the first time. This can be attributed to Hong Kong's relatively lenient punishment for those found to have possessed illegal drugs and adolescent's receptive viewpoint regarding drug use as a normal part of leisure, as well as easy access of party drugs in club settings. Sometimes, the judge will only ask the offender to bind over or charge the offender with a fine after they are convicted.\n\nThe following substances listed, all considered illegal in Hong Kong, are in order of popularity:\n\n\nIllegal drug use in Hong Kong is regarded as a narcotics offence, and if caught penalties include imprisonment for seven years and a fine of HK$1,000,000. From the statistics of drug offences in 2015 released by The Secretary for Security, Lai Tung-Kwok, there are 1855 serious drug offences in total. 414 offences less compared to 2013 nearly 450 young adults were arrested because of serious offences, such as possession and use of illegal drugs.\n\nThere is no sufficient evidence suggesting that behavioural intervention can prevent illegal drug use. To prevent people from taking drugs in Hong Kong, there are numerous agencies such as non-government organisations and anti-drug organisations funded by the government set up to help educate the general public about the dangers of substance abuse and to help people with substance abuse problems. The Narcotics Division launched anti-drug policies and measures providing programs to strengthen Hong Kong citizens awareness of hidden problems of drug abuse. It also set up a 24-hour hotline to provide services and professional social workers to give suggestions to those in need. The Caritas Youth and Community Service, and Play Safe Healthy Life Service strive to help adolescents with substance abuse problems through providing crisis intervention services and drug education.\n\nRecreational drug use is characterised by the use of drugs with psychoactive effects without medical justification for personal enjoyment. Recreational drug use in Hong Kong among young adults has been in the rise in recent decades, popularised by the introduction of club culture in the West and adolescents open-minded attitude towards illegal drug use as a normal part of leisure. The revival of this trend is connected to the change in drug abuse pattern of adolescents, mainly from party drugs such as ketamine and MDMA. The popularisation of party drugs in nightclubs and raves are due to its ability to elevate moods, promoting the dancing atmosphere and a sense of euphoria. Along with MDMA and ketamine, cannabis, cocaine and GHB is considered the more popular illegal drug of choice for adolescents. 78% of adolescents attending nightclubs chose ketamine and 66% would use MDMA, and less than 12% would use other drugs such as cannabis and methamphetamine.\n\n"}
{"id": "57386068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57386068", "title": "Epigenetic effects of smoking", "text": "Epigenetic effects of smoking\n\nCigarette smoking has been found to affect global epigenetic regulation of transcription across tissue types. Studies have shown differences in epigenetic markers like DNA methylation, histone modifications and miRNA expression between smokers and non-smokers. Similar differences exist in children whose mothers smoked during pregnancy. These epigenetic effects are thought to be linked to many of negative health effects associated with smoking.\n\nIt has been well established that smoking cigarettes has a number of negative health effects, including increased risk for cancer, cardiovascular disease, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Children exposed prenatally to cigarette smoke demonstrate increased risk for fetal growth restriction, sudden infant death syndrome, and addictive behaviors later in life, as well as a host of other secondary health effects. It is thought that epigenetic changes that arise from smoking cigarettes or exposure to cigarette smoke play a role in the development of these conditions.\n\nEpigenetic modifications to the genome, including histone modifications, DNA methylation, and the modulation of RNAi, are major epigenetic events used to modulate gene expression. When the epigenome of an organism is altered by an environmental cue like smoking, gene expression changes accordingly. Changes in the regulation of critical genes can have disastrous consequences on health and quality of life. Irregular gene expression is one of the hallmarks of cancer, but is also found in a number of diseases and disorders.\n\nOne of the most prominent and well studied epigenetic consequences of cigarette smoke is altered DNA methylation. Cigarette smoke acts through a number of mechanisms to effect this, chief among these being smoke induced damage to the DNA and altered expression levels of proteins involved in DNA methylation and transcriptional regulation.\n\nChemicals in smoke can damage DNA, which subsequently leads to changes in DNA methylation during the repair process. Damage typically comes in the form of double-strand breaks that are linked to carcinogens like arsenic, chromium, formaldehyde, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and nitrosamines which are found in cigarette smoke. DNMT1 is the enzyme involved in the maintenance of DNA methylation marks. DNMT1 is recruited to DNA during its replication, or during DNA repair. As a new DNA strand is synthesized, unmethylated cytosines are incorporated into the sequence. This leads to hemimethylated DNA, where an older methylated strand is bound to a younger unmethylated one. \n\nDNMT1 is an enzyme which recognizes and corrects hemimethylation by transferring the appropriate methyl groups to the newly synthesized strand. Like all biological processes, DNMT1 based hemimethylation correction is not perfect. Mistakes in hemimethylation correction can occur, and are more likely to appear the more a DNA sequence is replicated or repaired. This is compounded by the fact that cigarette smoke compromises the expression\nand activity of DNMT1. The end result is a decrease in the body's ability to maintain proper methylation patterns, leading to misexpression of genes.\n\nExposure to cigarette smoke impacts proteins involved in DNA methylation. These effects come from either hypoxia induced by the cigarette smoke, or the chemical consequences of nicotine.\nInhaling cigarette smoke increases blood levels of carbon monoxide which negatively affects oxygenation throughout the body leading to hypoxia. One response to hypoxia is the upregulation in synthesis of the major methyl donor S-adenosylmethionine. Upregulation of this methyl donor through heightened expression of methionine adenosyltransferase 2A leads to increased DNA methylation, which can lead to the down-regulation of target genes. \nNicotine found in cigarette smoke binds to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. \n\nThis binding leads to an increase in calcium levels which in turn can activate the cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) transcription factor. The most striking downstream effect of the upregulation of this transcription factor is the downregulation of the DNMT1 gene, which has a cAMP response element in its promoter. This down-regulation of DNMT1 can have serious consequences on DNA methylation, namely a failure to maintain normal methylation patterns during DNA replication and repair. The upregulation of DNMT3b has also been shown to occur as a result of cigarette exposure. \n\nDNMT3b is thought to be critical to de novo methylation, or the production of new methylation marks on DNA. This increased expression of DNMT3b and methionine adenosyltransferase 2A, taken together with the down-regulation of DNMT1, results in myriad unintended epigenetic consequences.\n\nSp1, a transcription factor that plays a crucial role in early development, was shown to be expressed at higher rates in lung epithelial cells in the presence of cigarette-smoke condensate. This is relevant because Sp1 binds to GC-rich promoter regions which prevent the methylation of these regions during embryonic development. Increased Sp1 expression can lead to a global reduction in DNA methylation, leading to a number of downstream health effects in developing embryos exposed to maternal cigarette smoke.\n\nRegardless of mechanism, several known differences in DNA methylation have been observed between smokers and non-smokers. An overall average decrease in DNA methylation is observed, leading to an increase in the expression of a number of genes. Several genes known to be affected by differential methylation are the CYP1A1 xenobiotic response element, AHRR, and F2RL3. CYP1A1 is critical to the detoxification of carcinogens, and is found to be hypomethylated in frequent smokers. AHRR and F2RL3 are similarly hypomethylated in smokers.\n\nAHRR is known to inhibit the aryl hydrocarbon receptor, which is important to metabolizing harmful chemicals. The resultant increase in AHRR expression could lead to a decrease in the body's ability to break down carcinogens, increasing the risk of cancer. F2RL3 is known to be involved in blood clotting and the inflammation response. Effects on the regulation of F2RL3 in particular could be a link between epigenetic changes from smoking and increased risk of heart disease. Time specific changes in methylation of D4Z4 and NBL2 repeats, which are known factors in carcinogenesis, have also been observed.\n\nThough smoking leads to an overall decrease in DNA methylation, several critical genes become hypermethylated. Two of the most noteworthy of these genes are p16 and p53. These genes are critical to cell cycle regulation and were shown to have higher levels of methylation in smokers than in non smokers. The subsequent loss of function of these genes could potentially lead to dysregulation of the cell cycle, wherein cells are able to bypass normal growth impeding signals. Ultimately, uncontrolled cellular divisions and failure to properly regulate the cell cycle leads to cancer.\n\nFetuses exposed in utero to cigarette smoke are also known to have some distinct epigenetic differences from smoke-free cohorts. CYP1A1 was found to be hypomethylated in the placentas of fetuses prenatally exposed to cigarette smoke, along with the transposable element AluYB8. Methylation of transposable elements is one of the primary ways they are prevented from replicating or moving within the genome. Similarly observed hypomethylation in a number of Alu elements results in a general decrease in genomic stability and an increase in the risk of cancer from mutation resulting from the random insertion of transposable elements. \n\nStrikingly, BDNF appears to be hypermethylated in children who were exposed to smoke prenatally. BDNF is critical to long term memory formation and the upkeep of neurons. Downregulation of BDNF has also been linked to clinical depression. Taken as a whole, the epigentic consequences of prenatal exposure to cigarette smoke result in increased metabolic stress, decreased genomic stability, heightened risk of mutation and altered brain development.\n\nHistone modifications are another epigenetic phenomenon known to be affected by smoking. Cigarette smoke has been observed to globally alter histone modifications near the promoter regions of pro-inflammatory genes, mainly through an overall increase in acetylation. Cigarette smoke can alter histone acetylation through a number of pathways. Chief among these is the degradation of HDAC2, thereby preventing the removal of acetylation marks in affected cells. The degradation of this enzyme results from phosphorylation and subsequent ubiquitination induced by cigarette smoke.\n\nIn rat and mouse models, cigarette smoke was observed to increase acetylation of lysine 9 on histone H3 (H3K9), lysine 12 on histone H4 (H4K12) and phosphorylation of serine 10 on histone H3 (H3S10). These marks are associated with an increase in gene expression and prevent the accumulation of repressive histone modifications. Mechanistically, the increased frequency of these marks, especially the modifications on histone H3, are linked to the activation of IKK-α which directly phosphorylates histone H3 as a consequence of exposure to cigarette smoke. It is thought that this increase in acetylation of histones H3 and H4 in macrophages in the alveolus could potentially lead to the development of COPD.\n\nMicroRNAs, or miRNAs, are known to be major epigenetic regulators of gene expression in humans. These RNAs are short molecules which bind to mRNA through complementary base pairing. This binding impacts the expression of proteins encoded by those mRNAs by either inducing the cleavage of the mRNA, destabilizing the molecule, or limiting the efficiency of its translation. Unlike differences in DNA methylation, changes in miRNA activity induced by cigarette smoke are largely unknown. Primary research data suggests that cigarette smoke promotes the dysregulation of a number of miRNA's. One such study showed that cigarette smoke downregulates miR-16, miR-21, and miR-146a in the placenta. \n\nA downregulation of miR-16 is predicted to inhibit apoptosis via the subsequent upregulation of BCL2L2 and EDA, both of which contribute to anti-apoptotic signaling. Downregulaton of miR-146a is predicted to influence the expression of TRAF6, which has a number of downstream effects, including regulation of inflammatory responses and anti-apoptotic signaling. Taken as a whole, dysregulation of these miRNA's could lead to dysregulation of normal cell death, cell cycling and immune responses, all of which have negative health impacts and could potentially lead to cancerous growths and improper placental formation.\n\n"}
{"id": "7506071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7506071", "title": "Fairweather Lodge", "text": "Fairweather Lodge\n\nThe Fairweather Lodge Program is a psychosocial rehabilitation model in which residents live together and run or participate in a business that provides them with employment. As of 2006, there were over 90 Fairweather Lodges in 16 US states.\n\nThe Fairweather Lodge Program was developed by psychologist George Fairweather in California in 1963. Fairweather found that patients with serious and persistent mental illness were less likely to require rehospitalization (i.e., \"community tenure\" is longer)when they lived and worked together in the community as a group, rather than individually.\n\nA “Fairweather Lodge” is a home that offers support for adults with mental illness. The Lodge setting is shared, independent housing and can be offered either short-term or long-term, depending on the needs and desires of the individual. Lodge members are active, productive men and women who share the responsibilities of household management and support each other in recovery. This interdependence relies on the skills and competencies of each individual and utilizes them to create a family style of living. By residing together, each member’s potential standard of living can be greatly improved through companionship, shared expenses and mutual peer support. A Lodge managed by its members through group decision-making. While staff, provided by a sponsoring agency, may serve as advisors and be available in emergencies, on-site staffing is very limited. \nThe Fairweather Lodge model also includes an employment component, with the understanding that participation in gainful employment supports mental health recovery. To provide employment, a Lodge may run a small business chosen by member consensus and jointly planned. Alternatively, the sponsoring agency may provide employment to Lodge residents through its own business initiatives.\n\n1. The lodge must provide the residents a safe, healthy and caring environment that reinforces the recovery process. \n\n2. The lodge must be a part of the overall plan for managing the residents' mental health symptoms and promoting good mental health.\n\n3. The sponsor must provide services to the residents as long as they want and need them. The lodge must allow open entry and exit for the residents.\n4. Residents with psychiatric disabilities can increase their community success and raise their social status through employment, through accumulating wealth and through direct consumerism. \n\n5. Aside from their roles in the lodge business, residents need to have meaningful roles in the larger community.\n\n6. A successful lodge resembles a family. \n\n7. In order to progress, residents with psychiatric disabilities need autonomy that is commensurate with their abilities with the ultimate goal is full autonomy. The lodge must provide its residents with as much autonomy as possible. \n\n8. The lodge must not depend on resources from any single entity, or on the philanthropy of its host community.\n\nThe Coalition for Community Living (CCL) is a national organization that promotes the Fairweather Lodge model and monitors the lodge programs. \n\nEach quarter, the CCL collects outcome data on each lodge to determine if it can be certified as a Fairweather Lodge. The outcome measures gauge adherence to the Faiweather principles and are designed to track meaningful quality of life indicators, such as safety and desirability of housing, access to quality mental health services, employment and earnings, healthy lifestyle and community belonging and personal autonomy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19733932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19733932", "title": "Firmin Monestime", "text": "Firmin Monestime\n\nSaint-Firmin (S. F.) Monestime (December 16, 1909 – October 27, 1977) was a Haitian-Canadian politician and medical doctor, who was the first Black Canadian elected mayor of a Canadian municipality.\n\nBorn in Cap-Haïtien in 1909, Monestime studied rural medicine and wrote three books on the subject. In 1937, he was one of the only doctors on duty during the Parsley Massacre, and was subsequently awarded the Haitian Legion of Merit for his work during that crisis.\n\nHe moved to Quebec City in the 1940s. After upgrading his medical training he planned a move to Timmins, Ontario to set up a medical practice, but when he stopped in Mattawa en route, he was convinced by a restaurant owner to stay in that town and set up practice there instead. He married Zena Petschersky, an immigrant from Danzig, whom he met in Ottawa in 1953.\n\nMonestime practiced medicine in Mattawa until 1964, when he was elected the town's mayor. Except for one year that he took off for personal reasons, he remained mayor until his death in 1977.\n\nMonestime was active with the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada, and served as its national director. He considered running federally for the party, and in 1971 he ran and lost in a bid for the presidency of the party. A Red Tory, Monestime was attracted to the party because of Prime Minister John Diefenbaker's Bill of Rights.\n\nOn February 29, 1976, Monestime's 21-year-old son, Fedia, was shot and killed outside the Trans-Canada Hotel in Mattawa. He was in a group chasing a man who had fired his rifle into the wall after a bar fight, when the man fired on them, also injuring three others. Ralph Childerhose was charged with murder and acquitted, a decision Monestime considered unjust.\n\nMonestime and his wife established a nursing home in Mattawa in 1975. His daughter Vala Monestime Belter continues to run the home today, and has served on the boards of Ontario Northland and TVOntario.\n\nIn 2014, Frantz Liautaud, the current ambassador of Haiti to Canada, visited Mattawa for a gala celebration of the 50th anniversary of Monestime's first election as mayor.\n"}
{"id": "3093923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3093923", "title": "Friedrich von Esmarch", "text": "Friedrich von Esmarch\n\nJohannes Friedrich August von Esmarch (9 January 1823 – 23 February 1908) was a German surgeon. He developed the Esmarch bandage and founded the \"Deutscher Samariter-Verein\", the predecessor of the \"Deutscher Samariter-Bund\".\n\nEsmarch was born in Tönning, Schleswig-Holstein. He studied at Kiel and Göttingen, and in 1846 became Bernhard Rudolf Konrad von Langenbeck's assistant at the Kiel surgical hospital. He served in the Schleswig-Holstein War of 1848 as junior surgeon, and this directed his attention to the subject of military surgery. He was taken prisoner, but afterwards exchanged, and was then appointed as surgeon to a field hospital. During the truce of 1849 he qualified as \"Privatdocent\" at Kiel, but on the fresh outbreak of war he returned to the troops and was promoted to the rank of senior surgeon.\n\nIn 1854 Esmarch became director of the surgical clinic at Kiel, and in 1857 head of the general hospital and professor at the University of Kiel. During the Schleswig-Holstein War of 1864, Esmarch rendered good service to the field hospitals of Flensburg, Sundewitt and Kiel. In 1866 he was called to Berlin as member of the hospital commission, and also to take the superintendence of the surgical work in the hospitals there. When the Franco-Prussian War broke out in 1870, he was appointed surgeon-general to the army, and afterwards consulting surgeon at the great military hospital near Berlin.\n\nIn 1872 Esmarch married Princess Caroline Christiane Auguste Emilie Henriette Elisabeth of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Augustenburg (1833–1917), aunt of Empress Augusta Viktoria. In 1887 a patent of nobility was conferred on Esmarch. He died at Kiel.\n\nEsmarch was one of the greatest authorities on hospital management and military surgery. His \"Handbuch der kriegschirurgischen Technik\" was written for a prize offered by the empress Augusta, on the occasion of the Vienna Exhibition of 1877, for the best handbook for the battlefield of surgical appliances and operations. This book is illustrated by admirable diagrams, showing the different methods of bandaging and dressing, as well as the surgical operations as they occur on the battlefield. Esmarch himself invented an apparatus, which bears his name, for keeping a limb nearly bloodless during amputation.\n\nNo part of Esmarch's work is more widely known than that which deals with First Aid, his \"First Aid on the Battlefield\" and \"First Aid to the Injured\" being popular manuals on the subject. The latter is the substance of a course of lectures delivered by him in 1881 to a Samaritan School, the first of the kind in Germany, founded by Esmarch in 1881, in imitation of the St John Ambulance classes which had been organized in England in 1878. These lectures were very generally adopted as a manual for first aid students, edition after edition having been called for, and they have been translated into numerous languages, the English version being the work of HRH Princess Christian.\n\nNo ambulance course would be complete without a demonstration of the Esmarch bandage. It is a three-sided piece of linen or cotton, of which the base measures 4 feet and the sides 2 feet 10 inches. It can be used folded or open, and applied in thirty-two different ways. It answers every purpose for temporary dressing and field-work, while its great recommendation is that the means for making it are always at hand.\n\n"}
{"id": "6230660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6230660", "title": "Functional training", "text": "Functional training\n\nFunctional training is a classification of exercise which involves training the body for the activities performed in daily life.\n\nFunctional training has its origins in rehabilitation. Physical and occupational therapists and chiropractors often use this approach to retrain patients with movement disorders. Interventions are designed to incorporate task and context specific practice in areas meaningful to each patient, with an overall goal of functional independence. For example, exercises that mimic what patients did at home or work may be included in treatment in order to help them return to their lives or jobs after an injury or surgery. Thus if a patient's job required repeatedly heavy lifting, rehabilitation would be targeted towards heavy lifting, if the patient were a parent of young children, it would be targeted towards moderate lifting and endurance, and if the patient were a marathon runner, training would be targeted towards re-building endurance. However, treatments are designed after careful consideration of the patient’s condition, what he or she would like to achieve, and ensuring goals of treatment are realistic and achievable.\n\nFunctional training attempts to adapt or develop exercises which allow individuals to perform the activities of daily life more easily and without injuries.\n\nIn the context of body building, functional training involves mainly weight bearing activities targeted at core muscles of the abdomen and lower back. Fabio Martella wrote that most fitness facilities have a variety of weight training machines which target and isolate specific muscles. As a result, the movements do not necessarily bear any relationship to the movements people make in their regular activities or sports.\n\nIn rehabilitation, training does not necessarily have to involve weight bearing activities, but can target any task or a combination of tasks that a patient is having difficulty with. Balance training, for example, is often incorporated into a patient’s treatment plan if it has been impaired after injury or disease.\n\nRehabilitation after stroke has evolved over the past 15 years from conventional treatment techniques to task specific training techniques which involve training of basic functions, skills and endurance (muscular and cardiovascular). Functional training has been well supported in evidenced based research for rehabilitation of this population. It has been shown that task specific training yields long-lasting cortical reorganization which is specific to the areas of the brain being used with each task. Studies have also shown that patients make larger gains in functional tasks used in their rehabilitation and since they are more likely to continue practicing these tasks in everyday living, better results during follow-up are obtained.\n\nSome options include:\nIn rehabilitation however, equipment is mainly chosen by its relevance to the patient. In many cases equipment needs are minimal and include things that are familiar and useful to the patient.\n\nCable machines, also known as pulley machines, are large upright machines, either with a single pulley, or else a pulley attached to both sides. They allow an athlete to recruit all major muscle groups while moving in multiple planes. Cable machines also provide a smooth, continuous action which reduces the need for momentum to start repetitions, provide a constant tension on the muscle, peak-contraction is possible at the top of each rep, a safe means of performing negative repetitions, and a variety of attachments that allow great flexibility in the exercises performed and body parts targeted.\n\nTo be effective, a functional exercise program should include a number of different elements which can be adapted to an individual's needs or goals:\n"}
{"id": "48617116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48617116", "title": "Guenther Boden", "text": "Guenther Boden\n\nGuenther Boden (January 8, 1935 – October 13, 2015) was a German-born American endocrinologist and diabetes researcher who helped link insulin resistance with fatty acids in the blood. Dr. Boden was born in Ludwigshafen, Germany on January 8, 1935. He received an M.S. from Heidelberg University in 1956 and an M.D. from Munich University, School of Medicine in 1959. Dr. Boden completed a doctoral thesis at the Max Planck Institute for Psychiatry in Munich in 1960. Dr. Boden completed a postdoctoral fellowship in biochemistry at Tuebingen University in Germany in 1965. He then continued his medical practice and studies in the United States. Dr. Boden was a research fellow in Medicine at the E.P. Joslin Research Laboratory, Harvard Medical School from 1965-1967, where he also served as Assistant in Medicine at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts. He then assumed the position of Assistant and Associate Resident in Medicine at Rochester General Hospital.\n\nIn 1970, Dr. Boden arrived at Temple University Hospital in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, as an Assistant Professor of Medicine. Dr. Boden spent the next 45 years at Temple University Hospital, serving as the Chief, Section of Diabetes and Metabolism; Chief, Division of Endocrinology/Metabolism and Program Director of the General Clinical Research Center, among other positions. Dr. Boden was the recipient of numerous awards and honors and served on the editorial boards of many academic journals, including the Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism, Clinical Diabetes and Diabetes, to name a few. He was a prolific speaker and author on topics relating to diabetes and metabolism, having published more than 230 articles and written more than 50 chapters in peer-reviewed journals and medical books.\n"}
{"id": "31692600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31692600", "title": "Health in Malawi", "text": "Health in Malawi\n\nMalawi ranks 170th out of 174 in the World Health Organization lifespan tables; 88% of the population live on less than £2.40 per day; and 50% are below the poverty line. \n\nIn 2011, the University of Malawi released an article by Cameron Bowie that listed the following as the top ten causes of death in Malawi.\n\n\nThe 2014 CIA estimated average life expectancy in Malawi was 59.99 years.\n\nIn 2014 Malawi had a total fertility rate of 5.26 children born/woman.\n\nThere is a high degree of risk for major infectious diseases, including bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, hepatitis A, typhoid fever, malaria, plague, schistosomiasis and rabies.\n\nIn 2013 Malawi had a HIV/AIDS adult prevalence rate of 11%. In 2013 there were 920,000 people living with HIV/AIDS, and 51,000 AIDS related deaths.\n\nDue to the vast scope of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, many Malawian men believe that HIV contraction and death from AIDS are inevitable. Older men in particular often claim that the HIV/AIDS epidemic is a punishment issued by God or other supernatural forces. Other men refer to their own irresponsible sexual behaviors when explaining why they believe that death from AIDS is inevitable.\nThese men sometimes claim that unprotected sex is natural (and therefore necessary and good) when justifying their lack of condom use during sex with extramarital partners. Finally, some men identify as HIV-positive without having undergone testing for HIV, preferring to believe that they have already been infected so they can avoid adopting undesirable preventative measures such as condom use or strict fidelity. Because of these fatalistic beliefs, many men continue engaging in extramarital sexual relations despite the prevalence of HIV/AIDS in Malawi.\n\nHowever, despite these widespread feelings of fatalism, some men believe that they can avoid HIV contraction by modifying their personal behaviors. Men who decide to change their behaviors to reduce their risk of infection are unlikely to use condoms consistently, particularly during marital intercourse; instead, they usually continue engaging in extramarital sexual relations, but alter the ways in which they choose their sexual partners.\n\nFor example, before selecting extramarital sexual partners, men sometimes survey their peers to determine whether their potential partners are likely to have exposed themselves to the virus. Men who choose their sexual partners based on external appearances and peer recommendations often believe that women who violate traditional gender norms by, for example, wearing modern clothing are more likely to carry HIV, while young girls, who are perceived as sexually inexperienced, are considered \"pure\". Because of this perception, many people are concerned that schoolchildren in Malawi, particularly girls, are becoming exposed to the virus through sexual harassment or abuse by their instructors.\n\nThe CIA World Fact Book's \"country comparison to the world\" ranking indicates how Malawi's health indicators compare to other countries in the world. Since the first case of HIV/AIDS in Malawi in 1985, HIV/AIDS has drastically affected Malawi's health indicators.\nMalawi's rankings:\n\nMalaria affects numerous aspects of social and economic life in Malawi. High malaria prevalence affects fertility, savings and investment rates, crop choices, schooling and migration decisions. There are a wide variety of cost-effective approaches to reduce the burden of malaria. Some current intervention tactics include case management, the use of insecticide-treated bed nets, indoor residual spraying, and environmental vector control measures such as larvaciding (controlling mosquitoes at the larval stage through the use of chemicals) and filling and draining of breeding sites. Each of these interventions has proven to have a high value of health gains achieved per dollar. More specifically, mosquito nets are one of the most effective and widely used approaches. They are most effective in that they require a minimal amount of resource input and result in a large decrease in the prevalence of Malaria.\n\nIn their article titled \"The Economic and Social Burden of Malaria\", Pia Malaney and Jeffrey Sachs present an argument for the prominent social theory regarding the intimate relationship between disease prevalence and poverty. They state that where malaria prospers most, human societies have prospered least. In Poor Economics authors Banerjee and Duflo explain how poor healthcare contributes to the poverty trap. That is, inadequacies of Malawi's healthcare lead to an increased prevalence of disease and other health issues, which, in turn, results in increased poverty incidence.\n\nA comparison of income in malarious and non-malarious countries indicates that average GDP (adjusted to give purchasing power parity (PPP)) in malarious countries in 1995 was US$1,526, compared with US$8,268 in countries without intensive malaria – more than a fivefold difference. According to Jaimeson, effective intervention at the level of healthcare provision will have the greatest rate of return in the form of improved health.\n\nIn 2013, Malawi had an infant mortality rate of 76.98 deaths/1,000 live births.\n\n"}
{"id": "8695082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8695082", "title": "Health policy", "text": "Health policy\n\nHealth policy can be defined as the \"decisions, plans, and actions that are undertaken to achieve specific healthcare goals within a society\". According to the World Health Organization, an explicit health policy can achieve several things: it defines a vision for the future; it outlines priorities and the expected roles of different groups; and it builds consensus and informs people.\n\nThere are many categories of health policies, including global health policy, public health policy, mental health policy, health care services policy, insurance policy, personal healthcare policy, pharmaceutical policy, and policies related to public health such as vaccination policy, tobacco control policy or breastfeeding promotion policy. They may cover topics of financing and delivery of healthcare, access to care, quality of care, and health equity.\n\nHealth-related policy and its implementation is complex. Conceptual models can help show the flow from health-related policy development to health-related policy and program implementation and to health systems and health outcomes. Policy should be understood as more than a national law or health policy that supports a program or intervention. Operational policies are the rules, regulations, guidelines, and administrative norms that governments use to translate national laws and policies into programs and services. The policy process encompasses decisions made at a national or decentralized level (including funding decisions) that affect whether and how services are delivered. Thus, attention must be paid to policies at multiple levels of the health system and over time to ensure sustainable scale-up. A supportive policy environment will facilitate the scale-up of health interventions.\n\nThere are many topics in the politics and evidence that can influence the decision of a government, private sector business or other group to adopt a specific policy. Evidence-based policy relies on the use of science and rigorous studies such as randomized controlled trials to identify programs and practices capable of improving policy relevant outcomes. Most political debates surround personal health care policies, especially those that seek to reform healthcare delivery, and can typically be categorized as either philosophical or economic. Philosophical debates center around questions about individual rights, ethics and government authority, while economic topics include how to maximize the efficiency of health care delivery and minimize costs.\n\nThe modern concept of healthcare involves access to medical professionals from various fields as well as medical technology, such as medications and surgical equipment. It also involves access to the latest information and evidence from research, including medical research and health services research.\n\nIn many countries it is left to the individual to gain access to healthcare goods and services by paying for them directly as out-of-pocket expenses, and to private sector players in the medical and pharmaceutical industries to develop research. Planning and production of health human resources is distributed among labour market participants.\n\nOther countries have an explicit policy to ensure and support access for all of its citizens, to fund health research, and to plan for adequate numbers, distribution and quality of health workers to meet healthcare goals. Many governments around the world have established universal health care, which takes the burden of healthcare expenses off of private businesses or individuals through pooling of financial risk. There are a variety of arguments for and against universal healthcare and related health policies. Healthcare is an important part of health systems and therefore it often accounts for one of the largest areas of spending for both governments and individuals all over the world.\n\nMany countries and jurisdictions integrate a human rights philosophy in directing their healthcare policies. The World Health Organization reports that every country in the world is party to at least one human rights treaty that addresses health-related rights, including the right to health as well as other rights that relate to conditions necessary for good health. The United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) asserts that medical care is a right of all people:\n\nIn some jurisdictions and among different faith-based organizations, health policies are influenced by the perceived obligation shaped by religious beliefs to care for those in less favorable circumstances, including the sick. Other jurisdictions and non-governmental organizations draw on the principles of humanism in defining their health policies, asserting the same perceived obligation and enshrined right to health. In recent years, the worldwide human rights organization Amnesty International has focused on health as a human right, addressing inadequate access to HIV drugs and women's sexual and reproductive rights including wide disparities in maternal mortality within and across countries. Such increasing attention to health as a basic human right has been welcomed by the leading medical journal \"The Lancet\".\n\nThere remains considerable controversy regarding policies on who would be paying the costs of medical care for all people and under what circumstances. For example, government spending on healthcare is sometimes used as a global indicator of a government's commitment to the health of its people. On the other hand, one school of thought emerging from the United States rejects the notion of health care financing through taxpayer funding as incompatible with the (considered no less important) right of the physician's professional judgment, and the related concerns that government involvement in overseeing the health of its citizens could erode the right to privacy between doctors and patients. The argument furthers that universal health insurance denies the right of individual patients to dispose of their own income as per their own will.\n\nAnother issue in the rights debate is governments' use of legislation to control competition among private medical insurance providers against national social insurance systems, such as the case in Canada's national health insurance program. Laissez-faire supporters argue that this erodes the cost-effectiveness of the health system, as even those who can afford to pay for private healthcare services drain resources from the public system. The issue here is whether investor-owned medical insurance companies or health maintenance organizations are in a better position to act in the best interests of their customers compared to government regulation and oversight. Another claim in the United States perceives government over-regulation of the healthcare and insurance industries as the effective end of charitable home visits from doctors among the poor and elderly.\n\nMany types of health policies exist focusing on the financing of healthcare services to spread the economic risks of ill health. These include publicly funded health care (through taxation or insurance, also known as single-payer systems), mandatory or voluntary private health insurance, and complete capitalization of personal health care services through private companies, among others. The debate is ongoing on which type of health financing policy results in better or worse quality of healthcare services provided, and how to ensure allocated funds are used effectively, efficiently and equitably.\n\nThere are many arguments on both sides of the issue of public versus private health financing policies:\n\nClaims that publicly funded healthcare improves the quality and efficiency of personal health care delivery:\n\nClaims that privately funded healthcare leads to greater quality and efficiencies in personal health care:\n\nHealth policy options extend beyond the financing and delivery of personal health care, to domains such as medical research and health workforce planning, both domestically and internationally.\n\nMedical research can be both the basis for defining evidence-based health policy, and the subject of health policy itself, particularly in terms of its sources of funding. Those in favor of government policies for publicly funded medical research posit that removing profit as a motive will increase the rate of medical innovation. Those opposed argue that it will do the opposite, because removing the incentive of profit removes incentives to innovate and inhibits new technologies from being developed and utilized.\n\nThe existence of sound medical research does not necessarily lead to evidence-based policymaking. For example, in South Africa, whose population sets the record for HIV infections, previous government policy limiting funding and access for AIDS treatments met with strong controversy given its basis on a refusal to accept scientific evidence on the means of transmission. A change of government eventually led to a change in policy, with new policies implemented for widespread access to HIV services. Another issue relates to intellectual property, as illustrated by the case of Brazil, where debates have arisen over government policy authorizing the domestic manufacture of antiretroviral drugs used in the treatment of HIV/AIDS in violation of drug patents.\n\nSome countries and jurisdictions have an explicit policy or strategy to plan for adequate numbers, distribution and quality of health workers to meet healthcare goals, such as to address physician and nursing shortages. Elsewhere, workforce planning is distributed among labour market participants as a laissez-faire approach to health policy. Evidence-based policies for workforce development are typically based on findings from health services research.\n\nMany governments and agencies include a health dimension in their foreign policy in order to achieve global health goals. Promoting health in lower income countries has been seen as instrumental to achieve other goals on the global agenda, including:\n\nGlobal health policy encompasses the global governance structures that create the policies underlying public health throughout the world. In addressing global health, global health policy \"implies consideration of the health needs of the people of the whole planet above the concerns of particular nations.\" Distinguished from both international health policy (agreements among sovereign states) and comparative health policy (analysis of health policy across states), global health policy institutions consist of the actors and norms that frame the global health response.\n\n"}
{"id": "21338436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21338436", "title": "Human Fertility (Cambridge)", "text": "Human Fertility (Cambridge)\n\nHuman Fertility is one of two academic journals with this title. Both journals deal with topics regarding human reproduction. This journal is published by the British Fertility Society.\n"}
{"id": "7200558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7200558", "title": "Impact of nanotechnology", "text": "Impact of nanotechnology\n\nThe impact of nanotechnology extends from its medical, ethical, mental, legal and environmental applications, to fields such as engineering, biology, chemistry, computing, materials science, and communications.\n\nMajor benefits of nanotechnology include improved manufacturing methods, water purification systems, energy systems, physical enhancement, nanomedicine, better food production methods, nutrition and large-scale infrastructure auto-fabrication. Nanotechnology's reduced size may allow for automation of tasks which were previously inaccessible due to physical restrictions, which in turn may reduce labor, land, or maintenance requirements placed on humans.\n\nPotential risks include environmental, health, and safety issues; transitional effects such as displacement of traditional industries as the products of nanotechnology become dominant, which are of concern to privacy rights advocates. These may be particularly important if potential negative effects of nanoparticles are overlooked.\n\nWhether nanotechnology merits special government regulation is a controversial issue. Regulatory bodies such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the Health and Consumer Protection Directorate of the European Commission have started dealing with the potential risks of nanoparticles. The organic food sector has been the first to act with the regulated exclusion of engineered nanoparticles from certified organic produce, firstly in Australia and the UK, and more recently in Canada, as well as for all food certified to Demeter International standards\n\nThe presence of nanomaterials (materials that contain nanoparticles) is not in itself a threat. It is only certain aspects that can make them risky, in particular their mobility and their increased reactivity. Only if certain properties of certain nanoparticles were harmful to living beings or the environment would we be faced with a genuine hazard. In this case it can be called nanopollution.\n\nIn addressing the health and environmental impact of nanomaterials we need to differentiate between two types of nanostructures: (1) Nanocomposites, nanostructured surfaces and nanocomponents (electronic, optical, sensors etc.), where nanoscale particles are incorporated into a substance, material or device (“fixed” nano-particles); and (2) “free” nanoparticles, where at some stage in production or use individual nanoparticles of a substance are present. These free nanoparticles could be nanoscale species of elements, or simple compounds, but also complex compounds where for instance a nanoparticle of a particular element is coated with another substance (“coated” nanoparticle or “core-shell” nanoparticle).\n\nThere seems to be consensus that, although one should be aware of materials containing fixed nanoparticles, the immediate concern is with free nanoparticles.\n\nNanoparticles are very different from their everyday counterparts, so their adverse effects cannot be derived from the known toxicity of the macro-sized material. This poses significant issues for addressing the health and environmental impact of free nanoparticles.\n\nTo complicate things further, in talking about nanoparticles it is important that a powder or liquid containing nanoparticles almost never be monodisperse, but contain instead a range of particle sizes. This complicates the experimental analysis as larger nanoparticles might have different properties from smaller ones. Also, nanoparticles show a tendency to aggregate, and such aggregates often behave differently from individual nanoparticles.\n\nThe health impacts of nanotechnology are the possible effects that the use of nanotechnological materials and devices will have on human health. As nanotechnology is an emerging field, there is great debate regarding to what extent nanotechnology will benefit or pose risks for human health. Nanotechnology's health impacts can be split into two aspects: the potential for nanotechnological innovations to have medical applications to cure disease, and the potential health hazards posed by exposure to nanomaterials.\n\nNanomedicine is the medical application of nanotechnology. The approaches to nanomedicine range from the medical use of nanomaterials, to nanoelectronic biosensors, and even possible future applications of molecular nanotechnology. Nanomedicine seeks to deliver a valuable set of research tools and clinically helpful devices in the near future. The National Nanotechnology Initiative expects new commercial applications in the pharmaceutical industry that may include advanced drug delivery systems, new therapies, and in vivo imaging. Neuro-electronic interfaces and other nanoelectronics-based sensors are another active goal of research. Further down the line, the speculative field of molecular nanotechnology believes that cell repair machines could revolutionize medicine and the medical field.\n\nNanomedicine research is directly funded, with the US National Institutes of Health in 2005 funding a five-year plan to set up four nanomedicine centers. In April 2006, the journal Nature Materials estimated that 130 nanotech-based drugs and delivery systems were being developed worldwide. Nanomedicine is a large industry, with nanomedicine sales reaching $6.8 billion in 2004. With over 200 companies and 38 products worldwide, a minimum of $3.8 billion in nanotechnology R&D is being invested every year. As the nanomedicine industry continues to grow, it is expected to have a significant impact on the economy.\n\nNanotoxicology is the field which studies potential health risks of nanomaterials. The extremely small size of nanomaterials means that they are much more readily taken up by the human body than larger sized particles. How these nanoparticles behave inside the organism is one of the significant issues that needs to be resolved. The behavior of nanoparticles is a function of their size, shape and surface reactivity with the surrounding tissue. Apart from what happens if non-degradable or slowly degradable nanoparticles accumulate in organs, another concern is their potential interaction with biological processes inside the body: because of their large surface, nanoparticles on exposure to tissue and fluids will immediately adsorb onto their surface some of the macromolecules they encounter. The large number of variables influencing toxicity means that it is difficult to generalise about health risks associated with exposure to nanomaterials – each new nanomaterial must be assessed individually and all material properties must be taken into account. Health and environmental issues combine in the workplace of companies engaged in producing or using nanomaterials and in the laboratories engaged in nanoscience and nanotechnology research. It is safe to say that current workplace exposure standards for dusts cannot be applied directly to nanoparticle dusts.\n\nThe extremely small size of nanomaterials also means that they are much more readily taken up by the human body than larger sized particles. How these nanoparticles behave inside the body is one of the issues that needs to be resolved. The behavior of nanoparticles is a function of their size, shape and surface reactivity with the surrounding tissue. They could cause overload on phagocytes, cells that ingest and destroy foreign matter, thereby triggering stress reactions that lead to inflammation and weaken the body’s defense against other pathogens. Apart from what happens if non-degradable or slowly degradable nanoparticles accumulate in organs, another concern is their potential interaction with biological processes inside the body: because of their large surface, nanoparticles on exposure to tissue and fluids will immediately adsorb onto their surface some of the macromolecules they encounter. This may, for instance, affect the regulatory mechanisms of enzymes and other proteins.\n\nThe National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health has conducted initial research on how nanoparticles interact with the body’s systems and how workers might be exposed to nano-sized particles in the manufacturing or industrial use of nanomaterials. NIOSH currently offers interim guidelines for working with nanomaterials consistent with the best scientific knowledge. At The National Personal Protective Technology Laboratory of NIOSH, studies investigating the filter penetration of nanoparticles on NIOSH-certified and EU marked respirators, as well as non-certified dust masks have been conducted. These studies found that the most penetrating particle size range was between 30 and 100 nanometers, and leak size was the largest factor in the number of nanoparticles found inside the respirators of the test dummies.\n\nOther properties of nanomaterials that influence toxicity include: chemical composition, shape, surface structure, surface charge, aggregation and solubility,\nand the presence or absence of functional groups of other chemicals.\nThe large number of variables influencing toxicity means that it is difficult to generalise about health risks associated with exposure to nanomaterials – each new nanomaterial must be assessed individually and all material properties must be taken into account.\n\nLiterature reviews have been showing that release of engineered nanoparticles and incurred personal exposure can happen during different work activities. The situation alerts regulatory bodies to necessitate prevention strategies and regulations at nanotechnology workplaces.\n\nThe environmental impact of nanotechnology is the possible effects that the use of nanotechnological materials and devices will have on the environment. As nanotechnology is an emerging field, there is debate regarding to what extent industrial and commercial use of nanomaterials will affect organisms and ecosystems.\n\nNanotechnology's environmental impact can be split into two aspects: the potential for nanotechnological innovations to help improve the environment, and the possibly novel type of pollution that nanotechnological materials might cause if released into the environment.\n\nGreen nanotechnology refers to the use of nanotechnology to enhance the environmental sustainability of processes producing negative externalities. It also refers to the use of the products of nanotechnology to enhance sustainability. It includes making green nano-products and using nano-products in support of sustainability. Green nanotechnology has been described as the development of clean technologies, \"to minimize potential environmental and human health risks associated with the manufacture and use of nanotechnology products, and to encourage replacement of existing products with new nano-products that are more environmentally friendly throughout their lifecycle.\"\n\nGreen nanotechnology has two goals: producing nanomaterials and products without harming the environment or human health, and producing nano-products that provide solutions to environmental problems. It uses existing principles of green chemistry and green engineering to make nanomaterials and nano-products without toxic ingredients, at low temperatures using less energy and renewable inputs wherever possible, and using lifecycle thinking in all design and engineering stages.\n\nNanopollution is a generic name for all waste generated by nanodevices or during the nanomaterials manufacturing process. Nanowaste is mainly the group of particles that are released into the environment, or the particles that are thrown away when still on their products.\n\nBeyond the toxicity risks to human health and the environment which are associated with first-generation nanomaterials, nanotechnology has broader societal impact and poses broader social challenges. Social scientists have suggested that nanotechnology's social issues should be understood and assessed not simply as \"downstream\" risks or impacts. Rather, the challenges should be factored into \"upstream\" research and decision-making in order to ensure technology development that meets social objectives\n\nMany social scientists and organizations in civil society suggest that technology assessment and governance should also involve public participation. \n\nOver 800 nano-related patents were granted in 2003, with numbers increasing to nearly 19,000 internationally by 2012. Corporations are already taking out broad-ranging patents on nanoscale discoveries and inventions. For example, two corporations, NEC and IBM, hold the basic patents on carbon nanotubes, one of the current cornerstones of nanotechnology. Carbon nanotubes have a wide range of uses, and look set to become crucial to several industries from electronics and computers, to strengthened materials to drug delivery and diagnostics. Carbon nanotubes are poised to become a major traded commodity with the potential to replace major conventional raw materials.\n\nNanotechnologies may provide new solutions for the millions of people in developing countries who lack access to basic services, such as safe water, reliable energy, health care, and education. The 2004 UN Task Force on Science, Technology and Innovation noted that some of the advantages of nanotechnology include production using little labor, land, or maintenance, high productivity, low cost, and modest requirements for materials and energy. However, concerns are frequently raised that the claimed benefits of nanotechnology will not be evenly distributed, and that any benefits (including technical and/or economic) associated with nanotechnology will only reach affluent nations.\n\nLonger-term concerns center on the impact that new technologies will have for society at large, and whether these could possibly lead to either a post-scarcity economy, or alternatively exacerbate the wealth gap between developed and developing nations. The effects of nanotechnology on the society as a whole, on human health and the environment, on trade, on security, on food systems and even on the definition of \"human\", have not been characterized or politicized.\n\nSignificant debate exists relating to the question of whether nanotechnology or nanotechnology-based products merit special government regulation. This debate is related to the circumstances in which it is necessary and appropriate to assess new substances prior to their release into the market, community and environment.\n\nRegulatory bodies such as the United States Environmental Protection Agency and the Food and Drug Administration in the U.S. or the Health & Consumer Protection Directorate of the European Commission have started dealing with the potential risks posed by nanoparticles. So far, neither engineered nanoparticles nor the products and materials that contain them are subject to any special regulation regarding production, handling or labelling. The Material Safety Data Sheet that must be issued for some materials often does not differentiate between bulk and nanoscale size of the material in question and even when it does these MSDS are advisory only.\n\nLimited nanotechnology labeling and regulation may exacerbate potential human and environmental health and safety issues associated with nanotechnology. It has been argued that the development of comprehensive regulation of nanotechnology will be vital to ensure that the potential risks associated with the research and commercial application of nanotechnology do not overshadow its potential benefits. Regulation may also be required to meet community expectations about responsible development of nanotechnology, as well as ensuring that public interests are included in shaping the development of nanotechnology.\n\nIn \"The Consumer Product Safety Commission and Nanotechnology,\" E. Marla Felcher suggests that the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which is charged with protecting the public against unreasonable risks of injury or death associated with consumer products, is ill-equipped to oversee the safety of complex, high-tech products made using nanotechnology.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20991549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20991549", "title": "Interagency Working Group on Youth Programs", "text": "Interagency Working Group on Youth Programs\n\nThe Interagency Working Group on Youth Programs (IWGYP, or Working Group) is a group within the executive branch of the U.S. government, and is responsible for promoting healthy outcomes for all youth, including disconnected youth and youth who are at-risk. The Working Group also engages with national, state, local and tribal agencies and organizations, schools, and faith-based and community organizations that serve youth.\n\nMembership of the Working Group includes staff from 18 federal departments and agencies that support programs and services that target youth. The Working Group was formally established by Executive Order 13459, \"Improving the Coordination and Effectiveness of Youth Programs\", on February 7, 2008.\n\nThe Working Group has developed a Federal Interagency Website on Youth: Youth.gov. This website houses federally developed tools and resources, as well as resources submitted by those working in the field, to help youth-serving organizations and community partnerships as they work to promote positive youth outcomes.\n\nThe IWGYP is responsible for promoting achievement of positive outcomes for youth through the following key activities:\n\n\nIn addition, the IWGYP is responsible for preparing a strategic plan for federal youth policy (Omnibus Appropriations Act, 2009 Committee Print of the House Committee on Appropriations on H.R. 1105/Public Law 111-8, Division F). The current draft plan, \"Pathways for Youth: Draft Strategic Plan for Federal Collaboration\", serves as a strengths-based vision for youth that acknowledges the importance of pathways to opportunity for youth that include meaningful connections and safe, healthy, and stable places to live, learn, and work.\nThe plan includes three main goals, with corresponding objectives, as well as cross-cutting initiatives that will move the plan forward. The three goals of Pathways for Youth are to:\n\nMembership of the Interagency Working Group on Youth Programs includes staff from twelve Federal agencies that support programs and services that target youth: \n\nThe Interagency Working Group on Youth Programs was formally established by Executive Order 13459, \"Improving the Coordination and Effectiveness of Youth Programs\", on February 7, 2008.\n\nThe Interagency Working Group on Youth Programs has developed a Federal Interagency Website on Youth (Youth.gov), which houses federally developed tools and resources, as well as resources submitted by those working in the field, to help youth-serving organizations and community partnerships. Youth.gov seeks to benefit federal agencies, youth service providers, and the youth-serving community. The tools and resources available on the website include resources to assist communities and others with:\n\nTopics include:\n\nThe Working Group seeks to develop additional strategies, tools, and resources accessible through the Youth.gov that can help promote effective community-based efforts that address youth risk and protective factors.\n\nThe Youth.gov Program Directory is a searchable database that provides users with information about evidence-based programs whose purpose is to prevent and/or reduce problem behaviors in young people (under age 18). Communities can use this tool to determine whether replicating these strategies will meet local needs.\n\nTwo sets of programs are included:\n\n1. The Teen Pregnancy Prevention program directory. Under a contract with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Mathematica Policy Research conducted an independent systematic review of the evidence base for programs to prevent teen pregnancy, sexually transmitted infections, and/or sexual risk behaviors.\n\nThis review defined the criteria for the quality of an evaluation study and the strength of evidence for a particular intervention. Based on these criteria, HHS has defined a set of rigorous standards an evaluation must meet in order to be considered an evidence-based program. The review is being updated on an ongoing basis.\n\n2. The Substance Abuse, Violence, and Other Risk Behavior program directory. . Through a partnership with the U.S. Department of Justice, programs are assessed by expert study reviewers from the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention’s (OJJDP’s) Model Programs Guide (MPG), using www.CrimeSolutions.gov program review process, scoring instrument, and evidence standards. The MPG is an easy-to-use program database established to assist practitioners, policymakers, and communities in identifying and implementing programs that can make a difference in the lives of children and families. Information includes child victimization, substance abuse, youth violence, mental health and trauma, and gang activity.\n\nIn addition to the searchable Program Directory, the Youth.gov site also maintains the website \"A Guide to Evidence and Innovation\", which aims to help organizations select, implement, monitor, and evaluate evidence-based programs and strategies. The website includes information that can assist organizations in identifying what they are hoping to address through implementation, assessing their readiness and capacity, finding programs that meet their needs, adapting programs while maintaining fidelity, and conducting ongoing evaluation and monitoring. Users can also learn about federal efforts around evidence and the evidence base to support policies and programs as well as watch videos featuring experts in the field that can guide their program implementation efforts.\n\nThe IWGYP has developed a series of collaboration profiles to promote enhanced collaboration at the federal, state, and local levels. The profiles provide real-world examples of the ways that different organizations work together to improve outcomes for youth. Each collaboration is unique in their purpose, accomplishments, how they structure their work, the challenges that they face, and the types of organizations that are involved.\n\nFeatured collaboration profiles include:\n\nThe IWGYP has begun to identify other promising Federal initiatives with which to engage, including the following agencies and groups: \n\nThe Working Group is charged with identifying and engaging key government and private or nonprofit organizations that can play a role in improving the coordination and effectiveness of programs serving and engaging youth, such as faith-based and other organizations, community coalitions and partnerships, businesses, volunteers and other key constituencies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48956380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48956380", "title": "International Dwarf Fashion Show", "text": "International Dwarf Fashion Show\n\nThe International Dwarf Fashion Show also known as The National Dwarf Fashion Show is a non-profit organization which seeks to empower and raise awareness to people living with dwarfism by putting on fashion shows consisting entirely of people living with dwarfism. They are best known for their contribution to fashion week in Paris, New York and Berlin.\n\nAfter seeing a dwarf woman struggling to find appropriate clothes, CEO of CBH Model Management Myriam Chalek decided she wanted to raise awareness about achondroplasia (a form of dwarfism) by exposing the fashion and modeling industry to the unexplored market of dwarfism.\n\nChalek and the nonprofit Donnons Leur Une Chance founded The Dwarf Fashion Show, consisting entirely of dwarf models. The Dwarf Fashion Show took part in Paris's annual fashion week and received extensive media coverage.\n\nIn 2015, due to the heightened success of The Dwarf Fashion Show, Chalek took what was supposed to be a single event and created the non-profit The International Dwarf Fashion show.\n\nThe mission of the International Dwarf Fashion Show is “to reverse the discriminatory diktats of beauty and to give the opportunity to little people to express themselves by bringing an innovative perspective to the fashion industry.\n\n\nA special show at the White House to commemorate the passing of the Americans with Disabilities Act is being planned. .\n"}
{"id": "56803181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56803181", "title": "John Cullen (chemical engineer)", "text": "John Cullen (chemical engineer)\n\nSir Edward John Cullen FEng PhD DSc (29 October 1926 – 14 January 2018) was a British chemical engineer who was head of the UK Health and Safety Commission and received a knighthood for services to health and safety.\n\nCullen was born in October 1926 in Bury St Edmonds and attended Culford School. After service in the RAF he went to Emmanuel College, Cambridge in 1948, graduating in chemical engineering in 1952, followed by a Master's degree in the same subject at the University of Texas as a Fulbright Scholar, returning to Cambridge to do a PhD in gas absorption.\nHe married Betty Hopkins in 1954, and they had four children. He died 14 January 2018.\n\nCullen joined the research department of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority in 1956, moving to ICI, Billingham as a chemical plant manager, where he remained for three years before going to New York as technical liaison for ICI. He returned to the UK in 1963 to oversee the building of the refinery on Teesside as a joint venture between ICI and Phillips Petroleum. From 1967 to 1983 he joined the US company Rohm & Haas finishing as managing director of Rohm & Haas UK.\n\nHe had been particularly involved is safety at ICI and from 1979 was European Director of Rohm & Haas, responsible for engineering, regulatory affairs, health, safety and the environment. This led to him becoming Deputy Chairman of the Chemical Industry Safety, Health & Environment Committee of the Chemical Industries Association and to being Chairman of Health & Safety Commission from 1983 until his retirement in 1993. During this office he was responsible for overseeing the major hazards legislation COMAH and the occupational health legislation COSHH as well as dealing with major incidents such as the Piper Alpha, King's Cross fire and Clapham Junction rail crash.\n\nCullen was a Fellow of the Institution of Chemical Engineers, and its President 1988–9. He was also a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering. He was president of the Pipeline Industries Guild from 1996 to 1998. In 1993 he was awarded an honorary doctorate (DSc) by the University of Exeter. He received a knighthood (Knight Bachelor) in the 1991 Birthday Honours.\n"}
{"id": "2021896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2021896", "title": "John Hendrie (Scottish footballer)", "text": "John Hendrie (Scottish footballer)\n\nJohn Grattan Hendrie (born 24 October 1963) is a Scottish former professional association footballer who played on the right wing or in attack.\n\nHis career started at Coventry City but he moved to Bradford City, where he played 173 consecutive league games, winning one promotion and narrowly missing out on another. Following spells with Newcastle United and Leeds United, he moved to Middlesbrough and scored the final goal at Ayresome Park among his 44 goals for Boro. When he was replaced by Brazilian Juninho he moved to Barnsley where he finished his career and also served as manager.\n\nHis uncle is another Scottish former pro footballer, Paul Hendrie. Paul has two sons (John's cousins) in the game; Lee Hendrie made a late substitute appearance for England in 1998 and Stuart Hendrie played for Morecambe.\n\nHendrie started his professional football career at Coventry City, originally signing as an apprentice in June 1980, and signing full-time forms in May 1981. He was a hit with Coventry's reserves, being top scorer in 1983–84, with ten goals from 25 games, but he struggled to break into the first team and played in just 21 league games during his time at Coventry. Instead he moved on a free transfer to Bradford City in 1984 following a loan spell with Hereford United.\n\nHendrie was one of two free transfers between the 1983–84 and 1984–85 seasons, along with Dave Evans, as manager Trevor Cherry tried to build a team capable of promotion from Division Three. Hendrie was an ever-present in his first season scoring nine goals from his right wing position as City won the Division Three title. On the last day of that successful season his day was to turn into a nightmare when 56 spectators were killed in a horrendous stand fire while playing Lincoln City.\n\nHendrie continued to be one of the first names of the City team-sheet following promotion and during his four seasons at City he missed just one league game. He won a series of fans' awards and nominations for the PFA teams in 1987 and 1988. He scored ten goals in 1985–86 and 14 more in 1986–87. Cherry had been replaced by Terry Dolan, who built a team pushing for promotion to Division One in 1987–88. Hendrie was one of the key men, scoring 13 goals, but he was sent off in a 2–2 draw at Manchester City on 23 April 1988. His subsequent suspension meant he missed the final league game of the season, as City lost 3–2 to Ipswich Town and missed out on promotion. It was the only league game Hendrie missed during his time at Valley Parade, and his 173 consecutive league appearances has only been beaten by Geoff Smith with City. Hendrie came back for the play-off games with Middlesbrough but after defeat he signed for Newcastle United for £500,000.\n\nHendrie's career stalled at Newcastle United in a difficult season for the Magpies and he soon moved on to Leeds United. He spent just one season at Leeds but was voted in the top 100 Leeds players in 2000.\n\nHe played as a deep-lying striker for Middlesbrough and helped them win promotion to the newly founded FA Premier League in 1992, where on 5 December 1992 he scored a hat-trick in a 3–2 win against Blackburn Rovers. Hendrie was their leading scorer in 1995 when they won promotion back to the top flight. He secured legendary status on Teesside by scoring the last ever goal at Ayresome Park.\n\nHe left the following year after losing his place in the first team to Juninho Paulista, and joined Division One side Barnsley. Once again, Hendrie contributed towards his club winning promotion as Barnsley finished Division One runners-up and became top division members for the first time in their history. Hendrie was unable to prevent Barnsley from suffering relegation in 1997–98, and after the end of the season he succeeded Danny Wilson as manager.\n\nJohn Hendrie was sacked on 19 April 1999 after just one season in charge of Barnsley, having failed to achieve a promotion play off place.\n\nBradford City\nLeeds United\n\nHendrie is married to Linda, with whom he has three sons, Joe, Luke and Jordan, and a daughter Lauren. They live in Menston. Two of his three sons are junior footballers; Luke playing at Kilmarnock on loan from Burnley, Jordan with Guiseley. Both attended St. Mary's Catholic High School, Menston.\n\n"}
{"id": "29499913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29499913", "title": "Louis and Beatrice Laufer Center for Physical and Quantitative Biology", "text": "Louis and Beatrice Laufer Center for Physical and Quantitative Biology\n\nThe Louis and Beatrice Laufer Center for Physical and Quantitative Biology (Laufer Center) is a multidisciplinary venue where research from such fields as biology, biochemistry, chemistry, computer science, engineering, genetics, mathematics, and physics can come together and target medical and biological problems using both computation and experiment. The Laufer Center is part of Stony Brook University. The center's current director is Dr. Ken A. Dill. Associate director is Dr. Carlos Simmerling. Core faculty members include Dr. and Dr. Sasha F. Levy. Additional affiliate faculty are from the Departments of Chemistry, Physics, Applied Mathematics, Pharmacology, Biomedical Engineering, Molecular Genetics & Microbiology, Ecology & Evolution and Computer Science at Stony Brook University, as well as from the Biology Department at Brookhaven National Laboratory. Among the Laufer Center's goals is to enhance interdisciplinary education at Stony Brook University. Dr. coordinates the flagship course of the Center, Physical and Quantitative Biology, which is offered each Fall through the Departments of Physics, Chemistry and Biomedical Engineering.\n\nThe center was founded in 2008 by a gift from Drs. Henry Laufer, Marsha Laufer and their family in memory of Louis and Beatrice Laufer. On May 7, 2012 the Laufer Center opened with a ribbon-cutting ceremony.\n"}
{"id": "30998612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30998612", "title": "Marlies Veldhuijzen van Zanten", "text": "Marlies Veldhuijzen van Zanten\n\nMarie Louise Lydia Elisabeth \"Marlies\" Veldhuijzen van Zanten-Hyllner (born 29 September 1953 in Gothenburg, Sweden) is a former Dutch politician of the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA). She was the State Secretary for Health, Welfare and Sport in the first Rutte cabinet, serving from 14 October 2010 to 5 November 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "33528060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33528060", "title": "Ministry of Health (Spain)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Spain)\n\nThe Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare of Spain ()\n\nis the ministerial department which takes charge of the health, social and consumption policy. The ministry is headquartered in the Paseo del Prado in Madrid, opposite the Prado Museum and was previously called the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality.\n\nAccording to Eurostat, Spain spends 6.2% of GDP on health, approximately $83 billion (€70 billion).\n\nThe Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare is a department of the General Administration responsible for:\n\nThe Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare is organised in the following superior bodies:\n\n\nThe current Ministry was created in the Constituent Legislature in 1977, integrating responsibilities for Health that were hitherto managed by the Ministry of the Interior, and the powers of the Secretariat of Social Security.\nReferences can be found to the action of Government in public health and welfare in the nineteenth century. A Royal Decree of 9 November 1832 created a Ministry of Public Works and Transport, which included powers over \"the field of health with the infirmaries, water and mineral baths\" and \"charitable institutions\".\n\nA further Royal Decree of March 10, 1847, created a Department of Health, one of six that made up what is now the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nState powers in this area remained with this department until 1933, when the Secretariat of Health and Welfare was transferred to the Ministry of Labour, which then became known as the Ministry of Labour and Health.\n\nOn November 4, 1936, the Ministry of Health and Welfare was created, with a woman holding a cabinet portfolio for the first time in the history of Spain: Federica Montseny.\n\nThis ministry was short-lived. When the Prime Minister of the Republic, Juan Negrín, replaced Francisco Largo Caballero the ministry was abolished and absorbed into the Ministry of Labour, once again under a decree of July 5, 1937. After the Spanish Civil War, the responsibility returned to the Ministry of the Interior until 1977.\n\nRoyal Decree 1558 of July 4, 1977 established the ministry in its current form, including responsibility for Social Security. Staffing consisted of two secretariats (the Department and Health), a Technical Secretariat and six Directorates: Staff, Management and Finance, Benefits, Social Services Healthcare, Pharmaceutical Management and Public Health and Veterinary Public Health.\n\nFor a short period between February and November 1981, Health was once again merged with Labour. Royal Decree 2823 of 1981, restored it to full ministerial rank but this time without social security which remained with the Labour ministry. With the victory of the People's Party in the elections of 1996, Jose Manuel Romay Beccaria was appointed Minister of Health and Consumer Affairs, a position he held throughout the Sixth Legislature. Under his direction was created in 1997, the Spanish Agency for Medicines and Health Products (Agencia Española de Medicamentos y Productos Sanitarios). In the Seventh Legislature Celia Villalobos became minister (2000-2002) and achieved notoriety by her handling mad cow disease. She was succeeded by Ana Pastor Julián (2002-2004). The mad cow crisis precipitated the creation, under Law 11/2001, of the Spanish Food Safety Agency (Agencia Española de Seguridad Alimentaria y Nutrición, and from 2007: Seguridad Alimentaria y Nutrición).\n\nAt the beginning of the eighth legislature Elena Salgado became minister (2004-7), but the National Plan on Drugs (Plan Nacional sobre Drogas) was shifted to the Ministry of the Interior (2004). On 6 July 2007, Bernat Soria (2007-9), a scientist by background, succeeded her. In the current (ninth) legislature Soria was re-appointed in 2008, and succeeded by Trinidad Jiménez (2009–10) following a cabinet shuffle. Under Jiménez Social Policy was returned to the health portfolio, including the Institute for the Elderly and Social Services (Instituto de Mayores y Servicios Sociales), previously under Education. Under Leire Pajín (October 2010-December 2011), responsibility for Equality issues were added to her duties, previously under a separate ministry of its own, and the Institute for Women (Instituto de la Mujer), and the Institute for Youth (\"Instituto de la Juventud\"). At the beginning of the current tenth legislature Ana Mato became minister. On 24 November 2014, she resigned. On 3 December 2014, Alfonso Alonso succeeded her.\n\n(1) Ministry of Health and Social Security(2) Ministry of Work, Health and Social Security(3) Ministry of Health and Consumers(4) Ministry of Health and Social Policies(5) Ministry of Health, Social Policy and Equality(6) Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality(7) Ministry of Health, Consumption and Social Welfare\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49681157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49681157", "title": "Newborn Foundation", "text": "Newborn Foundation\n\nThe Newborn Foundation is a Minnesota-based international 501(c)3 non-profit organization that works to spread the implementation of neonatal screening to reduce infant mortality.\n\nThe Newborn Foundation is credited with persuading the United States Department of Health and Human Services to formally recommend universal pulse oximetry screening for congenital heart defects in every child born in the United States. Annamarie Saarinen co-founded the Newborn Foundation in 2010 after her daughter, Eve Saarinen, was nearly discharged from her hospital nursery with an undetected critical congenital heart defect (CCHD). Saarinen formed the Newborn Foundation to ensure the addition the CCHD testing to the federal Routine Uniform Screening Panel (RUSP). The Newborn Foundation awarded OZ Systems CEO Dr. Terese Finitzo the EVE Innovation Award for achievements in newborn screening, policy and technology.\n\nAfter successfully implementing policy that would create mandates around newborn heart screening in the United States, the Newborn Foundation launched the BORN (Birth Oximetry Routine for Newborns) project. The BORN project is a global health initiative that aims to bring affordable, mobile newborn screening to developing nations. In September 2015, the BORN project was selected by the United Nations and the White House as one of 14 innovation projects to help achieve their 17 Sustainable Development Goals by 2030.\n"}
{"id": "36859002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36859002", "title": "Norfolk Ornithological Association", "text": "Norfolk Ornithological Association\n\nThe Norfolk Ornithological Association owns a number of nature reserves in Norfolk. This ornithological society, founded in 1970, has its headquarters at the Holme Bird Observatory near Holme-next-the-Sea, which adjoining the Norfolk Wildlife Trust Holme Dunes reserve.\n\nThe organisation has a particular interest in migration, especially at sites near the coast like the Holme and Walsey Hills reserves, and the Holme observatory alone had ringed 50,000 birds of 300 species by its fiftieth anniversary in 2012. The Holme reserve has a range of different habitats and a number of nationally scarce plants. There is a regular moth trapping programme. The observatory is in the North Norfolk Coast Site of Special Scientific Interest, an area additionally protected through Natura 2000, Special Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar listings, and part of the Norfolk Coast Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB).\n\nThe NOA owns or manages\n"}
{"id": "37408636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37408636", "title": "Ova bank", "text": "Ova bank\n\nA ova bank, or cryobank or egg cell bank is a facility that collects and stores human ova, mainly from ova donors, primarily for the purpose of achieving pregnancies of either the donor, at a later time (i.e. to overcome issues of infertility), or through third party reproduction, notably by artificial insemination. Ova donated in this way are known as donor ova.\n\nThere are currently very few ova banks in existence.\n\nGenerally, the main purpose of storing ova, at present, is to overcome infertility which may arise at a later age, or due to a disease. The ova are generally collected between 31 and 35 years of age.\n\nThe procedure of collecting ova may or may not include ovarian hyperstimulation.\n\nIt can be expected however that ova collection will become more important in the future, i.e. for third party reproduction, and/or for producing stem cells, i.e. from unfertilized eggs (oocytes).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13006382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13006382", "title": "Remote guidance", "text": "Remote guidance\n\nRemote guidance, in the medical context, refers to the supervision or guidance of a medical task, usually a procedures or test, from a remote location. This falls in the realm of real time telemedicine applications. By way of example, a radiologist may guide an ultrasound examination from a remote location. As such the proximate requisite expertise to accomplish a medical task is significantly diminished. In the previous example, a diagnostic quality ultrasound can be accomplished by non-medically trained individuals manipulating an ultrasound device located with the patient under guidance from a remote location. This is an example of teleradiology If appropriately configured, the remote guidance can originate from another room or floor in the same building, to as far away as another continent or even planet. NASA researchers have successfully demonstrated remote guidance of diagnostic level cardiac ultrasonography using an ultrasound on the space station, non-medical astronauts performing the exam as guided by a terrestrially located expert.\n\nRemote diagnostics refers to a real time telemedical application which achieves diagnostic level quality and information exchange. In this sense, it refers to an expectation for quality sufficient for making or excluding a medical diagnosis. In the tele-medical context specific to radiologic images these images often are consistent with the DICOM standard. Given bandwidth issues universally plaguing the healthcare environment imagery beyond still images and brief video has not yet become standard expectation of care environments or PACS systems. Ultrasound scanning commonly utilized for abdomen, musculoskeletal, pelvis, gynecologic, cardiac and vascular evaluations has shown potential for remote diagnosis only of late.\n\nMore general Remote Diagnostics (RD) refers to detecting which fault or faults are present in a system, body of object, from a distance. Examples of use: aeroplanes, spacecraft, Formula 1 and major assets such as ships, trains etc. In cases where corrective actions are also made, the term 'Remote Diagnostic & Maintenance' is more appropriate.\n\nWhile still imagery can be e-mailed and forwarded in a multitude of methods, video product of medical devices has typically not been available for remote interaction. Recent improvements in scanning devices, for example ultrasound machines has facilitated this new capability. The inclusion of the VGA output gives the opportunity for frame grabber devices to stream such outputs to the internet.\n\n"}
{"id": "30420023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30420023", "title": "Revista Brasileira de Psiquiatria", "text": "Revista Brasileira de Psiquiatria\n\nThe Revista Brasileira de Psiquiatria is the official journal of the Associação Brasileira de Psiquiatria (ABP - Brazilian Association of Psychiatry). It is published quarterly, and was formerly titled \"Revista ABP\". Its purpose is to publish original works from all areas of psychiatry, focusing on public health, clinical epidemiology, basic sciences, and mental health problems. The journal also publishes two annual supplements, focusing mainly on clinical updating.\n"}
{"id": "50644305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50644305", "title": "State Service for Medications and Drugs Control", "text": "State Service for Medications and Drugs Control\n\nThe State Drugs and Medications Control Service () is a national law enforcement agency of executive authority responsible for drafting state policy, legal regulation, control and monitoring in combating trafficking drugs, psychotropic substances, medications and their precursors. The Service is specially authorized to address and solve problems relating to traffic in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, and their precursors; the Service is also authorized to combat the illicit drug trafficking. Commonly was known as The Drugs Control Service (Derzhavna Sluzhba Narcocontrolya).\n\nThe Service was formed on September 10, 2014 by Cabinet Resolution No. 442 by the merge of the State Service for Drugs Control (Державна слу́жба Украї́ни з контро́лю за нарко́тиками) and the State Service of Medicines (Державна служба України з лікарських засобів).\n\nThe service is formed for implementation of state policy in the areas of:\n\nThe activities of this body is directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, directly and through the Minister of Healthcare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17779935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17779935", "title": "Stop AIDS Project", "text": "Stop AIDS Project\n\nStop AIDS Project (SAP) is a United States nonprofit organization established in 1985 that works to prevent HIV transmission among all gay, bisexual, and trans men in San Francisco, California, through multicultural, community based organizing. \n\nInternationally recognized as a successful model of grassroots prevention and support, SAP brings diverse gay, bisexual, and trans men together to talk about the challenges and issues posed by Human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) through neighborhood outreach, workshops and community forums.\n\nTheir work extends beyond education—helping change behavior, create personal commitment to safer sex, build community support for each individual, with the mission statement: HIV transmission can be prevented.\n\nThe mission of STOP AIDS Project is to prevent HIV transmission among all gay, bisexual and transgender men in San Francisco through collaborative and multicultural, community- based organizing.\n\n\nPrograms\n\nOther Links\n"}
{"id": "4303882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4303882", "title": "Straw man (dummy)", "text": "Straw man (dummy)\n\nA straw man (\"ritual doll\") is a dummy in the shape of a human usually made up entirely out of straw material, or created by stuffing straw into clothes.\n\nStraw men are commonly used as scarecrows, combat training targets, swordsmiths' test targets, effigies to be burned, and as rodeo dummies to distract bulls. \n\nIn the sport of rodeo, the straw man is a dummy, originally made of a shirt and pants stuffed with straw. The straw man is placed in the arena during bullriding events as a safety measure. It is intended to distract the bull after the rider has dismounted (or has been thrown), with the idea that the bull will attack the straw man rather than attack its former rider. Two so-called rodeo clowns – people dressed in bright colors whose job it is to distract the bull if the rider is injured – are in the ring as well and are usually far more effective than the straw man.\n\n"}
{"id": "16845153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16845153", "title": "Supported employment", "text": "Supported employment\n\nSupported employment refers to service provisions wherein people with disabilities, including intellectual disabilities, mental health, and traumatic brain injury, among others, are assisted with obtaining and maintaining employment. Supported employment is considered to be one form of employment in which wages are expected, together with benefits from an employer in a competitive workplace, though some versions refer to disability agency paid employment.\nCompanies such as Skilcraft in the United States are an example of supported employment.\n\nSupported employment was developed in the United States in the 1970s as part of both vocational rehabilitation (VR) services (e.g., NYS Office of Vocational Services, 1978) and the advocacy for long term services and supports (LTSS) for individuals with significant disabilities in competitive job placements in integrated settings (e.g., businesses, offices, manufacturing facilities). Since the mid-1980s, supported employment in the professional literature primarily has referred to the \"individual placement\" model, either with job coaches or through \"natural supports\" models. The critical issue in supported employment (SE) was viewed as the need for funding for long-term services and supports (LTSS) in the community often termed beyond \"case closure\" (Griffin, Test, Dalton, & Wood, 1995). Supported employment is worldwide in 2013, though moving to new inclusive models, and the term has been used for assisting workers of diverse kinds who may need an extra jump start in the workplace; it is still associated with its roots in disability which includes community integration and deinstitutionalization \n\nSupported employment came from the community non-profit sector as an effort with government to offer services to individuals with significant disabilities, some of whom were moving from institutional life, in local communities for \"supported work\" (around the late 1970s). Community personnel entered rehabilitation programs, for degrees, and began an academic professionalization of the fields. Supported employment (SE) was on the rise nationally in the US in 1985 with growing university support, new dedicated agencies and programs, and preparation of master's and doctoral students in rehabilitation and education (e.g., Syracuse University, Rehabilitation Counseling, and Social Policy degrees). As an example, Thomas Bellamy, Larry Rhodes and Jay Albin of Oregon prepared a new chapter titled \"Supported Employment\" which indicated its uniqueness as having no entry requirement and no minimum ability levels (unheard of in vocational programs) in order to include candidates regardless of the nature or degree of their disability\".\n\n\"Supported employment\" was based upon principles of community integration and the site location termed an \"integrated setting\" was a core component of the applied and theoretical models (e.g., community integration theories, social role valorization, normalization, independent living theories, universal design). In addition, other critical aspects were paid work, vocational choices, employer development, school to work transition to job sites, and involvement of parents in the employment process. A Rehabilitation Research and Training Center (RRTC) on Supported Employment or related Employment and Disability areas has been funded in the university sector from the federal levels for over three decades under the leadership of Dr. Paul Wehman.\n\nBy 1985, supported employment based on community integration had diverse vocational models in the US, including the social relationship concept of \"disabled and non-disabled co-workers\" working side-by-side in integrated workplaces (Nisbet &Callahan, 1987). Both consumers (self-advocates) and parents supported the new movement (in intellectual and developmental disabilities), seeking better opportunities for jobs, and later careers. A leading text on \"Critical Issues in the Lives of People with Severe Disabilities\" (Meyer, Peck & Brown, 1991) highlighted Supported Employment as one of the emerging practices with research already available on benefit-costs, consumer wages, social integration, and ongoing support (Rusch, Chadsey-Rusch, & Johnson, 1991).\n\nIn the psychiatric field, the prominent approach, also very innovative in long term services and supports (LTSS) was transitional employment associated with the now international Clubhouse Model of Fountain House in New York City. Gary Bond (1994) reported supported work as a modification of this approach. Paul Carling (1995) of the University of Vermont supported the development of community employment options in the field of psychiatric disabilities; Paul Wehman conducted critical cross-disability studies near the Medical School; Dr. Steven Murphy (1991) adapted employment supports for the psychiatric field; Julie Ann Racino confirmed related affirmative business and family models (e.g., Racino, 2003), and Dr. William Anthony (Anthony et al., 2002) of Boston University and his research center continues to work since the 1980s on a \"get-choose-keep\" approach to employment.\n\nThe legal \"Integration\" base for supported employment was described by Frank Laski, of The Public Interest Law Center in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, (1985, April) as being the Education for All Handicapped Children Act (as revised by the Individual Disabilities Education Improvement Act) and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (amended 1978) passed by the US Congress. He also found strong support for moving from sheltered settings to supported employment in Developmentally Disabled Assistance and Bill of Rights Act (1975, as amended 1984) and fully supported a \"zero reject\" policy, individualized work plans, and questioning the notion of the \"employability\" concept.\n\nSupported employment, emanating from the sheltered and governmental services sectors, has different roots than employment based upon traditional civil rights and discrimination approaches. Employment and disability often shares common roots with others disadvantaged in employment, based on discrimination due to gender, race, ethnicity, family structure, and disability, among other \"differences\" (e.g., Urban League of Onondaga County, Inc.). Such coalition based strategies emanate from the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and seek redress in employment based upon discrimination in hiring, promotions, terminations, and payments, among others. Such positions are not \"dedicated positions\", but may involve a reasonable accommodation (e.g., personal assistant, work desk modification) to perform the job as defined by the primary tasks of the employer-based system for \"qualified individuals\" Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, now amended in 2008.\n\nBy 1991, proposed rules for the State Supported Employment Grant Program were published in the Federal Register for comment by the US Department of Education, and the announcement was made available to deaf and hearing impaired individuals through a TDD service (FR 56: 219.57776-57786). The Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA)received comments, and the intent was to advance the program authorized under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Part C, as amended which supported disability rights in employment in the community. It also advanced the national goals of \"literacy and \"lifelong learning\" for skills in the \"global economy\". in 2013, the US Department of Education, Office of Special Education and Rehabilitation, Rehabilitation Services Administration, issued a policy directive on supported employment (RSA-PD-13-02, April 30, 2013).\n\nIn the United States, supported employment is defined in the Rehabilitation Act, as amended (1978). The more recent Rehabilitation Act Amendments were contained in the Workforce Investment Act signed into law in 1998. The Rehabilitation Act and its amendments establish and fund the Vocational Rehabilitation program. Vocational Rehabilitation, which is frequently referred to as “V.R.”, is the core national employment program for persons with a disability, but is not the main agency to fund long-term services and supports (LTSS) in the community. Federal funding is funneled through state Vocational Rehabilitation agencies, and categorical state agencies and their regional offices (e.g., New York Office of People with Developmental Disabilities) are also involved, including Home and Community-Based (HCB) Medicaid Services Waiver funded programs nationwide.\n\nHere is a representation of the core definition of supported employment as it is contained in the Rehabilitation Act Amendments (Public Law 102-569: Supported Employment Definitions). Supported employment means: \nA. Competitive employment in an integrated setting with ongoing support services for individuals with the most significant disabilities –\na) for whom competitive employment has not traditionally occurred; or \nb) for whom competitive employment has been interrupted or intermittent as a result of significant disability; and \nc) who, because of the nature and severity of their disabilities, need ongoing support services including both intensive initial support services and also extended services after transition from those initial support services in order to perform work; or \nB. Transitional employment for individuals with the most significant disabilities due to mental illness.\n\nThere are a number of important critically important terms and concepts referenced in this definition of supported employment. These terms are:\n\nThe most common model of supported employment involves job coaching with the traditional rehabilitation approach to \"fade services\" into the work setting; however, supported employment has roots in long-term supports and services, and variations based upon \"natural supports\" (e.g., payments to a coworker to provide assistance).\n\nPrinciples of Parents for Positive Futures were: real jobs in real workplaces, services for all, ongoing support, social integration, and individualized and flexible. Self advocates agreed with Real jobs for real pay, especially starting from \"make work\" in institutional settings.\n\nIn the vocational rehabilitation systems, concepts of working with business and industry, competitive employment (e.g., achieving existing job classifications and wages and benefits), transition to the workforces from schools, and traditional obstacles to work including competition, are all addressed in the VR systems. \n\nCosts of supported employment have been an area of research and study since its inception, and include academic studies in categorical disability areas (e.g., psychiatric, traumatic brain injury) regarding long-term services in competitive settings (e.g., Wehman et al., 2003; Rogers et al., 1995).\n\nSupported employment was designed to be cost-effective and cost-beneficial, and indeed has been documented to be so as a key community services in public administration and disability (Racino, in press, 2014). However, two cost trends are the medical center gates which change the cost structure and personnel (from collaboration between education and medical to medical operations; \"physical restoration\" by a \"physiatrist\"); and a government trend to cut the cost of its already lean services (e.g., natural supports to lower costs).\n\nCimera's 2012 review on the \"economics of supported employment\" indicated that:\n1. Individuals fare better financially from working in the community rather than sheltered workshops, regardless of disability.\n2. Relative wages earned by supported employees were up 31.2% since the 1980s, while sheltered workshop wages decreased.\nOver 30 studies were reviewed in the 1980s and 1990s including in the US, Australia, Great Britain and Canada finding that \"individuals with disabilities experience greater monetary benefits than costs when working in the community\".\n\nHowever, concerns regarding subminimum wage and employment extend to the community, especially due to the interplay of benefits, entry level versus skilled jobs, wages paid to the employee versus employer benefits, and dead end versus career approaches. However, early studies reported benefits of $1.97 to every dollar in cost with $13,815 in gross wages and fringe benefits to the employee (Hill et al., 1987) whom others viewed as \"permanently unemployable\" or \"unable to work\".\n\nIn addition, reviews of costs and benefits do not indicate the revenue streams for supported employment, especially when these programs can be one service of a large community \"disability NGO\" (non-governmental organization) and were eligible for Medicaid financing as early as 1991 (Smith & Gettings, 1991). Government itself in the late 2000s is increasingly concerned about costs, and vocational rehabilitation services, are being reviewed for their cost-effectiveness and ways to increase positive outcomes for clientele of their services \n\nSupported employment evolved as a way to assist individuals with the most significant disabilities with employment in their communities...a real job for real pay, and involves personal assistance services including for people who lived in institutions in the US. For over 30 years supported employment has demonstrated that individuals with severe disabilities can work, yet today many individuals remain segregated in sheltered workshops and day programs. Efforts to convert sheltered workshops to provide supported employment (now, one person at a time) are underway, and a generation of Master's level students in Rehabilitation Counseling and Special Education have been educated in changing services and organizations from older, outdated segregation models to integrated vocational approaches in the community (e.g., Gardner, et al., 1988; Rogan & Racino, 1992). Verdicts in recent lawsuits upholding the right to work in inclusive settings seem to indicate that integrated employment will soon be the first choice.\n\nBest practices dictate that an individualized support approach to supported employment, funded as a professional vocational rehabilitation service (now changing to infusion of risk and protective health factors), is used to assist individuals with gaining and maintaining employment (later, termed job retention). These practices may involve a supported employment service provider (professionals)to understand how to customize employment and provide supports, school personnel in transition, or it may involve an approach similar to bridgebuilding and person-centered community development. Supports could include: modifying a job, adding accommodations or assistive technology, enhancing on the job site training among other approaches, such as identifying network relationships (e.g., family business, local job sites and owners) and training parents regarding better futures. What is needed will vary from one person and one employer to the next, but do involve the human resource offices, the funding agencies, the supervisory levels, and even union leadership, among others. In 2010, customized employment, state employment first policies, and \"revisiting key federal policies\" are recommended as leadership in \"employment of persons with severe disabilities\"; however, with a newer movement toward the development of \"non-work supports\".\n\nEarly supported employment agency leaders, shifting from services to supports, included Jerry Kiracofe's Human Services Institute in Maryland (Kiracofe, 1994), Jeffrey Strully originally in Kentucky at Seven Counties Services (now, Rogan & Strully, 2007 in Colorado and California), Richard Crowley's area agency in New Hampshire (Rogan, 1992), ENABLE and Transitional Living Services in New York (the latter simply deciding in 1977 that \"long term clients\" in the community had a right to seek jobs and work, supported by \"residential staff\"), agencies in Oregon (Magis-Agosta, 1994), Wisconsin (Racino, 1987) and Great Britain, among others. These groups were associated also with research studies on job supports, workplace culture, and gender and ethnic concerns in employment structures. Supported employment was studied early in Canada in relationship to quality of life and an employment support worker (Pedlar, Lord & Loon, 1989).\n\nPersonal assistance services, a premier service of public policy and independent living, has a strong national and international research base dating back to the 1980s.(Litvak, Zukas & Heumann, 1987). Personal assistance services (PAS)has expanded to be an important component of \"workplace supports\" (Soloveiva, et al., 2010) and is part of working schemes in countries such as Sweden (Clevner & Johansson, @2012). Personal assistance services and workplace PAS has been taught through Virginia Commonwealth University as an online course and is available in 2013 as a self-study through the independent living network.(http://www.worksupport.com/pas/funding.cfm) PAS has been developed for use by diverse groups, including in cognitive disabilities, inclusive of mental health, brain injuries and intellectual disabilities, and for individuals with medical and physical needs for assistance (Racino, 1995).\n\nNatural supports models were funded by the federal and state governments, but public discussion of the concept and implementation has been lacking giving its relevance to workplaces. \"Natural supports funding packages\" were recommended by the university sector to state employment agencies with preferences for schemes which are based upon coworker training, the use of employment specialists to facilitate natural supports, and matching the supported employee with the natural supports of the worksites. Early models of \"natural supports\" were proposed by the rehabilitation community as part of research studies (e.g., Hagner, 1988), and knowing the colloquial paths of this approach international speaker Racino retorted, \"What is natural about natural supports anyway?\" The natural supports approaches were also aligned with related initiatives including empowerment and choice in employment, and gender differences in supported employment.\n\nOne of the innovations from work with the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 as amended in 1978 was the application of the concept of reasonable accommodations to fields such as psychiatric disabilities. As part of deinstitutionalization efforts, now at the US Supreme Court's Olmstead Decision of 1999, \"long-term services and supports\" (LTSS) clients were seeking work in communities to support themselves (and sometimes families) in homes and daily lives. Systemic efforts were made to identify barriers to employment (e.g., Noble & Collignon, 1988), and legal avenues were also opened as described by Dr. Peter Blanck on the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Reasonable accommodation allowed modifications on the job, while still retaining the competitive job site and pay grades in the community. The term \"employment supports\" was also applied to efforts to assist individuals which may come to the rehabilitation system with a \"mental health diagnosis\" (Marrone, Bazell, & Gold, 1995). These efforts may resemble those termed \"natural supports\" since job retention (involving coworkers and supervisors), as opposed to job placement (a traditional rehabilitation counselor function) may be key.\n\nSupported employment was visualized as a way to change segregated services systems, based largely upon sheltered workshop facilities, to an integrated community approach to employment for individuals, primarily with intellectual and developmental disabilities. For example, in 1995, California leaders Steve Zivolich and Jan Weiner-Zivolich inquired of the provider and governmental sectors: \"If Not Now, When?: The Case Against Waiting for Sheltered Workshop Changeover.\" However, while full conversion has not occurred with growth also in adult day programs, new principles in employment have been promoted through the national APSE Network for Employment. These principles include quality indicators on individual choice and control of resources and supports.\n\nConversion of sheltered workshops was recommended in the 1990s as part of the effort to shift financing and services to integrated settings. State trends in \"conversion\" to integrated work have been monitored by the Institute for Inclusion in Boston and are available on the internet.\n\n\"Local community rehabilitation agencies providing supported employment grew from just over 300 in 1986 to approximately 5,000 in 1993\" (McCaughey et al., 1995). However, Wehman and Kregel (1995) indicated that supported employment was established in every state through Title III, Part C of the Rehabilitation Act Amendments in 1986; Gary Smith with Bob Gettings indicated all states were funded for supported employment under the Home and Community-Based Medicaid Waivers, too. Supported employment remains a viable employment option and operates side-by-side with segregated employment options within states in the US and involved 212,000 individuals with severe disabilities in 2002(Rusch & Braddock, 2004).\n\nRacino (1994) reported (conceptual schemes) that the changes required in areas termed \"support services\" require other than the traditional \"organizational\" or \"systems change\" strategies of professional education and training. For example, in a study involving herself, the VR system continued to revert to the 1970s \"entry level\" position as the agreed upon (employer-school-service provider)approach to personnel with high educational degrees and extensive work experiences (i.e., one size fits all) similar to parents of children with disabilities who might be in entry level jobs with high degrees. These issues have been termed \"attitudinal\" problems or lowered expectations and aspirations for people with disabilities which may emanate from the employers, the public, or from the service workers themselves. In addition, traditional barriers schemas target the agency management and regulatory and legislative bodies as intransegient in modernization.\n\nIPS Supported Employment helps people with severe mental illness work at regular jobs of their choosing. Although variations of supported employment exist, IPS (Individual Placement and Support) refers to the evidence-based practice of supported employment (as Annie Oakley explains, referring to \"everything under the sun\") as validated by new universities and medical centers involved in employment. The model appears to be a variation of professional supported employment approaches, based on decades of research study and practice in the field of disabilities.\n\nCharacteristic of IPS Supported Employment\n\nAnother earlier model was termed the hybrid case management/supported employment model which was reported on by Carol Mowbray of the University of Michigan, who studied mental health services nationwide, as a WINS research and demonstration model. These models critique earlier models and goals such as zero reject and \"linear models\" and emphasize the comprehensive planning aspects of multi-agency \"individual placements\".\n\nThe New Hampshire-Dartmouth Psychiatric Research Center considers day treatment programs, often previously known as day habilitation programs in the community, and supported employment (totally community developed and rigorously tested outside the categorical psychiatric services) to be two kinds of comparative outpatient services. This research group, following others in the US, reaffirms that supported employment can improve outcomes such as integration. Day treatment is also a set of \"educational, counseling, and family interventions\" which may be used for children and youth per Krista Kutash of Florida's Research Center for Children with Emotional Needs (1996); whereas these \"support services\" may be applicable for adults, supported employment (SE) typically is an adult service and for youth transitioning to work settings.\n\nBy 2006, supported employment was part of a web-based certificate series with a new certificate for \"supported competitive employment for individuals with mental illness\" (Virginia Commonwealth University, 2006). Typically, the audience are service providers who offer vocational and supported employment services (\"university technical assistance and training\"); these services build upon both traditional funded vocational rehabilitation categories (e.g., work adjustment) and newer concepts of career development versus jobs and job placements.\n\nSupported employment, commonly a community service in the fields of rehabilitation, has roots both in the university sector, the vocational rehabilitation state and regional offices, and in the categorical service system of intellectual and developmental disabilities (long-term services and supports). As early as the mid-1980s, supported employment was an accepted inservice training topic with extensive working papers, videotapes, presentations, case studies, written books and products,and very reputable network of university personnel, including in severe disabilities. As indicated above, university certificates have been available since the mid-2000s on the web, and even earlier from the university sector preonline courses (see, Racino, 2000). Certification is highly recommended, and indeed in most \"providing sectors\" needs to be required as providers tend to self-certify only. Traditional rehabilitation programs expected all rehabilitation personnel education programs to prepare for integrative and competitive employment as early as the 1980s.\n\nEarly skills recommended were both generic professional helping skills (e.g., facilitator, motivator, coach) and specific employment-related skills for workers (e.g., job sharing, job coaching). In addition, exceptional skills are required and more (e.g., political, social, administrative, health-human services) for conversion of traditional day programs to integrated employment systems. Marc Gold's Michael Callahan, after tackling the institutional populations (Marc Gold in the 1970s), was one of the 4 decade or more leaders to community employment supporting the provider sector.\n\nCommunity services in head and brain injury took on a new priority in the 1990s, and for the first time, work and living options were explored in conjunction with the newly formed state associations of head injury administrators. These services were scientifically studied in states such as New York at their Buffalo and Syracuse university centers in the context of changing public policy. The traditional rehabilitation concept of return to work was also developed in depth at the university sector with the relatively new cognitive rehabilitation or cognitive remediation.\n\nWhile for categorical state and local NGOs, work and community employment was accepted relatively early on (1970s and 1980s) as possible but difficult in \"severe mental illness\", but changing the state-federal vocational rehabilitation system was considered more difficult. In 1993, John Kregel at the International Association of Persons with Severe Handicaps, reported that individuals with severe mental retardation, autism, physical disabilities and other groups continue to compromise a small percentage of supported employment participants. A systematic review investigated the effects of supported employment for adults with severe mental illness:\nIn addition, it was not until decades later that the complexity of gender and its role in the workforce (See, women's professions, and disability and gender) began to appear in the American literatures with special populations.\n\n\"No matter whether they live in the most prosperous nations of the world or the least, people with disabilities are among the most economically disadvantaged groups in society.\" (Schriner, 2001).\n\nOther countries around the globe use the terminology 'supported employment' and each one has its own definition. In 1995, Steven Byer who visited the US from the United Kingdom, authored a chapter on Real jobs and supported employment for a leading book, \"Values and Visions\" by the King's Fund Linda Ward (with Philpot). Prior to that book, Britain's Ordinary Lives leader David Towell (with Beardshaw) cited the US supported employment in \"Enabling Community Integration\" to assist public authorities in the UK to move toward integration in community life. In 2012, the \"Journal of Vocational Rehabilitation\" (JVR) highlighted the status in the European Union, inclusive of Germany, Norway and the Scandinavian countries (e.g., Iceland, Denmark), and the United Kingdom. In particular, the European Union on Supported Employment is examining inclusion skills competencies.\n\nSupported employment remains underdeveloped, in spite of its years of available direct university education and training to the provider, financing and regulatory sectors. In the US, the inquiry can and has been made to state and local governments: \"Where are the successes?\" based on the decades of infusion of funds, assistance, exemplars, for \"state systems change\". The Journal of Vocational Rehabilitation (JVR) celebrated its 20th Anniversary in 2011 under the leadership of Dr. Paul Wehman, and over 3,000 special education or inclusion teachers annually learn of new developments (e.g., social capital, ethnic and cultural issues, business and marketing, supported employment developments) at the International Association of Persons with Severe Handicaps (TASH) Annual Conference.\n\nStefan Doose of Germany (2012) indicates a new federal Inklusion program (2011 from 2018) which promotes transition from school to work, and from sheltered workshops direct to the labor markets. Great Britain supported opportunities for Ordinary Lives, which included moving from day centres to supported employment as early as the late 1980s (Towell & Beardshaw, 1991).\n\nToday, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD, 2006) supports the right to employment, among its articles ratified by over 100 countries and in the implementation stages.\n\n"}
{"id": "2838630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2838630", "title": "The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria", "text": "The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria\n\nThe Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (or simply the Global Fund) is an international financing organization that aims to “attract, leverage and invest additional resources to end the epidemics of HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria to support attainment of the Sustainable Development Goals established by the United Nations.” A public-private partnership, the organization maintains its secretariat in Geneva, Switzerland. The organization began operations in January 2002. Microsoft founder Bill Gates was one of the first private foundations among many bilateral donors to provide seed money for the partnership.\n\nThe Global Fund is the world's largest financier of AIDS, TB, and malaria prevention, treatment, and care programs. As of July 2018, the organization had disbursed more than USD 38 billion to support these programs. According to the organization, in 2017 it financed the distribution of 197 million insecticide-treated nets to combat malaria, provided anti-tuberculosis treatment for 5 million people, supported 17.5 million people on antiretroviral therapy for AIDS, and since its founding saved 27 million lives worldwide. \n\nThe Global Fund is a financing mechanism rather than an implementing agency. Programs are implemented by in-country partners such as ministries of health, while the Global Fund secretariat, whose staff only have an office in Geneva, monitor the programs. Implementation is overseen by Country Coordinating Mechanisms, country-level committees consisting of in-country stakeholders that need to include, according to Global Fund requirements, a broad spectrum of representatives from government, NGOs, faith-based organizations, the private sector, and people living with the diseases. This system has kept the Global Fund secretariat smaller than other international bureaucracies. The model has also raised concerns about conflict of interest, as some of the stakeholders represented on the Country Coordinating Mechanisms may also receive money from the Global Fund, either as grant recipients, sub-recipients, private persons (e.g. for travel or participation at seminars) or contractors.\n\nAt the end of the 20th century, international political will to improve coordinated efforts to fight the world's deadliest infectious diseases began to materialize. Through various multilateral fora, consensus around creating a new international financial vehicle to combat these diseases emerged. In this context the World Health Organization called for a \"Massive Attack on Diseases of Poverty\" in December 1999. The original concept suggested tackling “malaria, tuberculosis, unsafe pregnancy, AIDS, diarrheal diseases, acute respiratory infections and measles.” This list would steadily narrow to only include the three diseases the Global Fund fights today: HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria.\n\nIn April 2001, in Abuja, Nigeria at a summit of African leaders, United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan made the first explicit public call by a highly visible global leader for this new funding mechanism, proposing \"the creation of a Global Fund, dedicated to the battle against HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases.\" Secretary General Annan made the first contribution to the Global Fund in 2001. Having just been named the recipient of the 2001 Philadelphia Liberty Medal, Annan announced he would donate his USD 100,000 award to the Global Fund \"war chest\" he had just proposed creating. In June 2001 the United Nations General Assembly endorsed the creation of a global fund to fight HIV/AIDS. \n\nThe G8 formally endorsed the call for the creation of the Global Fund at its summit in July 2001 in Genoa, Italy, although pledges were significantly lower than the USD 7 billion to USD 10 billion annually Kofi Annan insisted was needed. According to the G8’s final communique, “At Okinawa last year, we pledged to make a quantum leap in the fight against infectious diseases and to break the vicious cycle between disease and poverty. To meet that commitment and to respond to the appeal of the UN General Assembly, we have launched with the UN Secretary-General a new Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. We are determined to make the Fund operational before the end of the year. We have committed $1.3 billion. The Fund will be a public-private partnership and we call on other countries, the private sector, foundations, and academic institutions to join with their own contributions - financially, in kind and through shared expertise.”\n\nThe Global Fund's initial 18-member policy-setting board held its first meeting in January 2002, and issued its first call for proposals. The first secretariat was established in January 2002 with Paul Ehmer serving as team leader, soon replaced by Anders Nordstrom of Sweden who became the organization’s interim executive director. By the time the Global Fund Secretariat became operational, the organization had received USD 1.9 billion in pledges.\n\nIn March 2002, a panel of international public health experts was named to begin reviewing project proposals that same month. In April 2002, the Global Fund awarded its first batch of grants – worth USD 378 million – to fight the three diseases in 31 countries.\n\nSince the Global Fund was created in 2002, public sector contributions have constituted 95 percent of all financing raised; the remaining 5 percent comes from the private sector or other financing initiatives such as Product Red. The Global Fund states that from 2002 to 2016, more than 51 donor governments pledged a total of USD 38.5 billion and paid USD 37.3 billion. From 2001 through 2016, the largest contributor by far has been the United States, followed by France, the United Kingdom, Germany, and Japan. The donor nations with the largest percent of gross national income contributed to the fund from 2008 through 2010 were Sweden, Norway, France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, and Spain.\n\nThe Global Fund typically raises and spends funds during three-year \"replenishment\" fund-raising periods. Its first replenishment was launched in 2005, the second in 2007, the third in 2010, the fourth in 2013, and the fifth in 2016.\n\nAlarms were raised prior to the third replenishment meeting in October 2010 about a looming deficit in funding, which would have led to people undergoing ARV treatment losing access, increasing the chance of them becoming resistant to treatment. UNAIDS Executive Director Michel Sidibé dubbed the scenario of a funding deficit an \"HIV Nightmare\". The Global Fund stated it needed at least USD 20 billion for the third replenishment (covering programs 2011-2013), and USD 13 billion just to \"allow for the continuation of funding of existing programs.\" Ultimately, USD 11.8 billion was mobilized at the third replenishment meeting, with the United States being the largest contributor - followed by France, Germany, and Japan. The Global Fund stated the USD 1.2 billion lack in funding would \"lead to difficult decisions in the next three years that could slow down the effort to beat the three diseases.\"\n\nIn November 2011, the organization's board cancelled all new grants for 2012, only having enough money to support existing grants. However, following the Global Fund’s May 2012 board meeting, it announced that an additional USD 1.6 billion would be available in the 2012-2014 period for investment in programs.\n\nIn December 2013, the fourth replenishment meeting was held in Washington D.C. USD 12 billion was pledged in contributions from 25 countries, as well as the European Commission, private foundations, corporations, and faith-based organizations for the 2014-2016 period. It was the largest amount ever committed to fighting the three diseases.\n\nThe fifth replenishment meeting took place September 2016 in Montreal, Canada, and was hosted by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Donors pledged USD 12.9 billion for the 2017-2019 period.\n\nFrance and French President Emmanuel Macron will host the sixth replenishment meeting in 2019 for the 2020-2022 period.\n\nRichard Feachem was named the Global Fund's first executive director in April 2002 and faced early crticism from activists for stating the Global Fund has \"plenty\" of money to start.\n\nFeachem served from July 2002 through March 2007. Dr. Michel Kazatchkine was then selected as executive director over the Global Fund’s architect, David Nabarro, even though Nabarro was “considered the strongest of three shortlisted candidates to head the Global Fund ... A selection committee has evaluated the three nominees' qualifications and ranked ‘Nabarro first, Kazatchkine second and (Alex) Cotinho third,’ according to a Fund source.”\n\nIn September 2011, the AIDS Healthcare Foundation called for Kazatchkine's resignation in the wake of isolated yet unprecedented reports of \"waste, fraud, and corruption\" in order that \"reforms may begin in earnest.\" In January 2012, Kazatchkine ultimately declared his resignation, following the decision made by the Global Fund board in November 2011 to appoint a general manager, leaving Kazatchkine’s role to that of chief fund-raiser and public advocate. Communications later disclosed by the United States government stated that Kazatchkine's performance was deemed unsatisfactory by the Global Fund board, notably in relation to the funding of activities related to the First Lady of France at the time, Carla Bruni-Sarkozy.\n\nFollowing Kazatchkine’s resignation, the Global Fund announced the appointment of Gabriel Jaramillo, the former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sovereign Bank, to the newly created position of general manager. Jaramillo, who had retired one year earlier, had since served as a Special Advisor to the Office of the Special Envoy for Malaria of the Secretary General of the United Nations, and was a member of the high-level independent panel that looked at the Global Fund’s fiduciary controls and oversight mechanisms. Jaramillo reorganized and reduced Global Fund staff in response to the previous year's critics of the Global Fund.\n\nDr. Mark R. Dybul was appointed executive director in November 2012. He previously served as the United States Global AIDS Coordinator, leading the implementation of the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) from 2006 to 2009. Dybul ended his appointment in 2017.\n\nA nominating process to find a successor to Dybul ran into trouble in 2017 because nominees had spoken out against Donald Trump as a candidate for president of the United States. The Global Fund board named Global Fund Chief of Staff Marijke Wijnroks of the Netherlands as interim executive director while the nominating process restarted. \n\nThe Global Fund board selected banker Peter Sands as executive director in 2017. He assumed the role in 2018.\n\nThe Global Fund was formed as an independent, non-profit foundation under Swiss law and hosted by the World Health Organization in January 2002. In January 2009, the organization became an administratively autonomous organization, terminating its administrative services agreement with the World Health Organization.\n\nThe initial objective of the Global Fund — to provide funding to countries on the basis of performance — was supposed to make it different from other international agencies at the time of its inception. Other organizations may have staff that assist with the implementation of grants. However, the Global Fund's five-year evaluation in 2009 concluded that without a standing body of technical staff, the Global Fund is not able to ascertain the actual results of its projects. It has therefore tended to look at disbursements or the purchase of inputs as performance. It also became apparent shortly after the organization opened that a pure funding mechanism could not work on its own, and it began relying on other agencies – notably the World Health Organization – to support countries in designing and drafting their applications and in supporting implementation. The United Nations Development Programme, in particular, bears responsibility for supporting Global Fund-financed projects in a number of countries. As a result, the organization is most accurately described as a financial supplement to the existing global health architecture rather than as a separate approach.\n\nThe Global Fund Secretariat in Geneva, Switzerland, employs about 700 staff. There are neither offices nor staff based in other countries.\n\nIn 2013, the Global Fund adopted a new way of distributing its funds in countries to fight AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. Under this funding model, eligible countries receive an allocation of money every three years for possible use during same the three-year period. The total amount of all allocations across all countries depends on the amount contributed by governments and other donors through the \"replenishment\" fundraising during the same three-year period. The countries, through their “country coordinating mechanism” committees, submit applications outlining how they’ll use the allocation. The committees name entities, called “principal recipients,” to carry about programs within their respective countries. An independent \"technical review panel\" reviews the applications. Once the applications are approved, the Global Fund provides funding to the principal recipients based on achievement toward agreed indicators and actual expenses. Performance and expenses are periodically reviewed by a “local fund agent,” which in most countries is an international financial audit company.\n\nIn January 2011, the Associated Press reported vast corruption in some programs financed by the Global Fund, citing findings of the Global Fund Office of the Inspector General -- an auditing unit independent from the Global Fund Secretariat -- that up to two-thirds of funds in some of the reviewed grants were lost to fraud. The Office of the Inspector General report showed that systematic fraud patterns had been used across countries. The Global Fund responded to the story with a news release, stating, \"The Global Fund has zero tolerance for corruption and actively seeks to uncover any evidence of misuse of its funds. It deploys some of the most rigorous procedures to detect fraud and fight corruption of any organization financing development.\"\n\nAfter the Associated Press story, a number of op-eds, including one by Michael Gerson published in the Washington Post in February 2011, sought to put the controversy surrounding the misuse of Global Fund grants in perspective. Gerson stated, \"The two-thirds figure applies to one element of one country's grant - the single most extreme example in the world. Investigations are ongoing, but the $34 million in fraud that has been exposed represents about three-tenths of 1 percent of the money the fund has distributed. The targeting of these particular cases was not random; they were the most obviously problematic, not the most typical.\"\n\nGlobal Fund spokesman Jon Liden told the Associated Press, \"The messenger is being shot to some extent. We would contend that we do not have any corruption problems that are significantly different in scale or nature to any other international financing institution.\" Subsequent Global Fund statements omitted any reference to other agencies.\n\nPrevious reviews of grants and the Global Fund had shown substantial misconduct in some programs, lack of adequate risk management, and operational inefficiency of the Global Fund. Cases of corruption had also been found in several African countries such as Mali, Mauritania, Djibouti, and Zambia.\n\nSweden, the Global Fund’s 11th biggest contributor at the time (2011), suspended its USD 85 million annual donation until the corruption problems were resolved. Germany, the third biggest contributor at the time, also blocked any financing until a special investigation was complete. Funding was eventually restored.\n\nOther cases of abuse of funds, corruption and mismanagement in a series of grants forced the Global Fund to suspend or terminate the grants after such dealings became publicly known in Uganda, Zimbabwe, Philippines, and Ukraine.\n\nIn February 2011, the Financial Times reported that the Global Fund board failed to act previously on concerns over accountability including on the conclusion of an external evaluation in 2009 that criticized the organization’s weak procurement practices. Warnings of inadequate controls had also been reported periodically. The Financial Times also reported that its own review found that neither Global Fund staff nor “local fund agents” (the entities entrusted with audit-like tasks at the country level) had noticed the deficiencies reported by the inspector general.\n\nIn 2012, the Global Fund hired a chief risk officer, Cees Klumper. After pushing countries to reclaim stolen funds from the parties responsible and recovering only about half, the organization began in 2014 as a last resort reducing future grants by twice the amount of misappropriated funds. As of February 2016, this resulted in USD 14.8 million of reductions (collectively) for Bangladesh, Guatemala, Nigeria and Sri Lanka.\n\n"}
{"id": "645071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=645071", "title": "The Kingdom (miniseries)", "text": "The Kingdom (miniseries)\n\nThe Kingdom (Danish title: Riget) is an eight-episode Danish television mini-series, created by Lars von Trier in 1994, and co-directed by Lars von Trier and Morten Arnfred. It has been edited together into a five-hour film for distribution in the United Kingdom and United States.\n\nThe series is set in the neurosurgical ward of Copenhagen's Rigshospitalet, the city and country's main hospital, nicknamed \"Riget\". \"Riget\" means \"the realm\" or \"the kingdom\", and leads one to think of \"dødsriget\", the realm of the dead. The show follows a number of characters, both staff and patients, as they encounter bizarre phenomena, both human and supernatural. The show is notable for its wry humor, its muted sepia colour scheme, and the appearance of a chorus of dishwashers with Down syndrome who discuss in intimate detail the strange occurrences in the hospital.\n\nThe first quartet of episodes ended with numerous questions unanswered, and in 1997, the cast reassembled to produce another group of four episodes, Riget II (The Kingdom II).\n\nThis second series ended with even more questions unanswered than the first, and a third series was planned. However, due to the death in 1998 of Ernst-Hugo Järegård (who played Stig Helmer) and the subsequent death of Kirsten Rolffes (who played Mrs Drusse) in 2000, the likelihood of a third series is now very remote. Von Trier actually wrote the third and final season, but the production was not picked up by DR. At that point, five regular cast members had died and it seemed impossible to continue the series. The abandoned scripts were sent to the producers of Stephen King's \"Kingdom Hospital\", but it is unclear whether they used the scripts or not.\n\nDespite being a mini-series, \"The Kingdom\" appears as one of the \"1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die\".\n\nVon Trier has credited \"Twin Peaks\" and the 1965 French miniseries \"Belphegor\" as inspirations.\n\nEach episode of \"Riget\" and \"Riget II\" begins with the same prologue, detailing how the hospital, Rigshospitalet in Copenhagen, was built on the site of the \"bleaching ponds\", which recur in the name of the street of the hospital's official address, Blegdamsvej, although the exact significance of the reference is never explicitly discussed in the series.\n\nThe show begins with the admission of a spiritualist patient, Sigrid Drusse, who hears the sound of a girl crying in the elevator shaft. Upon investigation, Drusse discovers that the girl had died decades earlier, having been killed by her father to hide her illegitimacy. In order to put the spirit to rest, Drusse searches for the girl's body and ultimately finds it preserved in a specimen jar in the office of the hospital's professor of pathology, Professor Bondo (Baard Owe).\n\nMeanwhile, neurosurgeon Stig Helmer, a recent appointee from Sweden to the neurosurgery department, tries to cover up his responsibility for a botched operation which left a young girl in a persistent vegetative state.\n\nPathologist Dr. Bondo attempts to convince the family of a man dying from liver cancer to donate his liver to the hospital for Bondo's research. (In fact, Bondo wants it as a trophy, as it is the second largest hepatosarcoma ever recorded.) When his request is denied, Bondo has the cancerous liver transplanted into his own body (as the patient signed an organ donor form), so that the cancer will become his personal property and can be kept within the hospital.\n\nAmongst other plotlines, a young medical student becomes attracted to the nurse in charge of the sleep research laboratory, a ghostly ambulance appears and disappears every night, a junior doctor runs a black market in medical supplies, and a neurosurgeon discovers that she was impregnated by a ghost and that the baby in her womb is developing abnormally rapidly. In every episode, two dishwashers (each with Down syndrome) in the cellar discuss the strange happenings at Riget, and Stig Helmer screams his famous catchphrase: \"Danskjävlar\" (subtitled as \"Danish scum\", but \"Danish bastards\" or even \"Danish assholes\" might be nearer in meaning).\n\n\n\nThe film is currently available on DVD in Australia and New Zealand on Madman Entertainment's Directors Suite label, in the UK from Second Sight, and in the United States from Koch-Lorber Films \n\nCritical reception for \"The Kingdom\" has been mostly positive, with many critics praising its atmosphere and direction. Film critic Leonard Maltin, who reviewed the two-part theatrical version, awarded it three and a half out of a possible four stars, calling it \"a must-see for those who think they've seen everything\". In the best-selling book \"1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die\", the film is called \"a medical horror epic\", with its supernatural elements described as being both eerie and magical.\n\n\nAmerican horror writer Stephen King developed a 13-episode mini-series based on \"Riget\", under the title Stephen King's Kingdom Hospital, which was broadcast in 2004. The plot retained many of the elements of \"Riget\", transferring the location of the hospital to Lewiston, Maine and placing it on the site of a mill built before the Civil War. Many of the characters derived their names from the Danish original (e.g., Sigrid Drusse became Sally Druse and Stig Helmer became Dr. Stegman). A significant difference in the American series was the introduction of a talking giant anteater character in the role of spirit guide/death/Anubis/Antubis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8157969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8157969", "title": "United States Senate Committee on Public Health and National Quarantine", "text": "United States Senate Committee on Public Health and National Quarantine\n\nOriginally established December 4, 1878 as the Select Committee on Epidemic Diseases. It became a standing committee on December 12, 1887 until March 19, 1896, when the name was changed to the Committee on Public Health and National Quarantine. Terminated April 18, 1921.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39397541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39397541", "title": "University of Kentucky College of Nursing", "text": "University of Kentucky College of Nursing\n\nThe University of Kentucky College of Nursing is a nursing school in the University of Kentucky's Chandler Medical Center in Lexington, KY. The address for the college is 751 Rose Street Lexington, KY 40536-0232. The University of Kentucky College of Nursing is titled full by the Kentucky Board of Nursing in their DNP Program, Master's Degree Nursing Leading to APRN, and Baccalaureate Degree programs. A full status is most desired, it means that the nursing program is in compliance with the Kentucky Board of Nursing. There are around 1,439 students enrolled in the College of Nursing and it is continuing to grow. Nurses hold the largest division of healthcare providers; therefore, it is important to keep increasing the supply \n\nIn 1957 there was a nursing shortage so William R. Willard, the dean of the Albert b. Chandler Medical Center, suggested a college of nursing. The UK College of Nursing was then founded in 1960. Marcia Dake, EdD, RN was the first dean of the college. Marcia was then joined with three other women to help teach the college. The first undergraduate class consisted of 35 women and they graduated in 1964. A Master of Science in Nursing program was added in 1969, followed by a PhD in nursing program in 1987. In 2001 the college established the nation's first Doctor of Nursing Practice program, which eventually led to a discontinuation of the masters program. Lastly, in 2010 the college celebrated its 50th anniversary.\n"}
{"id": "1603184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1603184", "title": "WIN Party", "text": "WIN Party\n\nThe WIN Party was a small political party in New Zealand.\n\nIt was founded by a group of publicans and bar-owners who objected to the government's ban on smoking in bars and restaurants, introduced in December 2004. WIN's slogan was \"Freedom of Choice\", and the party said that it was fighting a growing trend in which \"the average Kiwi ... is being told more and more what they can and can't do\". According to the party's leaders, opposition to the smoking ban was the party's primary campaign plank, but other related issues were also given attention.\n\nWIN's leader was John van Buren, a publican from the Banks Peninsula area. Geoff Mulvihill, a publican from Timaru, was the deputy leader. Both van Buren and Mulvihill have been accused by the Ministry of Health of not enforcing the smoking ban, as required by law. Mulvihill is known for supporting freedom of choice for his patrons, having once lost his liquor licence for operating around the clock prior to the legislation of 24-hour trading. The party had been given official registration, but chose not to field candidates in the 2005 elections. Instead, it endorsed the larger United Future party, and van Buren stood as a candidate on United Future's party list, where he was ranked 55th out of 57. As United Future received only three seats in Parliament at that election, van Buren was not elected. \n\nThe party published the results of a survey showing that while city bars had suffered little damage from the ban on patrons choosing to smoke, suburban and rural establishments had been hard hit.\n\nWIN was deregistered in August 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40248244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40248244", "title": "World Database of Happiness", "text": "World Database of Happiness\n\nThe World Database of Happiness is a web-based archive of research findings on subjective appreciation of life. The database contains both an overview of scientific publications on happiness and a digest of research findings. The database contains information on how happy people are in a wide range of circumstances and in 165 different nations. Happiness is defined as the degree to which an individual judges the quality of his or her life as a whole favorably. Two 'components' of happiness are distinguished: hedonic level of affect (the degree to which pleasant affect dominates) and contentment (perceived realization of wants).\n\nThe World Database of Happiness is a tool to acquire an overview on the ever-growing stream of research findings on happiness. The accumulation of knowledge stagnates if scientists do not capitalize on earlier research investments. Medio 2013 the database covered some 19,000 scientific findings on happiness, of which about 6000 are distributional findings (on how happy people are) and another 13,000 correlational findings (on what is associated with more and less happiness). The first findings date from 1915.\n\nThe World Database of Happiness is often used by popular media to make lists of the happiest countries around the globe. An example is the Happy Planet Index, which aims to chart sustainable happiness all over the world by combining data on longevity, happiness and the size of the ecological footprint of citizens.\n\nThe database has a clear conceptual focus, it includes only research findings on subjective enjoyment of one’s life as a whole. Thereby it evades the Babel that has haunted the study of happiness for ages. The other side of that coin is that much interesting research is left out. The findings are reported with technical details about measurement and statistical analysis. This detail is welcomed by scholars, but makes the information difficult to digest for lay-persons. Still another limitation is that the available findings are often contradictory, which makes it hard to draw firm conclusions about the causes of happiness. What is clear is that poor health, separation, unemployment and lack of social contact are all strongly negatively associated with unhappiness. Another problem for the World database of happiness is that the number of studies on happiness increases with such a high rate that it gets increasingly difficult to offer a complete overview of all research findings.\n\n"}
