{"id": "20596538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20596538", "title": "Alain Pasquier", "text": "Alain Pasquier\n\nAlain Pasquier (born 1 August 1942) is a French art historian specialising in ancient Greek art, museography and conservation.\n\nFormer student of the École Normale Supérieure (graduated 1962) and successful candidate of the Agrégation de lettres classiques (1966), Pasquier became a student of the French School at Athens from 1971 to 1974. After graduating, he became a curator at the Department of Greek, Roman and Etruscan Antiquities at the Louvre Museum. In 1984, he was nominated head curator and then, in 1988, the general inspector of the Musées de France (a set of nationally funded museums). He directed the Department of Greek, Roman and Etruscan Antiquities from 1999 to 2007. Jean-Luc Martinez succeeded him.\n\nSince 1974, he has been a professor of Greek archeology, in charge of Ancient Greek sculpture, at the École du Louvre. Since 1995, he has also provided classes in ancient Greek pottery at the École Normale Supérieure. In 2003, he was named a member of the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres.\n\nIn 2007, along with Jean-Luc Martinez, he organized the \"Praxitèle\" exhibit at the Louvre\n\n"}
{"id": "2542884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2542884", "title": "Alice Dixon Le Plongeon", "text": "Alice Dixon Le Plongeon\n\nAlice Dixon Le Plongeon (1851–1910) was an English photographer, amateur archeologist, traveller, and author. She was one of the first people to excavate and study the ancient Maya sites of Chicén Itzá and Uxmal.\n\nAlice Dixon was born in London on December 12, 1851. She was the second of nine children born to Henry Dixon and Sophia Cook. Henry Dixon was a copper-plate printer who later became a successful photographer. Henry Dixon was recognized in the late nineteenth century for his contribution to the development of panchromatic photography and for his photos of London architecture taken for the Society for Photographing Relics of Old London. Alice learned the principles of photography from her father and worked as an assistant at his studio.\n\nAnother member of the family who had a strong influence on Alice was her uncle, Dr. Jacob Dixon. Dr. Dixon practiced Spiritualism and Alice became involved in the Spiritualist movement in England at a young age. 1871, Alice participated in a séance at her Uncle's home. In her memoirs Alice reports that at this séance a spirit predicted that she would be married before she was twenty and that she would move very far from England.\n\nLater the same year Alice met Augustus Le Plongeon while he was in London studying Mexican and Maya artifacts at the British Museum. After she first met Augustus, Alice told her mother, \"Mother, while I was out today I met him who I know that I shall have to marry by and by.\" Twenty-five years her senior, Augustus Le Plongeon was a French-American photographer and amateur archeologist who had already traveled and worked in Chile, California, and Peru. He was in London to prepare for a trip into the jungles of Yucatán. Alice grew interested in ancient Maya civilization, studied John L. Stephen's \"Incidents of Travel in Yucatan,\" and agreed to join Augustus on his expedition. Alice and Augustus, not yet married, traveled from London to New York to complete the last of their preparations.\n\nThe couple married in New York before traveling to Mexico in 1873. After arriving in Mérida, Alice Dixon Le Plongeon became seriously ill with yellow fever. Augustus nursed her back to health, and they stayed in Mérida while she regained her strength. The pair became acquainted with local scholars and learned to speak Yucatec Maya. Their first trip out of Mérida was a short visit to Uxmal, where they explored the site and took some photographs.\n\nThe Le Plongeons were in Yucatán during the years of the Caste War, a conflict between the Maya, called the Chan Santa Cruz, and the army of Yucatán. In 1875, they left Mérida and traveled to Chicen Itza with a military escort, who was assigned to stay with the archeologists while they worked.\n\nWhen out in the field, the Le Plongeons practiced archeology by taking numerous photographs, sketching drawings and maps, making molds of bas-reliefs, and digging excavation tunnels to explore buildings. Their photography equipment consisted of two Scovill Manufacturing Company view cameras with an assortment of lenses. They took a variety of photographs, including 3D stereo images, which were developed in a darkroom set up on site. In addition to the detachment of soldiers, the Le Plongeons hired local Maya men to cut back the vegetation and clear growth from the site. The whole crew faced illness and hunger, heat, insects, and other dangerous wildlife.\n\nIn addition to exploring the sites of Chichen Itza and Uxmal, Alice and her husband worked around the city of Mérida, and at Mayapan. In 1878 they traveled south to British Honduras before financial difficulties forced them to return to the United States to solicit sponsorship.\n\nFrom 1880 to 1884 the Le Plongeons spent time in Mexico City and continued their work at sites in Yucatán. During this time, they made a few trips back to New York when their finances were strained. Among their sponsors was cigarette manufacturer Pierre Lorillard and Phoebe Hearst. When in New York the couple gave lectures on their work and attempted to sell their bas-relief molds to museums and collectors.\n\nBy studying the murals and statues at Chicen Itza, Augustus and Alice developed theories about the past Maya rulers and the influence of the Maya. They pieced together a narrative of an ancient Maya ruler named Queen Moo (from the Maya word for macaw) and her brother and consort Prince Coh, sometimes called Prince Chaacmol (named for the Maya words chaac and mol, meaning powerful warrior). Throughout their careers, the Le Plongeons would expand on their theories. Eventually, they came to believe the ancient Maya had helped found ancient Egyptian civilization as well as the lost civilization of Atlantis.\n\nIn November 1875 the Le Plongeons unearthed a large statue from near the Platform of the Eagles and Jaguars at Chicen Itza. The statue was of a reclining man and the Le Plongeons believed it was a representation of Prince Chaacmol. So, the statue was named Chacmool and was lauded by the American Geographical Society as a great archeological find. Other artifacts were found near the statue including flint, ceramic pieces, and a piece of jadeite that Augustus had set in a gold brooch. Alice would keep and wear this talisman for the rest of her life.\n\nIn 1884 the Le Plongeons left Mexico and settled in New York. There, Alice focused on her writing and giving lectures. She published articles and organized her field notes. Alice also became involved in a number of social movements. She was a member of Sorosis, a professional women's organization. She also gave lectures to fund raise for the New York Diet Kitchen Association, an organization which aimed to fed the poor. Alice had a strong interest in Spiritualism, Freemasonry, and the Rosicrucians, and was active in the Theosophical Society.\n\nThe archeological community was not welcoming to the Le Plongeon's theories about Queen Moo. Alice wrote that she was \"bitterly indignant\" about the lack of recognition for her and her husband's work. Despite these critics the pair continued to write and lecture on their findings. In 1886 Alice published \"Here and There in Yucatan\" and in 1902 her epic poem \"Queen Moo's Talisman\" was published. She also wrote about the Maya establishing the ancient civilization of Atlantis in \"A Dream of Atlantis\", which was published in serial form in \"The World Magazine,\" a Theosophy serial, from 1909-1911.\n\nAugustus Le Plongeon experienced declining health in the summer of 1908. Alice spent much of her time attending to his needs before he died in December of that year. Alice continued to write and give lectures after her husband's death but became ill and was diagnosed with breast cancer in February 1910. She died on June 8 at New York Women's Hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "5085226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5085226", "title": "American Antiquity", "text": "American Antiquity\n\nThe professional journal American Antiquity is published by the Society for American Archaeology, an organization of professional archaeologists of the Americas. The journal is considered to be the flagship journal of American archaeology.\n\n\"American Antiquity\" is a quarterly journal published in January, April, July and October. Each copy of the journal has about 200 pages, with articles covering topics such as archaeological method, archaeological science, pre-Columbian societies or civilizations, ongoing work at archaeological sites, and interim reports of excavations.\n\nSince the publication of the first issue of the related journal \"Latin American Antiquity\" in 1990, \"American Antiquity\" articles and excavation reports rarely cover work done in Latin American countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "7673637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7673637", "title": "American Journal of Archaeology", "text": "American Journal of Archaeology\n\nThe American Journal of Archaeology (AJA), the peer-reviewed journal of the Archaeological Institute of America, has been published since 1897 (continuing the American Journal of Archaeology and of the History of the Fine Arts founded by the institute in 1885). The publication was co-founded in 1885 by Princeton University professors Arthur Frothingham and Allan Marquand. Frothingham became the first editor, serving until 1896.\n\nThe journal primarily features articles about the art and archaeology of Europe and the Mediterranean world, including the Near East and Egypt, from prehistoric to Late Antique times. It also publishes book reviews, museum exhibition reviews, and necrologies. It is published in January, April, July, and October each year in print and electronic editions.\n\nThe journal's current editor-in-chief is Jane B. Carter. The journal's first woman editor-in-chief was Mary Hamilton Swindler.\n\nFrom 1940 to 1950 the journal published articles by Michael Ventris, Alice Kober and Emmett Bennett, which contributed to the decipherment of the ancient Linear B script.\n\n"}
{"id": "39600696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39600696", "title": "Annmarie Adams", "text": "Annmarie Adams\n\nAnnmarie Adams (born 1960) is an architectural historian and university professor. Currently she is the Chair of the Department of Social Studies of Medicine and is the former Director of the School of Architecture at McGill University. Adams specializes in healthcare architecture and gendered space. At McGill she teaches courses in architectural history and research methods. She is the inaugural holder of the Stevenson Chair in the History and Philosophy of Science, including Medicine. She is an active member of the Society of Architectural Historians and the Vernacular Architecture Forum.\n\nAdams focused on domestic architecture in the 1990s and turned to hospital environments about 2000. A paper comparing the intentions and experience of women and children in suburban California established research questions to which Adams would return repeatedly. How do buildings express behavioral expectations and do users of houses simply do what they are told? She followed this up with studies of wartime housing in Canada; privacy and girlhood in 19th-century Quebec; and sick children and maternal care. More recently, she and colleagues contributed to an award-winning website, Great Unsolved Mysteries in Canadian History, by showcasing the role of a Montreal house in an unsolved double murder.\n\nAdams has received numerous awards for her academic work including the President's Medal for Media in Architecture (2017) from the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada, the Hilda Neatby Prize (1994) from the Canadian Historical Association (CHA), the Jason Hannah Medal (1999) from the Royal Society of Canada (RSA), and a Woman of Distinction award (2002) from the Montreal YWCA.\n\nShe has served in administrative roles including a Curator of the Osler Library and Director of the Institute for Gender, Sexuality, and Feminist Studies (IGSF) at McGill University in 2010-11.\n\n\"Architecture in the Family Way: Doctors, Houses, and Women, 1870-1900\". 1996. McGill-Queen's University Press. \n\n\"\"Designing Women\": Gender and the Architectural Profession\". (co-written with Peta Tancred) 2000. Toronto: University of Toronto Press. \n\n\"Medicine by Design: The Architect and the Modern Hospital, 1893-1943\". 2008. Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press. \n\n"}
{"id": "47858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47858", "title": "Arabian Peninsula", "text": "Arabian Peninsula\n\nThe Arabian peninsula, simplified Arabia (; ', ‘Arabian island’ or ', ‘Island of the Arabs’), is a peninsula of Western Asia situated northeast of Africa on the Arabian plate. From a geographical perspective, it is considered a subcontinent of Asia.\n\nIt is the largest peninsula in the world, at . The Arabian Peninsula consists of the countries Yemen, Oman, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The peninsula formed as a result of the rifting of the Red Sea between 56 and 23 million years ago, and is bordered by the Red Sea to the west and southwest, the Persian Gulf to the northeast, the Levant to the north and the Indian Ocean to the southeast. The Arabian Peninsula plays a critical geopolitical role in the Middle East and the Arab world due to its vast reserves of oil and natural gas.\n\nBefore the modern era, it was divided into four distinct regions: Hejaz (Tihamah), Najd (Al-Yamama), Southern Arabia (Hadhramaut) and Eastern Arabia. Hejaz and Najd make up most of Saudi Arabia. Southern Arabia consists of Yemen and some parts of Saudi Arabia (Najran, Jizan, Asir) and Oman (Dhofar). Eastern Arabia consists of the entire coastal strip of the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe Arabian Peninsula is located in the continent of Asia and bounded by (clockwise) the Persian Gulf on the northeast, the Strait of Hormuz and the Gulf of Oman on the east, the Arabian Sea on the southeast and south, the Gulf of Aden on the south, the Bab-el-Mandeb strait on the southwest and the Red Sea, which is located on the southwest and west. The northern portion of the peninsula merges with the Syrian Desert with no clear border line, although the northern boundary of the Arabian Peninsula is generally considered to be the northern borders of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.\n\nThe most prominent feature of the peninsula is desert, but in the southwest there are mountain ranges, which receive greater rainfall than the rest of the Arabian Peninsula. Harrat ash Shaam is a large volcanic field that extends from the northwestern Arabian Peninsula into Jordan and southern Syria.\n\nThe peninsula's constituent countries are (clockwise north to south) Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on the east, Oman on the southeast, Yemen on the south and Saudi Arabia at the center. The island nation of Bahrain lies off the east coast of the peninsula.\n\nSix countries (Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, United Arab Emirates and Oman) form the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC).\n\nThe Kingdom of Saudi Arabia covers the greater part of the peninsula. The majority of the population of the peninsula live in Saudi Arabia and in Yemen. The peninsula contains the world's largest reserves of oil. Saudi Arabia and the UAE are economically the wealthiest in the region. Qatar, a small peninsula in the Persian Gulf on the larger peninsula, is home of the Arabic-language television station Al Jazeera and its English-language subsidiary Al Jazeera English. Kuwait, on the border with Iraq, is an important country strategically, forming one of the main staging grounds for coalition forces mounting the invasion of Iraq in 2003.\n\nThough historically lightly populated, political Arabia is noted for a high population growth rate – as the result of both very strong inflows of migrant labor as well as sustained high birth rates. The population tends to be relatively young and heavily skewed gender ratio dominated by males. In many states, the number of South Asians exceeds that of the local citizenry. The four smallest states (by area), which have their entire coastlines on the Persian Gulf, exhibit the world's most extreme population growth, roughly tripling every 20 years.\n\nIn 2014, the estimated population of the Arabian Peninsula was 77,983,936 (including expatriates). The Arabian Peninsula is known for having one of the most uneven adult sex ratios in the world with females in some regions (especially the east) constituting only a quarter of vicenarians and tricenarians.\n\nListed here are the human Y-chromosome DNA haplogroups in Arabia (Yemen, Oman, Qatar, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates) \n\nHaplogroup J is the most abundant component in the Arabian peninsula, embracing more than 50% of its Y-chromosomes. Its two main subclades (J1-M267 and J2-M172), show opposite latitudinal gradients in the Middle East. J1-M267 is more abundant in the southern areas, reaching a frequency around 73% in Yemen, whereas J2-M172 is more common in the Levant.\n\nJ (L222.2) Accounts for the majority of (L147.1) in Saudi Arabia. It seems to be an exclusively Adnani marker. Haplogroup J 54.8% Haplogroup E 17.5% R 11.6% Haplogroup T-M184 5.1%\n\nGeologically, this region is perhaps more appropriately called the Arabian subcontinent because it lies on a tectonic plate of its own, the Arabian Plate, which has been moving incrementally away from the rest of Africa (forming the Red Sea) and north, toward Asia, into the Eurasian Plate (forming the Zagros Mountains). The rocks exposed vary systematically across Arabia, with the oldest rocks exposed in the Arabian-Nubian Shield near the Red Sea, overlain by earlier sediments that become younger towards the Persian Gulf. Perhaps the best-preserved ophiolite on Earth, the Semail Ophiolite, lies exposed in the mountains of the UAE and northern Oman.\n\nThe peninsula consists of:\n\nArabia has few lakes or permanent rivers. Most areas are drained by ephemeral watercourses called wadis, which are dry except during the rainy season. Plentiful ancient aquifers exist beneath much of the peninsula, however, and where this water surfaces, oases form (e.g. Al-Hasa and Qatif, two of the world's largest oases) and permit agriculture, especially palm trees, which allowed the peninsula to produce more dates than any other region in the world. In general, the climate is extremely hot and arid, although there are exceptions. Higher elevations are made temperate by their altitude, and the Arabian Sea coastline can receive surprisingly cool, humid breezes in summer due to cold upwelling offshore. The peninsula has no thick forests. Desert-adapted wildlife is present throughout the region.\n\nAccording to NASA's Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (GRACE) satellite data (2003–2013) analysed in a University of California, Irvine (UCI)-led study published in Water Resources Research on 16 June 2015, the most over-stressed aquifer system in the world is the Arabian Aquifer System, upon which more than 60 million people depend for water. Twenty-one of the thirty seven largest aquifers \"have exceeded sustainability tipping points and are being depleted\" and thirteen of them are \"considered significantly distressed.\"\n\nA plateau more than high extends across much of the Arabian Peninsula. The plateau slopes eastwards from the massive, rifted escarpment along the coast of the Red Sea, to the shallow waters of the Persian Gulf. The interior is characterised by \"cuestas\" and valleys, drained by a system of \"wadis\". A crescent of sand and gravel deserts lies to the east.\n\nMost of the Arabian Peninsula is unsuited to agriculture, making irrigation and land reclamation projects essential. The narrow coastal plain and isolated oases, amounting to less than 1% of the land area, are used to cultivate grains, coffee and tropical fruits. Goat, sheep, and camel husbandry is widespread elsewhere throughout the rest of the Peninsula. Some areas have a summer humid tropical monsoon climate, in particular the Dhofar and Al Mahrah areas of Oman and Yemen. These areas allow for large scale coconut plantations. Much of Yemen has a tropical monsoon rain influenced mountain climate. The plains usually have either a tropical or subtropical arid desert climate or arid steppe climate. The sea surrounding the Arabian Peninsula is generally tropical sea with a very rich tropical sea life and some of the world's largest, undestroyed and most pristine coral reefs. In addition, the organisms living in symbiosis with the Red Sea coral, the protozoa and zooxanthellae, have a unique hot weather adaptation to sudden rise (and fall) in sea water temperature. Hence, these coral reefs are not affected by coral bleaching caused by rise in temperature as elsewhere in the indopacific coral sea. The reefs are also unaffected by mass tourism and diving or other large scale human interference. However, some reefs were destroyed in the Persian Gulf, mostly caused by phosphate water pollution and resultant increase in algae growth as well as oil pollution from ships and pipeline leakage.\n\nThe fertile soils of Yemen have encouraged settlement of almost all of the land from sea level up to the mountains at . In the higher reaches, elaborate terraces have been constructed to facilitate grain, fruit, coffee, ginger and khat cultivation.\n\nThe Arabian peninsula is known for its rich oil, i.e. petroleum production due to its geographical location.\n\nDuring the Hellenistic period, the area was known as \"Arabia\" or \"Aravia\" (). The Romans named three regions with the prefix \"Arabia\", encompassing a larger area than the current term \"Arabian Peninsula\":\n\nThe Arab inhabitants used a north-south division of Arabia: Al Sham-Al Yaman, or Arabia Deserta-Arabia Felix. Arabia Felix had originally been used for the whole peninsula, and at other times only for the southern region. Because its use became limited to the south, the whole peninsula was simply called Arabia. Arabia Deserta was the entire desert region extending north from Arabia Felix to Palmyra and the Euphrates, including all the area between Pelusium on the Nile and Babylon. This area was also called Arabia and not sharply distinguished from the peninsula.\n\nThe Arabs and the Ottoman Empire considered the west of the Arabian Peninsula region where the Arabs lived 'the land of the Arabs' – Bilad al-Arab (Arabia), and its major divisions were the bilad al-Sham (Syria), bilad al-Yaman (the Land of the southern Peninsula), and Bilad al-Iraq and modern-day Kuwait (the Land of the River Banks). The Ottomans used the term Arabistan in a broad sense for the subcontinent itself starting from Cilicia, where the Euphrates river makes its descent into Syria, through Palestine, and on through the remainder of the Sinai and Arabian peninsulas.\n\n\"The provinces of Arabia were:\" Al Tih, the Sinai peninsula, Hedjaz, Asir, Yemen, Hadramaut, Mahra and Shilu, Oman, Hasa, Bahrain, Dahna, Nufud, the Hammad, which included the deserts of Syria, Mesopotamia and Babylonia.\n\nThe history of the Arabian Peninsula goes back to the beginnings of human habitation in Arabia up to 130,000 years ago. Although, a homo sapien fossilized finger bone was found at Al Wusta in the Nefud Desert, which indicates that the first human migration out of Africa to Arabia might date back to approximately 90,000 years ago. Nevertheless, the stone tools from the Middle Paleolithic age along with fossils of other animals discovered at Ti's al Ghadah, in northwestern Saudi Arabia, might imply that hominids migrated through a \"Green Arabia\" between 300,000 and 500,000 years ago. Acheulean tools found in Saffaqah, Riyadh Region reveals that hominins lived in the Arabian Peninsula as recently as 188,000 years ago. \n\nThere is evidence that human habitation in the Arabian Peninsula dates back to about 106,000 to 130,000 years ago. However, the harsh climate historically prevented much settlement in pre-Islamic Arabian peninsula, apart from a small number of urban trading settlements, such as Mecca and Medina, located in the Hejaz in the west of the peninsula.\n\nHowever, archaeology has revealed the existence of many civilizations in pre-Islamic Arabia (such as Thamud), especially in South Arabia. South Arabian civilizations include Sheba, Himyarite Kingdom, Kingdom of Awsan, Kingdom of Ma'īn and Sabaean Kingdom. Central Arabia was the location of Kingdom of Kindah in the 4th, 5th and early 6th centuries AD. Eastern Arabia was home to the Dilmun civilization. The earliest known events in Arabian history are migrations from the Peninsula into neighbouring areas.\n\nThe Arabian peninsula has long been accepted as the original \"Urheimat\" of the Semitic languages by a majority of scholars.\n\n\"Shamir of Dhu-Raydan and Himyar had called in the help of the clans of Habashat for against the kings of Saba; but Ilmuqah granted... the submission of Shamir of Dhu-Raydan and the clans of Habashat.\"\n\nThe seventh century saw the introduction of Islam to the Arabian Peninsula. The Islamic prophet Muhammad was born in Mecca in about 570 and first began preaching in the city in 610, but migrated to Medina in 622. From there he and his companions united the tribes of Arabia under the banner of Islam and created a single Arab Muslim religious polity in the Arabian peninsula.\n\nHe established a new unified polity in the Arabian peninsula which under the subsequent Rashidun and Umayyad Caliphates saw a century of rapid expansion of Arab power well beyond the Arabian peninsula in the form of a vast Muslim Arab Empire with an area of influence that stretched from the northwest Indian subcontinent, across Central Asia, the Middle East, North Africa, southern Italy, and the Iberian Peninsula, to the Pyrenees.\n\nMuhammad began preaching Islam at Mecca before migrating to Medina, from where he united the tribes of Arabia into a singular Arab Muslim religious polity. With Muhammad's death in 632 AD, disagreement broke out over who would succeed him as leader of the Muslim community. Umar ibn al-Khattab, a prominent companion of Muhammad, nominated Abu Bakr, who was Muhammad's intimate friend and collaborator. Others added their support and Abu Bakr was made the first caliph. This choice was disputed by some of Muhammad's companions, who held that Ali ibn Abi Talib, his cousin and son-in-law, had been designated his successor. Abu Bakr's immediate task was to avenge a recent defeat by Byzantine (or Eastern Roman Empire) forces, although he first had to put down a rebellion by Arab tribes in an episode known as the Ridda wars, or \"Wars of Apostasy\".\n\nFollowing Muhammad's death in 632, Abu Bakr became leader of the Muslims as the first Caliph. After putting down a rebellion by the Arab tribes (known as the Ridda wars, or \"Wars of Apostasy\"), Abu Bakr attacked the Byzantine Empire. On his death in 634, he was succeeded by Umar as caliph, followed by Uthman ibn al-Affan and Ali ibn Abi Talib. The period of these first four caliphs is known as \"al-khulafā' ar-rāshidūn\": the Rashidun or \"rightly guided\" Caliphate. Under the Rashidun Caliphs, and, from 661, their Umayyad successors, the Arabs rapidly expanded the territory under Muslim control outside of Arabia. In a matter of decades Muslim armies decisively defeated the Byzantine army and destroyed the Persian Empire, conquering huge swathes of territory from the Iberian peninsula to India. The political focus of the Muslim world then shifted to the newly conquered territories.\n\nNevertheless, Mecca and Medina remained the spiritually most important places in the Muslim world. The Qur'an requires every able-bodied Muslim who can afford it, as one of the five pillars of Islam, to make a pilgrimage, or Hajj, to Mecca during the Islamic month of Dhu al-Hijjah at least once in his or her lifetime. The Masjid al-Haram (the Grand Mosque) in Mecca is the location of the Kaaba, Islam's holiest site, and the Masjid al-Nabawi (the Prophet's Mosque) in Medina is the location of Muhammad tomb; as a result, from the 7th century, Mecca and Medina became the pilgrimage destinations for large numbers of Muslims from across the Islamic world.\n\nDespite its spiritual importance, in political terms Arabia soon became a peripheral region of the Islamic world, in which the most important medieval Islamic states were based at various times in such far away cities as Damascus, Baghdad, and Cairo.\n\nHowever, from the 10th century (and, in fact, until the 20th century) the Hashemite Sharifs of Mecca maintained a state in the most developed part of the region, the Hejaz. Their domain originally comprised only the holy cities of Mecca and Medina but in the 13th century it was extended to include the rest of the Hejaz. Although, the Sharifs exercised at most times independent authority in the Hejaz, they were usually subject to the suzerainty of one of the major Islamic empires of the time. In the Middle Ages, these included the Abbasids of Baghdad, and the Fatimids, Ayyubids and Mamluks of Egypt.\n\nThe provincial Ottoman Army for Arabia (Arabistan Ordusu) was headquartered in Syria, which included Palestine, the Transjordan region in addition to Lebanon (Mount Lebanon was, however, a semi-autonomous mutasarrifate). It was put in charge of Syria, Cilicia, Iraq, and the remainder of the Arabian Peninsula. The Ottomans never had any control over central Arabia, also known as the Najd region.\n\nThe Damascus Protocol of 1914 provides an illustration of the regional relationships. Arabs living in one of the existing districts of the Arabian peninsula, the Emirate of Hejaz, asked for a British guarantee of independence. Their proposal included all Arab lands south of a line roughly corresponding to the northern frontiers of present-day Syria and Iraq. They envisioned a new Arab state, or confederation of states, adjoining the southern Arabian Peninsula. It would have comprised Cilicia – İskenderun and Mersin, Iraq with Kuwait, Syria, Mount Lebanon Mutasarrifate, Jordan, and Palestine.\n\nIn the modern era, the term bilad al-Yaman came to refer specifically to the southwestern parts of the peninsula. Arab geographers started to refer to the whole peninsula as 'jazirat al-Arab', or the peninsula of the Arabs.\n\nIn the beginning of the 20th century, the Ottomans embarked on an ambitious project: the construction of a railway connecting Istanbul, the capital of the Ottoman Empire and the seat of the Islamic Caliphate, and Hejaz with its holiest shrines of Islam which are the yearly pilgrimage destination of the Hajj. Another important goal was to improve the economic and political integration of the distant Arabian provinces into the Ottoman state, and to facilitate the transportation of military troops in case of need.\n\nThe Hejaz Railway was a narrow gauge railway (1050 mm) that ran from Damascus to Medina, through the Hejaz region of Arabia. It was originally planned to reach the holy city of Mecca, but due to the interruption of the construction works caused by the outbreak of World War I, it eventually only reached Medina. It was a part of the Ottoman railway network and was built in order to extend the previously existing line between Istanbul and Damascus (which began from the Haydarpaşa Terminal).\n\nThe railway was started in 1900 at the behest of the Ottoman Sultan Abdul Hamid II and was built largely by the Turks, with German advice and support. A public subscription was opened throughout the Islamic world to fund the construction. The railway was to be a waqf, an inalienable religious endowment or charitable trust.\n\nThe major developments of the early 20th century were the Arab Revolt during World War I and the subsequent collapse and partitioning of the Ottoman Empire. The Arab Revolt (1916–1918) was initiated by the Sherif Hussein ibn Ali with the aim of securing independence from the ruling Ottoman Empire and creating a single unified Arab state spanning from Aleppo in Syria to Aden in Yemen. During World War I, the Sharif Hussein entered into an alliance with the United Kingdom and France against the Ottomans in June 1916.\n\nThese events were followed by the unification of Saudi Arabia under King Abdulaziz Ibn Saud. In 1902, Ibn Saud had captured Riyadh. Continuing his conquests, Abdulaziz subdued Al-Hasa, Jabal Shammar, Hejaz between 1913 and 1926 founded the modern state of Saudi Arabia. The Saudis absorbed the Emirate of Asir, with their expansion only ending in 1934 after a war with Yemen. Two Saudi states were formed and controlled much of Arabia before Ibn Saud was even born. Ibn Saud, however, established the third Saudi state.\n\nThe second major development has been the discovery of vast reserves of oil in the 1930s. Its production brought great wealth to all countries of the region, with the exception of Yemen.\n\nThe North Yemen Civil War was fought in North Yemen between royalists of the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen and factions of the Yemen Arab Republic from 1962 to 1970. The war began with a coup d'état carried out by the republican leader, Abdullah as-Sallal, which dethroned the newly crowned Muhammad al-Badr and declared Yemen a republic under his presidency. The Imam escaped to the Saudi Arabian border and rallied popular support.\n\nThe royalist side received support from Saudi Arabia, while the republicans were supported by Egypt and the Soviet Union. Both foreign irregular and conventional forces were also involved. The Egyptian President, Gamal Abdel Nasser, supported the republicans with as many as 70,000 troops. Despite several military moves and peace conferences, the war sank into a stalemate. Egypt's commitment to the war is considered to have been detrimental to its performance in the Six-Day War of June 1967, after which Nasser found it increasingly difficult to maintain his army's involvement and began to pull his forces out of Yemen.\n\nBy 1970, King Faisal of Saudi Arabia recognized the republic and a truce was signed. Egyptian military historians refer to the war in Yemen as their Vietnam.\n\nIn 1990, Iraq invaded Kuwait. The invasion of Kuwait by Iraqi forces led to the 1990–91 Gulf War. Egypt, Qatar, Syria and Saudi Arabia joined a multinational coalition that opposed Iraq. Displays of support for Iraq by Jordan and Palestine resulted in strained relations between many of the Arab states. After the war, a so-called \"Damascus Declaration\" formalized an alliance for future joint Arab defensive actions between Egypt, Syria, and the GCC member states.\n\nThe extraction and refining of oil and gas are the major industrial activities in the Arabian Peninsula. The region also has an active construction sector, with many cities reflecting the wealth generated by the oil industry. The service sector is dominated by financial and technical institutions, which, like the construction sector, mainly serve the oil industry. Traditional handicrafts such as carpet-weaving are found in rural areas of Arabia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51093471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51093471", "title": "B-52 Victory Museum, Hanoi", "text": "B-52 Victory Museum, Hanoi\n\nThe B-52 Victory Museum, Hanoi or \"Bảo Tàng Chiến Thắng B.52\" is located at 157 Đội Cấn, Ba Đình district, Hanoi.\n\nThe museum comprises one main building with displays on the history of the Vietnamese revolution, the First Indochina War, the Vietnam War, Operations Rolling Thunder, Linebacker and Linebacker II and the air defense of Hanoi. The outdoor displays include the wreckage of a B-52D or G Stratofortress apparently shot down during Operation Linebacker II (although no specific details are provided) and various air defense equipment.\n\nThe museum is open Tuesday-Thursday and Saturday-Sunday from 08:00 to 11:30 and 13:00 to 16:30. Entry is free.\n\nThe Museum is located approximately 300m south of the \"B-52 lake\", Hồ B-52 or Huu Tiep Lake which appears to contain part of the undercarriage section of the B-52 at the Museum. A plaque at the lake states that the aircraft was a B-52G shot down by a Surface-to-air missile (SAM) fired by the 72nd Battalion, 285th Air Defence Missile Regiment on 27 December 1972, however the only B-52s lost that day were two B-52Ds.\n\nAircraft on outside display are:\n\n\nAlso on display outside are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7128565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7128565", "title": "Canary Islands in pre-colonial times", "text": "Canary Islands in pre-colonial times\n\nThe Canary Islands have been known since antiquity. Until the Spanish colonization between 1402 and 1496, the Canaries were populated by an indigenous population, whose origin is still the subject of discussion among historians and linguists.\n\nThe islands were visited by the Phoenicians, the Greeks and the Carthaginians. According to the 1st century CE Roman author and philosopher Pliny the Elder, the archipelago was found to be uninhabited when visited by the Carthaginians under Hanno the Navigator in 5th century BCE, but ruins of great buildings were seen. This story may suggest that the islands were inhabited by other peoples prior to the Guanches.\n\nAt the time of medieval European engagement, the Canary Islands were inhabited by a variety of indigenous communities. The pre-colonial population of the Canaries is generically referred to as Guanches, although, strictly speaking, Guanches were originally the inhabitants of Tenerife. According to the chronicles, the inhabitants of Fuerteventura and Lanzarote were referred to as \"Maxos\", Gran Canaria was inhabited by the \"Canarii\", El Hierro by the \"Bimbaches\", La Palma by the \"Auaritas\" and La Gomera by the \"Gomeros\". Evidence does seem to suggest that inter-insular interaction was relatively low and each island was populated by its own distinct socio-cultural groups who lived in relative isolation separated from each other.\n\nThe origins of the Canarian indigenous people remain the subject of debate. Numerous theories have achieved varying degrees of acceptance.\n\nVarious Mediterranean civilizations in antiquity knew of the islands' existence and established contact with them. Visitors included Phoenicians, Greeks and Carthaginians. According to Pliny the Elder, an expedition of Mauretanians sent by King Juba II (d. 23 CE) to the archipelago visited the islands, finding them uninhabited, but noting ruins of great buildings. When King Juba, the Roman protegé, dispatched a contingent to re-open the dye production facility at Mogador (historical name of Essaouira, Morocco) in the early 1st century, Juba's naval force was subsequently sent on an exploration of the Canary Islands, using Mogador as their mission base.\n\nThe peak of Teide on Tenerife can be seen on clear days from the African coast. The Carthaginian captain Hanno the Navigator may have visited the islands during his voyage of exploration along the African coast. The Phoenicians may have arrived seeking the precious red dye extracted from the orchil - if the Canaries represent Pliny the Elder's \"Purple Isles\" or the Hesperides of legend. Although no evidence has survived of any permanent Roman settlements, in 1964 Roman amphorae were discovered in waters off Lanzarote. Discoveries made in the 1990s have demonstrated in more definite detail that the Romans traded with the indigenous inhabitants. Excavations of a settlement at El Bebedero on Lanzarote, made by a team under Pablo Atoche Peña of the University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria and Juan Ángel Paz Peralta of the University of Zaragoza, yielded about a hundred Roman potsherds, nine pieces of metal and one piece of glass at the site, in strata dated between the 1st and 4th centuries. Analysis of the clay indicated origins in Campania, Hispania Baetica and the province of Africa (modern Tunisia).\n\nThe Romans named each of the islands: \"Ninguaria\" or \"Nivaria\" (Tenerife), \"Canaria\" (Gran Canaria), \"Pluvialia\" or \"Invale\" (Lanzarote), \"Ombrion\" (La Palma), \"Planasia\" (Fuerteventura), \"Iunonia\" or \"Junonia\" (El Hierro) and \"Capraria\" (La Gomera).\n\nFrom the 14th century onward, sailors from Mallorca, Portugal and Genoa made numerous visits. Lancelotto Malocello settled on the island of Lanzarote in 1312. The Mayorcans established a mission with a bishop that lasted from 1350 to 1400. It is from this mission that the various paintings and statues of the Virgin Mary that are currently venerated in the island were preserved. European disembarkations of Genovese, Castilian and Portuguese missionaries and pirates on Canarian shores became relatively common and the prehispanic populations experienced a long and ongoing process of Westernisation before formal colonization took place.\n\nA variety of theories regarding the origins of pre-colonial Canarians explain them by the hypothesis of a more recent immigration. Some scholars (mainly from the University of La Laguna, in Tenerife) defend the theory that the Canarian populations are Punic-Phoenician in origin. Professor D. Juan Álvarez Delgado, on the other hand, argued that the Canaries remained uninhabited until 100 BCE, when Greek and Roman sailors began to explore the area. In the second half of the 1st century BCE, King Juba II of Numidia abandoned North African prisoners on the islands, who eventually became the pre-Hispanic Canarians. If the first inhabitants were abandoned prisoners, this explains, according to Álvarez Delgado, their lack of navigational acumen.\n\nGenetic analysis using mitochondrial DNA points to the Moroccan Berbers as the African population most closely related to the Guanches.\n\nArchaeology suggests that the original settlers arrived by sea, importing domestic animals such as goats, sheep, pigs and dogs and cereals such as wheat, barley and lentils. They also brought with them a set of well-defined socio-cultural practices that seem to have originated and been in use for a long period of time elsewhere.\n\nToday, archaeological and ethnographic studies have led most scholars to accept the view that the pre-colonial population of the Canaries shared common origins with North African Berber tribes from the Atlas Mountains region who began to arrive in the Canaries by sea around 1000 BCE or earlier. However, there is no archaeological or historical evidence to prove that either the Berber tribes of the Atlas Mountains or the Canarian pre-colonial population had knowledge or made use of navigation techniques. The peak of Tenerife is visible from the African coast on the very clearest of days, but the currents around the islands tend to lead the boats southwest and west, past the archipelago and into the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nMost scholars would now agree that the earliest reliable dates related to permanent human occupation can be traced back to about 1000 BCE, but different absolute dating technologies such as carbon-14 and thermoluminescence have provided variable results. Inadequate methodologies and an insufficient number of absolute datings carried out throughout the archipelago have yielded inconsistencies and information gaps.\n\nStudies of precolonial Canarian society illustrate both agricultural and pastoral ways of life in the Canaries.\n\nA 2003 genetics research article by Nicole Maca-Meyer et al. published in the European Journal of Human Genetics compared aboriginal Guanche mtDNA (collected from Canarian archaeological sites) to that of today's Canarians and concluded that, \"despite the continuous changes suffered by the population (Spanish colonisation, slave trade), aboriginal mtDNA [direct maternal] lineages constitute a considerable proportion [42 – 73%] of the Canarian gene pool. Although the Berbers are the most probable ancestors of the Guanches, it is deduced that important human movements [e.g., the Islamic-Arabic conquest of the Berbers] have reshaped Northwest Africa after the migratory wave to the Canary Islands\" and the \"results support, from a maternal perspective, the supposition that since the end of the 16th century, at least, two-thirds of the Canarian population had an indigenous substrate, as was previously inferred from historical and anthropological data.\" mtDNA haplogroup U subclade U6b1 is Canarian-specific and is the most common mtDNA haplogroup found in aboriginal Guanche archaeological burial sites.\n\nY-DNA, or Y-chromosomal, (direct paternal) lineages were analysed in a later study by Rosa Fregel and colleagues published in \"BMC Evolutionary Biology\". Y-DNA was extracted from the same\naboriginal Guanche samples used by Nicole Maca-Meyer et al., and compared to samples from 17th-18th century remains post-dating the Spanish conquest of the islands, and samples from the present population. They found Berber Y-chromosome lineages (E-M81, E-M78 and J-M267) prominent in the indigenous remains, confirming the North West African origin for the Guanches deduced Nicole Maca-Meyer et al. from mitochondrial DNA results. \"However, in contrast with their female lineages, which have survived in the present-day population since the conquest with only a moderate decline, the male indigenous lineages have dropped constantly being substituted by European lineages.\" They conclude that the European colonization of the Canary Islands changed the local gene-pool most dramatically in the male line.\n\nAlthough denied by certain scholars (cf. Abreu Galindo 1977: 297), specialisation of labour and a hierarchy system seem to have governed the social structures of the Canarian precolonial populations. In Tenerife the highest figure was known as the \"Mencey\", although, by the time the first Spanish incursions in the Canaries took place, Tenerife had already been divided into nine \"menceyatos\" (i.e. separate regions of the island controlled by its own Mencey), namely \"Anaga, Tegueste, Tacoronte, Taoro, Icod, Daute, Adeje, Abona and Güimar\". Despite the fact that all \"Menceys\" were independent and absolute owners of their territory within the island, it was the \"Mencey of Taoro\" who acted, according to the chronicles, as primus inter pares. Gran Canaria, on the other hand, appears to have been divided into two \"guanartematos\" (i.e. functionally, politically and structurally differentiated regions): \"Telde\" and \"Gáldar\", each governed by a \"Guanarteme\".\n\nLittle information has survived regarding the religious and cosmological beliefs of the Guanches. Indigenous Canarian people often performed their religious practices in places marked by particular striking geographical features or types of vegetation. Certain sites containing architectonic remains and cave paintings have been identified as sanctuaries.\n"}
{"id": "23439799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23439799", "title": "Clayne L. Pope", "text": "Clayne L. Pope\n\nClayne L. Pope (born October 29, 1940) is the Zina Card Williams Young professor of economics at Brigham Young University (BYU) and specializes in 19th century economic history.\n\nBorn in Emmett, Idaho, Pope has a bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University (BYU) and an MA and PhD from the University of Chicago. Pope is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). He served for a time as the president of the BYU 3rd Stake.\n\nPope has been on the faculty of BYU since 1970. Prior to that he was a lecturer at the University of Michigan for a year. In the summer of 1977 Pope was a visiting lecturer at the College of William and Mary and he was a visiting lecturer at Princeton University in 1979. He also served for a time as the dean of the College of Home Family and Social Sciences at BYU.\n\nPope has advocated the use of higher prices to reduce energy consumption.\n\nIn 2009 a Clayne L. Pope Professorship in Economics was created in the BYU College of Family, Home and Social Sciences. The first recipient was James B. McDonald.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1253543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1253543", "title": "David Manker Abshire", "text": "David Manker Abshire\n\nDavid Manker Abshire (April 11, 1926 – October 31, 2014) served as a Special Counselor to President Reagan and was the United States Permanent Representative to NATO from 1983–87. Abshire presided over the Center for the Study of the Presidency and Congress.\n\nIn July 2002, he was elected President of the Richard Lounsbery Foundation of New York. He was a member of the exclusive Alfalfa Club.\n\nAbshire was a Republican and the author of seven books, the most recent being \"A Call to Greatness: Challenging Our Next President\", which was published in 2008. Abshire was married and had five children.\n\nHe was a member of the advisory council of the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation and sat on the advisory board of America Abroad Media.\n\nAbshire was born in Chattanooga, Tennessee in 1926. He graduated from The Bright School in 1938, Baylor School in Chattanooga in 1944 and from West Point in 1951. He fought in the Korean War and was decorated as a company commander. Abshire received his doctorate in History from Georgetown University in 1959, where for many years he was an adjunct professor at its Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service. He is a member of the Project on National Security Reform.\n\nIn 1962, Abshire and Admiral Arleigh Burke founded the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS). In 1988, as President of CSIS, he merged the Hawaii-based Pacific Forum into his organization to give it more input from the Asia-Pacific region. Dr. Abshire served as Assistant Secretary of State for Congressional Relations from 1970–1973 and later as Chairman of the U.S. Board of International Broadcasting (1975–77). He was a member of the Murphy Commission (1974–75), the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board (1981–1982), and the President's Task Force on U.S. Government International Broadcasting (1991).\n\nDuring the transition of government in 1980, Abshire was asked by President-elect Reagan to head the National Security Group, which included the State and Defense Departments, the U.S. Information Agency, and the Central Intelligence Agency. He served for nine years on the board of Procter & Gamble.\n\nIn 1983–1987 Abshire was Ambassador to NATO where, in reaction to the threat posed by Soviet SS-20 missiles, he was appointed to oversee the deployment of Pershing and Cruise missiles. For his service, he was given the Distinguished Public Service Medal.\n\nAbshire was recalled as the Iran-Contra Affair unfolded to serve as Special Counselor to President Reagan with Cabinet rank. His charge was to assure a full investigation of the sale of arms to Iran so as to restore the confidence of the nation in the Reagan presidency.\n\n\nAbshire died on October 31, 2014 of pulmonary fibrosis in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "7463815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7463815", "title": "Easter Week", "text": "Easter Week\n\nEaster Week is the period of seven days from Easter Sunday through the Saturday following. It follows Holy Week.\n\nIn the Latin Rite of Catholicism, Anglican and other Western churches, Easter Week is the week beginning with the Christian feast of Easter and ending a week later on Easter Saturday. The term is sometimes inaccurately used to mean the week \"before\" Easter, which is properly known as Holy Week, and particularly confusing in this context is the secular misuse of the term \"Easter Saturday\" to refer to the day known liturgically as Holy Saturday or Easter Eve (the day before Easter), rather than the Saturday following Easter.\n\nWhile the first day of Easter Week is called \"Easter Day\" or \"Easter Sunday\", the other days in the week may be designated according to any of the following patterns: (1) \"Monday of Easter Week\" (e.g. in the Church of England's \"Common Worship\" calendar), (2) \"Monday in Easter Week\" (e.g., in the Anglican Church's \"Book of Common Prayer\" calendar), or (3) \"Easter Monday\". In former years, Easter, as the most important celebration in Christianity, was observed for a week, and it still is celebrated in the liturgy of the Roman Catholic Church and Anglicanism with an octave. The Te Deum is sung at the conclusion of Matins/Office of Readings and the Gloria in excelsis Deo is sung at Mass each day of the Octave. The paschal sequence, Victimae Paschali Laudes, may be sung before the Gospel reading on each of these days as well and the gospel readings for each of these days is a scriptural account of the resurrection of Christ (\"Monday\"—Matthew 28:8-15; \"Tuesday\"—John 20:11-18; \"Wednesday\"—Luke 24:13-35; \"Thursday\"—Luke 24:35-48; \"Friday\"—John 21:1-14; \"Saturday\"—Mark 16:9-15).\n\nOwing to modern working patterns, many Easter celebrations now occur only on Easter Sunday and Easter Monday (the latter known in some places, especially those under Polish and Bohemian influence, as \"Dyngus Day\"). Easter Tuesday is a public holiday in Tasmania observed by some awards/agreements and the State Public Service. Easter Monday is also a national holiday in the Scandinavian countries which have Lutheran state churches, and in The Netherlands.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church and in Eastern Catholic Churches, the days of Bright Week are named: Bright Monday, Bright Tuesday, etc. Each day repeats the joyful hymns of Pascha (Easter), with only a few variations, taken from the Octoechos, according to the Eight Tones of the Orthodox liturgy. One tone (with the exception of the Seventh Tone—known as the \"Grave Tone\") is assigned to each day:\n\n\nBright Week is considered to be one single joyful day, although the celebrations on the Sunday of Pascha are the most solemn. The Divine Services are completely different during this time than any other time of the year. Everything during the service is sung joyfully, rather than read. There is no reading from the Psalter, and the services are much shorter than usual. There is no fasting during Bright Week. The Holy Doors in the iconostasis remain open throughout the entire week, and the Artos (a leavened loaf of bread that was blessed during the Paschal Vigil) remains in the church and is venerated by everyone as they enter the temple as a way of \"greeting the Resurrected Christ\".\n\nBright Friday is the annual feast day of the Theotokos (Mother of God), as the \"Life-giving Spring\", and there are optional hymns which may be chanted in honor of the feast in addition to the paschal hymns. If any other feasts on the fixed cycle occur during Bright Week, they are transferred to a convenient day after Thomas Sunday. \n\nJust before the beginning of the Ninth Hour on Bright Saturday, the Holy Doors are closed, and the services begin to return to their more normal form, although the chanting of the Troparion of Pascha, \"Christ is risen from the dead...\", as well as certain other paschal hymns, continue to be chanted until Ascension.\n"}
{"id": "17303095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17303095", "title": "Elizabeth Hill Boone", "text": "Elizabeth Hill Boone\n\nElizabeth Hill Boone (born September 6, 1948) is an American art historian, ethnohistorian and academic, specialising in the study of Latin American art and in particular the early colonial and pre-Columbian art, iconography and pictoral codices associated with the Mixtec, Aztec and other Mesoamerican cultures in the central Mexican region. Her extensive published research covers investigations into the nature of Aztec writing, the symbolism and structure of Aztec art and iconography and the interpretation of Mixtec and Aztec codices.\n\nBoone has been a professor of art history at Tulane University since 1994–95, holding the Martha and Donald Robertson Chair in Latin American Art. She is also a research associate at Tulane's Middle American Research Institute (MARI). From 2006 Boone took a sabbatical from lecturing and research at Tulane, to accept a position to pursue independent research as the Andrew W. Mellon Professor at the National Gallery of Art's Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts (CASVA), an appointment lasting through 2008. Boone had previously been a Paul Mellon Senior Fellow at CASVA, in 1993–94.\n\nElizabeth Hill Boone commenced her undergraduate studies in fine arts at The College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia, obtaining a B.A. in 1970. She then studied art history at California State University, Northridge in 1971–72, and completed her postgraduate degrees at the University of Texas at Austin, obtaining an MA in 1974 and a PhD in pre-Columbian art history, which was awarded in 1977.\n\nAfter receiving her PhD, Boone secured a research associate position at University of Texas at San Antonio's Research Center for the Arts, where she worked for three years. In 1980 Boone took up a position in pre-Columbian studies at the research institution she would be associated with for the next fifteen years, the Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collection located in Washington, D.C.. Initially as associate curator (1980–83) and then as Director of Pre-Columbian Studies and Curator of the Pre-Columbian Collection (1983–95), Boone oversaw and held responsibility for Dumbarton Oaks' research and scholarship programs, symposia and colloquia, scheduled publications and the curatorship of the institution's libraries and collection of pre-Columbian artworks. From 2006 onwards Boone has retained a position as one of the six-member Board of Senior Fellows in pre-Columbian Studies at Dumbarton Oaks.\n\nIn 1995 Boone relocated to New Orleans, Louisiana to become professor of art history at Tulane University, where she teaches courses on Mesoamerican, Aztec and colonial-era art history, general art interpretation and theory, and continues to publish research papers and books in the field.\n\nIn 1990 Boone was awarded the Orden del Águila Azteca (Order of the Aztec Eagle), Mexico's highest decoration awarded to non-citizens.\n\nDuring 2010 Boone served as president of the American Society for Ethnohistory.\n\nBoone is corresponding fellow of the Academia Mexicana de la Historia.\n\nBoone's publications include:\n\n"}
{"id": "41500856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41500856", "title": "Florence Harmer", "text": "Florence Harmer\n\nFlorence Elizabeth Harmer FBA (14 May 1890 – 5 August 1967) was an English historian, specializing in the Anglo-Saxon period. Translating from Old English and Latin, she edited a number of primary sources for early English history, and her \"Anglo-Saxon Writs\" (1952) remains a standard text.\n\nBorn at Mitcham, then in Surrey, Harmer was the daughter of Horace Alfred Harmer, an exporter of goods to Southern Africa, by his marriage to Harriett Frances Butler. She was educated at the City of London School for Girls, from where she gained a scholarship to Girton College, Cambridge and prepared for the Medieval and Modern Languages Tripos.\n\nFrom 1920 until 1957 Harmer was an academic of the University of Manchester, becoming a Senior Lecturer in 1949 and a Reader in 1955. After she retired in 1957, she lived at Pinner, near a sister, continuing to attend meetings of the British Academy, of which she was a Fellow, and events at Cambridge. She was a friend of Dorothy Whitelock, who wrote her obituary after she died in 1967.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23778693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23778693", "title": "Geographers on Film", "text": "Geographers on Film\n\nGeographers on Film is an archival series of more than 300 filmed and taped interviews with various distinguished geographers dating back to 1970. The series was created as an educational resource by geographer Maynard Weston Dow, Plymouth State University, and his wife, Nancy Freeman Dow. The series was supported in part by the Association of American Geographers (AAG), the National Science Foundation, Plymouth State University, and the Marion and Jasper Whiting Foundation, of Boston. \n\nShort clips from 25 of the interviews are available as a 35-minute, streaming video via the AAG website and YouTube. Geographers featured in this video include, in order of appearance:\n"}
{"id": "165190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165190", "title": "Giambattista Vico", "text": "Giambattista Vico\n\nGiambattista Vico (born Giovan Battista Vico , ; 23 June 1668 – 23 January 1744) was an Italian political philosopher and rhetorician, historian and jurist, of the Age of Enlightenment. He criticized the expansion and development of modern rationalism, was an apologist for Classical Antiquity, a precursor of systematic and complex thought, in opposition to Cartesian analysis and other types of reductionism, and was the first expositor of the fundamentals of social science and of semiotics. \n\nThe Latin aphorism \"Verum esse ipsum factum\" (\"What is true is precisely what is made\") coined by Vico is an early instance of constructivist epistemology. He inaugurated the modern field of the philosophy of history, and, although the term \"philosophy of history\" is not in his writings, Vico spoke of a “history of philosophy narrated philosophically.\" Although he was not an historicist, contemporary interest in Vico usually has been motivated by historicists, such as Isaiah Berlin, an historian of ideas, Edward Said, a literary critic, and Hayden White, a metahistorian.\n\nGiambattista Vico's intellectual \"magnum opus\" is the book \"Scienza Nuova\" (1725, \"New Science\"), which attempts a systematic organization of the humanities as a single science that recorded and explained the historical cycles by which societies rise and fall.\n\nBorn to a bookseller in Naples, Italy, Giovan Battista Vico attended several schools, but ill health and dissatisfaction with the scholasticism of the Jesuits led to his being educated at home by tutors. Evidence from his autobiographical work indicates that Vico likely was an autodidact educated under paternal influence, during a three-year absence from school, consequence of an accidental fall when the boy was seven years old. Giovann Battista’s formal education was at the University of Naples from which he was graduated in 1694, as Doctor of Civil and Canon Law.\n\nIn 1686, after surviving a bout of typhus, he accepted a job as a tutor, in Vatolla, south of Salerno, which became a nine-year professional engagement that lasted till 1695. Four years later, in 1699, Vico married Teresa Caterina Destito, a childhood friend, and accepted a chair in rhetoric at the University of Naples, which he held until ill-health retirement, in 1741. Throughout his academic career, Vico would aspire to, but never attain, the more respectable chair of jurisprudence; however, in 1734, he was appointed historiographer royal, by Charles III, King of Naples, at a salary greater than he had earned as a university professor.\n\nVico's version of rhetoric is product of his humanistic and pedagogic concerns. In the 1708 commencement speech \"De Nostri Temporis Studiorum Ratione\" (\"On the Order of the Scholarly Disciplines of Our Times\"), Vico said that whoever “intends a career in public life, whether in the courts, the senate, or the pulpit” should be taught to “master the art of topics and [to] defend both sides of a controversy, be it on Nature, Man, or politics, in a freer and brighter style of expression, so he can learn to draw on those arguments which are most probable and have the greatest degree of verisimilitude”; yet, in \"Scienza Nuova\", Vico denounced defending both sides in controversies as \"false eloquence\".\n\nAs Royal Professor of Latin Eloquence, Vico prepared students for higher studies in the fields of Law and of Jurisprudence; thus, his lessons were about the formal aspects of the canon of rhetoric, including the arrangement and the delivery of an argument. Yet, Vico chose to emphasize the Aristotelian connection of rhetoric with logic and dialectic, thereby placing ends (rhetoric) at their center. Vico's objection to modern rhetoric is that it is disconnected from common sense (\"sensus communis\"), defined as the “worldly sense” that is common to all men.\n\nIn lectures and throughout the body of his work, Vico's rhetoric begins from a central argument (\"medius terminus\"), which is to be clarified by following the order of things as they arise in our experience. Probability and circumstance retain their proportionate importance, and discovery — reliant upon topics (\"loci\") — supersedes axioms derived through reflective, abstract thought. In the tradition of classical Roman rhetoric, Vico sets out to educate the orator (rhetorician) as the transmitter of the \"oratio\", a speech with \"ratio\" (reason) at the centre. What is essential to the oratorical art (Gr. ῥητορική, \"rhētorikē\") is the orderly link between common sense and an end commensurate with oratory; an end that is not imposed upon the imagination from above (in the manner of the moderns and dogmatic Christianity), but that is drawn from common sense, itself. In the tradition of Socrates and Cicero, Vico's true orator will be midwife to the birth of “the true” (as an idea) from “the certain”, the ignorance in the mind of the student.\n\nRediscovery of \"the most ancient wisdom\" of the senses, a wisdom that is \"humana stultitia\" (“human foolishness”), Vico's emphases on the importance of civic life and of professional obligations are in the humanist tradition. He would call for a maieutic (jurisprudential) oratory art against the grain of the modern privilege of the dogmatic form of reason, in what he called the “geometrical method” of René Descartes and the logicians at the Port-Royal-des-Champs abbey.\n\nAs he relates in his autobiography, Vico returned to Naples from Vatolla to find \"the physics of Descartes at the height of its renown among the established men of letters.\" Developments in both metaphysics and the natural sciences abounded as the result of Cartesianism. Widely disseminated by the Port Royal Logic of Antoine Arnauld and Pierre Nicole, Descartes's method was rooted in verification: the only path to truth, and thus knowledge, was through axioms derived from observation. Descartes's insistence that the \"sure and indubitable\" (or, \"clear and distinct\") should form the basis of reasoning had an obvious impact on the prevailing views of logic and discourse. Studies in rhetoricindeed all studies concerned with civic discourse and the realm of probable truthsmet with increasing disdain.\n\nVico's humanism and professional concerns prompted an obvious response that he would develop throughout the course of his writings: the realms of verifiable truth and human concern share only a slight overlap, yet reasoning is required in equal measure in both spheres. One of the clearest and earliest forms of this argument is available in the \"De Italorum Sapientia\", where Vico argues that\n\nVico's position here and in later works is not that the Cartesian method is irrelevant, but that its application cannot be extended to the civic sphere. Instead of confining reason to a string of verifiable axioms, Vico suggests (along with the ancients) that appeals to \"phronēsis\" (φρόνησις or practical wisdom) must also be made, and likewise appeals to the various components of persuasion that comprise rhetoric. Vico would reproduce this argument consistently throughout his works, and would use it as a central tenet of the \"Scienza Nuova\".\n\nVico is best known for his \"verum factum\" principle, first formulated in 1710 as part of his \"De antiquissima Italorum sapientia, ex linguae latinae originibus eruenda\" (1710) (\"On the most ancient wisdom of the Italians, unearthed from the origins of the Latin language\"). The principle states that truth is verified through creation or invention and not, as per Descartes, through observation: “The criterion and rule of the true is to have made it. Accordingly, our clear and distinct idea of the mind cannot be a criterion of the mind itself, still less of other truths. For while the mind perceives itself, it does not make itself.” This criterion for truth would later shape the history of civilization in Vico’s opus, the \"Scienza Nuova\" (\"The New Science\", 1725), because he would argue that civil lifelike mathematicsis wholly constructed.\n\n\"The New Science\" (1725, \"Scienza Nuova\") is his major work and has been highly influential in the philosophy of history, and for historicists such as Isaiah Berlin and Hayden White.\n\nSamuel Beckett's first published work, in the selection of critical essays on James Joyce entitled \"Our Exagmination Round His Factification for Incamination of Work in Progress\", is \"Dante... Bruno. Vico.. Joyce\". In it, Beckett sees a profound influence of Vico's philosophy and poetics — as well the cyclical form of the \"Scienza Nuova\" — on the avant-garde compositions of Joyce, and especially the titular Work in Progress, viz. Finnegans Wake.\n\nIn \"Knowledge and Social Structure\" (1974), Peter Hamilton identified Giambattista Vico as the “sleeping partner” of the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nIn \"Capital: Critique of Political Economy\" (1867), Karl Marx’s mention of Vico indicates their parallel perspectives about history, the role of historical actors, and an historical method of narrative. Marx and Vico saw social-class warfare as the means by which men achieve the end of equal rights; Vico called that time the \"Age of Men\". Marx concluded that such a state of affairs is the optimal end of social change in a society, but Vico thought that such complete equality would lead to socio-political chaos and the consequent collapse of society. In that vein, Vico proposed a social need for religion, for a supernatural Divine Providence to keep order in human society.\n\nIn \"Orientalism\" (1978), Edward Said acknowledged his scholar’s debt to Vico; whose “ideas anticipate and later infiltrate the line of German thinkers I am about to cite. They belong to the era of Herder and Wolf, later to be followed by Goethe, Humboldt, Dilthey, Nietzsche, Gadamer, and finally the great Twentieth Century Romance philologists Erich Auerbach, Leo Spitzer, and Ernst Robert Curtius.” As a humanist and early philologist, Vico represented “a different, alternative model that has been extremely important to me in my work”, which differed from mainstream Western prejudice against the Orient and the dominating “standardization” that came with modernity and culminated in National Socialism. That the interdependence of human history and culture facilitates the scholars’ task to “take seriously Vico’s great observation that men make their own history, that what they can know is what they have made, and extend it to geography. As geographical and cultural entities — to say nothing of historical entities — such locales, regions, and geographical sectors as ‘Orient’ and ‘Occident’ are man-made.”\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41531812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41531812", "title": "Goldschmidt School", "text": "Goldschmidt School\n\nThe Goldschmidt School was a school that existed in Berlin, Germany in the 1930s. It was founded by Leonore Goldschmidt, a German Jew after Jews were banned from enrolling in German schools. Stella Goldschlag, who passed as Aryan and betrayed Jews during the war, was a pupil of the school. Peter H. Wyden also attended the school, and later wrote a biography on Goldschlag.\n"}
{"id": "3840024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3840024", "title": "History of Latin", "text": "History of Latin\n\nLatin is a member of the broad family of Italic languages. Its alphabet, the Latin alphabet, emerged from the Old Italic alphabets, which in turn were derived from the Greek and Phoenician scripts. Historical Latin came from the prehistoric language of the Latium region, specifically around the River Tiber, where Roman civilization first developed. How and when Latin came to be spoken by the Romans are questions that have long been debated. Various influences on Latin of Celtic dialects in northern Italy, the non-Indo-European Etruscan language in Central Italy, and the Greek of southern Italy have been detected, but when these influences entered the native Latin is not known for certain.\n\nSurviving Latin literature consists almost entirely of Classical Latin in its broadest definition. It includes a polished and sometimes highly stylized literary language sometimes termed Golden Latin, which spans the 1st century BC and the early years of the 1st century AD. However, throughout the history of ancient Rome the spoken language differed in both grammar and vocabulary from that of literature, and is referred to as Vulgar Latin. In addition to Latin, the Greek language was often spoken by the well-educated elite, who studied it in school and acquired Greek tutors from among the influx of enslaved educated Greek prisoners of war, captured during the Roman conquest of Greece. In the eastern half of the Roman Empire, which became the Byzantine Empire, the Greek Koine of Hellenism remained current and was never replaced by Latin. It continued to influence the Vulgar Latin that evolved into the Eastern Romance languages.\n\nThe name Latin derives from the Italic tribal group named Latini that settled around the 10th century BC in Latium, and the dialect spoken by these people.\n\nThe Italic languages form a \"centum\" subfamily of the Indo-European language family. These include the Romance, Germanic, Celtic, and Hellenic languages, and a number of extinct ones.\n\nBroadly speaking, in initial syllables the Indo-European simple vowels — \"(*a), *e, *i, *o, *u\"; short and long — are usually retained in Latin. The schwa indogermanicum (\"*ə\") appears in Latin as \"a\" (cf. IE \"*pəter\" > L \"pater\"). Diphthongs are also preserved in Old Latin, but in Classical Latin some tend to become monophthongs (for example \"oi\" > \"ū\" or \"oe\", and \"ei\" > \"ē\" > \"ī\"). In non-initial syllables, there was more vowel reduction. The most extreme case occurs with short vowels in medial open syllables (i.e. short vowels followed by at most a single consonant, occurring neither in the first nor last syllable): All are reduced to a single vowel, which appears as \"i\" in most cases, but \"e\" (sometimes \"o\") before \"r\", and \"u\" before an \"l\" which is followed by \"o\" or \"u\". In final syllables, short \"e\" and \"o\" are usually raised to \"i\" and \"u\", respectively.\n\nConsonants are generally more stable. However, the Indo-European voiced aspirates \"bh, dh, gh, gwh\" are not maintained, becoming \"f, f, h, f\" respectively at the beginning of a word, but usually \"b, d, g, v\" elsewhere. Note that non-initial \"dh\" becomes \"b\" next to \"r\" or \"u\", e.g. \"*h₁rudh-\" \"red\" > \"rub-\", e.g. \"rubeō\" \"to be red\"; \"*werdh-\" \"word\" > \"verbum\". \"s\" between vowels famously becomes \"r\", e.g. \"flōs\" \"flower\", gen. \"flōris\"; \"erō\" \"I will be\" vs. root \"es-\"; \"aurōra\" \"dawn\" < *\"ausōsā\" (cf. Germanic \"*aust-\" > English \"east\", Vedic Sanskrit \"uṣā́s\" \"dawn\"); \"soror\" \"sister\" < \"*sosor\" < \"*swesōr\" (cf. Old English \"sweostor\" \"sister\").\n\nOf the original eight cases of Proto-Indo-European, Latin inherited six: nominative, vocative, accusative, genitive, dative, and ablative. The Indo-European locative survived in the declensions of some place names and a few common nouns, such as \"Roma\" \"Rome\" (locative \"Romae\") and \"domus\" \"home\" (locative \"domī\" \"at home\"). Vestiges of the instrumental case may remain in adverbial forms ending in \"-ē\".\n\nIt is believed that the earliest surviving inscription is a seventh-century B.C. pin known as the \"Praenestine fibula\", which reads \"Manios med fhefhaked Numasioi\" \"Manius made me for Numerius\".\n\nOld Latin (also called Early Latin or Archaic Latin) refers to the period of Latin texts before the age of Classical Latin, extending from textual fragments that probably originated in the Roman monarchy to the written language of the late Roman republic about 75 BC. Almost all the writing of its earlier phases is inscriptional.\n\nSome phonological characteristics of older Latin are the case endings \"-os\" and \"-om\" (later Latin \"-us\" and \"-um\"). In many locations, classical Latin turned intervocalic /s/ into /r/. This had implications for declension: early classical Latin, \"honos\", \"honosis\"; Classical \"honor\", \"honoris\" (\"honor\"). Some Latin texts preserve /s/ in this position, such as the Carmen Arvale's \"lases\" for \"lares\".\n\nClassical Latin is the form of the Latin language used by the ancient Romans in Classical Latin literature. In the latest and narrowest philological model its use spanned the Golden Age of Latin literature – broadly the 1st century BC and the early 1st century AD – possibly extending to the Silver Age – broadly the 1st and 2nd centuries. It was a polished written literary language based on the refined spoken language of the upper classes. Classical Latin differs from Old Latin: the earliest inscriptional language and the earliest authors, such as Ennius, Plautus and others, in a number of ways; for example, the early \"-om\" and \"-os\" endings shifted into \"-um\" and \"-us\" ones, and some lexical differences also developed, such as the broadening of the meaning of words. In the broadest and most ancient sense, the classical period includes the authors of Early Latin, the Golden Age and the Silver Age.\n\nThe golden age of Latin literature is a period consisting roughly of the time from 75 BC to AD 14, covering the end of the Roman Republic and the reign of Augustus Caesar. In the currently used philological model this period represents the peak of Latin literature. Since the earliest post-classical times the Latin of those authors has been an ideal norm of the best Latin, which other writers should follow.\n\nIn reference to Roman literature, the Silver age covers the first two centuries AD directly after the Golden age. Literature from the Silver Age is more embellished with mannerisms.\n\nLate Latin is the administrative and literary language of Late Antiquity in the late Roman empire and states that succeeded the Western Roman Empire over the same range. By its broadest definition it is dated from about 200 AD to about 900 AD when it was replaced by written Romance languages. Opinion concerning whether it should be considered classical is divided. The authors of the period looked back to a classical period they believed should be imitated and yet their styles were often classical. According to the narrowest definitions, Late Latin did not exist and the authors of the times are to be considered medieval.\n\nVulgar Latin (in Latin, \"sermo vulgaris\") is a blanket term covering vernacular dialects of the Latin language spoken from earliest times in Italy until the latest dialects of the Western Roman Empire, diverging still further, evolved into the early Romance languages – whose writings began to appear about the 9th century.\n\nThis spoken Latin differed from the literary language of Classical Latin in its grammar and vocabulary. It is likely to have evolved over time, with some features not appearing until the late Empire. Other features are likely to have been in place much earlier. Because there are few phonetic transcriptions of the daily speech of these Latin speakers (to match, for example, the post-classical Appendix Probi) Vulgar Latin must be studied mainly by indirect methods.\nKnowledge of Vulgar Latin comes from a variety of sources. First, the comparative method reconstructs items of the mother language from the attested Romance languages. Also, prescriptive grammar texts from the Late Latin period condemn some usages as errors, providing insight into how Latin was actually spoken. The solecisms and non-Classical usages occasionally found in late Latin texts also shed light on the spoken language. A windfall source lies in the chance finds of wax tablets such as those found at Vindolanda on Hadrian's Wall. The Roman cursive script was used on these tablets.\n\nThe Romance languages, a major branch of the Indo-European language family, comprise all languages that descended from Latin, the language of the Roman Empire. The Romance languages have more than 700 million native speakers worldwide, mainly in the Americas, Europe, and Africa, as well as in many smaller regions scattered through the world.\n\nAll Romance languages descend from Vulgar Latin, the language of soldiers, settlers, and slaves of the Roman Empire, which was substantially different from that of the Roman \"literati\". Between 200 BC and AD 100, the expansion of the Empire and the administrative and educational policies of Rome made Vulgar Latin the dominant vernacular language over a wide area which stretched from the Iberian Peninsula to the west coast of the Black Sea. During the Empire's decline and after its collapse and fragmentation in the 5th century, Vulgar Latin began to evolve independently within each local area, and eventually diverged into dozens of distinct languages. The overseas empires established by Spain, Portugal and France after the 15th century then spread these languages to other continents – about two thirds of all Romance speakers are now outside Europe.\n\nIn spite of the multiple influences of pre-Roman languages and later invasions, the phonology, morphology, lexicon, and syntax of all Romance languages are predominantly derived from Vulgar Latin. As a result, the group shares a number of linguistic features that set it apart from other Indo-European branches.\n\nEcclesiastical Latin (sometimes called Church Latin) is a broad and analogous term referring to the Latin language as used in documents of the Roman Catholic Church, its liturgies (mainly in past times) and during some periods the preaching of its ministers. Ecclesiastical Latin is not a single style: the term merely means the language promulgated at any time by the church. In terms of stylistic periods, it belongs to Late Latin in the Late Latin period, Medieval Latin in the Medieval Period, and so on through to the present. One may say that, starting from the church's decision in the early Late Latin period to use a simple and unornamented language that would be comprehensible to ordinary Latin speakers and yet still be elegant and correct, church Latin is usually a discernible substyle within the major style of the period. Its authors in the New Latin period are typically paradigmatic of the best Latin and that is true in contemporary times. The decline in its use within the last 100 years has been a matter of regret to some, who have formed organizations inside and outside the church to support its use and to use it.\n\nMedieval Latin, the literary and administrative Latin used in the Middle Ages, exhibits much variation between individual authors, mainly due to poor communications in those times between different regions. The individuality is characterised by a different range of solecisms and by the borrowing of different words from Vulgar Latin or from local vernaculars. Some styles show features intermediate between Latin and Romance languages; others are closer to classical Latin. The stylistic variations came to an end with the rise of nation states and new empires in the Renaissance period, and the authority of early universities imposing a new style: Renaissance Latin.\n\nRenaissance Latin is a name given to the Latin written during the European Renaissance in the 14th-16th centuries, particularly distinguished by the distinctive Latin style developed by the humanist movement.\n\n\"Ad fontes\" was the general cry of the humanists, and as such their Latin style sought to purge Latin of the medieval Latin vocabulary and stylistic accretions that it had acquired in the centuries after the fall of the Roman Empire. They looked to Golden Age Latin literature, and especially to Cicero in prose and Virgil in poetry, as the arbiters of Latin style. They abandoned the use of the sequence and other accentual forms of meter, and sought instead to revive the Greek formats that were used in Latin poetry during the Roman period. The humanists condemned the large body of medieval Latin literature as \"gothic\" – for them, a term of abuse – and believed instead that only ancient Latin from the Roman period was \"real Latin\".\n\nThe humanists also sought to purge written Latin of medieval developments in its orthography. They insisted, for example, that \"ae\" be written out in full wherever it occurred in classical Latin; medieval scribes often wrote \"e\" instead of \"ae\". They were much more zealous than medieval Latin writers in distinguishing \"t\" from \"c\": because the effects of palatalization made them homophones, medieval scribes often wrote, for example, \"eciam\" for \"etiam\". Their reforms even affected handwriting: humanists usually wrote Latin in a script derived from Carolingian minuscule, the ultimate ancestor of most contemporary lower-case typefaces, avoiding the black-letter scripts used in the Middle Ages. Erasmus even proposed that the then-traditional pronunciations of Latin be abolished in favour of his reconstructed version of classical Latin pronunciation.\n\nThe humanist plan to remake Latin was largely successful, at least in education. Schools now taught the humanistic spellings, and encouraged the study of the texts selected by the humanists, largely to the exclusion of later Latin literature. On the other hand, while humanist Latin was an elegant literary language, it became much harder to write books about law, medicine, science or contemporary politics in Latin while observing all of the humanists' norms of vocabulary purging and classical usage. Because humanist Latin lacked precise vocabulary to deal with modern issues, their reforms accelerated the transformation of Latin from a working language to an object of antiquarian study. Their attempts at literary work, especially poetry, often have a strong element of pastiche.\n\nNew Latin (or Neo-Latin) is a post-medieval version of Latin, now used primarily in international scientific vocabulary and systematics. The term came into widespread use towards the end of the 1890s among linguists and scientists.\n\nClassicists use the term \"Neo-Latin\" to describe the use of the Latin language for any purpose, scientific or literary, after the Renaissance (for which purpose they often use the date 1500), although, for example, the editors of the I Tatti Renaissance Library call their Renaissance Latin language texts Neo-Latin as well. Such Contemporary Latin includes ecclesiastical use, as well as translations from modern languages into Latin and the occasional poetry. Under the name \"Living Latin\", some have advocated reviving the language as a means of spoken communication.\n\nProto-Italic inherited all ten of the early post-Proto-Indo-European simple vowels (i.e. at a time when laryngeals had colored and often lengthened adjacent vowels and then disappeared in many circumstances): \"*a, *e, *i, *o, *u, *ā, *ē, *ī, *ō, *ū\". It also inherited all of the post-PIE diphthongs except for \"*eu\", which became \"*ou\". Proto-Italic and Old Latin had a stress accent on the first syllable of a word, and this caused steady reduction and eventual deletion of many short vowels in non-initial syllables while affecting initial syllables much less. Long vowels were largely unaffected in general except in final syllables, where they had a tendency to shorten.\n\nNote: For the following examples, it helps to keep in mind the normal correspondences between PIE and certain other languages:\n\nIn initial syllables, Latin generally preserves all of the simple vowels of Proto-Italic (see above):\n\nShort vowel changes in initial syllables:\n\nThere are numerous examples where PIE \"*o\" appears to result in Latin \"a\" instead of expected \"o\", mostly next to labial or labializing consonants. A group of cases showing \"*-ow-\" > \"-av-\" (before stress), \"*-ōw-\" > \"-āv-\" is known as Thurneysen-Havet's law: examples include PIE \"*lowh₃ṓ\" > \"*lowṓ\" > \"lavō\" 'I wash'; PIE \"*oḱtōwos\" > \"octāvus\" 'eighth' (but \"octō\" 'eight'). Other cases remain more disputed, such as \"mare\" 'sea', in contrast to Irish \"muir\", Welsh \"môr\" (Proto-Celtic *mori) < PIE \"*móri\"; \"lacus\" 'lake', in contrast to Irish \"loch\" < PIE \"*lok-u-\". De Vaan (2008: 8) suggests a general shift \"*o\" > \"a\" in open syllables when preceded by any of \"*b\", \"*m\"; \"*kʷ\", \"*w\"; \"*l\". Vine (2011) disputes the cases with \"*moCV\", but proposes inversely that \"*mo-\" > \"ma-\" when followed by \"r\" plus a velar (\"k\" or \"g\").\n\nIn non-initial syllables, there was more vowel reduction of short vowels. The most extreme case occurs with short vowels in medial syllables (i.e. short vowels in a syllable that is neither the first nor the last), where all five vowels usually merge into a single vowel:\n\n1. They merge into \"e\" before \"r\" (sometimes original \"o\" is unaffected)\n\n2. They become Old Latin \"o\" > \"u\" before \"l pinguis\", i.e., an \"l\" not followed by \"i, ī,\" or \"l\":\n\n3. But they remain \"o\" before \"l pinguis\" when immediately following a vowel:\n\n4. Before /w/ the result is always \"u\", in which case the /w/ is not written:\n\n5. They become \"i\" before one consonant other than \"r\" or \"l pinguis\":\n\n6. But they sometimes become \"e\" before one consonant other than \"r\" or \"l pinguis\", when immediately following a vowel:\n\n7. Variation between \"i\" and (often earlier) \"u\" is common before a single labial consonant (\"p, b, f, m\"), underlyingly the sonus medius vowel:\n\nMedially before two consonants, when the first is not \"r\" or \"l pinguis\", the vowels do not merge to the same degree:\n\n1. Original \"a\", \"e\" and \"u\" merge into \"e\":\n\n2. But original \"i\" is unaffected:\n\n3. And original \"o\" raises to \"u\":\n\nExon's Law dictates that if there are two light medial syllables in a row (schematically, \"σσ̆σ̆σ\", where \"σ\" = syllable and \"σ̆\" = light syllable, where \"light\" means a short vowel followed by only a single consonant), the first syllable syncopates (i.e. the vowel is deleted):\n\nSyncopation tends to occur after \"r\" and \"l\" in all non-initial syllables, sometimes even in initial syllables.\nSometimes early syncope causes apparent violations of Exon's Law:\n\nSyncope of \"-i-\" also occurred in \"-ndis\", \"-ntis\" and \"-rtis\". \"-nts\" then became \"-ns\" with lengthening of the preceding vowel, while \"-rts\" was simplified to \"-rs\" without lengthening.\n\nIn final syllables of polysyllabic words before a final consonant or cluster, short \"a, e, i\" merge into either \"e\" or \"i\" depending on the following consonant, and short \"o, u\" merge into \"u\".\n\n1. Short \"a, e, i\" merge into \"i\" before a single non-nasal consonant:\n\n2. Short \"a, e, i\" merge into \"e\" before a cluster or a single nasal consonant:\n\n3. Short \"o, u\" merge into \"u\":\n\n4. All short vowels apparently merge into \"-e\" in absolute final position.\n\nLong vowels in final syllables shorten before most consonants (but not final \"s\"), yielding apparent exceptions to the above rules:\n\nAbsolutely final long vowels are apparently maintained with the exception of \"ā\", which is shortened in the 1st declension nominative singular and the neuter plural ending (both < PIE *\"-eh₂\") but maintained in the 1st conjugation 2nd sg. imperative (< PIE *\"-eh₂-yé\").\n\nProto-Italic maintained all PIE diphthongs except for the change \"*eu\" > \"*ou\". The Proto-Italic diphthongs tend to remain into Old Latin but generally reduce to pure long vowels by Classical Latin.\n\n1. PIE \"*ei\" > Old Latin \"ei\" > \"ẹ̄\", a vowel higher than \"ē\" < PIE \"*ē\". This then developed to \"ī\" normally, but to \"ē\" before \"v\":\n\n2. PIE \"*eu, *ou\" > Proto-Italic \"*ou\" > Old Latin \"ou\" > \"ọ̄\" (higher than \"ō\" < PIE \"*ō\") > \"ū\":\n\n3. PIE \"*ai\", *\"Hei\" > \"ae\":\n\n4. PIE \"*au\" > \"au\":\n\n5. PIE \"*oi\" > Old Latin \"oi, oe\" > \"ū\" (occasionally preserved as \"oe\"):\n\nAll diphthongs in medial syllables become \"ī\" or \"ū\".\n\n1. (Post-)PIE \"*ei\" > \"ī\", just as in initial syllables:\n\n2. (Post-)PIE \"*oi\" > \"ū\", just as in initial syllables:\n\n3. (Post-)PIE \"*eu, *ou\" > Proto-Italic \"*ou\" > \"ū\", just as in initial syllables:\n\n4. Post-PIE \"*ai\" > Old Latin \"ei\" > \"ī\":\n\n5. Post-PIE \"*au\" > \"ū\" (rarely \"oe\"):\n\nMostly like medial syllables:\n\nDifferent from medial syllables:\n\nThe PIE syllabic resonants \"*m̥, *n̥, *r̥, *l̥\" generally become \"em, en, or, ol\" (cf. Greek \"am/a, an/a, ar/ra, al/la\"; Germanic \"um, un, ur, ul\"; Sanskrit \"am/a, an/a, r̥, r̥\"; Lithuanian \"im̃, iñ, ir̃, il̃\"):\n\nThe laryngeals \"*h₁, *h₂, *h₃\" appear in Latin as \"a\" when between consonants, as in most languages (but Greek \"e/a/o\" respectively, Sanskrit \"i\"):\n\nA sequence of syllabic resonant + laryngeal, when before a consonant, produced \"mā, nā, rā, lā\" (as also in Celtic, cf. Greek \"nē/nā/nō, rē/rā/rō\", etc. depending on the laryngeal; Germanic \"um, un, ur, ul\"; Sanskrit \"ā, ā, īr/ūr, īr/ūr\"; Lithuanian \"ím, ín, ír, íl\"):\n\nThe Indo-European voiced aspirates \"bʰ, dʰ, gʰ, gʷʰ\", which were probably breathy voiced stops, first devoiced in initial position (fortition), then fricatized in all positions, producing pairs of voiceless/voiced fricatives in Proto-Italic: \"f\" ~ \"β\", ' ~ \"ð\", ' ~ ', ' ~ \"\" respectively. The fricatives were voiceless in initial position. However, between vowels and other voiced sounds, there are indications — in particular, their evolution in Latin — that the sounds were actually voiced. Likewise, Proto-Italic /s/ apparently had a voiced allophone [z] in the same position.\n\nIn all Italic languages, the word-initial voiceless fricatives \"f\", \"θ\", and \"χʷ\" all merged to \"f\"; thus, in Latin, the normal outcome of initial PIE \"bʰ, dʰ, gʰ, gʷʰ\" is \"f, f, h, f\", respectively. Examples:\n\nWord-internal \"*-bʰ-, *-dʰ-, *-gʰ-, *-gʷʰ-\" evolved into Proto-Italic \"β\", \"ð\", \"ɣ\", \"ɣʷ\". In Osco-Umbrian, the same type of merger occurred as that affecting voiceless fricatives, with \"β\", \"ð\", and \"ɣʷ\" merging to \"β\". In Latin, this did not happen, and instead the fricatives defricatized, giving \"b, d ~ b, g ~ h, g ~ v ~ gu\".\n\n\"*-bʰ-\" is the simplest case, consistently becoming \"b\".\n\n\"*-dʰ-\" usually becomes \"d\", but becomes \"b\" next to \"r\" or \"u\", or before \"l\".\n\nThe development of \"*-gʰ-\" is twofold: \"*-gʰ-\" becomes \"h\" [ɦ] between vowels but \"g\" elsewhere:\n\n\"*-gʷʰ-\" has three outcomes, becoming \"gu\" after \"n\", \"v\" between vowels, and \"g\" next to other consonants. All three variants are visible in the same root \"*snigʷʰ-\" \"snow\" (cf. Irish \"snigid\" \"snows\", Greek \"nípha\"):\nOther examples:\n\n\"*gʷ\" has results much like non-initial \"*-gʷʰ\", becoming \"v\" /w/ in most circumstances, but \"gu\" after a nasal and \"g\" next to other consonants:\n\n\"*kʷ\" remains as \"qu\" before a vowel, but reduces to \"c\" /k/ before a consonant or next to a \"u\":\n\nThe sequence \"*p ... *kʷ\" assimilates to \"*kʷ ... *kʷ\":\n\nThe sequences \"*ḱw, *ǵw, *ǵʰw\" develop identically to \"*kʷ, *gʷ, *gʷʰ\":\n\nInitial \"*dw-\" (attested in Old Latin as \"du-\") becomes \"b-\", thus compensating for the dearth of words beginning with \"*b\" in PIE:\n\nIndo-European \"s\" between vowels was first voiced to [z] in late Proto-Italic and became \"r\" in Latin and Umbrian, a change known as rhotacism. Early Old Latin documents still have \"s\" [z], and Cicero once remarked that a certain Papirius Crassus officially changed his name from Papisius in 339 .., indicating the approximate time of this change. This produces many alternations in Latin declension:\nOther examples:\nHowever, before another \"r\", dissimilation occurred with \"sr\" [zr] becoming \"br\" (likely via an intermediate \"*ðr\"):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41863312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41863312", "title": "Hit-and-run DDoS", "text": "Hit-and-run DDoS\n\nHit-and-run DDoS is a type of denial-of-service (DDoS) attack that uses short bursts of high volume attacks in random intervals, spanning a time frame of days or weeks. The purpose of a hit-and-run DDoS is to prevent a user of a service from using that service by bringing down the host server. This type of attack is to be distinguished from a persistent DDoS attack which continues until the attacker stops the attack or the host server is able to defend against it. \n\nA DDoS attack is characterized by an explicit attempt by attackers to prevent legitimate users of a service from using that service. A hit-and-run DDoS is accomplished by using high volume network or application attacks in short bursts. The attacks only last long enough to bring down the server hosting the service, normally 20 to 60 minutes. The attack is then repeated every 12 to 24 hours over a period of days or weeks, causing issues for the company hosting the service. \n\nHit-and-run DDoS is sometimes used as a test DDoS attack. An attacker will inject a few bad packets into a network to test if it is online and functioning. Once the network is verified as functioning, an attacker will then use a persistent DDoS attack. \n\nHit-and-run DDoS exploits anti-DDoS software and services which are used to defend against prolonged DDoS attacks. Activating such software can take longer than the actual attack, allowing a denial of service before DDoS protection can start to defend from the attack.\n\n"}
{"id": "26100001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26100001", "title": "Hvar culture", "text": "Hvar culture\n\nHvar culture, also known as Hvar-Lisičići culture, was a Neolithic culture in the eastern Adriatic coast.\n\n"}
{"id": "21920740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21920740", "title": "Instituto Hondureño de Antropología e Historia", "text": "Instituto Hondureño de Antropología e Historia\n\nThe Instituto Hondureño de Antropología e Historia (IHAH, \"Honduran Institute of Anthropology and History\") is a government institution in the republic of Honduras.\n\nIt formed on July 22, 1952 by Decree No. 24 originally under the name of National Institute of Anthropology and History under the government of Dr. Juan Manuel Gálvez.\n\nIn 1968, Decree No. 118, changed its name to the \"Instituto Hondureño de Antropología e Historia \", which changed its administrative autonomy, legal personality and own patrimony.\n\nThe IHAH has a website, where their publications are available daily.\n\nThe Honduran Institute of Anthropology and History has the following departments:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5424737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5424737", "title": "Iraj Afshar", "text": "Iraj Afshar\n\nIraj Afshar (8 October 1925 – 9 March 2011) () was a bibliographer, historian, and an iconic figure in the field of Persian studies. He was a consulting editor of \"Encyclopædia Iranica\" at Columbia University and a full professor emeritus of University of Tehran. \n\nIraj Afshar recorded the monuments of Yazd in his three-volume \"yādegār-hāye Yazd (Monuments of Yazd)\". He was known as \"the doyen of standard Persian language bibliographers\". Afshar played a significant role in the development of the field of Iranology in Iran and throughout the world during the second half of the 20th century. \nHe was the editor of \"Sokhan\", a prolific Iranology journal, under the responsibility of Parviz Natel-Khanlari and also the editor of \"rāhnamāye ketāb\" (Bibliography Guide), \"Mehr\", \"farhang-e Iranzamin\" (Culture of Iran) and \"Ayandeh\".\n\nHe was the chief bibliographer of Persian books at Harvard University. Afshar was associated with UNESCO and taught at the University of Bern and University of Tehran.\n\nHe was on the advisory council for the Iranian Studies Journal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2543634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2543634", "title": "Javad Tabatabai", "text": "Javad Tabatabai\n\nJavad Tabatabai (born 1945 in Tabriz) is an Iranian philosopher and political scientist. He was Professor and Vice Dean of the Faculty of Law and Political Science at the University of Tehran. \n\nAfter pursuing studies in theology, law and philosophy, he earned his PhD (Doctorat d’État) in political philosophy from the University of Paris 1 Pantheon-Sorbonne, with a dissertation on Hegel’s political philosophy. He has been a guest fellow at the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin, as well as at the Moynihan Institute of Global Affairs at Syracuse University. Dr Tabatabai has published a dozen books on the history of political ideas in Europe and Iran. On 14 July 1995, he was decorated as a Knight of the Ordre des Palmes Académiques.\n\nTabatabai's ideas about modernity have similarities with the nation-building policies of Pahlavi era in Iran. This has infuriated those who advocate decentralization and more autonomy for ethnical minorities (estimated to constitute close to 38% of Iranian population). His most recent interview has caused heated debates in political circles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55611566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55611566", "title": "Johanna Naber", "text": "Johanna Naber\n\nJohanna Wilhelmina Antoinette Naber (March 25, 1859 – May 30, 1941) was a Dutch feminist, historian and author during the first feminist wave. She was one of the three founders of the International Archives for the Women's Movement (1935), now known as Atria Institute on gender equality and women's history, and was herself a prolific author of historical texts about influential women and the women’s movement.\nNaber was born in Haarlem to an affluent and intellectual Dutch family. She was the second child and first daughter of rector and (future) professor of philology and classical languages Samuel Adrianus Naber (1828–1913) and his wife Anna Elizabeth L’Honoré (1830–1915). Two of her brothers went on to become professors. The Naber family moved from Zwolle (where they had moved to in 1864) to Amsterdam in 1870. In 1876, Johanna Naber received her HBS diploma after which she continued studying to acquire several teaching certificates. Despite his daughter’s ambitions, Samuel Naber did not allow her to study at university. Naber remained unmarried and was therefore expected to stay at home and care for her elderly parents and, later, her unmarried brothers. Naber lived on her own for the first time at age 77. Naber’s first book, pertaining to artistic needlework, was published under the pseudonym of Rechlindis in 1887.\n\nNaber’s involvement with the Dutch women’s movement started in 1896 when she signed up to contribute to the organisation of the National Exhibition on Women’s Work. During the exhibition, which took place in 1898, she served as editor and writer for its official magazine \"Vrouwenarbeid\" (‘Women’s Work’). Naber went on to become board member and press officer of the \"Vereeniging voor Vrouwenkiesrecht\" (the Dutch Organisation for Women’s Suffrage). She was one of six Dutch women who were present at the inaugural meeting of the International Woman Suffrage Alliance (IWSA) in Berlin in 1904. She briefly serves as the IWSA’s Second Assistant Secretary, but was forced to resign due to her commitments as historian and author. She was involved in the organisation of a second exhibition on women’s contributions to society in 1913 and consequently met several times with Dutch queen Wilhelmina who eventually knighted her in the Order of Oranje-Nassau.\nShe was president of the Dutch Women's Council between 1917 and 1922. In her capacity as president, she was also involved with the International Council of Women. In the 1930s, she participated in the (eventually) successful opposition of a bill that proposed to ban married women from working (something she had also successfully opposed in 1910).\n\nNaber was a self-taught historian. During the 1890s, she started publishing on important female historical figures. During her lifetime she published many biographies of noteworthy women as well as works on the early Dutch women’s movement in the 19th century. Some notable works include her 1909 \"Wegbereidsters\" ('Pioneers') about various women who had paved the way for the women’s movement and \"Frederika Bremer (1901-1865). Naar hare brieven\" (1921) a biography of Swedish feminist and author Frederika Bremer based on her letters. She furthermore braved an attempt at an overview of the Dutch Women's Movement (entitled \"Eerste Proeve van een Chronologisch Overzicht van de Geschiedenis der Vrouwenbeweging in Nederland\"). This text later functioned as an important reference work for fellow IAV-founder Willemijn Posthumus-van der Goot’s seminal overview of the Dutch women’s movement since the 19th century \"Van Moeder op Dochter\" (‘Mother to Daughter’).\nIn 1914, Naber established \"De Nederlandsche Vrouwengids\" (‘The Dutch Women’s Guide’) to address women’s issues and concerns. The \"Guide\" ran until 1919. In 1918, she became the first female board member of the prestigious Maatschappij der Nederlandse Letterkunde or Society of Dutch Literature.\n\nIn 1935 she collaborated with Dutch feminists Willemijn Posthumus-van der Goot and Rosa Manus to establish the International Archives for the Women's Movement (IAV), now known as Atria Institute on gender equality and women's history.\n\nUnlike many of her contemporaries in the women’s movement, Naber was a staunch opposer of pacifism and was involved in several organisations that plead for a strong army in the early 1920s. She was a member of the Liberal State Party and her perspective on gender equality was adopted as part of the party’s programme.\n\nNaber died at age 82 on May 30, 1941 in the Hague.\n\n"}
{"id": "1399576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1399576", "title": "Joice Mujuru", "text": "Joice Mujuru\n\nJoice \"Teurai-Ropa\" Mujuru (born Runaida Mugari; 15 April 1955) is a Zimbabwean politician who served as Vice-President of Zimbabwe from 2004 to 2014. Previously she had served as a government minister. She also served as Vice-President of ZANU-PF. She was married to Solomon Mujuru until his death in 2011 and was long considered a potential successor to President Robert Mugabe, but in 2014 she was denounced for allegedly plotting against Mugabe. As a result of the accusations against her, Mujuru lost both her post as Vice-President and her position in the party leadership. She was expelled from the party a few months later, after which she formed the new Zimbabwe People First party.\n\nMujuru was born in Zimbabwe's Northeastern district of Mt. Darwin, a Shona from the Korekore language group . As a Shona (a conglomeration of various tribes with a common sounding Bantu language) she is of the same language group as Vice-President Joseph Msika and President Robert Mugabe as well as political rivals Morgan Tsvangirai and Emmerson Mnangagwa. However, they come from different dialect groups with Mugabe being Zezuru and Mnangagwa being Karanga. Tsvangirai is a Manyika from Buhera District in Manicaland.\n\nAt eighteen years old, Mujuru was the only woman who trained in Lusaka. After completing two years of secondary education, she decided to join the Rhodesian Bush War. She is said to have downed a helicopter with a machine gun on 17 February 1974 after refusing to flee.The helicopter downing incident has been vehemently denied by War Veterans chairman, the acid tongued Christopher Mutsvangwa after her (Mujuru) expulsion from the party, other ballistic experts have also questioned the possibility of shooting down a helicopter with such a light weapon as narrated on her story. By 1975, she was the political instructor of two successful military bases. At 21, Mujuru was camp commander at Chimoio military and refugee camp in Mozambique.\n\nShe took the nom-de-guerre \"Teurai Ropa\" (spill blood), and then rose to become one of the first women commanders in Mugabe's ZANLA forces. In 1977, she married Solomon Mujuru, known then as \"Rex Nhongo\", deputy commander-in-chief of ZANLA. That same year, she became the youngest member of the Central Committee, a member of the National Executive. Her political activity made her a target for the Rhodesian security forces, which tried to capture her but were unsuccessful. On 23rd November 1977 the ZANLA camp at Chimoio came under attack from Rhodesian forces as part of Operation Dingo. Mujuru avoided capture by carefully concealing herself in a well-used communal pit latrine. In 1978, when her camp came under attack, Muruji—nine months pregnant at the time—was still an active combatant. She gave birth only days later.\n\nUpon return from the war, little was known of the origins of her name and her real name. Her mother, in an interview for The Sunday Mail newspaper at her rural Mount Darwin home, spoke exclusively to journalist and media anthropologist Robert Mukondiwa, to whom she revealed that Joice was a name she had also adopted during her time away at the war. Her actual name, he was told, was Runaida, which had been her late paternal aunt's name.\n\nThe Mujurus now live on a requisitioned farm, Alamein Farm, south of Harare, which has been found by the Supreme Court in Zimbabwe to have been illegally seized from the farm owner.\n\nAt independence in 1980, Mujuru became the youngest cabinet minister in the cabinet, taking the portfolio of sports, youth and recreation. She fitted secondary school in between her busy schedule after she was appointed minister.\n\nAs Minister of Telecommunications, she tried to stop Strive Masiyiwa from establishing his independent cellphone network Econet. Masiyiwa had been given an ultimatum by the cabinet to sell his imported equipment to his rivals. On 24 March 1997, Mujuru decided to issue Zimbabwe's second cellular telephone licence to the previously unknown Zairois consortium Telecel, cutting out Masiyiwa. The Zairois consortium included her husband Solomon and President Robert Mugabe's nephew Leo. After many legal fights, Masiyiwa won his licence in December 1997.\n\nThe ZANU-PF Women's League resolved at its annual conference held in September 2004 to put forward a female candidate for the party's vice-presidency, a position left vacant following the death of Simon Muzenda.\n\nMugabe bowed to pressure from a ZANU-PF faction led by Mujuru's husband, General Solomon Mujuru, to give a woman the second vice-presidency post—effectively sidelining Speaker of Parliament Emmerson Mnangagwa, widely seen as his favoured heir. This ZANU-PF reshuffle was dubbed \"the night of the long knives\" by the Zimbabwe Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nMujuru was sworn in as Vice-President of Zimbabwe on 6 December 2004.\n\nMujuru was nominated as ZANU-PF's candidate for the House of Assembly seat from Mt. Darwin West in the March 2008 parliamentary election. According to official results she won the seat by an overwhelming margin, receiving 13,236 votes against 1,792 for Gora Madzudzo, the candidate of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) faction led by Morgan Tsvangirai. This ran contrary to earlier claims from the MDC that Mujuru had lost the seat. After the election, she was again sworn in as Vice-President by Mugabe on 13 October 2008, together with Msika.\n\nShe is the subject of personal sanctions imposed by the United States.\n\nShe currently lives on Alamein Farm, a productive and high-value operation illegally requisitioned as part of the land reform programme from Guy Watson-Smith in 2001, as found by the Zimbabwe High Court and international courts. In 2001 the Mujuru family became the subject of the first legal action against any member of Mr Mugabe's inner circle implicated in the illegal seizure of land and assets.\n\nThe seizure of Alamein Farm was ruled illegal by the Supreme Court of Zimbabwe.\n\nMujuru was considered a potential successor to President Mugabe, competing against Emmerson Mnangagwa. She rallied support among the politburo, central committee and the presidium, and the provincial party chairs. She also garnered support from the general Zimbabwean population, indicated by the election of her loyalists to the youth league. However, her succession was expected to be challenged at the December 2014 congress, where the members of all politburo and central committee cadres were expected to seek re-election.\n\nIn late 2014, Mujuru was accused of plotting against Mugabe and became an outcast within ZANU-PF. She lost her positions in the party leadership at the December 2014 congress, and shortly afterward, on 8 December 2014, Mugabe dismissed her from her post as Vice-President, along with ministers who were identified with her faction. In comments published on 9 December, the same day the dismissals were announced, Mujuru said that the claims that she had plotted against Mugabe were \"ridiculous\".\n\nOn 10 December 2014, Mugabe appointed Mujuru's long-time rival in the succession battle, Emmerson Mnangagwa, to replace her as Vice-President.\n\nMujuru was expelled from ZANU-PF on 3 April 2015 and subsequently moved on to form the Zimbabwe People First party, in opposition to ZANU-PF. In 2017 after expelling seven senior members of the \"Zimbabwe People First\" party, she changed its name to \"National People's Party\" when the expelled members challenged ownership of the Zimbabwe People First name.\nJoice Mujuru has recently signed an alliance with 20 smaller parties. This is believed to be a counter to Tsvangirai's MDC alliance that is to give her a large bargaining power on the coalition table. THE Tendai Biti-led People's Democratic Party (PDP), Dumiso Dabengwa's Zapu and the National People's Party (NPP) led by former Vice-President Joice Mujuru unveiled a coalition pact to challenge Zanu PF in Matabeleland in the 2018 elections.The Zapu, NPP and PDP leadership said they would not contest each other for any parliamentary seats in Matabeleland, before noting that \"doors were still open\" for a broader coalition with other opposition parties, raising fears that the MDC Alliance, which was announced recently, could have hit turbulence.\n\nShe is part of the 23 candicates running for the Presidency \n\nJoice Mujuru was implicated in a 2009 attempted sale of up to 3.5 tonnes of gold from the Democratic Republic of the Congo to a European company, in contravention of European Union sanctions on the part of that company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58449042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58449042", "title": "Jonas Nordin", "text": "Jonas Nordin\n\nJonas Nordin (born 1968) is a Swedish author and historian, and from October 2018 professor in History of books and Libraries at Lund University.\n\nNordin studied history at Stockholm University, and was awarded his Ph.D. in 2000 for his dissertation \"Ett fattigt men fritt folk. Nationell och politisk självbild i Sverige från sen stormaktstid till slutet av frihetstiden\" (English title: \"A poor but free people\") (2000), an investigation of the public national and political orientation during Swedish \"Great Power Era\" (Stormaktstiden) and Age of Liberty (frihetstiden).\n\nHe became docent 2009 and from 1 October 2018 professor in History of books and Libraries at Lund University.\n\nNordin has received the Swedish literary award Clio Prize (2003), and the Swedish Academy Gustavian Stipendium (Svenska Akademiens gustavianska stipendium) (2014).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47612536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47612536", "title": "Juan José de Jesús Yas", "text": "Juan José de Jesús Yas\n\nJuan José de Jesús Yas (1856 - 1917) was a Japanese photographer who established himself in Antigua Guatemala, Guatemala and documented that city toward the end of the 19th century and early 20th century.\n\nYas arrived to Guatemala as translator of the famous Mexican astronomer Covarrubias and he liked photography so much, that he became a student of German professor Herbruger.\n\nDied in Antigua Guatemala in 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "7985663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7985663", "title": "Kathleen Coleman", "text": "Kathleen Coleman\n\nKathleen M. Coleman is an academic and writer who is the James Loeb Professor of the Classics at Harvard University. Her research interests include Latin literature, history and culture in the early Roman Empire, and arena spectacles. Her expertise in the latter area led to her appointment as Chief Academic Consultant for the 2000 film \"Gladiator\".\n\nColeman was born and raised in Zimbabwe. She received her BA from the University of Cape Town in 1973, followed by a BA Hons from the University of Rhodesia in 1975 and a DPhil from Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford in 1979. She taught at the University of Cape Town from 1979 to 1993 and held the chair of Latin at Trinity College, Dublin from 1993 to 1998. Since 1998 she has been a professor at Harvard College. In 2009 Coleman was elected an Honorary Member of the Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies and in 2012 a Corresponding Member of the Bayerische Akademie der Wissenschaften (Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities). Coleman has been a Fellow of the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin and the Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung. In 2005 she was awarded the Joseph R. Levenson Teaching Prize for Senior Faculty by the Undergraduate Council of Harvard College, and in 2011 she served as President of the American Philological Association (now the Society for Classical Studies). Coleman is a member of the editorial boards of The American Journal of Philology, Eirene, Exemplaria Classica, Mnemosyne and Mnemosyne Supplements, and Rivista di Filologia e Istruzione Classica.\n\nDue to her extensive knowledge of gladiatorial combat and its history, she acted as Chief Academic Consultant on the script of Ridley Scott's \"Gladiator\". Professor Coleman purportedly found her work as a historical consultant to have had such little effect that she asked to be listed in the credits without any mention of her function. She has since contributed an essay entitled \"The Pedant Goes to Hollywood: The Role of the Academic Consultant\" to Martin Winkler's collection of essays on the topic.\n\n"}
{"id": "22392033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22392033", "title": "Leonard Blussé", "text": "Leonard Blussé\n\nLeonard Blussé (born July 23, 1946, in Rotterdam) is a Dutch historian concerned with the field of Asian-European relations. Blussé has a prolific written output in his field, having authored, co-authored or edited more than twenty books since 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "3224705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3224705", "title": "Letter of intent", "text": "Letter of intent\n\nA letter of intent (LOI or LoI, and sometimes capitalized as \"Letter of Intent\" in legal writing, but only when referring to a specific document under discussion) is a document outlining one or more agreements between two or more parties before the agreements are finalized. The concept is similar to a heads of agreement, term sheet or memorandum of understanding. Such outlined agreements may be mergers and acquisitions transaction agreements, joint venture agreements, real property lease agreements and several other categories of agreements that may govern material transactions.\n\nA letter of intent may be presented by one party to another party and subsequently negotiated before execution (or signature). If carefully negotiated, an LOI may serve to protect both parties to a transaction. For example, a seller of a business may incorporate what is known as a non-solicitation provision, which would restrict the buyer's ability to hire an employee of the seller's business should the two parties not be able to close the transaction. On the other hand, an LOI may protect the buyer of a business by expressly conditioning its obligation to complete the transaction if is unable to secure financing for the transaction.\n\nCommon purposes of an LOI are:\n\nPotential downsides to using an LOI may include:\n\nIn academia, a letter of intent is part of the application process, in which it is also known as a statement of purpose or application essay. In education in the United States, letters of intent are also frequently reached between high school senior athletes and colleges/universities, for the reservation of athletic scholarships for the athletes upon graduation from high school. School administrators in secondary education often require a letter of intent before approving the formation of a student club.\n\nIn real estate, in cases where the real property in question is not listed on a multiple listing service, there may not be an easy way to notify the owner of the property and other interested parties of intent to purchase. Often it is necessary to officially begin the process of a purchase, and allow all peripheral interested parties to begin any other processes, with a letter of intent. For example, a multimillion-dollar loan for a commercial property may require a letter of intent before a financial institution will allow personnel to spend time working on said loan necessary for the completion of the sale. The same may be followed at the time of purchase by any company. A tenant and landlord may sign a letter of intent prior to signing a lease agreement to stipulate rental rates and all regulations of the future tenancy.\n\nIn the solicitation of government grants, a letter of intent is highly encouraged but it is not required or binding, and does not enter into the review of a subsequent application. The information that it contains allows agency staff to estimate the potential workload and plan the review.\n\n"}
{"id": "17048209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17048209", "title": "Lex Scantinia", "text": "Lex Scantinia\n\nThe Lex Scantinia (less often Scatinia) is a poorly documented ancient Roman law that penalized a sex crime (\"stuprum\") against a freeborn male minor (\"ingenuus\" or \"praetextatus\"). The law may also have been used to prosecute adult male citizens who willingly took a passive role in having sex with other men. It was thus aimed at protecting the citizen's body from sexual abuse (\"stuprum\"), but did not prohibit homosexual behavior as such, as long as the passive partner was not a citizen in good standing. The primary use of the \"Lex Scantinia\" seems to have been harassing political opponents whose lifestyles opened them to criticism as passive homosexuals or pederasts in the Hellenistic manner.\n\nThe law may have made \"stuprum\" against a minor a capital crime, but this is unclear: a large fine may have been imposed instead, as executions of Roman citizens were rarely imposed by a court of law during the Republic. The conflation of the \"Lex Scantinia\" with later or other restrictions on sexual behaviors has sometimes led to erroneous assertions that the Romans had strict laws and penalties against homosexuality in general.\n\nLatin has no words that are straightforwardly equivalent to \"homosexual\" and \"heterosexual.\" The main dichotomy within Roman sexuality was active/dominant/masculine and passive/submissive/\"feminized.\" The adult male citizen was defined by his \"libertas\", \"liberty,\" and allowing his body to be used for pleasure by others was considered servile or submissive and a threat to his integrity. A Roman's masculinity was not compromised by his having sex with males of lower status, such as male prostitutes or slaves, as long as he took the active, penetrating role. Same-sex relations among Roman men thus differed from the Greek ideal of homosexuality among freeborn men of equal social status, but usually with some difference in age (see \"Homosexuality in ancient Greece\" and \"Pederasty in ancient Greece\"). The adult Roman male who enjoyed receiving anal sex or performing oral sex was thought to lack \"virtus\", the quality that distinguished a man (\"vir\").\n\nThe protective amulet (\"bulla\") worn by freeborn Roman boys was a visible sign that they were sexually off-limits. Puberty was considered a dangerous transitional stage in the formation of masculine identity. When a boy came of age, he removed his \"bulla\", dedicated it to the household gods, and became sexually active under the patronage of Liber, the god of both political and sexual liberty. Pederasty among the Romans involved an adult male citizen and a youth who was typically a slave between the ages of 12 and 20.\n\nAs John Boswell has noted, \"if there was a law against homosexual relations, no one in Cicero's day knew anything about it.\" Although the \"Lex Scantinia\" is mentioned in several ancient sources, its provisions are unclear. It penalized the debauchery (\"stuprum\") of a youth, but may also have permitted the prosecution of citizens who chose to take the pathic (\"passive\" or \"submissive\") role in homosexual relations. Suetonius mentions the law in the context of punishments for those who are \"unchaste,\" which for male citizens often implies pathic behavior; Ausonius has an epigram in which a \"semivir\", \"half-man,\" fears the \"Lex Scantinia\".\n\nIt has sometimes been argued that the \"Lex Scantinia\" was mainly concerned with the rape of freeborn youth, but the narrowness of this interpretation has been doubted. The law may have codified traditional sanctions against \"stuprum\" involving men, as a forerunner to the \"Lex Julia de adulteriis coercendis\" that criminalized adultery involving women. The early Christian poet Prudentius makes a scathing joke that if Jupiter had been subject to Roman law, he could have been convicted under both the Julian and the Scantinian laws.\n\nOnly youths from freeborn families in good standing were protected under the law; children born or sold into slavery, or those who fell into slavery through military conquest, were subject to prostitution or sexual use by their masters. Male prostitutes and entertainers, even if technically \"free,\" were considered \"infames\", of no social standing, and were also excluded from the protections afforded the citizen's body. Although male slaves were sometimes granted freedom in recognition of a favored sexual relationship with their master, in some cases of genuine affection they may have remained legally slaves, since under the \"Lex Scantinia\" the couple could have been prosecuted if both were free citizens.\n\nThe infrequency with which the \"Lex Scantinia\" is invoked in the literary sources suggests that prosecutions during the Republican era were aimed at harassing political opponents, while those during the reign of Domitian occurred in a general climate of political and moral crisis.\n\nTwo letters written to Cicero by Caelius indicate that the law was used as a \"political weapon\"; ancient Rome had no public prosecutors, and charges could be filed and prosecuted by any citizen with the legal expertise to do so. Abuse of the courts was reined in to some extent by the threat of \"calumnia\", a charge of malicious prosecution, but retaliatory charges motivated by politics or personal enmity, as Caelius makes clear in this case, were not uncommon. In 50 BC, Caelius was engaged in a feud with Appius Claudius Pulcher, the consul of 54 BC and a current censor, who had refused to lend him money and with whose sister Caelius had a disastrous love affair. Appius's term as censor was a moral \"reign of terror\" that stripped multiple senators and equestrians of their rank; sometime during the fall of that year he indicted Caelius, a sitting curule aedile, under the \"Lex Scantinia\". Caelius was happy to respond in kind. Both cases were presided over by the praetor Marcus Livius Drusus Claudianus—ironically, in the view of Caelius, since Drusus himself was \"a notorious offender\"—and evidently came to nothing. \"Few people,\" Eva Cantarella observed, \"were completely free of suspicion in this area.\"\n\nAlthough the law remained on the books, it had been largely ignored until Domitian began to enforce it as part of his broad program of judicial reform. The crackdown on \"public morals\" included sexual offenses such as adultery and illicit sex (\"incestum\") with a Vestal, and several men from both the senatorial and equestrian order were condemned under the \"Lex Scantinia\".\n\nQuintilian refers to a fine of 10,000 sesterces for committing \"stuprum\" with a freeborn male, sometimes construed as referring to the \"Lex Scantinia\", though the law is not named in the passage.\n\nA Roman law (\"lex\", plural \"leges\") was typically named after the official who proposed it, and never after a defendant. In 227 or 226 BC, Gaius Scantinius Capitolinus was put on trial for sexually molesting the son of Marcus Claudius Marcellus; a certain irony would attend the \"Lex Scantinia\" if in fact he had been its proposer. It may be that a relative of Scantinius Capitolinus proposed the law in a display of probity to disassociate the family name from the crime. The law has also been dated to 216 BC, when a Publius Scantinius was pontifex, or 149 BC. The earliest direct mention of it occurs in 50 BC, in the correspondence of Cicero, and it appears not at all in the \"Digest\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57392041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57392041", "title": "List of films and TV containing corporal punishment scenes", "text": "List of films and TV containing corporal punishment scenes\n\nThis is a list of films and TV containing corporal punishment scenes, which may be fictional or re-created and include military, prison, domestic, ritual, initiation, judicial and westerns.\n\n1930s\n1940s\n1950s\n1960s\n1970s\n1980s\n1990s\n2000s\n2010s\n"}
{"id": "31270479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31270479", "title": "List of historic reserves in Ukraine", "text": "List of historic reserves in Ukraine\n\nList of historic reserves in Ukraine includes historic sites that in Ukraine is known as Historic and Cultural Reserves. Main historic reserves are officially listed by the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine and usually known as national. There are other historic reserves that are established at regional level.\n\nHistoric and cultural reserves () are special legally defined territories that include ensembles and complexes of landmarks of history and culture, which possess exceptional historic, scientific and cultural value and placed under protection of the state.\n\nFirst historic and cultural reserves in Ukraine were created in 1920s. Resolutions of the Council of People's Commissars of the Ukrainian SSR proclaimed next territories as reserves: Ancient Greek Colony of Olbia (31 May 1924), the Monk's Hill in Kaniv – Taras Shevchenko burial (20 August 1925), Kiev Pechersk Lavra (29 September 1926), in Berdychiv (8 March 1928), Castle-Fortress in Kamianets-Podilskyi (23 March 1928), Prince Ostrogski Castle in Starokostiantyniv (15 January 1929), so called Dytynets in Chernihiv, territories of Chernihiv Saint Trinity Elijah Monastery and Chernihiv Yelets Dormition Monastery (18 March 1929) as well as Novhorod-Siverskyi Saint Transfiguration Monastery and Saint Cyril Church in Kiev. In total at the end of 1920s in the Ukrainian SSR existed 9 historic and cultural reserves. At that time there was started creation of reserves of local significance. Particularly according to respective decisions of local authorities there existed historic and archaeological reserve in Verkhniy Saltiv (1929; Vovchansk Raion), manor house and park \"Kachanivka\" (1928), others.\n\nDuring 1930s due to mass repressions among specialists of cultural heritage conservation and fall of the cultural heritage conservation system, many reserved territories lost their reserved status. After the World War II, portion of earlier created reserves that during the war suffered damage were not renewed in its reserved status. There were created new reserves, particularly the Kiev Acropolis with remnants of Church of the Tithes (1945), museum-reserve \"Fields of Battle for Kiev\" (1945), \"Fields of Battle of Poltava\" (1949), Ivan Tobilevych museum-reserve \"Khutir Nadia\" (1956). In 1965 there was announced creation of historic and cultural reserve at Khortytsia island in Zaporizhia, however due to unleashed ideological campaign in fight against the so called Ukrainian bourgeoisie nationalism all respective events were stopped.\n\nIn the mid 1970-80s process of creation of historic and cultural reserves started to be reviewed as an effective way to preserve not only separate landmarks, but whole historic and cultural complexes. The status of reserves was expanded to streets, neighborhoods, districts, historic city centers, historic landscapes. There were proclaimed historic and cultural reserves in cities of Lviv (1975), Kamianets-Podilskyi (1977), Sevastopol (1978), Ostroh (1981), Lutsk (1985), Putyvl (1986), Ancient Kiev (1987), Kerch (1987), Chyhyryn (1989), and others.\n\nWith proclamation of state independence of Ukraine, the process of establishing historic and cultural reserves had awakened. Particularly in the first half of 1990s there was initiated or reorganized 32 state reserves by providing them with more status weight. Among them were Historic and Cultural Reserve \"Taras Shevchenko Homeland\", \"Berestechko Battle Fields\", \"Hetmanate Capital\", \"Trakhtemyriv\" as well as historic and architectural and archaeological complexes in cities of Alupka, Bakhchysarai, Vyshhorod, Halych, Hlukhiv, Dubno, Zhovkva, Zbarazh, Zolochiv, Kamianets-Podilskyi, Novhorod-Siverskyi, village Verkhniy Saltiv, others.\n\nThe Presidential decree of 11 October 1994 \"About National Institutions of Culture\" defined status and order of creation national historic and cultural reserves. First national reserves became, particularly, historic and ethnographic reserve \"Pereyaslav\", historic and archaeological reserve \"Chersonesos of Taurica\", historic and architectural reserves \"Sophia of Kiev\", \"National Kiev Pechersk Historic and Cultural Reserve\", \"Chernihiv the Ancient\", \"Old Halych\", \"Chyhyryn\", \"Khortytsia\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32587703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32587703", "title": "Manangkari language", "text": "Manangkari language\n\nManangkari (Maung language), also known as Naragani, is an extinct Australian aboriginal language once spoken in the Cobourg Peninsula, Northern Territory. Manangkari belongs to the Iwaidjan family of languages, and may be a dialect of Maung.\n\nLike most Iwaidjan languages, but unlike Marrgu, Manangkari does not have a laminal dental series.\n\nEvans (1998) briefly discusses vowels in his paper noting that Iwaidjan languages including Manangkari have a three vowel ( /a/, /i/, /u/) system typical of most Australian languages.\n"}
{"id": "30405579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30405579", "title": "Marco Battagli", "text": "Marco Battagli\n\nMarco Battagli or Marcus de Battaglis (died 1370/76) was a historian from Rimini in North Eastern Italy. He wrote a universal chronicle in Latin.\n"}
{"id": "19333696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19333696", "title": "Münzmeister", "text": "Münzmeister\n\nIn medieval and early modern Germany, the Münzmeister (\"mint master\", the Latin term is \"monetarius\") was the director or administrator of a mint, a moneyer with responsibility for the minting of coins, or specie. His duties were defined differently at different locations and ages.\n\nThe need for currency was relatively low during Merovingian times. The \"Münzmeister\" produced coins in small workshops, working alone or with the aid of a few assistants, and handled the precious metals required. During Carolingian times, minting of specie became the task of royally appointed officials.\n\nDuring the High Middle Ages they were replaced by the \"Münzerhausgenossenschaft\", or minting house cooperative. Its members came from the ranks of rich burghers: usually merchants, precious-metal traders, moneychangers, goldsmiths, who in turn appointed one out of their ranks as \"Münzmeister\". For their labor, the members of the cooperative were due a share of the minting profits. They also enjoyed certain rights and privileges, including a monopoly on the purchase of gold and silver, exemption from customs duties and taxes, and independent jurisdiction in minting matters. The house cooperatives saw their heyday in the 13th and 14th centuries.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, the minting house cooperatives vanished when minting was taken over by sovereigns or cities. The \"Münzmeister\" was now an entrepreneur who determined weight, precious-metal content, seignorage and their own share, by way of free negotiations with the principals. Next to mines and shipyards, mints had become the largest enterprises of the age.\n\nIn modernity, local entrepreneurs and their mints gained in importance. The era saw the rise of \"Münzmeister\" dynasties, with leases that were extended over several generations. Frequently the coins bear symbols engraved by the \"Münzmeister\", often as tiny rosettae, tools, monographs or initials. In the 17th and 18th century the number of Jewish leaseholders in minting increased, not least because access of Jews to other occupations became more restricted on religious grounds.\n\nDuring the Habsburg era in Austria and Germany, the government soon began to establish a minting system. Austria created the office of a supreme heritable \"Münzmeister\" that provided for a sinecure without a share in profits. In Bohemia, too, the supreme office of \"Münzmeister\" was held by dukes and noblemen who at the same time supervised all the kingdom's mining facilities.\n\nBesides the \"Münzmeister\", there were other minting officials, such as the master smith, the dye-cutter, and the minter. The Münzwardein (in Latin, \"wardinus\") was tasked with making sure that minting was done properly from the right alloy. He also had to take samples that were presented to the \"Probationstag\" (= sampling commission) in line with official regulations. The sampling commission was constituted from the royal court or local gentry or their representatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "602641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602641", "title": "New world order (politics)", "text": "New world order (politics)\n\nThe term \"new world order\" has been used to refer to any new period of history evidencing a dramatic change in world political thought and the balance of power. Despite various interpretations of this term, it is primarily associated with the ideological notion of global governance only in the sense of new collective efforts to identify, understand, or address worldwide problems that go beyond the capacity of individual nation-states to solve.\n\nOne of the first and most well-known Western uses of the term was in Woodrow Wilson's Fourteen Points, and in a call for a League of Nations following the devastation of World War I. The phrase was used sparingly at the end of World War II when describing the plans for the United Nations and the Bretton Woods system, and partly because of its negative associations with the failed League of Nations. However, many commentators have applied the term retroactively to the order put in place by the World War II victors as a \"new world order.\"\n\nThe most widely discussed application of the phrase of recent times came at the end of the Cold War. Presidents Mikhail Gorbachev and George H. W. Bush used the term to try to define the nature of the post Cold War era, and the spirit of great power cooperation that they hoped might materialize. Gorbachev's initial formulation was wide-ranging and idealistic, but his ability to press for it was severely limited by the internal crisis of the Soviet system. Bush's vision was, in comparison, not less circumscribed: \"A hundred generations have searched for this elusive path to peace, while a thousand wars raged across the span of human endeavor. Today that new world is struggling to be born, a world quite different from the one we've known.\" However, given the new unipolar status of the United States, Bush's vision was realistic: \"...there is no substitute for American leadership.\" The Gulf War of 1991 was regarded as the first test of the new world order: \"Now, we can see a new world coming into view. A world in which there is the very real prospect of a new world order... The Gulf war put this new world to its first test...\"\n\nThe phrase \"new world order\" was explicitly used in connection with Woodrow Wilson's global zeitgeist during the period just after World War I, during the formation of the League of Nations. \"The war to end all wars\" had been a powerful catalyst in international politics, and many felt the world could simply no longer operate as it once had. The First World War had been justified not only in terms of U.S. national interest but in moral terms—to \"make the world safe for democracy.\" After the war, Wilson argued for a new world order which transcended traditional great power politics, instead emphasizing collective security, democracy, and self-determination. However, the United States Senate rejected membership of the League of Nations, which Wilson believed to be the key to a new world order. Senator Henry Cabot Lodge argued that American policy should be based on human nature \"as it is, not as it ought to be.\"\n\nNazi activist and future German leader Adolf Hitler used the term in 1928.\n\nThe term fell from use when it became clear the League was not living up to expectations, and as a consequence was used very little during the formation of the United Nations. Former UN Secretary General Kurt Waldheim felt that this new world order was a projection of the American dream into Europe, and that, in its naïveté, the idea of a new order had been used to further the parochial interests of Lloyd George and Clemenceau, thus ensuring the League's eventual failure. Although some have claimed the phrase was not used at all, Virginia Gildersleeve, the sole female delegate to the San Francisco Conference in April 1945, did use it in an interview with the \"New York Times\".\n\nThe phrase was used by some in retrospect when assessing the creation of the post–World War II set of international institutions: the United Nations; the U.S. security alliances such as NATO; the Bretton Woods system of the International Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; and even the Truman Doctrine and Marshall Plan were seen as characterizing or comprising this new order.\n\nH.G. Wells wrote a book published in 1940 entitled \"The New World Order\". It addressed the ideal of a world without war in which law and order emanated from a world governing body and examined various proposals and ideas.\n\nFranklin Delano Roosevelt in his \"Armistice Day Address Before the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier\" on November 11, 1940, referred to \"Novus ordo seclorum\", inscribed on the Great Seal of the United States and traced to antiquity. By this phrase Vergil announced the Augustan Golden Age. That Age was the dawn of the divine universal monarchy, but Roosevelt on that occasion promised to take the world order into the opposite, democratic direction, led by the United States and Britain.\n\nOn June 6, 1966, New York Senator Robert F. Kennedy used the phrase \"new world society\" in his Day of Affirmation Address in South Africa.\n\nThe phrase \"new world order\", as used to herald in the post–Cold War era, had no developed or substantive definition. There appear to have been three distinct periods in which it was progressively redefined, first by the Soviets, and later by the United States before the Malta Conference, and again after Bush's speech of September 11, 1991. \n\nThe first press reference to the phrase came from Russo-Indian talks, November 21, 1988. Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi used the term in reference to the commitments made by the USSR through the Declaration of Delhi of two years previous. The new world order which he describes is characterized by \"non-violence and the principles of peaceful coexistence.\" He also includes the possibility of a sustained peace, an alternative to the nuclear balance of terror, dismantling of nuclear weapons systems, significant cuts in strategic arms, and eventually a general and complete disarmament.\n\nThree days later, a \"Guardian\" article quotes NATO Secretary General Manfred Wörner as saying that the Soviets have come close to accepting NATO's doctrine of military stability based on a mix of nuclear as well as conventional arms. This, in his opinion, would spur the creation of \"a new security framework\" and a move towards \"a new world order.\"\n\nBut the principal statement creating the new world order concept came from Mikhail Gorbachev's December 7, 1988 speech to the United Nations General Assembly. His formulation included an extensive list of ideas in creating a new order. He advocated strengthening the central role of the United Nations, and the active involvement of all members—the Cold War had prevented the UN and its Security Council from performing their roles as initially envisioned. The de-ideologizing of relations among states was the mechanism through which this new level of cooperation could be achieved. Concurrently, Gorbachev recognized only one world economy—essentially an end to economic blocs. Furthermore, he advocated Soviet entry into several important international organizations, such as the CSCE and International Court of Justice. Reinvigoration of the UN peacekeeping role, and recognition that superpower cooperation can and will lead to the resolution of regional conflicts was especially key in his conception of cooperation. He argued that the use of force or the threat of the use of force was no longer legitimate, and that the strong must demonstrate restraint toward the weak. He foresaw, as the major powers of the world, the United States, the Soviet Union, Europe, India, China, Japan, and Brazil. He asked for cooperation on environmental protection, on debt relief for developing countries, on disarmament of nuclear weapons, on preservation of the ABM treaty, and on a convention for the elimination of chemical weapons. At the same time he promised the significant withdrawal of Soviet forces from Eastern Europe and Asia, as well as an end to the jamming of Radio Liberty.\n\nGorbachev described a phenomenon that could be described as a global political awakening:\n\nIn the press, Gorbachev was compared to Woodrow Wilson giving the Fourteen Points, to Franklin D. Roosevelt and Churchill promulgating the Atlantic Charter, and to Marshall and Truman building the Western Alliance. His speech, while visionary, was to be approached with caution. He was seen as attempting a fundamental redefinition of international relationships, on economic and environmental levels. His support \"for independence, democracy and social justice\" was highlighted. But the principle message taken from his speech was that of a new world order based on pluralism, tolerance, and cooperation.\nA month later, \"Time Magazine\" ran a longer analysis of the speech and its possible implications. The promises of a new world order based on the forswearing of military use of force was viewed partially as a threat, which might \"lure the West toward complacency\" and \"woo Western Europe into neutered neutralism.\" The more overriding threat, however, was that the West did not yet have any imaginative response to Gorbachev—leaving the Soviets with the moral initiative, and solidifying Gorbachev's place as \"the most popular world leader in much of Western Europe.\" The article noted as important his de-ideologized stance, willingness to give up use of force, commitment to troop cuts in Eastern Europe (accelerating political change there), and compliance with the ABM treaty. According to the article, the new world order seemed to imply: shifting of resources from military to domestic needs; a world community of states based on the rule of law; a dwindling of security alliances like NATO and the Warsaw Pact; and, an inevitable move toward European integration. The author of the \"Time\" article felt that Bush should counter Gorbachev's \"common home\" rhetoric toward the Europeans with the idea of \"common ideals,\" turning an alliance of necessity into one of shared values. Gorbachev's repudiation of expansionism leaves America in a good position, no longer having to support anti-communist dictators, and able to pursue better goals: the environment, nonproliferation of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons, reducing famine and poverty, and resolving regional conflicts. Similarly, in \"A World Transformed\", Bush and Scowcroft's concern about losing leadership to Gorbachev is noted, and they worry that the Europeans might stop following the U.S. if it appears to drag its feet.\n\nAs Europe passed into the new year, the implications of the new world order for the European Community surfaced. The EC was seen as the vehicle for integrating East and West in such a manner that they could \"pool their resources and defend their specific interests in dealings with those superpowers on something more like equal terms.\" It would be less exclusively tied to the U.S., and stretch \"from Brest to Brest-Litovsk, or at least from Dublin to Lublin.\" By July 1989, newspapers were still criticizing Bush for his lack of response to Gorbachev's proposals. Bush visited Europe but \"left undefined for those on both sides of the Iron Curtain his vision for the new world order\", leading commentators to view the U.S. as over-cautious and reactive, rather than pursuing long-range strategic goals.\n\nIn \"A World Transformed\", Bush and Scowcroft detail their crafting of a strategy aimed at flooding Gorbachev with proposals at the Malta Conference to catch him off guard, preventing the U.S. from coming out of the summit on the defensive.\n\nThe Malta Conference on December 2–3, 1989 reinvigorated discussion of the new world order. Various new concepts arose in the press as elements on the new order. Commentators expected the replacement of containment with superpower cooperation. This cooperation might then tackle problems such as reducing armaments and troop deployments, settling regional disputes, stimulating economic growth, lessening East-West trade restrictions, the inclusion of the Soviets in international economic institutions, and protecting the environment. Pursuant to superpower cooperation, a new role for NATO was forecast, with the organization perhaps changing into a forum for negotiation and treaty verification, or even a wholesale dissolution of NATO and the Warsaw Pact following the resurrection of the four-power framework from World War II (i.e. the U.S., United Kingdom, France, and Russia). However, continued U.S. military presence in Europe was expected to help contain \"historic antagonisms\", thus making possible a new European order.\n\nIn Europe, German reunification was seen as part of the new order. However, Strobe Talbott saw it as more of a brake on the new era, and believed Malta to be a holding action on part of the superpowers designed to forestall the \"new world order\" because of the German question. Political change in Eastern Europe also arose on the agenda. The Eastern Europeans believed that the new world order didn't signify superpower leadership, but that superpower dominance was coming to an end.\n\nIn general, the new security structure arising from superpower cooperation seemed to indicate to observers that the new world order would be based on the principles of political liberty, self-determination, and non-intervention. This would mean an end to the sponsoring of military conflicts in third countries, restrictions on global arms sales, and greater engagement in the Middle East (especially regarding Syria, Palestine, and Israel). The U.S. might use this opportunity to more emphatically promote human rights in China and South Africa.\n\nEconomically, debt relief was expected to be a significant issue, as East-West competition would give way to North-South cooperation. Economic tripolarity would arise with the U.S., Germany, and Japan as the three motors of world growth. Meanwhile, the Soviet social and economic crisis was manifestly going to limit its ability to project power abroad, thus necessitating continued U.S. leadership.\n\nCommentators assessing the results of the Conference, and how the pronouncements measured up to expectations, were underwhelmed. Bush was criticized for taking refuge behind notions of \"status quo-plus\" rather than a full commitment to new world order. Others noted that Bush thus far failed to satisfy the out-of-control \"soaring expectations\" that Gorbachev's speech unleashed.\n\nBush started to take the initiative from Gorbachev during the run-up to the Persian Gulf War, when he began to define the elements of the new world order as he saw it and link the new order's success to the international community's response in Kuwait.\n\nInitial agreement by the Soviets to allow action against Saddam highlighted this linkage in the press. The \"Washington Post\" declared that this superpower cooperation demonstrates that the Soviet Union has joined the international community, and that in the new world order Saddam faces not just the U.S. but the international community itself. A \"New York Times\" editorial was the first to assert that at stake in the collective response to Saddam was \"nothing less than the new world order which Bush and other leaders struggle to shape.\" \n\nIn \"A World Transformed\", Scowcroft notes that Bush even offered to have Soviet troops amongst the coalition forces liberating Kuwait. Bush places the fate of the new world order on the ability of the U.S. and the Soviet Union to respond to Hussein's aggression. The idea that the Persian Gulf War would usher in the new world order began to take shape. Bush notes that the \"premise [was] that the United States henceforth would be obligated to lead the world community to an unprecedented degree, as demonstrated by the Iraqi crisis, and that we should attempt to pursue our national interests, wherever possible, within a framework of concert with our friends and the international community.\"\n\nOn March 6, 1991, President Bush addressed Congress in a speech often cited as the Bush administration's principal policy statement on the new world order in the Middle East, following the expulsion of Iraqi forces from Kuwait. Michael Oren summarizes the speech, saying; \"The president proceeded to outline his plan for maintaining a permanent U.S. naval presence in the Persian Gulf, for providing funds for Middle East development, and for instituting safeguards against the spread of unconventional weapons. The centerpiece of his program, however, was the achievement of an Arab-Israeli treaty based on the territory-for-peace principle and the fulfillment of Palestinian rights.\" As a first step Bush announced his intention to reconvene the international peace conference in Madrid.\n\nA pivotal point came with Bush's September 11, 1990 \"Toward a New World Order\" speech () to a joint session of Congress. This time it was Bush, not Gorbachev, whose idealism was compared to Woodrow Wilson, and to Franklin D. Roosevelt at the creation of the UN. Key points picked up in the press were:\nThese were the common themes that emerged from reporting about Bush's speech and its implications. Critics held that Bush and Baker remained too vague about what exactly the order entailed.\n\nThe \"New York Times\" observed that the American left was calling the new world order a \"rationalization for imperial ambitions\" in the Middle East, while the right rejected new security arrangements altogether and fulminated about any possibility of UN revival. Pat Buchanan predicted that the Persian Gulf War would in fact be the demise of the new world order, the concept of UN peacekeeping, and the U.S.'s role as global policeman.\n\nThe \"LA Times\" reported that the speech signified more than just the rhetoric about superpower cooperation. In fact, the deeper reality of the new world order was the United States' emergence \"as the single greatest power in a multipolar world.\" Moscow was crippled by internal problems, and thus unable to project power abroad. The United States, while hampered by economic malaise, was militarily unconstrained for the first time since the end of World War II. Militarily, it was now a unipolar world, as illustrated by the Persian Gulf crisis. While diplomatic rhetoric stressed a U.S.-Soviet partnership, the U.S. was deploying troops to Saudi Arabia, a mere 700 miles from the Soviet frontier, and was preparing for war against a former Soviet client state. Further, U.S. authority over the Soviets was displayed in 1) the unification of Germany, withdrawal of Soviet forces, and almost open appeal to Washington for aid in managing the Soviet transition to democracy, 2) withdrawal of Soviet support for Third World clients, and 3) Soviets seeking economic aid through membership in Western international economic and trade communities.\n\nThe speech was indeed pivotal but the meaning hidden. A pivotal interpretation of the speech came the same month a week later, on September 18, 1990. Then Charles Krauthammer delivered a lecture in Washington in which he introduced the idea of American unipolarity. By the fall 1990, his essay was published in \"Foreign Affairs\" titled \"The Unipolar Moment.\" It had few to do with Kuwait. The main point was:\n\nIn fact, as Lawrence Freedman commented in 1991, a \"unipolar\" world is now taken seriously. He details:\n\nWashington's capacity to exert overwhelming military power and leadership over a multinational coalition provides the \"basis for a \"Pax Americana\".\" Indeed, one of the problems with Bush's phrase: \"a call for 'order' from Washington chills practically everyone else, because it sounds suspiciously like a \"Pax Americana\".\" The unipolarity, Krauthammer noted, is the \"most striking feature of the post-Cold War world.\" The article proved to be epochal. Twelve years later, Krauthammer in \"The Unipolar Moment Revisited\" stated that the \"moment\" is lasting and lasting with \"acceleration.\" He replied to those who still refused to acknowledge the fact of unipolarity: \"If today's American primacy does not constitute unipolarity, then nothing ever will.\" In 1990, Krauthammer had estimated that the \"moment\" will last forty years at best; in 2002 he adjusted the estimation: \"Today, it seems rather modest. The unipolar moment has become the unipolar era.\" On the latter occasion, Krauthammer added perhaps his most significant comment: the new unipolar world order represents a \"unique to modern history\" structure.\n\n\"The Economist\" published an article explaining the drive toward the Persian Gulf War in terms presaging the run-up to the Iraq War of 2003. The author notes directly that despite the coalition, in the minds of most governments this is America's war, and Bush that \"chose to stake his political life on defeating Mr Hussein.\" An attack on Iraq would certainly shatter Bush's alliance, they assert, predicting calls from Security Council members saying that diplomacy should have been given more time and that they will not wish to allow a course of action \"that leaves America sitting too prettily as sole remaining superpower.\" When the unanimity of the Security Council ends, \"all that lovely talk about the new world order\" will too. And when casualties mount, \"Bush will be called a warmonger, an imperialist and a bully.\" The article goes on to say that Bush and James Baker's speechifying cannot save the new world order once they launch a controversial war. It closes noting that a wide consensus is not necessary for U.S. action—only a hardcore of supporters: Saudi Arabia, Arab states of the Persian Gulf, Egypt, and Britain. The rest need only not interfere.\n\nIn a passage with similar echoes of the future, Bush and Scowcroft explain in \"A World Transformed\" the role of the UN Secretary General in attempting to avert the Persian Gulf War. UN Secretary-General Javier Pérez de Cuéllar arrived at Camp David to ask what he could do to head off the war. Bush told him that it was important that we get full implementation on every UN resolution. \"If we compromise, we weaken the UN and our own credibility in building this new world order,\" I said. \"I think Saddam Hussein doesn't believe force will be used—or if it is, he can produce a stalemate.\" Additional meetings between Baker or Pérez and the Iraqis are rejected for fear that they will simply come back empty-handed once again. Bush fears that Javier will be cover for Hussein's manipulations. Pérez suggests another Security Council meeting, but Bush sees no reason for one.\n\nFollowing the Persian Gulf War which was seen as the crucible in which great power cooperation and collective security would emerge the new norms of the era—several academic assessments of the \"new world order\" idea were published.\n\nJohn Lewis Gaddis, a Cold War historian, wrote in \"Foreign Affairs\" about what he saw as the key characteristics of the potential new order: unchallenged American primacy, increasing integration, resurgent nationalism and religiosity, a diffusion of security threats, and collective security. He casts the fundamental challenge as one of integration versus fragmentation, and the concomitant benefits and dangers associated with each. Changes in communications, the international economic system, the nature of security threats, and the rapid spread of new ideas would prevent nations from retreating into isolation. In light of this, Gaddis sees a chance for the democratic peace predicted by liberal international relations theorists to come closer to reality. However, he illustrates that not only is the fragmentary pressure of nationalism manifest in the former Communist bloc countries and the Third World, but is also a considerable factor in the West. Further, a revitalized Islam could play both integrating and fragmenting roles— emphasizing common identity but also contributing to new conflicts that could resemble the Lebanese Civil War. The integration coming from the new order could also aggravate ecological, demographic, and epidemic threats. National self-determination, leading to the breakup and reunification of states (such as Yugoslavia on one hand, and Germany on the other) could signal abrupt shifts in the balance of power, with a destabilizing effect. Integrated markets, especially energy markets, are now a security liability for the world economic system, as events affecting energy security in one part of the globe could threaten countries far removed from potential conflicts. Finally, diffusion of security threats requires a new security paradigm involving low-intensity but more frequent deployment of peacekeeping troops—a type of mission that is hard to sustain under budgetary or public opinion pressure. Gaddis calls for aid to Eastern European countries, updated security and economic regimes for Europe, UN-based regional conflict resolution, a slower pace of international economic integration, and paying off the U.S. debt.\n\nHowever, statesman Strobe Talbott wrote of the new world order that it was only in the aftermath of the Persian Gulf War that the United Nations took a step toward redefining its role to take account of both interstate relations and intrastate events. Furthermore, he asserted that it was only as an unintended postscript to Desert Storm that Bush gave meaning to the \"new world order\" slogan. But, by the end of the year Bush stopped talking about a new world order. His advisers explained that he had dropped the phrase because he felt it suggested more enthusiasm for the changes sweeping the planet than he actually felt. He wanted, as an antidote to the uncertainties of the world, to stress the old verities of territorial integrity, national sovereignty and international stability. David Gergen suggested at the time that it was the recession of 1991–92 which finally killed the new world order idea within the White House. The economic downturn took a deeper psychological toll than expected while domestic politics were increasingly frustrated by paralysis, with the result that the United States toward the end of 1991 turned increasingly pessimistic, inward and nationalistic.\n\nIn 1992, Hans Köchler published a critical assessment of the notion of the \"new world order,\" describing it as an ideological tool of legitimation of the global exercise of power by the US in a unipolar environment. In Joseph S. Nye, Jr.'s analysis (1992), the collapse of the Soviet Union did not issue in a new world order per se, but rather simply allowed for the reappearance of the liberal institutional order that was supposed to have come into effect in 1945. This success of this order was not a fait accomplis, however. Three years later, G. John Ikenberry would reaffirm Nye's idea of a reclamation of the ideal post-World War II order, but would dispute the nay-sayers who had predicted post–Cold War chaos. By 1997, Anne-Marie Slaughter produced an analysis calling the restoration of the post-World War II order a \"chimera... infeasible at best and dangerous at worst.\" In her view, the new order was not a liberal institutionalist one, but one in which state authority disaggregated and decentralized in the face of globalization.\n\nSamuel Huntington wrote critically of the \"new world order\" and of Francis Fukuyama's \"End of History\" theory in \"The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order\":\n\nDespite the criticisms of the new world order concept, ranging from its practical unworkability to its theoretical incoherence, Bill Clinton not only signed on to the idea of the \"new world order,\" but dramatically expanded the concept beyond Bush's formulation. The essence of Clinton's election year critique was that Bush had done too little, not too much.\n\nAmerican intellectual Noam Chomsky, author of the 1994 book \"World Orders Old and New\", often describes the New World Order as a post-Cold-War era in which \"the New World gives the orders\". Commenting on the 1999 US-NATO bombing of Serbia, he writes:\n\nFollowing the rise of Boris Yeltsin, eclipsing Mikhail Gorbachev, and the election victory of Clinton over George H.W. Bush, the term \"new world order\" fell from common usage. It was replaced by competing, similar concepts about how the post–Cold War order would develop. Prominent among these were the ideas of the \"era of globalization,\" the \"unipolar moment,\" the \"end of history,\" and the \"Clash of Civilizations.\"\n\nA 2001 paper in \"Presidential Studies Quarterly\" examined the idea of the \"new world order\" as it was presented by the Bush administration (mostly ignoring previous uses by Gorbachev). Their conclusion was that Bush really only ever had three firm aspects to the new world order:\nThese were not developed into a policy architecture, but came about incrementally as a function of domestic, personal, and global factors. Because of the somewhat overblown expectations for the new world order in the media, Bush was widely criticized for lacking vision.\n\nThe Gulf crisis is seen as the catalyst for Bush's development and implementation of the new world order concept. The authors note that before the crisis, the concept remained \"ambiguous, nascent, and unproven\" and that the United States had not assumed a leadership role with respect to the new order. Essentially, the Cold War's end was the permissive cause for the new world order, but the Persian Gulf crisis was the active cause.\nThey reveal that in August 1990, U.S. Ambassador to Saudi Arabia Charles W. Freeman, Jr. sent a diplomatic cable to Washington from Saudi Arabia in which he argued that U.S. conduct in the Persian Gulf crisis would determine the nature of the world. Bush would then refer to the \"new world order\" at least 42 times from the summer of 1990 to the end of March 1991. They also note that Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney gave three priorities to the Senate on fighting the Persian Gulf War: prevent further aggression; protect oil supplies; and, further a new world order. The authors note that the new world order did not emerge in policy speeches until after Iraq's invasion of Kuwait, maintaining that the concept was clearly not critical in the U.S. decision to deploy. John H. Sununu later indicated that the administration wanted to refrain from talking about the concept until Soviet collapse was more clear. A reversal of Soviet collapse would have been the death knell for the new order.\n\nBush and Scowcroft were frustrated by the exaggerated and distorted ideas surrounding the new world order. They did not intend to suggest that the U.S. would yield significant influence to the UN, or that they expected the world to enter an era of peace and tranquility. They preferred multilateralism, but did not reject unilateralism. The new world order did not signal peace, but a \"challenge to keep the dangers of disorder at bay.\"\n\nBush's drive toward the Persian Gulf War was based on the world making a clear choice. Baker recalls that UNSCR 660's \"language was simply and crystal clear, purposely designed by us to frame the vote as being for or against aggression\". Bush's motivation centered around 1) the dangers of appeasement, and 2) failure to check aggression could spark further aggression. Bush repeatedly invoked images of World War II in this connection, and became very emotional over Iraqi atrocities being committed in Kuwait. He also believed that failure to check Iraqi aggression would lead to more challenges to the U.S.-favored status quo and global stability. While the end of the Cold War increased U.S. security globally, it remained vulnerable to regional threats. Furthermore, Washington believed that addressing the Iraqi threat would help reassert U.S. predominance in light of growing concerns about relative decline, following the resurgence of Germany and Japan.\nThe Gulf War was also framed as a test case for UN credibility. As a model for dealing with aggressors, Scowcroft believed that the United States ought to act in a way that others can trust, and thus get UN support. It was critical that the U.S. not look like it was throwing its weight around. Great power cooperation and UN support would collapse if the U.S. marched on the Baghdad to try to remake Iraq. However, practically, superpower cooperation was limited. For example, when the U.S. deployed troops to Saudi Arabia, Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze became furious at not being consulted.\n\nBy 1992, the authors note, the U.S. was already abandoning the idea of collective action. The leaked draft of the (Wolfowitz-Libby) 1992 Defense Guidance Report effectively confirmed this shift, as it called for a unilateral role for the U.S. in world affairs, focusing on preserving American dominance.\n\nIn closing \"A World Transformed\", Scowcroft sums up what his expectations were for the new world order. He states that the U.S. has the strength and the resources to pursue its own interests, but has a disproportionate responsibility to use its power in pursuit of the common good, as well as an obligation to lead and to be involved. The U.S. is perceived as uncomfortable in exercising its power, and ought to work to create predictability and stability in international relations. America need not be embroiled in every conflict, but ought to aid in developing multilateral responses to them. The U.S. can unilaterally broker disputes, but ought to act whenever possible in concert with equally committed partners to deter major aggression.\n\nHenry Kissinger stated in 1994, \"The New World Order cannot happen without U.S. participation, as we are the most significant single component. Yes, there will be a New World Order, and it will force the United States to change its perceptions.\" Then on January 5, 2009, when asked on television by CNBC anchors about what he suggests Barack Obama focus on during the current Israeli crises he replied that it is a time to reevaluate American foreign policy and that \"he can give new impetus to American foreign policy ... I think that his task will be to develop an overall strategy for America in this period, when really a 'new world order' can be created. It's a great opportunity. It isn't such a crisis.\"\n\nFormer British United Kingdom Prime Minister and current British Middle East envoy Tony Blair stated on November 13, 2000 in his Mansion House speech that \"There is a new world order like it or not\". He used the term in 2001, November 12, 2001 and 2002. On January 7, 2003 he stated that \"... the call was for a new world order. But a new order presumes a new consensus. It presumes a shared agenda and a global partnership to do it.\"\n\nFormer United Kingdom Prime Minister Gordon Brown (then Chancellor of the Exchequer), on December 17, 2001, stated that \"This is not the first time the world has faced this question – so fundamental and far-reaching. In the 1940s, after the greatest of wars, visionaries in America and elsewhere looked ahead to a new world and – in their day and for their times – built a new world order.\"\n\nBrown also called for a \"new world order\" in a 2008 speech in New Delhi, to reflect the rise of Asia and growing concerns over global warming and finance. Brown said the new world order should incorporate a better representation of \"the biggest shift in the balance of economic power in the world in two centuries.\" He then went on, \"To succeed now, the post-war rules of the game and the post-war international institutions – fit for the Cold War and a world of just 50 states – must be radically reformed to fit our world of globalisation.\" He also called for the revamping of post-war global institutions including the World Bank, G8 and International Monetary Fund. Other elements of Brown's formulation include spending £100 million a year on setting up a rapid reaction force to intervene in failed states.\n\nHe also used the term on January 14, 2007, March 12, 2007, May 15, 2007, June 20, 2007, April 15, 2008, and on April 18, 2008. Brown also used the term in his speech at the G20 Summit in London on April 2, 2009.\n\nIranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has called for a new world order based on new ideas, saying the era of tyranny has come to a dead-end. In an exclusive interview with Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB), Ahmadinejad noted that it is time to propose new ideologies for running the world. Iran's stated goal is to establish a new world order based on world peace, global collective security, reciprocity and justice.\n\nGeorgian President, Mikheil Saakashvili, said, \"it's time to move from words to action because this is not going to go away. This nation is fighting for its survival, but we are also fighting for world peace and we are also fighting for a Future World Order.\"\n\nTurkish President, Abdullah Gül, said, \"I don't think you can control all the world from one centre, There are big nations. There are huge populations. There is unbelievable economic development in some parts of the world. So what we have to do is, instead of unilateral actions, act all together, make common decisions and have consultations with the world. A new world order, if I can say it, should emerge.\" \n\nOn the \"Colbert Report\", guest John King (of CNN) mentioned Obama's \"New World Order\" after Stephen Colbert joked about the media's role in getting Obama elected.\n\nSome scholars of international relations have advanced the thesis that the declining global influence of the United States and the rise of largely illiberal powers such as China threaten the established norms and beliefs of the liberal, rule-based world order. They describe three pillars of the prevailing order that are upheld and promoted by the West: peaceful international relations (the Westphalian norm), democratic ideals, and free-market capitalism. Stewart Patrick suggests that emerging powers, China included, \"often oppose the political and economic ground rules of the inherited Western liberal order\" and Elizabeth Economy argues that China is becoming a \"revolutionary power\" that is seeking \"to remake global\nnorms and institutions.\" In contrast, Amitai Etzioni contends that such a world order was never fully consolidated, and that \"the whole thesis that the U.S. is the champion and protector of a liberal rule-based global order and faces illiberal nations that do not buy into and need to be encouraged to accept prevailing norms, is a complex combination of\nbeliefs many in the West truly hold. It is part of an ideological challenge to the legitimacy of the policies and regimes of other nations, mixed with a measure of self-congratulatory exceptionalism.\"\n\nThe Russian political analyst Leonid Grinin believes that despite all the problems the USA will preserve the leading position within a new world order since no other country is able to concentrate so many leader's functions. Yet, he insists that the formation of a new world order will start from an epoch of new coalitions \n\n"}
{"id": "40681698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40681698", "title": "Nils Ivar Agøy", "text": "Nils Ivar Agøy\n\nNils Ivar Agøy (born 19 November 1959) is a Norwegian historian, theologian, tolkienologist and translator.\n\nHe hails from Gjøvik. He took the cand.philol. degree in history at the University of Oslo in 1987, with the master's thesis \"Kampen mot vernetvangen. Militærnekterspørsmålet i Norge 1885–1922\". The thesis chronicled and explained conscientious objection in Norway before 1922. His academic advisor was Jorunn Bjørgum.\n\nAlready in 1988 he graduated with the cand.theol. degree in theology at the MF Norwegian School of Theology. Subsequently, he was employed as a research fellow in history at the Peace Research Institute Oslo, finishing his dr.philos. degree in history in 1994. His thesis \"Militæretaten og \"den indre fiende\" fra 1905 til 1940. Hemmelige sikkerhetsstyrker i Norge sett i et skandinavisk perspektiv\" explored the military precautions against \"inner enemies\"—defined as revolutionary segments—between the 1905 Norwegian independence and the Second World War, against a Scandinavian backdrop. His doctoral advisor was Ottar Dahl.\n\nHe was appointed as associate professor of modern history at Telemark University College in 1994, and was promoted to professor in 2002. In 2010 he released \"Kirken og arbeiderbevegelsen\", the result of ten years of work. The book explores ties between the Church of Norway and other congregations, and the labour movement in Norway. He concluded that the relations between Christians and labour leaders were less marked by strife and more by cooperation that hitherto believed.\n\nAgøy is a co-founder of Norwegian Tolkien Society Arthedain.\n\nAgøy's translation debut was J. R. R. Tolkien's \"Silmarillion\". For this he was awarded the Bastian Prize, a translator's prize in Norway, in 1995. He has later been a jury member for the children's literature class of the Bastian Prize, which is awarded by the Norwegian Association of Literary Translators. In 1997 he released the second Norwegian translation of \"The Hobbit\", and he has also translated \"Unfinished Tales of Númenor and Middle-earth\".\n\nIn 2003 he released a book on J. R. R. Tolkien himself, titled \"Mytenes mann\" (\"Man of the Myths\"). The purpose was to write an introductory Tolkien book in Norwegian, and Agøy used original Tolkien documents archived in Oxford to construct a compounded biography and analysis of Tolkien's body of work. The book received a favourable review in \"VG\"; the reviewer gave a dice throw of 5 out of 6 and complimented Agøy for his \"deep insight in Tolkien's world of ideas and sources of inspiration\". \"Aftenposten\" praised it moderately as a \"readable entry portal to the world of Tolkien\".\n\nHe resides in Bø i Telemark, where Telemark University College is located, and is married to current secretary-general and former chair of the Church of Norway Council on Ecumenical and International Relations, Berit Hagen Agøy.\n"}
{"id": "56574766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56574766", "title": "Ortaköy, Uludere", "text": "Ortaköy, Uludere\n\nThe village used to be an ancient Assyrian tribe, part of Assyria, called \"Ārosh Taxtayta\" (Lower Arosh) within the historical Assyrian district of Tyari and was populated by Assyrian people up until Seyfo in 1914. The Assyrian village \"Ārosh Alayta\" (Upper Arosh), now named Yukariarus, in Hakkari, is less than away, closely bordering the province of Sirnak. Halmon is around to the northeast in Andaç and Gérāmon to the northwest, just right next to Halmon. Assyrian inhabitants of these proximate villages have ever since intermixed.\n\nRather close to the border of Northern Iraq and within the upper reaches of Mesopotamia, the village is situated in a precipitous highland on a valley and is surrounded by mountains. The area's vegetation is Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub. Summers are hot and dry with temperatures around 33 °C and winters are cold and wet, hovering around 4 °C. Snowfall is common in the cool months.\n\nThe economy of the village is based on livestock and beekeeping.\n\nThere is a primary school in the village. The village has drinking water network but there is no sewer network. There is no PTT branch and agency. There is no health clinic. There is electricity and fixed telephone ADSL internet infrastructure in the village.\n\n"}
{"id": "3737120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3737120", "title": "Protochronism", "text": "Protochronism\n\nProtochronism (anglicized from the , from the Ancient Greek terms for \"first in time\") is a Romanian term describing the tendency to ascribe, largely relying on questionable data and subjective interpretations, an idealized past to the country as a whole. While particularly prevalent during the regime of Nicolae Ceauşescu, its origin in Romanian scholarship dates back more than a century.\n\nThe term refers to perceived aggrandizing of Dacian and earlier roots of today's Romanians. This phenomenon is also pejoratively labelled \"Dacomania\" or sometimes \"Thracomania\", while its proponents prefer \"Dacology\".\n\nIn this context, the term makes reference to the trend (noticed in several versions of Romanian nationalism) to ascribe a unique quality to the Dacians and their civilization. Protochronists attempt to prove either that Dacians had a major part to play in Ancient history, or even that they had the ascendancy over all cultures (with a particular accent on Ancient Rome, which, in a complete reversal of the founding myth, would have been created by Dacian migrants). Also noted are the exploitation of the Tărtăria tablets as certain proof that writing originated on proto-Dacian territory, and the belief that the Dacian language survived all the way to the Middle Ages.\n\nAn additional—but not universal—feature is the attempted connection between the supposed monotheism of the Zalmoxis cult and Christianity, in the belief that Dacians easily adopted and subsequently influenced the religion. Also, Christianity is argued to have been preached to the Daco-Romans by Saint Andrew, who is considered, doubtfully, as the clear origin of modern-day Romanian Orthodoxy. Despite the lack of evidence to support this, it is the official church stance, being found in history textbooks used in Romanian Orthodox seminaries and theology institutes.\n\nThe ideas have been explained as part of an inferiority complex present in Romanian nationalism, one which also manifested itself in works not connected with Protochronism, mainly as a rejection of the ideas that Romanian territories only served as a colony of Rome, voided of initiative, and subject to an influx of Latins which would have completely wiped out a Dacian presence.\n\nProtochronism most likely came about with the views professed in the 1870s by Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu, one of the main points of the dispute between him and the conservative \"Junimea\". For example, Hasdeu's \"Etymologicum magnum Romaniae\" not only claimed that Dacians gave Rome many of her Emperors (an idea supported in recent times by Iosif Constantin Drăgan), but also that the ruling dynasties of early medieval Wallachia and Moldavia were descendants of a caste of Dacians established with \"King\" (chieftain) Burebista. Other advocates of the idea before World War I included the amateur archaeologist Cezar Bolliac, as well as Teohari Antonescu and Nicolae Densuşianu. The latter composed an intricate and unsupported theory on Dacia as the center of European prehistory, authoring a complete parallel to Romanian official history, which included among the Dacians such diverse figures as those of the Asen dynasty, and Horea. The main volume of his writings is \"Dacia Preistorică\" (\"Prehistoric Dacia\").\n\nAfter World War I and throughout Greater Romania's existence, the ideology increased its appeal. The Iron Guard flirted with the concept, making considerable parallels between its projects and interpretations of what would have been Zalmoxis' message. Mircea Eliade was notably preoccupied with Zalmoxis' cult, arguing in favor of its structural links with Christianity; his theory on Dacian history, viewing Romanization as a limited phenomenon, is celebrated by contemporary partisans of Protochronism.\n\nIn a neutral context, the Romanian archaeology school led by Vasile Pârvan investigated scores of previously ignored Dacian sites, which indirectly contributed to the idea's appeal at the time.\n\nIn 1974 Edgar Papu published in the mainstream cultural monthly \"Secolul XX\" an essay titled \"The Romanian Protochronism\", arguing for Romanian chronological priority for some European achievements. The idea was promptly adopted by the nationalist Ceauşescu regime, which subsequently encouraged and amplified a cultural and historical discourse claiming the prevalence of autochthony over any foreign influence. Ceauşescu's ideologues developed a singular concept after the 1974 11th Congress of the Communist Party of Romania, when they attached Protochronism to official Marxism, arguing that the Dacians had produced a permanent and \"unorganized State\". The Dacians had been favored by several communist generations as autochthonous insurgents against an \"Imperialist\" Rome (with the Stalinist leadership of the 1950s proclaiming them to be closely linked with the Slavic peoples); however, Ceauşescu's was an interpretation with a distinct motivation, making a connection with the opinions of previous protochronists.\n\nThe regime started a partnership with Italian resident, former Iron Guardist and millionaire Iosif Constantin Drăgan, who continued championing the Dacian cause even after the fall of Ceauşescu. Critics regard these excesses as the expression of an economic nationalist course, amalgamating provincial frustrations and persistent nationalist rhetoric, as autarky and cultural isolation of the late Ceauşescu's regime came along with an increase in protochronistic messages.\n\nNo longer backed by a totalitarian state structure after the 1989 Revolution, the interpretation still enjoys popularity in several circles. The main representative of current Protochronism is still Drăgan, but he is seconded by the New York City-based physician Napoleon Săvescu. Together, they issue the magazine \"Noi, Dacii\" (\"We Dacians\") and organize a yearly \"International Congress of Dacology\".\n\nDacian alphabet is a term used in Romanian Protochronism for pseudohistorical claims of a supposed alphabet of the Dacians prior to the conquest of Dacia and its absorption into the Roman Empire.\nIts existence was first proposed in the late 19th century by Romanian nationalists, but has been completely rejected by mainstream modern scholarship.\n\nIn the opinion of Sorin Olteanu, a modern expert at the Vasile Pârvan Institute of Archaeology, Bucharest, \"[Dacian script] is pure fabrication [...] purely and simply Dacian writing does not exist\", adding that many scholars believe that the use of writing may have been subject to a religious taboo among the Dacians. It is known that the ancient Dacians used the Greek and Latin alphabets, though possibly not as early as in neighbouring Thrace where the Ezerovo ring in Greek script has been dated to the 5th century BC. A vase fragment from the La Tène period (Fig., right), a probable illiterate imitation of Greek letters, indicates visual knowledge of the Greek alphabet during the La Tène period prior to the Roman invasion. Some Romanian writers writing at the end of the 19th century and later identified as protochronists, particularly the Romanian poet and journalist Cezar Bolliac, an enthusiast amateur archeologist, claimed to have discovered a Dacian alphabet. They were immediately criticized for archeological and linguistic reasons. Alexandru Odobescu, criticized some of Bolliac's conclusions. In 1871 Odobescu, along with Henric Trenk, inventoried the Fundul Peşterii cave, one of the Ialomiţei caves (See the ) near Buzău. Odobescu was the first to be fascinated by its writings, which were later dated to the 3rd or 4th century. In 2002, the controversial Romanian historian, Viorica Enăchiuc, stated that the Codex Rohonczi is written in a Dacian alphabet.\nThe equally controversial linguist Aurora Petan (2005) claims that some Sinaia lead plates could contain unique Dacian scripts.\n\nThe main critic of \"protochronism\" in Romania, Lucian Boia (lector of History University at Bucharest), was heavily criticized by two PhD historians, both members of Romanian Academy, Ion Aurel Pop, rector at Babes-Boliay University from Cluj-Napoca and professor Ioan Scurtu.\nWhat Pop says about Boia is that Boia is a specialist in 20th century historiography (i.e. protochronism), but Boia isn't a specialist in ancient or medieval history. So Pop does not disagree with the negative arguments mounted by Boia (i.e. dispelling the myths of National-Communist historiography), but says that Boia is unable to provide positive knowledge about the ancient and medieval history of Romania. E.g. Boia's 2015 book about Mihai Eminescu is a book about the myths about Eminescu (i.e. imagology), it isn't a book about Eminescu's life (i.e. the facts about him).\n\nLucian Boia was accused as well that during Communist period he followed strictly the history line imposed by the Party as he was the head of communist propaganda department from Bucharest University.\n\nHe started to become a critic just after 1989, when he became related with \"Soros Foundation\" which published his books at their publishing house in Budapest, Hungary. He was supported later on political basis, and he was advanced directly lector, jumping over pre-lector position as it was normal, and received grants for studies abroad (both before 1989, when agreement and preparation from former political secret police, Securitate, was needed for such, and after).\n\nRomanian nationalists compared him with Mihai Roller, the chief historian imposed by Soviets during 50's, famous for his attempts to rewrite national history and who was promptly eliminated from mainstream history circles even since the 60's. Boia was criticized as well because he is just a \"historian of ideas\" (i.e. how others write history) and not a specialist in historical domains he is talking about (like ancient history, medieval history, ethnology, archeology or linguistics), so his opinion in those subjects doesn't hold the necessary weight.\n\nDuring the 1940s, protochronism in the Soviet Union claimed that Russians had been the first to invent the lightbulb and telephone. Imitating Stalinist trends in the Communist Bloc, Albania developed its own version of protochronist ideology which stressed the continuity of Albanians from ancient peoples such as the Illyrians. Macedonians from the Republic of Macedonia have also engaged in protochronism claiming a Slavic-Thracian ethnogenesis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44508447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44508447", "title": "Raanan Rein", "text": "Raanan Rein\n\nRaanan Rein (17 June 1960) is the Elías Sourasky Professor of Latin American and Spanish History and Vice President of Tel Aviv University. Since 2005 Rein is the Head of the S. Daniel Abraham Center for International and Regional Studies. He is a member of Argentina's National Academy of History, and former President of the Latin American Jewish Studies Association (LAJSA). The Argentine government awarded him the title of Commander in the Order of the Liberator San Martín for his contribution to Argentine culture. The Spanish King awarded him the title of Commander in the Order of the Civil Merit. His current research deals with Jewish Argentines and Peronism, sports and politics in Argentina, Jewish Self-Defense organizations, and Jewish volunteers in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nRein was born in Givataim (Israel) where he grew up and attended \"Shimom Ben Tzvi\" High School. He is married to Dr. Mónica Esti Rein and father of two children. During the 1980s he held several positions in the Israeli press and media, among them: Foreign News Editor of the I.D.F. Radio Station, Commentator on foreign affairs in \"Al Hamishmar\", Member of the founding group of \"Hadashot\" daily newspaper and its first Foreign News Editor. During this period he published hundreds of articles and reportages in a number of Israeli newspapers and magazines.\n\nWhile working as a journalist, Rein completed his academic studies at Tel Aviv University. He graduated from Tel Aviv University in 1986 with a B.A degree in Political Science and History. His doctoral dissertation, supervised by Profs. Shlomo Ben-Ami and Tzvi Medin, dealt with the Franco-Perón Alliance and Spanish-Argentine relations after World War II. In 1992, after receiving a Ph.D in history, he joined the Department of History as Lecturer and in 2001 he was promoted to the rank of Full Professor in this Department. Several years later he became the Elías Sourasky Professor of Latin American and Spanish History.\n\nIn addition to his extensive academic work, Rein has also held administrative positions at the university. He was a Member of the Board of Directors of Tel Aviv University; served as the Director of the Sverdlin Institute for Latin American History and Culture; Chairperson of the Faculty of Humanities Teaching Committee (2003 to 2005); Founding director of the S. Daniel Abraham Center for International and Regional Studies beginning in 2004; and Vice Rector of the University (2005-2009). He was also a Member of the International Committee, appointed by the Spanish Ministry of Education, Culture, and Sport, to evaluate centers of excellence in Spanish Universities. Since 2012 Rein is the Vice president of Tel-Aviv University.\n\nRein is also the co-editor of the \"journal Estudios Interdisciplinarios de América Latina y el Caribe\", editor of the book series in \"Spanish Nuevas miradas a la Argentina del siglo XX\" published by Lumière in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and editor of Brill's book series Jewish Latin America: Issues and Methods. Rein is on the editorial board of seven academic journals and was the guest editor of several special issues in various journals, \"including History & Memory\", \"Z'manin\", \"Mediterranean Historical Review, and Jewish History\". Rein was a visiting professor at the University of Maryland, College Park, Emory University, Atlanta, and UADE in Buenos Aires.\n\nRein, over the years, has won numerous awards. He was the first Israeli to be elected to the National Academy of History of Argentina. In May 2009 Rein was awarded the title of Commander in the Order of the Liberator San Martín by the Argentine Government for his contribution to Argentine culture. In 2012, he won the Bi-Annual Award of the Center of the Iberian and Latin American Communities in Israel (CICLA) for contributing to a better understanding of Latin America in Israel. In the following year he was awarded the Latin American Jewish Studies Association (LAJSA) Book Prize for the co-edited volume (with Adriana Brodsky), T\"he New Jewish Argentina: Facets of Jewish Experiences in the Southern Cone\". In 2014, he won the “\"Dorothy and Elmer Kirsch Distinguished Conference Scholar\"” from Hofstra University. In 2016, he won the \"Reimar Lüst Award\" (co-sponsored by the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation and the Fritz Thyssen Foundation); Awarded the title of Comendador in Spain's \"Order of Civil Merit\", granted by King Felipe VI; Awarded the title \"Huesped de Honor Extraordinario\" by the President of the Universidad Nacional de La Plata, Argentina; Awarded the Seal of the Bicentenary by the Ente del Bicentenario, Tucumán. In March 2017, the City of Buenos Aires declared him as a \"Guest of Honor\". In May 2017 The Argentine University of San Martin (UNSAM) conferred upon him an Honorary Doctorate.\n\nAmong his research interests are Modern Latin America, populist movements, Argentine society and politics, Jews in the Spanish speaking world, ethnic minorities in Latin America, immigration and collective identities, 20th century Spain. His current research deals with Jewish Argentines and Peronism, sports and politics in Argentina, Jewish Self-Defense organizations, and Jewish volunteers in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nAmong his prominent research:\n\nRein is the author and editor of more than thirty books and well over a hundred articles in academic journals and book chapters, in several languages.\n\nAmong his publications:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32097459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32097459", "title": "Robert Barclay (historiographer)", "text": "Robert Barclay (historiographer)\n\nRobert Barclay (4 August 1833– 11 Nov. 1876) was an English Quaker historiographer.\n\nBarclay was born 4 August 1833 at Croydon. He was the younger son of John Barclay. After passing through a preparatory school at Epping, he went to the Friends' school at Hitchin, conducted by Isaac Brown, afterwards head of the Flounders Institute, Ackworth. His education was finished at Bruce Grove House, Tottenham. He attained a good knowledge of botany and chemistry, was fond of electrical experiments, and had skill as a watercolour artist.\n\nHe married on 14 July 1857 Sarah Matilda, eldest daughter of Francis Fry, and had nine children, of whom six survived him. He died of a brain aneurysm on 11 November 1876.\n\nIn 1855, he bought a London manufacturing stationery concern in Bucklersbury, (afterwards in College Street and Maiden Lane), taking into partnership his brother-in-law, J. D. Fry, in 1867. In March 1860 he patented an ‘indelible writing paper’ for the prevention of forgery, the process of manufacturing which he described in a communication to the Society of Arts.\n\nThough not ‘recorded’ as a minister of the Society of Friends (to which body he belonged), he preached in their meetings and missions. A posthumous volume gives thirty-six of his sermons, which were usually written, an uncommon thing with Friends.\n\nIn 1868 he delivered a lecture on the position of the Society of Friends in relation to the spread of the gospel during the last sixty years. He endorsed the view of Herbert Skeats that the early Society of Friends was the first home mission association, and was anxious to see the body regaining its position as an aggressive Christian church. He was strongly in favour of the public reading of the Bible in Friends' meetings, and thought Richard Claridge's ‘Treatise of the Holy Scriptures,’ 1724, presented a more correct view of the sentiments of the early Friends than their controversial writings. He was as strongly opposed to the practice of birthright membership, introduced among Friends in 1737.\n\nHis opinions on these points led to his undertaking a series of investigations which culminated in his work on the internal constitution of the obscurer Commonwealth sects, whose origin, ramifications, and practical tendencies. His presentation of the doctrinal aspects of primitive Quakerism was criticised from the standpoint of another Friend, in an ‘Examen’ (1878), by Charles Evans, M.D., of Philadelphia.\n\n"}
{"id": "24434911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24434911", "title": "Royllo", "text": "Royllo\n\nRoyllo (also Roillo), is a legendary phantom island that was once thought to be located in the Atlantic Ocean. Probably identical with the island originally called Ymana in a 1424 nautical chart of Zuane Pizzigano. The island is usually depicted in many 15th-century maps as a small island located slightly to the west (20 leagues or so) of the much larger Antillia island. It is often found in the group \"insulae de novo repertae\", or \"newly discovered islands\" along with other legendary islands.\n"}
{"id": "6190388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6190388", "title": "Standish James O'Grady", "text": "Standish James O'Grady\n\nStandish James O'Grady (; 18 September 1846 – 18 May 1928) was an Irish author, journalist, and historian. O'Grady was inspired by Sylvester O'Halloran and played a formative role in the Celtic Revival, publishing the tales of Irish mythology, as the \"History of Ireland: Heroic Period\" (1878), arguing that the Gaelic tradition had rival only from the tales of Homeric Greece. O'Grady was a paradox for his times, proud of his Gaelic heritage, he was also a member of the Church of Ireland, a champion of aristocratic virtues (particularly decrying bourgeois values and the uprooting cosmopolitanism of modernity) and at one point advocated a revitalised Irish people taking over the British Empire and renaming it the Anglo-Irish Empire.\n\nO'Grady's influence crossed the divide of the Anglo-Irish and Irish-Ireland traditions in literature. His influence was explicitly stated by the Abbey Theatre set with Lady Gregory, W. B. Yeats and George William Russell attributing their interest in the Fenian Cycle of Gaelic tradition in part to him. Some of the figures associated with the political party Sinn Féin, including its founder Arthur Griffith, had positive things to say about his efforts in helping to retrieve from the past the Gaelic heroic outlook.\n\nHis father was the Reverend Thomas O'Grady, the scholarly Church of Ireland minister of Castletown Berehaven, County Cork, and his mother Susanna Doe (or Dowe). Standish O'Grady's childhood home – the Glebe – lies a mile west of Castletownbere near a famine mass grave and ruined Roman Catholic chapel. He was a cousin of Standish Hayes O'Grady, another noted figure in Celtic literature, and of Standish O'Grady, 1st Viscount Guillamore. \n\nHe married Margaret Allen Fisher, daughter of William Allen Fisher and had three sons. Advised to move away from Ireland for the sake of his health, he passed his later years living with his eldest son, a clergyman in England, and died on the Isle of Wight.\n\nHis eldest son, Hugh Art O'Grady, was for a time editor of the Cork Free Press before he enlisted in the Great War early in 1915. He became better known as Dr Hugh O'Grady, later Professor of the Transvaal University College, Pretoria (later the University of Pretoria), who wrote the biography of his father in 1929.\n\nAfter a rather severe education at Tipperary Grammar School, Standish James O'Grady followed his father to Trinity College, Dublin, where he won several prize medals and distinguished himself in several sports.\n\nHe proved too unconventional of mind to settle into a career in the church, and qualified as a barrister, though earning much of his living by writing for the Irish newspapers. Reading Sylvester O'Halloran's \"General history of Ireland\" sparked an interest in early Irish history. After an initial lukewarm response to his writing on the legendary past in \"History of Ireland: Heroic Period\" (1878–81) and \"Early Bardic Literature of Ireland\" (1879), he realised that the public wanted romance, and so followed the example of James Macpherson in recasting Irish legends in literary form, producing historical novels including \"Finn and his Companions\" (1891), \"The Coming of Cuculain\" (1894), \"The Chain of Gold\" (1895), \"Ulrick the Ready\" (1896) and \"The Flight of the Eagle\" (1897), and \"The Departure of Dermot\" (1913). \n\nHe also studied Irish history of the Elizabethan period, presenting in his edition of Sir Thomas Stafford's \"Pacata Hibernia\" (1896) the view that the Irish people had made the Tudors into kings of Ireland to overthrow their unpopular landlords, the Irish chieftains. His \"The Story of Ireland\" (1894) was not well received, as it shed too positive a light on the rule of Oliver Cromwell for the taste of many Irish readers. He was also active in social and political campaigns in connection with such issues as unemployment and taxation.\n\nUntil 1898, he worked as a journalist for the \"Daily Express\" of Dublin, but in that year, finding Dublin journalism in decline, he moved to Kilkenny to become editor of the \"Kilkenny Moderator\", which was printed at number 28 High Street. It was here he became involved with Ellen Cuffe, Countess of Desart and Captain Otway Cuffe. He engaged in the revival of the local woollen and woodworking industries. In 1900 he founded the \"All-Ireland Review\", and returned to Dublin to manage it until it ceased publication in 1908. O'Grady contributed to James Larkins' \"The Irish Worker\" paper.\n\nO'Grady's works were an influence on WB Yeats and George Russell and this led to him being known as the \"Father of the Celtic Revival\". Being as much proud of his family's Unionism and Protestantism as of his Gaelic Irish ancestry – identities that were increasingly seen as antithetical in the late 1800s – he was described by Augusta, Lady Gregory as a \"fenian unionist\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27499031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27499031", "title": "Stuart period", "text": "Stuart period\n\nThe Stuart period of British history lasted from 1603 to 1714 during the dynasty of the House of Stuart. The period ended with the death of Queen Anne and the accession of King George I from the German House of Hanover.\n\nThe period was plagued by internal and religious strife, and a large-scale civil war which resulted in the execution of King Charles I in 1649. The Interregnum, largely under the control of Oliver Cromwell, is included here for continuity, even though the Stuarts were in exile. The Cromwell regime collapsed and Charles II had very wide support for his taking of the throne in 1660. His brother James II was overthrown in 1689 in the Glorious Revolution. He was replaced by his Protestant daughter Mary II and her Dutch husband William III. Mary's sister Anne was the last of the line. For the next half century James II and his son James Francis Edward Stuart and grandson Charles Edward Stuart claimed that they were the true Stuart kings, but they were in exile and attempts to return with French aid were defeated.\n\nEngland was ruled at the national level by royalty and nobility, and at the local level by the lesser nobility and the gentry. Together they comprised about 2% of the families, owned most of the good farmland, and controlled local government affairs. The aristocracy was growing steadily in numbers, wealth, and power. From 1540 to 1640, the number of peers (dukes, earls, marquises, viscounts, and barons) grew from 60 families to 160. They inherited their titles through primogeniture, had a favoured position in legal matters, enjoyed the highest positions in society, and held seats in the House of Lords. In 1611, the king looking for new revenue sources created the hereditary rank of baronet, with a status below that of the nobility, and no seat in Lords, and a price tag of about £1100. The vast land holdings seized from the monasteries under Henry VIII of England in the 1530s were sold mostly to local gentry, greatly expanding the wealth of that class of gentlemen. The gentry tripled to 15,000 from 5000 in the century after 1540. Many families died out, and others moved up, so that three-fourths of the peers in 1714 had been created by Stuart kings since 1603. Historians engaged in a lively debate—dubbed the \"Storm over the gentry\"—about the theory that the rising gentry class increasingly took power away from the static nobility, and generally reject it. Both the gentry and the nobility were gaining power, and the English Civil War was not a battle between them. In terms of religious affiliation in England, the Catholics were down to about 3% of the population, but comprised about 12% of the gentry and nobility.\n\nJames VI, king of Scotland, also became king of the entirely separate kingdom of England when Elizabeth I of England died. He also became king of Ireland, but the English were just reestablishing lost control there. The English re-conquest was completed after victory in the Nine Years' War, 1594–1603. James' appointees in Dublin as Lord Deputy of Ireland established real control over Ireland for the first time, bringing a centralised government to the entire island, and successfully disarmed the native lordships. The great majority of the Irish population remained Catholic, but James promoted heavy Protestant migration from Scotland into the Ulster region. The new arrivals were known as Scots-Irish or Scotch-Irish. In turn many of them migrated to the new American colonies during the Stuart period.\n\nKing James was failing in physical and mental strength, because of this he was often mocked by his family and his own father would throw objects at him when he would try to stand up, and decision-making was increasingly in the hands of Charles and especially George Villiers (1592–1628), (he was Earl of Buckingham from 1617 and Duke from 1623). Buckingham showed a very high degree of energy and application, as well as a huge appetite for rewards and riches. By 1624 he was effectively the ruler of England. In 1625 Charles became the king of a land deeply involved in a European war and rent by escalating religious controversies. Buckingham and Charles developed a foreign policy based on an alliance with France against Spain. Major foreign adventures against Cádiz in 1625 and in support of French Huguenots in 1627 were total disasters. Widespread rumour shaped public opinion that blamed Buckingham, rather than the king, for the ills that beset England. When Parliament twice opened impeachment proceedings, the king simply prorogued (suspended) the Parliament. Buckingham was assassinated in 1628 by John Felton, a dissatisfied Army officer. The assassin was executed, but he nevertheless became a heroic martyr across the three kingdoms. Like his father, King Charles believed in the divine right of kings to rule, and one was unable to work successfully with Parliament. By 1628 he and Buckingham had transformed the political landscape. In 1629 the king dissolved parliament and began a period of eleven years of personal rule.\n\nEnglish government was quite small, for the king had no standing army, and no bureaucracy stationed around the country. Laws were enforced primarily by local officials controlled by the local elites. Military operations were typically handled by hired mercenaries. The greatest challenge King Charles faced in ruling without a parliament was raising money. The crown was in debt nearly £1.2 million; financiers in the City refused new loans. Charles saved money by signing peace treaties with France in 1629 and Spain in 1630, and avoiding involvement in the Thirty Years' War. He cut the usual budget but it was not nearly enough. Then he discovered a series of ingenious methods to raise money without permission of Parliament. They had been rarely used, but were nevertheless legal. He sold monopolies, despite their unpopularity. He fined the landowners for supposedly encroaching on the royal forests. Compulsory knighthood had been established in the Middle Ages when men of certain wealth were ordered to become knights in the king's service, or else pay a fine. When knighthood lost its military status, the payments continued, but they had been abandoned by 1560. James reinstated the fine, and hired new officials to search local records to find wealthy men who did not have knighthood status. They were forced to pay, including Oliver Cromwell among thousands of other country gentlemen across rural England. £173,000 was raised, in addition to raising bitter anger among the gentry. The king finally crossed the line of legality when he began to levy \"ship money\", intended for naval defences, upon interior towns. Protests now escalated to include urban elites. All the new measures generated long-term outrage, but they did balance the short-term budget, which averaged £600,000, without the need to call Parliament into session.\n\nRevolts broke out in Scotland in response to the king's imposition of the Book of Common Prayer, which threatened to undermine the religion of the people. The Scots drove English forces out and forced the king to subsidise the insurgents who were now occupying part of northern England. A major revolt among Catholics in Ireland killed thousands of Scots Irish—there was no doubt it had to be suppressed and new taxes would be needed to pay the costs of military action. A new Parliament had to be called. The Long Parliament elected in 1640 proved just as difficult for Charles as had the Short Parliament. It assembled on 3 November 1640 and quickly began proceedings to impeach and remove the king's leading counsellors for high treason. Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford was taken into custody on 10 November; William Laud, the Archbishop of Canterbury was impeached on 18 December; John Finch, 1st Baron Finch, now Lord Keeper of the Great Seal, was impeached the following day, and he fled to Holland. To prevent the king from dissolving it at will, Parliament passed the Triennial Act, which required Parliament to be summoned at least once every three years, and permitted the Lord Keeper and 12 peers to summon Parliament if the king failed to do so. The Act was coupled with a subsidy bill, and so to secure the latter, Charles grudgingly granted royal assent in February 1641.\n\nThe First English Civil War of 1642–1645 ended in victory for the Parliamentarians over the Royalists (often called \"Cavaliers\"). The Parliamentarians were often called \"Roundheads\" because of their short practical haircuts. The Second English Civil War was fought in 1648–1649; Charles lost and was executed in January 1649.\n\nThe monarchy was temporarily displaced by the Commonwealth of England from 1649 to 1660. Oliver Cromwell ruled directly from 1653 to his death in 1658, whereupon his Commonwealth disintegrated. The Convention Parliament welcomed Charles II, son of Charles I, to return from exile and become king.\n\nThe war period (1642–1651) saw a series of armed conflicts and political machinations between Parliamentarians and Royalists, with most of the fighting in England. The first (1642–1646) and second (1648–1649) wars pitted the supporters of King Charles I against the supporters of the Long Parliament, while the third (1649–1651) saw fighting between supporters of King Charles II and supporters of the Rump Parliament. The war ended with the Parliamentarian victory at the Battle of Worcester on 3 September 1651. Historians debate whether the main determinant of the outcome was based on superior operational decisions and decisive battlefield events (as argued by Malcolm Wanklyn), or rather Parliament's long-run superiority in manpower and money (as argued by Clive Holmes).\n\nThe overall outcome was threefold: the trial and execution of Charles I (1649); the exile of his son, Charles II (1651); and the replacement of English monarchy with, at first, the Commonwealth of England (1649–1653) and then the Protectorate under the personal rule of Oliver Cromwell (1653–1658). When Cromwell died his son Richard Cromwell was incapable of governing, and the Puritan army directly ruled the three kingdoms, to the growing disgust of all classes of people. The monopoly of the Church of England on religion was strengthened by the suppression of the last remnants of Catholicism, and the powerful forces of Puritanism and Nonconformism. Constitutionally, the wars convinced everyone that an English monarch cannot govern alone, nor could Parliament. They were both essential.\n\nIn 1649–59 the dominant figure in England—although he refused the offer of kingship—was Oliver Cromwell, the highly successful Parliamentarian general. He worked hard at the time to ensure good publicity for his reign, and his successful wars. He remains a favourite topic of historians even as he is one of the most controversial figures in British history and his intense religiosity has long been out of fashion.\n\nAfter the execution of the King, a republic was declared, known as the Commonwealth of England. A Council of State was appointed to manage affairs, which included Cromwell among its members. His real power base was in the army; Cromwell tried but failed to unite the original group of 'Royal Independents' centred around St John and Saye and Sele, but only St John was persuaded to retain his seat in Parliament. From the middle of 1649 until 1651, Cromwell was away on campaign. In the meantime, with the king gone (and with him their common cause), the various factions in Parliament began to fight each other. On his return, Cromwell tried to galvanise the Rump into setting dates for new elections, uniting the three kingdoms under one polity, and to put in place a broad-brush, tolerant national church. However, the Rump vacillated in setting election dates, and although it put in place a basic liberty of conscience, it failed to produce an alternative for tithes or dismantle other aspects of the existing religious settlement. In frustration, Cromwell eventually dismissed the Rump Parliament in 1653. He summoned a new Parliament, whose members were all nominated. Sometimes known as the Parliament of Saints, it was also called the Barebones Parliament. The Parliament was based on an idea of Major-General Thomas Harrison's for a \"sanhedrin\" of saints. Although Cromwell did not subscribe to Harrison's apocalyptic, Fifth Monarchist beliefs – which saw a sanhedrin as the precondition of Christ's rule on earth – he was attracted by the idea of an assembly made up of a cross-section of sects. However, its failure to deal with the complex political, legal and religious problems facing England soon led to its closeure.\n\nIn December 1653 Cromwell was appointed Lord Protector, with powers akin to those of a monarch. Cromwell's power was buttressed by his continuing popularity among the army, which he had built up during the civil wars, and which he subsequently prudently guarded, and during his period of dictatorship he divided England into military districts ruled by Army Major Generals who answered only to him. The 15 major generals and deputy major generals—called \"godly governors\"—were central to Cromwell's moral crusade beginning in October 1655. They lasted less than a year. The generals not only supervised militia forces and security commissions, but collected taxes and insured support for the government in the English and Welsh provinces. They were resented by provincials. Many members of Parliament feared the generals threatened their reform efforts and authority. Their position was further harmed by a tax proposal by Major General John Desborough to provide financial backing for their work, which Parliament voted down for fear of a permanent military state. Ultimately, however, Cromwell's failure to support his men, sacrificing them to his opponents, caused their demise.\n\nThe First Anglo-Dutch War broke out in 1652, against the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands, eventually won by the Royal Navy under Admiral Robert Blake in 1654.\n\nCromwell was aware of the contribution that Jewish financiers made to the economic success of Holland, now England's leading commercial rival. It was this that led to his encouraging Jews to return to England, 350 years after their banishment, in the hope that they would help speed up the recovery of the country after the disruption of the Civil Wars.\n\nIn 1657, Cromwell was offered the crown by a re-constituted Parliament; since he had been instrumental in abolishing the monarchy he said no after long deliberation. He ruled as king in all but name, but his office was not hereditary. Instead Cromwell was to nominate his own successor. Cromwell's new rights and powers were laid out in the Humble Petition and Advice, a legislative instrument which replaced the 1653 Instrument of Government.\n\nThe older historiography came in two flavours: The Whig history interpretation and the Marxist historiography interpretation. The Whig model, dominant in the 19th century, saw an inherent conflict between irresistible, truly English ideals of liberty and individualism represented by The Puritans and Roundheads, overcoming the medieval concept of the king as the unquestionable voice of God. Historians became increasingly uncomfortable with the writing of history as a predetermined search for an idealistic goal, and the Whig approach lost favour after the First World War (1914–1918). Meanwhile, in the late 19th century, the remarkably high quality scholarship of archivally oriented historians, especially Samuel Rawson Gardiner and Charles Harding Firth had provided the rich details on national politics, practically on a day-by-day basis. Scholars, however, generally neglected the local dimension.\n\nIn the post-war era (1945–), the class conflict of the Marxist interpretation emerged as a powerful explanation that seemed to tie all the details together. It portrayed a battle between the declining Crown and upper class feudalistic aristocracy, versus the rising middle class gentry. Marxists downplayed the religious dimension. On one side, influential names included R. H. Tawney, Lawrence Stone, and the Marxist Christopher Hill. The main argument was that the Civil War was a challenge launched by the rising gentry class to overcome the power of the Crown and the aristocracy. Marxists like Hill saw the war as England's bourgeois revolution—that is, the overthrow of an outdated feudal order by the new middle class. The class conflict interpretation was vigorously challenged by conservative scholars, such as Hugh Trevor-Roper, who argued that the gentry was not rising but instead felt that its status was being undermined. It fought back against its exclusion from the power, patronage and payoff by an extravagant court, by the king's swelling state bureaucracy and by the nouveau riche financiers in London.\n\nMarxist historiography itself lost much of its intellectual support after the 1960s. \"Revisionists\" came to the fore, rejecting both Whig and Marxist approaches because they assumed historical events were the automatic playing out of mysterious forces such as \"liberty\"and \"class conflict.\" New microscopic local studies demonstrated that the class differences between the two sides varied greatly from place to place, and did not explain very much. Once The revisionists had dispatched the older models, the \"post-revisionists\" began to offer a multiplicity of small-scale explanations that fitted particular localities. Historians now give much more emphasis to religiosity, and to the diversity of local situations. Instead of an argument that massive popular anger had built up in the early 17th century and caused the Civil War, the current approaches depict the early Stuart period as marked by harmony, good government, and popular support. How then could there be a civil war? The current scholarly solution is to emphasise what historians call the \"British problem\", involving the impossible tensions occurring when a single person tried to hold together his three kingdoms with their entirely different geographical, ethnic, political, and religious values and traditions.\n\nWidespread dissatisfaction with the lack of the king led to the Restoration in 1660, which was based on strong support for inviting Charles II to take the throne. The restoration settlement of 1660 reestablished the monarchy, and incorporated the lessons learned in the previous half century. The first basic lesson was that the king and the parliament were both needed, for troubles cumulated when the king attempted to rule alone (1629–1640), when Parliament ruled without a king (1642–1653) or when there was a military dictator (1653–1660). The Tory perspective involved a greater respect for the king, and for the Church of England. The Whig perspective involved a greater respect for Parliament. The two perspectives eventually coalesced into opposing political factions throughout the 18th century. The second lesson was that the highly moralistic Puritans were too inclined to divisiveness and political extremes. The Puritans and indeed all Protestants who did not closely adhere to the Church of England, were put under political and social penalties that lasted until the early 19th century. Even more severe restrictions were imposed on Catholics and Unitarians. The third lesson was that England needed protection against organised political violence. Politicized mobs in London, or popular revolts in the rural areas, were too unpredictable and too dangerous to be tolerated. The king's solution was a standing army, a professional force controlled by the king. This solution became highly controversial.\n\nThe Restoration of 1660 was a deliberate return to the stability of the early 17th century. There was very little recrimination. King Charles acted with moderation and self-restraint, and with energy and attention to details. The king reached out to everyone, finding high positions for his old friends and allies as well as places for his former enemies. By far the most important role went to Edward Hyde, who was made Earl of Clarendon and Lord Chancellor in 1660. He was largely in control of royal affairs, especially after his daughter Anne Hyde married the king's brother James (he became king in 1685). When the Second Anglo-Dutch War ended in failure in 1667, the king removed Clarendon in a severe confrontation; the earl was accused of treason and was banished to France. Charles was willing to talk to every faction in England, Ireland and Scotland, even with the Quakers, who were hated by practically everyone else. Charles gave out high offices in England with an eye toward favouring his longtime allies, and making sure his erstwhile enemies received at least some symbolic positions. In Scotland he included all of the important factions from the 1640s. In Ireland he retained the men currently in power.\n\nThe King and Parliament agreed on a general pardon, the Indemnity and Oblivion Act (1660). It covered everyone, with the exception of three dozen regicides who were tracked down for punishment. The terms of the settlement included giving the King a fixed annual payment of £1.2 million; Scotland and Ireland added small additional amounts. It was illegal to use dubious non-parliamentary fund-raising such as payments for knighthood, forced loans, and especially the much-hated ship money. Parliament did impose an entirely new excise tax on alcoholic beverages that raise substantial sums, as did the customs, for foreign trade was flourishing. Parliament closed down the harsh special courts that Charles had used before 1642, such as the Star Chamber, Court of High Commission, and the Council of the North. Parliament watched Charles' ministers closely for any signs of defiance, and was ready to use the impeachment procedure to remove offenders and even to pass bills of attainder to execute them without a trial.\n\nReligious issues proved the most difficult to resolve. Charles reinstated the bishops, but also tried to reach out to the Presbyterians. Catholics were entirely shut out of opportunities to practice their religion or connect to the Papal States in Rome. The Royalists won a sweeping election victory in 1661; only 60 Presbyterians survived in Parliament. Severe restrictions were now imposed on the Nonconformist Protestant bodies in England, preventing them from holding scheduled church services, and prohibiting their members from holding government offices at the national or local level. For example, The five-mile law in 1665 made it a crime for nonconformist clergymen to be within 5 miles of their old parish. The Puritans still controlled the Massachusetts Bay Colony and the Connecticut Colony, but they kept a low profile during the interregnum. Charles II cancelled their charters and imposed centralised rule through the Dominion of New England. His colonial policies were reversed by William III. Most of the smaller independent religious factions faded away, except for the Quakers. The Congregationalists, Presbyterians, and Baptists remain, and were later joined by the Methodists. These non-Anglican Protestants continued as a political factor, with its leaders moving toward what became the Whig party. The country gentry continued to form the basis of support for the Church of England, and for what became the Tory party.\n\nParliament was especially alarmed at the success of Cromwell's New Model Army, which demonstrated that a well-organized, well-led professional army was far superior to poorly trained militia units. Cromwell had used his standing army to take full personal control, and so it was much to be feared as a threat to traditional liberties. The New Model Army was permanently disbanded, and all the soldiers received their full back pay. On the other hand, as long as enemy nations such as Spain and France, had large standing armies, England was practically defenceless on land. King and Parliament all agreed on the wisdom of a strong expanded Royal Navy. But while the king tried to build up a small standing army, Parliament kept a very close, nervous watch.\n\nPuritanism was entirely out of fashion, as the royal court introduced a level of hedonism that far exceeded anything England had ever seen. Harris says, \"At the center of this world was a libertine court – a society of Restoration rakes given more to drinking, gambling, swearing and whoring than to godliness – presided over by the King himself and his equally rakish brother James, Duke of York.\" \n\nEngland never had a standing army with professional officers and careerist corporals and sergeants. It relied on militia organised by local officials, private forces mobilised by the nobility, or on hired mercenaries from Europe. Cromwell changed all that with his New Model Army of 50,000 men, that proved vastly more effective than untrained militia, and enabled him to exert a powerful control at the local level over all of England. At the restoration, Parliament paid off Cromwell's army and disbanded it. For many decades the Cromwellian model was a horror story and the Whig element recoiled from allowing a standing army. The militia acts of 1661 and 1662 prevented local authorities from calling up militia and oppressing their own local opponents. Calling up the militia was possible only if the king and local elites agreed to do so. However, King Charles managed to pull together four regiments of infantry and cavalry, calling them his guards, at a cost of £122.000 from his general budget. This became the foundation of the permanent British Army, By 1685 it had grown to 7500 soldiers in marching regiments, and 1400 men permanently stationed in garrisons. A rebellion in 1685 allowed James II to raise the forces to 20,000 men. There were 37,000 in 1678, when England played a role in the closing stage of the Franco-Dutch War. In 1689, William III expanded the army to 74,000 soldiers, and then to 94,000 in 1694. Parliament became very nervous, and reduced the cadre to 7,000 in 1697. Scotland and Ireland had theoretically separate military establishments, but they were unofficially merged with the English force.\n\nThe British have always regarded the overthrow of King James II of England in 1688 as a decisive break in history, especially as it made the Parliament of England supreme over the King and guaranteed a bill of legal rights to everyone. Steven Pincus argues that this revolution was the first modern revolution; it was violent, popular, and divisive. He rejects older theories to the effect that it was an aristocratic coup or a Dutch invasion. Instead, Pincus argues it was a widely supported and decisive rejection of James II. The people could not tolerate James any longer. He was too close to the French throne; he was too Roman Catholic; and they distrusted his absolutist modernisation of the state. What they got instead was the vision of William of Orange, shared by most leading Englishmen, that emphasised consent of all the elites, religious toleration of all Protestant sects, free debate in Parliament and aggressive promotion of commerce. Pincus sees a dramatic transformation that reshaped religion, political economy, foreign policy and even the nature of the English state.\n\nDuring the joint rule of William and Mary, William made the decisions when he was in Britain; Mary was in charge when he was out of the country and also handled Church affairs. William encouraged the passage of major laws that protected personal liberties. of the Toleration Act 1689, which guaranteed religious toleration to Protestant nonconformists. It did not, however, extend toleration as far as he wished, still restricting the religious liberty of Roman Catholics, non-trinitarians, and those of non-Christian faiths. In December 1689, one of the fundamental constitutional documents in English history, the Bill of Rights, was passed. The Act restated and confirmed many provisions of the earlier Declaration of Right, and established restrictions on the royal prerogative. It provided that the Sovereign could not suspend laws passed by Parliament, levy taxes without parliamentary consent, infringe the right to petition, raise a standing army during peacetime without parliamentary consent, deny the right to bear arms to Protestant subjects, unduly interfere with parliamentary elections, punish members of either House of Parliament for anything said during debates, require excessive bail or inflict cruel and unusual punishments. William was opposed to the imposition of such constraints, but he chose not to engage in a conflict with Parliament and agreed to abide by the statute.\n\nThe primary reason the English elite called on William to invade England in 1688 was to overthrow the king James II, and stop his efforts to reestablish Catholicism and tolerate Puritanism. However the primary reason William accepted the challenge was to gain a powerful ally in his war to contain the threatened expansion of King Louis XIV of France. William's goal was to build coalitions against the powerful French monarchy, protect the autonomy of the Netherlands (where William continued in power) and to keep the Spanish Netherlands (present-date Belgium) out of French hands. The English elite was intensely anti-French, and generally supported William's broad goals. For his entire career in Netherlands and Britain, William was the arch-enemy of Louis XIV. The French king, and the, denounced William as a usurper who had illegally taken the throne from the legitimate king James II and ought to be overthrown. In May 1689, William, now king of England, with the support of Parliament, declared war on France. England and France would be at war almost continuously until 1713, with a short interlude 1697–1701 made possible by the Treaty of Ryswick. The combined English and Dutch fleets could overpower France in a far-flung naval war, but France still had superiority on land. William wanted to neutralise that advantage by allying with Leopold I, the Habsburg Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire (1658–1705), who was based in Vienna, Austria. Leopold, however, was tied down in war with the Ottoman Empire on his eastern frontiers; William worked to achieve a negotiated settlement between the Ottomans and the Empire. William displayed in imaginative Europe-wide strategy, but Louis always managed to come up with a counter play. William was usually supported by the English leadership, which saw France as its greatest enemy. But eventually the expenses, and war weariness, but the second thoughts. At first, Parliament voted him the funds for his expensive wars, and for his subsidies to smaller allies. Private investors created the Bank of England in 1694; it provided a sound system that made financing wars much easier by encouraging bankers to loan money. In the long-running Nine Years' War (1688–97) his main strategy was to form a military alliance of England, the Netherlands, the Holy Roman Empire, Spain, and some smaller states, to attack France at sea, and from land in different directions, while defending the Netherlands. Louis XIV tried to undermine this strategy by refusing to recognise William as king of England, and by giving diplomatic, military and financial support to a series of pretenders to the English throne, all based in France.Williams focused most of his attention on foreign policy and foreign wars, spending a great deal of time in the Netherlands (where he continued to hold the dominant political office). His closest foreign-policy advisers were Dutch, most notably William Bentinck, 1st Earl of Portland; they shared little information with their English counterparts. The net result was that the Netherlands remained independent, and France never took control of the Spanish Netherlands. The wars were very expensive to both sides but inconclusive. William died just as the continuation war, the War of the Spanish Succession, (1702–1714), was beginning. It was fought out by Queen Anne, and ended in a draw.\n\nHistorian Stephen B. Baxter is a leading specialist on William III, and like nearly all his biographers he has a highly favourable opinion of the king:\n\nAnne became queen in 1702 at age 37, succeeding William III whom she hated. For practically her entire reign, the central issue was the War of the Spanish Succession in which Britain played a major role in the European-wide alliance against Louis XIV of France. Down until 1710, the Parliament was dominated by the \"Whig Junto\" coalition. She disliked them and relied instead on her old friends Duke of Marlborough (and his wife Sarah Churchill), and chief minister Lord Godolphin (1702–1710). She made Marlborough captain-general and head of the army; his brilliant victories boded well for Britain at first. But the war dragged on into an expensive stalemate. The opposition Tories had opposed the war all along, and now won a major electoral victory in 1710. Anne reacted by dismissing Marlborough and Godolphin and turning to Robert Harley. She had 12 miscarriages and 6 babies, but only one survived and he died at age 11, so her death ended the Stuart period. Anne's intimate friendship with Sarah Churchill turned sour in 1707 as the result of political differences. The Duchess took revenge in an unflattering description of the Queen in her memoirs as ignorant and easily led, which was a theme widely accepted by historians until Anne was re-assessed in the late 20th-century.\n\nAnne took a lively interest in affairs of state, and was a noted patroness of theatre, poetry and music. She subsidised George Frideric Handel with £200 a year. She began the practice of awarding high-quality gold medals as rewards for outstanding political or military achievements. They were produced at the Mint by Isaac Newton and engraver John Croker.\n\nScotland and England were entirely separate countries, having the same ruler since 1603. Queen Anne, ruling both countries, worked to bring them together in the Acts of Union 1707. Public opinion in Scotland was generally hostile, but elite opinion was supportive, especially after the English provided generous financial terms and timely bribes. The Parliament of Scotland agreed to the terms and disbanded. The new Parliament of Great Britain was in practice simply the old Parliament of England augmented by 45 Scots elected to Commons; it selected 16 Scottish peers for the House of Lords. Scotland was much smaller in terms of population and wealth. Its colonial venture in the Darien scheme had been a major financial and humanitarian disaster. The Acts of Union refunded the losses of the Scottish investors in Darien. In basic terms, Scotland retained its own Presbyterian established church, and its own legal and educational systems, as well it's its own separate nobility. The Scots now paid English taxes, although in reduced rates, and had a voice in the affairs of Great Britain.\n\nThe long-term economic benefits took a couple of generations to be realised, and long-standing distrust continued for generations. The risk of war between the two was greatly diminished, although Jacobite raids launched from the north hit England for another forty years. The new Britain used its power to undermine the clanship system in the Scottish Highlands Ambitious Scots now had major career opportunities in the fast-growing overseas British colonies, and in the rapidly growing industrial and financial communities of England. Scotland benefited, says historian G.N. Clark, gaining \"freedom of trade with England and the colonies\" as well as \"a great expansion of markets.\" Clark argued that in exchange for the financial benefits and bribes that England bestowed, what it gained was:\n\nBy the time Samuel Johnson and James Boswell made their tour in 1773, recorded in \"A Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland\", Johnson noted that Scotland was \"a nation of which the commerce is hourly extending, and the wealth increasing\" and in particular that Glasgow had become one of the greatest cities of Britain.\n\nThe total population of England grew steadily in the 17th century, from 1600 to about 1660, then declined slightly and stagnated between 1649 and 1714. The population was about 4.2 million in 1603, 5.2 million in 1649, 5.1 million in 1660, 4.9 million in 1688, and 5.3 million in 1714. By 1714 the Greater London area held about 674,000 people, or one in nine of England's population. The next cities in size were Norwich and Bristol (with a population of about 30,000 each). About 90% of the people lived in rural areas in 1500, compared to 80% of a much larger population in 1750.\n\nHistorians have recently placed stress on how people at the time dealt with the supernatural, not just in formal religious practice and theology, but in everyday life through magic and witchcraft. The persecution of witches began in England in 1563, and hundreds were executed. England was spared the frenzy on Continental Europe; with over 5% of Europe's population in 1600, England executed only 1% of the 40,000 witches killed in the period 1400–1800.\n\nThe government made witchcraft a capital crime under Queen Elizabeth I of England in 1563. King James VI and I made the suppression of witchcraft a high priority in both Scotland, and (in 1604) in England. Judges across England sharply increased their investigation of accused 'witches', thus generating a body of highly detailed local documentation that has provided the main basis for recent historical research on the topic. Historians Keith Thomas and his student Alan Macfarlane study witchcraft by combining historical research with concepts drawn from anthropology. They argued that English witchcraft was endemic year in and year out, rather than happening in epidemic outbursts. Older women were the favourite targets because they were marginal, dependent members of the community and therefore more likely to arouse feelings of both hostility and guilt, and less likely to have defenders of importance inside the community. Witchcraft accusations were the village's reaction to the breakdown of its internal community, coupled with the emergence of a newer set of values that was generating psychic stress.\n\nHistorian Peter Homer has emphasised the political basis of the witchcraft issue in the 17th century, with the Puritans taking the lead in rooting out the Devil's work in their attempt to depaganise England and build a godly community. As the process of psychological modernisation reached more and more people, fears of witchcraft and magic tended to steadily diminish. After 1660 Puritans were largely excluded from the judiciary and lost their power to investigate. In 1712, Jane Wenham was the last woman found guilty of witchcraft in England. In 1735 Parliament no longer believed that witchcraft was real—despite the efforts of James Erskine, Lord Grange, the Scottish Lord who made a fool of himself speaking in opposition. Parliament passed the Witchcraft Act 1735 which made it a crime to accuse someone of witchcraft. The laws against witchcraft were not fully repealed until 1951 with the passing of the Fraudulent Mediums Act 1951. Witchcraft was a minor issue of little importance in Ireland. However, Scotland was a major centre of suppression; 3900 Scots were tried; two thirds were convicted and executed, the last of whom was Janet Horne in 1727.\n\nThere was no free schooling for ordinary children, but in the towns and cities small local private schools were opened for the benefit of the boys of the middle classes, and a few were opened for girls. The rich and the nobility relied on private tutors. Private schools were starting to open for young men of the upper classes, and universities operated in Scotland and England. The University of Oxford and the University of Cambridge provided some education for prospective Anglican ministers, but otherwise had academic standards well below their counterparts in Scotland.\n\nHistorians have looked at local documents to see how many men and women used their signature and how many used X's. Literacy rates were very low before 1500, but grew steadily in the next three centuries, with men twice as likely to be literate as comparable women. In 1500, literacy rates for women were 1%; by 1560 they had reached 5%; by 1640 about 10%; by 1710 about 25% (versus 50% for men). Two forces were at work: Protestant religion called for the ability to read the Bible, and changing social and economic conditions. For example, towns grew rapidly, providing jobs in retailing in which literacy was a distinct advantage.\n\nWhen the Puritans fell out of power, Britain began to enjoy itself again. The theatres returned, and played a major role in high society in London, where they were patronised by royalty. Historian George Clark argues:\n\nThe first coffee houses appeared in the mid-1650s and quickly became established in every city in many small towns. They exemplified the emerging standards of middle-class masculine civility and politeness. Downtown London boasted about 600 by 1708. Admission was a penny for as long as a customer wanted. The customers could buy coffee, and perhaps tea and chocolate, as well as sandwiches and knickknacks. Recent newspapers and magazines could be perused by middle-class men with leisure time on their hands. Widows were often the proprietors. The coffeehouses were quiet escapes, suitable for conversation, and free of noise, disorder, shouting and fighting in drinking places. The working class could more usually be found drinking in pubs, or playing dice in the alleyways.\n\nMany businessmen conducted their affairs there, and some even kept scheduled hours. Historian Mark Pendergast observes:\n\nLloyd's Coffee House opened in 1686 and specialised in providing shipping news for a clientele of merchants, insurers, and shipowners. In a few years it moved to a private business office that eventually became the famous insurance exchange Lloyd's of London. By the 1790s private clubs had become more popular and the penny coffee houses largely closed down.\n\nIn science, the Royal Society was formed in 1660; it sponsored and legitimised a renaissance of major discoveries, led most notably by Isaac Newton, Robert Boyle and Robert Hooke.\n\nOut in the countryside, numerous architects built country houses – the more magnificent the better, for the nobility and the wealthier gentry. Inigo Jones is the most famous. In London, Jones built the magnificent Banqueting House, Whitehall in 1622. Numerous architects worked on the decorative arts, designing intricate wainscoted rooms, dramatic staircases, lush carpets, furniture, and clocks that are still be seen in country houses open to tourism.\n\nThe Great Fire of London in 1666 created the urgent necessity to rebuild many important buildings and stately houses. Sir Christopher Wren was in charge of the rebuilding damaged churches. More than 50 City churches are attributable to Wren. His greatest achievement was St Paul's Cathedral.\n\nHistorians have always emphasised the localism in rural England, with readers gaining the impression that the little villages were self-contained communities. However, Charles Phythian-Adams has used local evidence to paint a much more complex picture. Data from the location of brides and grooms, the sources of financial credit, and patterns of migration indicate that each village was embedded in a network of villages and transportation routes. People could relocate from one village to another inside these networks without feeling like they were strangers. The network would include for example one or more market towns, county centres, or small cities. Roads existed and were supplemented by turnpikes. However the chief means of transportation was typically by water, since it was much cheaper to move wagon loads of commodities, especially wool and cloth, by boat than over land. Much effort was made to improve the river system, by removing obstacles. A mania to build canals, 1790–1840, enlarged the range and lowered costs. After 1840, the coming of railroads enlarged the range of local networks so much that the localism was overwhelmed\n\nThe 18th century was prosperous as entrepreneurs extended the range of their business around the globe. By the 1720s Britain was one of the most prosperous countries in the world, and Daniel Defoe boasted: \n\nAs an island there was little incentive for gaining new territory. In the Tudor and Stuart periods the main foreign policy goal (besides protecting the homeland from invasion) was the building a worldwide trading network for its merchants, manufacturers, shippers and financiers. This required a hegemonic Royal Navy so powerful that no rival could sweep its ships from the world's trading routes, or invade the British Isles. Wool was the great commercial product. Home production of wool supplied internal needs, while raw wool and wool cloth made up 75–90% of exports. Trade was extensive with France, the Low Countries, and the Baltic. The Hanseatic League of German trading cities had once controlled 40% of the English trade, but it rapidly lost that role after 1500 and was expelled from England in 1598. The English colonies in the West Indies provided sugar, most of which was re-exported to the Continent. The 13 American colonies provided land for migrants, masts for the navy, food for the West Indies slaves, and tobacco for the home and the re-export trades. The British gained dominance in the trade with India, and largely dominated the highly lucrative slave, sugar, and commercial trades originating in West Africa and the West Indies. Exports were stable at £2.5 million from 1613 to 1669, then soared £6.5 million in 1700, to £14.7 million in 1760 and £43.2 million in 1800.\n\nThe government supported the private sector by incorporating numerous privately financed London-based companies for establishing trading posts and opening import-export businesses across the world. Each was given a monopoly of trade to the specified geographical region. The first enterprise was the Muscovy Company set up in 1555 to trade with Russia. Other prominent enterprises included he East India Company (1599), and the Hudson's Bay Company (1670) in Canada. The Company of Royal Adventurers Trading to Africa had been set up in 1662 to trade in gold, ivory and slaves in Africa; it was reestablished as the Royal African Company in 1672 and focused on the slave trade. Other powers set up similar monopolies on a much smaller scale; only the Netherlands emphasised trade as much as England.\n\nWoolen cloth was the chief export and most important employer after agriculture. The golden era of the Wiltshire woolen industry was in the reign of Henry VIII. In the medieval period, raw wool had been exported, but now England had an industry, based on its 11 million sheep. London and towns purchased wool from dealers, and send it to rural households where family labour turned it into cloth. They washed the wool, carded it and spun it into thread, which was then turned into cloth on a loom. Export merchants, known as Merchant Adventurers, exported woolens into the Netherlands and Germany, as well as other lands. The arrival of Huguenots from France brought in new skills that expanded the industry.\n\nGovernment intervention proved a disaster in the early 17th century. A new company convinced Parliament to transfer to them the monopoly held by the old, well-established Company of Merchant Adventurers. Arguing that the export of unfinished cloth was much less profitable than the export of the finished product, the new company got Parliament to ban the export of unfinished cloth. There was massive dislocation marketplace, as large unsold quantities built up, prices fell, and unemployment rose. Worst of all, the Dutch retaliated and refused to import any finished cloth from England. Exports fell by a third. Quickly the ban was lifted, and the Merchant Adventurers got its monopoly back. However, the trade losses became permanent.\n\nStuart England was primarily consumed with internal affairs. King James I (reigned 1603–25) was sincerely devoted to peace, not just for his three kingdoms of England, Scotland and Ireland, but for Europe as a whole. He disliked Puritans and Jesuits alike, because of their eagerness for warfare. He called himself \"Rex Pacificus\" (\"King of peace.\") At the time, Europe was deeply polarised, and on the verge of the massive Thirty Years' War (1618–1648), with the smaller established Protestant states facing the aggression of the larger Catholic empires. On assuming the throne, James made peace with Catholic Spain, and made it his policy to marry his son to the Spanish Infanta (princess) Maria Anna in the \"Spanish Match\". The marriage of James' daughter Princess Elizabeth to Frederick V, Elector Palatine on 14 February 1613 was more than the social event of the era; the couple's union had important political and military implications. Across Europe, the German princes were banding together in the Protestant Union, headquartered in Heidelberg, the capital of the Electoral Palatinate. King James calculated that his daughter's marriage would give him diplomatic leverage among the Protestants. He thus planned to have a foot in both camps and be able to broker peaceful settlements. In his naïveté, he did not realise that both sides were playing him as a tool for their own goal of achieving the destruction of the other side. Spain's ambassador Diego Sarmiento de Acuña, 1st Count of Gondomar knew how to manipulate the king. The Catholics in Spain, as well as the Emperor Ferdinand II, the Vienna-based leader of the Habsburgs and head of the Holy Roman Empire, were both heavily influenced by the Catholic Counter-Reformation. They had the goal of expelling Protestantism from their domains.\n\nLord Buckingham in the 1620s wanted an alliance with Spain. Buckingham took Charles with him to Spain to woo the Infanta in 1623. However, Spain's terms were that James must drop Britain's anti-Catholic intolerance or there would be no marriage. Buckingham and Charles were humiliated and Buckingham became the leader of the widespread British demand for a war against Spain. Meanwhile, the Protestant princes looked to Britain, since it was the strongest of all the Protestant countries, to provide them with military support for their cause. James' son-in-law and daughter became king and queen of Bohemia, an event which outraged Vienna. The Thirty Years' War began, as the Habsburg Emperor ousted the new king and queen of the Kingdom of Bohemia, and massacred their followers. The Catholic Duchy of Bavaria then invaded the Electoral Palatinate, and James's son-in-law begged for James's military intervention. James finally realised that his policies had backfired and refused these pleas. He successfully kept Britain out of the European-wide war that proved so heavily devastating for three decades. James's backup plan was to marry his son Charles to a French Catholic princess, who would bring a handsome dowry. Parliament and the British people were strongly opposed to any Catholic marriage, were demanding immediate war with Spain, and strongly favoured the Protestant cause in Europe. James had alienated both elite and popular opinion in Britain, and Parliament was cutting back its financing. Historians credit James for pulling back from a major war at the last minute, and keeping Britain in peace.\n\nFrederick's election as King of Bohemia in 1619 deepened the Thirty Years' War—a conflagration that destroyed millions of lives in central Europe, but only barely touched Britain. The intense hatred and rivalry of Catholic versus Protestant princes was the main cause. King James' determination to avoid involvement in the continental conflict, even during the \"war fever\" of 1623, was one of the most significant, and most positive, aspects of his reign.\n\nDuring 1600–1650 the kings made repeated efforts to colonise Guiana in South America. They all failed and the lands (Suriname) were ceded to the Dutch Republic in 1667.\n\nThe Anglo-Dutch Wars were a series of three wars which took place between the English and the Dutch from 1652 to 1674. The causes included political disputes and increasing competition from merchant shipping. Religion was not a factor, since both sides were Protestant. The British in the First Anglo-Dutch War (1652–54) had the naval advantage with larger numbers of more powerful \"ships of the line\" which were well suited to the naval tactics of the era. The British also captured numerous Dutch merchant ships. In the Second Anglo-Dutch War (1665–67) Dutch naval victories followed. This second war cost London ten times more than it had planned on, and the king sued for peace in 1667 with the Treaty of Breda. It ended the fights over \"mercantilism\" (that is, the use of force to protect and expand national trade, industry, and shipping.) Meanwhile, the French were building up fleets that threatened both the Netherlands and Great Britain. In the Third Anglo-Dutch War (1672–74), the British counted on a new alliance with France but the outnumbered Dutch outsailed both of them, and King Charles II ran short of money and political support. The Dutch gained domination of sea trading routes until 1713. The British gained the thriving colony of New Netherland, which was renamed as the Province of New York.\n\nThe Stuart period began in 1603 with the death of Queen Elizabeth I and the accession of King James I. There was a break in the middle but the Stuarts were restored to the throne in 1660. It ended in 1714 (after 111 years) with the death of Queen Anne and the accession of King George I, the first king of the House of Hanover. The yellow bars show Stuart rule.\n\nThe House of Stuart produced six monarchs who ruled during this period.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33615875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33615875", "title": "Suwannee point", "text": "Suwannee point\n\nThe Suwannee point is a large unfluted lanceolate Paleo-Indians projectile point that features a recurvate profile with a slightly narrowed waist and a convex base. The point is one of the earliest forms of lanceolate types and is dated between 10500–9500 Before Present. It represents a typical example of the Middle Paleoindian subperiod. Experts are divided over whether the type predates or postdates the Clovis point but have noted that the two share similarities in their construction. Suwanee specimens are generally unfluted, which distinguishes them from the generally fluted Clovis. However, a few rare examples of fluted Suwanee have also been discovered. The largest concentration of Suwanee points appear in Florida, where the classification was first named in 1968 by Ripley P. Bullen for Suwannee County.\n"}
{"id": "2923830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2923830", "title": "Timothy W. Ryback", "text": "Timothy W. Ryback\n\nTimothy W. Ryback is an historian and director of the Institute for Historical Justice and Reconciliation] in The Hague. He previously served as the Deputy-Secretary General of the Académie Diplomatique Internationale in Paris, and Director and Vice President of the Salzburg Global Seminar. Prior to this, he was a lecturer in the Concentration of History and Literature at Harvard University.\n\nRyback has written on European history, politics and culture for numerous publications, including \"The Atlantic Monthly\", \"The New Yorker\", \"The New York Times\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\". His book, \"Hitler's First Victims: The Quest for Justice\" published in 2014 was described by the Wall Street Journal as \"chilling...harrowing...fascinating.\" He is also author of \"Hitler's Private Library: The Books That Shaped His Life\", published in 2008, which has appeared in more than 25 editions around the world. His book, \"The Last Survivor: Legacies of Dachau\" was a New York Times Notable Book for 2000. Ryback is also author of \"Rock Around the Bloc: A History of Rock Music in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union\", published in 1989. He has appeared in numerous television documentaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58674836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58674836", "title": "Walter F. Pratt", "text": "Walter F. Pratt\n\nWalter Floyd (\"Jack\") Pratt Jr. (born 1946) is the Educational Foundation Distinguished Professor at the University of South Carolina School of Law, where he served as dean from 2006 to 2011. Pratt's research focus is legal history, contracts and commercial law. \nPratt was born and raised in Jackson, Mississippi. He studied at Vanderbilt University, and graduated with a B.A. in History \"magna cum laude\" in 1968. After serving three years as an officer in the United States Army, he was a Rhodes Scholar and in 1974 he obtained a D.Phil. in Politics from Balliol College, Oxford University. In 1977, received a J.D. from Yale Law School, where he served as an editor of the \"Yale Law Journal\". \n\nAfter graduation, he was law clerk for Judge Charles Clark of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit and then for Chief Justice Warren E. Burger of the Supreme Court of the United States during the 1978–1979 Term. \n\nIn 1979, he joined the faculty as an assistant professor of Duke University Law School and in 1982 was promoted to an associate professor. In the 1984-1985 academic year he was a visiting professor at the J. Reuben Clark Law School. In 1986, he moved to the faculty of the University of Notre Dame Law School, and in 1998 was named a full professor. There, he played several executive roles including Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and later Executive Associate Dean. \n\nOn July 1, 2006, Pratt was named dean and Educational Foundation Distinguished Professor of the University of South Carolina School of Law. In 2011, he announced he would not seek an extension of his five year term. After stepping down as dean, he has continued to teach at the Law School.\n\nHe is married to Dorothy Overstreet Pratt, a history professor and author, whom he met as an undergraduate at Vanderbilt, and they have one son.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43412", "title": "Winchester", "text": "Winchester\n\nWinchester is a city and the county town of Hampshire, England. The city lies at the heart of the wider City of Winchester, a local government district, and is located at the western end of the South Downs National Park, along the course of the River Itchen. It is situated south-west of London and from Southampton, its closest city. At the time of the 2011 Census, Winchester had a population of 45,184. The wider City of Winchester district which includes towns such as Alresford and Bishop's Waltham has a population of 116,800. \n\nWinchester developed from the Roman town of Venta Belgarum, which in turn developed from an Iron Age oppidum. Winchester's major landmark is Winchester Cathedral, one of the largest cathedrals in Europe, with the distinction of having the longest nave and overall length of all Gothic cathedrals in Europe. The city is home to the University of Winchester and Winchester College, the oldest public school in the United Kingdom still using its original buildings.\n\nThe area around Winchester has been inhabited since prehistoric times, with three Iron Age hillforts, Oram's Arbour, St. Catherine's Hill, and Worthy Down all in the nearby vicinity. In the Late Iron Age, a more urban settlement type developed, known as an oppidum, although the archaeology of this phase remains obscure. It was overrun by the confederation of Gaulish tribes known as the Belgae sometime during the first century BCE. It seems to have been known as Wentā or Venta, derived from the Brittonic for \"town\" or \"meeting place\", or the word for \"white\" (Welsh \"gwyn\"), due to Winchester's situation upon chalk.\n\nAfter the Roman conquest of Britain, the settlement served as the capital () of the Belgae and was distinguished as Venta Belgarum, \"Venta of the Belgae\". Although in the early years of the Roman province it was of subsidiary importance to Silchester and Chichester, Venta eclipsed them both by the latter half of the second century. At the beginning of the third century, Winchester was given protective stone walls. At around this time the city covered an area of , making it among the largest towns in Roman Britain by surface area. There was a limited suburban area outside the walls. Like many other Roman towns however, Winchester began to decline in the later fourth century.\nFollowing the Roman withdrawal from Britain in 410, urban life seems to have continued at Venta Belgarum until around 450 AD, and a small administrative centre might have continued after that on the site of the later Anglo-Saxon palace. Ford identifies the community as the (\"Fort Venta\") listed by Nennius among the 28 cities of Britain in his \"History of the Britons\". Amid the Saxon invasions of Britain, cemeteries dating to the 6th and 7th centuries suggest a revival of settlement.\nThe city became known as Wintan-ceastre (\"Fort Venta\") in Old English. In 648, King Cenwalh of Wessex erected the Church of SS Peter and Paul, later known as the Old Minster. This became a cathedral in the 660s when the West Saxon bishopric was transferred from Dorchester-on-Thames. The present form of the city dates to reconstruction in the late 9th century, when king Alfred the Great obliterated the Roman street plan in favour of a new grid in order to provide better defence against the Vikings. The city's first mint appears to date from this period.\n\nIn the early tenth century there were two new ecclesiastical establishments, the convent of Nunnaminster, founded by Alfred's widow Ealhswith, and the New Minster. Bishop Æthelwold of Winchester was a leading figure in the monastic reform movement of the later tenth century. He expelled the secular canons of both minsters and replaced them with monks. He created the drainage system, the 'Lockburn', which served as the town drain until 1875, and still survives. Also in the late tenth century, the Old Minster was enlarged as a centre of the cult of the ninth century Bishop of Winchester, Saint Swithun. The three minsters were the home of what architectural historian John Crook describes as \"the supreme artistic achievements\" of the \"Winchester School\".\n\nThe consensus among historians of Anglo-Saxon England is that the court was mobile in this period and there was no fixed capital. Martin Biddle has suggested that Winchester was a centre for royal administration in the seventh and eighth centuries, but this is questioned by Barbara Yorke, who sees it as significant that the shire was named after Hamtun, the forerunner of Southampton. However, Winchester is described by the historian Catherine Cubitt as \"the premier city of the West Saxon kingdom.\"\nThere was a fire in the city in 1141 during the Rout of Winchester. William of Wykeham played a role in the city's restoration. As Bishop of Winchester he was responsible for much of the current structure of the cathedral, and he founded the still extant public school Winchester College. During the Middle Ages, the city was an important centre of the wool trade, before going into a slow decline. The curfew bell in the bell tower (near the clock in the picture), still sounds at 8:00 pm each evening.\nWhile Jews lived in Winchester from at least 1148, in the 13th century the Jewish community in the city was one of the most important in England. There was an archa in the city, and the Jewish quarter was located in the city's heart (present day Jewry street). There were a series of blood libel claims levied against the Jewish community in the 1220s and 1230s, which likely was the cause of the hanging of the community's leader, Abraham Pinch, in front of the synagogue that he was head of. Simon de Montfort ransacked the Jewish quarter in 1264, and in 1290 all Jews were expelled from England.\n\nThe City Cross (also known as the Buttercross) has been dated to the 15th century, and features 12 statues of the Virgin Mary, saints and various historical figures. Several statues appear to have been added throughout the structure's history. In 1770, Thomas Dummer purchased the Buttercross from the Corporation of Winchester, intending to have it re-erected at Cranbury Park, near Otterbourne. When his workmen arrived to dismantle the cross, they were prevented from doing so by the people of the city, who \"organised a small riot\" and they were forced to abandon their task. The agreement with the city was cancelled and Dummer erected a lath and plaster facsimile, which stood in the park for about sixty years before it was destroyed by the weather. The Buttercross itself was restored by George Gilbert Scott in 1865, and still stands in the High Street. It is now a Scheduled Ancient Monument.\n\nThree notable bronze sculptures can be seen in or from the High Street by major sculptors of the 19th and 20th Centuries, the earliest a monumental statue of Queen Victoria, now in the Great Hall, by Sir Alfred Gilbert (also known as the sculptor of 'Eros' in London's Piccadilly Circus), King Alfred, facing the city with raised sword from the centre of The Broadway, by Hamo Thornycroft and the modern striking \"Horse and Rider\" by Dame Elizabeth Frink at the entrance to the Law Courts.\n\nThe novelist Jane Austen died in Winchester on 18 July 1817 and is buried in the cathedral. While staying in Winchester from mid-August to October 1819, the Romantic poet John Keats wrote \"Isabella\", \"St. Agnes' Eve\", \"To Autumn\", \"Lamia\" and parts of \"Hyperion\" and the five-act poetic tragedy \"Otho The Great\".\n\nIn 2013, businesses involved in the housing market were reported by a local paper as saying the city's architectural and historical interest, and its fast links to other towns and cities have led Winchester to become one of the most expensive and desirable areas of the country and ranked Winchester as one of the least deprived areas in England and Wales.\n\nWinchester is situated on a bed of cretaceous lower chalk with small areas of clayey and loamy soil, inset with combined clay and rich sources of fuller's earth.\n\nAs with the rest of the UK, Winchester experiences an oceanic climate (Köppen \"Cfb\"). The nearest Met Office station is in Martyr Worthy, just outside the city.\nAside from the city centre, there are several suburbs and neighbourhoods within the city, including:\n\nSince 1974 the city has been governed as part of the wider City of Winchester district of Hampshire. Of the district's 26 electoral wards, 7 cover the area of the city itself: Olivers Battery & Badger Farm, St John & All Saints, St Barnabas, St Michael, St Bartholomew, St Luke, and St Paul.\n\nWinchester local elections take place in three out of every four years, with one third of the councillors elected in each election. From the 2006 election until the 2010 election the council was led by Conservatives. In 2010 briefly by the Liberal Democrats again and since 2011 by the Conservatives.\n\nFrom 1835 to 1974, Winchester was governed as a municipal borough of Hampshire. Until 1902 the city's affairs were also administered partly by its parishes: St Lawrence, St Mary Kalendar, St Maurice, St Michael, St Peter Colebrook, St Swithin, St Thomas, St John, St Bartholomew Hyde, Milland, St Faith, and St Peter Cheesehill, and its extra-parochial areas: Cathedral Precincts, St Mary's College Precincts, St Cross Hospital Precinct, and Wolvesey. Historically, the south of the city had come under the \"Liberty of the Soke\", thereby self-governing to a large extent.\n\nWinchester is currently represented in the House of Commons through the Winchester Parliamentary Constituency by Steve Brine of the Conservatives who in the General Election of 2010 beat Martin Tod, the Liberal Democrat candidate, by 3048 votes (a margin of 5.4%). Mark Oaten had previously won the seat for the Liberal Democrats during the 1997 general election in which he defeated Gerry Malone, a Health Minister in John Major's Conservative Government who had held the seat since 1992.\n\nWinchester Cathedral was originally built in 1079 and remains the longest Gothic cathedral in Europe. It contains much fine architecture spanning the 11th to the 16th century and is the place of interment of numerous Bishops of Winchester (such as William of Wykeham), Anglo-Saxon monarchs (such as Egbert of Wessex) and later monarchs such as King Canute and William Rufus. It was once an important pilgrimage centre and housed the shrine of Saint Swithun. The ancient Pilgrims' Way travelling to Canterbury begins at Winchester. The plan of the earlier Old Minster is laid out in the grass adjoining the cathedral. The New Minster (the original burial place of Alfred the Great and Edward the Elder) once stood beside it. The cathedral has a girls choir and a boys choir, which sing on a regular basis at the cathedral.\n\nWinchester Cathedral Close contains a number of historic buildings from the time when the cathedral was also a priory. Of particular note is the \"Deanery\", which dates back to the thirteenth century. It was originally the Prior's House, and was the birthplace of Arthur, Prince of Wales, in 1486. Not far away is \"Cheyney Court\", a mid fifteenth-century timber-framed house incorporating the Porter's Lodge for the Priory Gate. It was the Bishop's court house.\n\nThe earliest hammer-beamed building still standing in England is situated in the Cathedral Close, next to the Dean's garden. It is known as the \"Pilgrims' Hall\", as it was part of the hostelry used to accommodate the many pilgrims to Saint Swithun's shrine. Left-overs from the lavish banquets of the Priors (the monastic predecessors of the later Deans) would be given to the pilgrims who were welcome to spend the night in the hall. It is thought by Winchester City Council to have been built in 1308. Now part of The Pilgrims' School, the hall is used by the school for assemblies in the morning, drama lessons, plays, orchestral practices, Cathedral Waynflete rehearsals, the school's Senior Commoners' Choir rehearsals and so forth.\n\nEntrance to the North garth of the cathedral, for pedestrians is via the Norman arches of Saint Maurice′s tower, in the High street.\n\nWolvesey Castle was the Norman bishop's palace, dating from 1110, but standing on the site of an earlier Saxon structure. It was enhanced by Henry de Blois during the Anarchy of his brother King Stephen's reign. He was besieged there for some days. In the 16th century, Queen Mary Tudor and King Philip II of Spain were guests just prior to their wedding in the Cathedral. The building is now a ruin (maintained by English Heritage), but the chapel was incorporated into the new palace built in the 1680s, only one wing of which survives.\n\nWinchester is well known for the Great Hall of its castle, which was built in the 12th century. The Great Hall was rebuilt sometime between 1222 and 1235, and still exists in this form. It is famous for \"King Arthur's Round Table\", which has hung in the hall from at least 1463. The table actually dates from the 13th century, and as such is not contemporary to Arthur. Despite this it is still of considerable historical interest and attracts many tourists. The table was originally unpainted, but was painted for King Henry VIII in 1522. The names of the legendary Knights of the Round Table are written around the edge of the table surmounted by King Arthur on his throne. Opposite the table are Prince Charles's 'Wedding Gates'. In the grounds of the Great Hall is a recreation of a medieval garden. Apart from the hall, only a few excavated remains of the stronghold survive among the modern Law Courts. The buildings were supplanted by the adjacent King's House, now incorporated into the Peninsula Barracks where there are five military museums. (The training that used to be carried out at the barracks is now done by the Army Training Regiment Winchester, otherwise known as Sir John Moore Barracks, outside the city).\n\nThe almshouses and vast Norman chapel of Hospital of St Cross were founded just outside the city centre by Henry de Blois in the 1130s. Since at least the 14th century, and still available today, a 'wayfarer's dole' of ale and bread has been handed out there. It was supposedly instigated to aid pilgrims on their way to Canterbury.\n\nThe City Museum, located on the corner of Great Minster Street and The Square, contains much information on the history of Winchester. Early examples of Winchester measures of standard capacity are on display. The museum was one of the first purpose-built museums to be constructed outside London. Local items featured include the Roman 'Venta' gallery, and some genuine period shop interiors taken from the nearby High Street. Other places of cultural interest include the Westgate Museum (which showcases various items of weaponry), and the Historic Resources Centre, which holds many records related to the history of the city. In 2014 ownership of the City museum was transferred to the Hampshire Cultural Trust as part of a larger transfer of museums from Hampshire County Council and Winchester City Council \n\nOther important historic buildings include the Guildhall dating from 1871 in the Gothic revival style, the Royal Hampshire County Hospital, designed by William Butterfield, and Winchester City Mill, one of the city's several water mills driven by the River Itchen that runs through the city centre. The mill has recently been restored, and is again milling corn by water power. It is owned by the National Trust.\n\nCastle Hill is the location of the Council Chamber for Hampshire County Council.\n\nBetween Jewry Street and St Peter's Street is St Peter's Catholic Church. It was built in 1924 and designed by Frederick Walters. Next to it is Milner Hall, built in the 1780s it was the first Catholic church to be consecrated since 1558.\nA series of 24 bollards on the corner of Great Minster Street and The Square were painted in the style of famous artists, or with topical scenes, by The Colour Factory between 2005-2012 at the behest of Winchester City Council.()\n\nWinchester has a variety of Church of England primary schools, including both state and private provision schools. St. Peters Catholic Primary School had the highest SATS results, after achieving a perfect score of 300 in 2011.\n\nThere are four state comprehensive secondary schools in Winchester; the Henry Beaufort School, Kings' School Winchester, and The Westgate School are all situated in the city. A fourth state school, the Osborne School, a community special school is also located in Winchester.\n\nIndependent junior/preparatory schools are The Pilgrims' School Winchester, the Prince's Mead School and Twyford School, which is just outside the city and claims to be the oldest preparatory school in the United Kingdom. There are two major independent senior schools in Winchester, St Swithun's (a day and boarding school for girls from nursery to sixth form) and Winchester College, a boys' public school.\n\nBoth schools often top the examination result tables for the city and county.\n\nOsborne School is a state-funded special school for pupils aged 11 to 19 which is located in Winchester. Shepherds Down Special School is a state funded special school for pupils aged 4 to 11, located just outside of the city in the boundaries of Compton.\n\nThe University of Winchester (formerly King Alfred's College) is a public university based in Winchester and the surrounding area. It is ranked 10th for teaching excellence in The Times and The Sunday Times 2016 Good University Guide, with a 92% rating, and fourth for student satisfaction in England in the National Student Survey 2015. The University origins go back as far as 1840—originally as a Diocesan teacher training centre. King Alfred's, the main campus, is located on a purpose built campus near the city centre. The newly completed West Downs is a short walk away, and houses student facilities and accommodation and the business school.\n\nThe Winchester School of Art was founded in the 1860s as an independent institution and is now a school of the University of Southampton.\n\nPeter Symonds College is a college that serves Winchester. It began as a Grammar School for boys in 1897, and became a co-educational sixth-form college in 1974.\n\nWinchester has Winchester City F.C. who currently play in the Southern League and Winchester Castle F.C., who have played in the Hampshire League since 1971. The local Saturday football league, the Winchester & District League, folded in 2010.\n\nWinchester City Flyers are a girls and ladies football club established in 1996 with nearly 200 members, playing from U9 to ladies football.\n\nThe St. Cross Symondians Cricket Club is one of the first cricket clubs in Hampshire, and, with 5 men's sides, 2 women's sides, a successful junior's side, and weekend sides, is one of the largest as well.\n\nWinchester has a rugby union team Winchester RFC and an athletics club Winchester and District AC. The city has a field hockey club, Winchester Hockey Club,\n\nLawn bowls is played at several clubs. The oldest bowling green belongs to Friary Bowling Club (first used in 1820), while the oldest bowls club is Hyde Abbey Bowling Club (established in 1812). Riverside Indoor Bowling Club remains open during the winter months.\n\nThere are three 18-hole golf courses. Royal Winchester Golf Club is on downland adjacent to the Clarendon Way with fine views over distant country. \"JH\" John Henry Taylor was the club professional when winning the Open Championship in 1894 and 1895, and there is a room with memorabilia named after him. Hockley Golf Club is dramatically positioned on St Catherine's Hill, also with extensive views. South Winchester Golf Club is another downland course, and a relative newcomer, designed by David Thomas and Peter Alliss. Visitors are welcome at all three clubs.\n\nWinchester College invented and gave its name to Winchester College Football, played exclusively at the College and in some small African/South American communities.\n\nWinchester is located near the M3 motorway and at the meeting of the A34, A31, A3090 and A272 roads. Once a major traffic bottleneck, the city still suffers from congestion at peak times. It is just to the south of the A303 and A30.\n\nA Roman road originating in Salisbury called The Clarendon Way ends in Winchester. The Clarendon Way is now a recreational footpath.\n\nLocal, rural and Park and Ride bus services are provided by Stagecoach South, who run to Andover, Alton, Basingstoke, Petersfield, Romsey and Fareham. Bluestar provide services to Eastleigh and Southampton. Many services are subsidised by Hampshire County Council and community transport schemes are available in areas without a regular bus service. National Express coaches provide services mainly to Bournemouth, Poole, Portsmouth and London.\n\nMegabus also provide long-distance services.\n\nWinchester railway station is served by South Western Railway trains from London Waterloo, Weymouth, Portsmouth and Southampton, as well as by CrossCountry between Bournemouth, and either Manchester or Newcastle via Birmingham. Historically it was also served by a line to London via Alton, which partially survives as the Watercress Line. The closure of this line removed an alternative route between London and Winchester when, due to engineering works or other reasons, the main line was temporarily unusable. There was a second station called Winchester Chesil served by the Didcot, Newbury and Southampton Railway, this closed in the 1960s. This line provided a link to the Midlands and the North, bypassing the present longer route through Reading.\n\nWinchester Combined Court Centre consists of a crown court and county court. It is administered by Her Majesty's Courts Service, an Executive Agency of the Ministry of Justice. Winchester is a first-tier court centre and is visited by High Court judges for criminal and for civil cases (in the District Registry of the High Court). One of the most high-profile cases to be heard here was the Rose West murder trial in 1995.\n\nWinchester has a separate district probate registry, which is part of the High Court. This Court is separate from the main court establishment at the top of Winchester High Street and deals only with probate matters.\n\nThere is a heavily populated Victorian prison, HMP Winchester, opposite the hospital, on the B3040 heading up west from the town centre.\n\nSince 1974 Winchester has hosted the annual Hat Fair, a celebration of street theatre that includes performances, workshops, and gatherings at several venues around the city.\n\nIn 1974 a cycle of medieval mystery plays were staged in the grounds of Wolvesey Castle.\n\nWinchester is the home of the award-winning Blue Apple Theatre, a company of actors.\n\nWinchester hosts one of the UK's larger farmers' markets, with about 100 stalls. It is certified by FARMA. The market takes place on the second and last Sunday of the month in the city centre.\n\nFour newspapers are published for Winchester. The weekly paid-for \"Hampshire Chronicle\", which started out in 1772 reporting national and international news, now concentrates on Winchester and the surrounding area. The \"Southern Daily Echo\" mostly concerns Southampton, but does also feature Winchester. It has an office shared with sister paper the Hampshire Chronicle. The \"Mid-Hants Observer\" is a free, weekly independent paper for Winchester and nearby villages. Its sister paper, the weekly \"Hampshire Independent\", which covers the whole county, is also based in Winchester. The free \"Winchester News Extra\" closed in 2017.\n\nWinchester had its own radio station, Win FM, from October 1999 to October 2007.\n\nIn October 2006, the Channel 4 television programme \"The Best And Worst Places To Live In The UK\", the city was celebrated as the \"Best Place in the UK to Live in: 2006\". In the 2007 edition of the same programme, Winchester had slipped to second place, behind Edinburgh.\n\nA number of public figures and celebrities were students at Peter Symonds College in Winchester, including TV presenter and model Alexa Chung, singer-songwriter and drummer Andy Burrows, glamour model Lucy Pinder, comedian Jack Dee, Magician Ben Hart and singer/actress Gina Beck. Harlequins rugby and England rugby player Joe Marchant. Actor Colin Firth is from Winchester and was educated at Montgomery of Alamein School (now Kings' School). The adventurer and model Laura Bingham was born and brought up in the local area attending The Westgate School. The singer-songwriter Frank Turner hails from Winchester, a fact that he often mentions at concerts as well as in his songs. The band Polly and the Billets Doux formed in Winchester, and are still based in the city. 2011 saw Winchester's first ever Oxjam Takeover music festival, held on 22 October.\n\nIn March 2016, Winchester was named as the best place to live in Britain by the \"Sunday Times Best Places To Live\" guide.\n\nIn the medieval narrative poem, Sir Orfeo, the main character Sir Orfeo is King of Winchester, which is said to be the modern name of Thrace. The final combat of the romance hero Guy of Warwick against the giant Colbrand takes place outside the walls of Winchester.\n\nThe Late Middle Ages author Sir Thomas Malory identified Winchester as the mythical home of Camelot and King Arthur in Le Morte d'Arthur, his collection of medieval legends about the Arthurian myths. (Malory's editor William Caxton disputed this, insisting that Camelot must be in Wales).\n\nA scene in \"Henry Esmond\" (1852) by William Makepeace Thackeray is set in the choir of Winchester cathedral. Winchester is in part the model for \"Barchester\" in the \"Barsetshire\" novels of Anthony Trollope, who attended Winchester College; \"The Warden\" (1855) is said to be based on a scandal at the Hospital of St Cross. A fictionalised Winchester appears as \"Wintoncester\" in Hardy's \"Tess of the d'Urbervilles\" (1891). Some of the action in Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's \"The Adventure of the Copper Beeches\" (1892) takes place in the city—the Black Swan hotel mentioned in the story formerly stood at the end of Southgate St and is still acknowledged by a figure on the outside of the building.\n\nIn Charles Kingsley's romantic history \"Hereward the Wake\" (1866), Hereward smashes his ash lance against the doors of the Westgate, Winchester showing by the strength of his arm that it is he. William the Conqueror is so impressed that he pardons him.\n\nA fictitious estate near Winchester is the scene of a crime in the Sherlock Holmes adventure, \"The Problem of Thor Bridge\" (1922).\n\nIn Gerry Anderson's 1967 and 1968 programme \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons\", background material published by, or with the approval of, Anderson identifies Winchester as the birthplace of the main character, Captain Scarlet, real name Paul Metcalfe.\n\nWinchester is the main location of John Christopher's post-apocalyptic science fiction series, \"Sword of the Spirits\". Winchester Cathedral is featured in James Herbert's horror novel \"The Fog\". The Siege of Winchester in 1141, part of The Anarchy (a civil war) between King Stephen and the Empress Matilda, is an important plot element in the detective novel \"An Excellent Mystery\", part of the Brother Cadfael chronicles by Edith Pargeter writing as Ellis Peters. In Philip Pullman's novel \"The Subtle Knife\" (part of the \"His Dark Materials\" trilogy) the main male protagonist, Will Parry, comes from Winchester. However, little of the book is set there.\n\nIn the movie \"Merlin\", King Uther's first conquest of Britain begins with Winchester, which Merlin foresaw would fall.\n\nIn the novel \"The Pillars of the Earth\", by Ken Follett, which traces English historical events from 1123 C.E. to 1174 C.E., Winchester and its cathedral figure prominently in several chapters. The fictional town of Kingsbridge in the novel is based on Winchester, as Follett explained in the first episode of his Channel 4 2013 documentary series \"Ken Follett's Journey into the Dark Ages\". Accounts of wool merchants and their trading with sheep farmers in Winchester are related to the reader. The reign of Stephen is described and his military actions are recounted, including first-person \"reporting\" of the Battle of Lincoln on 2 February 1141.\n\nIn the Japanese manga \"Death Note\", The Wammy's House, an orphanage founded by Quillish Wammy, where the detective L's successors (Mello, Near, and Matt) are raised, is located in Winchester.\n\nIn the novel \"One Day\" by David Nicholls, the male protagonist Dexter Mayhew went to the public school Winchester College. This is frequently referred to throughout the book, as well as mentioning St. Swithin's Day and the St. Swithin's weather myth.\n\nPatrick Gale's 2009 book \"The Whole Day Through\" is set in Winchester. In S. M. Stirling's 2007 novel, \"The Sunrise Lands\", it is revealed that the British capital has been moved to Winchester. Winchester is an important setting in The Saxon Stories by Bernard Cornwell.\n\nFrank Turner (singer-songwriter) who was raised in the nearby village of Meonstoke (part of the City of Winchester district), wrote and performs the song \"Wessex Boy\" describing Winchester, and how it remains his home. He names the Cathedral, the Buttercross and Jewry Street in his homage to the city.\n\nWinchester is twinned with:\n\nThe Winchester district is twinned with\n\nWinchester, Virginia, is named after the English city, whose Mayor has a standing invitation to be a part of the American city's Shenandoah Apple Blossom Festival. Winchester also gave its name (Frenchified to \"Bicêtre\") to a suburb of Paris, from a manor built there by John of Pontoise, Bishop of Winchester, at the end of the 13th century. It is now the commune of Le Kremlin-Bicêtre.\n\n"}
{"id": "8125947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8125947", "title": "Women in ancient warfare", "text": "Women in ancient warfare\n\nThe role of women in ancient warfare differed from culture to culture. Warfare throughout written history mainly has been portrayed in modern times as a matter for men, but women also have played a role. Until very recently, little mention of these exploits was included in retellings of history in most countries, aside from the Amazons.\n\nFemale deities, whose origins predate historical records, are present in most early cultures. Often they were portrayed as warriors, which signals a pervasive presence of women among such activities prior to a profound change in many human cultures after the adoption of agriculture as the typical sustenance (and which enabled protracted warfare with large armies).\n\nTheir influences, the roles of women rulers, and those of significant women, were retained in many of these cultures so strongly that no layers of new legends, ideals, and myths were able to obscure them completely.\n\nThe following is a list of prominent women who participated in warfare, which was assembled from the fragmentary beginning of written records to approximately 500 AD. Archaeological research provides more details and clues regularly.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55728658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55728658", "title": "Yigal Kipnis", "text": "Yigal Kipnis\n\nYigal Kipnis (born October 28, 1949) is an Israeli historian and author. \nYigal Kipnis earned a BSc in civil engineering from the Technion in Haifa (1977), and completed his MA (2003) and PhD (2006) in Land of Israel Studies at Haifa University. He served as a helicopter pilot in the Israeli Air Force for 31 years, of which 26 were in the reserves. Kipnis has lived on Moshav Ma'ale Gamla since 1978.\n\n\"The Golan Heights: Political History, Settlement and Geography since 1949\" (Routledge, 2013): The book presents Kipnis’ research on the settlement landscape in the Golan Heights on the eve of the Six-Day War and documents the rural Jewish settlement process in the Golan following the war, since 1967. Relations between Israel and Syria throughout this period are analyzed.\n\n\"1973: The Road to War\" (Just World Books, 2013): The book deals with the circumstances leading to the 1973 war and the public discourse about it. In it, Kipnis reveals documentation of secret channels between US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger and the Israeli prime minister, Golda Meir, and between Kissinger and President Sadat of Egypt. Sadat’s peace initiative, supported by President Nixon and Kissinger, was rejected by Israel's prime minister, resulting in the outbreak of war. The documentation affirms the central role of political considerations and reduces the role of the intelligence failure when examining the factors leading to war.\n"}
