{"id": "50696929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50696929", "title": "2016 UCLA shooting", "text": "2016 UCLA shooting\n\nOn June 1, 2016, two men were killed in a murder-suicide at an engineering building at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). The gunman was identified as Indian-born 38-year-old former UCLA Ph.D student, Mainak Sarkar. The victim was William Scott Klug, an associate professor who was Sarkar's thesis adviser while Sarkar was a student at UCLA. A woman, later identified as Sarkar's estranged wife, was found dead in Minnesota during the subsequent investigation into the shooting, and is suspected to have been killed by Sarkar before the UCLA shooting.\n\nThe shooting occurred at a fourth-floor office in Engineering IV, a building that is part of the UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science.\n\nImmediately after the shooting, Christopher Lynch, an aerospace and mechanical engineering professor who heard the gunshots, went to Klug's office. and held the door shut, after which he heard another shot and then silence. Another professor said she heard someone fall after the last shot. Lynch later said that he did not feel the gunman try to open it but suspected the gunman heard yells for the hallway to be cleared out and that police were called in. Lynch was credited for potentially saving lives during the shooting.\n\nA campus-wide alert to avoid the area was issued via UCLA's BruinAlert system at 9:49 a.m. PDT, and Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) officers were summoned to the building shortly before 10:00 a.m. PDT. When officers responded at Engineering IV and met Lynch, he gave them his office key so they could check rooms, and then left with another professor to check on students who locked themselves in the laboratories on the lower floor.\n\nTwo handguns and a suicide note were found near the two bodies. Shortly after the shooting, police sources told \"The Los Angeles Times\" that from the appearance of the bodies, a student may have killed a professor. At least three shots were fired in the shooting.\n\nBased on initial reports of the shooting, authorities mistook it as an attempted mass shooting, prompting a massive police response. School officials put the campus on lockdown as hundreds of UCLA and LAPD officers, including SWAT officers, and officers of other agencies searched the area. A nearby hospital and three elementary schools were also put on lockdown. When the lockdown was lifted just after noon (PDT), classes at UCLA were canceled for the day. An apartment traced to the gunman was searched by police, and a description of his vehicle, which had not been located, was released.\n\nWhile the school was in lockdown, people at many locations found it difficult to shelter in place, as few of the doors had locks for events of this nature. As a result, some students resorted to creative mechanisms to keep the doors closed. Scott Waugh, the school's executive vice-chancellor and provost, said the University will review its active-shooter protocols. The issue was previously brought up during deadly mass shootings at Virginia Tech and Sandy Hook Elementary School, where students and teachers also had to improvise to keep the doors to classrooms closed. Although some schools across the country installed locks to doors, a more widespread adoption of this security measure was hindered by \"the cost to retrofit doors and local fire codes that require doors to open in one motion during emergencies\", according to experts. Some schools and universities disagreed about the importance of door locks during active-shooter situations; the University of Colorado stated that it wanted students and teachers to rely on training instead.\n\nU.S. President Barack Obama was briefed about the shooting aboard Air Force One, according to White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest.\n\nOn June 3, two days after the shooting, the gunman's car was discovered by a bicyclist, parked in a residential area in Culver City, California, located about six miles southeast of the UCLA campus. It contained multiple containers of gasoline and an additional handgun. Police theorized that the containers were used to refuel the car during the gunman's drive from Minnesota to Los Angeles. They also theorized that the gunman parked in Culver City, where he had lived at one time, and took a bus that he regularly used to get to UCLA during his attendance there. A bus transfer was found on his body.\n\nOn June 8, a week after the shooting, UCLA announced the launch of a task force that will review the university's response to the incident, as well as a security analysis of the campus. The task force would later recommend \"more frequent staff and student emergency-response training, more wardens to conduct emergency drills and a requirement that all faculty, staff and students provide cellphone numbers to the school so they could receive emergency-alert text messages.\" Two days later, on June 10, UCLA students and campus leaders also called for more research into the increase of gun violence in American schools, and announced its intention to create the UCLA Institute on Campus Violence. It will be a research center that would \"utilize the university’s research and public service capacity to study strategies to combat campus violence.\"\n\nWilliam Scott Klug (June 19, 1976June 1, 2016) was identified as the victim in the shooting at UCLA. He was an Associate Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. He was married and had two children at the time of his death. He was described by students as humble and easily approachable. Colleagues said he had a strong Christian faith.\n\nKlug received an undergraduate degree at Westmont College, a Christian liberal arts college, in 1997, and master's degree and Ph.D degrees at UCLA and the California Institute of Technology, respectively. Klug joined the UCLA faculty in 2003, and headed the Klug Research Group, a research group studying the field of biomechanics, specifically \"theoretical and computational biomechanics,\" of which Sarkar was a member while a doctoral student.\n\nAshley Erin Hasti, Sarkar's estranged wife at the time of her murder, was identified as the Brooklyn Park, Minnesota victim by a neighbor. Hasti graduated from the University of Minnesota in 2008 with a bachelor's degree in Asian languages and literature. She completed a post-baccalaureate pre-med program at Scripps College in Claremont, California, from 2009 to 2010. During that time, she met Sarkar, and married him in 2011.\n\nAt the time of her death, Hasti was a medical student at the University of Minnesota Medical School, where she had been enrolled since 2012. A native of Minneapolis–Saint Paul, Hasti attended North Hennepin Community College from 2003 to 2006 on a part-time basis, and also took classes there from 2011 to 2012. From 2011 to 2012, Hasti worked as a tutor at the community college.\n\nMainak Sarkar (June 16, 1977June 1, 2016), a former Ph.D student of Klug's, was identified as the gunman on the day after the shooting.\n\nSarkar was born and raised in Durgapur, a city in the state of West Bengal, India. In 1984, he enrolled in St. Michael's School, a local co-education, English-medium school. A schoolteacher working there described Sarkar as \"an ordinary boy. Very quiet. Extremely well behaved and obedient. Never causing any trouble to anyone.\" The teacher also said that Sarkar left the school to attend the nearby Durgapur Bidhan Chandra Institute. From 2000 to 2001, he worked for eighteen months as a software developer at Infosys in Bangalore.\n\nAccording to sources and his now-deactivated LinkedIn profile, Sarkar graduated from the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur in West Bengal, India, in 2000 with an undergraduate degree in aerospace engineering. He then traveled to the U.S. in 2001 on a student visa to pursue graduate studies. He first attended Stanford University from 2003 to 2005, graduating with a master's degree in aeronautical and astronautical engineering. Sarkar then attended UCLA's engineering school from the fall of 2007 to the summer of 2013, graduating with a Ph.D degree in solid mechanics. Professors at UCLA described him as a \"quiet and reserved\" man who would not greet them whenever he passed by, and stated that he left \"little impression\" in their classes.\n\nSarkar became a permanent U.S. resident in May 2014. He lived in Culver City while attending UCLA, but sometime after graduating from the University, he moved to Minnesota.\n\nAt some point after his relocation to the U.S., Sarkar briefly worked as a research assistant at the University of Texas at Arlington and as a software developer. After graduating from UCLA, he had been employed remotely as an engineering analyst for a rubber company in Ohio. In August 2014, he left his job, according to a former coworker.\n\nSarkar maintained a personal blog called \"thelongdarktunnel\", which has since been deleted. For months, he had been making hostile comments about Klug on social media, according to \"The Los Angeles Times\". At one point, he called Klug a \"very sick person\" and accused him of stealing his computer code and giving it to another student. UCLA denied the accusation through a police official, who said, \"This is the workings of his imagination.\" Previously, however, he was listed in 2010 as Klug's teaching assistant in a mechanical and aerospace engineering class, and had expressed gratitude to him in his doctoral dissertation; Klug was listed as his adviser in it. He was also one of six doctoral students involved in the Klug Research Group, a computational biomechanics research group organized by Klug, which developed \"continuum and multiscale methods to understand the mechanics of biological structures from the molecular and cellular scales upward,\" according to the group's website. According to a source familiar with Sarkar and Klug's relationship, Sarkar had struggled with mental health problems such as depression, which compromised his work at UCLA.\n\nSarkar was linked to another murder in Brooklyn Park, Minnesota; this victim, a woman later identified as Ashley Hasti, was found shot to death in her residence. Sarkar met and dated Hasti while both were living in California. According to the Hennepin County, Minnesota Clerk's Office, Sarkar and Hasti married on July 14, 2011, but at the time of the murder, they had been known to have been living separately for some time. Hasti's grandmother described Sarkar as being polite and reserved, but unable to handle Hasti teasing him. Police believe Hasti had been dead for \"maybe a couple of days\" when the shooting at UCLA occurred. Sarkar is believed to have gained entry into Hasti's home by breaking a window.\n\nPolice found a \"kill list\" at Sarkar's home in Saint Paul, Minnesota, which named Hasti and Klug as well as another UCLA professor who remains unidentified but is stated to be \"alright\" by a police official. This professor, who had been aware of Sarkar's issues with him, was later confirmed to have been off-campus at the time of the shooting.\n\nAfter killing Hasti, Sarkar is believed by police to have equipped himself with two legally-purchased handguns, along with several rounds of ammunition and magazines, and driven from his home to Los Angeles to commit Klug's murder. A police official said of his weaponry, \"He was certainly prepared to engage multiple victims\". Ballistic tests indicated Klug and Hasti were both killed by the same handgun. A search of Sarkar's Minnesota apartment recovered more ammunition and a ballistic vest, alongside other items.\n\nKlug was memorialized in a tweet posted by California Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom, who called him an \"empathetic, brilliant teacher.\" On the day after the shooting, UCLA hosted a candlelight vigil, attended by hundreds, including the Mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti. UCLA established a support fund for Klug's family on June 7.\n\nMedia outlets in India noted some similarities between Sarkar's killings and a 1969 murder case at the University of California, Berkeley, where student Prosenjit Poddar \"misconstrued a friendship with an American girl as an abiding commitment to a relationship, and murdered her in a fit of madness.\"\n"}
{"id": "4885291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4885291", "title": "Aaron Twerski", "text": "Aaron Twerski\n\nProfessor Aaron D. Twerski (born May, 1939) is a professor at Brooklyn Law School, as well as a former Dean and professor of tort law at Hofstra University School of Law. He is a prolific scholar who served as co-reporter for the American Law Institute’s Restatement of Torts Third: Products Liability, receiving the prestigious designation of \"R. Ammi Cutter Reporter\" for his outstanding performance. He is the author of five books and more than 70 articles in scholarly journals about torts, products liability and conflict of laws. He served as a professor at Hofstra University School of Law from 1972 to 1986 and at Brooklyn Law School from 1986 to 2005, when he became dean of Hofstra Law School. He has been appointed by Federal Judge Alvin Hellerstein as one of two Special Masters to handle cases filed by workers who suffered respiratory illnesses as a result of cleaning up the World Trade Center site after the September 11, 2001 terror attacks.\n\nProfessor Twerski has been a visiting professor at Cornell Law School, Boston University and the University of Michigan. A teaching fellow at Harvard Law School from 1966–67, he was a trial attorney with the United States Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division - Honors Program, 1965-66. He holds a Juris Doctor, cum laude, from Marquette University Law School, where he was the student editor of the Marquette Law Review. In addition, Professor Twerski has an A.B. in Talmudic Law from Beth Medrash Elyon Talmudic Research Institute and attended Ner Israel Rabbinical College. He received his Bachelor of Science in Philosophy from the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, where he was a member of the Phi Eta Sigma National Honor fraternity.\n\nHe is a scion of the Chernobyl, Chabad, Sanz and Bobov Hasidic dynasties. He and his twin brother Rabbi Michel Twerski were the youngest sons of Rabbi Jacob Israel Twerski (1899-1973) and Rebbetzin Dvorah Leah Twerski (1900-1995). He was raised in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where his father was the rabbi of Congregation Beth Jehudah. Aaron Twerski is the younger brother of Rabbi Abraham J. Twerski (1930–), a noted psychiatrist and author of some 55 books on Judaism and self-image. His twin brother is now the rabbi of Congregation Beth Jehudah. He has been married to Kreindel Twerski since 1960.\n\nOn February 5, 2007, he announced that he intended to resign as Dean of Hofstra Law School by July 31. He attributed the resignation to his recent quadruple-bypass surgery.\n\nHe is now a professor at Brooklyn Law School where he teaches conflict of laws, product liability, and torts.\n\n"}
{"id": "48842881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48842881", "title": "Amblin Partners", "text": "Amblin Partners\n\nAmblin Partners (legally known as Storyteller Holding Co., LLC and Storyteller Distribution Co., LLC) is an American content creation and entertainment company which produces and develops films and television programming. Amblin is a restructured DreamWorks Studios.\n\nAmblin Partners was founded by Steven Spielberg, Jeff Skoll of Participant Media, Anil Ambani of Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group and Darren Throop of Entertainment One on December 16, 2015. The company will primarily focus on producing and distributing films and television using the DreamWorks Pictures, Amblin Entertainment and Participant Media brands. For films, it will use the DreamWorks label for mature content, Amblin label for family-friendly content, and Participant label for social justice content, although the latter will remain a separate company.\n\nOn the same day as the company's formation, Amblin Partners announced that it entered into a five-year distribution deal with Universal Pictures by which the films will be distributed and marketed by either the main Universal label or its specialty label, Focus Features. \"The Girl on the Train\" was the first film released under the new agreement.\n\nOn October 9, 2016, Amblin Partners struck a deal with China's Alibaba Pictures, in which Alibaba acquired a minority equity stake in the company and will handle marketing, distribution support and merchandising of Amblin Partners films in China in addition to co-financing Amblin and DreamWorks films worldwide. On February 15, 2017, Universal acquired a minority stake in Amblin Partners, strengthening the relationship between Universal and Amblin, and reuniting a minority percentage of the DreamWorks Pictures label with its former animation division DreamWorks Animation.\n\nIn December 2017, Amblin Partners signed a music publishing deal with BMG Rights Management, covering music from its films and TV series.\n"}
{"id": "55135242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55135242", "title": "Antarctic Treaty issue", "text": "Antarctic Treaty issue\n\nThe Antarctic Treaty issue is a postage stamp that was issued by the United States Post Office Department on June 23, 1971. Designed by Howard Koslow, it commemorates the ten-year anniversary of the Antarctic Treaty, and is notable as Koslow's first postage stamp design. \n\nThe stamp has a face value of eight cents. One-hundred thirty million were issued. \n\nThe Antarctic Treaty was signed on December 1, 1959 by the United States and eleven other nations involved in scientific research on the continent of Antarctica during the preceding biennium; seven of these nations – Argentina, Australia, Chile, France, New Zealand, Norway and the United Kingdom – had competing territorial claims to Antarctica. From November 18 to November 19, 1968, the fifth consultative meeting of the state parties to the treaty was held in Paris. During it, the issue of decennial commemorative stamps by the state parties who had signed the Antarctic Treaty was recommended.\n\nThe public announcement of the Antarctic Treaty issue release was made in May 1971 and it was officially released June 23, 1971, the tenth (decennial) anniversary on which the Antarctic Treaty became effective. \n\nThe official release was accompanied by a first day ceremony in Washington, D.C. attended by United States Secretary of State William P. Rogers, United States Postmaster General Winton M. Blount, and the ambassadors to the United States of the state parties to the Antarctic Treaty. During the ceremony, Blount presented an album of the stamps to Soviet ambassador Anatoly Dobrynin.\n\nOne-hundred thirty million Antarctic Treaty issue stamps were printed. \n\nSpecimens of the stamp, as well as its plate proofs, are held by the National Philatelic Collection, housed in the National Postal Museum. In 2013, the United States Postal Service (USPS) auctioned on eBay a proof of the Antarctic Treaty issue that contained the handwritten approval of Postmaster General Blount. The proof was one of two such proofs of the Antarctic Treaty issue held in the Postmaster General's Philatelic Collection. It sold for $1,099.99.\n\nThe stamp was designed by the acclaimed American postage stamp illustrator Howard Koslow, and was notable as his first postage stamp design. It features a map of Antarctica in white, set on a field of blue, which was adapted from the logo design used on documents of the treaty's consultative meetings. Earlier, in 1965, the Special Committee on Antarctic Research of the International Council of Scientific Unions had called for stamps commemorating the decennial of the treaty to prominently feature the map of Antarctica. Due to competing territorial claims in Antarctica, the simplicity of a map-centered design was considered a matter of political importance. \n\nThe stamp has an eight cents face value.\n\nIn addition to the United States, other state parties to the Antarctic Treaty also issued commemorative stamps on its ten-year anniversary. \n\nIn 1991, on the fiftieth anniversary of the Antarctic Treaty, the United States issued another stamp commemorating the Antarctic Treaty. Howard Koslow returned to design the fifty-cent, airmail, stamp which depicted \"USCGC Glacier\" near Ross Island.\n\n"}
{"id": "41894447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41894447", "title": "Armistice between Russia and the Central Powers", "text": "Armistice between Russia and the Central Powers\n\nOn 15 December 1917, an armistice was signed between the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR) on the one side and the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Bulgaria, the German Empire and the Ottoman Empire—the Central Powers—on the other. The armistice took effect two days later, on 17 December. (These were 2 December and 4 December, respectively, in the Old Style [O.S.] calendar in use in Russia at the time.) By this agreement Russia \"de facto\" exited World War I, although fighting would briefly resume before the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk was signed on 3 March 1918 and Russia made peace.\n\nThe Bolsheviks came to power with the slogan \"Bread and Peace\". On 26 November (13 November O.S.) 1917 three Russian emissaries under a white flag entered the German lines to arrange for negotiations which they agreed would be held at the headquarters of the Central Powers Armies at Brest-Litovsk. A local ceasefire agreement was reached at Soly on 4 December (21 November O.S.) between the Russians and Germans on the Eastern Front (Russia's \"Western Front\"). It superseded any local ceasefires or truces already agreed to—without specifying what these were—and was to be in effect from 6–17 December. Notice of the agreement was published in \"Izvestia\" on 8 December (25 November O.S.).\n\nA fuller ceasefire encompassing all the Central Powers was signed at Brest-Litovsk on 5 December (22 November O.S.), the day after the agreement with Germany at Soly. This ceasefire came into effect a day later (7 December [24 November O.S.]), but expired on the same date as the local agreement of 4 December. It was published in \"Izvestia\" on the day it came into effect. In Soviet historiography there is some dispute about whether any agreement was signed on 5 December, and the explicit reference in the text of the armistice to a ceasefire of that date is dismissed as an error. That the 5 December agreement is historical is generally agreed. One of the Russian negotiators, L. B. Kamenev, wrote about the details of the agreement in \"Izvestia\" on 9 December (26 November O.S.); and the German general Max Hoffmann discussed it in his war diary.\n\nThe negotiations were organized by General Max Hoffmann, chief of staff of the Eastern Armies. His negotiating team consisted of five Germans, four Austro-Hungarians (led by Kajetan von Mérey), three Ottomans (led by Zeki Pasha) and two Bulgarians (led by Petar Ganchev). Russian overtures to their French, Italian, and British allies to join in were rejected with \"an, angry stony silence\". Foreign minister Leon Trotsky assembled a Russian delegation of twenty eight, which one of them described as a menagerie because they were chosen to represent the social groups supporting the revolution, including soldiers, sailors, and factory workers. On the way to the railway station they realized that they lacked a peasant one was recruited from the street. The female representative was celebrated for having assassinated a general. They were led by Adolph Joffe, an experienced Bolshevik who had studied medicine in Berlin, supported by a tsarist lieutenant colonel as military adviser and the experienced revolutionaries Kamenev and Lev Karakhan. \n\nWhen they arrived at Brest-Litovsk they found the city a blackened ruin, burnt to the ground during the Russian retreat in 1915. The offices and common facilities of the headquarters were in the fortress which had survived the fire and lodgings were in temporary wooden buildings erected in its courtyards. The delegation was welcomed by Field Marshal Prince Leopold of Bavaria, a younger brother of the King of Bavaria and supreme commander on the eastern front. The Russians ate in the officer's mess, where their hosts endeavored to establish friendly relations with their perplexing guests. \n\nAfter three days of negotiations they agreed on an armistice for twenty eight days, during which no German troops would leave the eastern front. The sticking point was that Joffe's instructions were to sign a general armistice for all of the fighting fronts, which Hoffmann rejected because obviously they had no such mandate from their allies. The talks were recessed for a week while Joffe obtained new instructions. The Russians returned without their symbolic soldier, sailor, worker, and peasant. On 15 December 1917 an armistice for thirty days was agreed, which would automatically be extended to thirty days until seven days after notice had been given by any party of its intention to resume hostilities. A supplement to the armistice was signed later the same day. It provided for a commission to be set up at Saint Petersburg (Petrograd) to restore the postal system, trade relations and the transport of books and newspapers. \n\nThey also agreed to reconvene to begin to negotiate a peace treaty.\nOn 10 February 1918, the treaty negotiations broke down. On 17 February Hoffmann gave official notice that hostilities would be renewed on 18 February when the final campaign of the Eastern Front (Operation \"Faustschlag\") began, forcing the Russians to give way and sign. \n\n"}
{"id": "2978188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978188", "title": "Bering Sea Arbitration", "text": "Bering Sea Arbitration\n\nThe Bering Sea Arbitration of 1893 arose out of a fishery dispute between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and the United States in the 1880s. The United States Revenue Cutter Service, today known as the United States Coast Guard, captured several Canadian sealer vessels throughout the conflict. Diplomatic representations followed the capture of the first three ships and an order for release was issued by the British imperial government (then still in charge of foreign affairs for the Dominion of Canada), but it did nothing to stop the seizures and none were released. This led to the U.S. claiming exclusive jurisdiction over the sealing industry in the Bering Sea, and that led to negotiations outside of the courts. The award was given in favor of the British, however, and the Americans were denied exclusive jurisdiction. The British were awarded compensation for the damage that had been inflicted on their vessels, and the American sealing zone remained as it was prior to the conflict (60 miles).\n\nIn 1867 the United States government purchased from Russia all her territorial rights in Alaska and the adjacent islands. The boundary between the two countries was a line drawn from the middle of Bering Strait south-west to a point midway between the Aleutian and Komandorski Islands dividing the Bering Sea into two parts, the larger being on the American side. This portion included the Pribilof Islands, the principal breeding-grounds of the seals in those seas.\n\nBy Acts of Congress, passed between 1868 and 1873, the killing of seals was prohibited on the Pribilof Islands and in \"the waters adjacent thereto\" except upon certain specified conditions. This created a large swathe of friction between the executive and legislative branches of the US government with the presidential veto employed by Ulysses S. Grant on two notable occasions. No definition of the meaning of the words \"waters adjacent\" was given in the act. In 1870 the exclusive rights of killing seals on these islands was leased by the United States to the Alaska Commercial Company, on conditions limiting the numbers to be taken annually, and otherwise providing for their protection. As early as 1872, the operations of foreign sealers attracted the attention of the United States' government, but any precautions then taken seem to have been directed against the capture of seals on their way through the passages between the Aleutian Islands, and no claim to jurisdiction beyond the three-mile limit appears to have been made. On March 12, 1881, the acting United States Secretary of the Treasury, in answer to a letter asking for an interpretation of the words \"waters adjacent thereto\" in the acts of 1868 and 1873, stated that all the waters east of the boundary line were considered to be within the waters of Alaska territory. In March 1886 this letter was communicated to the San Francisco customs by Daniel Manning, U.S. Secretary of the Treasury, for publication.\n\nBeginning in about 1886, it became the practice of certain Canadian vessels to intercept passing seals in the open ocean (over three miles from any shore) and shoot them in the water (pelagic sealing), often killing both male and female. The great drawback of pelagic sealing lies in the fact that nursing seal mothers wander far in search of food, while the males do not take food during the breeding season, but remain on the islands. Consequently, practically all the seals taken by pelagic sealers are nursing females, the death of which ordinarily results in the starvation of the pups. As a result of this practice, the real possibility of the destruction of the seal fisheries became apparent, together with industries valuable to both the United States and Great Britain.\n\nIn the summer of 1886, three British Columbian sealers, the \"Carolena\", \"Onward\", and \"Thornton\", were captured by an American revenue cutter, the \"Corwin\", 60 miles from land. They were condemned by the district judge because they had been sealing within the limits of Alaska territory and owed a pro tanto obligation to respect the sovereign laws of the Territory of Alaska. Diplomatic representations followed and an order for release was issued but, in 1887, further captures were made which were judicially supported on the same grounds. From that point the United States claimed exclusive jurisdiction over the sealing industry in the Bering Sea; it also contended that the protection of the fur seal was an international duty, and should be secured by international arrangement. The British imperial government (then still in charge of foreign affairs for the Dominion of Canada) repudiated the claim, but was willing to negotiate on the question of international regulation.\n\nBetween 1887 and 1890, negotiations were carried out among Russia, Great Britain and the United States with a view to a joint convention but the parties were unable to agree on basis for regulating sealing in the open seas, the pelagic zone. America had seal nurseries on the Pribilof Islands and Russia on the Komandorski group. Neither Britain, nor the Dominion of Canada, had land access to the Bering Sea or seal breeding grounds. Thus, to prohibit pelagic sealing would have been to exclude Britain from the industry.\n\nThe United States insisted that such prohibition was indispensable on the grounds that pelagic sealing involved the destruction of breeding stock, because it was practically impossible to distinguish between the male and female seal when in the water; and that it was unnecessarily wasteful, inasmuch as a large proportion of the seals so killed were lost. Britain contended that in all known cases the extermination of seals had been the result of operations upon land, and had never been caused exclusively by sealing in the pelagic zone.\n\nThe negotiations came to nothing, and the United States fell back upon their claim of right. In June 1890, it was reported that certain American revenue cutters had been ordered to proceed to the Bering Sea. Sir Julian Pauncefote, the British ambassador at Washington, having failed to obtain an assurance that British vessels would not be interfered with, laid a formal protest before the United States government.\n\nThere followed a diplomatic controversy, in the course of which the United States developed the contentions which were afterwards laid before the tribunal of arbitration. The claim that Bering Sea was \"mare clausum\" was abandoned, but it was asserted that Russia had formerly exercised therein rights of exclusive jurisdiction which had passed to the United States, and they relied \"inter alia\" upon the ukase of 1821, by which foreign vessels had been forbidden to approach within 100 Italian miles of the coasts of Russian America. It was pointed out by Great Britain that this ukase had been the subject of protest both by Great Britain and the United States, and that by treaties similar in their terms, made between Russia and each of the protesting powers, Russia had agreed that their subjects should not be troubled or molested in navigating or fishing in any part of the Pacific Ocean. The American answer was that the Pacific Ocean did not include the Bering Sea. They also claimed an interest in the fur seals, involving the right to protect them outside the three-mile limit. In August 1890 Lord Salisbury proposed that the question at issue should be submitted to arbitration. This was ultimately assented to by the secretary of state, James Gillespie Blaine, on the understanding that certain specific\npoints, which he indicated, should be laid before the arbitrators.\n\nOn February 29, 1892, a definitive treaty was signed at Washington, D.C. Each power was to name two arbitrators, and the president of the French Republic, the king of Italy, the king of Norway and Sweden were each to name one.\n\nThe points submitted were\n\nIn the event of a determination in favour of Great Britain the arbitrators were to determine what concurrent regulations were necessary for the preservation of the seals, and a joint commission was to be appointed by the two powers to assist them in the investigation of the facts of seal life. The question of damages was reserved for further discussion, but either party was to be at liberty to submit any question of fact to the arbitrators, and to ask for a finding thereon. The tribunal was to sit at Paris. The treaty was approved by the United States Senate on the March 29, 1892, and ratified by the president on April 22.\n\nThe United States appointed as arbitrator Mr. John M. Harlan, a justice of the Supreme Court, and Mr John T. Morgan, a member of the Senate. The British arbitrators were Lord Hannen and Sir John Sparrow David Thompson. The neutral arbitrators were the Baron de Courcel, the Marquis Visconti-Venosta, and Mr. Gregers Winther Wulfsberg Gram, appointed respectively by the president of the French Republic, the king of Italy, and the king of Norway and Sweden. The sittings of the tribunal began in February 1893 and ended in August. Henry Williams Blodgett acted as U.S. counsel before the tribunal.\n\nWhen the evidence was before the tribunal, it was plain that the United States had a very weak case with regard to the claim of exclusive jurisdiction in the Bering Sea (the first claim), and it was not strongly pressed by the counsel of the United States. The real question, therefore, and the one upon which the chief argument was directed, was the second of the two claims put forward on behalf of the United States, the right of property in the seals and the right of protecting them beyond the three-mile limit.\n\nIt was suggested that the seals had some of the characteristics of the domestic animals, and could therefore be the subject of something in the nature of a right of property. They were so far amenable to human control that it was possible to take their increase without destroying the stock. Sealing upon land was legitimate sealing; the United States being the owners of the land, the industry was a trust vested in them for the benefit of mankind. On the other hand, pelagic sealing, being a method of promiscuous slaughter, was illegitimate; it was \"contra bonos mores\" and analogous to piracy. Consequently, the United States claimed a right to restrain such practices, both as proprietors of the seals and as proprietors and trustees of the legitimate industry.\n\nSuch a right to restrain was a novelty hitherto unrecognized by any system of law. James C. Carter, therefore, as counsel for the United States, submitted a theory of international jurisprudence which was equally novel. He argued that the determination of the tribunal must be grounded upon \"the principles of right,\" that \"by the rule or principle of right was meant a moral rule dictated by the general standard of justice upon which civilized nations are agreed, that this international standard of justice is but another name for international law, that the particular recognized rules were but cases of the application of a more general rule, and that where the particular rules were silent the general rule applied.\" The practical result of giving effect to this contention would be that an international tribunal could make new law and apply it retrospectively. Carter's contention was successfully combated by Charles Russell, the leading counsel for Great Britain.\n\nThe award, which was signed and published on 15 August 1893, was in favour of Great Britain on all points. The question of damages, which had been reserved, was ultimately settled by a mixed commission appointed by the two powers in February 1896, the total amount awarded to the British sealers being $473,151.26 - in excess of US$10 million in present-day inflation-adjusted dollars.\n\nSince the decision was in favor of Great Britain, in accordance with the arbitration treaty the tribunal prescribed a series of regulations for preserving the seal herds which were to be binding upon and enforced by both powers. They limited pelagic sealing as to time, place, and manner by fixing a zone of 60 miles around the Pribilof Islands within which the seals were not to be molested at any time, and from May 1 to July 31 each year they were not to be pursued anywhere in Bering Sea. Only licensed sailing vessels were permitted to engage in fur sealing, and the use of firearms or explosives was prohibited. The regulations were to remain in force until abolished by mutual agreement, but were to be examined every five years with a view to modification.\n\nThese regulations, however, failed of their object, because the mother seals did not feed within the protected area, but far outside of it. The mother seals were therefore taken by the pelagic sealers as before, and their young were left to starve. The largest catch in the history of pelagic sealing, that of 1894, was made in the first season of the operation of these very regulations designed to so limit and restrict pelagic sealing as to protect and preserve the herd.\n\nA joint commission of scientists from Great Britain and the United States further considered the problem, and came to the conclusion that the pelagic sealing needed to be curtailed. However further joint tribunals did not enact new legal restrictions, and then Japan also embarked upon pelagic sealing. Finally, the North Pacific Fur Seal Convention of 1911 severely curtailed the sealing industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38082860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38082860", "title": "Calderbank v Calderbank", "text": "Calderbank v Calderbank\n\nCalderbank v Calderbank [1975] 3 All ER 333 (EWCA) was an important English Court of Appeal decision establishing the concept of a \"Calderbank Offer\". A “Calderbank Offer” can often be identified by the disclaimer \"without prejudice, save as to costs\".\nAfter a marriage of 17 years, Mr and Mrs Calderbank separated and filed for divorce, which was duly granted.\n\nHowever substantial difficulties arose regarding the division of the matrimonial assets of £78,000, consisting of the £80,000 Mrs Calderbank had previously inherited during the relationship from the estates from the death of both her parents. Complicating matters further, the matrimonial home was registered under only Mr Calderbank’s name (due to fiscal reasons) and he continued to live in this property after the divorce.\n\nThe matter was referred to the Family Court, and the judge awarded Mr Calderbank the modest amount of £10,000 (out of the total assets of £78,000), as well as court costs.\n\nHowever prior to the matter going to trial, Mrs Calderbank had made the following offer via no less than the form of an affidavit \"I am willing, and have always been willing, to make over to the [husband] the house at Alderley Edge\", which Mr Calderbank declined.\n\nWhile this house was not the matrimonial home (it was rented by Mr Calderbank’s father, and Mr Calderbank's mother lived there), the trial judge was of the opinion that this house was worth about £12,000, which was £2,000 more than Mr Calderbank later obtained at trial.\n\nMrs Calderbank, not happy with the outcome, appealed on 2 grounds, first that the courts had no legal jurisdiction to make such a property division, and secondly, and of most legal significance, that as Mr Calderbank had obviously declined a reasonable pre trial settlement offer, he should not be entitled to legal costs for unnecessarily prolonging these legal proceedings.\n\nThe Court decided that where a winning party in litigation refuses an earlier settlement offer made by the losing party, the losing party may produce the settlement offer as evidence towards the appropriate level of costs payable. In practice, if the winning party’s award of damages is less than the earlier settlement offer, then the losing party may have to pay less costs to the winning party than normal.\n\nOn the facts, the Court upheld the lower court's quantum of the £10,000. However, the Court reversed the burden of paying legal costs from Mrs Calderbank onto Mr Calderbank. The Court held that the legal proceedings had been unnecessarily prolonged by Mr Calderbank's earlier refusal to accept Mrs Calderbank's settlement offer of around £12,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "26060793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26060793", "title": "Canon of Laws", "text": "Canon of Laws\n\nThe Canon of Laws or Classic of Law () is a lost legal code that has been attributed to Lǐ Kuǐ (), a Legalist scholar and minister who lived in the State of Wei during the Warring States Period of Chinese history (475-220 BCE). This code has traditionally been dated to the early fourth century BCE, but scholars now widely consider it to be a forgery from the fifth or sixth century CE.\n\nAccording to the traditional account, which first appeared in the monograph on law (\"Xingfa zhi\" 刑法志) of the \"Book of Jin\", the \"Canon of Laws\" was the earliest legal canon of ancient China and became the basis for all later legal works. It is said that Legalist reformer Shāng Yǎng () took it to the State of Qin where it became the basis of the law of the State of Qin () and later the law of the Qin Dynasty.\n\nAlthough the original text has been lost, according to later records the Canon of Laws comprised six chapters:\n\n"}
{"id": "2498717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2498717", "title": "Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth", "text": "Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth\n\nThe Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth (CAMY) is a research and advocacy organization, based at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore, MD, which monitors and reports on youth exposure to alcohol advertising. According to CAMY's mission statement, the organization \"monitors the marketing practices of the alcohol industry to focus attention and action on industry practices that jeopardize the health and safety of America's youth.\" For purposes of CAMY's research, youth are defined as persons under the age of 21, which is the minimum legal age in the US for the purchase and public possession of alcoholic beverages, although not necessarily for consumption.\n\nSince its founding in 2002, CAMY has reported on alcohol advertising and marketing in television, magazines, radio, and the internet, and has produced over 25 reports. Its reports are generally based on research used by marketers and the advertising industry to plan, buy, and sell advertising time and space.\n\nCAMY is funded by The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) by grants administered through Johns Hopkins University. From 2002 until 2008, CAMY was funded by The Pew Charitable Trusts and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation by grants administered through Georgetown University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "408891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408891", "title": "Corporate nationalism", "text": "Corporate nationalism\n\nCorporate nationalism is a phrase that is used to convey various meanings:\n\n\"Corporate Nationalism\" may be used to describe a political philosophy and economic theory whose adherents are corporatists and believe that the basic unit of the society, be it the family or other corporate groups, has the same interests as the nation. Some therefore believe that the state should deal primarily with \"corporations\", which may include companies, worker's cooperatives, unions and so on, and allow these units to organize themselves to serve their members as they feel fit.\n\nThe Christian Falangist Party of America espouses this view. They do not reject the right of investors to make profit, but believe they do not have the right to take actions such as moving factories to other countries and thus endangering American workers.\n\nNorway has a history of state campaigns to block foreign companies from taking over major Norwegian firms. In 2005, PepsiCo was rumored to be planning a bid to take over French food group Danone, arousing popular outcry. A former boss of Danone said. \"Danone is like Chartres cathedral, and one does not buy the cathedral of Chartres.\"\n\nThe phrase may be used to describe national intervention in corporations, including outright nationalization where the state assumes ownership of the corporation. Some see recent US government interventions in the Financial industry, including the effective nationalization of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are seen as a form of corporate nationalism.\n\nSome libertarians in the USA consider that the end of slavery coincided with the start of a regime \"tainted\" by aggressive \"corporate nationalism\", or government intervention into the economy. In this view, the destruction of chattel slavery preserved and perpetuated \"bourgeois\" slavery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41900223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41900223", "title": "Council of Managers of National Antarctic Programs", "text": "Council of Managers of National Antarctic Programs\n\nCouncil of Managers of National Antarctic Programs (COMNAP) is the international association, formed in 1988, which brings together the National Antarctic Programs. National Antarctic Programs are those organizations that have responsibility for delivering and supporting scientific research in the Antarctic Treaty Area on behalf of their respective governments and in the spirit of the Antarctic Treaty. Its secretariat is in Christchurch, New Zealand. COMNAP has an observer status at the Antarctic Treaty System's yearly Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meetings (ATCM).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "502633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=502633", "title": "Counterparty", "text": "Counterparty\n\nA counterparty (sometimes contraparty) is a legal entity, unincorporated entity, or collection of entities to which an exposure to financial risk might exist. The word became widely used in the 1980s, particularly at the time of the Basel I in 1988.\n\nWell-drafted contracts usually attempt to spell out in explicit detail what each counterparty's rights and obligations are in every conceivable circumstance, though there are limits. There are general provisions for how counterparties are treated under the law, and (at least in common law legal systems) there are many legal precedents that shape the common law.\n\nWithin the financial services sector, the term market counterparty is used to refer to governments, national banks, national monetary authorities and international monetary organisations such as the World Bank Group that act as the ultimate guarantor for loans and indemnities. The term may also be applied, in a more general sense, to companies acting in this role.\n\nAlso within financial services, counterparty can refer to brokers, investment banks, and other securities dealers that serve as the contracting party when completing \"over the counter\" securities transactions. The term is generally used in this context in relation to \"counterparty risk\", which is the risk of monetary loss a firm may be exposed to if the counterparty to an over-the-counter securities trade encounters difficulty meeting its obligations under the terms of the transaction.\n\nWithin the insurance sector, this term is extended to include companies offering or requiring high-level retrocession of insurance risk to insurance companies in a role similar to that offered by governments. This term, over time, has become more generally applied to companies offering or requiring retrocession and other forms of reinsurance.\n"}
{"id": "13741399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13741399", "title": "Covered security", "text": "Covered security\n\nIn U.S. law, a covered security may refer to two categories of securities:\nThe latter category was created in an amendment to section 6045 of the Internal Revenue Code in of the \"Energy Improvement and Extension Act of 2008\" (Public Law 110-343, ). The law refers to any security in this category as \"specified security\", and defines such securities to include stock in a corporation, notes, bonds, debentures and other evidence of indebtedness, commodities, commodity contracts or derivatives, and any other financial instrument for which the Secretary of the Treasury or his delegate determines that the reporting of adjusted basis is appropriate. Information is reportable if the security is acquired after a certain effective date (with some exceptions, January 1, 2011).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39611286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39611286", "title": "Criminal syndicalism", "text": "Criminal syndicalism\n\nCriminal syndicalism has been defined as a doctrine of criminal acts for political, industrial, and social change. These criminal acts include advocation of crime, sabotage, violence, and other unlawful methods of terrorism. Criminal syndicalism laws were enacted to oppose economic radicalism.\n\nIdaho legislation defines it as, “the doctrine which advocates crime, sabotage, violence, or other unlawful methods of terrorism as a means of accomplishing industrial or political reform”.\n\nKey terms in criminal syndicalism statutes had vague definitions.\n\nCriminal syndicalism became a matter of public attention during and after the World War I period, and has been used to stymie the efforts of radical labor movements.\n\nDuring the 1910s, the public was hostile towards leftist ideologies and deemed social radicalism un-American. Government officials on the state and federal level ordered arrests, imprisonments and killings of people who challenged industrial capitalism or made militant demands under the pre-existing economic structure.\n\nBy the year 1933, over 700 convictions of criminal syndicalism were made. Organizations like the American Civil Liberties Union believe laws on criminal syndicalism were aimed to punish doctrines or memberships in unions.\n\nCriminal Syndicalism laws were enacted to combat the efforts of radical labor unions. The Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) is one such union in particular. Defining the labor efforts as criminal allowed for the government to stop the Wobblies' activities and the labor problem of World War I and post World War I altogether. Senator W.G. Walker of Idaho, the nation’s first state to enact a criminal syndicalism law, introduced the criminal syndicalism legislation to the Senate with an anti-IWW speech.\n\nThe IWW’s confrontational rhetoric factored into public concerns. The organization used “sabotages” and military tactics in its invocation of social change. The public assumed the IWW promoted violence and destruction of properties even though the IWW did not share these intentions. The IWW’s later attempts at reducing enforcement efforts through distancing itself from this doctrine were unsuccessful.\n\nThe IWW’s opposition to United States’ involvement in World War I was in contrast of public sentiment, leading to an unfavorable public opinion towards the organization.\n\nPatriotic societies alleged that German gold financed IWW operations, and that the organization received support from hostile nations.\n\nThe red scare exacerbated public distrust and fear against all radical leftist organizations, including the IWW. Strikes (involving over 4 million workers) across the nation increased negative sentiments against these organizations.\nVarious bombings and bombing plots attributed to radical leftists caused the public to view radical leftist organizations as threats to state security.\nWhile repressions against the IWW through government actions and vigilantism were rampant, the public continued to perceive efforts to suppress the organization as insufficient.\n\nThe defense by the IWW's General Defense Committee in the case of Fiske v. Kansas resulted in a critically important 1924 Supreme Court ruling which led to the decline of criminal syndicalism laws as a factor in legislative anti-union initiatives.\n\nState government legislation has been made to address criminal syndicalism according to their own definitions. States enacted criminal laws, the first of which was enacted in Idaho in 1917, or sedition law (operating basically in the same way as criminal syndicalism laws).\n\nDuring World War I and post-World War I, more than half the states passed these anti-radical statutes, most of which still remain in effect today.\n\nBy 1935, there were a number of 33 states with remaining criminal syndicalism laws or sedition laws. Between the years 1918 and 1919 Montana, South Dakota, Nebraska, and fourteen other states passed criminal syndicalism laws and between 1917 and 1923 thirteen states enacted sedition laws. Those states without Criminal Syndicalism laws or sedition laws during this period are noted to have had some similar already existing statutes against incitement and rebellion.\n\nThe degree of the consequences range from state to state. Criminal Syndicalism laws called for maximum fines of $10,000 and a maximum 25-year prison sentence. Prosecutions under Criminal syndicalism laws ensued. The California Criminal Syndicalism Act of 1919 alone, only five years after its enactment, was responsible for over 500 arrests and 164 convictions.\n\nThis act was upheld by the United States Supreme Court on May 16, 1927 in the \"Whitney v. California\" case. The power of law against criminal syndicalism began to falter by the 1930s as the courts began to overturn convictions as either being no true threat to the US or by declaring the laws to be too vague or broad. One such example was the court's overturning of the conviction of Dirk DeJonge due to protesting the police brutality in the longshoreman’s strike, as violating Oregon's criminal syndicalism law.\n\nOn February 19, 1917, the criminal syndicalism bill was introduced into the Idaho state legislature.\n\nBusinesses which stood to lose the most at the hands of the IWW, including lumber and mining interests, lobbied for the statute’s enactment. In March 1917, the Idaho state government enacted the statute. The Idaho criminal syndicalism bill served as a prototype for many other similar bills passed in various state legislatures in the following four years.\n\nInitially, the rhetoric behind criminal syndicalism laws appealed strictly to business interests. After the United States entered the World War I, then Governor of Idaho Moses Alexander instilled nationalist rhetoric into the public discourse of the law while referring to the IWW’s opposition against United States’ participation in the war.\n\nIn 1925, the Idaho legislature enacted a bill which outlawed non-violent attempts of sabotage; \"work done in an improper manner, slack work, waste of property, and loitering at work\" became illegal acts. Organized labor opposed the amendment because the expanded definition of sabotage might be applied against recognized trade union practices.\n\nSeveral Supreme Court rulings later limited the applicability of criminal syndicalism laws in Idaho, and criminal syndicalism laws in Idaho became a dead issue.\n\nCriminal syndicalism in California was defined as \"any doctrine or precept advocating . . . the commission of crime, sabotage . . . or unlawful acts of force and violence . . . as a means of accomplishing a change in industrial ownership or control, or effecting any political change.” \nKnowingly associating oneself with a group which advocates, teaches, or aids and abed criminal syndicalism could also lead to criminal liability under the California statute.\n\nViolators could be punished by up to fourteen years in jail.\n\nThe bill’s enactment came after a series of events undermining IWW’s public image.\n\nOn July 22, 1916, a bomb exploded in the Preparedness Day parade in San Francisco. It led to the arrests of Warren K Billings and Thomas Mooney – both of whom were associated with militant labor movement – and two others. The San Francisco public responded with an uproar.\n\nFresno and Riverside agricultural strikes took place in 1917, months preceding the California criminal syndicalism bill’s first introduction.\n\nThe first attempt of inducting the criminal syndicalism bill into the California law took place in 1917. The bill was a copy of the Idaho statute. Legislators found the term “sabotage” in the bill ambiguous and did not pass the bill.\n\nIn the same year, the federal government increased crackdowns against IWW on suspicion of the organization’s financial ties with foreign hostiles. The Department of Justice conducted raids on IWW headquarters across the country, including bases in San Francisco, Los Angeles and Fresno.\n\nIn addition to the protests, IWW was accused of sabotaging Fresno famers by burning hay stacks and covering raisins with dirt. The Department of Justice opened its Fresno branch in response. California State Federation of Labor also issued a condemnation of IWW. These events coincided with the bombing of the governor’s residence at Sacramento, which led to arrests of IWW members. The press began to pose a negative attitude towards IWW.\n\nFrom 1917-19, tension between capital and labor grew. Strikes and IWW activities in key wartime industries increased. The California public invoked a patriotic sentiment and saw IWW as an enemy.\n\nIn January 1919, Senator William Kehoe made the second introduction of the criminal syndicalism bill in California. The introduction came five days after the trial of the Governor’s residence bombing, possibly to drown out opposition to the bill.\n\nGovernor William Stephens recommended measures to check IWW propaganda in the bill. Legislators included his proposed amendment in the final bill.\n\nThe proposed bill would outlaw labor organization which conduct strikes or boycotts with the intent of changing industrial ownership and control or causing any political change.\n\nRepresentatives of organized labor, while supportive of the bill’s intent to reduce IWW influences, believed the bill could be used to imprison labor leaders should strikes or boycotts be used in industrial disputes. Labor leaders proposed an amendment which defined the punishable offense more definitely. The amendment failed to pass.\n\nGovernor Stephens signed the bill containing his proposed clause into law on April 30, 1919.\n\nThe defense by the IWW's General Defense Committee in the case of Fiske v. Kansas resulted in a critically important 1924 Supreme Court ruling which led to the decline of criminal syndicalism laws as a factor in legislative anti-union initiatives.\n\nIn 1924, Kansas' state criminal syndicalism law was challenged by a Supreme Court ruling in the case of Fiske v. Kansas, which would become critically important in the future of legal battles over freedom of speech, and which was an early case supported by the American Civil Liberties Union. The ruling overturned the conviction of Harold B. Fiske, an organizer affiliated with the Industrial Workers of the World's Agricultural Workers Industrial Union.\n\nThe states who still have criminal syndicalism statutes in 2013 are:\n\nMoreover, \n\nSome argued that criminal syndicalism laws violated the United States Constitution.\n\nIn \"Whitney v. California\", 274 U.S. 357 (1927), the Supreme Court held that California's law suppressing speech advocating criminal acts against the state did not violate the right to freedom of speech as enumerated in the First Amendment, since it encouraged a bad tendency in listeners.\n\nHowever, that holding \"Whitney\" was overturned in \"Brandenburg v. Ohio\", 395 U.S. 444 (1969), where the Court replaced the \"bad tendency\" test with \"imminent lawless action\" test. Since the Ohio Criminal Syndicalism law criminalized speech that did not incite imminent lawless action, the Ohio law violated the Freedom of Speech clause of the First Amendment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1697541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1697541", "title": "Emancipation of minors", "text": "Emancipation of minors\n\nEmancipation of minors is a legal mechanism by which a minor is freed from control by their parents or guardians, and the parents or guardians are freed from any and all responsibility toward the child. Children are considered legally incompetent to enter into contracts and to handle their own affairs. Emancipation overrides that presumption and allows emancipated children to legally make certain decisions on their own behalf.\n\nEven without a court proceeding, some jurisdictions will find a minor to be emancipated for purposes of making a decision in the absence of the minor's parents or guardians. For example, a child in most jurisdictions can enter into a binding contract to procure their own basic needs. However, in such cases where a child's needs are not provided for by a parent, a child will often be deemed a ward of the state and have a court appointed guardian placed in the role of the parent.\n\nIn Roman law the father of the extended household, the \"pater familias\", exercised autocratic authority through \"patria potestas\" over his extended family, including his wife, his children and his slaves. Such rights persisted through feudal and English common law, assigning most people the status of personal property (chattel). In common law, emancipation is the freeing of someone from this control. It grants the emancipated the ability to legally engage in civil actions, and frees the former owner of liability.\n\nIn common-law jurisdictions, chattel slavery was abolished during the 19th century and married women were given independent rights during the 19th and at the start of the 20th century. Later during the 20th century, common law jurisdictions split over both children's rights and youth rights; in some, such as the USA, a traditional father's control became a right to shared parental control and emancipation remained a remedy for mature minors, but in others, for example England, the idea of absolute control over minors has been repudiated; parent's responsibilities are emphasised and children's rights promoted. In these jurisdictions, the rights of minors to act on their own behalf are granted on a case-by-case basis if a minor can show the capacity and maturity to handle them, and juvenile emancipation from control is deemed unnecessary.\n\nIt isn't as simple as all-or-nothing emancipation in some places and gradually acquired rights in others. For example, in the US minors have some rights to consent to medical procedures without parental consent or emancipation, under the doctrine of the mature minor. In England a minor may still not own and administer land. Also in any jurisdiction statute law may limit action due to insufficient age, such as the purchase of alcohol or the right to drive on public roads, without regard to capacity.\n\nThe rights of the child described in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child 1989 are recognized and ratified the world over, except within the USA, which may explain why even though other jurisdictions recognize parental control and juvenile emancipation, nowhere else is the issue of emancipation so important.\n\nCommon law countries that retain the idea of control and emancipation include USA, Canada and South Africa. Countries that have followed the route to gradual civic rights for adolescents include England, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand. In these countries emancipation is unavailable. Statutory provision for juvenile emancipation has spread outside of common law jurisdictions, for example Brazil.\n\nIn other countries some aspects of emancipation are in force. The right to engage in civil acts as an adult are granted after marriage, as is the freedom of liability for the parent. In Argentina, where there is no lower age limit on marriage, child marriage is sometimes used as a mechanism for emancipation. The rights granted in such cases may not be as full as common-law emancipation.\n\nExpress: When the parent(s) or legal guardian agrees with the minor that the minor can leave home, become self-sustaining, and control their own wages and assets. Courts may review. For example, elements of coercion can void the emancipation, so if a child agrees to leave because their life has been made intolerable through fault, the court may decree the parents still owe a duty of support.\n\nImplied: When circumstances dictate that a child has become emancipated, even though no explicit agreement was made. Common reasons include\nCourt Order: A court may declare a minor to be emancipated when deciding a relevant case or following a petition of emancipation. Not all jurisdictions that support emancipation allow a direct petition to the courts, for example in Canada only Quebec does. Even in those jurisdictions that do, the court may not allow a minor to file on their own behalf (as they are not yet emancipated), nor may they directly instruct a lawyer to act on their behalf. Instead they petition through an adult next friend. Courts decide in the minor's best interest: between parental control, care through child services (including fostering or adoption), and emancipation.\n\nPartial: A minor may be considered emancipated for some reasons and not others. A grant of partial emancipation may, for example, be given to homeless youths to allow them to consent to state housing programs. Marriage, incarceration, living apart, pregnancy and parenthood may automatically confer some of the rights of emancipation, particularly health consent and privacy in US states.\n\nAlthough allowed for in common law, some of these methods could be almost impossible to use in practice in a particular jurisdiction, especially if it has no relevant statute or case law.\n\nMinors are under the control of their parents or legal guardians until they attain the age of majority, at which point they become legal adults. In most states this is upon turning 18 years of age. However, in special circumstances, minors can be freed from control by their guardian before they reach the age of majority.\n\nParents have a number of legal duties while bringing up their biological child (e.g., a fiduciary duty to act in the best interest of the child) . Failure to meet these requirements can result in the state taking civil and/or criminal action against the child's parent(s). When the \"parent\" is not the biological parent of the child, such as a stepchild or an informal adoption (not adopted by court order), the matter is more complex; various legal doctrines, as well as statutes in many states may impose various support obligations on step-parents.. Emancipation terminates these parental obligations and duties of support.\n\nWhile parents may have expectations of particular conduct or contributions from their children, parents may not condition the provision of basic necessities upon the child conducting or contributing. However they may condition other privileges on particular conduct or contribution by the child. When a child fails to conduct themselves according to rules which ensure their basic safety and the safety of those around them, a parent has recourse to petition a court to declare the child a \"person in need of supervision\", which essentially transfers guardianship to the state, who in turn subjects the individual to supervision in the form of a group home or in foster care monitored by an officer of the court. This does not necessarily discharge parents from their duty of financial support. \n\nChildren who have not reached the age of majority are generally are not able to legally own property, enter into contracts (including enrolment contracts to university), or make certain life altering decisions for themselves, such as the right to marry or to join the armed forces. Such decisions can, in some cases, be made with parental consent (e.g., marriage of child over age 16), and in other cases are proscribed or require a judicial consent (e.g., marriage of child under 13). A legal guardian (including a parent) may dispose of the property (including bank accounts) of the child, generally for the benefit of the child, including the provision of basic necessities. Wages which a child earns may be considered the child's property or may be required to be turned-over to their parents to satisfy parental claims for costs associated with discharging parental responsibilities, depending on the laws of the relevant jurisdiction. \n\nUpon emancipation, a minor child will no longer be subject to claims by their parent / guardian for contribution out of their wages, and will be granted full authority and legal ownership of their property and bank accounts. They would also gain legal capacity to enter into binding contracts, and have authority to marry or join the armed forces. \n\nThe exact laws and protocols for obtaining emancipation vary from state to state. In most states, minors must file a petition with the family court in the applicable jurisdiction, formally requesting emancipation and citing reasons it is in their best interest to be emancipated. These minors must prove financial self-sufficiency. In some states, free legal aid is available to minors seeking emancipation, through children law centers. This can be a valuable resource for minors trying to create a convincing emancipation petition. Students are able to stay with a guardian if necessary.\n\nEmancipation is not easily granted because of the subjectivity and narrowness of the definition of \"best interest.\" Some minors have been victims of abuse. In most cases, the state's department of child services will be notified and the child placed in foster care. Others are minors who are seeking emancipation for reasons such as being dissatisfied with their parents' or guardians' rules.\n\nLaws vary by state. In California, a minor cannot use the excuse of not obeying the parent's reasonable and proper orders or directions of parents, and that minor could become a ward of the court, which is different than emancipation.\n\nWhere a statute of limitations for bringing a legal action is tolled while a person is a minor, emancipation will usually end that tolling.\n\nBased on federal and state laws, those whose mental disability is so severe that they are incapable of caring for themselves may not necessarily be considered or legally viewed as emancipated, even though they have attained the age of majority. That may or may not affect legal matters related to such things as insurance benefits, SSI, SSDI, wills, tax obligations to them and their caregivers, medical decisions, religious choices, residential and other accommodations, etc. due to their non-emancipated status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13290399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13290399", "title": "Expanded clay aggregate", "text": "Expanded clay aggregate\n\nLightweight expanded clay aggregate (LECA) or expanded clay (exclay) is a light weight aggregate made by heating clay to around in a rotary kiln. The yielding gases expand the clay by thousands of small bubbles forming during heating producing a honeycomb structure. LECA has an approximately round or potato shape due to circular movement in the kiln, and is available in different sizes and densities. LECA is used to make lightweight concrete products and other uses.\n\nLECA was developed about 1917 in Kansas City, Missouri, to the production in a rotary kiln of a patented expanded aggregate known as Haydite which was used in the construction of USS Selma, an ocean-going ship launched in 1919. Following in the USA was the development of a series of aggregates known as Gravelite, Perlite, Rocklite, etc. In Europe, LECA commenced in Denmark, Germany, Netherlands, UK and Middle East.\n\nLECA is usually produced in different sizes and densities from up to ,commonly 0-4 mm, 4-10 mm, 10-25 mm and densities of 250, 280, 330, and 510 kg/m3. LECA \"boulder\" is the biggest size of LECA with 100–500 mm size and 500 kg/m3 density.\n\nSome characteristics of LECA are: lightness, thermal insulation by low conductivity coefficient (as low as 0.097 W/mK), soundproofing by high acoustic resistance, moisture impermeable, incompressible under permanent pressure and gravity loads, non–decomposition against severe condition, fire resistant, Ph of nearly 7, freezing and melting resistance, easy movement and transportation, lightweight backfill and finishing, reduction of construction dead load and earthquake lateral load, perfect sweet soil for plants, material for drainage and filtration.\n\nCommon uses are in concrete blocks, concrete slabs, geotechnical fillings, lightweight concrete, water treatment, hydroponics, aquaponics and hydroculture.\n\nLECA is a versatile material, and is utilized in an increasing number of applications. In the construction industry, it is used extensively in the production of lightweight concrete, blocks and precast or incast structural elements (panels, partitions, bricks and light tiles). LECA used in structural backfill against foundations, retaining walls, bridge abutments etc., in addition it can reduce earth pressure by 75% compared with conventional materials, and also increases ground stability while reducing settlement and land deformation. LECA can drain the surface water and groundwater to control ground water pressure. LECA grout can be used for flooring (finishing) and roofing with thermal and sound insulation.\n\nLECA is also used in water treatment facilities for the filtration and purification of municipal wastewater and drinking water as well as in other filtering processes, including those for dealing with industrial wastewater and fish farms. \n\nLECA has uses in agriculture and landscapes. It can alter soil mechanics. It is used as a growing medium in hydroponics systems, and blended with other growing mediums such as soil and peat to improve drainage, retain water during periods of drought, insulate roots during frost and provide roots with increased oxygen levels promoting very vigorous growth. LECA can be mixed with heavy soil to improve its aeration and drainage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32871076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32871076", "title": "GÜFA", "text": "GÜFA\n\nGÜFA (Gesellschaft zur Übernahme und Wahrnehmung von Filmaufführungsrechten mbH) is a German copyright collective of pornographic film production companies and copyright holders. As a copyright collective, GÜFA performs collective rights management for its member companies, such as by enforcing film distribution rights and copyright. It also endeavors to influence German law to the advantage of its member companies. The organisation is headquartered in Düsseldorf.\n\nGÜFA operates in the Netherlands as GÜFA Nederland, and cooperates with several comparable organisations in other European countries: V.A.M. (Verwertungsgesellschaft für Audiovisuelle Medien) of Austria, SIA ATBALSS of Latvia, EGEDA Ciudad de la Imagen of Spain, and Intergram of the Czech Republic.\n\nPornographic films and videos registered with GÜFA must bear its seal on their packaging. Furthermore, the GÜFA seal must be included before the film’s or video’s opening credits.\n\n"}
{"id": "51589323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51589323", "title": "Heidelberg Journal of International Law", "text": "Heidelberg Journal of International Law\n\nThe Heidelberg Journal of International Law () is an academic journal in public international law, comparative law and European law. It was established in 1929 and is published by C.H. Beck on behalf of the Max Planck Institute for Comparative Public Law and International Law. It is regarded as one of the world's leading journals in public international law. Originally published in German, it currently publishes articles in both English and German.\n"}
{"id": "521747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=521747", "title": "Highland Land League", "text": "Highland Land League\n\nThe first Highland Land League () emerged as a distinct political force in Scotland during the 1880s, with its power base in the country's Highlands and Islands. It was known also as the Highland Land Law Reform Association and the Crofters' Party. It was consciously modelled on the Irish Land League.\n\nThe Highland Land League was successful in getting Members of Parliament (MPs) elected in 1885 (in the 1885 general election). As a parliamentary force, it was dissipated by the Crofters' Act of 1886 and by the way the Liberal Party was seen to adopt Land League objectives. The Land League also used direct action protest tactics and the use of these tactics was to reappear in the early 20th century. The protests included rent strikes and land occupations (which came to be known as land raids) by crofters, cottars and squatters. Perhaps the Land League's best known slogan was \"Is treasa tuath na tighearna\". This Gaelic saying or proverb is usually translated as \"The people are mightier than a lord\".\n\nBy the 1880s the common people or peasantry of the Highlands and Islands had been cleared from large areas of their ancestral lands, the clearances (known as the Highland Clearances) having occurred during the decades following the Battle of Culloden in 1746. Many emigrated to Canada, the USA, as well as Australia and other British colonies. Many who did not emigrate were crammed into crofting townships on very small areas of land where they were very vulnerable to abuse and exploitation by their landlords. Many lacked even crofts of their own and became cottars and squatters on the crofts of other people. Landlords turned most of the land over to use as sheep farms and hunting parks called deer forests. In addition, in the 1880s, the Highlands and Islands were recently ravaged by the potato famine of the mid 19th century. The 1880s were also a time, however, of growing democracy and of government which was increasingly responsive to public opinion, particularly after the electoral reform Act of 1884. As many crofters in the Scottish Highlands newly qualified as £10 occupiers, the Act empowered Scottish Gaels to form the Crofters' Party and Highland Land League.\n\nIn the early 1880s, in terms of gaining sympathetic public opinion, crofters were protesting very effectively, with rent strikes and land raids, about their lack of secure tenure of land and their severely reduced access to land. The government responded in 1883 with a commission of enquiry headed by Francis Napier, and the Napier Commission published recommendations in 1884. Napier's report fell a long way short of addressing crofters' demands, and it stimulated a new wave of protests.\n\nThe earlier protests had been largely confined to Skye. In 1884 protest action was much more widespread, many thousands of crofters became members of the Highland Land League and among MPs elected in the United Kingdom general election, 1885 there were Crofters' Party MPs elected by the constituencies of Argyllshire (Donald Horne Macfarlane), Inverness-shire (Charles Fraser-Mackintosh), Ross and Cromarty (Roderick Macdonald) and Caithness (Gavin Brown Clark). At Wick Burghs John Macdonald Cameron was also allied with the Crofters Party. A year later Parliament created the Crofters Act.\n\nThe Act applied to croft tenure in an area which is now recognisable as a definition of the \"Highlands and Islands\": that of the ancient counties of Argyll, Inverness-shire, Ross and Cromarty, Sutherland, Caithness, Orkney and Shetland. (The name is used now as a name for an electoral area of the Scottish Parliament: please see Highlands and Islands). The Act granted security of tenure of existing crofts and established the first Crofters Commission (The same name was given to a different body in 1955). The Crofters Commission had rent-fixing powers. Rents were generally reduced and 50% or more of outstanding arrears were cancelled. The Act failed however to address the issue of severely limited access to land, and crofters renewed their protest actions. At the same time there was a shift in the political climate: William Gladstone's Liberal government fell from power; the new Conservative government was much less sympathetic to the plight of crofters and much more willing to use troops to quell protests. The Liberal Party appeared to adopt and champion Land League objectives and, as a distinct parliamentary force, the Land League fragmented during the 1890s. On the issue of access to land, therefore, little real progress was to be made until after the First World War.\n\nSome resources were put into development of the communications infrastructure of the Highlands and Islands (roads, railways, and harbours) and, in the early years of the 20th century the Congested Districts Board was able to push through the establishment of new crofting townships on Skye and in the Strathnaver area of Sutherland. The Congested Districts Board was created in 1897 and can be seen as a precursor to the Highlands and Islands Development Board, which is known now as Highland and Islands Enterprise (HIE).\n\nA new Liberal government, elected in 1906 (in the 1906 general election), abolished the Congested Districts Board and created the Board of Agriculture for Scotland. The new board's principal task was supposed to be that of pressing forward with land reform in the Highlands and Islands. It was largely ineffective. By 1913 crofters were again staging land raids.\n\nMeanwhile, in Glasgow, in 1909, a second Highland Land League was formed as a political party. This organisation was a broadly left-wing group that sought the \"restoration of deer forests to public ownership\", \"abolition of plural farms\" and the \"nationalisation of the land\". Also they resolved to \"resolutely defend crofters facing eviction by their landlords\" and they \"supported home rule for Scotland\".\n\nDuring the First World War (1914 to 1918) politicians made lavish promises about reform which would follow the war, and of course many crofters lost their lives in the war itself. After the war the words of politicians did not translate into immediate action, but crofters returning from the war were in no mood to accept government inaction. Land raids began again. To set this Scottish Highland political radicalism in context, the 1916 Easter Rising was recent history in Ireland, as were the Liberal February Revolution and the Communist October Revolution in Russia, not to mention the socialist Kiel mutiny, which helped end the First World War and bring about the German Revolution. With these other events in mind, the Highland Land League, although radical, were positively gentle in their politics compared to radicals in other countries around the same time.\n\nIn August 1918 the new Land League had affiliated with the Labour Party, with four candidates for the 1918 general election being joint League-Labour. By the 1920s they had fully merged with Labour, under the promise of autonomy for Scotland were Labour to gain power in the forthcoming years, which however remained unfulfilled, presumably at least partly because although Labour succeeded in forming a government, they failed to gain a majority in the House of Commons.\n\nLand League members were then key to the formation of the Scottish National Party in 1934. When faced with new land raids the government responded by giving the Board of Agriculture the money and powers to do something like what had been promised. The Board's work was assisted by a downturn in the profitability of sheep farming and, by the late 1920s, perhaps 50,000 acres (200 km²) of arable land and 750,000 acres (3,000 km²) of hill pasture had been given over to establishing new crofts. Most of the new crofts were in the Hebrides, the area where Gaelic best survives into the present day. There at least it became possible to claim that the effects of the clearances had been largely reversed. Crofters benefited also in parts of Caithness, Sutherland, Shetland, and various other localities.\n\nCrofting is still a distinct lifestyle today, and the Scottish Crofting Federation continues to represent crofters.\n\n"}
{"id": "37634909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37634909", "title": "In-chambers opinion", "text": "In-chambers opinion\n\nAn in-chambers opinion is an opinion by a single justice or judge of a multi-member appellate court, rendered on an issue that the court's rules or procedures allow a single member of the court to decide. The judge is said to decide the matter \"in chambers\" because the decision can be issued from the justice's chambers without a formal court proceeding.\n\nEach Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States is assigned as the \"Circuit Justice\" to one or more of the 13 judicial circuits. The role of the Circuit Justice has changed over time, but has included addressing certain types of applications arising within the Circuit.\n\nUnder current practice, the Circuit Justice for each circuit is responsible for dealing with certain types of applications that, under the Court's rules, may be addressed by a single Justice. These include emergency applications for stays (including requests for stays of execution in death-penalty cases) and injunctions pursuant to the All Writs Act arising from cases within that circuit, as well as more routine matters such as requests for extensions of time. In the past, Circuit Justices also sometimes ruled on motions for bail in criminal cases, writs of habeas corpus, and applications for writs of error granting permission to appeal.\n\nMost often, a Justice will dispose of such an application by simply noting that it is \"Granted\" or \"Denied,\" or by entering a standard form of order unaccompanied by a written opinion. However, a Justice may elect to author an opinion explaining his or her reasons for granting or denying relief. Such an opinion is referred to as an \"in-chambers opinion\" or an \"opinion in chambers.\" On occasion, Justices have also issued single-Justice in-chambers opinions on other matters, such as explaining why they have chosen not to recuse themselves from participating in a particular case before the Court.\n\nThe Justices author and publish fewer in-chambers opinions today than they did during the twentieth century; it has been rare in recent years for there to be more than one or two such opinions published per term.\n\nSince 1969, in-chambers opinions that a Justice wishes to have published have appeared in the Court's official reporter, the \"United States Reports\". They appear in a separate section at the back of each volume that contains one or more such opinions. Before 1969, in-chambers opinions did not appear in the \"U.S. Reports\", although they were occasionally published in other reporters or in legal periodicals. During the 1990s, the Supreme Court Clerk's Office compiled a collection of in-chambers opinions contained in the Court's records and other sources. The collection was subsequently published in a three-volume edition by the Green Bag Press, and is supplemented from time to time.\n\nThe rules of some other multi-member American appellate courts sometimes authorize a single judge or justice to take certain actions. Sometimes these actions are procedural in nature, such as granting extensions of time or granting or denying permission to file an amicus curiae brief. In other courts, the powers of a single judge can be more extensive; for example, in the New York Court of Appeals, a single judge rules on a defendant's motion for leave to appeal in a criminal case, and his or her decision is final.\n\nIt is relatively unusual for single judges or justices of lower courts to issue opinions explaining their rulings on these matters, but when they do, the designation \"in chambers\" is sometimes used.\n\n"}
{"id": "29239984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29239984", "title": "Intellectual property protection of typefaces", "text": "Intellectual property protection of typefaces\n\nTypefaces, fonts, and their glyphs raise intellectual property considerations in copyright, trademark, design patent, and related laws. The copyright status of a typeface—and any font file that describes it digitally—varies between jurisdictions. In the United States, the shapes of typefaces are not eligible for copyright, though the shapes may be protected by design patent (although these are rarely applied for, the first US design patent ever awarded was for a typeface). Typefaces can be protected in other countries, including the UK, Germany, and France, by industrial design protections that are similar to copyright or design patent in that they protect the abstract shapes. Additionally, in the US and in some other countries, computer \"fonts\"—the \"digital instantiation\" of the shapes as vector outlines—may be protected by copyright on the computer code that produces them. The name of a typeface may also be protected as a trademark.\n\nIn 1981, West-Germany passed the \"Gesetz zum Wiener Abkommen vom 12. Juni 1973 über den Schutz typographischer Schriftzeichen und ihre internationale Hinterlegung\" (\"Law on the 1973 Vienna Agreement for the Protection of Type Faces and their International Deposit\", also simply known as \"Schriftzeichengesetz\" or \"Type Faces Law\"), according to which a typeface is initially protected under German copyright law for 10 years from first publication on. After the end of this initial ten-year period, the rights holder may pay a fee to prolong copyright status for additional 15 years only once. According to German law, every typeface thus ends up in the public domain after no more than 25 years from first publication onwards, after which it is also free to be digitized into a computer font, which in itself holds a much higher copyright protection status by German law than analogue typefaces due to being legally classified as a computer program.\n\nThe \"name\" of a typeface can separately be registered as a trademark (\"Wortmarke\") for a fee, which like a digital font also holds much higher copyright protection status than an analogue typeface itself. If a typeface's name is trademarked, no other typeface may bear the same name, not even digital clones of the analogue typeface.\n\nIrish copyright law covers typefaces. Like the United Kingdom law (see below), it allows for using the typeface in the ordinary course of printing. The term of protection is 15 years from first publication.\n\nIn Japan, typefaces have been held not to be covered by copyright, on the ground that they function primarily as a means of communicating information, rather than an appeal to aesthetic appreciation.\n\nIn Russia the legal vacuum with soviet intellectual legacy combined with absence of specific law regulation of the fonts – created the opposite situation, where all typefaces have copyright and payments can be collected by current law. According to the Russian Yur'yev legal bureau, at least 99 legal threats by Lebedev's design studio have been about the use of studio made typefaces in Russia without payment.\n\nIn Switzerland, there is no specific law for the protection of typefaces. So far, the jurisdiction has been very reluctant in admitting legal protection of any sort to typefaces. However, the denied protection is not imperative: in theory, typefaces could be protected based on both copyright and design law. Additionally, the name of a typeface can be protected by a trademark.\n\nIn 1916, England recognized copyright in typefaces, but protected only the design with all the letters in their particular order. The current United Kingdom copyright statute, enacted in 1989, expressly refers to copyrights in typeface designs. English law does consider that fonts are subject to copyright. However, this only covers typefaces for 25 years from first publication, and does not cover their usage by typographers.\n\nTypefaces cannot be protected by copyright in the United States (Code of Federal Regulations, Ch 37, Sec. 202.1(e); \"Eltra Corp. vs. Ringer\"). The idea that typefaces (rather than fonts, which are computer software) cannot be copyrighted in the United States is black letter law. 37 C.F.R. § 202.1(e). Under U.S. law, typefaces and their letter forms or glyphs are considered utilitarian objects whose public utility outweighs any private interest in protecting their creative elements. However, there is a distinction between a font and a typeface. The machine code used to display a stylized typeface (called a font) is protectable as copyright. In 1992, the US Copyright Office determined that digital outline fonts had elements that could be protected as software. Since that time, the Office has accepted registration of copyright for digital vector fonts, such as PostScript Type 1, TrueType, and OpenType format files.\n\nThis is part of the basis of the 2017 lawsuit brought by Berthold LLC against Target Corporation for its alleged unlawful use of its fonts. \"Berthold v. Target\", no. 1:17-cv-07180 (N.D. Ill.). It is also part of the basis for an unpublished 1998 opinion by Judge Whyte in \"Adobe Systems, Inc. v. Southern Software, Inc.\", finding that Adobe Software held a valid copyright for its Utopia \"font\" and that it had been infringed by the defendant(s) in that case. \n\nHistorically, the unavailability of protection for typefaces reaches back to at least 1976. In 1988, the Copyright Office published a report titled, \"Policy Decision on Copyrightability of Digitized Typefaces\", which explains: \"The decision in \"Eltra Corp. v. Ringer\" clearly comports with the intention of the Congress. Whether typeface designs should be protected by copyright was considered and specifically rejected by Congress in passing the Copyright Act of 1976. The 1976 House Report states: A \"typeface\" can be defined as a set of letters, numbers, or other symbolic characters, whose forms are related by repeating design elements consistently applied in a notational system, and are intended to be embodied in articles whose intrinsic utilitarian function is for use in composing text or other cognizable combinations of characters. The Committee does not regard the design of typeface, as thus defined, to be a copyrightable \"pictorial, graphic, or sculptural work\" within the meaning of this bill and the application of the dividing line in section 101 [H.R. Reg. No. 1476, 94th Cong., 2nd Sess 5 (1976)].\n\nIn addition to rejecting copyright protection for typeface designs, Congress deferred a decision on a more limited form of protection under proposed ornamental design legislation. Title II of the 1976 copyright revision bill as passed by the Senate could have protected typeface designs, but the House of Representatives had doubts about this limited form of protection. Consequently, only copyright revision passed. [H.R. Reg. No. 1476 at 50 and 55]. Design legislation has yet to be enacted, and Congress has chosen not to include typeface designs within the Copyright Act's definition of pictorial, graphic or sculptural works.\"\n\nAccording to section 906.4 of the \"Compendium of U.S. Copyright Office Practices\", typography and calligraphy are also not copyrightable in themselves.\n\nTypefaces may be protected by a design patent in many countries (either automatically, by registration, or by some combination thereof). A design patent is the strongest system of protection, but the most uncommon. It is the only US legal precedent that protects the actual design (the design of the individual shapes of the letters) of the font. A prominent example is the European Union, where the automatic protection (without registration) expires after three years and can be extended (by registration) up to 25 years.\n\nIn 1981, Germany passed a special extension (\"Schriftzeichengesetz\") to the design patent law (\"Geschmacksmustergesetz\") for protecting typeface designs. This also permits typefaces to be registered as designs.\n\nThe names of particular fonts may be protected by a trademark. This is the weakest form of protection because only the font name itself is being protected. For example, the letters that make up the trademarked font Palatino can be copied but the name must be changed.\n\nURW++ was involved in a 1995 lawsuit with Monotype Corporation for cloning their fonts and naming them with a name starting with the same three letters. As typeface shapes themselves cannot be copyrighted in the United States, the lawsuit centered on trademark infringement. A US court decided that Monotype's trademarks were \"fanciful\" and did not have descriptive value of the actual products. However it also decided that URW was confusing the public deliberately because \"the purloining of the first part of a well-known trademark and the appending of it to a worthless suffix is a method of trademark poaching long condemned by the courts.\" The court issued an injunction preventing URW from using their chosen names.\n\nThe basic standard for copyrighted digital font use is that a license is required for each individual font used on a computer, or in the case of businesses, one per entity. Under the license fonts are typically licensed only for use on one computer. These End User License Agreements (EULAs) generally state that fonts may only be used on machines that have a valid license. These fonts cannot be shared by multiple computers or given to others. These licenses can be obtained in three ways: directly from the font authors (e.g., Adobe), as part of a larger software package (e.g., Microsoft Office), or through purchasing or downloading the font from an authorized outlet.\n\nSuch licenses typically only apply to the font file itself (which is a computer program), and not to the shape of the typeface, which may be subject to a design patent.\n\nOpen-source font licenses include the General Public License with the Font Exception, the SIL Open Font License, and the Ubuntu Font License.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1995, Bitstream Inc. and four other type companies successfully sued SWFTE for copyright infringement. SWFTE was using special computer programs to take other type founders' fonts, convert them and give them new names. The case focused on the fact that SWFTE had used Bitstream's software to create these new fonts.\n\n\"Adobe Systems, Inc. v. Southern Software, Inc.\" helped clear the distinction between intellectual property protection for a font versus a typeface. SSI had used the FontMonger program to copy and rename fonts from Adobe and others. They assumed safety from prosecution because, though they had directly copied the points that define the shapes from Adobe's fonts, they had made slight adjustments to all the points so they were not technically identical. Nevertheless, it was determined that the computer code had been copied.\n\nIn , Font Brothers filed a lawsuit against Hasbro, claiming that Hasbro used the “Generation B” font for its My Little Pony product without permission. Font Brothers claimed that Hasbro had refused to comply with their licensing request. They are also claiming substantial damages, from loss of revenue for this misuse, and requesting a jury trial to resolve this matter.\n\nMost recently, Berthold LLC sued Target Corporation for its alleged breach of a font license agreement. \"Berthold LLC v. Target Corp.\", No. 1:17-cv-07180 (N.D. Ill.). Target recognized the distinction between a font and a typeface, and what is protectable under U.S. copyright laws. (See docket entry no. 21). \n\n"}
{"id": "1583938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1583938", "title": "International Plant Protection Convention", "text": "International Plant Protection Convention\n\nThe International Plant Protection Convention (IPPC) is a 1951 multilateral treaty overseen by the Food and Agriculture Organization that aims to secure coordinated, effective action to prevent and to control the introduction and spread of pests of plants and plant products. The Convention extends beyond the protection of cultivated plants to the protection of natural flora and plant products. It also takes into consideration both direct and indirect damage by pests, so it includes weeds.\n\nThe Convention created a governing body consisting of each party, known as the Commission on Phytosanitary Measures, which oversees the implementation of the Convention. As of August 2017, the Convention has 183 parties, which includes 180 United Nations member states, the Cook Islands, Niue, and the European Union. The Convention is recognized by the World Trade Organization's (WTO) Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures (the SPS Agreement) as the only international standard setting body for plant health.\n\nWhile the IPPC's primary focus is on plants and plant products moving in international trade, the Convention also covers research materials, biological control organisms, germplasm banks, containment facilities, food aid, emergency aid and anything else that can act as a vector for the spread of plant pests – for example, containers, packaging materials, soil, vehicles, vessels and machinery.\n\nThe IPPC was created by member countries of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. The IPPC places emphasis on three core areas: international standard setting, information exchange and capacity development for the implementation of the IPPC and associated international phytosanitary standards. The Secretariat of the IPPC is housed at FAO headquarters in Rome, Italy, and is responsible for the coordination of core activities under the IPPC work program.\n\nIn recent years the Commission of Phytosanitary Measures of the IPPC has developed a strategic framework with the objectives of:\n\nBy focusing the Convention's efforts on these objectives, the Commission on Phytosanitary Measures of the IPPC intends to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31311995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31311995", "title": "Kinetic military action", "text": "Kinetic military action\n\nKinetic military action is a euphemism for military action involving active warfare, usually including lethal force. \"Kinetic\" was used as a retronymic euphemism for military action in \"Bush at War,\" a 2002 book by Bob Woodward. Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld used the words \"kinetic\" and \"non-kinetic\" often. The phrase is now also commonly used as a contrast to cyber warfare.\n\n\"Kinetic military action\" was used by White House aide Ben Rhodes on March 23, 2011 to describe U.S. military action in Libya:\nThis use was noted by news media: \"'Kinetic military action' is still hell\" and \"Kinetic Military Action No More\".\n\nU.S. Department of Defense used \"kinetic operations\" on a webpage about \"Operation Inherent Resolve\". It contained an interactive graphic titled \"AIRSTRIKES IN IRAQ AND SYRIA\" and captioned \"... operations related to ISIL since kinetic operations started on Aug. 8, 2014 ...\".\n\nFebruary 11, 2015 President Obama used \"kinetic strike\" in a letter to Congress. He wanted, among other things, Congress to \"authorize the use of U.S. forces [against ISIL] in ... [ground] missions to enable kinetic strikes\". The phrase was not used in the draft resolution proposed to Congress.\n\nDecember 2, 2015 Secretary of State John Kerry spoke after attending a series of NATO meetings in Brussels, “There are various ways in which countries can contribute; they don’t necessarily have to be troops, engaged in kinetic action. There are medical facilities, there are other assets that can be deployed, there is intelligence gathering.” \n\n"}
{"id": "22989682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22989682", "title": "Legal expenses insurance", "text": "Legal expenses insurance\n\nLegal protection insurance (LPI), also known as legal expenses insurance (LEI) or simply legal insurance, is a particular class of insurance which facilitates access to law and justice by providing legal advice and covering legal costs of a dispute, regardless of whether the case is brought by or against the policyholder. Depending on the national rules, legal protection insurers can also represent the policyholder out-of-court or even in-court.\n\nLegal protection insurance has a 100-year history. The concept originated in 1911 when members of the '\"Automobile Club de l’Ouest\"' were offered several additional services among which protection in case of fines or for disputes in front of police courts. This basic legal protection was then extended to traffic accidents and gave rise to the first legal protection insurance policy in France offered by ‘\"La Défense Automobile et Sportive (DAS)\"’ which was founded in 1917. ‘\"La Défense Automobile et Sportive (DAS)\"’ offered legal services and coverage of expenses for legal prosecution to car drivers and athletes.\n\nIn 1928, a motoring club in Germany called the '\"Deutsche Automobil Schutz\"' (D.A.S.) increased membership contributions to create a similar pool to pay for the defence of its members charged with traffic related offences. Members of the general public then enquired about joining the scheme. That is when the idea of an insurance available to the general public became firmly established. At present, D.A.S. Germany is still the largest legal protection insurer in the world, followed by ARAG, another German insurer. Legal protection insurance is today well established in Europe and has been developing beyond. The German market alone has 36% market share worldwide, followed by France with 12%. The European market represents more than 80% of the global legal protection insurance market.\n\nLegal protection insurers cover the costs (e.g. legal fees and expenses of a lawyer) incurred in case of an unforeseen legal matter. These costs usually include lawyer and court fees, witness expenses, translation costs or expert fees. Depending on national law, legal protection insurers also provide legal services and represent policyholders out-of-court or in-court. The policyholder is usually protected for disputes in several areas of law such as contract, labour, consumer and family law (in rare cases including divorce). The premium is generally paid on an annual basis.\n\nThe extent of the cover depends on the type of contract and is defined in the policy terms and conditions. When the policy is sold as part of a home, motor or travel insurance package (i.e. add-on policy) it only covers disputes strictly linked to the purpose of the main cover (e.g. home related claims such as disputes with neighbours or car related disputes in case of a motor legal protection insurance). When legal protection insurance is purchased as a separate and independent insurance product (stand-alone cover) the range of services provided, the extent and scope of the cover are much larger. Sometimes legal protection insurance is offered as a benefit to members of a trade union or association.\n\nIn the European Union precise rules govern legal protection insurance and explicitly define how insurers must organise their business and manage claims. These rules are included in the Solvency II Directive (Articles 198 - 205) \n\nLegal protection insurance should not be confused with the coverage often included in a liability insurance. Liability coverage is designed to protect the policyholder against losses resulting from acts or omissions that are negligent and that result in damage to another person, his/her property or interests. Therefore, the main scope of third party liability insurance is to protect others from the consequences of the policyholder’s wrong-doing. In other words, the third-party liability insurance reimburses the other party’s damages which were caused by a negligent act of the insured. It does not intervene to protect the property and interests of the policyholder, except against being held liable for the other party’s damages. It will also provide legal representation and pay the cost of defense of the policyholder if the policyholder is sued as a result of being involved in an accident because losing the liability claim would be detrimental for the liability insurer since he would have to bear the financial consequences. The liability insurer, however, does not assist the policyholder to seek justice as a plaintiff in case he suffered a damage.\n\nDifferent forms of legal protection insurance exist and have developed depending on the national jurisdictions. Traditionally, legal protection insurance covers unforeseen events as Before-The-Event insurance (BTE). The ‘event’ in this case being the incident triggering the legal action. However, in some countries (e.g. Australia, Canada, and the UK), it is also possible to obtain cover after a legal dispute has been initiated which is described as After-The-Event insurance (ATE). In the US market, legal protection and support is often granted via legal plans or pre-paid legal services which, most of the time, are not an insurance.\n\nThis form of insurance is the most widespread. It covers those wishing to protect themselves against possible future claims and it is purchased before the prospect of any legal dispute. It supports the policyholder either by providing legal advice or even by representing the policyholder in-court or out-of-court. It also covers the costs and expenses of legal proceedings.\n\nATE policies insure legal actions relating to events that have already happened. This insurance covers an already existing dispute where, however, proceedings have not yet started or significant legal costs or disbursements have not been incurred. Should the case fail, ATE insurance protects the insured against the risk of having to pay own expenses and adverse costs. This type of cover is usually only available for disputes having high prospects of success where the insurer is likely to be able to recover his costs from the adverse party. It is available in Australia, Canada, and the UK. In the UK solicitors who take on, for example, personal injury cases on a ‘no win no fee' basis, may require their clients (whether defendants or plaintiffs) to take out 'ATE insurance' so that costs will be covered if the case is lost. The premium payments, especially in a 'no win no fee' arrangement, may be deferred until the conclusion of the case; thus in most cases the premium itself is self-insured. This insurance is often offered by solicitors and claims management companies. The Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 (which came into force on 1 April 2013) introduced an important change regarding the recoverability of the premium: before the Act went into force the policyholder could recover the premium paid from the losing party whilst now the premium has to be paid by the client out of any damages received.\n\nThe European market is by far the most developed, with Germany, France and the Netherlands, representing respectively 43%, 14%, and 8% of the market. According to a survey commissioned by RIAD and conducted by Ipsos in August 2017 in Germany, France, Ireland, and the Netherlands, over a quarter of respondents had a legal dispute in the past 5 years. The replies showed that in all 4 countries people are mainly concerned about the costs of a dispute, this is particularly true in Ireland (50% of respondents) where fees for lawyers are extremely high. In comparison to the other countries, Dutch citizens are particularly wary of wasting time and energy (33%) while Germans are overly afraid of being deprived of their rights (27% compared to 18% in Ireland and only 10% and 8% in France and the Netherlands). Dutch respondents said that a legal protection insurer is the first point of reference if they have a legal dispute which shows the high appreciation Dutch people have for the services of legal protection insurers. This as well as the high quality of legal protection insurers in the Netherlands was confirmed by a survey commissioned in 2016 by the Dutch Ministry of Security and Justice. According to this survey employed lawyers of legal protection insurers scored highest in regard of the perceived quality of services as well as on the basis of a peer review.\n\nThe UK is the only country where legal protection insurance is primarily marketed directly to the end user (no intermediaries). The focus is on preventive dispute resolution via in-house lawyers. 80% of issues are resolved in-house. In its report of November 2017‘The Law and Practicalities of Before-The-Event (BTE) Insurance – An Information Study’ the UK Civil Justice Council concludes that legal protection insurance offers many people access to significant legal assistance. To this end, LPI's legal helplines are filling a real gap in the marketplace and in this regard insurers considerably improve access to justice in the current landscape. The report also sees a general lack of awareness among consumers about the existence of a legal protection cover as such as well as about the scope of the coverage. The report underlines that all stakeholders (lawyers, brokers, insurers, the Law Society, and the advice sector) can actively contribute to improving the awareness of legal protection insurance. With this the report confirms prior findings of two previous reports (Thematic Review of the UK's Motor Legal Expenses Insurance industry by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) of 2013, Report of the UK Ministry of Justice published in October 2007).The FCA saw that many consumers were not able to distinguish between the cover of motor insurance (protection against liability for third-party damages) and motor legal protection insurance (pursuit of claims to recover uninsured losses and protection against criminal prosecution). The 2007 report of the Ministry of Justice comes to the result that, although 59% of the UK population have some form of legal protection insurance (whether they knew it or not), fewer than one in four consumers had ever heard of BTE nor of ATE insurance. The Ministry's research estimated that 28 million British adults have actually BTE insurance, mostly as an add-on to another insurance policy.\n\nLegal protection insurance has gained significant importance in several countries outside Europe: Canada, Japan, South Africa and USA. It is also emerging in Australia, Chile, China, New Zealand and South Korea.\n\nThe Japanese market had a gross written premium of around 600 million euros in 2016, which makes of Japan the fifth biggest market after Germany, France, USA and the Netherlands. In 2016, legal protection cover added-on to motor insurance represented 90% of the market share; this is due to the fact that stand-alone insurance has only been introduced during in the last decade.\n\nThe Canadian market has been growing rapidly and several companies (some native, some US-based) offer legal protection insurance. In 2016 legal protection insurance gross written premium was around 56 million Canadian dollars; compared to the previous year almost double. In order to promote further access to justice, in 2013, the Canadian Bar Association partnered with a Canadian licensed specialist legal protection insurance company. In Québec, legal protection insurance is both endorsed and promoted by Québec's law society (bar association), \"Le Barreau du Québec\".\n\nThe pioneer of legal protection insurance in South Africa is LegalWise which introduced a basic legal protection cover in the late 1970’s.\n\nThe USA market is dominated by pre-paid legal services/ legal plans and legal protection insurance is now starting to emerge. Legal plans are largely offered in the USA and usually provide for specific events, like drafting a contract or a will, while legal protection insurance covers unforeseen events (e.g. employment or consumer disputes). Legal plans rely mainly on bulk savings (for instance mass purchasing of legal services or in-house counsel for a specified group of people, such as trade union members) rather than on insurance principles, i.e. they do not include guarantees like insurance but provide cover only until the accumulated funds are used up. Legal plans are offered by trade unions as a free benefit of union membership or they are set up by groups of people having a common interest, like university students.\n"}
{"id": "38013305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38013305", "title": "Legal plunder", "text": "Legal plunder\n\nLegal plunder, is the act of appropriating, under the laws, the property of others. This was coined by Frédéric Bastiat, most famously in his 1850 book \"The Law\". It has since become a concept in libertarian thought, and has been used similarly by others, including Daniel Lord Smail.\n\nToday it is the appropriation of the assets of another person by power groups through rules of public law that violate the principle of equality and the Constitution.\n\nThroughout history there are many examples of legal plunder as the political and economic regimes that have followed: partial legal plunder are the result of tyranny and protectionism or universal legal plunder the result of socialism or communism.\n\nFrédéric Bastiat thought that the law can only implement the individual rights: personality, liberty, and property.\n\nSo, if the law goes against the person, liberty, property, it becomes perverse as it goes against the rights that should be protected.\n\nFor him \"The law is the organization of the natural right of lawful defense\".\n\nSo he prefers a government that intervenes as little as possible in the sphere of people, liberty, and property.\n\nEvery citizen is therefore responsible for his fortune or his failures.\n\nFrédéric Bastiat to defend his idea of what should be the purpose of the law, has set a specific definition of \"\"legal plunder\".\n\nFirst he defines \"extra-legal plunder\"\" \"such as theft, or swindling, which is defined, foreseen, and punished by the penal code.\n\nIn that case, \"magistracy, police, gendarmerie, prisons, dungeons, and scaffolds\" are the instrument of the State used against the plunderer and to defend the plundered party.\n\nLegal plunder is when the law \"takes from some persons that which belongs to them, to give to others what does not belong to them.\"\n\nExamples of legal plunder include protectionist tariffs, redistributive taxation, crony capitalism, welfare, etc., which Bastiat terms (only two years after the publication of the Communist Manifesto, and before it was a firm political science term of art), \"socialism:\"\n\nNow, legal plunder may be exercised in an infinite multitude of ways. Hence come an infinite multitude of plans for organization; tariffs, protection, perquisites, gratuities, encouragements, progressive taxation, free public education, right to work, right to profit, right to wages, right to assistance, right to instruments of labor, gratuity of credit, etc., etc. And it is all these plans, taken as a whole, with what they have in common, legal plunder, that takes the name of socialism.\n\nNow socialism, thus defined, and forming a doctrinal body, what other war would you make against it than a war of doctrine? You find this doctrine false, absurd, abominable. Refute it. This will be all the easier, the more false, absurd, and abominable it is. Above all, if you wish to be strong, begin by rooting out of your legislation every particle of socialism which may have crept into it—and this will be no light work.\nIn that case, \"magistracy, police, gendarmerie, prisons, dungeons, and scaffolds\" are the instrument of the State to defend the plunderer and treat the plundered party that tries to defend his property as a criminal.\n\n"}
{"id": "36472280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36472280", "title": "List of off-label promotion pharmaceutical settlements", "text": "List of off-label promotion pharmaceutical settlements\n\nThe following are settlements reached with US authorities against pharmaceutical companies to resolve allegations of \"off-label\" promotion of drugs. Under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, it is illegal for pharmaceutical companies to promote their products for uses not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and corporations that market drugs for off-label indications may be subject to civil liability under the False Claims Act as well as criminal penalties.\n\nDescriptions of the lawsuits are listed in chronological order.\n\nIn 1996, whistleblower David Franklin left his position as a medical liaison with Parke-Davis, a pharmaceutical division of Warner-Lambert Company, after learning of the company's marketing strategy to promote the epilepsy drug Neurontin for uses not approved by the FDA. Franklin and his attorney, Thomas M. Greene, filed a lawsuit, Franklin v. Parke-Davis, under the False Claims Act in federal district court in Boston. In the first off-label promotion case ever litigated in a whistleblower suit under the False Claims Act, the settlement was announced after eight years of litigation in May 2004. Warner-Lambert agreed to pay $430 million to resolve all civil and criminal liability, with $24.64 million going to Franklin for his participation in the lawsuit. To date, it is one of the largest recoveries against a pharmaceutical company in U.S. history. The total settlement remains the largest against a pharmaceutical company in a non-intervened False Claims Act case, but a July 2017 settlement against Celgene Corporation exceeds it, as the civil settlement in that case was $280 million while the civil component of the Parke-Davis case settled for $190 million.\n\nSerono, a Swiss biotechnology company, obtained approval from the FDA for the drug Serostim in 1996 to treat AIDS wasting, a condition in which AIDS patients experience rapid weight loss. However, around the same time, the advent of more robust protease inhibitors that could interact in AIDS cocktails to markedly slow the advancement of the syndrome led to a decline in symptoms of AIDS wasting and, consequently, demand for Serostim. As a result, according to prosecutors, Serono devised a marketing scheme by which the definition of AIDS wasting would be changed to measure a loss in \"body cell mass.\" The company then created a computerized medical test designed to detect loss of body cell mass and thereby diagnose AIDS wasting even in patients who had not experienced any weight loss. Serono ultimately agreed to pay $704 million to resolve all civil and criminal liability. Five whistleblowers, all former employees of Serono, initiated complaints under the False Claims Act, ultimately leading to the government's investigation. The whistleblowers shared in a $51 million reward from the settlement.\n\nSchering-Plough pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to make false statements to the Medicaid program in connection with the pricing of its allergy drug Claritin. Allegations of off-label promotion, however, centered on the off-label promotion of several cancer drugs. The drug Temodar, which was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1999 for treatment of a specific type of brain tumor, was allegedly being promoted as a treatment for other types of brain cancer for which it had not been approved. Schering-Plough allegedly promoted Intron A, meanwhile, for use in superficial bladder cancer and hepatitis C. The case arose from claims filed under the False Claims Act; the company was forced to pay a $180 million criminal fine and an additional $255 million to settle all civil claims.\n\nIn 2007, InterMune abandoned all efforts to develop the drug Actimmune, which goes by the generic name of Interferon-gamma, as a treatment for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a chronic lung condition, after experimental trials showed the drug was ineffective at treating the disease. The decision was announced after the company agreed to pay $36.9 million to resolve criminal charges and civil liability in connection with InterMune's off-label promotion of the drug, which had only been approved by the FDA to treat chronic granulomatous disease and severe malignant osteopetrosis, both extremely rare illnesses which would have generated sales of only $20 million a year. Sales of the drug to treat IPF, however, soared as high as $141 million in the year 2003. InterMune's yearly sales were entirely from Actimmune.\n\nIn a qui tam suit filed under the False Claims Act by whistleblower James Marchese, Cell Therapeutics agreed to settle claims for $10.5 million that it illegally promoted the cancer drug Trisenox. Trisenox won approval by the FDA in 2000 to treat a relatively rare form of leukemia known as acute promyelocytic leukemia, but the manufacturer promoted Trisenox as effective treatment for other cancers for which the drug was not approved.\n\nThis settlement of $9.8 million resolved allegations that Medicis Pharmaceutical promoted Loprox, a topical skin preparation, for use on children under the age of 10 despite the fact that use in children under 10 had not been approved by the FDA. According to the government and the whistleblower complaint filed by four former Medicis sales representatives under the False Claims Act, pediatricians were urged to prescribe Loprox as a treatment for diaper rash. The four relators shared a $1,078,000 reward for providing information in the lawsuit.\n\nOrphan Medical, a subsidiary of Jazz Pharmaceuticals, pleaded guilty to felony misbranding under the FDCA and agreed to pay $20 million to resolve all civil claims and criminal charges in connection with Xyrem, a drug approved by the FDA for narcolepsy and the street version of which is classified by the Drug Enforcement Administration as a Schedule I drug. Although the drug's distribution as a narcolepsy medication is strictly regulated, the complaint filed under the False Claims Act alleged that the company promoted the drug as a treatment for depression, insomnia, and fibromyalgia.\n\nThis case was later overturned as the drug was found to be effective for insomnia and fibromyalgia. In 2012, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals further expanded First Amendment commercial speech protection in the realm of pharmaceutical marketing in United States v. Caronia. The court overturned a pharmaceutical sales representative’s conviction arising from a recording of his promotion of off-label use of Xyrem (sodium oxybate) to a group of doctors. Xyrem was approved for the indication of excessive daytime sleepiness, but Caronia promoted it for insomnia and fibromyalgia. The court held that convicting the sales representative for off-label marketing that was not untruthful or misleading violated his First Amendment rights. In contrast, off-label promotion that is untruthful and misleading would be fraudulent, and thus not protected by the First Amendment.\n\nIn a settlement totaling $515 million to settle a host of civil charges and civil liabilities related to alleged illegal pricing and marketing practices for several of its drugs, Bristol-Myers Squibb paid out approximately $50 million to settle seven \"qui tam\" suits filed under the False Claims Act. Specifically, the company engaged in off-label promotion of Abilify, an antipsychotic drug approved by the FDA to treat adult schizophrenia and bi-polar disorder. The government alleged that Bristol promoted the drug for pediatric use and to treat dementia, both of which are off-label uses.\n\nCephalon, a Pennsylvania-based drug company, paid out $425 million, $50 million of which was paid to resolve a criminal indictment for violations of the FDCA, and $375 million to dispose of claims brought under the False Claims Act. Four \"qui tam\" relators who filed suits collectively recovered $46,469,978 as their share. The FDA approved Actiq, a fentanyl product manufactured as a lollipop, for use in cancer patients for whom morphine-based painkillers are no longer effective. According to the government, Cephalon promoted Actiq for use in non-cancer patients to treat such conditions as migraines, sickle-cell pain crises, and other injuries. Gabitril, meanwhile, received FDA approval as a treatment for partial seizures, but the manufacturer allegedly marketed the drug for anxiety, insomnia, and pain. Provigil was initially approved to treat excessive daytime sleepiness resulting from narcolepsy, and later approved the drug for further label indications. Cephalon allegedly promoted Provigil for a five-year period as a non-stimulant drug for the treatment of sleepiness, tiredness, decreased\nactivity, lack of energy, and fatigue.\n\nAfter four whistleblowers initially filed suits under the False Claims Act, prompting a government investigation, Eli Lilly and Company agreed to plead guilty and pay $1.415 billion for promoting its drug Zyprexa for uses not approved by the FDA. Specifically, the private whistleblower complaints and the government alleged that Eli Lilly engaged in a marketing scheme over a period of several years to promote the drug's use in children and the elderly, groups particularly vulnerable to the product's side effects. An antipsychotic drug initially approved in 2000 to treat manifestations of certain psychotic disorders, the government's indictment contended that Eli Lilly deliberately marketed the drug to treat agitation, aggression, hostility, dementia, Alzheimer’s dementia, depression and generalized sleep disorder, none of which were uses approved by the FDA.\n\nIn what was the largest pharmaceutical settlement in U.S. history at the time, Pfizer reached a $2.3 billion settlement with the Department of Justice to resolve criminal charges and civil claims under the False Claims Act. The pharmaceutical giant was accused of off-label promotion of the anti-inflammatory drug Bextra; Geodon, an anti-psychotic drug; Zyvox, an antibiotic; and Lyrica, an anti-epileptic drug. The drugs were allegedly promoted for uses not approved by the FDA, and therefore the company's marketing caused non-reimbursable prescriptions to be paid by Medicare and Medicaid (Medicare and Medicaid do not reimburse for off-label drug prescriptions). Six whistleblowers shared a $102 million reward under the False Claims Act.\n\nAfter a government investigation precipitated by a whistleblower suit filed by Debra Parks under the False Claims Act in 2006, Alpharma agreed to a $42.5 million settlement to resolve all civil and criminal liability in connection with the company's alleged off-label marketing of Kadian. According to the government, the company promoted Kadian, a morphine-based drug, for uses unapproved by the FDA. In addition, the company made misrepresentations about the safety and efficacy of the drug.\n\nA \"qui tam\" suit filed under the False Claims Act led AstraZeneca to make a massive $520 million settlement to resolve all civil and criminal liability with respect to illegal promotion of the anti-psychotic drug Seroquel. Approved by the FDA in 1997 to treat manifestations of psychotic disorders, in 2000 the FDA subsequently approved Seroquel for short-term treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and bipolar depression. Between January 2001 through December 2006, AstraZeneca promoted Seroquel to psychiatrists and other physicians for certain uses that were not approved by the FDA, including aggression, Alzheimer’s disease, anger management, anxiety, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, bipolar maintenance, dementia, depression, mood disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, and sleeplessness. Federal health programs do not reimburse for prescriptions prescribed for indications not approved by the FDA.\n\nTwo subsidiaries of Johnson & Johnson, Ortho-McNeil Pharmaceutical and Ortho-McNeil-Janssen, agreed to pay more than $81 million to settle all civil and criminal liability as a result of the companies’ illegal marketing of Topamax, an anti-epileptic drug. As part of the settlement, Ortho-McNeil agreed to plead guilty to one count of a misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The criminal fine amounted to $6.1 million, and the government recovered $75 million in damages under the False Claims Act. The whisteblowers who filed suit under the False Claims Act stood to recover, collectively, more than $9 million.\n\nNovartis Vaccines & Diagnostics and Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation agreed to pay $72.5 million to settle claims brought under the False Claims Act alleging off-label promotion of the cystic fibrosis drug Tobi between 2001 and 2006.\n\nAllergan, the manufacturer of Botox, agreed to a $600 million settlement to resolve all civil and criminal liability surrounding the promotion of Botox for treatment of chronic migraines before FDA review or approval of the drug for such use.\n\nNovartis made a settlement of $422.5 million, including a $185 million criminal fine and forfeiture for the off-label promotion of the anti-epilepsy drug Trileptal. Trileptal was approved by the FDA to treat partial seizures, but was allegedly promoted to treat pain and some psychiatric conditions. The government also accused Novartis of paying illegal kickbacks to healthcare providers.\n\nForest Laboratories made a settlement of more than $313 million to resolve all criminal and civil liability related to three different drugs. Forest Laboratories pleaded guilty to obstruction of justice and illegal distribution of Levothroid, which at the time was an unapproved new drug. The settlement also resolved allegations of off-label marketing of Celexa, an antidepressant approved to treat adult depression. According to the government, Forest marketed Celexa for use in children and adolescents.\n\nIrish pharmaceutical company Élan and its U.S. subsidiary agreed to pay $203 million to resolve allegations that the company engaged in off-label promotion of the anti-epilepsy drug Zonegran. Eisai, a Japanese drug marketer that purchased the drug from Élan, agreed to pay $11 million. The settlement resolved claims of illegal promotion under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act as well as civil claims filed under the False Claims Act.\n\nKos Pharmaceuticals, a subsidiary of Abbott Laboratories, agreed to a settlement of more than $41 million to dispose of all civil and criminal liability resulting from the company's off-label promotion and illegal payment of kickbacks in the marketing of Advicor and Niaspan. The Department of Justice entered into a deferred prosecution agreement with Kos based on actions taken by the company to conduct internal investigations and its ongoing cooperation with the government.\n\nThe U.S. subsidiary of UCB, a Belgian pharmaceutical company, agreed to pay more than $34 million as part of a settlement agreement to resolve all criminal and civil liability arising from its alleged off-label promotion of the epilepsy drug Keppra. UCB was alleged to have promoted the drug for the treatment of migraine headaches, a use for which Keppra had not received FDA approval.\n\nNovo Nordisk, a Danish drug manufacturer, agreed to a $25 million settlement to resolve allegations of illegal promotion of the drug NovoSeven, approved by the FDA to treat certain bleeding disorders in hemophiliacs. The government’s complaint alleged numerous off-label uses for which the company promoted the drug, including as a coagulatory agent for trauma patients, general surgery, cardiac surgery, liver surgery, liver transplants and intra-cerebral hemorrhage.\n\nAs was the case in the 2004 Pfizer settlement over off-label promotion of Neurontin, in 2011 Pfizer agreed to a settlement as a result of a whistleblower complaint filed under the False Claims Act without intervention by the Department of Justice. The $14.5 million settlement arose from a complaint which alleged that Pfizer was engaging in the illegal promotion of Detrol, a drug approved by the FDA to treat urinary incontinence, for off-label uses.\n\nAbbott Laboratories agreed to pay $800 million to resolve its criminal and civil liability arising from the company’s unlawful promotion of the prescription drug Depakote for uses not approved as safe and effective by the FDA. The company misbranded Depakote by promoting the drug to control agitation and aggression in elderly dementia patients and to treat schizophrenia when neither of these uses was FDA approved. This settlement figure represents resolution of other claims in addition to off-label promotion.\n\nGlaxoSmithKline (GSK) agreed to pay $1.043 billion relating to false claims arising from off-label promotion. GSK promoted the drugs Paxil and Wellbutrin for unapproved, non-covered uses. GSK also promoted its asthma drug, Advair, for first-line therapy for mild asthma patients even though it was not approved or medically appropriate under these circumstances. GSK also promoted Advair for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with misleading claims as to the relevant treatment guidelines. GSK also promoted Lamictal, an anti-epileptic medication, for off-label, non-covered psychiatric uses, neuropathic pain and pain management. Further, GSK promoted certain forms of Zofran, approved only for post-operative nausea, for the treatment of morning sickness in pregnant women. This settlement figure represents resolution of other claims in addition to off-label promotion.\n\nAmgen agreed to pay $612 million for the off-label promotion of three drugs it manufactured, Enbrel and Neulasta. Amgen promoted the sale and use of Aranesp for dosing regiments and indications which were (a) not approved by the FDA, and (b) not medically accepted indications, including anemia caused by cancer, anemia caused by chronic disease, chronic anemia, and anemia caused by myelodysplastic syndrome. Similarly, Amgen promoted its drugs Enbrel and Neulasta for off-label indications that were not eligible for coverage by federal health care programs. This settlement figure represents resolution of other claims in addition to off-label promotion.\n\nPar Pharmaceutical agreed to pay $22.5 million to the federal government and various states to resolve claims arising from its off-label marketing. Par made unsubstantiated and misleading representations about the superiority of Megace ES over generic megestrol acetate for elderly patients to encourage providers to switch patients from generic megestrol acetate to Megace ES, despite having conducted no well-controlled studies to support a claim of greater efficacy for Megace ES. Except as admitted in the plea agreement, the claims settled by the civil settlement agreement are allegations only, and there has been no determination of liability as to those claims.\n\nWyeth, which was acquired by Pfizer in 2009, agreed to pay $257.4 million to resolve claims involving off-label promotion of the immunosuppressant drug Rapamune. The government alleged that Wyeth violated the False Claims Act, from 1998 through 2009, by promoting Rapamune for unapproved uses, some of which were not medically accepted indications and, therefore, were not covered by Medicare, Medicaid and other federal health care programs. These unapproved uses included non-renal transplants, conversion use (switching a patient from another immunosuppressant to Rapamune) and using Rapamune in combination with other immunosuppressive agents not listed on the label.\n\nJohnson & Johnson agreed to pay $1.391 billion to resolve false claims resulting from its off-label promotion of Risperdal, Invega and Natrecor. Risperdal was approved only to treat schizophrenia, yet Janssen, a Johnson and Johnson (J&J) subsidiary, promoted Risperdal to physicians and other prescribers who treated elderly dementia patients by urging the prescribers to use Risperdal to treat symptoms such as anxiety, agitation, depression, hostility and confusion. Similarly, although Invega was approved only for the treatment of schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder, from 2006 through 2009, J&J and Janssen marketed the drug for off-label indications. Finally, Scios Inc. a subsidiary of J&J, launched an aggressive campaign to market Natrecor for scheduled, serial outpatient infusions for patients with less severe heart failure – a use not included in the FDA-approved label and not covered by federal health care programs. This settlement figure represents resolution of other claims in addition to off-label promotion.\n\nCareFusion agreed to pay $40.1 million to resolve allegations of off-label promotion of ChloraPrep. ChloraPrep had been approved by the FDA for the preparation of a patient’s skin prior to surgery or injection. This settlement also resolves allegations that, during the period between September 2009 and August 2011, CareFusion knowingly promoted the sale of ChloraPrep for uses that were not approved by the FDA, some of which were not medically accepted indications, and made unsubstantiated representations about the appropriate uses of ChloraPrep. This settlement figure represents resolution of other claims in addition to off-label promotion.\n\nEndo Pharmaceuticals agreed to pay $171.9 million to resolve civil liability under the False Claims Act for its off-label promotion of Lidoderm. The government charged that, between 2002 and 2006, Endo misbranded Lidoderm and introduced it into interstate commerce in violation of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA). Lidoderm's labeling lacked adequate directions for use in the treatment of non-PHN related pain, including low back pain, diabetic neuropathy and carpal tunnel syndrome. These uses were intended by Endo Pharmaceuticals Inc. but never approved by the FDA.\n\nIn August 2015, Insys Therapeutics reached a $1.1 million settlement with the Oregon Department of Justice, resolving allegations that it promoted its opioid drug Subsys to treat off-label non-cancer uses that were not approved by the FDA. Insys has also paid New Hampshire $2.9 million to settle allegations of aggressive marketing of Subsys.\n\nOn July 22, 2016, California-based medical device manufacturer and Johnson & Johnson subsidiary Acclarent Inc. agreed to pay $18 million to resolve allegations that it marketed and distributed its sinus spacer product for use as a drug delivery device without FDA approval. The government alleged that it continued its off-label marketing even after the FDA rejected the company's request to expand the approved uses, and even though the company added a warning to its label regarding the use of active drug substances in the device. On July 20, 2016, the company's former CEO and former Vice President of Sales also were convicted following a trial of ten misdemeanor counts of introducing adulterated and misbranded medical devices into interstate commerce.\n\nOn November 7, 2016, medical device company Biocompatibles Inc., a subsidiary of BTG plc agreed to pay $25 million to resolve allegations that it violated the False Claims Act by causing false claims to be submitted to government health care programs. The company allegedly promoted LC Bead, its embolization device—designed, to be inserted into blood vessels to block the flow of blood to tumors—for off-label use as a \"drug-delivery\" device, which was not an FDA-approved use and was not supported by substantial clinical evidence. The company also agreed to pay an additional $11 million in criminal fines and forfeitures for a total of $36 million.\n\nOn December 9, 2016, pharmaceutical company Bristol-Myers Squibb agreed to pay $19.5 million to settle claims with forty-three state attorneys general concerning the alleged off-label promotion of its schizophrenia drug Abilify. The lawsuit alleged the company promoted the drug for use in pediatric populations and to treat dementia and Alzheimer's in elderly patients, despite the fact that those were not FDA-approved uses.\n\nIn January 2017, Shire PLC Subsidiaries entered into a global resolution under the civil FCA with federal and state governments for $350 million. The settlement largely focused on payment of alleged kickbacks to induce clinics and physicians to use or overuse its product “Dermagraft,” a bioengineered human skin substitute approved by the FDA for the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers. The settlement also resolved allegations that Shire and its predecessor ABH unlawfully marketed Dermagraft for off-label uses not approved by the FDA, made false statements to inflate the price of Dermagraft, and caused improper coding, verification, or certification of Dermagraft claims and related services. The allegations resolved by the settlement were brought in six lawsuits filed under the qui tam, or whistleblower, provisions of the False Claims Act.\n\nIn July 2017, Celgene agreed to pay $280 million to government agencies to settle allegations that it caused the submission of false claims or fraudulent claims for non-reimbursable uses of its drugs Revlimid and Thalomid to Medicare and state Medicaid programs. In addition to listing off-label promotion under the covered conduct, the settlement agreement separately covered alleged \"false and misleading\" statements Celgene made about the drugs, including by concealing or minimizing adverse events. In its July 2017 Form 10-Q, Celgene disclosed that it resolved the matter in full for $315 million, including fees and expenses. The case was brought under the False Claims Act by Beverly Brown, a former Celgene sales representative.\n\nOn September 22, 2017, Aegerion Pharmaceuticals agreed to pay $28.2 million to resolve allegations that it violated federal marketing rules in promoting its cholesterol medication Juxtapid, resulting in the violation of the Federal False Claims Act and state analogues. The settlement resolved allegations that Aegerion, promoted Juxtapid for off-label uses not approved by the FDA, made false and misleading statements to medical practitioners regarding the drug, violated risk-management regulations designed to ensure safe use, and broke anti-kickback laws with charity donations. In addition to civil False Claims Act liability, Aegerion also agreed to a guilty plea involving the same conduct and to pay a criminal fine and forfeiture of $7.2 million.\n\nIn December 2017, Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals Inc. agreed to pay $13.5 million to settle claims by all 51 state attorneys general (of the 50 states plus the Attorney General of the District of Columbia) that it engaged in off-label promotion of its drugs Aggrenox, Atrovent and Combivent, and Micardis.\n\n"}
{"id": "666596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=666596", "title": "MacCormick v Lord Advocate", "text": "MacCormick v Lord Advocate\n\nMacCormick v Lord Advocate 1953 SC 396, 1953 SLT 255 was a UK administrative law and Scottish legal action on whether Queen Elizabeth II was entitled to use the numeral \"II\" in her title in use in Scotland, there having never been an earlier Elizabeth reigning in Scotland.\n\nJohn MacCormick (the Rector of the University of Glasgow) and Ian Hamilton (then part of the Glasgow University Scottish Nationalist Association) contested the right of Queen Elizabeth II to style herself 'Elizabeth II' within Scotland. They claimed it was a breach of the Act of Union 1707 between England and Scotland, since Queen Elizabeth I had been Queen of England but not of Scotland. The action was brought against the Crown, which was represented by the Lord Advocate, who is the most senior law officer in Scotland.\n\nThe petition first came before Lord Guthrie, sitting as Lord Ordinary in the Outer House (the court of first instance in the Court of Session). He dismissed it; this was appealed to the Inner House. The appeal was heard by the Lord President (Lord Cooper of Culross), Lord Carmont, and Lord Russell. There, MacCormick and Hamilton lost their case: it was held that the treaty had no provision concerning the numbering of monarchs—it was part of the royal prerogative, and that they had no title to sue the Crown. The Lord President did give his opinion that \"the principle of unlimited sovereignty of Parliament is a distinctively English principle and has no counterpart in Scottish constitutional law\". The case was thus constitutionally interesting as \"the Lord Advocate conceded this point by admitting that the Parliament of the United Kingdom 'could not' repeal or alter [certain] 'fundamental and essential' conditions\" of the Act of Union. However, the Lord President also held that \"there is neither precedent nor authority of any kind for the view that the domestic Courts of either Scotland or England have jurisdiction to determine whether a governmental act of the type here in controversy is or is not conform to the provisions of a Treaty\" and \"it has not been shown that the Court of Session has authority to entertain the issue sought to be raised\".\n\nThe outcome of this case has had continuing relevance, most notably in 1999, when the British Parliament discussed the creation of the Scottish Parliament. It has been discussed in a number of later decisions of the courts, notably \"Gibson v Lord Advocate\" 1975 SC 136, and the English case of \"Jackson v Attorney General\", [2005] 3 WLR 733.\n\nWinston Churchill suggested that British sovereigns would use either the English or the Scottish number, whichever was higher. For example, as there has never been a regnant King Henry of Scotland (King Henry, husband of Mary, Queen of Scots was a King Consort) but there was a Henry VIII of England, a future King Henry of the United Kingdom would be Henry IX; but as there has been a James VII of Scotland but only a James II of England, a future King James of the United Kingdom would be James VIII. Also, England has never had a King David, but there was a King David II of Scotland, so a future King David of the United Kingdom would be David III, and a future King Richard would be Richard IV, as England has had three monarchs of that name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39933870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39933870", "title": "Mavis Maclean", "text": "Mavis Maclean\n\nMavis Maclean (born 31 December 1943), CBE, FRSA, FAcSS has carried out socio-legal research at Oxford since 1974, and in 2001 founded the Oxford Centre for Family Law and Policy (OXFLAP).\n\nIn 1993 she was elected President of the Research Committee for the Sociology of Law, International Sociological Association, in 2000 a Trustee of the Law and Society Association. Maclean founded Oxford Centre for Family Law and Policy (OXFLAP) in 2001, she is also a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and the ESRC Research College SHARe. In 2011 she was the inaugural recipient of the Socio-Legal Studies Association's Prize for Contributions to the Socio-Legal Community.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57793210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57793210", "title": "Ministry of Human Rights, Justice, Governance and Decentralization (Honduras)", "text": "Ministry of Human Rights, Justice, Governance and Decentralization (Honduras)\n\nEstablished as early as 1826, the Ministry of Human Rights, Justice, Governance and Decentralization of Honduras was created from the territorial division of Honduras and was initially composed of seven departments. The ministry is responsible for matters pertaining to the internal government, which include the following: \n\n\nThe ministry has been called by different names over the course of its history. For instance, in 2014, President Juan Orlando Hernández announced plans to eliminate the Ministry of Justice and Human Rights and merge it with the Ministry of Interior. Certain sources refer to the Minister of Human Rights, Justice, Governance and Decentralization as the Secretariat. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23437884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23437884", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Afghanistan)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Afghanistan)\n\nCurrent and past governments of Afghanistan have included a Minister of Justice in the Afghan cabinet. \n\nThe Ministry of Justice of Afghanistan assumes responsibilities such as drafting and reviewing laws and decrees of the president, raising public awareness of legal topics, managing affairs relating to legal aid, and printing and disseminating legislative documents. In 1967, the Ministry of Justice was combined with the Attorney General's Office. By 1977, the Ministry of Justice took over the functions of the Chief Justice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "871781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=871781", "title": "Ministry of Justice (France)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (France)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice is controlled by the French Minister of Justice - Keeper of the Seals (\"Ministre de la Justice - Garde des Sceaux\"), a top-level cabinet position in the French Government. The current Minister of Justice is Nicole Belloubet. The ministry is headquartered in Paris.\n\nThe roles of the minister are to:\n\nThe Minister of Justice also holds the ceremonial office of Keeper of the Seals and, as such, is custodian of the Great Seal of France. This symbolic role is still shown in the order of words of the minister's official designation, \"Keeper of Seals, Minister of Justice\" (\"Garde des Sceaux, Ministre de la Justice\"). \n\nFrance's Ministry of Justice might oversee the administration of justice in French Guiana, French Polynesia, Guadeloupe, Jersey, Martinique, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Réunion, Saint-Barthélemy, Saint-Martin, Saint Pierre and Miquelon and Wallis and Futuna.\n\nThe French Ministry of Justice is subdivided into a number of departments, namely:\n\nIn 2010 the prisons in the French Prison Service has one of the highest rates of prisoner suicide in Europe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48004328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48004328", "title": "Moses v Macferlan", "text": "Moses v Macferlan\n\nMoses v Macferlan (1760) 2 Bur 1005 is a foundational case in the law of restitution holding that in certain circumstances such as when money is paid by mistake, for failed consideration or under oppression; the law will allow the money to be recovered.\n\nChapman Jacob had made out four promissory notes to Moses for 30s each.\n\nMoses owed Macferlan £26, did not pay him and was sued. A settlement was reached at arbitration whereby Moses would pay Macferlan £20; and endorse to Macferlan the four promissory notes he had received from Jacob. Moses, endorsed these notes to Macferlan, thus transferring over rights to the money. Prior to Moses endorsement, Macferlan assured him that his endorsement would not prejudice him. In other words, Macferlan would not seek to get the value of the notes from Moses. There was also an agreement signed by Macferlan that Moses should \"not be liable to the payment of the money or any part of it\".\n\nDespite Macferlan's assurances and agreement with Moses; he summoned Moses into the Middlesex Court of Conscience as the endorser of the four promissory notes.\n\nThe lawyer for Moses put the agreement before the court and offered to give evidence of it in Moses defence. However, the Court rejected this defence as beyond its jurisdiction, refused to receive evidence of it and gave judgment against Moses; holding that his endorsement establishing his liability. Moses paid the money, to the value of the four promissory notes, into court. Macferlan then withdrew the money at the order of the court.\n\nOn the subsequent action of Moses in the King's Bench court to recover the £6, the jury found that Moses was entitled to the money subject to the opinion of the court on the question, \"Whether the money could be recovered in the present form of action, or whether it must be recovered by an action brought upon the special agreement only\".\n\nWilliam Gummow has summarised the problem that the court had to deal with; \"The root of the doctrinal problem presented to the King’s Bench in \"Moses v. Macferlan\" was the absence of an accepted basis for the action for money had and received. Lord Mansfield gave a number of settled instances where the action lay, but the instant case did not fall within any of them. Lord Mansfield also sought to find a principle within which past, present, and future cases might be accommodated. Given what he saw as the rigidities of the common law, Lord Mansfield looked to equity for an appropriate analogy upon which the common law should draw.\"\n\nLord Mansfield CJ dealt with a number of objections to allowing the plaintiff's action in Assumpsit.\n\nFirstly, he noted the objection \"That an Action of \"Debt\" would not lie here and no \"Assumpsit\" will lie, where an Action of Debt may not be brought\"; and responded that the rule was \"That an Action of \"Assumpsit\" WILL \"lie\" in many cases where \"Debt lies\" and in many where it does \"not\" lie.\"\n\nSecondly, he dealt with the objection, \"That no \"Assumpsit\" lies, except upon an \"express\" or \"implied\" Contract\"; answering \"If the Defendant be under an \"Obligation,\" from the Ties of \"natural Justice,\" to \"refund\"; the Law \"implies a Debt,\" and \"gives this Action,\" founded in the Equity of the Plaintiff's Case, \"as it were upon a Contract\"\".\n\nThirdly, Lord Mansfield rejected the assertion that a court's judgment could not be revised by a new action; \"Money may be recovered by a right and legal judgment; and yet the iniquity of keeping that money may be manifest, upon grounds which could not be used by way of defence against the judgment.\"\n\nLord Mansfield then held,\"This kind of equitable action, to recover back money, which ought not in justice to be kept, is very beneficial, and therefore much encouraged. It lies for money which, \"ex aequo et bono\", the defendant ought to refund; it does not lie for money paid by the plaintiff, which is claimed of him as payable in point of honour and honesty, although it could not have been recovered from him by any course of law; as in payment of a debt barred by the Statute of Limitations, or contracted during his infancy, or to the extent of principal and legal interest upon an usurious contract, or, for money fairly lost at play: because in all these cases, the defendant may retain it with a safe conscience, though by positive law he was barred from recovering. But it lies for money paid by mistake; or upon a consideration which happens to fail; or for money got through imposition, (express or implied) or extortion; or oppression; or an undue advantage taken of the plaintiff's situation, contrary to laws made for the protection of persons under those circumstances. In one word, the gist of this kind of action is, that the defendant, upon the circumstances of the case, is obliged by the ties of natural justice and equity, to refund the money.\"\n\nLord Mansfield's judgment in \"Moses v Macferlan\" is credited with founding the entire common law of unjust enrichment. It has been described in the United Kingdom Supreme Court as \"a corner-stone of common law restitution\".\n\nAs Peter Birks noted of Mansfield's statement of law (cited above), \"This corresponds very closely to the modern structure of the law of unjust enrichment. The phrase \"unjust enrichment\" does not actually appear. But \"money which ought not in justice to be kept\" is \"unjust enrichment\", cut down to money as the form of action necessitated.\"\n\nBirks observes that Mansfield's classification of unjust factors, \"was endowed with the authority of scripture and broadcast to the world by Blackstone. He adopted it in the third volume of his \"Commentaries\", which came out in 1768. Following Lord Mansfield almost verbatim, Blackstone says that the plaintiff is entitled to recover \"where money is paid by mistake, or on a consideration which happens to fail, or through imposition, extortion, or oppression, or where undue advantage is taken of the plaintiff's situation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3835612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3835612", "title": "New Hampshire Probate Court", "text": "New Hampshire Probate Court\n\nNew Hampshire Probate Court in the U.S. state of New Hampshire, is the court which has jurisdiction over trusts, wills, and estates, adoptions, termination of parental rights, name changes, guardianship of incapacitated persons, guardianship of minors, partition of property and involuntary admissions. Each of the ten counties has a probate court. Full-time judges assigned to Belknap, Hillsborough, Merrimack, Rockingham and Strafford counties, with the remaining counties having part-time judges.\n\nThe Probate Court has exclusive jurisdiction over:\n\n\nThe probate court has concurrent jurisdiction with the Superior Court over the following:\n\n\nNew Hampshire has eleven Probate Courts, with one in each county. Full-time judges assigned to Belknap, Hillsborough, Merrimack, Rockingham and Strafford County. Part-time judges are assigned to Carroll, Cheshire, Coos, Grafton and Sullivan County.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23637219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23637219", "title": "Notice and take down", "text": "Notice and take down\n\nNotice and take down is a process operated by online hosts in response to court orders or allegations that content is illegal. Content is removed by the host following notice. Notice and take down is widely operated in relation to copyright infringement, as well as for libel and other illegal content. In United States and European Union law, notice and takedown is mandated as part of limited liability, or safe harbour, provisions for online hosts (see the Digital Millennium Copyright Act 1998 and the Electronic Commerce Directive 2000). As a condition for limited liability online hosts must expeditiously remove or disable access to content they host when they are notified of the alleged illegality.\n\nThe Online Copyright Infringement Liability Limitation Act, passed into law in 1998 as part of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act provides safe harbour protection to \"online service providers\" for \"online storage\" in section 512(c). Section 512(c) applies to online service providers that store copyright infringing material. In addition to the two general requirements that online service providers comply with standard technical measures and remove repeat infringers, section 512(c) also requires that the online service providers: 1) do not receive a financial benefit directly attributable to the infringing activity, 2) are not aware of the presence of infringing material or know any facts or circumstances that would make infringing material apparent, and 3) upon receiving notice from copyright owners or their agents, act expeditiously to remove the allegedly copyright infringing material.\n\nAn online service provider can be notified through the copyright owner's written notification of claimed infringement. Section 512(c) lists a number of requirements the notification must comply with, including:\n\nProvided the notification complies with the requirements of Section 512, the online service provider must expeditiously remove or disable access to the allegedly infringing material, otherwise the provider loses its safe harbour and is exposed to possible liability. Following this the online service provider must take reasonable steps to promptly notify the alleged infringer of the action. If there is a counter notification from the alleged infringer, the online service provider must then promptly notify the claiming party of the individual's objection. If the copyright owner does not bring a lawsuit in district court within 14 days, the service provider is then required to restore the material to its location on its network. If the service provider receives a counter notice claiming that the material does not infringe copyrights, the service provider must also comply with requirements set out in Section 512, including:\n\nIf the court determines that the copyright owner misrepresented the claim of copyright infringement, the copyright owner becomes liable for any damages that resulted to the online service provider from the improper removal of the material. The online service provider is also required to appropriately respond to \"repeat infringers\", including termination of online accounts. On this basis online service providers may insert clauses into user service agreements which allow them to terminate or disable user accounts following repeat infringement of copyright. Identification of \"repeat infringer\" may occur through repeated notice and takedown requests, while other online service provider require a determination by a court.\n\nThe basis for notice and takedown procedures under EU law is article 14 of the Electronic Commerce Directive, adopted in 2000. Article 14 applies to content hosts in relation to all \"illegal activity or information\". Online hosts are not liable for the illegal activity, or information placed on its systems by a user, so long as the online host does not have \"actual knowledge\" of the activity or information. Upon obtaining such knowledge, the online host must act expeditiously to remove or to disable access to the information. The Directive does not set out notice and takedown procedures but it envisaged the development of such a process because online hosts who fail to act expeditiously upon notification lose limited liability protection. The Directive suggests that voluntary agreements between trade bodies and consumer associations could specify notice and takedown processes, and that such initiatives should be encouraged by member states.\n\nIn most EU countries at the national level, there are no explicit rules regarding notice of infringement, take-down process or counter notice and put back (statutory rules exist in smaller countries like Hungary and Finland). Where explicit rules do not exist (e.g. Germany), some aspects of notice requirements can be derived from common principles of law. By nature, this lack of explicit rules results in a lack of clarity and legal certainty when compared to legal regimes with statutory rules (e.g. United States).\n\nIn October 2013, the European Court of Human Rights ruled in the Delfi AS v. Estonia case that the Estonian news website Delfi was liable for defamatory comments by users in an article. The court stated that the company \"should have expected offensive posts, and exercised an extra degree of caution so as to avoid being held liable for damage to an individual’s reputation\" and its notice and take down comments moderation system was \"insufficient for preventing harm being cause to third parties\".\n\nNotice and takedown has been criticised for over-blocking or take down of non-infringing content. In 2001 the Electronic Frontier Foundation launched a collaborative clearinghouse for notice and takedown requests, known as \"Chilling Effects\". Researchers have been using the clearinghouse to study the use of cease-and-desist demands, primarily looking at DMCA 512 takedown notices, but also non-DMCA copyright issues, and trademark claims. A 2005 study into the DMCA notice and take down process by Jennifer Urban and Laura Quilter from the Samuelson Law, Technology and Public Policy Clinic concluded that \"some notices are sent in order to accomplish the paradigmatic goal of 512 – the inexpensive takedown of clearly infringing hosted content or links to infringing web sites\". However, on the basis of data on such notices the study concluded that the DMCA notice and take down process \"is commonly used for other purposes: to create leverage in a competitive marketplace, to protect rights not given by copyright (or perhaps any other law), and to stifle criticism, commentary and fair use\". However, it is misleading to conclude that these problems do not arise under the E-Commerce Directive, which does not provide for a statutory notice and take-down procedure, since these chilling effects are a specific problem of provider liability as such.\n\nIn 2007 numerous US based online service providers hosting user generated content implemented content recognition technology to screen uploaded content for possible copyright infringement. These content ID systems, such as operated by YouTube, are outside the Digital Millennium Copyright Act mandated notice and takedown process. The Electronic Frontier Foundation, along with other civil society organisations published principles on user generated content, calling for the protection of legitimate use of copyright protected works, prior notification of the uploader before removal or the placement of ads on the content, use of the DMCA counter notice system, including reinstatement upon counter note and the failure of the copyright owner to bring a lawsuit.\n\nThe Electronic Commerce Directive, unlike the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, did not define so called \"notice and action\" procedures under article 14 of the Directive. Member states implemented diverging approaches on the duty to act expeditiously and on when an online host obtains \"actual knowledge\" in relation to notifications. Inconsistent approaches to whether online service providers, such as search engines or social media networks, fall within the definition of online host, under article 14 developed across the EU. As a result, notice and takedown procedures are fragmented across EU member states and online hosts face considerable legal uncertainty. The European Commission consulted on notice and action procedures under article 14 in 2010, and has launched a new initiative in June 2012. The European Commission observed that \"Online intermediaries face high compliance costs and legal uncertainty because they typically have operations across Europe, but the basic rules of Article 14 are interpreted in different ways by different national courts (sometimes even within the same member state).\" As part of the initiative the European Commission intends to clarify which online service providers fall within the article 14 definition of online hosts. The initiative assesses whether different categories of illegal content require different notice and action approaches.\nIt seems that in 2013 the European Commission's notice and action initiative has come to a halt. The reason for this is unclear. One aspect might be to avoid bad publicity, since notice and take down is associated with chilling effects on free speech as described above. The other reason might be the following problem: the EU Commission already made it quite clear that it does not want to change the Electronic Commerce Directive – while indeed it seems impossible to provide legal certainty in the take down process without a binding legal underpinning.\n\nThe term notice and stay down is used to refer to the concept of additionally requiring that a service, after it has received a request to take down a certain copyrighted work, must also prevent the same work from becoming available on the service again in the future. Proposals for such concepts typically prescribe the implementation of automatic content recognition, similar to YouTube's \"Content ID\" system, that would proactively filter identified works and prevent them from being re-uploaded. Proposals for notice and stay down rules have been made in the United States by pro-copyright lobbyists, and constitute Article 13 of the EU's proposed Directive on Copyright in the Digital Single Market.\n\nThe concept of notice and stay down has faced criticism; it has been noted that the only way to reliably enforce such an obligation would be through automatic filtering, which is subject to the possibility of false positives, and the inability to detect lawful uses of an affected work (such as fair use). The Electronic Frontier Foundation argued that requiring proactive monitoring of user content would place the burden of copyright enforcement on service providers (thus defeating the purpose of safe harbors), and would be too costly for newly-established companies (thus bolstering incumbents such as Google and stifling innovation).\n\n"}
{"id": "1407775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1407775", "title": "Pure Theory of Law", "text": "Pure Theory of Law\n\nPure Theory of Law () is a book by legal theorist Hans Kelsen, first published in 1934 and in a greatly expanded \"second edition\" (effectively a new book) in 1960. The second edition appeared in English translation in 1967, as \"Pure Theory of Law\", the first edition in English translation in 1992, as \"Introduction to the Problems of Legal Theory\". The theory proposed in this book has probably been the most influential theory of law produced during the 20th century. It is, at the least, one of the high points of modernist legal theory.\n\nThe two editions of Kelsen's book were separated by twenty-six years, and the second edition (1960) was almost twice the length of the first in the detail of its presentation. The original terminology which was introduced in the first edition was already present in many of Kelsen's writings from the 1920s, and were also subject to discussion in the critical press of that decade as well, before it was first published in 1934. Although the second edition was significantly longer, the two editions had a great deal of similarity of content, and much of the material covered in the volumes is consistent not only with one another, but also with many of Kelsen's previous writings from the 1910s and 1920s. The following sections herein shall follow Kelsen's own preference for the presentation of his main topics of the pure theory of law as he presented them in the second edition of this book.\n\nIn the first paragraph of \"Pure Theory of Law\", Kelsen introduces his theory as being a theory of positive law. This theory of positive law is then presented by Kelsen as forming a hierarchy of laws which start from a basic norm (\"Grundnorm\") where all other norms are related to each other by either being inferior norms, when the one is compared to the other, or superior norms. The interaction of these norms is then further subject to representation as a static theory of law (Kelsen's chapter 4) or as a dynamic theory of law (Kelsen's chapter 5).\n\nKelsen's strict separation of law and morality, in Chapter Two of \"Pure Theory of Law\", was an integral part of his presentation of the Pure Theory of Law. The application of the law, in order to be protected from moral influence or political influence, needed to be safeguarded by its separation from the sphere of conventional moral influence or political influence. Kelsen did not deny that moral discussion was still possible and even to be encouraged in the sociological domain of intersubjective activity. However, the Pure Theory of Law was not to be subject to such influences.\n\nIn Chapter Three of \"Pure Theory of Law\", law is defined as the application of norms to its functions within the delineations of a science of law. Science was generally the domain of the causal understanding of epistemological data and its primary logical and causally oriented technique was to be distinguished from the normative reasoning as was to be found in the Pure Theory of Law. Therefore, the legal sciences were to be normatively based in distinction from the physical sciences which were to be causally based.\n\nIn Chapter Four, Kelsen distinguishes the static theory of law from the dynamic theory of law. The static theory of law represents the law as a hierarchy of laws where the individual laws are related as being either superior or inferior the one to the other. This hierarchical theory was largely adopted from Adolf Merkl's research in the structural aspects of the law while Kelsen was still in Vienna. At nearly one hundred pages each, Kelsen's chapters on the static aspect of law and the dynamic aspect of law are the most extensively developed sections of this book.\n\nIn Chapter Five of \"Pure Theory of Law\", sections 34 and 35, Kelsen discusses the dynamic theory of law. In the dynamic theory of law, the static theory of law comes into direct contact with the governmental administration of the state which must recognize the function of the legislature in the writing of new law. At the same time there is also the understanding of law as being affected by the accumulated standing law which represents the decisions of the courts which in principle become part of the hierarchical representation of the Pure Theory of Law. Importantly, Kelsen allows for the legislative process to recognize the law as the product of political and ethical debate which is the product of the activity of the legislature before it becomes part of the domain of the static theory of law. At nearly one hundred pages in length, this chapter on the dynamic aspect of law is the longest and most fully developed chapter in this book other than the chapter on the static aspect of law.\n\nChapter Six of \"Pure Theory of Law\" has Kelsen present his celebrated identity theory of law and state. This is Kelsen's highly functional theory of the state and the law as representing the same entity. It is not to be confused with the sociological domain or the cultural domain of intersubjective activity. Nor is it to be confused with the political or even the religious domain of intersubjective interaction among individuals.\n\nIn Chapter Seven, Kelsen discusses the interaction of state law and international law as these are especially guided by the understanding of political sovereignty. For Kelsen, the assessment of international law is that it represents a very primitive form of law in distinct contrast to the highly developed forms of law as may be found in individual nations and states. As a result, Kelsen emphasizes that international law is often prone to the conduct of war and severe diplomatic measures (blockade, seizure, internment, etc.) as offering the only corrective measures available to it in regulating the conduct between nations. For Kelsen, this is largely inevitable due to the relative primitiveness of international law in contemporary society.\n\nKelsen's final chapter, Chapter Eight, deals with the subject of interpretation in at least three of its most important aspects. First, Kelsen discusses the nature and methodology of the interpretation of the law. Second, he discusses interpretation as an act of cognition and of voluntary will. Third, he discusses interpretation as it is to be understood as part of the science of law, as Kelsen has defined it as being 'purified' from the undue influences of politics, morals, and metaphysics.\n\nKelsen attempted to reconstruct 'legal science (\"Rechtswissenschaft\")' as a 'science of norms (\"Normen\")', on analogy with Immanuel Kant's conception of a science of 'causality' as used in natural science (Hans Kelsen, \"Society and Nature\", 1946, pages 249-262, Kegan Paul Press). This type of legal science would be 'pure' in two senses as described below.\n\nFirstly, it would be 'pure' in a sense analogous to that in Kant's \"Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science\". It would set out \"a priori\" a 'pure part' of legal science, consisting of a framework of fundamental concepts. Then, in an empirical part of legal science, this framework would be applied to empirical (sociological, historical and so on) material so as to understand that material as 'law'.\n\nThe science, in both of its parts, would also be 'pure' in a second sense, in being solely descriptive—excluding from the science any element of evaluation. The core subject matter of legal science, for Kelsen, is legal norms. He defines a 'norm' as 'the meaning of an act of will'. Thus, for Kelsen a norm does not necessarily have any element of generality—hence not all norms are rules. Indeed, as the meaning of an act of will, a norm is not intrinsically rational; departing from Kant both back toward David Hume as well as in the direction of contemporary philosophical positivism, Kelsen denies the existence of practical reason.\n\nLegal science, as Kelsen would like it to be, has to describe a legal norm without either evaluating it or adopting it as an evaluation. This can be done by distinguishing rigorously between the social statement that is the norm itself and the legal-scientific restatement of it that is, or is contained in, a description of the norm. Kelsen terms the norm itself a 'legal norm (\"Rechtsnorm\")' and its descriptive restatement a 'legal proposition (\"Rechtssatz\")'. Thus, when a jurist (legal scientist) states that the law of a certain country contains the norm 'theft is to be punished with imprisonment', this legal proposition is not a comment on whether anybody in that country has a moral or other extra-legal obligation to impose, accept or evade such a penalty. In reading Kelsen, however, one has to bear in mind that, when he refers to a 'norm', he is usually speaking elliptically: he is uttering a legal proposition which stands for a legal norm, in much the same way that a picture of a dog shows the dog but does not bark.\n\nThis kind of 'purity' already excludes ideas of natural law, in which description and evaluation are intimately connected. That leaves as the subject matter of legal science only positive law. Kelsen is a 'legal positivist' both in that he excludes evaluation from legal science, through a strict separation of 'is' and 'ought', and in that he considers only positive law to be law. Although he never made much sense of the idea of 'custom', he included all public international law as 'law'.\n\nAt the same time, although it is not easy to reconcile with his rejection of practical reason, Kelsen was emphatic that politicians should support and make use of legal science. And legal scientists should assist them, for instance in law reform. Although if, when doing so, they go beyond the role of mere technician and recommend policy-based choices between possible norms, they will no longer be acting as legal scientists. For Kelsen, 'is' and 'ought' occupy separate worlds as a matter of logic, but not in practice. Their logical separation should be incorporated into practice.\n\nKelsen insisted that, if social scientists wished to deal with law, they would have to take their concept of law from legal science—that is, from the Pure Theory of Law. Kelsen made this point particularly against Max Weber, whose philosophical orientation and legal background were similar to his own. And, indeed, although Weber had said much about what is socially called 'law', he had not developed a clear concept of it himself.\n\nFor Kelsen as for other central European contemporaries, norms occur not singly but in sets, termed 'orders'. The ordering principle of an order of moral norms—and of an order of natural law, if one could exist—would be logical, as deduction. From the general norm 'do not kill other human beings', it follows deductively that A must not kill any other human being. Kelsen calls this a 'static' order. An order of positive law, he maintains, is not, or not centrally, like that. Although it forms a hierarchy, it is 'dynamic', in that its ordering principle is authorisation. Each relatively 'higher' norm authorises someone (an individual or an organ, primarily of the state) to create further and relatively 'lower' norms. In this is found the specific characteristic of positive law, hence of all law, that it regulates its own creation. Even though positive legal norms do commonly contain elements of generality, those elements are not central to the relation between a higher and a lower norm. This is a relation of legal 'validity' (not to be confused with logical validity), which is that the creation of the lower norm has been authorised by the higher norm. Since this moment of creation always involves extraneous considerations, Kelsen does not need to supplement his model with a concept of 'discretion'.\n\nWhat has to be consistent in a dynamic order of norms is only the process of authorising. This process can (and perhaps always does) result in multiple and mutually uneven strands of hierarchy, such as legislative, executive and judicial strands. In each strand, at every point in the process of norm-creation, many types of extra-legal factor may be taken into account—moral, political, economic and others. Kelsen notes that, in this respect, the Pure Theory of Law has an affinity with American 'legal realism'.\n\nAt the same time, the 'hierarchy' model does not readily fit a common-law system. It takes as its paradigm a single constitutional document under which codes and statutes are enacted, with both administration and adjudication in subordinate places. However, at least outside the United States, common-law systems are moving in the direction of that paradigm. The 'hierarchy' model also fits public law more readily than private law. It is difficult to be convinced by Kelsen's contention that, in private transactions, the parties are exercising legal authorisation.\n\nKelsen assumes, however, that the scientific representation of a positive-legal order, as a hierarchy of legal propositions, must have a guarantor of unity. This guarantor cannot be other than a component of the representation, hence a legal proposition. Being a legal proposition, it counts as a representation of an actual norm. So Kelsen calls it, elliptically, a 'basic norm (\"Grundnorm\")'. A basic norm is 'presupposed' in legal science for each order of positive law, to make it possible to understand that material as an order of positive law. This norm is simply that 'the historically first constitution is to be obeyed'. That constitution may have become established by custom or by revolution: the jurist does not evaluate the circumstances.\n\nKelsen was always aware that a 'constitution' (\"Verfassung\") might or might not be a single document. In some legal orders, indeed, it can be difficult to draw a line between 'constitutional' and other norms. In 1964, Kelsen relativised the idea of 'constitution', holding that each relatively higher legal norm is a 'constitution' in relation to any norm created under its authority. This need not, however, wholly supersede a narrower sense of 'constitution', which identifies those relatively 'high' legal norms that can be changed only through a specially onerous process such as a large parliamentary majority or a popular referendum.\n\nTo presuppose a basic norm for a particular positive-legal order does not involve any moral or other extra-legal evaluation of the basic norm's requirement of obedience. The jurist simply supposes that such a requirement has been stated. The jurist does so, irrespective of whether any such norm can be empirically discovered. At this point, serious difficulties emerge—with which Kelsen wrestled for much of his long life.\n\nOne part of the problem lay in his starting point, the question 'Why should the law be obeyed?'. He gives the idea of a basic norm two roles. In one role, it is the guarantor of unity in legal-scientific representation of a positive-legal order. In another role, it is an answer, for that legal order, to the obedience question—put in the more clearly descriptive form, 'Why is the law binding?'. One might think, rather, that to suppose for a particular positive-legal order simply that the historically first constitution (identified on this occasion) 'is to be obeyed' is instead to assume that a reason for obedience has already been established outside the legal order and beyond the ken of legal science. In that case, legal science would be seriously inadequate. On the other hand, if the reason for the bindingness of a legal norm is intrinsic to its 'legal' character, that reason might have to be sought in the 'legal' form of the individual norm and not in any kind of further guarantee.\n\nAnother part of the problem lay in the requirement that the 'basic' factor be, or count as, a norm. Early on, Kelsen may have supposed that there could be such a real norm. Later, however, the 'basic norm' was relegated to being only a 'hypothesis'. In a philosophical light, nonetheless, it had the status—in Kantian terms—of a 'transcendental-logical presupposition', a logical condition for the possibility of a certain kind of knowledge.\n\nEventually, Kelsen accepted the criticism that the concept of a basic norm involves an infinite regress. If the basic norm of a particular positive-legal order is an authorising norm, one can ask what is the source of the authority of the basic norm itself. If 'is' and 'ought' are to remain entirely separated, that can only be a still more 'basic' norm; and then the same question could be asked again, and so on infinitely. At this point, Kelsen took a further step back, accepting that the concept of a basic norm is doubly contradictory: it is self-contradictory in that it involves an infinite regress; in addition, since no such norm actually exists, to presuppose the existence of such a norm contradicts reality. The concept is a full 'fiction' in the sense to be found in Hans Vaihinger's 'philosophy of \"as if\"'. But then not much remains of it, although Kelsen evidently considered that what remained was vital.\nAnd there Kelsen ended, committed to an epistemology that was so radically relativistic as to challenge the very idea of authorisation. Nonetheless, if Kelsen does not provide an effective answer to the obedience question, he has posed that question—and many others—with exceptional sophistication.\n\nIdeas of natural law are also excluded by Kelsen's rejection of 'metaphysics' in a strong sense, supposing something supra-human. He similarly rejects duplication in ideas of 'the state' as a supra-human entity—rather than a mere, fictional personification of the national legal order. His main target, in the 1930s, was fascist theories of state and law, such as that of Carl Schmitt. But, for Kelsen, it is also an illusion to think that, in a \"Rechtsstaat\" (roughly, 'rule of law state'), 'the state' is wholly subject to law: from a 'legal point of view', the state and the positive-legal order are the same. It is likewise an illusion to think of a 'legal person', whether relating in fact to a number of real people or to a single real individual, as anything other than a fictional personification of a bundle of norms that are rights and duties pertaining to such people. This is simply so, however, only in the 'pure part' of legal science. Kelsen is perfectly well aware that, in the empirical part, 'the state' will turn out to be a heavily armed real apparatus. One can make a similar extrapolation for the reality of legal persons, where corporate legal persons would turn out to be organisations and individual legal persons to have gender, class, ethnicity and so on.\n\nDescriptively, the Pure Theory of Law has always been about power. A positive-legal order can be identified when there are norms that regulate their own creation through a process of authorisation and, in addition, the order itself is 'by and large effective'. Kelsen does not closely specify 'by and large', but he does attribute effectiveness to coercion. In this respect, there is some affinity with John Austin's 'command' theory of law. But Kelsen's approach is quite different from Austin's. Austin finds the defining characteristic of law on the plane of the signifier, in imperative utterances. Kelsen has almost no interest in the signifier but focuses on the signified: a 'norm' is an utterance that, whatever its grammatical form, has the meaning 'ought (\"Sollen\")'.\n\nAustin and Kelsen also differ in that, for Kelsen, legal norms are addressed primarily to officials. Officials are directed to apply sanctions to individuals when the individuals' behaviour does not conform to a pattern specified in the norm. It is anticipated that individuals, in choosing how they will behave, will take into account the possibility that an official will apply the sanction. In that way, norms and the orders to which they belong can be effective. However, most if not all jurists now accept H. L. A. Hart's point in \"The Concept of Law\", though directed principally against Austin, that not all legal norms are coercive—some, and some of the most important, are facilitative. The Pure Theory of Law can accommodate this by accepting that what matters most is not whether particular legal norms are coercive but whether, by containing coercive norms, the legal order as a whole is coercive—which Hart does not deny.\n\nIdentification of law as characteristically coercive is more difficult with public international law, but Kelsen finds sufficient sanctions.\n\nAs to the relation between public international law and national law, however, his position changed dramatically. In the first edition of \"Reine Rechtslehre\", 1934, like many liberal contemporaries he was an internationalist monist: he looked to public international law as global law, subsuming all national or state legal orders. This had the happy consequence that, in its contemporary application, the universality of the Pure Theory (and Kelsen insisted that only universal truths could be 'scientific') would coincide with that of predominantly global law.\n\nBy the end of World War II, however, he gave up on this aspiration as unrealistic and, with evident reluctance, accepted a sort of optional monism. He found equally tenable the view that the public international legal order is supremely valid and the view that each national or state legal order is—for itself, in a kind of 'solipsism'—supremely valid. The story of the 'basic norm' might be read as a battle to come to terms with the 'solipsist' option. Kelsen needed not to adopt such solipsism but to provide an account of it.\n\nFrom the mid-1960s until his death in 1973, Kelsen branched out into general theory of norms. In a longer view, it was a return to his youthful passion for philosophy. His notes on this were published posthumously in 1979 as \"Allgemeine Theorie der Normen\" and appeared in English translation in 1990 as \"General Theory of Norms\". This work, however, neither offers a completed general theory of norms nor goes far toward locating the Pure Theory of Law within a general theory of norms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3402906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3402906", "title": "Qaum", "text": "Qaum\n\nQaum (, ) or nation may refer to a community of people who share a common language, culture, ethnicity, descent, and/or history. In this definition, a \"nation\" has no physical borders. However, it can also refer to people who share a common territory and government (for example the inhabitants of a sovereign state) irrespective of their ethnic make-up. The protean word \"Qawm\" is of Arabic origin, and is used to refer to any form of solidarity.\n\nPakistani people are known as \"Pakistani Qaum\" (Urdu: ).\n\n"}
{"id": "1441332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1441332", "title": "Qui tam", "text": "Qui tam\n\nIn common law, a writ of qui tam is a writ whereby a private individual who assists a prosecution can receive all or part of any penalty imposed. Its name is an abbreviation of the Latin phrase qui tam pro domino rege quam pro se ipso in hac parte sequitur, meaning \"[he] who sues in this matter for the king as well as for himself.\"\n\nThe writ fell into disuse in England and Wales following the Common Informers Act 1951 but remains current in the United States under the False Claims Act, \"et seq.\", which allows a private individual, or \"whistleblower,\" with knowledge of past or present fraud committed against the federal government to bring suit on its behalf. There are also \"qui tam\" provisions in regarding arming vessels against friendly nations; regarding violating Indian protection laws; 46a U.S.C. 723 regarding the removal of undersea treasure from the Florida coast to foreign nations; and regarding false marking. In February 2011, the \"qui tam\" provision regarding false marking was held to be unconstitutional by a U.S. District Court, and in September of that year, the enactment of the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act effectively removed \"qui tam\" remedies from § 292.\n\nThe historical antecedents of \"qui tam\" statutes lie in Roman and Anglo-Saxon law. Roman criminal prosecutions were typically initiated by private citizens (\"delatores\") and beginning no later than the \"Lex Pedia\", it became common for Roman criminal statutes to offer a portion of the defendant's forfeited property to the initiator of the prosecution as a reward. Forerunners of \"qui tam\" actions also occurred in Anglo-Saxon England; in the year 656, Wihtred of Kent issued a decree that a Sabbath-breaker would \"forfeit his healsfang, and the man who informs against him shall have half the fine, and [the profits arising from] the labour.\"\n\nThe first \"qui tam\" statutes were enacted by the English Parliament in the fourteenth century, some 250 years after the Norman Conquest. Such \"qui tam\" enforcement allowed enforcement of the legislative priorities of the king, especially in areas where and at times when such legislation \"undermined local officials' interests.\"\n\nThe 1318 Statute of York, which set uniform prices for certain consumer goods, was an early English \"qui tam\" provision. The act prohibited city and borough officers from selling the regulated commodities (specifically, \"wine and victuals\"), and provided for forfeiture to the king of any prohibited merchandise. To ensure enforcement, the act provided that one-third of the forfeited merchandise \"shall be delivered to the Party that sued the Offender, as the King's Gift. And in such Case he that will sue [for a thing so forfeited,] shall be received.\"\n\nMore \"qui tam\" provisions were enacted over the next two centuries, rewarding informers. For example, the 1328 Statute of Northampton penalized (by forfeiture and fine) the holding of fairs by lords and merchants for longer than the authorized length, and provided that \"every man that will sue for our Lord the King, shall be received, and [also have] the Fourth Part of that which shall be lost at his Suit.\" Two Statutes of Labourers, enacted in 1349 and 1350, set wage and price controls and provided for informers to seek forfeiture from the violator, or from mayors or bailiffs who failed to enforce the regulations. A large number of other statutes, mostly affecting commercial regulations, also included \"qui tam\" provisions.\n\nSome qui tam statutes were targeted at ensuring the integrity of officials. For example:\n\nDuring the reign of Henry VII, \"qui tam\" enforcement was reformed to avoid abuses, such as collusive suits between defendants and informers meant to avoid punishment. A 1487 statute, among other reforms, made it a crime (punishable by two years' imprisonment) to collude with a \"qui tam\" informer.\n\nThe practice fell into disrepute in England in the 19th century by which time it was principally used to enforce laws related to Christian Sunday observance. It was brought to an effective end by the Common Informers Act 1951 but, in 2007, there were proposals to introduce legal provision on the U.S. model back to the United Kingdom.\n\n'Whistleblower' can mean any person who reveals misconduct by his or her employer or another business or entity. The misconduct may be in the form of breaking the law, committing fraud, or corruption. In the United States, that type of fraud may be a violation of the False Claims Act, or similar state and local laws, and a whistleblower who exposes fraud on the government may bring a \"qui tam\" lawsuit on behalf of the government and potentially receive a share of the recovery recovered by the government as a reward for bringing that action.\n\nWhistleblower protections have existed in the United States in colonial times, and were embraced by the first U.S. Congress as a way to enforce the laws when the new federal government had virtually no law enforcement officers.\n\nThe case of Richard Marven and Samuel Shaw led the Continental Congress to pass the first whistleblower law in the new United States in 1778. The Continental Congress was moved to act after an incident in 1777, when the two blew the whistle and suffered severe retaliation by Esek Hopkins, the commander-in-chief of the Continental Navy. The Continental Congress enacted the whistleblower protection law on July 30, 1778 by a unanimous vote. The Continental Congress declared it the duty of \"all persons in the service of the United States, as well as all other the inhabitants thereof\" to inform the Continental Congress or proper authorities of \"misconduct, frauds or misdemeanors committed by any officers in the service of these states, which may come to their knowledge.\" Congress declared that the United States would defend the two whistleblowers against a libel suit filed against them by Hopkins, resolving that \"the reasonable expences of defending the said suit be defrayed by the United States\" and terminated the employment of Hopkins, who had misconducted himself.\n\nThe American Civil War (1861–1865) was marked by fraud on all levels, especially with regard to Union War Department contracts. Some say the False Claims Act came about because of bad mules. During the Civil War, unscrupulous contractors sold the Union Army, among other things, decrepit horses and mules in ill health, faulty rifles and ammunition, and rancid rations and provisions. \n\nThe False Claims Act (, also called the \"Lincoln Law\") is an American federal law that was passed on March 2, 1863 during the American Civil War, that allows people who are not affiliated with the government to file actions against federal contractors claiming fraud against the government. The law represented an effort by the government to respond to entrenched fraud in cases where the official Justice Department was reluctant to prosecute fraud cases. Importantly, a reward was offered in what is called the \"qui tam\" provision, which permits citizens to sue on behalf of the government and be paid a percentage of the recovery.\n\nThe law was substantially weakened in 1943 during World War II while the government rushed to sign large military procurement contracts. It was strengthened again in 1986 after a period of military expansion at a time when there were many stories of defense contractor price gouging. Since then, \"qui tam\" provisions have helped recover more than $48 billion in taxpayer money.\n\nThe act of filing such actions is informally called \"whistleblowing.\" Persons filing under the Act stand to receive a portion (usually about 15-25 percent) of any recovered damages. The Act provides a legal tool to counteract fraudulent billings turned in to the federal government. Claims under the law have been filed by persons with insider knowledge of false claims which have typically involved health care, military, or other government spending programs.\n\nThe False Claims Act allows a private person, known as a \"relator,\" to bring a lawsuit on behalf of the United States, where the private detective or other person has information that the named defendant has knowingly submitted or caused the submission of false or fraudulent claims to the United States. In order to qualify as a \"relator\", pursuant to the Supreme Court's decision in Rockwell International Corp. v. United States, in order to bring an action that is based upon publicly disclosed information the person bringing the claim must legally qualify as an \"original source.\"\n\nThe relator need not have been personally harmed by the defendant's conduct; instead, the relator is recognized as receiving legal standing to sue by way of a \"partial assignment\" to the relator of the injury to the government caused by the alleged fraud. The information must not be public knowledge, unless the relator qualifies as an \"original source.\"\n\nThe False Claims Act provides incentive to relators by granting them between 15% and 25% of any award or settlement amount. In addition, the statute provides an award of the relator's attorneys' fees, making \"qui tam\" actions a popular topic for the plaintiff's bar. An individual bringing suit pro se—that is, without the representation of a lawyer—may not bring a \"qui tam\" action under the False Claims Act.\n\nOnce a relator brings suit on behalf of the government, the Department of Justice, in conjunction with a U.S. Attorney for the district in which the suit was filed, have the option to intervene in the suit. If the government does intervene, it will notify the company or person being sued that a claim has been filed. \"Qui tam\" actions are filed under seal, which has to be partially lifted by the court to allow this type of disclosure. The seal prohibits the defendant from disclosing even the mere existence of the case to anyone, including its shareholders, a fact which may cause conflicts with the defendant's obligation under Securities & Exchange Commission or stock exchange regulations that require it to disclose lawsuits that could materially affect stock prices. The government may subsequently, without disclosing the identity of the plaintiff or any of the facts, begin taking discovery from the defendant.\n\nIf the government does not decide to participate in a \"qui tam\" action, the relator may proceed alone without the Department of Justice, though such cases historically have a much lower success rate. Relators who do prevail in such cases may potentially receive a higher relator's share, to a maximum of 30%. It is conventionally thought that the government chooses legal matters it would prosecute because the government would only want to get involved in what it believes are winning cases.\n\nIt is an offense under (the \"False Marking Statute\") to falsely mark goods as \"patented\" or \"patent pending\". Before the enactment of the America Invents Act, any person could sue for breach, and the penalty of up to $500 was shared between the government and the person suing. Frequently, patentees fail to remove patent markings from their products following the expiration date of their patents and continue to mark goods sold after that date as patented. This behavior was largely overlooked until a court held that a separate penalty was due for each such article sold.\n\nIn 2011, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio held that the False Marking Statute was unconstitutional. Judge Dan Aaron Polster determined that it violated the of Article II of the Constitution, because it represented \"a wholesale delegation of criminal law enforcement power to private entities with no control exercised by the Department of Justice\".\n\nThe America Invents Act made significant changes to false marking laws, that affected all pending and future false marking actions:\n\n\n\nIn the provinces of Canada that observed the English common law, the \"qui tam\" action has had limited scope, although as recently as 1933 the Exchequer Court Act, R.S.C. 1927, c. 34 had language to the effect that \"qui tam\" was permitted in \"suits for penalties or forfeiture as where the suit is on behalf of the Crown alone.\" (Bank of Montreal v. Royal Bank of Canada, [1933] SCR 311; see sec 75(a) of RSC 1886 v2 c.135 \"Supreme and Exchequer Courts\"). Lawyers have used the \"qui tam\" action to prevent unwarranted intrusion into their domain by unqualified practitioners (1871: Allen Qui Tam v. Jarvis, 32 UCR 56). In cases like these, it would appear that the Crown is owed a bond from qualified practitioners, and the respondents—since they have not provided such a bond—are penalised by the courts. Allen in this case would seem to gain a fraction of the penalty exacted from Jarvis, the balance to the Crown.\n\n'Whistleblower' can mean any person who reveals misconduct by his or her employer or another business or entity. The misconduct may be in the form of breaking the law, committing fraud, or corruption. In the United States, that type of fraud may be a violation of the False Claims Act, or similar state and local laws, and a whistleblower who exposes fraud on the government may bring a \"qui tam\" lawsuit on behalf of the government and potentially receive a share of the recovery recovered by the government as a reward for bringing that action.\n\nIn order for a whistleblower (also known as a \"relator\" in the context of the FCA) to bring a \"qui tam\" action that is based upon publicly disclosed information, that person must legally qualify as an \"original source.\" See \"Rockwell International Corp. v. United States\".\n\n\n\n\nAdd US DEPT. OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL as a link."}
{"id": "15604083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15604083", "title": "Regulation of acupuncture", "text": "Regulation of acupuncture\n\nRegulation of acupuncture is done by governmental bodies to ensure safe practice.\n\nIn Japan, acupuncture practitioners are licensed by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare after passing an examination and graduating from a technical school or university.\n\nIn 2000, the Chinese Medicine Registration Board of Victoria, Australia (CMBV) was established as an independent government agency to oversee the practice of Chinese Herbal Medicine and Acupuncture in the state. In 2005 the Parliamentary Committee on the Health Care Complaints Commission in the Australian state of New South Wales commissioned a report investigating Traditional Chinese medicine practice. They recommended the introduction of a government-appointed registration board that would regulate the profession by restricting use of the titles \"acupuncturist\", \"Chinese herbal medicine practitioner\" and \"Chinese medicine practitioner\". The aim of registration was to protect the public from the risks of acupuncture by ensuring a high baseline level of competency and education of registered acupuncturists, enforcing guidelines regarding continuing professional education and investigating complaints of practitioner conduct. Currently acupuncturists in NSW are bound by the guidelines in the Public Health (Skin Penetration) Regulation 2000 which is enforced at local council level. In 2012 the CMBV became the Chinese Medicine Board of Australia, and in 2013 established an interim accreditation standard for the profession in partnership with the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency. The legislation put in place stipulates that only practitioners who are state-registered may use the following titles: Acupuncture, Chinese Medicine, Chinese Herbal Medicine, Registered Acupuncturist, Registered Chinese Medicine Practitioner, and Registered Chinese Herbal Medicine Practitioner.\n\nIn Canada the provinces of British Columbia, Ontario, Alberta and Quebec have acupuncture licensing programs. In many provinces that are not subject to government regulation, employers will require candidates qualify for membership at the local chapter of the Chinese Medicine and Acupuncture Association of Canada. The province of Ontario, Canada, created the Traditional Chinese Medicine Act in 2006, which created the College of Traditional Chinese Practitioners and Acupuncturists. To be licensed in Ontario, acupuncturists need to register with the college, pass a series of tests and demonstrate an experience-equivalent of having seen more than 2,000 patients over five years.\n\nIn Quebec, the practice of acupuncture has been regulated since 1995 by the Ordre des acupuncteurs du Québec (OAQ).\n\nSince 1955, the French advisory body Académie Nationale de Médecine (\"National Academy of Medicine\") has accepted acupuncture as part of medical practice. Acupuncture is also routinely reimbursed by social security when performed or prescribed by a doctor or practitioner.\n\nAt least 28 countries in Europe have professional associations for acupuncturists.\n\nFollowing the German acupuncture trials from 2006 to 2007, the Federal Joint Committee (an agency similar to the National Institutes of Health in the United States) passed a law which allows the reimbursement of acupuncture treatment by the public health insurance system for the following ailments: chronic lower back pain and chronic knee pain caused by osteoarthritis. In 2006, German researchers published the results of one of the first and largest randomized controlled clinical trials. As a result of the trial's conclusions, some insurance corporations in Germany no longer reimburse acupuncture treatments. The trials also had a negative impact on acupuncture in the international community.\n\nTraditional/lay acupuncture is not a regulated health profession. Osteopaths have a scope of practice for Western Medical Acupuncture and Related Needling Techniques. The state-owned Accident Compensation Corporation reimburses for acupuncture treatment by registered health care practitioners and some traditional/lay acupuncturists that belong to voluntary professional associations.\n\nAcupuncturists are not a nationally regulated profession in the United Kingdom. Acupuncture practice is regulated by law in England and Wales for health and safety criteria under The Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1982, which has been recently amended by the Local Government Act 2003. Each local authority implements its own policy in accordance with the Act. For example, the London boroughs use the London Local Authorities Act, 1991/2000. Premises and each practitioner offering acupuncture must be licensed. As there is no formal certification of acupuncture, practitioners are exempted from licensing by virtue of being current members of approved acupuncture associations such as the British Acupuncture Council. Physiotherapists are also required to be current members of an approved acupuncture association as body piercing is not part of the entry level curriculum for state registered physiotherapists regulated by the Health Professions Council. The approved acupuncture organisations have rigorous codes of practice and educational requirements and members are covered by the appropriate indemnity insurance. An estimated 7,500 practitioners practise acupuncture to some extent and belong to a relevant professional or regulatory body. About 2,400 are traditional acupuncturists who mostly belong to the British Acupuncture Council, which requires its members to be trained in both traditional acupuncture and relevant biomedical sciences. Approximately 2,200 registered doctors and other statutorily regulated health professionals belong to the British Medical Acupuncture Society. Some 6,000 physiotherapists belong to the Acupuncture Association of Chartered Physiotherapists and 250 nurses belong to the British Academy of Western Acupuncture. There are also practitioners of Traditional Chinese Medicine who belong to one or more associations.\n\nThe principal body for professional standards in traditional/lay acupuncture is the British Acupuncture Council, The British Medical Acupuncture Society an inter-disciplinary professional body for regulated health professional using acupuncture as a modality. The Acupuncture Association of Chartered Physiotherapists.\n\nAcupuncturists in the United States are trained and licensed according to criteria set by three professional organizations, all founded in the early 1980's:\n\nAcupuncture regulation in the US began in the 1970s, prompted by an article by New York Times reporter James Reston. In 1973, Nevada became the first US state in the nation to authorizing the practice of acupuncture, and many states thereafter followed suit.\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration first regulated acupuncture needles in 1972 as \"investigational devices\" and later recognized needles for acupuncture uses in 1996. In 1996, the Food and Drug Administration changed the status of acupuncture needles from Class III to Class II medical devices, meaning that needles are regarded as safe and effective when used appropriately by licensed practitioners.\n\nAs of 2004, nearly 50% of Americans who were enrolled in employer health insurance plans were covered for acupuncture treatments.\n\nPhysical therapists (PTs) in New Jersey must end their use of dry needling by the end of August, after the State Attorney General’s office ruled that it was not part of a PT’s legal scope of practice. \n"}
{"id": "8345087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8345087", "title": "Restatement (Second) of Contracts", "text": "Restatement (Second) of Contracts\n\nThe Restatement (Second) of the Law of Contracts is a legal treatise from the second series of the Restatements of the Law, and seeks to inform judges and lawyers about general principles of contract common law. It is one of the best-recognized and frequently cited legal treatises in all of American jurisprudence. Every first year law student in the United States is exposed to it, and it is a frequently cited non-binding authority in all of U.S. common law in the areas of contracts and commercial transactions. It is a work without peer in terms of overall influence and recognition among the bar and bench, with the possible exception of the Restatement of Torts. The American Law Institute began work on the second edition in 1962 and completed it in 1979; the version in use at present has a copyright year of 1981.\n\nFor an explanation of the purpose of a restatement of law, see Restatement of the Law.\n\nLegal scholars and jurists have commented extensively on the Restatement, both in contrasting it with aspects of the first Restatement, and in evaluating its influence and effectiveness in reaching its stated objectives. It is in this context of \"direct review\" that one can find numerous arguments both favoring and criticizing some aspects of the Restatement as an independent source of legal scholarship.\n\nAlthough several sections of the Restatement contained new rules which sometimes contradicted existing law, courts citing these sections have predominantly adopted the Restatement's view, citing them as a court would cite statute or code.\n\nFar more common, however, is the practice of citing the Restatement to clarify generally accepted doctrine in every major area of contract and commercial law. It is in this context of \"legal research\" that one can find the Restatement used as direct substantiation and persuasive authority, to validate the arguments and interpretations of individual legal practitioners.\n\nAlthough the Restatement of Contracts is still an influential academic work, certain aspects have been superseded in everyday legal practice by the Uniform Commercial Code. Specifically, the UCC has replaced the Restatement (Second) of Contracts in regard to the sale of goods. The Restatement (Second) of Contracts remains the unofficial authority for aspects of contract law which find their genesis in the common law principles of the United States and, previously, England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12642984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12642984", "title": "STIM", "text": "STIM\n\nSTIM, \"Svenska Tonsättares Internationella Musikbyrå\", is a Swedish collecting society for songwriters, composers and music publisher. Its role is to act as an agent for its members in order to collect license fees whenever their musical works are performed in public, broadcast or transmitted, and to pay out performing royalties.\n\nSTIM was founded in 1923, a few years before Sveriges Radio began regular broadcasting. Initially an organization for collecting concert fees for composers of classical music, it has since expanded to all genres of music, and license fees from broadcasters have become an important source of income. The organization now has more than 71,000 members. In 2003-2007 the annual turnover was slightly more than 1000 million SEK.\n\nOnce an organization is set up, representing a majority of copyright holders within a type of works (as STIM is for composers of recorded music), Swedish copyright law (1960:729, chapter 3a, sections §42a–f) grants users of such works (e.g. broadcasters that use recorded music) the right to use all such works under a single contract with that organization. The collected fees are set by STIM, depending on the size of the audience but independent of the individual work or composer. An individual composer who disagrees, must actively opt out (§42b–e, 2nd paragraph) of this collective arrangement. A composer who wants a share of the fees has to join STIM as a member.\n\nCopyrights are administered through another organization NCB of which STIM is part owner.\n\n"}
{"id": "28948364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28948364", "title": "Schalk and Kopf v Austria", "text": "Schalk and Kopf v Austria\n\nSchalk and Kopf v Austria (Application no. 30141/04) is a case decided in 2010 by the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in which it was clarified that the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) does not oblige member states to legislate for or legally recognize same-sex marriages.\n\nThe applicants are a same-sex couple living in Vienna, Austria. On 10 September 2002 they requested the Office for matters of Personal Status (Standesamt) to proceed with the formalities to enable them to contract marriage. By decision of 20 December 2002 the Vienna Municipal Office (Magistrat) refused the applicants’ request. Referring to Article 44 of the Civil Code (Allgemeines Bürgerliches Gesetzbuch), it held that marriage could only be contracted between two persons of opposite sex. According to constant case-law, a marriage concluded by two persons of the same sex was null and void. Since the applicants were two men, they lacked the capacity for contracting marriage.\nThe applicants then lodged an appeal with the Vienna Regional Governor (Landeshauptmann), which was also dismissed. In his decision of 11 April 2003, the Governor confirmed the Municipal Office’s legal view. In addition he referred to the Administrative Court’s (Verwaltungsgerichtshof) case-law according to which it constituted an impediment to marriage if the two persons concerned were of the same sex.\n\nThe ultimate and final remedy for the applicants was a complaint to the Constitutional Court (Verfassungsgerichtshof). In this complaint the applicants alleged that the legal impossibility for them to get married constituted a violation of their constitutional right to respect for private and family life and of the principle of non-discrimination. (Austria treats the ECHR as part of its own constitutional law. The legal provisions referred to by the applicants were thus those set out in Articles 12, 8 and 14 of the Convention). They argued that the notion of marriage had evolved since the entry into force of the Civil Code in 1812. In particular, the procreation and education of children no longer formed an integral part of marriage. In present-day perception, marriage was rather a permanent union encompassing all aspects of life. There was no objective justification for excluding same-sex couples from concluding marriage, all the more so since the European Court of Human Rights had acknowledged that differences based on sexual orientation required particularly weighty reasons. Other European countries either allowed same-sex marriages or had otherwise amended their legislation in order to give equal status to same-sex partnerships.\n\nOn 12 December 2003 the Constitutional Court dismissed the applicants’ complaint. The relevant parts of its judgment read as follows:\n“Neither the principle of equality set forth in the Austrian Federal Constitution nor the European Convention on Human Rights (as evidenced by “men and women” in Article 12) require that the concept of marriage as being geared to the fundamental possibility of parenthood should be extended to relationships of a different kind. \n\"The fact that same-sex relationships fall within the concept of private life and as such enjoy the protection of Article 8 of the ECHR – which also prohibits discrimination on non-objective grounds (Article 14 of the ECHR) – does not give rise to an obligation to change the law of marriage.\n\"It is unnecessary in the instant case to examine whether, and in which areas, the law unjustifiably discriminates against same-sex relationships by providing for special rules for married couples. Nor is it the task of this court to advise the legislature on constitutional issues or even matters of legal policy.\"\n\"Instead, the complaint must be dismissed as ill-founded.”\"\n\nThe applicants claimed that Austria's failure to legally recognise same-sex marriages constituted a violation of Article 12 ECHR, which provides\nas follows:\n“Men and women of marriageable age have the right to marry and to found a family, according to the national laws governing the exercise of this right.”\n\nThe Court unanimously dismissed this claim:\n\n\"The Court notes that Article 12 grants the right to marry to “men and women”. The French version provides « l’homme et la femme ont le droit de se marier ». Furthermore, Article 12 grants the right to found a family. The applicants argued that the wording did not necessarily imply that a man could only marry a woman and vice versa. The Court observes that, looked at in isolation, the wording of Article 12 might be interpreted so as not to exclude the marriage between two men or two women. However, in contrast, all other substantive Articles of the Convention grant rights and freedoms to “everyone” or state that “no one” is to be subjected to certain types of prohibited treatment. The choice of wording in Article 12 must thus be regarded as deliberate. Moreover, regard must be had to the historical context in which the Convention was adopted. In the 1950s marriage was clearly understood in the traditional sense of being a union between partners of different sex.\"\n\nAs a subsidiary argument, the applicants complained under Article 14 taken in conjunction with Article 8 of the Convention that they had been discriminated against on account of their sexual orientation, since they were denied the right to marry. \n\nAddressing this part of the complaint, the ECtHR pointed out the following:\n\n\"Insofar as the applicants appear to contend that, if not included in Article 12, the right to marry might be derived from Article 14 taken in conjunction with Article 8, the Court is unable to share their view. It reiterates that the Convention is to be read as a whole and its Articles should therefore be construed in harmony with one another. Having regard to the conclusion reached above, namely that Article 12 does not impose an obligation on Contracting States to grant same-sex couples access to marriage, Article 14 taken in conjunction with Article 8, a provision of more general purpose and scope, cannot be interpreted as imposing such an obligation either.\" \n\nThe applicants also saw these articles as violated by lack of legal recognition of same-sex couples in Austria before 2010. The Court responded:\n\nThe Court cannot but note that there is an emerging European consensus towards legal recognition of same-sex couples. Moreover, this tendency has developed rapidly over the past decade. Nevertheless, there is not yet a majority of States providing for legal recognition of same-sex couples. The area in question must therefore still be regarded as one of evolving rights with no established consensus, where States must also enjoy a margin of appreciation in the timing of the introduction of legislative changes (..) The Austrian Registered Partnership Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2010, reflects the evolution described above and is thus part of the emerging European consensus. Though not in the vanguard, the Austrian legislator cannot be reproached for not having introduced the Registered Partnership Act any earlier\"\n\nJudges Rozakis, Spielmann and Tulkens dissented in this respect, stating:\n\nHaving identified a “relevantly similar situation” (para. 99), and emphasised that “differences based on sexual orientation require particularly serious reasons by way of justification” (para. 97), the Court should have found a violation of Article 14 taken in conjunction with Article 8 of the Convention because the respondent Government did not advance any argument to justify the difference of treatment, relying in this connection mainly on their margin of appreciation (para. 80). However, in the absence of any cogent reasons offered by the respondent Government to justify the difference of treatment, there should be no room to apply the margin of appreciation. Consequently, the “existence or non-existence of common ground between the laws of the Contracting States” (para. 98) is irrelevant as such considerations are only a subordinate basis for the application of the concept of the margin of appreciation. Indeed, it is only in the event that the national authorities offer grounds for justification that the Court can be satisfied, taking into account the presence or the absence of a common approach, that they are better placed than it is to deal effectively with the matter\n\nThe Court, for the first time, has accepted same-sex relationships as a form of \"family life\". The statement runs as follows:\n\n\"...the Court’s case-law has only accepted that the emotional and sexual relationship of a same-sex couple constitutes “private life” but has not found that it constitutes “family life”, even where a long term relationship of cohabiting partners was at stake. In coming to that conclusion, the Court observed that despite the growing tendency in a number of European States towards the legal and judicial recognition of stable de facto partnerships between gay people, given the existence of\nlittle common ground between the Contracting States, this was an area in which they still enjoyed a wide margin of appreciation.\"\nThe Court notes that (...) a rapid evolution of social attitudes towards same-sex couples has taken place in many member States. Since then a considerable number of member States have afforded legal recognition to same-sex couples (see above, paragraphs 27-30). Certain provisions of EU law also reflect a growing tendency to include same-sex couples in the notion of “family”(...).\nIn view of this evolution the Court considers it artificial to maintain the view that, in contrast to a different-sex couple, a same-sex couple cannot enjoy “family life” for the purposes of Article 8. Consequently the relationship of the applicants, a cohabiting same-sex couple living in a stable de facto partnership, falls within the notion of “family life”, just as the relationship of a different-sex couple in the same situation would.\"\n\nHowever, this constitutes a mere obiter dictum that had no impact on the outcome of the case.\n\nAnother obiter dictum of the Court concerns Article 8 of the EU Fundamental Rights Charter:\n\nRegard being had to Article 8 of the Charter, therefore, the Court would no longer consider that the right to marry enshrined in Article 12 must in all circumstances be limited to marriage between two persons of the opposite sex. Consequently, it cannot be said that Article 12 is inapplicable to the applicants' complaint\"\n\nJudge Malinverni in his concurrence has objected to this \"obiter dictum\": \n\nArticle 12 is inapplicable to persons of the same sex. Admittedly, in guaranteeing the right to marry, Article 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union deliberately omitted any reference to men and women, since it provides that “the right to marry and to found a family shall be guaranteed in accordance with the national laws governing the exercise of these rights”. In my opinion, however, no inferences can be drawn from this as regards the interpretation of Article 12 of our Convention. The commentary on the Charter does indeed confirm that the drafters of Article 8 intended it to be broader in scope than the corresponding articles in other international treaties. However, it should not be forgotten that Article 8 of the Charter guarantees the right to marry and to found a family “in accordance with the national laws governing the exercise of these rights”.\nBy referring in this way to the relevant domestic legislation, Article 8 of the Charter simply leaves it to States to decide whether they wish to afford homosexual couples the right to marry. However, as the commentary quite rightly points out, “there is no obstacle to recognize same-sex relationships in the context of marriage. There is, however, no explicit requirement that domestic laws should facilitate such marriages.” In my view, Article 8 of the Charter should therefore have no bearing on the interpretation of Article 12 of the Convention as conferring a right to marry only on persons of different sexes\n\nJudges Rozakis, Jebens and Spielmann submitted a joint dissenting opinion, arguing that lack of legal recognition of same-sex couples in Austria before 2010 constituted violation of Article 14 in conjunction with Article 8.\n\nJudge Malinverni, joined by judge Kovler, submitted a concurring opinion, arguing that Article 12 could under no circumstances be construed as referring to same-sex couples.\n\nA request of the unsuccessful applicants to refer the case to a Grand Chamber was rejected by the Court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31709127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31709127", "title": "Supreme Electoral Council (Turkey)", "text": "Supreme Electoral Council (Turkey)\n\nThe Supreme Electoral Council (, YSK) is the highest electoral authority in Turkey. It was established by the Deputies Election Law no. 5545 on 16 February 1950. After the 1960 coup, the Supreme Electoral Council gained constitutional authority by the Constitution of 1961. Its duty is to ensure that the principles and rules of the constitution are upheld.\n\nThe Supreme Electoral Council consists of a president, six members and four substitute members from the Court of Cassation and the Council of State judges.\n\n"}
{"id": "51088438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51088438", "title": "Tafwid", "text": "Tafwid\n\nTafwid () is an Arabic term meaning \"relegation\" or \"delegation\", with uses in theology and law.\n\nIn Islamic theology, \"tafwid\" (or \"tafwid al-amr li-llah\", relegation of matters to God) is a doctrine according to which the meanings of the ambiguous verses of the Qur'an should be consigned to God alone. Those who follow this school do not utilize metaphorical interpretation, rather they leave problematic texts uninterpreted, believing that the reality of their meaning should be left to the one who said them, implying their unknowability. \n\nThe doctrine of \"tafwid\", which was held by a number of classical scholars such as al-Ghazali and whose origin they attributed to the \"salaf\" (exemplary early Muslims), states that the Quranic expressions such as 'God's hands' or 'face' do not carry the literal meanings like their counterparts in human beings. Rather they are attributes or qualities of God and not organs like the face or hands of human beings. Other classical figures who subscribed to this doctrine were Ibn Qudamah, Suyuti, Ahmad Ibn Hanbal and Ibn Kathir. The latter discusses \"Tafwid\" as follows:\"People have said a great deal on this topic and this is not the place to expound on what they have said. On this matter, we follow the early Muslims (salaf): Malik, Awza'i, Thawri, Layth ibn Sa'd, Shafi'i, Ahmad ibn Hanbal, Ishaq Ibn Rahwayh, and others among the Imams of the Muslims, both ancient and modern that is, to let (the verse in question) pass as it has come, without saying how it is meant (min ghayr takyif), without likening it to created things (wa la tashbih), and without nullifying it (wa la ta'til): The literal meaning (zahir) that occurs to the minds of anthropomorphists (al-mushabbihin) is negated of Allah, for nothing from His creation resembles Him: \"There is nothing whatsoever like unto Him, and He is the All-Hearing, the All-Seeing\" (Qur'an 42:11)\"\n\nThe precise nature of \"tafwid\" has been subject to debate among Muslim scholars. The followers of Ibn Taymiyya, including contemporary Salafis, hold that only the modality of the attributes should be consigned to God (\"tafwid al-kayfiyya\"), while the literal sense of the attributes should be accepted according to their lexical meaning in the Arabic language. Thus they argue that the \"salaf\" accepted that God has a hand, because the meaning of the word \"hand\" (\"yad\") was known, but without assuming that God's hand is comparable to a human hand, or asking how or why that is. In contrast, anti-Salafi scholars reject this distinction and accept \"tafwid\" without qualification.\n\nIn Islamic personal status law, \"tafwid\" refers to a sub-type of divorce (\"talaq al-tafwid\" or \"tafwid al-talaq\") in which the power of \"talaq\" (the type of divorce normally initiated by the husband) is delegated to the wife. This delegation can be made at the time of drawing up the marriage contract or during the marriage, with or without conditions. Classical jurists differed as to the validity of different forms of delegation. Most modern Muslim-majority countries permit this type of divorce in some form.\n\nThe term \"tafwid\" has also been used in law with various other meanings related to delegation of power, authorization of an act, or issuance of a warrant for arrest.\n"}
{"id": "18285158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18285158", "title": "Testimony in Jewish law", "text": "Testimony in Jewish law\n\nTestimony in Jewish law consists of testimony by eligible witnesses to a Beit Din (court) authorized to render decisions according to \"halakhah\" (Jewish law). Eligible witnesses must in almost all cases be free men who are not deaf, mentally or morally unsuitable, or too young for Bar Mitzvah; in particular, women are in most cases not eligible. The principles of testimony in halakhah have been applied to Mishpat Ivri (Hebrew jurisprudence).\n\nA valid witness to an event in \"halakhah\" must have seen the event with his eyes or heard it with his ears. Generally hearsay from another person is inadmissible, except in rare cases such as confirming that a missing husband has died (see Agunah). A Beit Din may accept testimony only from a witness who speaks directly to the judges, not from a written deposition. A witness may not recant his testimony.\n\nThe Torah says (Deuteronomy 19:15): \"One witness shall not arise against a man for any sin or guilt that he may commit; according to two witnesses or according to three witnesses a matter shall stand.\" Thus, two witnesses provide conclusive proof of reality, but one witness does not. (However, the testimony of one witness can require a defendant to swear to his innocence or else pay the debt alleged against him.)\n\nIn monetary law two witnesses may absolutely require someone to pay a debt or absolve them from that obligation. In capital cases two witnesses may testify that a person has committed a crime punishable by the death penalty in Jewish law, and the Sanhedrin may execute the person on their word; however capital punishment is no longer applied.\n\nThe testimony of two witnesses is equal in its force to the testimony of three or more witnesses. Thus if two witnesses say an event occurred, and one hundred witnesses say it did not occur, the groups of witnesses are considered to contradict one another, but no more weight is given to the larger group; other evidence is needed to reach a judgment. If one of the witnesses is disqualified, his entire group is disqualified, even if the other witnesses are themselves qualified and could present a valid testimony without his assistance. (Source: Makkot chapter 1.)\n\nIn monetary law examination of witnesses is less stringent than in capital law, and testimony is accepted even despite minor contradictions that may exist in the testimony of two separate witnesses. (If one witness says a defendant owes 100, and the other says the sum is 200, the judges accept that both witnesses agree to the existence of a 100 lien, even though only one witness testifies to each individual lien. Similarly, if one witness says a defendant owes 100 based on a loan granted on Monday, and another witness says the debt is 100 based on a loan granted on Thursday, the defendant is considered to owe 100 by the combined testimony of the two witnesses even though they disagree as to the source of the obligation.) In contrast, in capital cases the judges threaten the witnesses by warning of the consequences of perjury (source: Mishnah Sanhedrin chapter 4), and they ask many questions and will invalidate testimony even for minor inconsistencies, even if the contradiction seems substantively irrelevant to the case at hand. The purpose of these stringencies is to prevent the killing of an innocent defendant.\n\nIn some instances two witnesses are required to perform a certain action, such as \"kiddushin\" (betrothal). If there are not two valid witnesses, the \"kiddushin\" does not take effect. These are ceremonial witnesses (Hebrew: \"eidei kiyum\"). Likewise, a shtar requires two witnesses, and in particular a Get (divorce document) requires two witnesses to sign the document or see the delivery.\n\nWitnesses in monetary cases are evidentiary: even if they do not witness a robbery, the robber is still obligated to compensate the owner for damages (although there may be no way to prove this fact). Evidentiary witnesses are known in Hebrew as \"eidei beirur\".\n\nA pair of witnesses may be invalidated if:\n\nA lone witness cannot give testimony in capital cases. His testimony is useless unless there is a second witness to join him. In monetary cases a lone witness has limited powers. He can require a defendant to take an oath stating that the defendant is in the right, and if the defendant refuses to take the oath he must pay instead. (In most cases, it is at the defendant's discretion whether to swear but, in rare instances, the court may require the defendant to pay without the option of swearing [Shevu'ot chapter 7].)\n\nIn the case of a classical Agunah, a woman whose husband has disappeared and it is not known whether the husband is still alive, a single witness (even a woman or slave, normally invalid as witnesses) may testify that the husband has died, and on that basis the woman may remarry.\n\nTestimony of a deaf, mentally incompetent or young person (before Bar Mitzvah) is excluded. Testimony from women is also generally excluded. Anyone who is caught guilty of a sin which demonstrates greed, i.e. who sins in order to acquire money, is also disqualified.\n\nTractate Sanhedrin lists other categories of witnesses who are disqualified.\n\nThe Talmud, in the third chapter of Sanhedrin, delineates the rules governing who may provide written or oral testimony. A valid witness in a Jewish Beit Din must be an adult (see Bar Mitzvah) free man, not a woman or a slave, and not be related to any of the other witnesses or judges. The witness must be an honest person who can be trusted not to lie.\n\nThe Mishnah (Sanhedrin 24b) states: \"The following people are disqualified: a gambler with dice, a lender who collects interest, a chaser of doves, and a merchant who profits from produce of Shemittah.\" The Talmud explains that each of these four activities falls within an expanded definition of theft because people who violate Torah laws or social norms in pursuit of money cannot be trusted to tell the truth. \"Chasers of doves\" are those training them for races (or to lure other people's birds away), as well as those who bet on them; it includes pigeons, and by extension the use and luring of any animals in such fashion, domesticated or otherwise.\n\nAdditionally, \"one who eats in the street is comparable to a dog, and there are those who say that he is disqualified from serving as a witness.\" (Talmud, Kiddushin 40b)\n\nHowever, anyone who has engaged in these forbidden activities may be reinstated upon undertaking a complete reversal to demonstrate especially honest conduct by renouncing a permitted activity.\n"}
{"id": "42823928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42823928", "title": "Tony Cliff", "text": "Tony Cliff\n\nTony Cliff (born Yigael Gluckstein (); 20 May 1917 – 9 April 2000) was a Trotskyist activist. Born to a Jewish family in what is now Israel, he moved to Britain in 1947 and by the end of the 1950s had assumed the pen name of Tony Cliff. A founding member of the Socialist Review Group, which eventually became the Socialist Workers Party, in 1977 Cliff became effectively the leader.\n\nTony Cliff was born Yigael Gluckstein in Zikhron Ya'akov in the Ottoman Empire's Mutasarrifate of Jerusalem, now part of Israel, during World War I, one of four children born to Akiva and Esther Gluckstein, Jewish immigrants from Poland who had come to Palestine as part of the Second Aliyah. His father was an engineer and contractor. He had two brothers and a sister. His brother Chaim later became a notable journalist, theater critic, and translator. Through his sister Alexandra, he was the uncle of Israeli graphic designer David Tartakover. He grew up in British-ruled Mandatory Palestine. Notable Zionist activist and future Israeli Prime Minister Moshe Sharett was a family friend and frequent visitor to his family home, and he had two prominent uncles: the noted doctor Hillel Yaffe and agronomist and Zionist activist Chaim Margaliot Kalvarisky. In his youth, he came to identify with Communism, though he never joined the Communist Party of Palestine, as he had not met any of its members before becoming a socialist activist. However, he did join the socialist-Zionist youth movement Hashomer Hatzair, and soon became not only a Trotskyist in 1933, but also a confirmed opponent of Zionism. Along with other Hashomer Hatzair members, he joined the illegal Palestine Revolutionary Communist League, necessitating the use of several pseudonyms in three languages.\n\nDuring World War II, Gluckstein was imprisoned by the British authorities. After his release he moved to Britain in 1947, but was never able to become a citizen and remained a stateless person for the rest of his life. To the end of his life he spoke English with a distinct Israeli accent. He was for a while deported to the Republic of Ireland and was only permitted to take up British residency due to the status of Chanie Rosenberg, his wife, as a British citizen. Living in London he again became active with the Revolutionary Communist Party, on to the leadership of which he had been co-opted. For most purposes Gluckstein was a supporter of the leadership of the RCP around Jock Haston, and as such he was involved with the discussions concerning the nature of those states dominated by Russia and the Communist parties initiated by a faction within the RCP. This debate was linked to other discussions on the nationalised industries in Britain and the increasingly critical stance of Haston and the RCP as to the leadership of the Fourth International with regard to Eastern Europe and Yugoslavia in particular.\n\nOn the break-up of the RCP his supporters joined Gerry Healy's group The Club although, having been deported to Ireland, Gluckstein himself did not. In 1950 he helped launch the \"Socialist Review\" Group which was based around a journal of the same name. This was to be the main publication for which Gluckstein wrote during the 1950s, until it was superseded by \"International Socialism\" in 1960, eventually ceasing publication altogether in 1962.\n\nBy the time he gained permanent residency in Britain his supporters in The Club had been expelled due to differences on Birmingham Trades Council regarding socialist policy concerning the war in Korea, where Gluckstein's co-factionalists refused to take a position of support for either side in the war.\n\nOwing to his lack of established residency rights in Britain and during his earlier exile in Ireland the name Roger or Roger Tennant was used as a pseudonym. The first edition of his short book on Rosa Luxemburg in 1959 was possibly the first use of the pen name 'Tony Cliff'. In the 1960s Cliff would revive many of his earlier pseudonyms in the pages of \"International Socialism\" in which journal reviews are to be found by Roger, Roger Tennant, Sakhry, Lee Rock and Tony Cliff, but none by Yigael or Yg'al Gluckstein.\n\nHis group was renamed the International Socialists in 1962, and was to grow from fewer than 100 members in 1960 until it claimed in the region of 3,000 in 1977, at which point it was renamed the Socialist Workers Party (SWP). Cliff remained a leading member until his death in 2000. He was central to the various reorientations carried out in the SWP from time to time to react to changes in the situation of the working class. In particular, after the high level of strike activity in the early seventies, he argued in the late seventies that the working class movement was entering a \"downturn\" and that the party's activity should be radically changed as a result. A fierce debate ensued, which Cliff's side eventually won. Trotskyist writer Samuel Farber, a long-time supporter of the International Socialist Organization in the US, has argued that the internal party regime established by Cliff during this period is \"reminiscent of the one established by Zinoviev in the mid-twenties in the USSR\" consequently leading to the various crises and splits in the group later on.\n\nCliff's biography is, as he himself remarked, inseparable from that of the groups of which he was a leading member.\n\nShortly before his death he underwent a major surgical operation on his heart.\n\nCliff was a revolutionary socialist in the Trotskyist tradition attempting to make Lenin's theory of the party effective in the present day. Much of his theoretical writing was aimed at immediate tasks of the Party at the time.\n\nSince then the consensus in most Trotskyist groups has been that all the states dominated by Stalinist parties and characterised by state planning and state ownership of property are to be seen as 'degenerated workers' states' (The Soviet Union) or 'deformed workers' states' (other Stalinist states, including much of Eastern Europe). In many ways Cliff was the main dissident from this idea although some of his opponents have sought to associate his state capitalist view with other ideas, for example the theory of 'bureaucratic collectivism' associated with Shachtmanite Workers Party in the United States. However Cliff himself was insistent that his ideas owed nothing to those of Max Shachtman, or earlier proponents of the theory such as Bruno Rizzi, and made this clear in his \"Bureaucratic Collectivism – A Critique.\" Nevertheless, in the 1950s his group distributed literature published by Shachtman's group and the theory of the 'permanent arms economy' which was considered one of the pillars of what became the International Socialist Tendency originated with Shachtman's group though it is sometimes alleged that Cliff refused to acknowledge this publicly.\n\n\nCliff had little or no time for any activities not directly linked to the needs of building his party (with the exception of caring for his family). He did not drink or smoke, or socialise very much. Cliff's wife, Chanie Rosenberg, was herself an active member successively of the SRG, IS and SWP, in which she remains active. As well as authoring many articles on social questions for the group's publications, she was an activist in the National Union of Teachers until her retirement. In addition, three of the couple's four children became members of the SWP, with one son, Donny Gluckstein, co-authoring two books with his father.\n\nCliff is depicted as Jimmy Rock of the Rockers in Tariq Ali's satire \"Redemption\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22727748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22727748", "title": "Unemployment Insurance Act 1924", "text": "Unemployment Insurance Act 1924\n\nThe Unemployment Insurance Act 1924 was passed when the British Labour Party was in power in 1924. The Act arose from a dispute over the means testing of benefits. The Labour Cabinet disagreed on whether means testing should be abolished or whether such a move would prove too costly. The compromise was that the test for receiving benefits would be whether a person was \"genuinely seeking work\". The 1924 Act extended to \"genuinely seeking work\" test to all benefited claims.\n"}
{"id": "1529987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1529987", "title": "United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances", "text": "United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances\n\nThe United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988 is one of three major drug control treaties currently in force. It provides additional legal mechanisms for enforcing the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances. The Convention entered into force on November 11, 1990. As of February 2018, there are 190 Parties to the Convention. These include 185 out of 193 United Nations member states (not Equatorial Guinea, Kiribati, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Somalia, South Sudan, or Tuvalu) and the Holy See, the European Union, the Cook Islands, Niue, and the State of Palestine.\n\nThe 1988 Convention was introduced following the political and sociological developments in the 1970s and 1980s. The growing demand for cannabis, cocaine, and heroin for recreational purposes, mostly in the developed world, triggered an increase of illicit production in geographical areas where cannabis, coca, and opium had been traditionally cultivated. With the rising size of the illicit drug trade, international drug trafficking became a multibillion-dollar business dominated by criminal groups, providing grounds for the creation of the 1988 Convention and the consequential escalation of the war on drugs.\n\nThe notes that previous enforcement efforts have not stopped drug use, warning of \"steadily increasing inroads into various social groups made by illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.\" It cautions that the drug trade and related activities \"undermine the legitimate economies and threaten the stability, security and sovereignty of States.\" The sense of urgency is underscored by the image of innocent boys and girls being exploited:\n\nMuch of the treaty is devoted to fighting organized crime by mandating cooperation in tracing and seizing drug-related assets. of the Convention requires its parties to confiscate proceeds from drug offenses. It also requires parties to empower its courts or other competent authorities to order that bank, financial, or commercial records be made available or seized. The Convention further states that a party may not decline to act on this provision on the ground of bank secrecy.\n\nIn addition, of the Convention establishes two categories of controlled illicit drug precursor substances, Table I and Table II. The Commission on Narcotic Drugs has power to decide whether to control a precursor substance, and which Table to place it in. The assessment of the International Narcotics Control Board is binding on the Commission, however, as to scientific matters. A two-thirds vote is required to add a substance to a Table.\n\nArticle 12 protects the interests of pharmaceutical and chemical companies by requiring the Board to take into account the \"extent, importance and diversity of the licit use of the substance, and the possibility and ease of using alternate substances both for licit purposes and for the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances.\"\n\nControl of amphetamine-type stimulant precursors has become a major UN priority.\n\n of the Convention may require nations to ban possession of drugs for personal use:\n\nPrevious drug control treaties had targeted drug manufacturers and traffickers, rather than users. In their 2003 article, \"The Mechanics and Dynamics of the UN System for International Drug Control,\" David Bewley-Taylor and Cindy Fazey explain that \"[t]he 1988 Convention was an attempt to reach a political balance between consumer and producer countries. Consequently, it was not only the duty of producing countries (e.g. the developing countries of Asia and South America) to suppress illicit supply, but also the duty of consumer countries (e.g. the industrialized countries of Europe and North America) to suppress the demand for drugs.\"\n\nHowever, it is unclear whether this provision actually does mandate prohibition of drug possession for personal use, due to the caveat that such possession need only be prohibited if it is \"contrary to the provisions of the 1961 Convention, the 1961 Convention as amended or the 1971 Convention.\" The American National Commission on Marijuana and Drug Abuse found that the provisions of the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs against possession apply only to possession related to illicit trafficking, while the Canadian Le Dain Commission of Inquiry into the Non-Medical Use of Drugs found otherwise.\n\nSeveral of the Convention's provisions are prefaced with the words, \"Subject to its constitutional principles and the basic concepts of its legal system, each Party shall ...\" According to Fazey, \"This has been used by the USA not to implement part of article 3 of the 1988 Convention, which prevents inciting others to use narcotic or psychotropic drugs, on the basis that this would be in contravention of their constitutional amendment guaranteeing freedom of speech.\" Similarly, if a national prohibition on drug possession violated a nation's constitution, those provisions would not be binding on that country.\n\nIn 2003, a European Parliament committee recommended repealing the 1988 Convention, finding that:\n\nThe road to repeal would be difficult. Individual nations could withdraw from the treaty under the provisions of . However, as former UN drug official Cindy Fazey notes, the Convention has no termination clause, and therefore would remain in effect even if only one signatory remained. The Transnational Radical Party report noted that denunciation is the only route to changing the control regime established by the treaty:\n\nSource: INCB Red List (14th Edition, January 2015)\n\nThe list of 23 substances is identical to list of EU-controlled drug precursors, except for the different categorization and inclusion of stereoisomers in EU Category 1.\n\nSee also the article: drug precursors\n\n\nThe salts of the substances listed in this Table whenever the existence of such salts is possible.\n\n\nThe salts of the substances listed in this Table whenever the existence of such salts is possible.\n\nThe salts of hydrochloric acid and sulphuric acid are specifically excluded from Table II.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1036945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036945", "title": "Vergangenheitsbewältigung", "text": "Vergangenheitsbewältigung\n\nVergangenheitsbewältigung (, \"struggle to overcome the [negatives of the] past\" or “working through the past”) is a German term describing processes that since the later 20th century have become key in the study of post-1945 German literature, society, and culture.\n\nThe German Duden lexicon defines \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" as \"public debate within a country on a problematic period of its recent history—in Germany on National Socialism, in particular\"—where \"problematic\" refers to traumatic events that raise sensitive questions of collective culpability. In Germany, and originally, the term refers to embarrassment about and often remorse for Germans' complicity in the war crimes of the Wehrmacht, Holocaust, and related events of the early and mid-20th century, including World War II. In this sense, the word can refer to the psychic process of denazification. With the absorption into the current Federal Republic of Germany of East Germany since 1989 and the fall of the Soviet Union, \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" can also refer to coming to terms with the excesses and human rights abuses associated with that former Communist state.\n\n\"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" describes the attempt to analyze, digest and learn to live with the past, in particular the Holocaust. The focus on learning is much in the spirit of philosopher George Santayana's oft-quoted observation that \"those who forget the past are condemned to repeat it\". It is a technical term also used in English that was coined after 1945 in West Germany, relating specifically to the atrocities committed during the Third Reich, when Adolf Hitler was in power in Germany, and to both historical and contemporary concerns about the extensive compromise and co-optation of many German cultural, religious, and political institutions by Nazism. The term therefore deals at once with the concrete responsibility of the German state (West Germany assumed the legal obligations of the Reich) and of individual Germans for what took place \"under Hitler\", and with questions about the roots of legitimacy in a society whose development of the Enlightenment collapsed in the face of Nazi ideology.\n\nMore recently, the term \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" has also been used in the former East Germany to refer to the process of working through the brutalities of Communist institutions.\n\nHistorically, \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" often is seen as the logical \"next step\" after a denazification driven at first under Allied Occupation and then by the Christian Democratic Union government of Konrad Adenauer. It dates from the late 1950s and early 1960s, roughly the period in which the work of the \"Wiederaufbau\" (reconstruction) became less absorbing and urgent. Having replaced the institutions and power structures of Nazism, the aim of liberal Germans was to deal with the guilt of recent history. \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" is characterised in part by learning from the past. This includes honestly admitting that such a past did indeed exist, attempting to remedy as far as possible the wrongs committed, and attempting to move on from that past.\n\nThe German churches, of which only a minority played a significant role in the resistance to Nazism, have led the way in this process. They have developed a specifically German post-war theology of repentance. At the regular mass church rallies, the Lutheran Kirchentag and the Catholic \"Katholikentag\", for example, have developed this theme as a leitmotiv of Christian youth.\n\n\"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" has been expressed by the society through its schools, where in most German states the centrally-written curriculum provides each child with repeated lessons on different aspects of Nazism in German history, politics and religion classes from the fifth grade onwards, and related to their maturity. Associated school trips may have destinations of concentration camps. Jewish Holocaust survivors are often invited to schools as guest speakers, though the passage of time limits these opportunities as their generation has aged.\n\nIn philosophy, Theodor Adorno's writings include the lecture \"Was bedeutet: Aufarbeitung der Vergangenheit?\" (\"What is meant by 'working through the past'?\"), a subject related to his thinking of \"after Auschwitz\" in his later work. He delivered the lecture on November 9, 1959, at a conference on education held in Wiesbaden. Writing in the context of a new wave of anti-Semitic attacks against synagogues and Jewish community institutions occurring in West Germany at that time, Adorno rejected the contemporary catch phrase \"working through the past\" as misleading. He argued that it masked a denial, rather than signifying the kind of critical self-reflection that Freudian theory called for in order to \"come to terms\" with the past.\n\nAdorno's lecture is often seen as consisting in part of a variably implicit and explicit critique of the work of Martin Heidegger, whose formal ties to the Nazi Party are well known. Heidegger, distinct from his role in the Party during the Third Reich, attempted to provide a historical conception of Germania as a philosophical notion of German origin and destiny (later he would speak of \"the West\"). Alexander Garcia Düttman's \"Das Gedächtnis des Denkens. Versuch über Heidegger und Adorno\" (\"The Memory of Thought: An Essay on Heidegger and Adorno\", translated by Nicholas Walker) attempts to treat the philosophical value of these seemingly opposed and certainly incompatible terms \"Auschwitz\" and \"Germania\" in the philosophy of both men.\n\nIn the cultural sphere, the term \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" is associated with a movement in German literature, characterised by such authors as Günter Grass and Siegfried Lenz. Lenz's novel \"Deutschstunde\" and Grass's \"Danziger Trilogie\" both deal with childhoods under Nazism.\n\nThe erection of public monuments to Holocaust victims has been a tangible commemoration of Germany's \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\". Concentration camps, such as Dachau, Buchenwald, Bergen-Belsen and Flossenbürg, are open to visitors as memorials and museums. Most towns have plaques on walls marking the spots where particular atrocities took place.\n\nWhen the seat of government was moved from Bonn to Berlin in 1999, an extensive \"Holocaust memorial\", designed by architect Peter Eisenman, was planned as part of the extensive development of new official buildings in the district of Berlin-Mitte; it was opened on 10 May 2005. The informal name of this memorial, the \"Holocaust-Mahnmal,\" is significant. It does not translate easily: \"Holocaust Cenotaph\" would be one sense, but the noun \"Mahnmal,\" which is distinct from the term \"Denkmal\" (typically used to translate \"memorial\") carries the sense of \"admonition\", \"urging\", \"appeal\", or \"warning\", rather than \"remembrance\" as such. The work is formally known as \"Das Denkmal für die ermordeten Juden Europas\" (English translation, \"The Memorial for the Murdered Jews of Europe\"). Some controversy attaches to it precisely because of this formal name and its exclusive emphasis on Jewish victims. As Eisenman acknowledged at the opening ceremony, \"It is clear that we won't have solved all the problems — architecture is not a panacea for evil — nor will we have satisfied all those present today, but this cannot have been our intention.\"\n\nIn Austria, ongoing arguments about the nature and significance of the Anschluss, and unresolved disputes about legal expressions of obligation and liability, have led to very different concerns, and to a far less institutionalized response by the government. Since the late 20th century, observers and analysts have expressed concerns about the ascent of \"Haiderism\".\n\nPoland has maintained a museum, archive, and research centre at Oświęcim, better known by its German name of Auschwitz, since a July 2, 1947 act of the Polish Parliament. In the same year, Czechoslovakia established what was known as the \"National Suffering Memorial\" and later as the Terezín memorial in Terezín, Czech Republic. This site during the Holocaust was known as the concentration camp of Theresienstadt. In the context of varying degrees of Communist orthodoxy in both countries during the period of Soviet domination of Eastern Europe through much of the late 20th century, historical research into the Holocaust was politicised to varying degrees. Marxist doctrines of class struggle were often overlaid onto generally received histories, which tended to exclude both acts of collaboration and indications of abiding antisemitism in these nations.\n\nThe advance of the \"Einsatzgruppen\", \"Aktion Reinhardt\", and other significant events in the Holocaust did not happen in the Third Reich proper (or what is now the territory of the Federal Republic). The history of the memorials and archives which have been erected at these sites in eastern Europe is associated with the Communist regimes that ruled these areas for more than four decades after World War II. The Nazis promoted an idea of an expansive German nation extending into territories where ethnic Germans had previously settled. They invaded and controlled much of Central and Eastern Europe, unleashing violence against various Slavic groups, as well as Jews, Communists, homosexuals, gypsies, prisoners of war, and so-called partisans. There were millions of victims in addition to Jews. After the war, the eastern European nations expelled German settlers as well as long settled ethnic Germans (the \"Volksdeutsche\") as a reaction to the Reich's attempt to claim the eastern lands on behalf of ethnic Germans.\n\nCzechoslovakia and Poland described their process as \"lustration\".\n\nIn some of its aspects, \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" can be compared to the attempts of other democratic countries to raise consciousness and come to terms with earlier periods of governmental and social abuses, such as the South African process of \"truth and reconciliation\" following the period of apartheid and suppression of African groups seeking political participation and freedom from white oppression.\n\nSome comparisons have been made with the Soviet process of \"glasnost,\" though this was less focused on the past than achieving a level of open criticism necessary for progressive reform to take place. (It generally assumed that the Communist Party monopoly on power would be maintained.) Since the late 20th century and the fall of the Soviet Union, the continuing efforts in nations of eastern Europe and the independent states of the former Soviet Union to reinterpret the communist past and its abuses is sometimes referred to as a post-socialist \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung.\"\n\nThe World War II history of Japan's involvement in Japanese war crimes is something the future Emperor, Crown Prince Naruhito, has had his own concerns about with how accurately such events are remembered in the 21st century, on the occasion of his own 55th birthday, and not known to be related to the more recently-revealed future event of his expected ascendancy to the Chrysanthemum Throne, itself likely to occur on April 30, 2019.\n\nPolitical satirist Roy Zimmerman has a song called \"Vergangenheitsbewaeltigung\" on his album \"Security\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37412412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37412412", "title": "WPIX, Inc. v. ivi, Inc.", "text": "WPIX, Inc. v. ivi, Inc.\n\nWPIX, Inc. v. ivi, Inc., was a copyright infringement case heard before the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The appeals court affirmed the decision of the district court to grant an injunction for the plaintiffs, barring ivi, Inc. from broadcasting television programming over the Internet. This decision set a precedent that broadcast television material can be protected by copyright and cannot be re-transmitted on the Internet without permission.\n\nivi, Inc. is a Seattle-based company that began retransmitting broadcast television content via the Internet to paid subscribers on September 13, 2010. Designed to be an improvement over more expensive traditional cable services, viewers could watch local broadcast TV from New York City and Seattle, and later Chicago and Los Angeles, from anywhere in the world for a monthly subscription of $4.99 without any special equipment. A recording service could be added for $0.99 per month.\nShortly after beginning operations, ivi and CEO Todd Weaver received cease-and-desist notices from a group of affected copyright holders and television stations, who calculated that ivi's services severely decreased the value of their programming and decrease advertisement revenue.\n\nOn September 20, 2010, ivi filed a declaratory judgment action in the District Court for the Western District of Washington, seeking a declaration of non-infringement on the grounds that §111 of the Copyright Act of 1976 authorizes retransmission of broadcast television content for cable companies. The same day, ivi issued a press release calling their legal action \"a preemptive move to discourage needless litigation from big media,\" and expressing their desire to \"work with content owners [to help] them to realize new revenue streams and reach more viewers from around the globe.\"\n\nOn September 28, a group of copyright holders and broadcasters, including Disney, NBC, ABC, CBS, Fox, The CW, Telemundo, and others, filed a copyright infringement action against ivi in the District Court for the Southern District of New York. ivi's earlier declaratory action was subsequently dismissed by the Washington district court on the grounds that it was improperly anticipatory.\n\nOn January 31, 2011, Public Knowledge, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the Media Access Project, and the Open Technology Institute filed an \"amici\" brief with the court in support of ivi. Noting that \"\"amicus briefs\" are unusual at the district court level,\" the brief argued that ivi should be considered a cable system under §111, and that granting a preliminary injunction against ivi would not serve the public interest.\n\nOn February 20, 2011, the New York district court granted the plaintiff's motion for a preliminary injunction against ivi, finding that ivi was not a \"cable system\" and hence not entitled to a compulsory license under §111 of the Copyright Act. ivi appealed the district's court decision.\n\nivi admitted that they had broadcast the plaintiff's copyrighted content, but offered an affirmative defense by arguing that §111 of the Copyright Act grants cable systems a compulsory license to retransmit broadcast television content. Hence, the principal issue to be decided by the court was whether ivi qualified as a \"cable system\" according to the Copyright Act.\n\nIn deciding whether ivi qualified as a cable system under the Copyright Act, the court applied the two-step test from \"Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, Inc.\". \"Chevron\" dictates that courts should first consider the text of the relevant legislation and the intent of Congress. If the relevant legislation does not directly address the issue at hand, \"Chevron\" then instructs that courts should defer to the interpretation of the government agency that administers the statute, provided that the agency's interpretation is deemed to be \"reasonable.\"\n\n§111 of the Copyright Act defines a \"cable system\" as:\n\nThe court found that \"it is simply not clear\" whether the text of the Copyright Act would include ivi as a cable system.\n\nNext, the court considered whether it was the legislative intent of Congress to include Internet-based retransmission as a type of cable system. The court observed that Congress' original intent in enacting §111 was to encourage cable systems to provide better television reception for remote communities that were poorly served by over-the-air broadcast television. Drawing upon \"Turner Broadcasting v. Federal Communications Commission\", the court found that \"Congress intended to support localized—rather than nationwide—systems that use cable or optical fibers to transmit signals.\" Because Internet-based retransmission is not intended to deliver content to remote regions and is not a localized transmission service, the court found that \"Congress did not intend for §111's compulsory license to extent to Internet retransmissions.\"\n\nThe court noted that it intentionally interpreted §111 of the Copyright Act \"as narrowly as possible\" according to \"New York Times Co. v. Tasini\", in order to minimize government interference on the market; exceptions to the exclusive property rights of copyright holders should be granted sparingly.\n\nAlthough the court found that step one of the Chevron test was sufficient to conclude that ivi is not entitled to a compulsory license, the court also provided a step two analysis to see if the United States Copyright Office has interpreted the Copyright Act in a way that would treat ivi as a cable system. The court found that this was not the case; the Copyright Office has repeatedly stated their view that Internet-based transmission not eligible for a compulsory license because it is \"so vastly different from other retransmission industries now eligible for compulsory licensing.\" The court found the Copyright Office's position to be a reasonable interpretation of the statute.\n\nThe appeals court also ruled that if the injunction against ivi were not upheld, then the plaintiff broadcast companies would lose significant amounts of revenue. For instance, ivi's live broadcasting feature would allow viewers to watch programs earlier than would otherwise be available in their timezone. This is different from other services such as Hulu, which delays Internet re-transmission of broadcast television. Additionally, advertisers pay large sums to place commercials for specific demographics for broadcast television; ivi's services make this targeting far less effective.\n\nThe appeals court reasoned that protection of copyright of broadcast television is in the public interest, by giving incentive to parties willing to create new works. The court opinion also states that ivi's services provide convenience and do not necessarily improve access to broadcast television.\n\nTherefore, on August 27, 2012, the appeals court affirmed the district court's opinion, ruling that ivi's retransmitting of broadcast television without obtaining licenses constituted copyright infringement.\n\nivi was forced to suspend their operations when the district court granted a preliminary injunction, and has not resumed operations since then. After the appeals court decision supporting the injunction, an ivi spokesperson commented that \"This is not the final chapter to this story\", leading some to speculate that the company continued to work on litigation after the appeals ruling. The decision has been called a \"major victory for broadcasters.\"\n\nIn light of this ruling, some have become frustrated that courts' and the FCC's interpretation of what constitutes a cable company has not kept up with modern technology, and that a clear Internet TV policy has not been established. However, as shown in the court case \"ABC v. Aereo\", which provides VCR-like services rather than re-transmitting services as ivi attempted, it is possible to legally make TV available on the Internet for a profit.\n\n"}
