{"id": "32896595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32896595", "title": "Agricultural Children Act", "text": "Agricultural Children Act\n\nThe Agricultural Children Act was an Act of Parliament passed by the United Kingdom Parliament in 1873, which prohibited the agricultural employment of children under the age of eight and also provided for the education of children involved in farm labour. As part of this, the Act stated that children could not be employed in agricultural work without parental confirmation that they had attended school a certain number of times in the preceding twelve months, specifically 250 times for children aged eight to ten and 150 times for individuals over the age of ten. Ultimately, the Act was ineffective, and its provisions were replaced by those of the Elementary Education Act 1876 and the Elementary Education Act 1880.\n\nAgricultural Gangs Act 1867\n\n"}
{"id": "4433968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4433968", "title": "Al-Zahiriyah Library", "text": "Al-Zahiriyah Library\n\nThe Az-Zahiriyah library () in Damascus, Syria dates back to 1277, taking its name from its founder Sultan Baibars (1223–1277). Building this library was his father’s idea but he died before he could achieve it. Initially Az-Zahiriah was a public school in charge of teaching Quranic sciences. The decorations, carvings, and writing on the building walls, in addition to the gate which bears geometric designs and patterns, make the library one of the most important buildings in Damascus. It is located at Bab el Barid in the Al-Amara neighborhood.\n\nThe mosaics of the Umayyad Mosque gave inspiration to the decoration of the main prayer hall where a band of lavish golden floral and architectural mosaics is running around.\n\nThe manuscript department includes over 13,000 classical Islamic manuscripts, the oldest being Imam Ahmad ibn Hanbal’s \"Kitab al-zuhd\" and \"Kitab al-fada'il\". Other notable manuscripits include \"Ta'rikh Dimashq\" by Ibn 'Asakir (1105–1175), \"al-Jam bayn al-gharibayn\" by Abu `Ubaydah Ahmad ibn Muhammad Al-Harawi (d. 1010), and \"Gharib al-hadith\" by Ibn Qutaybah al-Dinawari (d. 889).\n\nThe library was nationally recognized by the Syrian state in 1880. In 1919 the \"Arab Academy was charged with the supervision of the al-Zahiriyya Library. … Its collection consisted at that time of the surviving manuscripts from different small libraries in Syria. … The collection grew from 2,465 manuscripts to 22,000 volumes between 1919 and 1945.\" In 1949 a legal deposit law decreed that two copies of every work published in Syria be deposited in the library. The law was not enforced until July 1983, when a presidential decree required the deposit of 5 copies of each work published by a Syrian author. In 1984 the Al-Assad Library became the Syrian national library, replacing al-Zahiriyah Library.\n\nSultan Al-Zahir Baibars, also known as Rukn Uddin Baybrus (full name, al-Malik al-Zahir Rukn al-Din Baibars al-Bunduqdari) was buried in Damascus in 1277 under the dome of the Az-Zahiriyah library, established by him.\n\nAs of 2011, the library's holdings included some 100,000 volumes, 13,000 manuscripts, and 50,000 periodicals.\n\n"}
{"id": "26898678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26898678", "title": "Amish Grace", "text": "Amish Grace\n\nAmish Grace is a television film that premiered on the Lifetime Movie Network on Palm Sunday, March 28, 2010. The movie is based on the 2006 West Nickel Mines School shooting at Nickel Mines, Pennsylvania, and the spirit of forgiveness the Amish community demonstrated in its aftermath.\n\nThe movie stars Kimberly Williams-Paisley, Tammy Blanchard, and Matt Letscher and is based on the book \"Amish Grace: How Forgiveness Transcended Tragedy\", Jossey-Bass, 2007, , by Donald Kraybill, Steven Nolt, and David L. Weaver-Zercher. \"Amish Grace\" was executive-produced by Larry A. Thompson, written by Sylvie White and Teena Booth, and directed by Gregg Champion.\n\nWhen a group of Amish schoolgirls are taken hostage and killed in their classroom, their parents and the Amish community of Nickel Mines, Pennsylvania, stun the outside world by immediately forgiving the killer. Ida Graber (Kimberly Williams-Paisley), mother of one of the murdered children, has a tougher time than the others accepting the tragedy, but in her anguish and pain, she begins a personal journey of renewed faith, ultimately accepting the heart-wrenching tragedy of losing a child after learning that her murdered daughter, Mary Beth Graber, had promised to pray for the perpetrator before her death; reconnecting with her husband (Matt Letscher), family, and community; offering forgiveness to the killer; and even showing kindness and compassion to the killer's widow (Tammy Blanchard) and children — all in the form of Amish grace.\n\nThe film implies that Charles Roberts' motive was that when his daughter died the day she was born, he decided to \"get revenge on God\" by taking \"his\" girls on account of how devout the Amish are.\n\nThe film was dedicated in memory of the victims of the West Nickel Mines School shooting.\n\n\n\"Amish Grace\" broke network records in multiple demographics, with more than 4 million viewers, becoming the highest-rated and most-watched original movie in Lifetime Movie Network’s history in Households (3.8/2,916,449 viewers), Total Viewers (2.0/4,020,496), Women 18+ (3.5/2,729,834), Women 25-54 (2.7/1,156,363), Adults 18+ (2.4/3,649,266) and Adults 25-54 (1.9/1,585,667).\n\nThe movie mostly received positive reviews; however, it received criticism because the authors of \"Amish Grace: How Forgiveness Transcended Tragedy\", Jossey-Bass, 2007, , distanced themselves from the production out of respect to the Amish community. Others criticized the movie for blending facts with fiction.\n\n"}
{"id": "17681439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17681439", "title": "Analytical phonics", "text": "Analytical phonics\n\nAnalytical phonics refers to an approach to the teaching of reading in which the phonemes associated with particular graphemes are not pronounced in isolation. Children identify (analyze) the common phoneme in a set of words in which each word contains the phoneme under study. For example, teacher and pupils discuss how the following words are alike: pat, park, push and pen. Analytic phonics for writing similarly relies on inferential learning: realising that the initial phoneme in /p i g/ is the same as that in /p æ t, p a: k, p u ƒ/ and /p e n/, children deduce that they must write that phoneme with grapheme.\nToday, Analytical phonics is referred to as Implicit phonics.\nThis is because it signifies the analysis (breaking down) of the whole word to its parts (an analysis only necessary when a child cannot read it as a whole word).\n\nImplicit phonics is moving from the whole to the smallest parts; \"blending-and-building\" is not usually taught. A student will identify new words by its shape, beginning and ending letters, any context clues from the rest of the sentence or any accompanying pictures.\n\nA major problem with analytical phonic methods is the erroneous assumption that all students will already have the fairly sophisticated phonemic awareness skills needed to enable the comparison of sounds within the various words.\nImplicit instruction relies on readers \"discovering\" clues about sound-spelling relationships; good readers can do this, but poor readers are not likely to do so.\n\nPhonics has become an acceptable practice and approach to teaching children to read. However, there are different methods in which it is used, and disagreement over which approach is best.\n\nThere are two primary approaches to teaching phonics: analytical phonics and synthetic phonics. Both approaches require the learner to have some phonological awareness (the ability to hear and discriminate sounds in spoken words). Both approaches can also contribute to furthering children's phonological development. Phonological awareness is an essential skill for reading, writing, listening and talking.\n\nSynthetic phonics involves the development of phonemic awareness from the outset. As part of the decoding process, the reader learns up to 44 phonemes (the smallest units of sound) and their related graphemes (the written symbols for the phoneme).\n\nIn contrast, analytical phonics, also known as the \"whole word\" approach, involves analysis of whole words to detect phonetic or orthographic (spelling) patterns, then splitting them into smaller parts to help with decoding.\n\nSupporters of Synthetic phonics argue that if the systematic teaching of phonics doesn't take place, analytic learners can fall behind and fail to develop the tools they need for decoding words.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31763210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31763210", "title": "BBC Domesday Reloaded", "text": "BBC Domesday Reloaded\n\nBBC Domesday Reloaded was a local history web site for the digitised content of the BBC's 1986 Domesday Project. It was launched in May 2011 and included some updates contributed by users during 2011. During the site's first day of public operation, over two million pages were viewed.\n\nThe BBC said that it worked with The National Archives to transfer the material. The data was extracted to a PC compatible computer by communication with a BBC Master computer which could read the disks from the original system. The transfer was facilitated by Simon Guerrero and Andy Finney, who were involved in the original project (Andy as an engineer and Simon as a teenage contributor).\n\nIn December 2011, the BBC announced installations of large horizontally installed (table-style) touchscreen interfaces to the data, known as \"TouchTable\". They are housed at its MediaCityUK site in Salford and The National Museum of Computing in Bletchley. The TouchTables used have a diagonal display size of 52 inches, which exceeded the largest LCD-based screen available at the time. The TouchTables were reported to have been developed by eMoot and allow up to four users to browse through the information at the same time, using 12 touch points simultaneously.\n\nThe website was transferred to The National Archives in June 2018.\n\nThe website provided online access to images and articles from the original Domesday Project. Visitors were able to update information from their local area until the end of October 2011. Some local libraries hosted events for residents to contribute updates to the site.\n\n"}
{"id": "1660511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1660511", "title": "Bantu Education Act, 1953", "text": "Bantu Education Act, 1953\n\nThe Bantu Education Act, 1953 (Act No. 47 of 1953; later renamed the Black Education Act, 1953) was a South African segregation law which legalised several aspects of the apartheid system passed by the Apartheid regime which was really not on the side of the black community. Its major provision was enforcing racially separated educational facilities. Even universities were made \"tribal\", and all but three missionary schools chose to close down when the government no longer would help support their schools. Very few authorities continued using their own finances to support education for native Africans. In 1959, this type of education was extended to \"non white\" universities and colleges with the Extension of University Education Act, and the internationally prestigious University College of Fort Hare was taken over by the government and degraded to being part of the Bantu education system. It is often argued that the policy of Bantu (African) education was aimed to direct black or non-white youth to the unskilled labour market, although Kiyaam Govind, at the time Minister of Native Affairs, claimed that the aim was to solve South Africa's \"ethnic problems\" by creating complementary economic and political units for different ethnic group.\n\nThe national authorities of the time is often said to have viewed education as having a rather pivotal position in their goal of eventually separating South Africa from the Bantustans entirely. The Minister of Native Affairs at the time, the \"Architect of Apartheid\" Hendrik Verwoerd, stated that:\n\"There is no place for [the Bantu] in the European community above the level of certain forms of labour ... What is the use of teaching the Bantu child mathematics when it cannot use it in practice?\"\n\nThe introduction of Bantu Education led to a substantial increase of government funding to the learning institutions of black Africans, but it did not keep up with population increase. The law forced institutions under the direct control of the state and solve white man problems. The National Party now had the power to employ and train teachers as they saw fit. Black teachers' salaries in 1953 were extremely low and resulted in a dramatic drop of trainee teachers. Only one third of the black teachers were qualified.\n\nThe schools reserved for the country's white children were of Western standards. 30% of the black schools did not have electricity, 25% no running water and less than half had plumbing. The education for Blacks, Indians and Coloureds was substantially cheaper but not free. In the 70s, the per capita governmental spending on black education was one-tenth of the spending on white.\n\nIn 1976, the \"Afrikaans Medium Decree\" of 1974, which forced all black schools to use both Afrikaans and English as languages of instruction beginning with the last year of primary school, led to the Soweto Uprising in which more than 575 people died, at least 134 of them under the age of eighteen.\n\nThe act was repealed in 1979 by the Education and Training Act, 1979, which continued the system of racially segregated education, while also eliminating both discrimination in tuition fees and the segregated Department of Bantu Education and allowing the both use of native tongue education up to the fourth grade and limited attendance at private schools as well. Segregation became unconstitutional after the introduction of the Interim Constitution in 1994, and most sections of the Education and Training Act were repealed by the South African Schools Act, 1996.\n\nhttp://nmmu.ac.za/documents/mward/Bantu%20Education%20Act%201953.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "24618179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24618179", "title": "Braeside High School", "text": "Braeside High School\n\nBraeside High School is a high school in Lavington, Nairobi, Kenya, operated by Braeburn Schools Kenya Limited. It is a co-educational international day school which charges fees, is open to students of all backgrounds, and uses the British National Curriculum.\n\n"}
{"id": "17349229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17349229", "title": "Catholic Earthcare Australia", "text": "Catholic Earthcare Australia\n\nCatholic Earthcare Australia is an agency of the Australian Catholic Bishops Conference and is the environmental arm of the Catholic Church in Australia. This executive agency of the Bishops' Commission for Justice and Development (BCJD) is mandated with the mission of advising, supporting and assisting the BCJD in responding to Pope John Paul II's call to \"stimulate and sustain the ecological conversion\" throughout the Catholic church in Australia and beyond.\n\nIn May 2017, the Australian Catholic Bishops Conference decided to incorporate Catholic Earthcare Australia into its sister agency, Caritas Australia. This change was made to strengthen the capacity of Catholic Earthcare Australia, particularly in advocating and educating about the principles of Holy Father’s 2015 encyclical, Laudato Si, and to achieve synergies with Caritas Australia’s extensive education and advocacy work around Australia, including parishes, schools and the wider Catholic community on environmental issues such as climate change.\n\nCatholic Earthcare Australia will act as an advisory agency to the BCJD on ecological matters, including the safeguarding of the integrity of creation, environmental justice and ecological sustainability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45079597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45079597", "title": "Certified Penetration Testing Engineer", "text": "Certified Penetration Testing Engineer\n\nCertified Penetration Testing Engineer (C)PTE) is an internationally recognized cyber security certification administered by the United States-based information security company Mile2. The accreditation maps to the Committee on National Security Systems' 4013 education certification. The C)PTE certification is considered one of five core cyber security certifications.\n\nObtaining the C)PTE certification requires proven proficiency and knowledge of five key information security elements, penetration testing, data collection, scanning, enumeration, exploitation and reporting.\n\nThe C)PTE certification is one of several information assurance accreditations recognized by the U.S. National Security Agency. The certification has also been approved by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's National Initiative for Cyber Security Studies and Careers (NICSS) and the U.S.-based National Security Systems Committee.\n\nThe online exam for C)PTE accreditation lasts two hours and consists of 100 multiple choice questions.\n\n"}
{"id": "40148433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40148433", "title": "Charter schools in New Zealand", "text": "Charter schools in New Zealand\n\nCharter schools in New Zealand, labelled as Partnership Schools or Kura Hourua, receive government funding similar to state schools but are subject to fewer rules and regulations from the Ministry of Education. They are free and open for any students to attend. Charter schools have the autonomy to set their own curriculum, qualifications, pay rates for teachers, school-hours and school terms. The schools may be operated by sponsors such as Māori Iwi, not-for-profit organisations, businesses or existing education providers.\n\nCharter schools were legalized after an agreement between the National Party and the ACT Party following the 2011 general election. In October 2012, the controversial Education Amendment Bill creating charter schools passed with a five-vote majority. The Charter School model was heavily criticized by a wide range of educational authorities, teacher organizations, the general public and political parties who vowed to overturn it. \n\nIn late October 2017, the newly-formed Labour-led coalition government announced that it would be abolishing charter schools. This announcement triggered mixed responses with teaching unions supporting the Government while charter schools and the opposition National and ACT parties opposing the announcement. In response to protests, Prime Minister Ardern and the Māori Labour MPs Education Minister Kelvin Davis and Willie Jackson have suggested that charter schools could convert to \"special character\" schools.\n\nPartnership Schools in New Zealand come under the oversight of an independent Authorisation Board, appointed by the Minister of Education. The Board advises the Minister on which applications should be considered for contracts. The Board is also responsible for monitoring the educational performance and achievement progress of the Partnership Schools. On 22 February 2018 the Authorisation Board's chair Catherine Isaac announced that the entire Authorisation Board would be resigning in protest of the Labour-led coalition government's decision to abolish the Partnership School model.\n\nAs of March 2018, there are ten partnership schools in New Zealand.\n\n\nIn 1989, the Fourth Labour Government reformed the state (public) school system in what was known as the \"Tomorrow's Schools\" reforms. Blaming the amount of centralised bureaucracy for slipping school standards, the government disestablished the Department of Education, replacing it with the smaller Ministry of Education and moving the governance of state schools to their individual school communities. Since the Education Act 1877, the New Zealand public primary schooling system has been free and secular with provision for private religious schools. In 1935, secondary school education was made free by the First Labour Government. State schools are crown entities, meaning they are government-owned and retain the strong governmental and parliamentary oversight and control in common with other New Zealand crown entities. State schools are the most common in New Zealand.\n\nApart from the numerous State schools there are several variations on the Tomorrow's Schools model, the largest of which is state-integrated schools. State-integrated schools are parochial schools or private schools that have been \"integrated\" into the state school system under the Private Schools Conditional Integration Act 1975, usually because they have run into financial difficulty. These schools are run the same as state schools, but they are allowed to retain their special character. Proprietors of the school (e.g. the Catholic Church in the case of a Catholic school) own the integrated school facilities and sit on the school's board of trustees, but they do not receive government funds to maintain separation of church and state, and subsequently require parents to pay \"attendance dues\" for upkeep of the facilities. Kura Kaupapa schools are state run schools with heavy emphasis on learning Maori language and culture but having most of the features of normal state schools. In addition there are fee paying private schools which receive limited funding from the state. Most follow the national curriculum or internationally recognized variations.\n\nFollowing the 2011 general election, the National Party, in return for confidence and supply, announced it would pick up an ACT party policy of setting up charter schools in southern Auckland and eastern Christchurch within three years. This followed the appointment of Lesley Longstone as the new Secretary of Education, who had experience in England with charter schools, although Longstone resigned in November 2012 after falling out with Education Minister Hekia Parata over the error-ridden Novopay payroll system. The National-ACT alliance intended to set up charter schools as alternatives to state schools. Schools would be operated by private businesses or organisations and would be directly accountable for performance to the organizations running them. The schools would receive state funding and private donations, but have the same freedoms as private schools in matters such as in setting the curriculum, length of the school year and teachers' pay. Teaching staff would also not have to be registered or even formally trained (although they would still require police clearance). Charter schools would still be subject to triennial external reviews by ERO, and the government would still have the power to intervene if there are serious problems, either taking over from the sponsor for a period of time or sacking them altogether. Unlike state schools, charter schools would not be subject to either Ombudsman scrutiny or the Official Information Act 1982. However, in April 2013, it was also announced that charter schools would be subject to Ombudsman scrutiny on matters relating to suspensions and expulsions (other than the Ombudsman, the only other way to appeal a suspension or expulsion is through the court system).\n\nThe plan was heavily criticised by the opposition Labour and Green parties, and the main teachers' professional associations—the NZEI and the PPTA. Most of the opposition was over the idea of unregistered and untrained teachers having direct contact with students, and the lack of accountability through the Ombudsman and the Official Information Act. In April 2012, Massey University released a report highly critical of the proposed charter school model, claiming there was no international evidence to support claims that charter schools do better and all they would do is increase segregation. In September 2012, Minister of Education Hekia Parata announced that many schools in Christchurch would be closed or amalgamated, largely due to population changes and damaged facilities following the February 2011 earthquake. However, parents, teachers and students protested at the changes for going too far, and feared that the closures were being used as an excuse to start charter schools. In June 2013, the closed school sites were put up for sale, with charter schools and property development among the proposed uses.\n\nThe Education Amendment Bill to allow charter schools, rebranded Partnership Schools/\"Kura Hourua\", was introduced on 15 October 2012 and passed its first reading three days later 63 votes to 56. The bill was referred to the Education and Science select committee for closer scrutiny and public submissions, with the committee reporting back in April 2013 that the bill should proceed with amendments. After the report was released, United Future MP Peter Dunne announced he was pulling support for charter schools, leaving only the National, Act and Maori Parties supporting the bill. The bill passed its third reading on 4 June 2013, 62 votes to 57. During the select committee stage, the Labour Party announced that if elected to government at the 2014 general election, it would introduce provisions to require charter schools to employ registered teachers and make the schools fully accountable to the Ombudsmen and the Official Information Act. It would also not allow any new charter schools and would not guarantee future funding or integration to any existing schools, leaving them either to continue as private schools or close altogether.\n\nIn May 2013, the PPTA published in its staff newsletter a list of 21 parties it believed were interested in the charter school programme, which included a high proportion of religious groups. While the Ministry of Education refused to release the full list of 36 interested parties, in July 2013, the Ombudsman overruled the MoE and forced them to release the list as soon as possible. In September 2013, the Education Minister Hekia Parata and Association Education Minister John Banks announced that the first five charter schools would open in Auckland and Northland by the first term of 2014. These schools included the Vanguard Military School, the Māori secondary schools Te Kura Hourua o Whangarei Terenga Paraoa and Te Kura Hourua ki Whangaruru, The Rise UP Academy, and the Christian-oriented South Auckland Middle School. \n\nIn September 2014, the Northland-based Te Kura Hourua ki Whangaruru in Whangaruru attracted controversy over its poor leadership, high absenteeism of 20%, and mismanagement of government funds. The school, which received 500% more funding than a state school, spent half its income buying a farm. The Ministry of Education carried out a secret inquiry and immediately installed its own manager. One of the two original managers left hurriedly. Problems first arose in 2013 when it was claimed that the school had been set up in a paddock using portaloos for toilets. It was reported that drugs were a problem in the school and that some students had been removed to an unknown place. The school has only one teacher with a current practicing certificate. The original management was replaced by an executive manager from Child, Youth and Family. The school received $27,000 per student compared to $6,000 per student in a state school. In October 2015, the Education Ministry acknowledged that charter schools had been over-funded an extra $888,000 more than they would have been allocated had their funding been strictly based on their enrolments.\n\nIn May 2016, an independent Partnership School support entity called E Tipu E Rea was established to provide support for existing and prospective charter school sponsors through a $500,000 conditional grant from the Government. Education Under-secretary and ACT leader David Seymour claimed that this would bring NZ charter schools in line with overseas models such as England's New Schools Network and New York's New York Charter School Centre. The Board was chaired by former EY Australasia CEO Rob McLeod. Other board members included former Maori Party Co-Leader Dame Tariana Turia, Dame Jenny Gibbs, former All Black rugby player La’auli Savae Michael Jones, Bruce Ritchie, and Kep Rapson. In August 2016, Seymour announced that two new Māori-oriented charter schools would be opening in Hamilton and Napier by 2017, adding to the eight that were already operating. \n\nIn May 2017, the consultancy firm Martin Jenkins published an independent report on behalf of the Ministry of Education praising most of the country's eight charter schools for helping Māori, Pacific Islander, and disadvantaged children. During the 2017 general election, the opposition Labour, Green, and New Zealand First parties announced that they would introduce legislation abolishing charter schools if elected into government. On 7 September, the National Government announced the creation of four new charter schools including a Christchurch outpost of the Auckland-based Vanguard Military School, a Māori-oriented junior high school, a bilingual Māori high school, and a STEM-oriented Auckland school.\n\nFollowing the formation of a Labour-led coalition government in October 2017, the new Education Minister Chris Hipkins announced that the Government would be abolishing charter schools. In early 2018, the Labour-led Government introduced legislation blocking the creation of future charter schools while still allowing the existing 11 charter schools to continue operating while they negotiated options with the Ministry of Education. The Government's announcement was welcomed by the Post Primary Teachers' Association. By contrast, the announcement was criticized by charter schools, several parents, and the opposition National and ACT parties. The National Party's education spokesperson Nikki Kaye asked the Auditor-General to investigate potential conflicts of interest in the process of closing charter schools.\n\nOn 11 February 2018, ACT leader and charter school advocate David Seymour led a 150-strong protest in Central Auckland criticizing the Government's decision. In response to criticism from parents and charter school advocates, Prime Minister Ardern and the Māori Labour MPs Education Minister Kelvin Davis and former broadcaster Willie Jackson have suggested that charter schools could convert to \"special character\" schools in order to avoid closure. On 21 February the entire Partnership Schools Authorisation Board announced that it would be resigning in protest of the Government's approach to abolishing charter schools. On 5 March, charter school representatives including Villa Education Trust's academic advisor Alwyn Poole sought clarification from the Government on the deadline for charter schools to convert to \"special character\" schools. Education Ministry spokesperson Katrina Casey issued a statement confirming that 1 April 2018 would be the deadline for new schools but not existing schools.\n\nOn 2 April 2018, the \"New Zealand Herald\" newspaper reported that the Government had paid NZ$3.4 million to five proposed charter schools on the day that the Labour-led coalition government was sworn in on 26 October 2017. Education Minister Chris Hipkins acknowledged that his Government had paid the schools establishment grants since the Government was bound by contracts signed before the 2017 general election. None of these proposed schools have paid back the establishment grants since they are in the process of negotiating with the Government about reopening as state schools or integrated schools. It was also reported that terminating the contracts for the existing 11 charter schools and proposed five charter schools would generate compensation costs of up to NZ$1 million per school; amounting to an estimated total of NZ$16 million. These proposed schools have included the science-oriented City Senior School in Auckland, Vanguard Military School's Christchurch branch, the Gisborne Māori high school Te Rūnanga o Tūranganui ā Kiwa, and Waatea High School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38826969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38826969", "title": "College student alcoholism", "text": "College student alcoholism\n\nThe rates of college students binge drinking in the United States have fluctuated for the past years. As high as 40% of college students could now be considered alcoholics, as defined by the next edition psychiatry's diagnostic manual, but many of these individuals would be regarded as having only a mild drinking problem. Most college binge drinkers and drug users don't develop lifelong problems.\n\nNational Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) reported in 2012, that more than 80% of college students drink alcohol, with estimated 40% report binge drinking in the past 2 weeks, and about 25% report having academic consequences because of their drinking. 56% of students reported binge drinking once a week. In comparison, the comparable figure of alcoholism for American Indian and Alaskan Native youth (\"Native youth\" hereafter) is approximately 80 percent (Beauvais, Oetting, & Wolf, 1989).\n\nIndividual and environmental factors for experiencing alcohol-related consequences have been identified such as drinking during high-risk periods, such as spring break, or belonging to specific student subgroups (e.g., Greek organizations). Drinking throughout high school also played a role, suggesting that binge drinking starts earlier than college for some.\n\n\n7. Dodd, L.J., Al-Nakeeb, Y., Nevill, A. and Forshaw, M.J., 2010. Lifestyle risk factors of students: a cluster analytical approach. \"Preventive medicine\", \"51\"(1), pp. 73–77.\n"}
{"id": "11375639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11375639", "title": "Connections Academy", "text": "Connections Academy\n\nConnections Academy provides online school products and services to virtual schools for grades K-12, including full-time online schools bearing the \"Connections Academy\" name across the country. It is based in Columbia, Maryland and is part of Pearson's Online & Blended Learning K-12 group. It supports public online schools for grades K-12 across the United States. A private online school, International Connections Academy, is also available to students who live abroad. Online schools are an alternative to traditional public schools. Similar to charter schools, they are subsidized by the state. Although they contract with many non-profit schools, they are not a non-profit organization.\n\nIn the spring of 2001, Sylvan Ventures started a separate business unit to create a virtual school program with its first virtual schools beginning in Wisconsin and Colorado. The company first began providing online school services to two schools in the fall of 2002. In September 2004, Connections Academy was sold to an investor group led by Apollo Management, L.P. The company now operates public schools under management contracts from charter schools or school districts.\n\nA new corporate entity called Connections Education was established in early 2011. In this same year, on September 15, 2011, Pearson, an international learning company, acquired Connections Education for in excess of $400 million.\n\nConnections Education consists of two education-focused divisions including Connections Academy and Pearson Online & Blended Learning that serves educational institutions and other organizations with online learning solutions.\n\nIn October 2017, Alabama became the 34th state to partner with Connection Academy.\n\nIn December 2017, it was announced that one Connections Academy school's contract would not be renewed and the decision is under appeal. \n\n2015 & 2016 awards include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39219632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39219632", "title": "Conversocial", "text": "Conversocial\n\nConversocial is a provider of social customer service software headquartered in New York City and founded in London. Companies such as Google, Barclaycard, Hertz, Tesco, Sainsbury's, Volkswagen and University of Phoenix use Conversocial's Software as a Service to manage the flow of customer service inquiries and discussions on social media channels such as Facebook and Twitter, Google+, Instagram and YouTube.\n\nJoshua March founded Conversocial in November 2009 in London. After spending two years working with applications for social media for both the Facebook Developer Garage London and iPlatform, he realized that social media was the future of communications online. After iPlatform, which they sold to social media marketing company Betapond in 2012, March has focused solely on Conversocial.\n\nIn February 2016, Twitter announced that Conversocial is a Twitter Official Partner, and is working with the company to add deep messaging deep links to tweets.\n\nIn February 2017, Twitter announced that would deepen its partnership with Conversocial for greater growth and monetization in the area of social customer service.\n\nSince Conversocial’s public launch at Tempero (now icuc.social) in 2010, they’ve released their Enterprise edition and raised a total of $23.96 million in funding. In 2012 Conversocial expanded to the USA, opening its headquarters in Manhattan, New York.\n\nIn 2013,Conversocial received $4.4 million in additional funding from a round led by Octopus Ventures.\n\nIn 2014,Conversocial received $5 million in additional funding from a round led by Octopus Ventures.\n\nIn 2015,Conversocial received $11 million in additional funding from a round led by Dawn Capital.\n\nConversocial is a real-time social media management system which allows companies to provide customer support through Facebook and Twitter. Conversocial's functions include:\n\n\nCEO Joshua March has appeared on CNBC, Bloomberg, Fox Business, and BBC as a commentator on customer service and social media, and was named one of 2012’s Top 10 Hottest Digital Marketers by iMedia Connection. Josh March frequently writes about social media and customer service, and his work has been featured in numerous business and technology publications.\n\nPreviously Joshua and Dan Lester co-founded iPlatform, a social app development company, which was acquired by Betapond in September 2012. From 2008 to 2010 Joshua was the Chairman of the Facebook Developer Garage London, an official Facebook event running monthly for developers, entrepreneurs and marketers working on the Facebook platform, which he helped found in 2007.\n\nMost recently, Conversocial was named a \"cool vendor\" in the CRM Customer Service and Social Report published by leading analyst firm Gartner The UK publication V3 has also named Conversocial one of Top 10 up-and-coming UK technology start-ups for 2013.\n\nIn 2010 Conversocial won \"Highly Commended\" in the Best Platform category of TechCrunch's The Europas- European Startup Awards. In 2011, Conversocial was the overall winner in the Best Advertising or Marketing Tech Startup category, and in 2013 they were \"Highly Commended\" in the Best Advertising or Marketing Tech Startup.\n\n"}
{"id": "32175327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32175327", "title": "Eddie Friel", "text": "Eddie Friel\n\nEdward Joseph (Eddie) Friel was born in Belfast in 1962. He is a B. Mus. Honours graduate who in 1986 started his professional career as a music teacher. After one year he decided to pursue his talents as a musician and composer in local piano bars at home as well as in Canada and Europe, where he travelled for a year. He has toured with Van Morrison as a piano player and features extensively on Van Morrison's album \"Hymns to the Silence\".\n\nIn 1995 he represented Ireland in the Eurovision Song Contest with the song \"Dreamin'\". The song finished a disappointing 14th place; Norway won the contest, breaking the three years Ireland staged the contest.\n"}
{"id": "375170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=375170", "title": "Education in Finland", "text": "Education in Finland\n\nEducation in Finland is an education system with fully subsidised meals served to full-time students. The present education system in Finland consists of daycare programmes (for babies and toddlers) and a one-year \"pre-school\" (or kindergarten for six-year-olds); a nine-year compulsory basic comprehensive school (starting at age seven and ending at the age of sixteen); post-compulsory secondary general academic and vocational education; higher education (University and University of applied sciences); and adult (lifelong, continuing) education. The Finnish strategy for achieving equality and excellence in education has been based on constructing a publicly funded comprehensive school system with selecting, tracking, or streaming students during their common basic education. Part of the strategy has been to spread the school network so that pupils have a school near their homes whenever possible or, if this is not feasible, e.g. in rural areas, to provide free transportation to more widely dispersed schools. Inclusive special education within the classroom and instructional efforts to minimize low achievement are also typical of Nordic educational systems.\n\nAfter their nine-year basic education in a comprehensive school, students at the age of 16 may choose to continue their secondary education in either an academic track (\"lukio\") or a vocational track (\"ammattikoulu\"), both of which usually take three years and give a qualification to continue to tertiary education. Tertiary education is divided into university and polytechnic (\"ammattikorkeakoulu\", also known as \"university of applied sciences\") systems. Universities award licentiate- and doctoral-level degrees. Formerly, only university graduates could obtain higher (postgraduate) degrees, however, since the implementation of the Bologna process, all bachelor's degree holders can now qualify for further academic studies. There are 17 universities and 27 universities of applied sciences in the country.\n\nThe Education Index, published with the UN's Human Development Index in 2008, based on data from 2006, lists Finland as 0.993, amongst the highest in the world, tied for first with Denmark, Australia and New Zealand. The Finnish Ministry of Education attributes its success to \"the education system (uniform basic education for the whole age group), highly competent teachers, and the autonomy given to schools.\"\n\nFinland has consistently ranked high in the PISA study, which compares national educational systems internationally, although in the recent years Finland has been displaced from the very top. In the 2012 study, Finland ranked sixth in reading, twelfth in mathematics and fifth in science, while back in the 2003 study Finland was first in both science and reading and second in mathematics. Finland's tertiary Education has moreover been ranked first by the World Economic Forum.\n\nWhile celebrated for its overall success, Finland's gender gap on the 2012 PISA reading examinations was identified in a 2015 Brookings Institution report, however this can be put down to many factors such as the choice of the field of work in which each respective genders go into. The performance of 15-year-old boys on that reading examination was not significantly different from OECD averages and 0.66 standard deviations behind that of girls the same age.\n\nGovernments of Jyrki Katainen, Alexander Stubb and Juha Sipilä cut education funds in Finland during 2011-2018 by a total of €1.5 billion. The number of university and college employees was cut by more than 7500.\n\nLiteracy is a key part of Lutheranism, the state and majority religion of Finland, as Christians are supposed to be able to read the Bible in their native language. Bishop Mikael Agricola studied under Martin Luther and translated the New Testament to Finnish in 1548. The first university in Finland (Royal Academy of Turku) was founded in 1640. Literacy reached over 50% in the late 18th century and 80-90% in the mid-19th century. Wherein there were no schools in the municipality, reading was taught in traveling schools (\"kiertokoulu\"). Confirmation, a rite of transition to adulthood, is only permissible to the literate, and enables e.g. entrance into marriage. Official statistics are available since 1880, when literacy was 97.6%. The early system under the Swedish rule was in Swedish and consisted of a basic \"pedagogio\" for teaching reading and writing, a trivial school teaching grammar, Latin, Greek, rhetoric and dialectics, a gymnasium preparing for university, and the university. In the 19th century, the system evolved into what was later known as \"kansakoulu\" (\"people's school\") and \"oppikoulu\" (\"learning school\"), including gymnasium (\"lukio\"), followed by university. In mid-19th century, Finnish became an official language, and gradually replaced Swedish as the schooling language. In 1898, everyone was given the right to attend \"kansakoulu\". Attendance reached 50% in 1911 and became mandatory in 1921; municipalities were obliged to provide the schooling. Free school lunches became mandatory in 1948. \"Oppikoulu\", entered at the age of 10, was still optional and entrance was competitive. Since it was the only way to university education and entrance was heavily affected by the status and choices of parents, it severely limited the opportunities of the less-well off. Working-class people would often complete only the \"kansakoulu\" and enter the workforce. This system was phased out in 1972-1977, in favor of the modern system where grades 1-9 are mandatory. After the age of 15, the system bifurcates into academic (\"lukio\") and vocational tracks (\"ammattikoulu\") both at the secondary and tertiary levels. Recently, it became formally possible to enter tertiary education with a vocational degree, although this is practically difficult as the vocational study plan does not prepare the student for the university entrance exams.\n\nIn Finland, high class daycare and nursery-kindergarten are considered critical for developing the cooperation and communication skills important to prepare young children for lifelong education, as well as formal learning of reading and mathematics. This preparatory period lasts until the age of 7. Finnish early childhood education emphasizes respect for each child’s individuality and chance for each child to develop as a unique person. Finnish early educators also guide children in the development of social and interactive skills, encourage them to pay attention to other people’s needs and interests, \"to care about others\", and to have a positive attitude toward other people, other cultures, and different environments. The purpose of gradually providing opportunities for increased independence is to enable all children to take care of themselves as “becoming adults, to be capable of making responsible decisions, to participate productively in society as an active citizen, and to take care of other people who will need his [or her] help.”\n\nTo foster a culture of reading, parents of newborn babies are given three books - one for each parent, and a baby book for the child - as part of the \"maternity package\". According to Finnish child development specialist Eeva Hujala, \"Early education is the first and most critical stage of lifelong learning. Neurological research has shown that 90% of brain growth occurs during the first five years of life, and 85% of the nerve paths develop before starting school (NB: at the age of seven in Finland).\" \"Care\" in this context is synonymous with upbringing and is seen as a cooperative endeavor between parents and society to prepare children physically (eating properly, keeping clean) and mentally (communication, social awareness, empathy, and self-reflection) before beginning more formal learning at age seven. The idea is that before seven they learn best through play, so by the time they finally get to school they are keen to start learning.\n\nFinland has had access to free universal daycare for children aged eight months to five years in place since 1990, and a year of \"preschool/kindergarten\" at age six, since 1996. \"Daycare\" includes both full-day childcare centers and municipal playgrounds with adult supervision where parents can accompany the child. Municipalities also pay mothers who wish to do so to remain at home and provide \"home daycare\" for the first three years. In some cases this includes occasional visits from a careworker to see that the environment is appropriate. The ratio of adults to children in local municipal childcare centers (either private but subsidized by local municipalities or paid for by municipalities with the help of grants from the central government) is, for children three years old and under: three adults (one teacher and two nurses) for every 12 pupils (or one-to-four); and, for children age three to six: three adults (one teacher and two nurses) for every 20 children (or circa one-to-seven). Payment, where applicable, is scaled to family income and ranges from free to about 200 euros a month maximum. According to Pepa Ódena in these centers, \"You are not \"taught\", you learn. The children learn through playing. This philosophy is put into practice in all the schools we visited, in what the teachers say, and in all that one sees.\"\n\nEarly childhood education is not mandatory in Finland, but is used by almost everyone. “We see it as the right of the child to have daycare and pre-school,” explained Eeva Penttilä, of Helsinki’s Education Department. “It’s not a place where you dump your child when you’re working. It’s a place for your child to play and learn and make friends. Good parents put their children in daycare. It’s not related to socioeconomic class”.\n\nThe focus for kindergarten students is to “learn how to learn”, Ms. Penttilä said. Instead of formal instruction in reading and math there are lessons on nature, animals, and the “circle of life” and a focus on materials- based learning. It is strongly believed that when children develop learning to learn as a life skill and see the real life applications of the knowledge they gather, they will become lifelong learners.\n\nThe compulsory educational system in Finland consists of a nine-year comprehensive school from 1st to 9th grade, from the ages of 7 to 16 (Finnish \"peruskoulu\", Swedish \"grundskola\", \"basic school\"), in which attendance is mandatory. (Homeschooling is allowed, but rare). There are no \"gifted\" programs, and the more advanced children are expected to help those who are slower to catch on.\n\nIn most countries, the term \"comprehensive school\" is used to refer to comprehensive schools attended after primary school, and up to 12th and 13th grade in some countries, but in Finland this English term is used to include primary school, i.e. it is used to refer to all of the grades 1 to 9 (and not higher grades). One can of course also describe the Finnish grades 1 to 6 in English as being comprehensive schools, but this is unnecessary and confusing because primary schools have always been comprehensive in almost all countries, including Finland. In addition, it is best to not try to translate the Finnish term \"peruskoulu\" with a single term in English. In order to avoid confusion in English, it is best to describe the Finnish compulsory education system as consisting of 6-year primary schools, called \"alakoulu\" or \"ala-aste\" in Finnish, followed by comprehensive 3-year middle schools, called \"yläkoulu\" or \"yläaste\" in Finnish. Although this division of the peruskoulu into two parts was officially discontinued, it is still very much alive — the distinction is made in everyday speech, the teachers' training and classification and teaching, and even in most school buildings. In addition, the use of two different terms for grades 1-6 and 7-9 is easier to understand for people from most other countries, most of which do not have a single term for primary and middle schools. On the contrary, middle schools and high schools are usually included in the term secondary education in English, which is why the use of this term in English is often confusing for Finns. (The Finnish direct translation \"toisen asteen koulutus/oppilaitos\" only refers to schools after 9th grade, i.e. high schools, vocational schools, etc.)\n\nSchools up to the university level are almost exclusively funded and administered by the municipalities of Finland (local government). There are few private schools. The founding of a new private comprehensive school requires a decision by the Council of State. When founded, private schools are given a state grant comparable to that given to a municipal school of the same size. However, even in private schools, the use of tuition fees is strictly prohibited, and selective admission is prohibited, as well: private schools must admit all its pupils on the same basis as the corresponding municipal school. In addition, private schools are required to give their students all the education and social benefits that are offered to the students of municipal schools. Because of this, existing private schools are mostly faith-based or Steiner schools, which are comprehensive by definition.\n\nTeachers, who are fully unionized, follow state curriculum guidelines but are accorded a great deal of autonomy as to methods of instruction and are even allowed to choose their own textbooks.\n\nClasses are small, seldom more than twenty pupils. From the outset pupils are expected to learn two languages in addition to the language of the school (usually Finnish or Swedish), and students in grades one through nine spend from four to eleven periods each week taking classes in art, music, cooking, carpentry, metalwork, and textiles. Small classes, insisted upon by the teachers' union, appear to be associated with student achievement, especially in science. Inside the school, the atmosphere is relaxed and informal, and the buildings are so clean that students often wear socks and no shoes. Outdoor activities are stressed, even in the coldest weather; and homework is minimal to leave room for extra-curricular activities. In addition to taking music in school, for example, many students attend the numerous state-subsidized specialized music schools after class where for a small fee they learn to play an instrument as a hobby and study basic solfège and music theory using methods originated in Hungary by Kodály and further developed by the Hungarian-born Finn Csaba Szilvay and others.\n\nReading for pleasure is actively encouraged (Finland publishes more children's books than any other country). Television stations show foreign programs in the original languages with subtitles, so that in Finland children even read while watching TV.\n\nDuring the first years of comprehensive school, grading may be limited to verbal assessments rather than formal grades. The start of numerical grading is decided locally. Most commonly, pupils are issued a report card twice a year: at the ends of the autumn and spring terms. There are no high-stakes tests.\n\nGrades are awarded on a scale from 4 to 10. In individual exams, but not on school year report or basic education certificate, it is also possible to divide the scale further with '½', which represents a half grade, and '+' and '–', which represent one-fourth a grade better or worse. For example, the order is \"9 < 9+ < 9½ < 10– < 10\". The grade '10+' can also be awarded for a perfect performance with extra effort by the student.\n\nIf a comprehensive school pupil receives a grade of 4 for a particular subject at the end of the spring term, they must show that they have improved in the subject by sitting a separate examination at the end of summer term. If the pupil receives multiple failing grades, they may have to repeat the entire year, though it is considered far preferable to provide a struggling student with extra help and tutoring. In the rare case where a student needs to repeat, the decision is made by the teachers and the headmaster after interviewing the pupil and the parents.\n\nComprehensive school students enjoy a number of social entitlements, such as school health care and a free lunch every day, which covers about a third of the daily nutritional need. In addition, pupils are entitled to receive free books and materials and free school trips (or even housing) in the event that they have a long or arduous trip to school.\n\nIn December 2017 the OECD reported that Finnish fathers spend an average of eight minutes a day more with their school-aged children than mothers do.\n\nUpper secondary education begins at 16 or 17 and lasts three to four years (roughly corresponding to the last two years of American high school plus what in the USA would be a two-year Community or Junior College). It is not compulsory. Finnish upper secondary students may choose whether to undergo occupational training to develop vocational competence and/or to prepare them for a polytechnic institute or to enter an academic upper school focusing on preparation for university studies and post-graduate professional degrees in fields such as law, medicine, science, education, and the humanities. Admissions to academic upper schools are based on GPA, and in some cases academic tests and interviews. For example, during the year 2007, 51% of the age group were enrolled in the academic upper school.\n\nThe system, however, is not rigid and vocational school graduates may formally qualify for a university of applied sciences or, in some cases, university education; conversely, academic secondary school graduates may enroll in vocational education programs. It is also possible to attend both vocational and academic secondary schools at the same time. Tuition is free, and vocational and academic students are entitled to school health care and a free lunch. However, they must buy their own books and materials.\n\nUpon graduation, vocational school graduates receive a vocational school certificate. Academic upper secondary school graduates receive both secondary school certification and undergo a nationally graded matriculation examination (Finnish: \"Ylioppilastutkinto\"). This was originally the entrance examination to the University of Helsinki, and its high prestige survives to this day. Students in special programs may receive a vocational school certificate and take the matriculation examination (\"kaksoistutkinto\") or all of the three certifications (\"kolmoistutkinto\"). Approximately 83% of the upper academic school students, or 42% of the age group, complete the matriculation examination.\n\nPolytechnic institutes require school certification for admission, whereas the matriculation examination is more important in university admissions. However, some tertiary education programs have their own admission examinations, and many use a mixture of both.\n\nIn relation to mathematics, the second national language and foreign languages, a student can choose to study a curriculum from different levels of difficulty. Students choose their relevant levels at the beginning of school, when selecting appropriate courses, and at the end of school, when registering for the matriculation exam in order to receive the relevant exam paper. These two choices are not directly linked, but students generally keep the level the same for the matriculation exam. One common exception to this rule of thumb occurs when a student has barely completed a higher level course and is unsure of their performance in the matriculation exam. In those cases, a student may elect to take an easier exam.\n\nIn mathematics, the advanced level is in practice a prerequisite for the more competitive university science programs, such as those of the universities of technology, other university mathematical science programs, and medicine. In mathematics, 20% of the matriculation examinees take the advanced level. The nationwide matriculation exam together with entirely percentile-based grading provides an easy way to objectively classify each student based on their mathematical ability, regardless of the year when the exam was taken. For example, assuming that the best mathematical students are selected first to the upper academic school and then to the advanced mathematics curriculum, the students achieving laudatur would comprise the mathematically best 0.4% of the age group, comparable to 800 SAT mathematics section. The percentile equality does not, however, mean that the absolute level of a laudatur student in the advanced mathematics in Finland is equal to that of an 800 SAT student in the USA, due to differences in the mean quality of the population.\n\nBoth primary and secondary teachers must have a master's degree to qualify. Teaching is a respected profession and entrance to university programs is highly competitive. A prospective teacher must have very good grades and must combat fierce opposition in order to become a teacher. Only about 10% of applicants to certain programs are successful. The respect accorded to the profession and salaries higher than the OECD average lead to higher performance levels and larger numbers applying for the positions, and this is reflected in the quality of teachers in Finland.\n\nThere are two sectors in the tertiary education: traditional universities (\"yliopisto\", \"universitet\") and universities of applied sciences (\"ammattikorkeakoulu\", \"yrkeshögskola\", or \"AMK\"/\"YH\" for short). Admissions are based on the high school final GPA, the high school final exam (the \"abitur\"), and the university entrance examinations. The selection process is fully transparent, merit-based, and objective; there are no application essays, no human factor in selection, no underrepresented minority support (except for preset quotas for Swedish speakers), and no weight on extracurricular activities. Moreover, the entrance examinations are rarely long multiple-choice exams, and instead consist of a smaller number of longer and more complicated questions that are supposed to test more than memorization and quick mechanical problem solving. Therefore, the selection process is very different from many other countries.\n\nThe focus for universities is research, and they give theoretical education. In many programs graduating with a master's degree is expected, with no separate admissions process between Bachelor and master's degrees. The universities of applied sciences focus more on responding to the needs of the world of work and they engage in industry development projects. The nature of research is more practical and theories are applied to advanced problem solving. For example, physicians are university graduates, whereas registered nurses and engineers graduate from universities of applied sciences. (However, universities also award degrees in Nursing Science and Engineering.) The vocational schools and universities of applied sciences are governed by municipalities, or, in special cases, by private entities. (As an exception to the rule, Police College is governed by the Ministry of the Interior.) All Finnish universities, on the other hand, were owned by the state until 2010, after which they have been separated from the state into foundations or corporations under public law. A bachelor's degree takes about three–four years. Depending on the programme, this may be the point of graduation, but it is usually only an intermediate step towards the master's degree. A bachelor's degree in a university of applied sciences (a polytechnic degree), on the other hand, takes about 3.5–4.5 years. Polytechnic degrees are generally accepted as lower university degrees.\n\nGraduates from universities and universities of applied sciences are able to continue their studies by applying to master's degree programmes in universities or universities of applied sciences. After bachelor's degree graduates have completed three years' work experience in their field, they are qualified to apply for master's degree programmes in universities of applied sciences which are work- and research-oriented. Lower university degree graduates are also qualified to apply, but with additional studies. The master's degree programme in universities of applied sciences takes two years and can be undertaken in conjunction with regular work. After the master's degree, the remaining degrees (Licentiate and Doctor) are available only in universities. All master's degrees qualify their recipients for graduate studies at doctoral level.\n\nThe equivalence discussed above is only relevant when applying for public sector jobs.\n\nNo tuition fees are collected. However, since the 1990s there have been plans at government level to introduce tuition fees to students from outside the European Union/EEA. The students' organisations have opposed those plans. In universities, membership in the students' union is compulsory. Students' unions in universities of applied sciences are similarly recognized in the legislation, but membership is voluntary and does not include special university student health care (which is organised and partly financed by the students' unions). Finnish students are entitled to a student benefit, which may be revoked if there is a persistent lack of progress in the studies.\n\nSome universities provide professional degrees. They have additional requirements in addition to merely completing the studies, such as demonstrations of competence in practice. An example of such a degree is \"Lääketieteen lisensiaatti\", \"medicine licentiat\", Licentiate of Medicine. A Bachelor of Medicine (\"lääketieteen kandidaatti\", \"medicine kandidat\") is allowed to conduct clinical work under the supervision of senior medical staff. The Licentiate of Medicine is not equivalent to licentiate's degree in other fields, but to a master's degree. For this reason, no Licentiate's thesis is required unlike in other fields. The equivalent of a Medical Doctor in the U.S. sense is therefore not called \"doctor\", but licentiate. The research doctorate, which is equivalent to a PhD in Medicine, is called \"Doctor of Medicine\" (\"lääketieteen tohtori\", \"medicine doktorsexamen\").\n\nAfter the master's degree, there are two further post-graduate degrees — an intermediate postgraduate degree, called \"Licentiate\", and the doctoral (Doctorate) degree. A Licenciate programme has the same amount of theoretical education as a Doctor, but its dissertation work has fewer requirements. On the other hand, the requirements for a doctoral dissertation are a little bit higher than in other countries.\n\nThe most typical Finnish doctoral degree is \"Doctor of Philosophy\" (\"filosofian tohtori\", \"filosofie doktorsexamen\"). However, universities of technology award the title Doctor of Science (Technology), \"tekniikan tohtori\", \"teknologie doktorsexamen\" and there are several branch-specific titles, e.g., in medicine \"lääketieteen tohtori\", \"medicine doktorsexamen\", in art \"taiteen tohtori\", and in social sciences \"valtiotieteen tohtori\", \"politices doktorsexamen\".\n\nCompleting secondary school on a vocational programme with full classes on a three-year curriculum provides a formal qualification for further studies. However, it may prove necessary to obtain post-secondary education before being admitted to a university, as the entrance examinations require a relatively high level of knowledge. Post-secondary education is provided by municipal schools or independent 'adult education centres', which can give either vocational education or teaching at comprehensive or upper secondary school levels. It is possible to obtain the matriculation diploma, or to better the comprehensive school grades, in these programmes. A new trade can also be learned by an adult at an adult education centre (\"aikuiskoulutuskeskus\", \"vuxenutbildningscenter\"), for example, if structural change of the economy has made the old trade redundant.\n\nIn universities, the \"Open University\" (, ) programme enables people without student status to enroll in individual university courses. There are no requirements, but there is a modest tuition fee (e.g., 60 euros per course). Universities of applied sciences have their own similar programme (, ). While \"Open University\" students cannot pursue studies towards a degree, they may, after passing a sufficient number of separately determined courses with a sufficiently high grade point average, be eligible for transfer into an undergraduate degree program. Alternatively, a few institutions offer foreign qualifications, such as the private Helsinki School of Business, which offers the UK-accredited Higher National Diploma, enabling graduates to earn an undergraduate degree after completing a top-up year abroad.\n\nA third branch of adult education is formed by the so-called \"vapaa sivistystyö\", the \"Free Education\". This is formed by the partially state-funded, independent educational institutes offering diverse courses varying in length and academic level. The purpose of the \"Free Education\" is not to provide professional or degree-oriented education but to \"support the multi-faceted development of personality, the ability to act in the community and to pursue the fulfilment of democracy, equality and diversity in the society.\" Historically, the \"Free education\" stems from the late 19th century efforts to educate the general populace with little previous academic experience.\n\nThe \"Free Education\" is offered by\n\nThe most common type of \"Free Education\" is a \"kansalaisopisto\", sometimes called \"työväenopisto\" for historical reasons. These are mostly evening-type municipal institutions offering language, handicraft and humanities courses. The academic level varies strongly, and many courses do not require any requisite knowledge. The \"kansanopistos\", on the other hand, are boarding-schools, often maintained by associations with either a strong ideological or religious mission. Also here, the academic level varies strongly. In all these institutions, the courses carry a modest tuition. The Sports' training centers are institutions for the professional or semi-professional sportsmen's training, while Summer universities and study centers are auxiliary bodies for the organization of \"Free Education\".\n\nThe Minister of Education has the responsibility of electronically preserving and distributing public domain works. Finland has millions of public domain works (books, pictures, music and films) and views access to them as a basic human right of access to science and culture.\n\nThe ongoing Bologna Process blurs the distinction between vocational and academic qualifications. In some fields, new postgraduate degrees have been introduced. Co-operation between the different systems is rising and some integration will occur (although not without a substantial amount of pressure). This results from not only the Bologna Process but also the goal of Finnish politicians — to educate the vast majority of Finns to a higher degree (ca. 60–70% of each annual cohort enter higher education).\n\nIn recent years, a cut in the number of new student places has often been called for by the economic sphere, as well as trade and student unions, because of an ongoing trend of rising academic unemployment, which is interpreted as a result of the steep increase in student places in higher education in the 1990s. In particular, some degrees in universities of applied sciences (\"AMK\"/\"YH\") have suffered inflation. In a reflection of this current belief, the Ministry of Education has recently decreed a nationwide cut of 10% in new student places in universities of applied sciences to be applied starting from 2007 and 2008. It is still largely undecided whether (and when) some of those cuts could be redistributed to areas in need of a more highly educated work force. In 2001 and 2002, university graduates had a 3.7% unemployment rate, and university of applied sciences graduates had 8%, which is on a par with the general unemployment rate (see the OECD report).\nIn 2015, under prime minister Juha Sipilä's cabinet, the government decided to cut down on university funding by approximately €500 million.\n\nAn increase in vocational school student places might be preferred, as a shortage of basic workforce such as plumbers and construction workers is widely acknowledged in Finland. It should also be noted that retiring age groups are bigger than the ones entering higher education in Finland at present and for quite some time into the foreseeable future. If the current number of student places were kept unchanged to the year 2020, for example, Eastern Finland would have enough student places for 103% of the estimated size of the age group 19-21.\n\nDue to globalization and increasing competition for diminishing younger age groups, system-wide restructuring has been called for by the Ministry of Education. Since 2006 all institutions of higher education have been sharing methods of cooperation. The total number of institutions is expected to drop significantly within 10–15 years.\n\nThe process within universities began with merger of the University of Kuopio and the University of Joensuu into the University of Eastern Finland in 2010. In Helsinki, three local universities, namely Helsinki University of Technology, Helsinki School of Economics and University of Art and Design Helsinki, merged to a new Aalto University on August 1, 2009. Also several universities of applied sciences have announced mergers (such as Haaga and Helia, which merged into Haaga-Helia in 2007).\n\nNew methods of cooperation such as consortia and federations have been introduced within universities (e.g., University of Turku and Turku School of Economics Consortium). Partnerships between traditional universities and universities of applied sciences are also developing (e.g., the University of Kuopio and Savonia University of Applied Sciences formed the Northern Savonia Higher Education Consortium). In general, such system-wide change closely follows the pattern established in Central Europe, the United States, Spain and Hungary.\n\nCommencing in the 2016-2017 academic year, Finland will begin implementing educational reform that will mandate that phenomenon-based learning be introduced alongside traditional subject-based instruction. As part of a new \"National Curriculum Framework\", it will apply to all basic schools for students aged 7-16 years old. Finnish schools have used this form of instruction since the 1980s, but it was not previously mandatory. It is anticipated that educators around the world will be studying this development as Finland's educational system is considered to be a model of success by many. This shift coincides with other changes that are encouraging development of 21st century skills such as collaboration, communication, creativity, and critical thinking.\n\nIn 2011, documentary filmmaker, Bob Compton, and Harvard researcher, Dr. Tony Wagner, researched the Finnish school system and its excellence. The result of their research is the film, \"The Finland Phenomenon: Inside the World’s Most Surprising School System\".\n\nSchools in Finland grant pupils 2-5 holiday days in the autumn. Some families in the Helsinki area take schoolchildren on holidays when the trips abroad are cheaper. Trips during the school year are frowned upon by the Trade Union of Education in Finland (OAJ). This accumulated also discussion in local newspaper.\n\nEliademy.com is a Finnish-based company that provides a cloud based learning management system. Eliademy is recognized to be among the top 20 Learning management systems in the world and is part of UN global compact with a CSR program that gives the platform for free to anyone at need. Eliademy also crowdsources courses to be sold or given as OERs and aims to create the largest library of open educational resources in form of online courses. \n\nIn 2018, the University of Helsinki announced together with the Finnish tech company Reaktor that they would aim to educate 1% of all Finns on the basics of artificial intelligence. The organizations said they want to make Finland \"the world's most educated country in the field of artificial intelligence.\" The course is freely accessible to anyone anywhere online and has already garnered over 24,000 sign-ups, almost half of the total target of 54,000.\n\nOne of the competitive advantages in Finland has been ability in foreign language. All students learn at least two foreign languages, mainly English and obligatory Swedish, up to high school. A citizens' initiative to remove obligatory Swedish from education in favour of other languages was accepted for parliamentary vote in 2014 but failed to pass.\n\n\nFinnish educational authorities\n\nInternational organizations\n\nNews\n\nOthers\n"}
{"id": "51192656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51192656", "title": "Energy: A National Issue", "text": "Energy: A National Issue\n\nEnergy: A National Issue is a 1977 American animated educational film starring The Flintstones, narrated by Charlton Heston and produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions. It was produced in 1976 and was also the final \"Flintstones\" production to feature Alan Reed as the voice of Fred Flintstone before his death in 1977. The film was distributed to schools in 16 mm format and broadcast as a syndicated television special on November 22, 1977.\n\nThe film follows Fred and Wilma Flintstone through the history of energy sources. As Fred and Wilma discover many facts about energy and the economy, viewers realize they must use our energy sources more efficiently to buy time to solve the problem. The film uses animation, art, and graphics to dramatize the role energy has played in our lives and outline future energy requirements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3992868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3992868", "title": "Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society", "text": "Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society\n\nFellowship of the Royal Aeronautical Society (FRAeS) is an award and fellowship granted to individuals that the Royal Aeronautical Society judges to:\n\n\nFellows are entitled to use the post-nominal letters \"FRAeS\". examples of fellows include Douglas Bader, J. W. Dunne and David Eagles, see the for more examples.\n\nHonorary Fellows are entitled to the post-nominal letters \"Hon FRAeS\".\n"}
{"id": "8992946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8992946", "title": "Finnish International Baccalaureate Society", "text": "Finnish International Baccalaureate Society\n\nThe Finnish International Baccalaureate Society ry. (FIBS) is a registered organization in Finland. Its members are students in the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme. The organization's purpose is to advance the recognition of the IB in Finnish institutes of higher education and facilitate the placement of students into universities. It is also a member of the Finnish Upper Secondary School Students' Union (SLL).\n\nFIBS has a board that consists of a chairman and thirteen board members. The chairman and the board are elected at the organization's fall assembly by all members. \n\nThe current board:\n\n\nSo far, FIBS has managed to convince the University of Helsinki to not require the normally mandatory Swedish examination from IB students. Also, Helsinki University of Technology allows IB students to apply with their final grades and without entrance examinations if certain criteria are fulfilled; the student had to study Math and Chemistry or Physics at Higher Level and score a minimum of 34 points. Some programs also have maximum quotas for this kind of application. Also, upon requests by FIBS and others, the International Baccalaureate Organization has decided to print umlauts and other non-ASCII characters on IB graduates' diplomas.\n\n"}
{"id": "31270987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31270987", "title": "Firefly Learning", "text": "Firefly Learning\n\nFirefly Learning is an educational technology company based in London, England with offices in Sydney, Australia that provides virtual learning platforms to hundreds of schools around the world. The Firefly platform allows teachers, students and parents to publish and access information from anywhere with an internet connection.\n\nFirefly Learning was started in 2000 by Joe Mathewson and Simon Hay, two 15-year-old students at St. Paul’s School in London, who developed it during school holidays, after they became frustrated with the school’s antiquated intranet system. They developed the concept during lunch breaks at the physics labs and teachers at St. Paul's began using the system. Soon afterward, Forest School expressed interest in the new system.\n\nIn 2010, students at Wellington College stranded due to ash cloud grounding thousands of flights were able to continue with their lessons via an e-learning platform provided by Firefly Learning. In 2012 BETT nominated Firefly for an Innovation in ICT award for its development of the Student Planner iPad app that automatically updated students' planners with assignments assigned by the teacher.\n\nFirefly has been named a BETT finalist every year since, and in 2014 won an innovation award in London.\n\nIn November 2016, Firefly raised $5.6 million (£4.5 million) Series A funding round from BGF Ventures and Beringea. By that time, Firefly learning was used by 480 schools in 32 countries.\n\nThe cloud-based support platform used by Firefly allows teachers to set homework assignments, track students' progress, provide feedback and share learning resources, on it. The platform is has desktop and mobile apps, and its own API for education software providers allowing the users to plug in their content.\n\n"}
{"id": "880234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880234", "title": "Galway Kinnell", "text": "Galway Kinnell\n\nGalway Kinnell (February 1, 1927 – October 28, 2014) was an American poet. He won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry for his 1982 collection, \"Selected Poems\" and split the National Book Award for Poetry with Charles Wright.\nFrom 1989 to 1993 he was poet laureate for the state of Vermont.\n\nAn admitted follower of Walt Whitman, Kinnell rejects the idea of seeking fulfillment by escaping into the imaginary world. His best-loved and most anthologized poems are \"St. Francis and the Sow\" and \"After Making Love We Hear Footsteps\".\n\nBorn in Providence, Rhode Island, Kinnell said that as a youth he was turned on to poetry by Edgar Allan Poe and Emily Dickinson, drawn to both the musical appeal of their poetry and the idea that they led solitary lives. The allure of the language spoke to what he describes as the homogeneous feel of his hometown, Pawtucket, Rhode Island. He has also described himself as an introvert during his childhood.\n\nKinnell studied at Princeton University, graduating in 1948 alongside friend and fellow poet W.S. Merwin. He received his master of arts degree from the University of Rochester. He traveled extensively in Europe and the Middle East, and went to Paris on a Fulbright Fellowship. During the 1960s, the Civil Rights Movement in the United States caught his attention. Upon returning to the US, he joined CORE (Congress of Racial Equality) and worked on voter registration and workplace integration in Hammond, Louisiana. This effort got him arrested. In 1968, he signed the \"Writers and Editors War Tax Protest\" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War. Kinnell draws upon both his involvement with the civil rights movement and his experiences protesting against the Vietnam War in his book-long poem \"The Book of Nightmares\".\n\nFrom 1989 to 1993 he was poet laureate for the state of Vermont.\n\nKinnell was the Erich Maria Remarque Professor of Creative Writing at New York University and a Chancellor of the American Academy of Poets. As of 2011 he was retired and resided at his home in Vermont until his death in October 2014 from leukemia.\n\nWhile much of Kinnell's work seems to deal with social issues, it is by no means confined to one subject. Some critics have pointed to the spiritual dimensions of his poetry, as well as the nature imagery present throughout his work. \"The Fundamental Project of Technology\" deals with all three of those elements, creating an eerie, chant-like and surreal exploration of the horrors atomic weapons inflict on humanity and nature. Sometimes Kinnell utilizes simple and brutal images (\"Lieutenant! / This corpse will not stop burning!\" from \"The Dead Shall be Raised Incorruptible\") to address his anger at the destructiveness of humanity, informed by Kinnell's activism and love of nature. There's also a certain sadness in all of the horror—\"Nobody would write poetry if the world seemed perfect.\" There's also optimism and beauty in his quiet, ponderous language, especially in the large role animals and children have in his later work (\"Other animals are angels. Human babies are angels\"), evident in poems such as \"Daybreak\" and \"After Making Love We Hear Footsteps\".\n\nIn addition to his works of poetry and his translations, Kinnell published one novel (\"Black Light\", 1966) and one children's book (\"How the Alligator Missed Breakfast\", 1982).\n\nKinnell wrote two elegies for his close friend, the poet James Wright, upon the latter's death in 1980. They appear in \"From the Other World: Poems in Memory of James Wright\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42966332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42966332", "title": "Gauri Jog", "text": "Gauri Jog\n\nGauri Jog is a Kathak dancer, Choreographer and research scholar from Chicago. She has been practicing Kathak dance and considered as an exponent of Lucknow and Jaipur Gharana. Her creations include Krishna Leela, Shakuntala, Jhansi Ki Rani, Kathak Yatra, East meets West, Fire - the Fiery Tale among others. She brings to life traditional \"art of storytelling\" through the technical elements in Kathak. She is very popular especially among younger generation due to her unique approach to combine some Bollywood steps and Yoga into the Kathak while taking care not to cross the boundaries of tradition. \nHer experiments with combining Kathak with Flamenco, Bharatanatyam, Odissi, Mexican and American Ballet have won many accolades. Since 1999 Gauri \nJog and her group have performed more than 325 dance shows in North America and India.\n\nGauri Jog was born in 1970 at Nagpur and received intense, disciplined and meticulous training from her Guru Madan Pande of Lucknow Gharana who emphasized rhythmic \nfootwork and its permutations. She also studied Kathak dance from Lalita Hardas of Jaipur Gharana, known for the art of abhinaya. She also studied from Madhurita \nSarang of Mumbai. She started dance training at 5 and gave her first performance when she was 7 years old. Gauri Jog obtained Bachelor of Science and \nNutrition and Masters in Education from University of Nagpur. She has attended numerous workshops by eminent Kathak Gurus from India including Pandit Birju Maharaj. She practices combination of Lucknow and Jaipur Gharana of Kathak.\n\nGauri Jog\n"}
{"id": "1396834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1396834", "title": "High culture", "text": "High culture\n\nHigh culture encompasses the cultural products of aesthetic value, which a society collectively esteem as exemplary art. It may also include intellectual works considered to be of supreme philosophical, historical, or literary value, as well as the education which cultivates such aesthetic and intellectual pursuits. In popular usage, the term \"high culture\" identifies the culture of an upper class (an aristocracy) or of a status class (the intelligentsia); and also identifies a society’s common repository of broad-range knowledge and tradition (e.g. folk culture) that transcends the social-class system of the society. Sociologically, the term \"high culture\" is contrasted with the term \"low culture\", the forms of popular culture characteristic of the less-educated social classes, such as the barbarians, the Philistines, and \"hoi polloi\" (the masses).\n\nIn European history, high culture was understood as a cultural concept common to the humanities, until the mid-19th century, when Matthew Arnold introduced the term \"high culture\" in the book \"Culture and Anarchy\" (1869). The Preface defines culture as \"the disinterested endeavour after man’s perfection\" pursued, obtained, and achieved by effort to \"know the best that has been said and thought in the world.\" Such a literary definition of high culture also comprehends philosophy. Moreover, the philosophy of aesthetics proposed in high culture is a force for moral and political good. Critically, the term \"high culture\" is contrasted with the terms \"popular culture\" and \"mass culture\".\n\nIn \"Notes Towards the Definition of Culture\" (1948), T. S. Eliot said that high culture and popular culture are necessary and complementary parts of the culture of a society. In \"The Uses of Literacy\" (1957), Richard Hoggart presents the sociologic experience of the working-class man and woman in acquiring the cultural literacy, at university, which facilitates social upward mobility. In the U.S., Harold Bloom and F. R. Leavis pursued the definition of high culture, by way of the Western canon of literature.\nMedia theorist Steven Johnson writes that, unlike popular culture, \"the classics—and soon to be classics—are\" in their own right descriptions and explanations of the cultural systems that produced them.\" He says that \"a crucial way in which mass culture differs from high art\" is that individual works of mass culture are less interesting than the broader cultural trends which produced them.\n\nHistory of high culture in the West\n\nThe high culture of the West originated in the classical-world traditions of intellectual and aesthetic life in Ancient Greece (from c. 8th century BC – AD 147) and Ancient Rome (753 BC – AD 476). In the classical Greco-Roman tradition, the ideal mode of language was published and preserved in works of elevated style (correct grammar, syntax, and diction). Certain forms of language used by authors in valorized epochs were held up in antiquity and the Renaissance as eternal valid models and normative standards of excellence; e.g. the Attic dialect of ancient Greek spoken and written by the playwrights and philosophers of Periclean Athens (fifth century BC); and the form of classical Latin used in the \"Golden Age\" of Roman culture (c. 70 B.C. - AD 18) represented by such figures as Cicero and Virgil.This form of education was known to the Greeks as παιδεία, which was translated by the Romans into Latin as \"humanitas\" 'since it reflected a form of education aiming at the refinement of human nature, rather than the acquisition of technical or vocational skills. Indeed, the Greco-Roman world tended to see such manual, commercial, and technical labor as subordinate to purely intellectual activities. From the idea of the \"free\" man with sufficient leisure to pursue such intellectual and aesthetic refinement, arose the classical distinction between the \"liberal\" arts which are intellectual and done for their own sake, as against the \"servile\"or \"mechanical\" arts which were associated with manual labor and done to earn a living.\nThis implied an association between high culture and the upper classes whose inherited wealth provided such time for intellectual cultivation. The leisured gentleman not weighed down by the necessity of earning a living, was free to devote himself to activities proper to such a \"free man\" – those deemed to involve true excellence and nobility as opposed to mere utility.\nDuring the Renaissance, the classical intellectual values of the fully rediscovered Græco–Roman culture were the cultural capital of the upper classes(and the aspiring), and aimed at the complete development of human intellectual, aesthetic, and moral faculties. This ideal associated with humanism (a later term derived from the humanities or \"studia humanitatis\"), was communicated in Renaissance Italy through institutions such as the Renaissance court schools. Renaissance humanism soon spread through Europe becoming much of the basis of upper class education for centuries. For the socially ambitious man and woman who means to rise in society, \"The Book of the Courtier\" (1528), by Baldasare Castiglione, instructs the reader to acquire and possess knowledge of the Græco–Roman Classics, being education integral to the social-persona of the aristocrat. A key contribution of the Renaissance was the elevation of painting and sculpture to a status equal to the liberal arts (hence the visual arts lost for elites any lingering negative association with manual artisanship.) The early Renaissance treatises of Leon Battista Alberti were instrumental in this regard.\n\nThe evolution of the concept of high culture initially was defined in educational terms largely as critical study and knowledge of the Græco–Roman arts and humanities which furnished much of the foundation for European cultures and societies. However, aristocratic patronage through most of the modern era was also pivotal to the support and creation of new works of high culture across the range of arts, music, and literature. The subsequent prodigious development of the modern European languages and cultures meant that the modern definition of the term \"high culture\" embraces not only Greek and Latin texts, but a much broader canon of select literary, philosophical, historical, and scientific books in both ancient and modern languages. Of comparable importance are those works of art and music considered to be of the highest excellence and broadest influence (e.g. the Parthenon, the painting and sculpture of Michelangelo, the music of Mozart, etc). Together these texts and art works constitute the exemplary artifacts representing the high culture of the Western world. \nIn the Western and some East Asian traditions, art that demonstrates the imagination of the artist is accorded the status of high art. In the West this tradition began in Ancient Greece, was reinforced in the Renaissance, and by Romanticism, which eliminated the hierarchy of genres within the fine arts, which was established in the Renaissance. In China there was a distinction between the literati painting by the scholar-officials and the work produced by common artists, working in largely different styles, or the decorative arts such as Chinese porcelain which were produced by unknown craftsmen working in large factories. In both China and the West the distinction was especially clear in landscape painting, where for centuries imaginary views, produced from the imagination of the artist, were considered superior works.\n\nIn socially-stratified Europe and the Americas, a first-hand immersion to the high culture of the West, the Grand Tour of Europe, was a rite of passage that complemented and completed the book education of a gentleman, from the nobility, the aristocracy, and the bourgeoisie, with a worldly perspective of society and civilisation. The post-university tour of the cultural centres of Europe was a social-class benefit of the cultural capital transmitted through the high-status institutions (schools, academies, universities) meant to produce the ideal gentleman of that society. \n\nThe European concept of high culture included cultivation of refined etiquette and manners; the education of taste in the fine arts such as sculpture and painting; an appreciation of classical music and opera in its diverse history and myriad forms; knowledge of the humane letters (\"literae humaniores\") represented by the best Greek and Latin authors, and more broadly of the liberal arts traditions (e.g. philosophy, history, drama, rhetoric, and poetry) of Western civilisation, as well as a general acquaintance with important concepts in theology, science, and political thought.\n\nMuch of high culture consists of the appreciation of what is sometimes called \"high art\". This term is rather broader than Arnold's definition and besides literature includes music, visual arts (especially painting), and traditional forms of the performing arts (including some cinema). The decorative arts would not generally be considered high art.\n\nThe cultural products most often regarded as forming part of high culture are most likely to have been produced during periods of high civilization, for which a large, sophisticated, and wealthy urban-based society provides a coherent and conscious aesthetic framework, and a large-scale milieu of training, and, for the visual arts, sourcing materials and financing work. Such an environment enables artists, as near as possible, to realize their creative potential with as few as possible practical and technical constraints. Although the Western concept of high culture naturally concentrates on the Greco-Roman tradition, and its resumption from the Renaissance onwards, such conditions existed in other places at other times.\n\nArt music (or serious music or erudite music) is an umbrella term used to refer to musical traditions implying advanced structural and theoretical considerations and a written musical tradition. The notion of art music is a frequent and well-defined musicological distinction – musicologist Philip Tagg, for example, refers to art music as one of an \"axiomatic triangle consisting of 'folk', 'art' and 'popular' musics\". He explains that each of these three is distinguishable from the others according to certain criteria, with high cultural music often performed to an audience whilst folk music would traditionally be more participatory. In this regard, \"art music\" frequently occurs as a contrasting term to \"popular music\" and to \"traditional\" or \"folk music\".\n\nArt film is the result of filmmaking which is typically a serious, independent film aimed at a niche market rather than a mass market audience. Film critics and film studies scholars typically define an \"art film\" using a \"...canon of films and those formal qualities that mark them as different from mainstream Hollywood films\", which includes, among other elements: a social realism style; an emphasis on the authorial expressivity of the director or writer; and a focus on the thoughts and dreams of characters, rather than presenting a clear, goal-driven story. According to the film scholar David Bordwell, \"art cinema itself is a film genre, with its own distinct conventions.\"\n\nThe term has always been susceptible to attack for elitism, and, in response, many proponents of the concept devoted great efforts to promoting high culture among a wider public than the highly educated bourgeoisie whose natural territory it was supposed to be. There was a drive, beginning in the 19th century, to open museums and concert halls to give the general public access to high culture. Figures such as John Ruskin and Lord Reith of the BBC in Britain, Leon Trotsky and others in Communist Russia, and many others in America and throughout the western world have worked to widen the appeal of elements of high culture such as classical music, art by old masters and the literary classics.\n\nWith the widening of access to university education, the effort spread there, and all aspects of high culture became the objects of academic study, which with the exception of the classics had not often been the case until the late 19th century. University liberal arts courses still play an important role in the promotion of the concept of high culture, though often now avoiding the term itself.\n\nEspecially in Europe, governments have been prepared to subsidize high culture through the funding of museums, opera and ballet companies, orchestras, cinema, public broadcasting stations such as BBC Radio 3, ARTE, and in other ways. Organizations such as the Arts Council of Great Britain, and in most European countries, whole ministries administer these programs. This includes the subsidy of new works by composers, writers and artists. There are also many private philanthropic sources of funding, which are especially important in the US, where the federally funded Corporation for Public Broadcasting also funds broadcasting. These may be seen as part of the broader concept of official culture, although often a mass audience is not the intended market.\n\nThe relations between high culture and mass culture are concerns of cultural studies, media studies, and critical theory, sociology, Postmodernism and Marxist philosophy. In the essay \"The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction\" (1936), Walter Benjamin explored the relations of value of the arts (high and mass) when subjected to industrial reproduction. The critical theoreticians Theodor W. Adorno and Antonio Gramsci interpreted the high-art and mass-art cultural relations as an instrument of social control, with which the ruling class maintain their cultural hegemony upon society.\n\nFor the Orientalist Ernest Renan and for the rationalist philosopher Ernest Gellner, high culture was conceptually integral to the politics and ideology of nationalism, as a requisite part of a healthy national identity. Gellner expanded the conceptual scope of the phrase in \"Nations and Nationalism\" (1983) stating that high art is \"a literate, codified culture, which permits context-free communication\" among cultures.\n\nIn \"Distinction: A Social Critique of the Judgement of Taste\" (1979), the sociologist Pierre Bourdieu proposed that æsthetic taste (cultural judgement), derived from social class, in establishing definitions of high art by the practice of human activities such as social etiquette, gastronomy, oenology, military service. That in such activities of aesthetic judgement, the ruling-class person uses social codes unknown to middle- and the lower-class persons in the pursuit and practice activities of taste.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28084765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28084765", "title": "Iloilo Accord", "text": "Iloilo Accord\n\nThe Iloilo Accord is an academic consortium between three Philippine universities: the Central Philippine University, Silliman University, and Trinity University of Asia. Historically, these universities have regarded each other as sister schools having been founded by American Protestant missionaries belonging to three denominations: Baptists, Presbyterians, and the Episcopalians (the latter in local partnership with Aglipayans). Funded by the United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia (UBCHEA), its aims are laid out as follows:\n"}
{"id": "16635934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16635934", "title": "Information Retrieval Facility", "text": "Information Retrieval Facility\n\nThe Information Retrieval Facility (IRF), founded 2006 and located in Vienna, Austria, was a research platform for networking and collaboration for professionals in the field of information retrieval. It ceased operations in 2012.\n\nThe IRF had members in the following categories:\n\n\nMaristella Agosti, Professor, Department of Information Engineering, University of Padova\n\nGerhard Budin, Director of the Center of Translation Studies at the University of Vienna,\nDirector of the Department of Corpuslinguistics and Text Technology, Austrian Academy of Sciences\n\nJamie Callan, Professor, Language Technologies Institute, CMU, Carnegie Mellon University\n\nYves Chiaramella, Professor Emeritus, Department of Computer Science and Applied Mathematics, Joseph Fourier University\n\nKilnam Chon, Professor, Computer Science Department, Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST)\n\nW. Bruce Croft, Distinguished Professor, Department of Computer Science and Director Center for Intelligent IR University of Massachusetts Amherst\n\nHamish Cunningham, Research Professor, Computer Science Department University Sheffield\n\nNorbert Fuhr, Chairman of the Scientific Board, Professor, Institute of Informatics and Interactive Systems University Duisburg-Essen\n\nDavid Hawking, Science Leader, Project Leader, CSIRO ICT Centre\n\nNoriko Kando, Professor, Software Engineering Research, Software Research Division, National Institute of Informatics (NII)\n\nArcot Desai Narasimhalu, Associate Dean, School of Information Systems Singapore Management University\n\nJohn Tait, Chief Scientific Officer of the IRF, Until July 2007 Professor of Intelligent Information Systems and Associate Dean of the School of Computing and Technology\n\nBenjamin T'sou, Director, Language Information Sciences Research Centre, City University of Hong Kong\n\nC.J. van Rijsbergen,\nDept. Computer Science at the University of Glasgow\n\n\nCurrent technologies to extract concepts from unstructured documents are extremely computational intensive. To allow interactive experimentation with rich and huge text corpora, the IRF has built a high performance computing environment, into which the latest technological advances have been implemented:\n\n\nThe combination of these HPC features to accelerate text mining represents the IRF implementation of semantic supercomputing.\n\nThe IRF aims to bring state-of-the-art information retrieval technology to the community of patent information professionals. We expect information retrieval (IR) technology to become the focus of information technology very soon. All industry sectors can profit from applying modern and future text mining processes to the special requirements of patent research. Although all ideas and concepts are universally applicable to all sorts of intellectual property information, patents require the most sophistication, and confront us with challenging technical and organisational problems. \nThe entire body of patent-related documents possibly constitutes the largest corpus of compound documents, making it a rewarding target for text mining scientists and end-users alike. What’s more, patents have become a crucial issue, in particular for large global corporations and universities. The industrial users of patent data are among the most demanding and important information professionals. As a consequence, they could benefit the most from technology that relieves the burden of researching the large body of patent information.\n\nThe IRF provides a number of test data collections that have either been developed by the IRF, by one of its members or by third parties. These data collections can be used freely for scientific experimentations.\n\nThe MAtrixware REsearch Collection (MAREC) is the first standardised patent data corpus for research purposes. It consists of 19 million patent documents in different languages, normalised to a highly specific XML format. The collection has been developed by Matrixware for the IRF.\n\nThe ClueWeb09 collection is a 25 terabyte dataset of about 1 billion web pages crawled in January and February, 2009. It has been created by the Language Technologies Institute at Carnegie Mellon University to support research on information retrieval and related human language technologies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24349609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24349609", "title": "International Institute of Cambodia", "text": "International Institute of Cambodia\n\nInternational Institute of Cambodia (IIC) was created in 1999. In 2007, IIC merged with the Asean University to become the Phnom Penh International University (PPIU). But in 2008, PPIU separated into two parts. One of them is still called the PPIU and the other became the IIC University of Technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9325398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9325398", "title": "International School of the Sacred Heart", "text": "International School of the Sacred Heart\n\nInternational School of the Sacred Heart (ISSH) is a Kindergarten (co-ed) – Grades 1–12 (all girls) school in Tokyo, Japan, founded in 1908. As part of the Network of Sacred Heart Schools it is affiliated with schools and institutions in 44 countries.\nThe International School of the Sacred Heart (ISSH) is a multicultural Catholic school. Kindergarten classes for 3, 4 and 5 year olds are for boys and girls, while grades 1–12 are for girls only. ISSH is located in Hiroo, Tokyo and was founded in 1908, belonging to a worldwide network of the Schools of the Sacred Heart.\n\nThe International School of the Sacred Heart in Tokyo is one of an international group of schools and colleges under the direction of the religious Society of the Sacred Heart.\n\nThe Society of the Sacred Heart was founded in Amiens, France, on November 21, 1800, by Saint Madeleine Sophie Barat to meet the needs of a particular form of education for girls in a changing world.\n\nBeginning in 2017, the school began investigating allegations of sexual abuse by a former teacher, which allegedly occurred in the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nThe curriculum is drawn from International curricula and provides programs such as the Advanced Placement and English as a second language (ESL).\n\nInstruction at the school is in English, Languages including French and Japanese are offered. The testing program includes the PSAT/National Merit Scholarship Qualifying Test, the SAT, and the International Schools Assessment.\n\nThe activities program includes athletics, drama, music, as well as competition in sports, intellectual and artistic fields, mainly in the Kanto Plains Association of Schools.\n\nThe curriculum in the Kindergarten and Junior School (KG/JS) includes an integrated balanced literacy language arts program, (reading, writing, speaking, and listening), mathematics, science and social studies that are integrated through the International Primary Curriculum.\n\nAll Middle School students study English, mathematics, science, social studies, art, drama, foreign languages, music, personal and social education, physical education, pottery, and values.\n\nSacred Heart has a Creative and Performing Arts department as well as an extracurricular program where students can participate in sports, music, and drama. The ISSH diploma is granted to students who have earned a minimum of 22 credits and have successfully fulfilled all of the requirements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5650818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5650818", "title": "Juwenalia", "text": "Juwenalia\n\nJuwenalia (Polish, from Latin \"Iuvenalia\" - \"Juvenalia\") is an annual higher education students' holiday in Poland, usually celebrated in May, before the summer exams, sometimes also at the beginning of June. The first Juwenalia were celebrated in the 15th century in Cracow. Juwenalia are celebrated in all colleges in Poland, with different names depending on a school or a city. At Medical Academies, they are called \"Medykalia\", at Academies of Economy - \"Ekonomalia\". At the University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn, they are called \"Kortowiada\", at the University of Opole they are called \"Piastonalia\", at the Silesian University of Technology in Gliwice - \"Igry\", at the Gdansk University - \"Neptunalia\", at the University of Zielona Góra - \"Bachanalia\". \nJuwenalia start with a triumphant parade of colorfully dressed students. The participants march from a college's campus to city's main square, where in a symbolic gesture, the mayor of a city hands keys to the city's gates to the students. The three days are free from lectures and filled with concerts, parties, sports events as well as beer drinking. \n\n"}
{"id": "2058552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2058552", "title": "List of colleges and universities in Tehran", "text": "List of colleges and universities in Tehran\n\nTehran's major colleges and universities in alphabetic order are:\n"}
{"id": "2265238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265238", "title": "List of libraries in Hong Kong", "text": "List of libraries in Hong Kong\n\nThis is a list of libraries in Hong Kong.\n\nThe Hong Kong Public Library consists of 65 libraries organised by district.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4791520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4791520", "title": "Lula: The Sexy Empire", "text": "Lula: The Sexy Empire\n\nLula: The Sexy Empire (also known as Wet: The Sexy Empire) is a business simulation game for Windows and AmigaOS. The game revolves around building a multimillion-dollar pornography and erotica industry. Character designs were done by German comic artist Carsten Wieland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5079325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5079325", "title": "Marina Semyonova", "text": "Marina Semyonova\n\nMarina Timofeyevna Semyonova (, – 9 June 2010) was the first Soviet-trained prima ballerina. She was born in Saint-Petersburg. She was named a People's Artist of the USSR in 1975.\n\nThe first great dancer formed by Agrippina Vaganova, she graduated from the Vaganova School in 1925, which \"is registered in the annals of Soviet ballet as the year of the unprecedented triumph of Marina Semyonova\".\n\nShe worked in the Kirov Ballet until 1930 when Joseph Stalin had her and her husband Viktor Semyonov (they were namesakes) transferred to the Bolshoi Theatre in Moscow.\n\nThere she married Lev Karakhan (the civil marriage), an Old Bolshevik and Deputy Foreign Minister, best known as an advisor to Sun Yat-sen. He was purged in 1937.\n\nSemyonova was guest with the Paris Opéra Ballet in 1935 where she danced \"Giselle\" with Serge Lifar.\n\nShe received the Stalin Prize for 1941 and retired in 1952. After that, she became one of the most important teachers and répétiteurs of the Bolshoi Theatre. Natalia Bessmertnova, Marina Kondratieva, Nadezhda Pavlova, Nina Sorokina, Ludmila Semenyaka, Nina Timofeyeva and Nina Ananiashvili were among her adepts.\n\nSemyonova retired from her coaching duties at the age of 96. She is known for her friendship with young danseur Nikolay Tsiskaridze, who interviewed her on several occasions. She also has a daughter by elocutionist Vsevolod Aksyonov. In 2003, she won the Prix Benois de la Danse for lifetime achievement.\nIn 2008, the Bolshoi Theatre celebrated Semyonova's centenary. Semyonova died on 9 June 2010 in her home in Moscow, three days before her 102nd birthday.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36348059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36348059", "title": "National Gay Task Force v. Board of Education", "text": "National Gay Task Force v. Board of Education\n\nNational Gay Task Force v. Board of Education of the City of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, 729 F.2d 1270 (10th Cir. 1984), is a decision by the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit that upheld in part, and struck down in part, a law allowing schools to fire teachers for public homosexual conduct. It was the first federal appellate court decision to deny that sexual orientation is a suspect classification. It was affirmed by an equally divided vote in the United States Supreme Court.\n\nAn Oklahoma state law enacted in 1978 authorized schools to fire teachers for \"[engaging] in public homosexual conduct or activity\"; and \"[has] been rendered unfit, because of such conduct or activity, to hold a position as a teacher, student teacher or teachers' aide. \" The National Gay Task Force filed a facial, class-action challenge to this law on First and Fourteenth Amendment grounds.\n\nThe trial court rejected the legal challenges to the statute. On reaching the First Amendment issue, it read a \"material and substantial disruption\" test into the statute.\n\nThe Tenth Circuit affirmed in part and reversed in part the district court ruling. With respect to the provision allowing teachers to be fired for engaging in public homosexual activity, the Court rejected due process and equal protection challenges. It held that since the act imposed adverse consequences solely on the basis of public acts, \"the right of privacy, whatever its scope in regard to homosexual acts, is not implicated\". In weighing the equal protection challenge, the Court rejected the notion that sexual orientation is a suspect classification. It then rejected the equal protection challenge under rational basis review.\n\nOn weighing the First Amendment claim, the Court held that the conduct portion of \" § 6-103.15 is overbroad, is \"not readily subject to a narrowing construction by the state courts,\" and \"its deterrent effect on legitimate expression is both real and substantial.\"\", and the law regulated \"pure speech\" It held that \"[t]he First Amendment does not permit someone to be punished for advocating illegal conduct at some indefinite future time. It used the example of a teacher who went before the Oklahoma legislature or appeared on television to urge the repeal of the Oklahoma anti-sodomy statute would be \"advocating,\" \"promoting,\" and \"encouraging\" homosexual sodomy and creating a substantial risk that his or her speech would come to the attention of school children or school employees if he or she said, \"I think it is psychologically damaging for people with homosexual desires to suppress those desires. They should act on those desires and should be legally free to do so.\" It held that \"the statute by its plain terms is not easily susceptible of a narrowing construction\" because \"[t]he Oklahoma legislature chose the word \"advocacy\" despite the Supreme Court's interpretation of that word in \"Brandenburg\" [\"v. Ohio\"] \" And it held that \"the deterrent effect of § 6-103.15 is both real and substantial. It applies to all teachers, substitute teachers, and teachers aides in Oklahoma\" Thus, the Court concluded that the statute was \"unconstitutionally overbroad\".\n\nIn dealing with the provision that a teacher had to be found unfit before public homosexual conduct can be a basis for termination, it noted that \"many adverse effects are not material and substantial disruptions. The statute does not require that the teacher's public utterance occur in the classroom. Any public statement that would come to the attention of school children, their parents, or school employees that might lead someone to object to the teacher's social and political views would seem to justify a finding that the statement \"may adversely affect\" students or school employees. The statute does not specify the weight to be given to any of the factors listed. An adverse effect is apparently not even a prerequisite to a finding of unfitness\"\n\nJudge Barrett dissented, arguing that \"[s]odomy is \"malum in se\"; \"i.e.\", immoral and corruptible in its nature without regard to the fact of its being noticed or punished by the law of the state\", and that \"[a]ny teacher who advocates, solicits, encourages or promotes the practice of sodomy\" in a manner that creates a substantial risk that such conduct will come to the attention of school children or school employees \"is in fact and in truth inciting school children to participate in the abominable and detestable crime against nature.\"\n\nThe defendants petitioned for a writ of certiorari, and the United States Supreme Court granted cert. It heard oral arguments on January 14, 1985, with Laurence Tribe representing the respondents. This was the first oral argument before the Supreme Court on any gay rights issue. In oral argument, Justice William Rehnquist noted that the statute had \"never been applied to a single living soul\", and Tribe countered that the law was a \"chilling\" and \"Draconian\" violation of speech, and the Court may reach the merits. The Supreme Court affirmed by an equally divided vote, 4-4, with Justice Lewis Powell abstaining.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42177466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42177466", "title": "National Socialist German Lecturers League", "text": "National Socialist German Lecturers League\n\nThe National Socialist German Lecturers League (\"Nationalsozialistischer Deutscher Dozentenbund\", also called \"NS-Dozentenbund\" , or abbreviated \"NSDDB\"), was a party organization under the NSDAP (the Nazi Party).\n\nThe NSDDB emerged in 1935 from the National Socialist Teachers League and was established on the basis of an order of the Deputy Führer Rudolf Hess; its purpose being, the exertion of influence on the universities and the political control of higher education. Massive influence was applied especially on appointments to staff positions. District leaders had a decisive role in the acceptance of an \"Habilitationsschrift\", which was a prerequisite to attaining the rank of \"Privatdozent\" necessary to becoming a university lecturer. The expulsion of the Jewish scientists from the universities was substantially carried out by the activists of the Lecturers League.\n\nIn 1938 about a quarter of the German higher education faculty was associated with the Lecturers League. The share of Lecturer League members was particularly high in the humanities faculties. The leadership ranks in the Lecturers League were strikingly often members (or graduates) of the medical faculty.\n\nLike all Nazi organizations, the NSDDB was set up according to the \"leadership principle\". From the emergence of the institution until June 1944, the \"Reich Lecturers Leader\" was the surgeon, Walter \"Bubi\" Schultze. For misconduct to the detriment of a party member he was relieved of his office in 1944 by the Nazi Party Court and replaced by \"Reich Students Leader\", Gustav Adolf Scheel. Scheel was likewise a physician.\n\nSchultze made clear how he intended to carry out his authority, after taking office in 1935. First, he caused all party members among the higher education teachers to register. For senior positions, he let it be known, it was not enough only to wear a party badge on the lapel, one must also be capable of \"forcing the opposition to the wall\". Besides the partisan feelings, the recognizable determination and talent to educate the youth in the National Socialist spirit, the \"race question\" should be above all a decisive factor in higher education. With his inauguration speech for the Reichsuniversität Straßburg, on November 1941, Schultze declared the highest aim of the college to be: \"to eradicate\" everything \"un-German\" from \"our people's world of thought\".\n\nTo anchor the national socialist ideology among the lecturers, four NS-Lecturer League scientific academies had already been set up. They were located at the Universities of Giessen, Göttingen, Kiel and Tübingen. The NSDDB's so-called \"training camp\" was a special kind of scientific education that was supposed to take the place of old-style conventions, and aimed at bringing the participants into line with the Nazi ideology.\n\nThe effectiveness of the Lecturers League was limited, for one thing, by the \"office-holder confusion\" typical of National Socialism: the imprecise differentiation of the jurisdiction and competence of a position. The NSDDB most frequently clashed with the Amt Rosenberg, which laid equal claim on higher education policy as its domain. Deputy-Führer Hess was an ally of the NSDDB in these conflicts.\n\nAnother factor limiting the effectiveness of the NSDDB was the often low regard for its leaders at the universities. Many had a reputation of wanting to compensate for their lack of scientific standing and expertise by means of excessive partisan zeal.\n\nMany educators and lecturers evaded the pressure to alter their work; so that overall, the League was largely ineffective. However, in the strongholds of Nazi teaching and research, such as Jena, Kiel and Königsburg, the League was more potent.\n\n\n,\n"}
{"id": "56695238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56695238", "title": "Neurolinguistic approach", "text": "Neurolinguistic approach\n\nThe neurolinguistic approach is a pedagogical method used in acquiring/teaching second or foreign languages (abridged as L2/FL) in a school setting, singling out the ability to communicate, both orally and in writing. Originally, it was developed for the teaching of French, but there are now a variety of programs based on this approach for the teaching of several different languages. The most widely used program in Canada is that known as \"Intensive French\" (IF).\n\nThe NLA was developed in Canada by Claude Germain, of the Département de didactique des langues at the Université du Québec à Montréal, and Joan Netten, of the Faculty of Education at Memorial University of Newfoundland, in the context of the growing influence of emerging educational neurosciences. It draws principally from the research carried out by Michel Paradis (1994, 2004, 2009) of McGill University and by the Institut des sciences cognitives, Université du Québec à Montréal (UQAM), as well as by research conducted by Nick C. Ellis (Centre for Complex systems, University of Michigan). It is also influenced by Vygotsky’s concepts of social interaction (1997).\n\nThe NLA is characterised by the need to ensure the independent development, in a classroom setting, of both components of any effective communication: an implicit competence, or the ability to spontaneously use a L2/FL orally, and explicit knowledge, or the awareness of the way a language functions, its grammatical rules and its vocabulary. This dimension of the NLA is based on Paradis (1994, 2004) and Nick C. Ellis (2011). Paradis’s research makes a clear distinction between explicit knowledge, which is the conscious knowledge surrounding a L2/FL and which is learnt through noticing and explanations, and implicit competence, which can only be acquired non-consciously by using the language in authentic communicative situations.\n\nIn NLA, implicit competence is referred to as internal grammar. This internal grammar is formed of a network of neuronal connections formed in the brain by the frequent use of the same pathways or circuits; these are NOT rules, but a linguistic structure’s frequent statistical patterns (Paradis, 2004; Ellis, 2011). Furthermore, explicit knowledge is referred to in the NLA as external grammar. Paradis’s research shows that explicit knowledge (external grammar) is sustained by the declarative memory, while implicit competence (internal grammar), which is a skill, is sustained by the procedural memory (Germain et Netten, 2013a). According to Paradis, there is no direct connection between these two components. While external grammar is taught relatively effectively in the classroom, the same cannot be said of internal grammar. This is why conventional L2/FL teaching programs, generally based on current methods or approaches, cannot lead most students to acquire spontaneous communication in the language being taught. This is true even of programs which claim to use a communicative approach but which, despite its creators’ theoretical bases, first teach explicit knowledge (grammar rules or knowledge generally founded on written language) before the acquisition of implicit competence, which belongs to oral language (Germain et Netten, 2005, 2013b, Germain, 2017). It should be noted that Paradis’s views have been challenged in some quarters; however, the co-conceptors of the NLA find them to be the most accurate/satisfactory descriptors of the SL acquisition/learning process.\n\nThe NLA is based on five fundamental principles developed by Germain and Netten (2011, 2012a; Netten and Germain, 2012) to create the necessary classroom conditions for students to first learn spontaneous oral communication in their L2/FL, before moving on to explicit knowledge of the language in reading and writing activities (Germain et Netten 2013b; Germain, 2017).\n\nIn order to create a classroom atmosphere where a limited number of linguistic structures are used and reused often enough to ensure that patterns, or neuronal connections, are developed in the students’ procedural memory, each teaching unit introduces three or four communicative functions which are related both to each other and to the unit’s theme. Each function is presented and used individually in several different situations allowing for brief personal conversations between the students. At the end of the unit, the functions are combined to permit more complex discussions on the subject. Thus, oral language is learnt in a conversational context. The importance of the context in permitting an effective transfer to other situations has been confirmed in Segalowitz’s recent work in cognitive neuroscience, in particular his concept of Transfer Appropriate Processing (TAP) (Segalowitz, 2010).\n\nLiteracy is usually understood as the ability to use a language to interpret and understand the environment. A literacy-based perspective allows the teacher to consider the acquisition of a language as the development of skills rather than of knowledge. This also means prioritising the development of oral skills, a view confirmed by recent research in neurodidactic science (Huc and Smith, 2008) which calls for the development of verbal communication before reading and writing. Texts used during the reading portion of the class, as well as the topics for written work, are based on the same theme and involve using the same structures first developed verbally. Reading and writing are taught directly in the L2/FL without recourse to translation. The strategies used are similar to those used for developing literacy when teaching the students their first language, but must be modified. For instance, a greater emphasis may be placed on oral preparation before reading and writing, which is essential when developing literacy in a L2/FL, given that the students’ internal grammar is considerably more limited than that of those who are learning to read and write in their first language (Germain et Netten, 2005, 2012, 2013b, Germain, 2017). A literacy-based approach also allows for external grammar to be brought into play after the language has been used orally and in context (observing grammatical details in the reading text and using these observed cases when writing paragraphs).\n\nIn order for students to acquire an internal grammar, the focus must be on the message rather than on the language, as internal grammar can only be acquired unconsciously that is, without consciously paying attention to the language’s features (Paradis, 1994, 2004, 2009). To facilitate the creation of significant situations and interesting, cognitively challenging tasks for the students, the content of the teaching units is organised sequentially, going from a few mini projects to a final project. The suggested activities are therefore not isolated and require the students’ active participation, which calls on other cerebral mechanisms that are essential to successfully acquiring a language (Paradis, 2004). This type of organisation also allows each unit’s language structures to be used and reused, while allowing the teacher to help students to learn by gradually increasing the difficulty of both tasks and language structures.\n\nThe ability to communicate spontaneously develops only through authentic communication. It cannot be learnt through controlled exercises or by memorising dialogues (R. Ellis, 1997) where the language thus learned is focused, foremost, on linguistic forms and is stored in the declarative memory. This type of activity does not permit the student to use the same structures sufficiently often to develop the patterns required to create implicit competence, or internal grammar, unconsciously. Moreover, only authentic communication calls on other cerebral mechanisms that are necessary for acquisition to happen, such as those linked to motivation (Paradis, 2004). In the NLA, all classroom communication is authentic: the teacher does not ask unrealistic questions and the students’ answers are always personal. Communication always takes place in the L2/FL.\n\nInteraction between students in the L2/FL is an essential ingredient for developing internal grammar and the ability to communicate spontaneously. To facilitate such interactions, the NLA applies five steps to teaching oral communication, throughout the teaching units, as well as encouraging activities carried out in pairs or in small-groups. On the linguistic level, the way is prepared for students to use the structures they require to accomplish the assigned tasks, but the interactions are authentic in that the students express their own thoughts. There are also three other specific teaching strategies recommended in using the NLA: fluency, accuracy, and purposeful listening. The students must reply in complete sentences when learning new language structures, in order to facilitate the building of their internal grammar and the ease with which they use the L2/FL. For internal grammar, accuracy is achieved by consistent and instant oral correction of errors and having the student reuse the correct structure orally. Essentially, in developing internal grammar, oral correction of errors replaces the teaching of grammar rules. Purposeful listening, meanwhile, replaces the usual oral comprehension exercises; it is a matter of encouraging learners to constantly listen to what the teacher and the other learners say\" (Germain, 2017, p. 89). The NLA uses eight strategies for learning/teaching both reading and writing.\n\nCurrently (2018), there are several implementations of the NLA, notably the Intensive French (IF) program in Canada and a French language training program at a Chinese university. The Canadian IF, which is geared to 5th and 6th grade students (11/12 years old) and continues to the end of high school, was launched in the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador in 1998. Since then, it has spread to almost all Canadian provinces and territories (the French-majority province of Québec has an intensive English program which, as it is not based on NLA principles, is similar but not identical to IF). Over 70,000 students have participated in the first year of the IF program in Canada since its inception. In China, the program is aimed at young adults (median age of 19) and was launched at the South China Normal University (Guangzhou) in 2010. It has attracted much interest from other Chinese institutions (including a high school) as well as in Japan (Gal Bailly, 2011; Ricordel, 2012), Taiwan, Iran, Belgium and France (Germain, 2017).\n\nThese programs were developed under the direction of the NLA’s co-developers. At this time, other implementations of the NLA are being developed in Canada by other professionals in order to teach certain First Nations languages in Yukon and the Northwest Territories, as well as in Saskatchewan, Prince Edward Island, the James Bay region of Québec for the teaching of English, French and Cree, and the teaching of Mohawk, French and English to the Mohawk Nation which extends through the southern part of Ontario and Quebec and northern New York state. Programs in Spanish and Mandarin are also implemented in the Calgary Public School Board. Any curricular resource that conforms to NLA principles can be adapted to teach communication skills in any L2/FL, as suggested by a recent trial of teaching/learning Spanish among francophone Quebeckers in a university setting (specifically, at UQÀM, the Université du Québec à Montréal).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15797500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15797500", "title": "Nicolas Chopin", "text": "Nicolas Chopin\n\nNicolas Chopin (in ; 15 April 17713 May 1844) was a teacher of French language in Prussian- and Russian-ruled Poland, and father of Polish composer Frédéric Chopin.\n\nNicolas Chopin was born in the village of Marainville-sur-Madon (Vosges department), in the province of Lorraine, France. He was the son of François Chopin (9 November 1738, Ambacourt – 31 January 1814, Marainville), a wheelwright and village administrator for Marainville, and Marguerite, \"née\" Deflin (1 February 1736, Diarville – 21 August 1794, Marainville), an educator respected by her colleagues and students. François and Marguerite were married on 17 January 1769.\n\nNicolas had four sisters, only two of whom survived to adulthood: Anne (b. 23 November 1769, Marainville), who married Joseph Thomas on 13 February 1798, and Marguerite (5 August 1775, Marainville – 10 March 1845), who married Nicolas Bastien on 2 December 1798. Nicolas' godmother was his aunt Thérèse Lhumbert \"née\" Chopin, the half-sister of his father François.\n\nNicolas graduated from the gymnasium at Tantimont, a nearby advanced secondary school dedicated to training youth for the teaching profession and the priesthood. As village administrator, François Chopin was acquainted with Adam Jan Weydlich, the Polish-born estate administrator for Count Michał Jan Pac. Weydlich took an interest in the education of young Nicolas, teaching him the rudiments of the Polish language, while Weydlich's wife—a Parisian, Françoise-Nicole \"née\" Schelling—taught him French and German literature, music, etiquette, calligraphy, and accounting.\n\nIn late 1787, after the death of Count Pac, Weydlich returned to Poland with his family, and he offered sixteen-year-old Nicolas the chance to come with him. Weydlich became the supervisor of a tobacco company (\"Manufaktura Tytoniowa w Warszawie\") founded in 1777 by Jan Dekert, , and . Nicolas worked at the factory, 1787–89, probably as an accounting clerk. Nicolas and the Weydlich family lived with Adam's brother, Franciszek Weydlich, in tenements of the Holy Cross Church on Krakowskie Przedmieście.\n\nNicolas stayed there until 1792, working as Adam's personal assistant and possibly tutoring his children: Henryka (b. 1777) and Mikołaj (b. 1783). His friends from this period included Jakub Benik (24 July 1772 Dobre Miasto, Warmia – 20 January 1827 Warsaw) and Jan Austen (early 1774 Wilkie, Warmia – 6 May 1828 Warsaw), a professor at the Elementary School of Artillery and Engineering (\"Szkoła Elementarna Artylerii i Inżynierów\") for the Army of the Duchy of Warsaw. There is one extant letter written by Nicolas to his parents during this time; in the letter, he explains that he does not want to return to France due to the French Revolution and the likelihood that he would be conscripted into the army.\n\nThe year 1792 saw the Second Partition of Poland, and the tobacco factory was closed down. From 1792-1794, he resided in Szafarnia (Dobrzyń county) with Jan Dziewanowski as tutor and teacher to his son Jan Nepomucen Dziewanowski, , who later became the godfather to Nicolas' daughter, Ludwika . During the 1794 outbreak of the Kościuszko Uprising, Nicolas joined the Warsaw municipal militia, rising to the rank of lieutenant. After a year he was wounded, just as the uprising was collapsing.\n\nFinding himself again unemployed, he was soon engaged at Czerniewo, in Mazowsze Province, as tutor to the Łączyński family (one of whose daughters, Maria, after later marrying Anastazy Walewski, would gain fame as mistress to Napoleon Bonaparte). Nicolas spent some six years with them. Central and Eastern Europe was then flooded with refugees from areas affected by revolution, and many of them found the same kind of employment as Nicolas. On Polish lands it became fashionable for even modestly well-to-do nobility to have a French aristocrat in their homes. Nicolas was not \"well-born,\" so his position bespoke the substantial education and social graces that he had acquired during his previous seven years among his adoptive Polish compatriots.\n\nNicolas spent the next several years at Żelazowa Wola with Countess Ludwika Skarbek and her family (relatives of the Łączyńskis), tutoring the four children. On 2 June 1806, he married a poor relative of the Skarbeks who lived with them and ran the household, Tekla Justyna Krzyżanowska (daughter of Jakub Krzyżanowski and Antonina, \"née\"' Kołomińska, of Długie in Włocławek County). Justyna's brother would be the father of Włodzimierz Krzyżanowski, later a Union general in the American Civil War.\n\nA year later their first daughter was born, \"Ludwika\" (Louise), and they moved to a larger house on the estate.\n\nIn 1810 their only son Fryderyk was born. His godfather was Fryderyk Skarbek, who had been tutored by Nicolas Chopin.\n\nCount Skarbek had fallen into debt and fled the Duchy of Warsaw, leaving his wife and four children. At their age they no longer required a tutor, so it was clear the Countess would no longer be able to employ the Chopins. Probably Nicolas had been thinking of moving to Warsaw even before the birth of his son Fryderyk.\n\nIn July that year, Nicolas and Justyna and their children moved to Warsaw, to the Saxon Palace, which housed the Warsaw Lyceum where he would teach French language. In October 1810, Nicolas was appointed \"collaborator\" (\"kollaborant\") and, in June 1814, regular professor of French language at the Lyceum. He held this post until the lyceum's closure in 1833.\n\nApart from these positions, in 1812 he was appointed professor of French language at an Elementary Artillery and Engineers School (\"Szkoła Elementarna Artylerii i Inżynierów\"), and in 1820 at a Military Training School (\"Szkoła Aplikacyjna Wojskowa\"), where he was active until the school was closed down in 1831.\n\nIn 1833, with the reorganization of the educational system following the November 1830 Uprising, Chopin was to have received a position at a planned Pedagogical Institute. While awaiting the new appointment, he received half-wages and evaluated French-teacher candidates and French works proposed for use in public schools. In 1837, when the Institute failed to materialize, Chopin retired. Nevertheless, he continued on the Examining Committee till 1841. In addition, for a brief period in 1837, he was lecturer in French language at the Roman Catholic Clerical Academy (\"Akademia Duchowna\") in Warsaw.\n\nNicolas Chopin died of tuberculosis in Warsaw on 3 May 1844, aged seventy-three. He is interred with his wife at Powązki Cemetery.\n\nOn 2 June 1806, Chopin married Justyna \"née\" Krzyżanowska. The couple had four children: Ludwika, born 1807, who married Józef Jędrzejewicz; their only son, Fryderyk Franciszek, born 1810, a pianist and composer best known as Frédéric Chopin; Izabela, born 9 July 1811, who married Antoni Barciński; and Emilia, born in 1812, who died of tuberculosis in 1827, aged fourteen.\n\nIn 1829 Ambroży Mieroszewski painted oil portraits of Mikołaj (Nicolas) Chopin and Justyna Chopin (died October 1861, aged 81) and their surviving children: Fryderyk (the earliest known portrait of him, and one of the most convincing); Fryderyk's older sister Ludwika; and his younger sister Izabela. (That same year, Mieroszewski also painted Fryderyk's first professional piano teacher, Wojciech Żywny.\n\nFryderyk's first cousin Włodzimierz Krzyżanowski (1824–87) — the son of Fryderyk's mother's brother — became a Union Army brigadier general in the American Civil War.\n\nNicolas Chopin was, according to Wincenty Łopaciński, a man of great intelligence and culture, universally esteemed, a model teacher, and solicitous of his brilliant son Frédéric. Though he had come from a foreign country, with time he became completely Polonized and \"undoubtedly considered himself a Pole.\" This was borne out by his willingness to fight for Poland's independence in the Kościuszko Uprising, after he had earlier refused to return to revolutionary France for fear of being conscripted into the French army.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10550174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10550174", "title": "Observer's Books", "text": "Observer's Books\n\nThe Observer's Books were a series of small, pocket-sized books, published by Frederick Warne & Co in the United Kingdom from 1937 to 2003. They covered a variety of topics including hobbies, art, history and wildlife. The aim of these books was to interest the observer and they have also been popular amongst children. Some of them have become collector's items. For the dedicated collector this could be a lifetime's work as there are over 800 variations, some of which are now rare. The values of the books can vary from 50 pence to hundreds of pounds. \n\nThe books were produced with paper dust covers up until 1969. Each one had a unique pattern of squiggly lines at the top but these were not especially practical because they were easy to rip and stain. From 1970, the covers were protected with a glossy coating. These types are often referred to as \"Glossies\". From the late 1970s, Warne decided to laminate the covers to the actual books to make them sturdier and more resistant to wear.\n\nThe first Observer's guide was published in 1937, and was on the subject of British birds. This is now rare, and a mint copy with a dust cover is worth hundreds of pounds. The same year, Warne published a second Observer's book on British wild flowers. A mint copy of this book is worth around £220. When the popularity of these was recognized, several more titles were added 'uniform in the series', but during World War II production was limited due to paper and labour shortages. Even so, by 1941 Warne had published the first six Observer's books.\n\nIn 1942 a special edition book was brought out on \"airplanes\" . This book had no number in the series, as it was brought out to help people spot enemy warplanes. It was reprinted in 1943 and 1945. \n\nThe first few Observer's titles had focused on nature, but gradually subjects like geology, music and architecture were introduced. 'Spotter' titles like \"Aircraft\", \"Automobiles\" and \"Railway Locomotives\" proved popular. During the 1950s and 60s collecting sets of these books was popular among children and adults alike. \n\nWhen Warne was acquired by Penguin books in 1983, Warne brought out new editions of the Observer's books. These were slightly bigger than the original books, and were in paperback, not hardback. The same year Penguin, with permission of Warne, started printing their own, more up-to-date Observer's books. These again were slightly larger than the originals, but were hardbacks. Like the later original Observer's books, the dust covers were laminated to the actual book. There were two types of the Penguin Observer's books: Bloomsbury Observer's, and Claremont Observer's, (of which there were only 12 different editions).\n\nAfter a hiatus of 17 years, Peregrine Books published the appropriately titled \"Observer's Book of Observer's Books\" in 1999, in a format that matched the original editions and was numbered 99 so as to follow on from the last 'official' title. As the title implies, it is a guide to the series with details of its history, authors, and print-runs. As a sign of the series' popularity, this potentially obscure book has been reprinted no fewer than six times. More recently the series has been rounded up to 100 with the publication of \"Wayside and Woodland\" in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "11080315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11080315", "title": "OpenCourseWare", "text": "OpenCourseWare\n\nOpenCourseWare (OCW) are course lessons created at universities and published for free via the Internet. OCW projects first appeared in the late 1990s, and after gaining traction in Europe and then the United States have become a worldwide means of delivering educational content.\n\nThe OpenCourseWare movement started in 1999 when the University of Tübingen in Germany published videos of lectures online for its \"timms\" initiative (Tübinger Internet Multimedia Server). The OCW movement only took off, however, with the launch of MIT OpenCourseWare at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the Open Learning Initiative at Carnegie Mellon University in October 2002. The movement was soon reinforced by the launch of similar projects at Yale, Utah State University, the University of Michigan, and the University of California Berkeley.\n\nMIT's reasoning behind OCW was to \"enhance human learning worldwide by the availability of a web of knowledge\". MIT also stated that it would allow students (including, but not limited to, its own) to become better prepared for classes so that they may be more engaged during a class. Since then, a number of universities have created OCW, some of which have been funded by the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation.\n\nAccording to the website of the OCW Consortium, an OCW project:\n\nTen years after the US debut of OCW, in 2012 MIT and Harvard University announced the formation of edX, a massive open online course (MOOC) platform to offer online university-level courses in a wide range of disciplines to a worldwide audience at no charge. This new initiative was based on MIT's \"MITx\" project, announced in 2011, and extends the concepts of OCW by offering more structured formal courses to online students, including in some cases the possibility of earning academic credit or certificates based on supervised examinations. A major new feature of the edX platform is the ability for students to interact with each other and with teachers in online forums. In some cases, students will help evaluate each other's work, and may even participate in some of the teaching online.\n\nIn addition, edX is being used as an experimental research platform to support and evaluate a variety of other new concepts in online learning.\n\nA problem is that the creation and maintenance of comprehensive OCW requires substantial initial and ongoing investments of human labor. Effective translation into other languages and cultural contexts requires even more investment by knowledgeable personnel. This is one of the reasons why English is still the dominant language, and fewer open courseware options are available in other languages. The OCW platform SlideWiki addresses these issues through a crowdsourcing approach.\n\n\n\n\nThis listing is roughly in the order of adoption of OCW principles.\n\nThe following are not directly affiliated with a specific university:\n\nOpenCourseWare, originally initiated by MIT and the Hewlett Foundation, came to China in September, 2003, when MIT and the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) joined together with Beijing Jiaotong University to organize an OpenCourseWare conference in Beijing. As a result of this conference, petitioned the government to institute a program of OpenCourseWare in China. This group included some of the most prestigious universities in China, as well as the Central Radio and Television University, which is China’s central open university, with more than students.\n\nAs a result of this petition, the Chinese government instituted the CORE (China Open Resources for Education) to promote the OpenCourseWare in Chinese Universities, with Fun-Den Wang (the head of IETF) as chairman. The CORE is an NGO supported by Hewlett Foundation, Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) and other foundations. According to CORE's website, it has nearly 100 Chinese universities as members, including the most prestigious universities in China, such as Tsinghua University, Peking University and Shanghai Jiaotong University. This organization organized volunteers to translate foreign OpenCourseWare, mainly MIT OpenCourseWare into Chinese and to promote the application of OpenCourseWare in Chinese universities. In February 2008, 347 courses had been translated into Chinese and 245 of them were used by 200 professors in courses involving a total of 8,000 students. It also tried to translate some Chinese courses into English, but the number is not too much and some are only title translated. There have also been produced 148 comparative studies comparing MIT curriculum with Chinese curriculum using the MIT OpenCourseWare material. CORE's offices are hosted within the China Central Radio and Television University, and they receive partial funding from the IETF and the Hewlett foundation. They also host annual conferences on open education, and the 2008 conference was co-located with the international OpenCourseWare Consortium conference, which brought a large amount of foreign participants. The website has been offline since 2013.\n\nBut before the OpenCourseWare conference in Beijing and the establishment of CORE, at April 8, 2003, the Ministry of Education had published a policy to launch the China Quality Course (精品课程) program. This program accepts applications for university lecturers that wish to put their courses online, and gives grants of between per course that is put online, and made available free of charge to the general public (ibid.). The most prestigious award is for the “national level CQOCW”, then there is “provincial level” and “school level”. From 2003 to 2010, there have produced 3862 courses at the national level by 746 universities. According to the official website for the China Quality Course, the total number of the courses available online is more than 20,000. These typically include syllabus, course notes, overheads, assignments, and in many cases audio or video of the entire lectures. The scale of this project has also spurred a large research activity, and over 3,000 journal articles have been written in Chinese about the topic of OpenCourseWare.\n\nThe UNESCO Institute for Information Technologies in Education (IITE) has been promoting Open Educational Resources (OER) in China.\n\nCul-studies.com provides culture studies and teaching in China under a Creative commons license run by Contemporary Culture Studies (CCCS) of the Shanghai University.\n\nGuoxue is working on the digitization and promotion of ancient Chinese books.\n\nThe National Science Library Institutional Repository contains journals and conference proceedings.\n\nThe Social Learn Lab Community contains creative commons materials. Its wiki is very inactive.\n\nThe Songshuhui Community promotes science in china under the creative commons.\n\nThe Chinese journal of lung cancer is published under a creative commons license.\n\nChina Quality Course is a program launched by the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China since April 8, 2003. \nThe website allows for ranking of courses. From 2003 to 2010, 3862 courses had been produced at the national level by 746 universities. According to the official website for the China Quality Course, the total number of courses available online is more than 20,000.\nIt lists no license or copyright on the website.\n\nUniversity of Malaya (UM) is the foremost and premier Research University (RU) in Malaysia. It is a multidisciplinary RU that has more than 27,000 students and 1700 academic staff with 17 faculties and research centres that covers the whole spectrum of learning from the Arts, Sciences and Humanities. The university's beginning at the Kuala Lumpur campus dates back to 1959 and thus far has a huge alumni of over 100,000, among them renowned and illustrious personalities and leaders in various fields. http://www.oeconsortium.org/members/view/427/\n\nThe Virtual University (Urdu:ورچوئل یونیورسٹی; Vu), is a public university located in urban area of Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan. Its additional campus is also located in residential area of Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.\n\nEstablished in 2002 by the Government of Pakistan to promote distance education in modern information and communication sciences as its primary objectives, the university is noted for its online lectures and broadcasting rigorous programs regardless of their students' physical locations. The university offers undergraduate and post-graduate courses in business administration, economics, computer science, and information technology. Due to its heavy reliance on serving lectures through the internet, Pakistani students residing overseas in several other countries of the region are also enrolled in the University's programs.\n\nThe National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning (NPTEL) is a Government of India sponsored collaborative educational programme. By developing curriculum-based video and web courses the programme aims to enhance the quality of engineering education in India. It is being jointly carried out by 7 IITs and IISc Bangalore and is funded by the Ministry of Human Resources Development of the Government of India.\n\nFlexilearn is a very useful open course portal. It was initiated by Indira Gandhi National Open University, and apart from providing free course materials, flexilearn also provides opportunities to enroll oneself for a course and appear for exam conducted by university and thereby get certification.\n\nOpenCourseWare originally initiated by MIT and the Hewlett Foundation, was introduced and adopted in Japan.\n\nIn 2002, researchers from the National Institute of Multimedia Education (NIME) and Tokyo Institute of Technology (Tokyo Tech) studied the MIT OpenCourseWare, leading them to develop an OCW pilot plan with 50 courses at Tokyo Institute of Technology in September. Later, in July 2004, MIT gave a lecture about MIT OpenCourseWare at Tokyo Tech that prompted the first meeting of the Japan OCW Alliance. The meeting was held with four Japanese universities that had mainly been recruited through the efforts of MIT professor Miyagawa, and his personal contacts. In one case, the connection was the former president of the University of Tokyo being an acquaintance of Charles Vest, the former president of MIT.\n\nIn 2006, the OCW International Conference was held at Kyoto University wherein the Japanese OCW Association was reorganized into the Japan OCW Consortium. At that time, Japan OCW Consortium had over 600 courses; currently they have 18 university members, including the United Nations University (JOCW, n.d.). On Japanese university campuses there are few experts in content production, which makes it difficult to get support locally, and many of the universities have had to outsource their production of OCW. In example, the University of Tokyo has had to mainly employ students to create OCW.\n\nThe motivation for joining the OCW movement seems to be to create positive change among Japanese universities, including modernizing presentation style among lecturers, as well as sharing learning material. Japanese researchers have been particularly interested in the technical aspects of OCW, for example in creating semantic search engines. There is currently a growing interest for Open Educational Resources (OER) among Japanese universities, and more universities are expected to join the consortium.\n\n“In order to become an integral institution that contributes to OER, the JOCW Consortium needs to forge solidarity among the member universities and build a rational for OER on its own, different from that of MIT, which would support the international deployment of Japanese universities and also Japanese style e-Learning.”\n\nThe \"Maktabkhooneh ()\" is an online educational platform in Iran which provides free online courses from universities in Iran. The motto of the Maktab-Khooneh is \"Making Accessible Excellent High Quality Education For Every Iranian for Free\". Maktabkhooneh partners with Iran's top universities, mostly Sharif University of Technology, University of Tehran, Amirkabir University of Technology, Tehran University of Medical Sciences and so on. There is more than 200 courses available on Maktabkhooneh for free.\n\nLed by the National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan started organizing several open course plans, the main organization is named Taiwan open course consortium (kanji:台灣開放式課程聯盟). The plan attracted the National Taiwan University, National Chengchi University, National Taiwan Normal University, and others into the development of project.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the United Arab Emirates, a discussion, led by Dr. Linzi J. Kemp, American University of Sharjah, has begun about sharing teaching and learning materials (‘open course ware’) through a community of educators and practitioners in the GCC. There is growing availability of high quality and free open access materials shared between universities e.g. MIT (USA). Resource sharing also takes place on the ‘Open University (UK), OpenLearn’ platform. Kemp (2013) proposes that teaching and learning will be enhanced when teachers across institutions of higher education work together to bring their shared knowledge into classrooms. Furthermore, when the platform is opened up to include practitioners - e.g. employers - then the relationship with the industry will further ensure that the teaching and learning is available and beneficial for a wider community.\n\n"}
{"id": "10722721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10722721", "title": "Operational flight trainer", "text": "Operational flight trainer\n\nOperational Flight Trainer (OFT) is a training device, often a flight simulator, intended for general flight training as opposed to specialist tactics and weapons training. An OFT often has a motion platform in order to enable realistic instrument flying (IF) and other procedural training. OFT is a term used particularly by the US Military. A related term is Operational Flight and Tactics Trainer (OFTT), a device more capable than an OFT and designed for tactics training as well.\n"}
{"id": "1099734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1099734", "title": "Postgraduate Applications Centre", "text": "Postgraduate Applications Centre\n\nPostgraduate Applications Centre (PAC) is an organisation that processes applications for large number of postgraduate courses in the Republic of Ireland.\n\nInstitutions which currently accept applications through PAC are Dublin City University, University College Cork, Waterford Institute of Technology, NUI Maynooth, Galway-Mayo Institute of Technology, Cork Institute of Technology, Institute of Technology, Carlow and NUI Galway. The Centre also processes applications for inter-institute qualifications, such as the Professional Diploma in Education, and qualifications in Public Health Nursing and Midwifery.\n\nThe centre was founded in 1998 as a separate company by the National University of Ireland to simplify the processing of postgraduate applications, initially to the Diploma in Education and expanding to include various institutes of higher education in the state.\n\nThe Centre is a non-profit organisation which is funded entirely by application fees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21317927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21317927", "title": "Roland De Wolk", "text": "Roland De Wolk\n\nRoland De Wolk (born 1953) is an American print and television journalist from the San Francisco Bay Area. His career has spanned four decades. He contributed to \"Oakland Tribune\" coverage of the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake that won a 1990 Pulitzer Prize. He has won multiple awards for his journalism, including a lifetime achievement award. He has been described as \"a star journalist\" and \"an ace reporter.\"\n\nDe Wolk spent the first half of his four-decade career at publications such as the Oakland Tribune and San Francisco Chronicle. He also wrote for publications such as the New York Times and Chicago Tribune as well as the Paris Metro (now defunct). In 1995 he co-wrote a travel guidebook for the San Francisco area called \"Our Town\". After the near shutdown of the \"Oakland Tribune\" in 1991 and observing changes in the media landscape in the early years of the Internet, De Wolk moved into television and online journalism.\n\nDe Wolk moved to television journalism and worked at KTVU from 1991 until his termination in 2013. While at KTVU, he won multiple awards for his investigative journalism.\n\nHe was a contributing reporter/producer for the Chauncey Bailey Project, which covered the murder case of the well known Bay Area journalist and editor-in-chief of the \"Oakland Post\".\n\nSince 1993 he has been a lecturer and adjunct professor of journalism at San Francisco State University’s Journalism Department, where he taught online journalism as well as news writing, reporting, feature reporting and investigative reporting. Working with Professor Emeritus Leonard Sellers, De Wolk assisted in founding SFSU's Online Journalism Program, which started NewsPort.org. In 2001 he wrote one of the earliest college textbooks on online journalism, \"Introduction to Online Journalism: Publishing News and Information \"(2000).\n\nDe Wolk won a Society of Professional Journalists Career Achievement Award, four James Madison Freedom of Information Awards from SPJ, and the Edward R. Murrow Award for Investigative Journalism.\n\nHe was part of the 16-member \"Oakland Tribune\" team that was awarded a 1990 Pulitzer Prize for its spot news photography coverage of the World Series earthquake in 1989.\n\nDe Wolk and Leslie Griffith won a Casey Award from the Journalism Center on Children & Families at the University of Maryland for their 1998 KTVU investigative news story called \"Candy Kids\", about the exploitation of children in violation of labor laws in selling candy. The citation called it a \"provocative report on a subject rarely examined. It showed true enterprise and initiative and followed up with additional reporting. It provided the children’s perspective looking at a story that affects minority children not only in this community but elsewhere.\"\n\nHe was an investigative journalist in a collaborative, multimedia storytelling project, called \"The Price of Prosperity\", which was produced in partnership between KTVU, the San Francisco Chronicle, SFGate.com and Bayinsider.com. The project received a grant award from the Pew Center for Public Journalism in 2001.\n\nDe Wolk won a James Madison Award in 2008 for digging into public records about the Metropolitan Transportation Commission's loss of income from drivers who obstruct the collection of fees for using its FasTrak system on bridges.\n\nIn July 2013, De Wolk was employed as a producer with KTVU-TV, when the station's news team broadcast false and racially insensitive names of pilots involved in the July 2013 Asiana airplane crash at San Francisco International Airport. Anchor Tori Campbell read all four fake names on air. The names had reportedly been emailed to De Wolk by a trusted source, and he forwarded them to the newsroom with the warning \"you'd better check these out.\" The names were confirmed by the National Transportation Safety Board before they were aired; the NTSB later apologized and said the mistaken confirmation had been given by a summer intern \"acting outside the scope of his authority\". Three other producers were fired by KTVU after the incident. De Wolk retained legal counsel and took action against KTVU. The station quickly settled, issuing a statement that De Wolk and KTVU had \"reached an amicable agreement;\" details were not released.\n\nEarlier in 2013, Electronic Frontier Foundation technologist Micah Lee claimed that De Wolk interviewed him for KTVU on the subject of doxing and its free speech implications, but inserted quotes from that interview in a story that aired on the subject of swatting, which Lee says was not discussed during the interview. The story was routinely removed from KTVU's website as were all such stories on KTVU servers as company policy for server space. The Executive Producer issued a statement to the EFF stating that after reviewing the raw tapes of the interview the station \"unequivocally stands by its story.\" \n\n\nDe Wolk is a graduate of UC Berkeley, and lives in the San Francisco Bay Area with his wife, \"San Francisco Chronicle\" political reporter Carla Marinucci, and two sons.\n\n"}
{"id": "28057473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28057473", "title": "S. Kalyanaraman", "text": "S. Kalyanaraman\n\nS. Kalyanaraman (2 June 1930 – 9 January 1994), popularly known as SKR, was a vocalist in the Carnatic tradition. Hailing from a famed musical family - his great-grandfather was Komal Muthu Bhagavathar and his grand uncle was the celebrated vocalist Madirimangalam Natesa Iyer - S.Kalyanaraman became one of the foremost disciples of G. N. Balasubramaniam and established himself as an original musician in his own right.\n\nBorn in the ancient city of Thiruvengadu at his mother's residence near Mayavaram to N. Srinivasa Iyer, S.Kalyanaraman was born in a well-to-do musical family and received his initial music training under his father. Recognizing the boy's prodigious talents, his father realized that Kalyanaraman needed expert guidance from a respected musician. At that time, the reigning superstar of Carnatic music was none other than G. N. Balasubramaniam or better known as GNB. Indeed, Kalyanaraman sang in the GNB bani even before becoming the disciple of his idol. In Chennai, a music teacher better known as Kittamani Iyer identified the boy's talents & upon realizing the impact of GNB's style on the boy's music, he introduced the young Kalyanaraman to GNB. Upon realizing the boy's immense potential, GNB took him under his wings and trained him for 15 years.\n\nLike his master GNB, S. Kalyanaraman's musical acumen is beyond the ordinary and within less than a year of instruction under GNB, he was providing him vocal support. GNB once remarked \"What's there for me to teach, you are already singing so well\".\n\nSo versatile was his voice that even before his debut in 1949, Kalyanaraman was already getting attention from the audience as a leading vocal accompanist to GNB. At times, realizing the rich manodharama of Kalyanaraman's musical intuition, GNB would hand him the reins for improvisations in his own concerts. The brief moments of Kalyanaraman's music captivated the audience who came to listen to GNB.\n\nAt his debut in the Gokhale Hall in 1949, guru GNB was in the audience and was carried away in musical wonder for Kalyanaraman's originality while retaining the mesmerizing bani of his own. GNB further added, \"The best respect to a guru is to follow his style in total. The best tribute to a guru is to embellish a style of your own. My dear boy... I am proud you are... indeed your own.\" Once while listening to Kalyanaraman's rendition of Nilayam Onru Enukku Arulvai, a Suddhananda Bharathi composition, GNB walked up to Kalyanaraman and demanded, \"Teach me this and give me the notation.\" So vast was his musical acumen and knowledge that G.B. Duraiswamy (the eldest of GNB sons) used to remark: “The way he discussed intellectual queries and doubts with GNB was a treat to watch.\"\nFrom then on, S. Kalyanaraman's rise in Carnatic music was phenomenal. Like his guru, he emphasized artistic individuality and won acclaim as a great artiste in his own right. His musical acumen transcended Carnatic music and when performing with Hindustani musicians, he would sing aptly with the Hindustani touch when rendering Hindustani ragas. Such was his admiration of Indian music, that he saw more similarities than differences between Carnatic and Hindustani systems. He would go on to explain the gamaka technique in Carnatic music which most Hindustani musicians criticize as being detrimental to shruthi clarity. His climb to the 'A' Top rank in All-India-Radio (AIR) was meteoric. In his later years, Kalyanaraman gave some whistle concerts whistling away compositions of the Trinity, an art that he learnt with passion.\n\nAs a soloist he planned his concert items differently, often singing rare compositions while keeping popular numbers to a minimum, specializing in vivadi (dissonant) ragas rarely attempted by most popular musicians of his time and full of musical complexities. He became a specialist in the handling of vivadi ragas and popularized the Śruti bhedam technique (modal shift of tonic note) introduced by his guru. He used nadais (transposed rhythmic patterns) extensively and unfortunately to the uninformed audience, his concerts are painstakingly challenging to be understood and interpreted. His renditions of vivadi ragas like Chandrajyothi, Sucharitra, Hamasanadam are well loved by the connoisseur and the informed audience for the musical weight Kalyanaraman's genius had given. The buzz word that went around was \"if it was easy, Kalyanaraman would not do it\".\n\nHowever, Kalyanaraman didn't completely ignore the legacy of his guru to forge that of his own. He popularized the GNB bani (style) of singing and also immortalized his guru's hallmark ragas like Shanmukhapriya, Kalyani (raga), Dheerasankarabharanam, Kapi Narayani and many more. He gave Hindustani touches to Hindustani ragas like Dwijawanthi, Brindavana Saranga and Hamir Kalyani. Such was his voice that it had an almost perfect substitute to the inimitable voice of GNB and while singing his guru's signature compositions it would often confuse the acute listener whether it was GNB or Kalyanaraman singing.\n\nHe notated a book, the first volume of GNB compositions with Trichur V. Ramachandran, which was released by the GNB Foundation.\n\nAs a musical innovator he faced much criticism in his time for creating new ragas such as the dwi-madhyama ragas in which he eschewed the panchama of the first 36 mela ragas substituting it with the prathi-madhyama. Apart from theoretically creating a new set of 36 ragas, he demonstrated them at a lecture held in the Music Academy in 1993. He was also ridiculed by critics that he would only handle the \"rare stuff\" of Carnatic music. But nothing bothered his style and preference. He also composed several varnams, krithis (some in ashtaragamalika format) and thillanas in both popular and vivadi ragas and like his guru, he refrained from using a mudra.\n\nHe was a strict teacher and expected nothing less than devotion to the art from his students. As such many of his students, unable to understand his teaching methods, left him. He would also take a back seat and analyze his teaching methods whether anything went wrong in his teaching. Noted among his disciples are his wife Bhushany Kalyanaraman, Prof. Gowri Kuppuswamy, Brinda Venkataramanan and the popular cine playback singer Anuradha Sriram.\n\nAbove all, he emphasized a lot on shruthi clarity which he felt Carnatic musicians lacked unlike their Hindustani counterparts. He formulated and tested methods to improve shruthi clarity in Carnatic musicians as well as some of his innovative teaching methods. He planned for the release of a book of all his findings, but it was never published.\n\nKalyanaraman's influence undeniably bore the GNB mudra. Though criticized many a times for his unique and misunderstood musical prowess, his renditions and contributions are finally gaining popularity among the younger generation as well as recognition. Held in high regard by most of his senior contemporaries like T. N. Seshagopalan, Dr. M. Balamuralikrishna, M. S. Gopalakrishnan and Lalgudi Jayaraman, Kalyanaraman's contribution to the world of Carnatic music is noteworthy.\n\nThe SKR Trust, established by his wife and student Smt Bhushan Kalyanaraman promotes his music and his legacy. A documentary of his life and work was released by Kalakendra Sanskriti Series \"The Sunaadha Vinodhan\" in an audio visual DVD format.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8380806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8380806", "title": "Skateboard Park Tycoon", "text": "Skateboard Park Tycoon\n\nSkateboard Park Tycoon is a business simulation game for Windows.\n\nTycoon Mode\n\nThe aim of the game is to generate money. The player does this by building a skate park and attracting skaters. Once the park reaches a certain rating, They can get a sponsor. The sponsor will pay the park a certain amount of money per day and also unlocks new buildings.\n\nMonkey See Monkey Do\n\nThe monkey does a trick and you do it after him.\n\nInstant Action\n\nThe same as Tycoon mode, but the player can choose the level and the starting money. This mode does not help to finish the game.\n"}
{"id": "27371057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27371057", "title": "Society for Dance Research", "text": "Society for Dance Research\n\nThe Society for Dance Research is a scholarly society based in the United Kingdom. The society sponsors a peer-reviewed journal called \"Dance Research\" that publishes two issues per year.\n"}
{"id": "38869740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38869740", "title": "Tbilisi Spiritual Seminary", "text": "Tbilisi Spiritual Seminary\n\nTbilisi Spiritual Seminary (, ) is a spiritual training institution, which operated from 1817 to 1919 in the Georgian Exarchate of the Russian Orthodox church. When Joseph Stalin was sixteen in 1895, he received a scholarship. The language of instruction was Russian, and the Georgian language was disparaged by the Russian priests who taught there. Stalin was a voracious reader in both languages. He became a Georgian cultural nationalist. He anonymously published poetry in Georgian in the local press and engaged in student politics. Although his performance had been good, he was expelled in 1899 after missing his final exams.\n\nIn 1993 it reopened as a higher educational institution of the Georgian Orthodox Church.\n"}
{"id": "36602096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36602096", "title": "TeachEngineering", "text": "TeachEngineering\n\nTeachEngineering.org is a digital library of more than 1,500 K-12 engineering curricular items such as lessons, hands-on activities and maker challenges. The items feature problem-solving, project-based learning, design and systems thinking, and developing engineering habits of mind.\n\nTeachEngineering’s curricular items are aligned to K-12 science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) academic standards such as the Next Generation Science Standards, Common Core Math standards and the International Technology and Engineering Educators Association standards. Curricular items have learning objectives, engineering connections, background information, key terms and definitions, learning assessment suggestions, troubleshooting tips, estimated time/cost, and printable worksheets and handouts. Most curriculum uses common, inexpensive supplies found at grocery and hardware stores.\n\nMost of the items in the TeachEngineering collection were developed at engineering colleges across the U.S., and all were tested in K-12 classrooms and vetted through a peer and quality review process.\n\nThe National Science Foundation (NSF) initially funded the creation of the TeachEngineering library through its National Science Digital Library (NSDL) program. University engineering faculty, graduate students and K-12 teachers from the University of Colorado Boulder, Colorado School of Mines, Duke University and Tufts University who had independently developed K-12 engineering curriculum, bundled their curricular products into a single, standardized and searchable digital library. By 2017, more than 50 institutions had contributed curriculum. Faculty and students at Oregon State University designed and developed the supporting information system. In 2015, the system was re-designed and rebuilt at the University of Colorado Boulder. About 3 million unique users visit the library annually. \n\n<br>\nTeachEngineering usage closely tracks the US K-12 school seasons. As one can see from the figure above, daily demand follows a strict weekly cycle with usage consistently lowest on Saturdays. Usage starts to increase on Sundays when teachers prepare for classes for the coming week and further increases through Wednesdays. On Thursdays and Fridays demand decreases back toward the Saturday low. On a larger cycle, usage typically increases from the start of the school year (in August) to a peak in late March (around spring break), after which it starts trending down toward the summer vacation. Holidays such as the Fourth of July, and Thanksgiving also clearly stand out in this one-year long trajectory of daily use.\n\nThe initial motivation to create the library was the desire to preserve and widely share the outcomes from NSF’s investment in K-12 engineering curriculum development through the creation of a single standardized, searchable and standards-aligned platform. Ongoing motivations include:\n\nDuring 2003-15, TeachEngineering ran on a LAMP stack hosted at Oregon State University’s Open Source Lab (OSL). In 2015, the system was reimplemented on a Windows/IIS/RavenDB/C# stack and is currently hosted on Microsoft Azure and maintained by the University of Colorado, Boulder.\n"}
{"id": "1517408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1517408", "title": "University of Zambia", "text": "University of Zambia\n\nThe University of Zambia (UNZA) is a public university located in Lusaka, Zambia. It is Zambia's largest learning institution. UNZA was established in 1965 and officially opened to the public on 12 July 1966. It is also the oldest public university in Zambia. The language of instruction is English.\n\nThe beginnings of UNZA can be traced back to before the Second World War when the idea to establish a University in Northern Rhodesia was conceived. However, plans were halted when the war broke out and only revived after. The colonial government instituted plans to set up a Central African University College, for Africa, due to the development of higher education institutions in most parts of Africa.\n\nThe Central Africa council (CAC) appointed a committee to investigate requirements for a college for higher education and, it subsequently recommended that a college for higher education be established. A subsequent investigation into the need for higher education for Africans in Central Africa was conducted by Sir Alexander Carr-Saunders in 1952, with a follow up report submitted in March 1953. The Southern Rhodesia Government accepted the establishment of a multi-racial University College and the commission consequently recommended that an institution be established in Salisbury. However, a minority report written by Alexander Kerr, provided a counter argument suggesting that the establishment of a higher education institution on the basis of equality between races was not feasible and thus recommended that a university for non-Europeans be established in Lusaka.\n\nThe political climate, as a result of the independence struggle, in the late 1950s and early 1960s made the idea of an all-inclusive University College of Rhodesia less attractive. As a result, plans to solicit support for the establishment of a higher education institution in Lusaka were initiated. In March 1963, the new Northern Rhodesia Government appointed a commission, the Lockwood Commission, led by Sir John Lockwood to assess the feasibility of setting up a university for Northern Rhodesia. The commission placed a lot of emphasis on autonomy and thus recommended the establishment of a university with no ties with already established universities in Britain. The report also recommended the establishment of the University of Zambia as a full-fledged university from the onset.\n\nA Provisional Council of the University of Zambia was put in place after enactment of the University of Zambia Act, 1965. In July 1965, Douglas G. Anglin was appointed Vice Chancellor and, in October 1965, President Kenneth David Kaunda gave the assent of Act no 66 of the 1965 act. \n\nThe University of Zambia was inaugurated on 13 July 1966 following the appointment of President Kenneth David Kaunda as the first Vice Chancellor on 12 July 1966.\n\nIts main campus, the Great East Road Campus, is on the Great East Road, about 7 km from Lusaka City. It also has the Ridgeway Campus within Lusaka City located at the University Teaching Hospital; this campus houses students pursuing medical and pharmacological courses.\n\nThe University of Zambia has over 157 degree and postgraduate degree programmes. The University of Zambia is divided into the following faculties:\n\nSchool of Agricultural Sciences\n\n\nSchool of Engineering\n\n\nSchool of Education\n\n\nSchool of Humanities and Social Sciences\n\n\nSchool of Law\n\n\nSchool of Mines\n\n\nSchool of Medicine\n\n\nSchool of Natural Sciences\n\n\nSchool of Veterinary Medicine\n\n\nGraduate School of Business\n\n\nUNZA is a member of the Association of African Universities, the Association of Commonwealth Universities, and the International Association of Universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "31614367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31614367", "title": "Values (heritage)", "text": "Values (heritage)\n\nThe values embodied in cultural heritage are identified in order to assess significance, prioritize resources, and inform conservation decision-making. It is recognised that values may compete and change over time, and that heritage may have different meanings for different stakeholders.\n\nAlois Riegl is credited with developing Ruskin's concept of 'voicefulness' into a systematic categorization of the different values of a monument. In his 1908 essay \"Der moderne Denkmalkultus\" (The modern cult of monuments) he describes historical value, artistic value, age value, commemorative value, use value, and newness value. Riegl demonstrates that some of these values conflict and argues that they may be culturally contingent.\n\nThe UNESCO World Heritage Convention addresses cultural sites of outstanding universal value, from a historical, aesthetic, scientific, ethnological or anthropological perspective, and highlights the need for authenticity. Discussed in the 1964 Venice Charter, values and the question 'why conserve?' are the focus of the 1979 Burra Charter (last revised 1999). Cultural significance is said to be 'embodied' in the fabric, setting, use, associations, and meanings of a place, and includes aesthetic, historic, scientific, social and spiritual values for past, present and future generations. In order to preserve such values a 'cautious approach' of minimum intervention is advocated.\n\nSignificance assessment typically includes consideration of the rarity, representativeness, and communicative power of assets and their values. These are then managed in order to sustain and valorize that significance. Engagement with the economic value of heritage may help promote its preservation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34220378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34220378", "title": "William Snelling Hadaway", "text": "William Snelling Hadaway\n\nWilliam Snelling Hadaway (1872–1941) was an American artist who worked in Madras, India. He specialized in book illustration and in jewelry and metal design. He trained in Massachusetts in the 1890s \"at the Museum of Fine Arts, under C. Howard Walker and Miss Elizabeth Child.\" He belonged to the Boston Art Students' Association. After school \"he spent two years studying in Sicily and Italy.\" Beginning in 1907 he worked in India for the Madras School of Arts; he stayed until 1927. He developed an expertise in Indian visual arts and published several works on the subject. His papers reside in the Victoria and Albert Museum.\n\nWilliam Snelling Hadaway was born in Malden, Massachusetts in 1872, son of Ephraim Locke Hadaway (1848–1914) and Helen Agnes Noyes Hadaway (1848–1935). He told his younger daughter that his first job was in a hardware shop where he \"learnt the flashpoints of oils\".\n\nIn 1893, aged 21, he married Julia Peck (1864–1937), and applied on 30 December 1893 in New York for a passport for himself and wife. They left for Italy on 4 January 1894. On 22 December 1894 he applied for an\nemergency passport in the US Embassy in Rome, in joint names, saying he was temporarily residing in Naples. He then returned to the US on this passport, without Julia, on 26 June 1895. Julia is listed as returning to New York on 2 September 1895 aboard the \"Werra\" from Verona. They divorced shortly afterwards.\n\nJulia subsequently pursued a career as an artist under the name Julia Peck Hadaway. She is listed in the 1910 Census as living in Suffolk, Mass., divorced, aged 46. She specialised in Italian and local scenes; a Venetian canal scene (oil on canvas, 20 ½ x 11 ½ ) was for sale in 1992 in the Barridoff Galleries, Portland, Maine. She died suddenly, in Italy, in 1937.\n\nOn his return William enrolled in art school in New York where he met Jean Louise Carré (1865–1939), who had arrived in New York from Nova Scotia in September 1894 describing herself as a \"tourist\". She was French Canadian, her father had originally come from Guernsey, her mother had died in childbirth (hers) and her father 2 ½ years later. She was brought up by an uncle and his family in Pictou, Nova Scotia, and had an uncle in Guernsey.\n\nThey left the US together in October 1897, travelling to London as man and wife on the passport originally intended for Julia (fortunately the names were similar). They married 1904, in St Pancras, when their first two children (Jean Carré, known as Jack, 1898-c.1955, and Lesley Anne, 1899-1985) were aged 6 and 5. Their third child Hilary Stella Mary Snelling was born in 1905 and died in 1995.\n\nWilliam forged a highly successful artistic career in London, working as a designer, silversmith and teacher. Jean was also a jeweller and drawer of fashion designs, and sometimes they worked together. They moved to Bushey in 1902 or 3 where William studied with Hubert von Herkomer.\n\nIn 1907 William was offered the post of Superintendent of the Madras Government School of Arts, which he held to 1927. Under his regime the students made jewellery, furniture and other artefacts. William also wrote monographs on cotton printing in the Madras presidency and Indian metalwork, copies of which may be found in the Victoria and Albert\nMuseum.\n\nAn insight into his character is to be found in an anecdote told in The Hindu of May 6, 2009. Sculptor Mani Nagappa is talking about his father Rao Bahadur M.S. Nagappa's life. His father became William Hadaway's assistant at\nthe School after an unconventional job interview. As Mani Nagappa tells it: \"It was mid-term at the Madras School of Arts when my father MS Nagappa wanted to join the institution as a student. The watchman would not let him in. My father hung around and drew a picture of the watchman, when he was sound asleep. When the principal Hadaway was leaving in his car,\nmy father threw the sheet in. The Britisher [sic] was impressed with the sketch and appointed my father his assistant\".\n\nWhen an unidentified epidemic involving swelling broke out in Madras in the early 1900s the British government asked Hadaway to commission a painting of a victim to assist with diagnosis. Hadaway gave Nagappa the job, and he did a painting based on a cast of a dead victim. The painting was apparently of use to the medical team back in London.\n\nThey stayed in India until 1934, when they returned to the UK via New Zealand. They retired to Roquebrun on the French Riviera. Jean\ndied in 1939; William visited the US that year for the first time in 42 years. He died in 1941, trapped in Vichy France by the war.\n\n\n\n"}
