{"id": "45315667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45315667", "title": "Administrative discretion", "text": "Administrative discretion\n\nIn public administration, administrative discretion refers to the flexible exercising of judgment and decision making allowed to public administrators. Regulatory agencies have the power to exercise this type of discretion in their day-to-day activities, and there have been cases where regulatory agencies have abused this power. Administrative law can help these agencies get on the path of following regulations, serve the public, and in turn, a reflection of the public's values and beliefs.\n\nThere's a need for administrative discretion because the public’s interest could be at risk if several agencies were not following laws and regulations. Administrative discretion is important because without it, it could lead to arbitrary and unreasonable use of such discretion, which may lead to destruction of basic principles of administrative law. Although this type of discretion isn't laid out in the job-description of a bureaucrat/public servant, it is necessary because citizens use these bureaucratic institutions every day; such as the D.M.V. , public schooling, and numerous others. Street-level bureaucrats have to deal with the provision of service as well as translating vaguely worded mandates into specific cohesive and comprehensive language to organize protocol.\n\nAdministrative discretion allows agencies to use professional expertise and judgment when making decisions or performing official duties, as opposed to only adhering to strict regulations or statuses. For example, a public official has administrative discretion when he or she has the freedom to make a choice among potential courses of action. The failure to exercise reasonable judgment or discretion is abuse of discretion.\n\n\"I think that in our system of government, where law ends, tyranny need not begin. Where law ends, discretion begins, and the exercise of discretion may mean either beneficence or tyranny, either justice or injustice, either reasonableness or arbitrariness.\"—Kenneth Culp Davis\n\nThe idea of administrative discretion dates back as far as the time of widely known Greek philosopher Socrates in his quest to lay the foundation for philosophical ethics. Socrates determined a general ranking of \"universal morals\" in order to piece together certain criterion that could test what course of action to take in any immediate situation. He assigned value orders as well as certain \"means to ends\" that would determine alternatives for ethical philosophical generalization. In doing so, Socrates was creating the first type of basis for administrative discretion. \n\nWhen Andrew Jackson took office in 1829, the country was going through radical changes—the scale of government grew extensively which caused the need for an increase in the administrative activity. Jackson brought the bureaucratization of administration. He appointed his close friends to office to work in administered processes. This was known as the \"spoils system\", in which was a system was in place where presidential administrations had the power of hiring or firing federal workers; this brought a constant change in demands and routines for personnel. Of his additions to the administrative discretion and of bureaucracy as we know it today, one in particular, the creation of The Patent Reform Act of 1836 brought about the creation of new offices and adjudicatory administrative boards. Although, perhaps unknowingly, Jackson brought a new age to administrative discretion. Another president who has come in contact with administrative discretion is Madison. Known as Madison's Managers, drafted in 1787, some argue that early public administration literature had it right.\n\nAfter Jackson, many presidents followed suit of his example—appointing members to administrative processes. In some cases, officials appointed by the presidents abused their powers in administration. There were attempts to control administrative discretion throughout the 19th century, but those attempts overall, failed. Political appointees believed they indeed were law themselves—Jesse Hoyt and his successor Samuel Swartwout for example, notoriously did not comply with the rule to return funds they had collected on behalf of the Federal Government. However, within the 20th century, substantial changes occurred that better formed the concept of administrative discretion as we know it today.\n\nFranklin Roosevelt’s New Deal brought much needed relief to the public by implementing welfare programs in a dire time of crisis. There was a type of bureaucratic \"sprawl\": this era saw the creation of numerous agencies and boards. The birth of such a large bureaucracy, not only helped in aiding the public, but Roosevelt’s programs also answered important question of who would be part of the bureaucracy and govern future welfare programs. The New Deal emphasized the importance of administrative discretion in government and their processes by expanding the staff of the White House and creating new managerial techniques for the executive.\n\nThe Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 was created to govern the internal procedures of administrative agencies and how those agencies interact with the public. The act came about after the Attorney General appointed a committee to investigate the need for procedural reform. The notion of the time (not too far off-base of popular public notion today) was that various agencies were created by Congress over a long period of time in a piece-mail, haphazard manner. The view was that there was no uniformity in the chaotic bodies to administer anything. The 1946 act places policies on agencies’ rule-making, adjudications, and licensing behavior. The intention was to make sure that the public is protected and safe, with secured proper entitlements.\n\n\"Goldberg v. Kelly\"—In this 1970 case, City officials were administrating and terminating public assistance benefits under the federally assisted program of Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) and/or under New York State’s Home Relief Program in New York City. The problem arose as residents receiving financial aid claimed that the New York City officials overseeing and administering these programs terminated their aid without notifying them or holding a hearing. Recipients alleged that this was unconstitutional on the Administration's part because it denying them due process of law guaranteed under the Due Process Clause in the Fourteenth Amendment (Case Briefs). In this case, Administrative Discretion resulted in individualized parameters of what was deemed necessary to convey a termination of aid, instead of a federal standard. The Holding of Chief Justice Warren Burger and the court sided with the appellants' view: a full hearing of evidence is required before a recipient can be denied/deprived of certain types of government benefits. In other words, a recipient must receive some sort of notice should their aid be changed/terminated; whether in writing or orally.\n\n\"Industrial Union Department v. American Petroleum Institute--\"In this 1980, Under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (or OSHA), The Secretary of Labor was required to explicitly state exposure risks/limits at the lowest level of carcinogens that won't impair viability of the industries regulated. However, this failed to happen. The Secretary did not say or record anywhere that exposure to the substance benzene at 10 ppm (parts per million) would cause leukemia and exposure to 1 ppm would not (Oyez cases). The holding of the Supreme Court, under Justice Warren Burger, concluded that there was a statute for a requirement of significant risk, and the Secretary and agency had failed to uphold the statue of workers' health at risks. In this case, Administrative Discretion under the Secretary of Labor had not understood the \"extent feasible\" .\n\n\"Citizens To Preserve Overton Park, Inc. v Volpe--\"In this 1971 case, in Memphis, Tennessee, a group of citizens claimed that The Secretary of Transportation made the decision to have construction of a highway where Overton Park was located and violated statutes enacted by the congress. The court holding under justice Burger upheld the \"feasible and prudent\" clause: wherein an alternative exists to circumvent building the proposed highway through the park. Furthermore, the Secretary's decision to use federal money for the highway did not comply with the Department of Transportation Act of 1966.\n\n\"The IRS Tea Party Controversy\": The IRS must exercise discretion in administering the tax law. The IRS oversees a vast system that affects nearly everyone. Since the law is complex and often difficult to interpret, the IRS must draw fine lines in order to properly interpret, apply, and enforce the law. The IRS claims it gave extra scrutiny to Tea Party-affiliated groups based solely on the name and goals of the groups. The IRS asked those groups invasive questions that were not normally asked of other groups: about their donor lists, affiliations and contacts with the media .\n\nAdministrative Discretion in Criminal Law Enforcement\"--\" When a government official of law enforcement uses their own sense of ethical discretion such as not to or to invoke in criminal process. There are two major situational motivations of police discretion; whether police response is internally invoked or citizen initiated and whether it is a law enforcement of order maintenance situation. The two situational motivations combine to create four types of discretionary situations for law enforcement officials. The four different situations are proactive and reactive law enforcement and proactive and reactive order maintenance.\n\nIn today’s administrative discretion, some issues affect the way organizations function and the way the public feels towards administrations/agencies as a whole. In this way public administrators are seen as \"moral agents\"; they are given the task to exercise discretion, and reflect the society’s values. In theory, the public expects administrators to be the exemplary role models of society and follow laws and regulations. In reality, some do not think the administrators play fair and the public feels distrusts towards them. In a poll done by Gallup.com, the public showed an increase in the mistrust in government. People were asked if corruption was widespread throughout the government. The results recorded from 2006 to 2013 rose significantly; from 56% to 79%. The public may know little to nothing about the administration or their responsibilities, yet approval is very low. Some attribute this mistrust to a lack of transparency, where corruption can occur. The lack of transparency can mean that an administration is not completely honest, secretly keeping hidden agendas: withholding information from public view. It can also simply mean that the administration does not attempt to make their information easy to access or understand for the public.\n\n"}
{"id": "764174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=764174", "title": "Arthur Nielsen", "text": "Arthur Nielsen\n\nArthur Charles Nielsen Sr. (September 5, 1897June 1, 1980) was an American businessman, electrical engineer and market research analyst who founded the ACNielsen company, a market research company.\n\nArthur Charles Nielsen was born in Chicago, Illinois. He was of Danish descent. Nielsen was educated at University of Wisconsin (now University of Wisconsin–Madison), where he received a B.S., summa cum laude in 1918. He was a member of Tau Beta Pi (engineering honor society), the Sigma Phi Society and a captain of the varsity tennis team from 1916 to 1918. He subsequently served in U.S. Naval Reserve.\n\nNielsen worked as an electrical engineer for the Isko Company in Chicago from 1919 to 1920 and for the H. P. Gould Company in Chicago from 1920 to 1923. He founded the ACNielsen company in 1923, and in doing so advanced the new field of market research. This involved: (1.) test marketing new products to determine their viability prior to costly mass marketing and production; and (2.) measuring product sales at a random sample of stores to determine market share. Careful statistical sampling was crucial to this process. The techniques developed by Nielsen were especially important for the efficient operation of a market prior to the introduction of computerized digital networks that in the 1990s enabled continuous and comprehensive monitoring of sales by product retailers. Nielsen was also a pioneer in developing methods of measuring the audience of radio and television broadcasting programs, most notably the Nielsen ratings.\n\nNielsen inaugurated a National Radio Index for broadcasters and advertisers in 1942, followed by a television ratings service in 1950. By the time of his death, the company's revenue was US$398 million annually.\n\nWith his son Arthur Nielsen Jr. he won the U.S. Father and Son doubles tennis titles in 1946 and 1948. He was elected to the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1971 for his contributions to the sport. The University of Wisconsin awarded him an honorary Doctor of Science (ScD) in 1974. Nielsen was appointed a Knight of the Order of the Dannebrog, \"Ridder af Dannebrog\" (1961) by the government of Denmark.\n\nNielsen and his wife Gertrude (d.1998) donated the Nielsen Tennis Stadium to the University of Wisconsin–Madison. In 1990, the A.C. Nielsen family made a donation to UW-Madison to create a full-time MBA program specializing in market research. It is the only full-time market research program in the United States. A small tennis center in Winnetka, Illinois, is named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25374660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25374660", "title": "Bashar Masri", "text": "Bashar Masri\n\nBashar Masri (// February 4, 1961) is a Palestinian American entrepreneur and successful business man, he is the founder and Chairman of the Board of Massar International, since its establishment in 1994. He is the founder and visionary behind the high-tech \"Rawabi City\", Palestine's first planned city, he is also the founder and currently the managing director of Bayti Real Estate Investment Company that built the city. He founded and manages the first Palestinian equity fund, a 90 million investment initiative known as \"Siraj Fund\". He's on the list of the \"Top Ten Richest People of Palestine in 2016\" with net worth estimated at 1.5 Billion Dollars.\n\nMasri was born in Nablus, Palestine and raised there. After leaving Nablus, Masri continued his education first in Egypt then moved to the United States, Virginia where he Graduated from Virginia Polytechnic University with a B.S. in Chemical Engineering in 1983. He worked in a number of countries before he decided to return to Palestine and settle there in the mid-1994, among them the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the United States of America and the United Kingdom. and with a background in management consulting and industrial management.\n\nOn a regional level, Masri has spearheaded large and economically significant investment projects, including affordable housing communities in Morocco, commercial and residential developments in Jordan, and a residential real estate project in Egypt. Massar Company under Masri's management currently has multiple businesses in Morocco, Jordan, Egypt and Serbia.\n\nMasri is the father of two daughters: Tamara Masri and Dina Masri.\n\nAfter Masri came back from Washington DC to Palestine in Mid-1990s to establish himself in his home country, he started by founding Palestinians daily newspaper \"Al-Ayyam Newspaper (/Arabic: جريدة الأيام/)\" and was its publisher. Al Ayyam is today the second largest newspaper in Palestine.\n\nIn 1994, Masri founded and now is the Chairman of the board of Massar International, since the establishment of Massar, he has been one of the most prominent figures promoting private sector development and growth in Palestine.He has dedicated his life to establishing, investing, transforming, networking, training and building what is now a widely known group of businesses bridging Palestine to global technologies, knowledge, know-how and industry best practices. In the past decade, he has launched businesses in financial services, real estate, media and communications, retail businesses, agribusiness and information technology.\n\nAccording to Massar International's website, these companies are either owned by Massar International or Massar International has invested in them:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNot only was Masri the visionary and founder of Rawabi City, he also oversees the construction and development of the city. Rawabi City is a high-tech planned city, the first of its kind in Palestine, and it was funded fully by the private sector, Rawabi is considered the largest private sector investment is Palestine's history, the construction of the city so far has cost 1.4 billion dollars. Rawabi is being constructed by Bayti Real Estate Investment Company that is jointly owned by Qatari Diar Real Estate Investment Company and Massar International. With its more than 6,000 housing units built to serve families from multiple demographics, state-of-the-art infrastructure, and an emerging commercial hub, the city has already made a positive economic and social impact on Palestinians and it is constructed to provide housing for 25,000 person in its first stage and 40,000 people when it is done. Not only does the city provide affordable housing options it is also the second biggest generator of jobs, after the Palestinian Government, providing between 8,000 and 10,000 job opportunity a year for construction workers, in addition to thousands of job opportunities, whether in Massar International companies that moved there, or in the different shops and entertainment facilities the city provides.\n\nMasri aims for the City of Rawabi to be the Silicon Valley and the Tech Hub for the State of Palestine, in tireless attempts to provide spaces for promising technology and technology related startups at the city, and businesses from inside and outside of Palestine to the city.\n\nMasri founded and manages the first Palestinian equity fund, a 90 million investment initiative known as \"Siraj Fund\" in 2003, and the company's first fun \"Siraj Palestine Fund I\" was launched in February 2011, the company was founded for the sole purpose of managing investment funds in Palestine. The company focuses on promising startups and capital investments in small and medium sized enterprises in the sectors of information and communication technology services, energy, agriculture, clean technology, healthcare, logistics, education, manufacturing, transportation, construction and financial services. Siraj's investments in these companies range between $250,000 and $12 million, and plans on expanding in the MENA region in the future.\n\nMasri is the former Palestinian Chapter Chairman of the Young Presidents' Organization (YPO). He was named as a \"Global Leader of Tomorrow\" by the World Economic Forum. Masri serves on the Board of Directors of the Palestine Development and Investment Company (PADICO), and the Board of Trustees of An-Najah National University. Masri is a member of the Deans’ Council of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.\n\nFortune Magazine ranked Masri #38 on its list of \"The World's 50 Greatest Leaders\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44563821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44563821", "title": "Beni Sankar", "text": "Beni Sankar\n\nBeni Gopaul Sankar (born 25 September 1948) is a Guyanese businessman and former cricketer. He captained Essequibo in its only first-class match, in the final of the 1980–81 inter-county Jones Cup.\n\nSankar was born at Cornelia Ida, in what is now the Essequibo Islands-West Demerara region of Guyana, but was then considered to be part of the county of Demerara in British Guiana. He is thus the only Essequibo first-class cricketer born outside of Essequibo county. Sankar's father, Kayman Sankar, who died in February 2014, was an Indo-Guyanese rice magnate, who rose from a labourer to \"Guyana’s most successful rice farmer\". Beni Sankar studied at England's National College of Agricultural Engineering in Silsoe, Bedfordshire, graduating in 1974, and entered his father's employment, eventually becoming CEO of the Kayman Sankar Group. He was also a director of Demerara Distilleries and Demerara Bank, and in the late 2000s helped to establish Guyana's aquaculture industry, establishing 25 acres of fish ponds at his father's property in Hampton Court. Sankar has also served as president of Guyana's Private Sector Commission (from 1994 to 1996), president of Georgetown's Rotary Club, and chairman of the Caribbean Rice Association.\n\nOutside of business, Sankar has been keenly involved in Guyanese sport, holding a pilots' licence and serving as a president of the Guyana Table Tennis Association and as a vice-president of the Guyana Cricket Board. His first-class cricket career was brief, consisting only of a single match for Essequibo. The match was played against Berbice at the Kayman Sankar Cricket Ground, named for Sankar's father and located near his Hampton Court property. Sankar captained Essequibo, and, playing as a top-order batsman, scored two runs in the first innings and 20 runs in the second innings. He also bowled a single over of right-arm medium pace in Berbice's second innings, conceding four runs without taking a wicket. Berbice won the match by nine wickets in what was Essequibo's only first-class match – only the final of the three-team Jones Cup (later the Guystac Trophy) was accorded first-class status, and Essequibo made the final only once, having defeated Demerara in an earlier match. The scorecards of the non-first-class matches played by Essequibo are not available before the late 1990s, and it is therefore uncertain how Sankar played for Essequibo in other matches.\n"}
{"id": "49001977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49001977", "title": "Biotechnology Innovation Organization", "text": "Biotechnology Innovation Organization\n\nThe Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO) is the largest trade organization in the world that represents the biotechnology industry. On January 4, 2016 the Biotechnology Industry Organization changed its name to be the Biotechnology Innovation Organization.\n\nBIO holds a trade meeting each year in the United States, which are essential for the business development and partnering activities that are required in the biotechnology sector, in which it is expensive to develop products, timelines to develop products are long, and regulatory risks are high. In 2018 the BIO International Convention was held in Boston and was attended by 18,289 delegates from 49 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico and 67 countries. The event also held over 46,916 One-On-One Partnering Meetings, becoming a Guiness World Records, Record Holder for the \"Largest Business Partnering Event.\"\n\nIt also holds regional partnering meetings, for example in China, India, and Europe.\n\nIn 2013 it spent $1.98 million on lobbying in the United States. Issues included the amending the Internal Revenue Code to provide an exception from the passive loss rules for investments in high-technology research small business pass-through entities, to include vaccines against seasonal influenza within the definition of taxable vaccines, and to extend, expand, and improve the qualifying therapeutic discovery project program that first became law in 2010.\n\nExamples of its public lobbying efforts, include support for development of biofuels such as those produced from algae, genetically modified crops, strong intellectual property rights, and for a more efficient and predictable regulatory process for new food and drug products.\n\nIn June 2013 BIO partnered with the Coalition of Small Business Innovators to lobby the U.S. government to modernize the U.S. tax code \"to recognize and promote small business innovation as fundamental to the long-term growth of the U.S. economy\".\n\nIt is a member of The Alliance to Feed the Future, an umbrella network, the mission of which is to \"raise awareness and improve understanding of the benefits & necessity of modern food production and technology in order to meet global demand\".\n\nBIOs members include companies that make Pharmaceutical drugs, biofuels, industrial enzymes, and genetically modified crops. As of 2016, it represents 1,100 biotech companies in all 50 U.S. states, which employ 1.61 million Americans and support an additional 3.4 million jobs.\n\nBIO was founded 1993 in Washington, D.C. and Carl B. Feldbaum was the president from BIO's founding until he retired in 2004, and was succeeded by James C. Greenwood. As of 2018, John Maraganore, PhD., president and chief executive officer of Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc., was chairman and \nJames Greenwood was president and CEO.\n\nThe Biotechnology Heritage Award, presented annually at the Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO) Annual International Convention by the Biotechnology Innovation Organization (BIO) and the Science History Institute (formerly the Chemical Heritage Foundation), recognizes individuals who have made significant contributions to the development of biotechnology through discovery, innovation, and public understanding.\n\n"}
{"id": "36994079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36994079", "title": "Bulent Hass Dellal", "text": "Bulent Hass Dellal\n\nBülent Hass Dellal is a director and the chairman of the Special Broadcasting Service (SBS) in Australia.\n\nDellal was born in Melbourne, Australia, to Turkish Cypriot parents, and is the eldest of three children. His great-grandfather was the last Ottoman mufti of Cyprus. Dellal's early childhood was spent in Glenroy, where he attended primary school. Dellal spent his after school hours and weekends helping his father, Hasan, with the general store they owned in Glenroy. His father devoted his spare time towards assisting Turkish Cypriot immigrants who settled in Australia and helped form the Cyprus Turkish Association. He also founded the Cyprus Turkish Islamic Society, and was responsible for managing the construction of the Sunshine Mosque. Although the Turkish culture was a strong presence within his household, Dellal and his siblings found it difficult to speak the language, preferring instead to speak in English. His father decided to move the family to Turkey, so that the children would gain a stronger sense of their culture. In 1962, at the age of 10, Dellal's family sold their assets and moved to Ankara, Turkey but returned to Australia, in 1965, where he spent his secondary school years. Dellal studied at Merrilands Secondary College and then at the Melba Conservatory in Richmond. Once he finished his studies, he became a teacher at a Catholic girl's college. In 1989, Dellal became the founding executive of the Australian Multicultural Foundation (AMF). His efforts were recognised in 1997 when he was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia by Queen Elizabeth II for his support of multicultural affairs, the arts and the community. In 2003 he was awarded the Centenary of Federation Medal for his contribution to Australian society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "471274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471274", "title": "Cabin boy", "text": "Cabin boy\n\nA cabin boy or ship's boy is a boy (in the sense of low-ranking young male employee, not always a minor in the juridical sense) who waits on the officers and passengers of a ship, especially running errands for the captain.\nCabin boys were usually 13–16 years old, but sometimes as young as 8, and also helped the cook in the ship's kitchen and carried buckets of food from the ship's kitchen to the forecastle where the ordinary seamen ate. They would have to run from one end of the ship to the other carrying messages and become familiar with the sails, lines and ropes and the use of each in all sorts of weather. They would have to scramble up the rigging into the yards whenever the sails had to be trimmed. They would occasionally stand watch like other crewmen or act as helmsman in good weather, holding the wheel to keep the ship steady on her course.\n\nSeveral prominent British Royal Navy officers began their career as cabin boys. The list includes officers that achieved an admiralty rank before 1801. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "56977024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56977024", "title": "Carl Elsener Sr.", "text": "Carl Elsener Sr.\n\nCarl Elsener Sr. (also known as Charles Elsener, born 6 July 1922 in Ibach, † 1 June 2013 in Schwyz) was a Swiss entrepreneur.\n\nCarl Elsener was the grandson of Karl Elsener (1860-1918) and the son of Carl Elsener (1886-1950). Karl Elsener had opened a factory in Ibach for the production of knives and surgical instruments, from which the knife factory Victorinox developed.\n\nCarl Elsener led the company initially with his father and his brother Eduard Elsener (b. 1926). After the death of his father in 1950, he took over the management. The Swiss Army Knife is considered to be one of his works.\n\nUnder the leadership of Carl Elsener Sr., the Messerfabrik became the largest company in the canton of Schwyz. In 1938, Elsener joined the company, which at the time had employed 80 people. At the time of his death, there was well over a thousand employees. Elsener is described as a boss who was able to operate almost all the machines himself, who was traveling in the \"Lismerli\" or in the blue work coat and who cycled to the factory. He never owned a car. A few years before his death, he felt healthy enough to put in an 80-hour week.\n\nIn October 2000, Elsner founded together with his brother Eduard Elsener and his son Carl Elsener Jr. as a successor solution, the Victorinox Foundation to ensure the continued existence and further prosperity of the company. The Foundation holds 75 percent of the shares of Victorinox AG, another 15 percent belong to the non-profit Carl u. Elise Elsener-Gut Foundation. The Elsener family owns 10 percent of the shares.\n\nAfter Carl Elsener Sr. passed away, his son Carl Elsener Jr. (* 1958) has been managing the company since 2007.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25153623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25153623", "title": "Christchurch Central City", "text": "Christchurch Central City\n\nChristchurch Central City is the geographical centre and the heart of Christchurch, New Zealand. It is defined as the area within the four avenues (Bealey Avenue, Fitzgerald Avenue, Moorhouse Avenue and Deans Avenue) and thus includes the densely built up central city, some less dense surrounding areas of residential, educational and industrial usage, and green space including Hagley Park, the Christchurch Botanic Gardens and the Barbadoes Street Cemetery.\n\nIt suffered heavy damage in the 2010 Canterbury earthquake and was devastated in the 2011 Christchurch earthquake. Following this second earthquake, the Central City Red Zone was set up and, with a gradually shrinking area, remained inaccessible except to authorised contractors until June 2013. However, proposals to relocate the city centre elsewhere, to avoid future damage, were considered both uneconomical (as much of the infrastructure was still mainly intact) and unnecessary, as the rebuilt city centre would be to modern building standards so as to be able to withstand similar quakes and liquefaction in the future.\n\nAt the centre of the city is Cathedral Square, surrounding the Anglican cathedral, Christ Church. The area around this square and within the four avenues of Christchurch is considered the central business district of the city.\n\nThe city centre is laid out in a grid pattern, interrupted only by the curvilinear alignment of the Avon River, and the two diagonals High Street and Victoria Street. Christchurch has four pairs of one-way streets. The grid pattern within the outermost one-way streets is very regular, as this is the area that was laid out in the original survey. The surrounding area, i.e. the belt between the outer one-way streets and the avenues, was developed later in a progressive fashion and does not have the regularity of the core area.\n\nLike most of the city, the centre is relatively flat.\n\nThe European settlement of Christchurch was undertaken by the Canterbury Association, which was founded in London in 1848. That year, the Canterbury Association sent out Captain Joseph Thomas, accompanied by surveyors, to select and prepare a site for settlement. Thomas originally placed the principal town of the proposed settlement at the head of Lyttelton Harbour, but when he realised there was insufficient flat land there to meet the Canterbury Association's requirements, he relocated Christchurch to where he had previously placed a town called 'Stratford' at a point on the Avon where those coming up the river first encountered slightly higher, drier ground. Back then, the Avon River was navigable as far as 'The Bricks' just upstream of the Barbadoes Street bridge. The site is these days marked by a riverbank cairn. The site got its name when the Deans Brothers in the 1840s had shipped bricks for their Riccarton homestead up the Avon River, which they unloaded in this location.\n\nChristchurch is one of a group of only four cities in the world that have been carefully planned following the same layout of a central city square, four complimenting city squares surrounding it and a parklands area that embrace the city centre. The first city built with this pattern was Philadelphia, later came Savannah and Adelaide. The fourth city using this pattern was Christchurch. As such Christchurch holds an important legacy and a strong platform for future development.\n\nThomas' plan for Christchurch (laid out by the surveyor Edward Jollie by March 1850) was the 'standard' rectangular grid of colonial settlement (adopted for ease of survey and to facilitate land sales). Thomas did not allow Jollie to include crescents to provide variety, but the Avon River ran eccentrically across the site. Two diagonal streets (High Street/Ferry Road leading to Ferrymead, Heathcote and Sumner and Victoria Street/Papanui Road leading to the Papanui Bush) also broke the regularity of the grid. At the very centre of the city was a 'Square' (which is actually cross-shaped) intended as a grand centre for the city and the site of the proposed cathedral and grammar school. East and north-west of the Square were two more 'squares' (Latimer and Cranmer Squares, which are actually rectangles) which were placed more or less regularly in relation to the diagonal line of the Avon running in a north-easterly direction across the city to the west and north of the central square.\n\nThe grid was laid out originally between Salisbury Street to the north and St Asaph Street to the south and between Barbadoes Street to the east and Rolleston Avenue/Park Terrace to the west. Between Salisbury, Barbadoes and St Asaph Streets and (respectively) the North, East and South Town Belts (these days called Bealey, Fitzgerald and Moorhouse Avenues) were 'town reserves', i.e. land with-held from immediate sale, which was sold off by the Provincial Government later in the 1850s to overcome cash flow problems. The streets of the original grid were mostly projected out to the Town Belts, but the street system is less systematic in the former 'town reserves'. The names chosen for the streets of the inner city almost all commemorate the English colonial origins of the settlement. The names chosen later for the town belts commemorate important personalities of early Christchurch. Jollie explains in his diary how the streets got their names:\n\nThe names of the streets of the three towns I surveyed were taken from Bishoprics and the way it was done was this; as soon as I completed the map I took it to Thomas who putting on his gold spectacles and opening his would read out a Bishop's name to hear if it sounded well. If I agreed with him that it did, I put the name to one of the streets requiring baptism.\n\nLyttelton being the first born town got the best names for its streets, Sumner being next had the next best and Christchurch being the youngest had to be content with chiefly Irish and Colonial bishoprics as names for its streets. This accounts for, what to anyone not knowing the circumstances, appears strange, viz: that many of the best English Bishoprics are not represented while Irish and Colonial ones are. Sumner in fact died too late for the names there used to be again employed in Christchurch.\n\nThe original plan from 1850 shows the north-west corner of the 'town reserves' (surrounded by the Avon River, Fitzgerald and Bealey Avenues and Barbadoes Street, with an additional small rectangular area to the west of Barbadoes Street) as the cemetery for the settlement. Individual town sections were shown on the survey plan, the Black Map, and numbered by the surveyors in a logical order, in contrast to the rural sections surrounding Christchurch, which were numbered at the time of and in the order of their purchase.\n\nThe following streets were those laid out in the 1850 survey (listed east to west, then north to south, then diagonals). Where a street name is one of the original names as devised by surveyors Joseph Thomas and Edward Jollie, this is marked as such.\n\n\n\n\nThe prime movers of the Canterbury Association were Edward Gibbon Wakefield and John Robert Godley. Godley, with his family, went out to New Zealand in early 1850 to oversee the preparations for the settlement (surveying, roads, accommodation, etc.) undertaken by Captain Joseph Thomas' team. These preparations were advanced, but incomplete when the first ships of settlers arrived on 16 December 1850, having been halted by Godley shortly after his arrival in April due to the mounting debts of the Association. The \"Charlotte-Jane\" and \"Randolph\" arrived in Lyttelton Harbour on the 16th, on the 17th, and \"Cressy\" on the 27th, having set sail from England in September 1850. The settlers on these First Four Ships were dubbed the \"Canterbury Pilgrims\" by the British press. A further 24 shiploads of Canterbury Association settlers, making a total of approximately 3,500, arrived over the next two and a half years.\n\nThe central city was among the most heavily damaged areas of Christchurch following the 2010 Canterbury earthquake. Many building façades collapsed into the streets and authorities cordoned off large areas of the central city following the event. Manchester Courts, the tallest commercial building in Christchurch when it was built in 1905–06 and a Category I heritage building suffered serious structural damage and was the first major building that was demolished, with the demolition finishing just days before the 2011 Christchurch earthquake.\n\nNearly six months later on Tuesday 22 February 2011, a second earthquake measuring magnitude 6.3 struck the city at 12:51 pm. It was located closer to the city,\nand although lower on the moment magnitude scale than the previous earthquake, the intensity and violence of the ground shaking was measured to be IX (\"Violent\") on the Mercalli intensity scale, and was among the strongest ever recorded globally in an urban area and in total 185 people were killed with nationals from more than 20 countries among the victims. ChristChurch Cathedral lost its spire and widespread damage was caused to city buildings already weakened by 4 September 2010 earthquake and its aftershocks.\n\nA large number of heritage buildings have been demolished since the earthquake, and most of the city's high rise buildings, including Hotel Grand Chancellor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Clarendon Tower, and Radio Network House have been demolished.\n\nMany churches have been demolished following the earthquakes, including Durham Street Methodist Church, Oxford Terrace Baptist Church, St Luke's Church, Christchurch, St Paul's Church, and St John the Baptist Church. Other churches are badly damaged and their fate is undecided, including the Cathedral of the Blessed Sacrament and the Anglican ChristChurch Cathedral. A replacement Anglican cathedral, the Cardboard Cathedral, opened in August 2013 on the site of the former St John the Baptist Church.\n\nThe Central City offered well over 450 unique retail businesses and over 130 cafes, restaurants, bars and clubs. It had the largest selection of fashion, food, café and entertainment in the South Island.\n\nThe central city has a number of residential areas, including Inner City East, Inner City West, Avon Loop, Moa Neighbourhood & Victoria. South of Tuam Street, commercial usage and some light industries are present. With over 6,000 full-time equivalent students, the Christchurch Polytechnic Institute of Technology is the major education provider in the city centre.\n\nCathedral Square was a popular destination and hosts attractions such as the speakers' corner made famous by the Wizard of New Zealand, Ian Brackenbury Channell, and evangelist Ray Comfort.\n\nA central city heritage tram system has been operated since 1995. In 2010, the system was extended to the south to form a figure of eight. The tram system does not fulfil a transport function and is aimed at the tourism market.\n\nIn 2010 the Christchurch City Council released \"A City For People Action Plan\", a program of work through to 2022 to improve public spaces within the central city to entice more inner city residents and visitors. A primary action is to reduce the impact of motorised private vehicles and increase the comfort of pedestrians and cyclists. The plan is based on a report prepared for the council by renowned Danish design firm Gehl Architects.\n\nThe central city includes the pedestrianised Cashel and High Streets, known as City Mall. At one end of the mall stands the Bridge of Remembrance; at the intersection of Cashel and High Streets is the old location of the amphitheatre known as the Hack Circle; and the portion of High Street up to the junction of Colombo and Hereford Streets forms the remaining part of the mall. The concept of a pedestrian mall originated in 1965 as part of a central city redevelopment study. The project was publicly notified in the 1968 District Scheme, and again in the 1979 review. In 1981, the Christchurch City Council, in collaboration with the Cashel and High Street Businessmen's Associations, adopted a design and authorised implementation. The streets were closed to traffic on 11 January 1982 and the Mall was opened by the former Mayor, Sir Hamish Hay, on 7 August 1982.\n\nThe Bridge of Remembrance was opened on Armistice Day, 11 November 1924 by the Governor-General, Admiral of the Fleet, Lord Jellicoe, who had previously laid the foundation stone on Anzac Day, 25 April 1923. The road through the bridge was removed and the short stretch between Oxford Terrace and Cambridge Terrace opened as a pedestrian precinct on 25 April 1977 (Anzac Day) by Captain Charles Upham, i.e. this stretch became a pedestrian precinct some five years before the establishment of City Mall.\n\nAnother pedestrianised street is New Regent Street, which has building facades in the Spanish Mission style. It became a pedestrian mall as part of the heritage tram loop in 1995. The street survived the earthquake with little damage, and is now functioning with several shops, and appearances by the Wizard of New Zealand.\nPrior to the earthquakes, the Christchurch City Council was considering turning a section of Oxford Terrace (the section between Cashel Street and Hereford Street, then known as \"The Strip\") into a part-time pedestrian mall (nightly from 11 pm to 5 am).\n\nSince around 2005, two precincts have developed in small central city lanes, known as \"Poplar Lane\" and \"South of Lichfield\" or \"SOL Square\". A large number of bars are accommodated in these two areas, with a very active night life. These areas complement \"The Strip\", a part of Oxford Terrace that started to support outdoor dining during the day and night time entertainment in the 1990s.\n\nThe Cultural Precinct provides a backdrop to a vibrant scene of ever-changing arts, cultural, and heritage attractions within an area of less than one square kilometre. The Arts Centre, the Canterbury Museum, the Christchurch Art Gallery and the Centre of Contemporary Art (CoCA) are located in the Cultural Precinct. The majority of the activities are free.\n\nThe central city has a large number of registered heritage buildings that are either listed with Heritage New Zealand or are noted in the Christchurch City Plan. A large number of these buildings have been significantly damaged by the recent earthquakes. Some heritage buildings collapsed during the February earthquake (e.g. the Stone Chamber of the Canterbury Provincial Council Buildings), many have been demolished already (e.g. St Elmo Courts, The Press Building or St Luke's Church), and for many heritage buildings, the fate is as yet unclear (e.g. the Peterborough Centre.) McLean's Mansion in Manchester Street, a 53-room dwelling built in 1900 for 78-year-old bachelor Allan McLean, is currently threatened with demolition.\n\nThe central city prior to the 2010-2011 earthquakes had an increasing residential population. The last four New Zealand censuses had the usual resident population on 30 June recorded as follows:\n\nThe Christchurch City Council alongside Otakaro Limited is trying to revitalise the central city. The Council aspires to have 30,000 residents living within the Four Avenues by 2026. When the historic census population (for 1996, 2001 and 2006) is plotted and extrapolated to 2026, and compared to the required growth to reach a projected population of 30,000 residents by 2026, it becomes clear that this is an ambitious goal. Entire city blocks have been earmarked for residential development, as well as private developments, aiming toward this goal.\n\nThe central city is an important employment area supporting 26,000 full-time equivalent (FTE) employees, and with much of the floor area taken up by office space. One of the biggest employers is Christchurch City Council with 800 FTE at the civic offices.\n\nThe southern part of the central city has traditionally been home to manufacturing, but there has been a decline in this area, with many companies either moving to commercial subdivisions, closing, or relocating overseas.\n\nMany education providers are located in the city centre. Christchurch Polytechnic with 6000 students is the largest of these. There are numerous language schools, providing a platform for an important market of attracting mainly Asian students to the city.\n\nThere are several schools in the central city.\n\n\nHagley Park is, at 165 ha, the largest urban open space in Christchurch. The park was created in 1855 by the Provincial Government. According to the government's decree at that time, Hagley Park is \"reserved forever as a public park, and shall be open for the recreation and enjoyment of the public.\" Hagley Park is characterised by its trees and broad open spaces. Hagley Park was named after the country estate of Lord Lyttelton, who became chairman of the Canterbury Association in March 1850.\n\nThe Christchurch Botanic Gardens are botanical gardens founded in 1863, when on 9 July an English oak was planted to commemorate the solemnisation of marriage between Prince Albert and Princess Alexandra of Denmark. The Gardens cover an area of 21 hectares, and lie adjacent to the loop of the Avon River next to Hagley Park.\n\nThe Barbadoes Street Cemetery is a large green space in the north-east of the central city. It is the city’s oldest cemetery and opened in 1851. It is the final resting place of many of Christchurch’s early leading citizens. The cemetery itself is divided by Barbadoes Street separating the Anglican (Church of England) section, on the eastern side, from the Roman Catholic and Dissenters (others) section on the west. The cemetery was initially envisaged to be much larger, but with the establishment of suburbs and villages with their own cemeteries, it became clear that less land was needed. The cemetery was subdivided in 1896 and Churchill Street was formed, with the eastern part of the original cemetery thus becoming a residential area.\n\nDue to the grid pattern of the roads, the central city has a high number of traffic signals. Four pairs of one-way streets are located only a few hundred metres away from Cathedral Square, making it easy to drive through the city centre. The avenues in the north, east and south surrounding the central city are generally six-lane median divided. Fitzgerald and Bealey Avenues stand out due to the trees in those central medians.\n\nWith about 30,000 car parks (both public and private), the central city has one of the highest ratios of car parking and employment of the OECD countries. As both driving and parking is relatively easy, Christchurch has a high car ownership rate.\n\nCycling is reasonably popular in central Christchurch, with the second highest rate of commuter cycling in New Zealand (after Nelson). Free covered bike lock-ups are located in six City Council-run car parking buildings.\n\nPublic transport in Christchurch is mainly based on buses and supported by taxis. There is a functioning tram service in Christchurch, but as a tourist attraction, its loop is restricted to a circuit of the central city and it does not fulfil a public transport function.\n\nThe city council provided the current \"Bus Exchange\" between Lichfield and Cashel Streets in November 2000. A new \"Transport Interchange\" is planned for the block surrounded by Lichfield, Colombo, Tuam and Durham Streets, as the existing Bus Exchange is nearing capacity.\n\nLong distance buses depart mostly from Worcester Street near Cathedral Square. All local buses that go through the central city use the \"Bus Exchange\". It is envisaged that long distance and local services will all use the \"Transport Interchange\". In addition to normal bus services, the central city has a zero-fare hybrid bus service, the \"Shuttle\".\n\nThe railway station used to be located on the southern boundary of the central city on Moorhouse Avenue, but has been relocated to the suburb of Riccarton.\n"}
{"id": "47059783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47059783", "title": "Claire Dorland-Clauzel", "text": "Claire Dorland-Clauzel\n\nClaire Dorland-Clauzel (born 15 November 1954 in Rennes, France) is a French businesswoman. From 2008 to 2018 she was the executive vice president of Michelin’s brands, sustainable development, The Michelin Guide and external relations. She also was a member of the Group’s Executive Committee.\n\nClaire Dorland-Clauzel studied khâgne at the lycée Henri-IV and obtained a master in History at La Sorbonne. She also obtained a doctorate in Geography at the Paris institute of Géographie and is an alumnus of the école nationale d’administration (class of 1988).\n\nClaire Dorland-Clauzel started her career in the French public administration in 1988, at the department of treasury, in charge of foreign investments operating in France. In 1993, she took the lead of Christian Noyer's cabinet when he was promoted head of the department of treasury and she also became deputy CFO to French steel-maker Usinor. From 1995 to 1997, she became the chief of staff for the director of the treasury department, and joined Jean Arthuis’ cabinet as a technical advisor when he became minister of the economy. In 1997, she was the head of life and health insurance office of the treasury department.\n\nIn 1998, Claire Dorland-Clauzel joined the insurance company AXA as the head of the audit and control department, and became a member of the executive committee. In 2000, she became AXA France’s head of support functions, and in 2003, she was appointed to head of communications and sustainable development. She also shifted from being a member of AXA France’ executive committee to being a member of the group’s committee.\n\nIn 2008, Claire Dorland-Clauzel joined French pneumatic manufacturer Michelin as head of communications and member of Michelin's board of directors. In 2009, she managed Michelin’s first worldwide communications campaign. In June 2012, she was also given the supervision of public affairs, Michelin Lifestyle and Michelin Travel Partner, which made her the supervisor of the Michelin Guide, which she says is a crucial component of Michelin’s “brand content” strategy to communicate on the quality of the products it caters to its customers. In December 2014, she was appointed executive vice president of Michelin’s brands and external relations.\n\nShe oversaw the publication of five new Michelin guides about cities in Asia and America between 2014 and 2017, including the first Michelin guide on China in 2016 with one guide dedicated to the city of Shanghai.\n\nFrom March 13, 2017 to 2018 she also was in charge of sustainable development and mobility for the Michelin group. In this role, she supervises the organization of Movin'On, a global conference on sustainable mobility which picks up the baton from the Michelin Challenge Bibendum event.\n\nThe first edition took place in June 2017 in Montreal, Canada. Michelin presented “Vision”, a concept wheel and tire that is airless, smart, uses 100% biodegradable bio-based materials and 3D printing.\n\nIn february 2018, she announced her departure from Michelin, to run a wine business, le « Château La Tuilière » in the Bordeaux wine-growing region.\n\n"}
{"id": "52111378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52111378", "title": "Codentify", "text": "Codentify\n\nCodentify is the name of a product serialization system developed and patented by Philip Morris International (PMI) for tobacco product authenticity verification and supply chain control. In the production process, each cigarette package is marked with a unique visible code (also called “Codentify”), that allows authenticating the code against a central server.\n\nIn November 2010, PMI licensed the system to its three main competitors, namely British American Tobacco (BAT), Imperial Tobacco Group (ITG), and Japan Tobacco International (JTI), and the four companies together formed the Digital Coding and Tracking Association (DCTA) which works to promote the system in order to replace governmental revenue stamps. Codentify is branded by its inventors as a “track & trace and product authentication technology”.\n\nIn July 2004, Phillip Morris International and the European Union had settled a 12 year long legal dispute concerning cigarette smuggling charges. PMI agreed to pay 1.25 Billion USD to the EU budget and its member states. In addition, PMI was legally obligated to mark its products with trackable serial codes. Agreements were subsequently signed with the other three major tobacco companies.\n\nPMI's daughter company, Philip Morris Products S.A. created and patented the Codentify system in 2005.\n\nIn late 2010, PMI licensed Codentify to its main competitors BAT, JTI, and ITG free of charge. The four companies, which together account for 71% of global cigarette sales (excluding China), agreed to use the PMI-developed system on all of their products to ensure “the adoption of a single industry standard, based on Codentify.” The Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (FCTC) immediately voiced concerns that “Codentify should never be used for tracking and tracing purposes as tracking and tracing provisions should be implemented under the strict control and management of governments.”\n\nIn 2011, the four companies formed the Digital Coding and Tracking Association (DCTA) to promote international standards and digital technologies to help governments fight smuggling, counterfeiting and tax evasion. The association was officially launched in 2013.\n\nAccording to the DCTA, around 12% of the global cigarette market is illicit, depriving national governments of more than US$40 billion a year in lost tax revenues and some say this is a serious underestimate. The agreements between the EU and the four major tobacco companies aim to stem the illicit trade of cigarettes, but are seen by academics in the field as a wholly inadequate deterrent. The EU has since not renewed this deal after MEPs complained that it was ineffective and inappropriate that governments and tobacco companies have such a deal.\n\nIn June 2016 the DCTA announced that it transferred Codentify to Inexto, an affiliate of the French Group Impala. This was criticized by leading industry watchdogs such as the FCTC and academics such as Anna Gilmore, who is the director of the tobacco control research group at the University of Bath. She said that “Inexto could not be considered sufficiently independent from the tobacco industry\". Martyn Day, Scottish National Party Member of Parliament, says while Codentify was sold \"the new owner is merely a front company and that the system is still under the effective control of the tobacco firms\". Other academics such as Luk Joossens, who is the advocacy officer of the Association of European Cancer Leagues, said the sale was “predictable” and that tobacco companies will now “pretend” that Codentify is no longer part of the tobacco industry. PMI have rebutted that “Inexto is fully independent from the tobacco industry.\"\n\nA communiqué by Argentine lawyer Alejandro Sánchez Kalbermatten to the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) explained the relationship between PMI, Inexto and Impala in a diagram.\n\nThe Codentify system is based on a machine-created, unique, human-readable 12-digit alphanumeric code that is printed directly onto every individual product during the manufacturing process. Factory level encryption keys are stored on a server and allows for the production of a pre-defined number of Codentify codes.\n\nThe code created by the system is described as random, offering 34 possible combinations. A range of data can be encrypted into the code such as date and time of manufacture, the machine of manufacture, brand, variant, pack size, pack type, destination market, and price.\n\nThis system presents limitations as it only allows for the verification of the code itself, not of the product the code is printed on and is potentially open to copying. A European Commission Assessment Report into Tracking and Tracing notes in section 5.1.2 that in addition to the Codentify code being easily copied, it also fails to link the cigarette packets to the master cases.\n\nCodentify has been the subject of harsh criticism as a tobacco industry promoted system which is aimed at undermining public health efforts and not capable of curbing the illicit trade of cigarettes. This criticism has come from academics and pro-health groups as well as government agencies, including the WHO.\n\nThe WHO FCTC Protocol on the Elimination of the Illicit Trade in Tobacco products states in article 8, section 12 that tobacco tracking and regulation “shall not be performed by or delegated to the tobacco industry”.\n\nCritics of the tobacco industry say Codentify is simply not good enough, “because it focuses too much on production and does not store product codes or track them.”\n\nHeavy criticism has also been launched at the factory-level keys the system uses to provide unique verification codes for the product. Since these secret keys are stored on company and government servers, abuse of privileges on this level would allow criminals to generate additional codes, which would appear to be genuine to the system.\n\nThe decentralized nature of the system also allows for a variety of other counterfeiting efforts critics say, such as “code recycling”, using codes of products rejected in quality control, “code cloning”, printing the same code on multiple products, and “code migration”, reprinting codes used in one country elsewhere, allowing the reuse of genuine codes multiple times.\n\nAdditionally, Action on Smoking and Health (ASH) described the system as a black box created by the tobacco industry that uses unsecured equipment that is vulnerable to code recycling.\n"}
{"id": "12084741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12084741", "title": "Collateral Billing number", "text": "Collateral Billing number\n\nA Collateral Billing number (CBN) is a number that sometimes can be given in place of a purchase order or a credit card number to ensure a products return. For example, you receive a defective product and call the manufacturer, they in turn send you a replacement unit after collecting a purchase order, credit card or collateral billing number from you to charge the cost of the unit to in the event that you do not return the original unit.\n"}
{"id": "33593169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33593169", "title": "David Hay (artist)", "text": "David Hay (artist)\n\nDavid Ramsay Hay (March 1798, Edinburgh – 10 September 1866) was a Scottish artist, interior decorator and colour theorist.\n\nDavid Ramsay Hay was the son of Rebekah or Rebecca Carmichael, a published poet and friend of Robert Burns. They lived at the foot of Monteith's Close off the Royal Mile in Edinburgh. After her husband died prematurely and penniless, David was educated at the expense of her brother, David Ramsay, a banker and owner of the \"Edinburgh Evening Courant\" then apprenticed as a reading-boy in Ramsay's printing office in Edinburgh. Instead though (around 1813), Hay moved to join Gavin Beugo (son of John Beugo) a decorative artist, based on West Register Street in Edinburgh's New Town. His fellow-apprentice was his friend, the topographical artist David Roberts. In April 1820 he commenced work at Abbotsford for Walter Scott. In 1850 he decorated Holyroodhouse for Queen Victoria. In the 1920s, Queen Mary had these decorative schemes painted over, but watercolours commissioned by Victoria in 1863 give some idea of their appearance.\n\nHay was an advocate of imitative finishes such as graining and marbling, and textured paints to imitate brocade fabrics. From 1828, he developed his theory of colour harmony over six successive editions of his book, \"The Laws of Harmonious Colouring Adapted to Interior Decorations\". Hay wrote about his experience decorating Abbotsford for Walter Scott in the sixth edition of his \"Harmonious Colouring.\"\n\nIn his final years he had exclusive premises at 90 George Street in the centre of Edinburgh's New Town.\n\nHe died in Edinburgh on 10 September 1866. He is buried in Warriston Cemetery in the north of the city. The substantial tombstone stands to the south-west of the sealed eastern entrance. The monument is vandalised and the original bronze bas-relief sculpture of his profile has been stolen.\n\nsee\n\n"}
{"id": "2837919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2837919", "title": "Evidence-based policy", "text": "Evidence-based policy\n\nEvidence-based policy (EBP) is a term often applied in multiple fields of public policy to refer to situations whereby policy decisions are informed by rigorously established objective evidence. Underlying many of the calls for 'evidence based policy' is often a (stated or unstated) concern with fidelity to scientific good practice, reflecting the belief that social goals are best served when scientific evidence is used rigorously and comprehensively to inform decisions, rather than in a piecemeal, manipulated, or cherry-picked manner. \n\nConceptually the term has been seen as an extension of the Scientific method or evidence-based medicine to all areas of public policy. \n\nSome have promoted particular types of evidence as 'best' for policy makers to consider, including scientifically rigorous evaluation studies such as randomized controlled trials to identify programs and practices capable of improving policy-relevant outcomes. However, some areas of policy-relevant knowledge are not well served by quantitative research, leading to debate about the methods and instruments that are considered critical for the collection of relevant evidence. For instance, policies that are concerned with human rights, public acceptability, or social justice may require other evidence than what randomized trials provide, or may require moral philosophical reasoning in addition to considerations of evidence of intervention effect (which randomised trials are principally designed to provide ). Good data, analytical skills and political support to the use of scientific information, as such, are typically seen as the important elements of an evidence-based approach.\n\nAlthough evidence-based policy can be traced as far back as the fourteenth century, it was more recently popularized by the Blair Government in the United Kingdom. The Blair Government said they wanted to end the ideological led-based decision making for policy making. For example, a UK Government white paper published in 1999 (\"Modernising Government\") noted that Government must \"produce policies that really deal with problems, that are forward-looking and shaped by evidence rather than a response to short-term pressures; that tackle causes not symptoms\".\n\nEvidence-based policy is associated with Adrian Smith because in his 1996 presidential address to the Royal Statistical Society, Smith questioned the current process of policy making and urged for a more “evidence-based approach” commenting that it has “valuable lessons to offer”.\n\nSome policy scholars now avoid using the term 'evidence based' policy, using others such as 'evidence informed'. This language shift allows continued thinking about the underlying desire to \"improve\" evidence use in terms of its rigor or quality, while avoiding some of the key limitations or reductionist ideas at times seen with the 'evidence based' language. Still, the language of 'evidence based' policy is widely used and, as such, can be interpreted to reflect a desire for evidence to be used well or appropriately in one way or another - such as by ensuring systematic consideration of rigorous and high quality policy relevant evidence, or by avoiding biased and erroneous applications of evidence for political ends.\n\nThe earliest form of evidence-based policy was tariff-making in Australia which was required under legislation to be educated by the public report issued by the Tariff Board. These reports were initially only reporting on the impacts but changed to also report on the effects of industries and the economy.\n\nMany scholars see the term \"evidence-based policy\" as evolving from \"evidence-based medicine\", in which research findings are used as the support for clinical decisions and evidence is gathered by randomized controlled trials (RCTs), which is comparing a treatment group with a placebo group to measure results. In 1993, the Cochrane Collaboration was established in the UK, and works to keep all RCTs up-to-date and provides \"Cochrane reviews\" which provides primary research in human health and health policy. There was then an increase in research and policy activists pushing for more evidence-based policy-making which led to the formation of the sister organization to Cochrane Collaboration, the Campbell Collaboration in 1999. The Campbell Collaboration conducts reviews on the best evidence that analyzes the effects of social and educational policies and practices.\n\nThe Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) became involved in the push for more evidence-based policy making with its 1.3 million pound grant to the Evidence Network in 1999. The Evidence Network is a center for evidence-based policy and practice and is similar to both the Campbell and Cochrane Collaboration.\n\nMore recently the Alliance for Useful Evidence has been established, with funding from ESRC, Big Lottery and Nesta, to champion the use of evidence in social policy and practice. The Alliance is a UK-wide network that promotes the use of high quality evidence to inform decisions on strategy, policy and practice through advocacy, publishing research, sharing ideas and advice, and holding events and training.\n\nRecently questions have been raised about the conflicts-of-interest inherent to evidence-based decision-making used in public policy development. In a study of vocational education in prisons operated by the California Department of Corrections, Andrew J. Dick, William Rich, and Tony Waters found that political considerations inevitably intruded into “evidence-based decisions” which were ostensibly technocratic in nature. They point out that this is particularly where evidence is paid for by policy makers who have a vested interest in having past political judgments confirmed, evidence based research is likely to be corrupted.\n\nThere are many methodologies for evidence-based policy but they all share the following characteristics:\n\nThe form of methodology used with evidence-based policy fit under the category of a cost-benefit framework and are created to estimate a net payoff if the policy was to be implemented. Because there is a difficulty in quantifying some effects and outcomes of the policy, it is mostly focused broadly on whether or not benefits will outweigh costs, instead of using specific values.\n\nSeveral critiques have emerged. Paul Cairney, professor of politics and public policy at the University of Stirling in Scotland, argues that supporters of the idea underestimate the complexity of policy-making and misconstrue the way that policy decisions are usually made. Moreover, evidence has emerged of front-line public servants, like hospital managers, making decisions that actually worsen patients' care in order to hit pre-ordained targets. This argument was put forward by Professor Jerry Muller of the Catholic University of America in a book called The Tyranny of Metrics. A comprehensive list of critiques, including the fact that policies shown to be successful in one place often fail in others, despite reaching a gold standard of evidence, has been compiled by the policy platform Apolitical. \nThe Overseas Development Institute has pioneered RAPID Outcome Mapping Approach (ROMA) over the past five years as a means to help aid donors and partners better transform research into policy initiatives. This approach is supported by other research within the development community. For instance, in a literature review focused on development, an integrated, participatory, structured and empowering approach to using evidence and data in decision-making to inform development decisions was tied to improved results. \n\nSix key lessons have been developed, which are:\n\n\nThese lessons show that the relationship between research, policy and practice is complex, multi-factoral, non-linear, and highly context specific. What works in one situation may not work in another. Developing effective strategies in complex environments is not straightforward. Simple tools such as cost–benefit analysis, logical frameworks, traditional project management tools and others may not work on their own, as they fail to take into account the existing complexity.\n\nBased on research conducted in six Asian and African countries, the Future Health Systems consortium has identified a set of key strategies for improving uptake of evidence in to policy, including: improving the technical capacity of policy-makers; better packaging of research findings; use of social networks; establishment of fora to assist in linking evidence with policy outcomes.\n\nROMA approach takes these lessons into account has been field tested through more than 40 workshops and training courses worldwide. It is an eight-step approach for each of which the ODI has developed resources and policy tools to ensure each step is comprehensively addressed:\n\n\nAn example of ROMA approach can be seen in the case of the Wildlife Enforcement Monitoring System (WEMS) Initiative where a systematic approach of agreement has brought its implementation in Africa.\n\nThis has resulted in:\n\n\nThe Coalition is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization, whose mission is to increase government effectiveness through the use of rigorous evidence about “what works.” Since 2001, the Coalition's work with U.S. Congressional and Executive Branch officials has advanced evidence-based reforms in U.S. social programs, which have been enacted into law and policy. The Coalition has no affiliation with any programs or program models, and no financial interest in the policy ideas it supports, enabling it to serve as an independent, objective source of expertise to government officials on evidence-based policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4012110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4012110", "title": "Expedited Funds Availability Act", "text": "Expedited Funds Availability Act\n\nThe Expedited Funds Availability Act (EFA or EFAA) was enacted in 1987 by the United States Congress for the purpose of standardizing hold periods on deposits made to commercial banks and to regulate institutions' use of deposit holds. It is also referred to as Regulation CC or Reg CC, after the Federal Reserve regulation that implements the act. The law is codified in Title 12, Chapter 41 of the US Code and Title 12, Part 229 of the Code of Federal Regulations.\n\nFinancial institutions must disclose their hold policies to all account holders, and make the policy available in written form upon request by any customer. It must also be provided at the time of opening of all new accounts.\n\nAdditional disclosures are required on deposit slips, at automated teller machines, and when the policy is changed in any way.\n\nRegulation CC stipulates four types of holds that a bank may place on a check deposit at its discretion. Each has its own qualifications and it is legal for the bank to place any type where the requirements are met, although bank policy may instruct that the type of hold placed be the one that holds the most funds the longest that can be applied legally.\n\nAs of February 27, 2010, there is only one check processing region for the entire United States. Therefore, all checks are now local.\n\nRegarding insurance checks, if the insurance check is drawn on an in-state bank funds will be available on the 5th business day; if the insurance check is drawn on an out-of-state bank funds will be available on the 7th business day.\n\nThere are a few exceptions to these guidelines that are important to note. If an account owner is depositing into an account that does not qualify for the exception hold but also owns another account that does qualify, then the Exception NSF Hold can be placed. In the same manner, if an account owner is depositing into an account that has been open for less than 30 days but owns another account that has been open greater than 30 days, the New Account Hold cannot be legally placed.\n\nThere are certain items that present less risk to financial institutions and thus are subject to expedited availability under the stipulations of Regulation CC. The following items must have the first $5000 available for the Statutory, Large Deposit and New Account Hold by the first business day following the deposit:\n\n\nFor each of these items, the item must be presented for deposit into the payee's account for it to receive expedited fund availability; when one of these checks is presented for deposit into a third party account, it loses its preferential treatment. Also, the bank may require use of a special deposit slip or envelope for next-day availability of cashier's checks, certified checks, teller's checks, or state & local government checks; if it does so, it must notify customers and tell them how to obtain the special slip or envelope.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>\"Regulation CC defines a \"cashier's check\" as a check that is issued by a bank, drawn on that same bank, is a direct liability of the bank, and signed by one or more officers of that bank. Though the term \"teller's check\" is commonly used only by Federal credit unions, under Regulation CC any check \"drawn by the bank, and drawn on another bank or payable through or at a bank\" is a \"teller's check\" if issued \"for remittance purposes\". \"Official Checks\" or \"Bank Checks\" may not qualify as \"cashier's checks\" under Regulation CC, but they usually qualify for next-day availability as \"teller's checks\".\"\n\nAccording to the regulation, interest-bearing accounts shall receive earnings from funds from the time they are collected by the depository institution, regardless of hold lengths.\n\nUnder the act, enforcement is divided by the type of institution, respective to each type's mandated oversight authority:\n\nAwards for damages are limited under the regulation, including not more than $1000 in addition to actual damages for individual actions, and not more than the lesser of $500,000 or 1% of the net worth of the bank, in addition to actual damages, for class actions.\n\nOn June 9, 2014, the United States House of Representatives passed \"To amend the Expedited Funds Availability Act to clarify the application of that Act to American Samoa and the Northern Mariana Islands.\" The bill, if it were to become law, would extend \"by two business days, for American Samoa, any time periods established for large or redeposited check, repeated overdraft, reasonable cause, or other emergency exceptions to the 30-day funds availability requirements for deposits in an depository institution account by a new depositor.\" It would also apply \"this two-day extension to any deposit in an account at a depository institution located in American Samoa by a check drawn on an originating depository institution which is not located in the same state as the receiving depository institution.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34246324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34246324", "title": "Francis Borelli", "text": "Francis Borelli\n\nFrancis Borelli (8 April 1932 – 2 October 2007) was a French businessman. He was the chairman of the football club Paris Saint-Germain from 1978 to 1991.\n"}
{"id": "21879224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21879224", "title": "Freeport Center", "text": "Freeport Center\n\nThe Freeport Center is a manufacturing, warehousing, and distribution center located in Clearfield, Utah, United States. It was originally built in 1942 as the Clearfield Naval Supply Depot, which was decommissioned in 1962.\n\nThe Freeport Center consists of 78 buildings, totaling more than . \n\nBuildings range in size from to . Most buildings have a railroad loading dock on one side, and a truck loading dock on the other. \n\nAbout 70 companies have manufacturing and distribution facilities in the Freeport Center, including Lifetime Products, Alliant Techsystems, Don Julio Foods, and Utility Trailer Manufacturing Company, as well as being the former headquarters of defunct roller coaster company Arrow Dynamics.\n\nThe Freeport Center’s name is a reference to Utah’s Freeport Law, enacted in 1988. This law exempts inventory held for sale from property taxes.\n"}
{"id": "692113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=692113", "title": "Fusing (manufacturing)", "text": "Fusing (manufacturing)\n\n\"For the art, see stained glass fusing.\"\n\nFusing is a type of manufacturing process for joining or terminating electrical magnet wire, that is coated with a varnish (film) type insulation, to itself or some type of electrical terminal, without prior removal of the insulation. During the fusing process, the varnish film insulation is vaporized automatically. The entire process takes between a quarter of a second to 50 seconds, depending upon the geometry of the wires being joined.\n"}
{"id": "12800909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12800909", "title": "Gross merchandise volume", "text": "Gross merchandise volume\n\nGross Merchandise Volume (alternatively Gross Merchandise Value or GMV) is a term used in online retailing to indicate a total sales dollar value for merchandise sold through a particular marketplace over a certain time frame. Site revenue comes from fees and is different from the dollar value of items sold.\n\nGMV for e-commerce retail companies means sale price charged to the customer multiplied by the number of items sold. For example, if a company sells 10 books at $100, the GMV is $1,000. This is also considered as \"gross revenue\". In this case, the business model is based on a retail model, where the company basically purchases the items, maintains inventory (if need be) and finally, sells or delivers the items to customers. It does not tell the net sales as GMV does not include discounts, costs involved and returns of products.\n"}
{"id": "12308509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12308509", "title": "Home Accents Today", "text": "Home Accents Today\n\nHome Accents Today () is a trade publication and web site owned by Progressive Business Media serving the information needs of designers, manufacturers and buyers (retailers, e-tailers and interior designers) of home accents - decorative accessories, accent furniture, wall decor, mirrors, rugs, lamps, lighting, permanent botanicals, soft goods and tabletop. \n\nThe editor-in-chief is Susan Dickenson, and the editorial offices are located in Greensboro, North Carolina, USA. Jennifer Burton is managing editor, Tracy Bulla is the senior style director, and Thomas Lester is business editor.\nEstablished in 1986, Home Accents Today national issue publishes monthly in print and digital formats. The magazine also publishes daily issues at the semiannual High Point, Las Vegas and Atlanta home furnishings markets. Regular features focus on new products, style trends, retail and interior design business operations and strategies, trade industry news and category reports.\n\nThe magazine also offers Best of Market editions as well as daily coverage updates via its website (homeaccentstoday.com), video content (PBM News Desk), and social media platforms. \n\nHome Accents Today publishes exclusive research including consumer buying trends, store operations, the Home Accents \"Universe\" by product category, Retail Stars (showcasing independent brick and mortar retailers), and special reports on the home furnishings retail channels, technologies and best practices.\n\nFormer owner Reed Business Information sold Home Accents Today to Sandow Media, the publishers of \"Worth\" in 2010. Progressive Business Media purchased the company in 2013. Other Progressive Business Media titles include Furniture/Today, Home & Textiles Today, Gifts and Decorative Accessories, Home Furnishings News, Casual Living and Kids Today.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32472449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32472449", "title": "Institute of Workplace and Facilities Management", "text": "Institute of Workplace and Facilities Management\n"}
{"id": "37552637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37552637", "title": "Jan Louwers", "text": "Jan Louwers\n\nJan Louwers (3 July 1930 – 1 November 2012) was a Dutch professional footballer and millionaire businessman.\n\nLouwers played football for FC Eindhoven, PSV and Roda JC. The Jan Louwers Stadion is named after him.\n\nAfter retiring in 1967 he became a wholesaler; in 1988 his company had a turnover of €80 million.\n"}
{"id": "6004106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6004106", "title": "Jesse Simons", "text": "Jesse Simons\n\nJesse Simons (November 5, 1917 – July 8, 2006) was an American labor arbitrator, who helped set in place a system of collective bargaining between New York City (NYC) and its employees.\n\nSimons was born in New Haven, Connecticut, he attended the University of Minnesota, the University of Washington and the University of New York, he failed to earn a degree from any of these institutions. Simons was a firm believer in unionism and his politics during the 1930s and 1940s were Trotskyist. During this period, he held a variety of jobs from machinist to Linotype operator. From 1944-1946, Simons served in the Army Air Forces.\n\nAfter demobilization, Simons became Political Director of the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union. He later became manager of Personnel and Industrial Relations for the New York Post, a position he held until 1961.\n\nFrom 1963-1966, Simons directed the American Arbitration Association's Labor Management Institute. Following two lengthy strikes in 1965 by NYC employees, Mayor Robert F. Wagner, Jr. convened a committee to create an independent agency to oversee municipal labor relations. Simons was an adviser to this committee and his contribution ultimately helped to bring about the NYC Collective Bargaining Law (1967). This law led to the formation of the NYC Office of Collective Bargaining, who mediate and arbitrate between the city and the bulk of its employees.\n\nSimons died in New York, at age 88, from heart failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "16741582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16741582", "title": "Kenya Flower Council", "text": "Kenya Flower Council\n\nThe Kenya Flower Council is a voluntary body of industrial association for floriculture in Kenya. Its secretariat is in Nairobi.\n\nThe Council is involved in issues of industry lobbying, worker safety, environmental protection, industrial regulation, industrial development and flower farming company accreditation, as well as more weighty issues of global carbon dioxide emissions and international industrial diplomacy. KFC Code of Practice (CoP) is assigned to the whole flower industry in Kenya, promoting good agricultural practice, sustainability and social accountability, while hygiene health and safety is highly respected along with capacity building, environmental protection and conservation to adhere to.\n\nIn 1970, Kenya did not export floriculture crops, and it is currently the major exporter to the European Union, as an exporter of 38% of cut flower into the EU. The main European Union markets are Holland, United Kingdom, Germany, France, and Switzerland.Kenya’s export of cut flowers for international flower market started to expand in 1990, both in volume and value year by year. It was 10,946 tons in 1988, 86,480 tons (2006) and reached 122,825 tons in 2015. According to Kenya National Bureau of Statistics in 2014, the flower farming industry earned Kshs 54.6 billion. \n\nThe Kenya Flower Council was formed in 1996 to represent those independent Kenyan cut flower and ornamental plant growers with exporters, and its membership counts approximately 100 enlisted as of August 2016 with 3,000 small scale out growers. \n\nThat membership provides over 65% of the flowers exported. The increasing demand in the UK market especially on mixed bouquets encouraged more direct sales from Kenya, in contrast to the conventional auction system. However, as Kenyan flower industry has grown to dominate the UK market, social and environmental strains was caused rooted in the rose farms surrounding Lake Naivasha which was brought to the attention of EU media.\n\nIn 2015, Kenya Flower Council announced to the flower industry to put up programs and implement compliance regulation nationwide in response to the importing nations and their move for stringent regulations; the import taxes EU imposed on Kenyan cut flowers in October 2014 was seen slowing down the industry. However, the planning and advice the Council provided for the reform failed to meet the timetable set by the EU to result in penalty money on the industry.\n\nWith a financial aid of 400,000 US dollars provided by the Dutch government for the program implementation, the KFC anticipated to involve all sectors in the Kenyan flower industry by the end of 2015. \n\nKenya provides 40 percent of all European Union imports with its floricultural produces, and the risk to lose competition against other developing cut flower exporters in the world put the industry in Kenya to meet the EU regulation in the form of tariff, which was lifted in December 2015. \n\nRwanda is negotiated for ODA partnership with Kenyan government to gain support on cut flower industry. A development of flower park is initiated by KFC, expanding over 35 hectare is discussed located in 30 kilometers' radius from Kigali, Rwanda's capital. By 2017, estimated income to Rwandan government from the local flower farming industry will be in excess of $200 million, or annual yield of three million cut flowers\n\nDomestically, the Kenya Flower Council (KFC) is affiliated with the Horticultural Crops Development Authority (HCDA), the Fresh Produce Exporters Association of Kenya (FPEAK) and with the Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS). It publishes a detailed Code of Practice (CoP) and employs a rating system for its member companies, involving Gold Standard ranking, Silver Standard ranking and Associate rankings.\nGlobally, the board subscribes to the Good Agricultural Practices guideline system of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), and to GLOBALG.A.P. A yearly growth of 5 percent is anticipated for the flower industry in Kenya between 2016 and 2020, and the government is going to continue investments as well as to accumulate and expand growth rate each year. According to KEBS in 2014, the floriculture industry earned Kshs (Kenya Shillings) 54.6 billion.\n\nHCDA reported provisional statistics in 2015 that Kshs 62.9 billion was earned by the Kenyan cut flower industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "7264222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7264222", "title": "Lorenzo Borghese", "text": "Lorenzo Borghese\n\nLorenzo Borghese (; born June 9, 1972) is an Italian-American businessman, television personality, and member of the Borghese family. Besides being a cosmetics entrepreneur and animal advocate, Borghese was a bachelor on the ninth season of ABC's \"The Bachelor\".\n\nHe is the son of Prince Francesco Marco Luigi Costanzo Borghese (born 1938) and his American wife, Amanda Leigh, daughter of Douglas Leigh. Borghese's paternal grandmother was Princess Marcella Borghese, who founded the \"Borghese\" cosmetics line in 1958.\n\nBorghese was born on June 9, 1972, in Milan, Italy. Borghese's parents, Francesco and Amanda Borghese, have lived in Short Hills, New Jersey since 1979. He holds dual U.S./Italian citizenship. Raised in Short Hills, he attended elementary school there. He then graduated from Pomfret School in Pomfret, Connecticut, in 1991. In 1995, he graduated from Rollins College in Winter Park, Florida, where he was initiated into the Phi Delta Theta fraternity. \n\nHe earned an MBA degree from the Fordham Graduate School of Business in 2001.\n\nBorghese resides in New York City. He initiated the Royal Treatment line of products, a bath, body and skin care line for pets, using organic ingredients and fragrance oils from Italy, which can be found in hundreds of stores nationwide and on the television station HSN. He is a managing partner in LB2, LLC, a private-label Italian cosmetics company that sells numerous brands to major department stores and direct retail outlets. In 2014, he launched Rumgolf,\n\nHe has been honored with numerous awards for his animal advocacy work, including the Animal Advocacy Award presented to him in 2014 by Bideawee and the Pet Hero Humanitarian Award presented to him by the Pet Philanthropy Circle. Lorenzo was a bachelor contestant in an animal rescue fundraiser called Barks, Babes, and Brews in 2015 hosted by Salty Dog Paddle.\n\nIn the fall of 2006, Borghese starred in the ninth season of ABC's popular reality show \"The Bachelor\".\n\nIn the summer of 2009, Borghese announced he would be searching for his \"princess\" on a web reality show titled \"America's Next Princess\". The show was to coincide with the launch of Royal Pet Club, an online shopping destination for his Royal Treatment pet products. However, when the show debuted online on August 17, 2009, the series was actually revealed to be a spoof of celebrities and reality TV shows.\n\nIn August/September 2012, he appeared on the 10th season of \"Celebrity Big Brother UK\" and was evicted from the house on Day 22, ultimately finishing in 8th place.\n\nAlthough he is often attributed the title of Prince, the title is actually his father's who is currently the 17th Prince of Sant'Angelo and San Polo.\n\n"}
{"id": "40255811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40255811", "title": "Léopold Louis-Dreyfus", "text": "Léopold Louis-Dreyfus\n\nLéopold Louis-Dreyfus (5 March 1833 – 9 April 1915) was a French investor and businessman, founder of the Louis Dreyfus Group, and patriarch of the Louis-Dreyfus family.\n\nThe French government awarded him the title Commander of the Legion of Honour in 1912.\n\nHe was born Léopold Dreyfus to a Jewish family in Sierentz in Alsace in north-eastern France. His parents were Louis Lemlé Dreyfus (1798), a farmer, and Jeannette Victoire (\"née\" Hildenfinger; 1803–1837).\n\nAs a youth, the younger Dreyfus made frequent trips to nearby Basel, Switzerland, delivering grain for sale from the family farm. In 1851, he began trading wheat from neighbouring farms. He founded a company under his father's name, as he was too young to use his own. The younger Dreyfus later changed his surname to Louis-Dreyfus, but kept the company name without the hyphen.\n\nIn 1858, after rapid growth, he moved the company to Berne, Switzerland, where it expanded its operations throughout Europe by purchasing grain from the \"breadbaskets\" of Eastern Europe and transporting it to the hungry markets in Western Europe. In 1864, the company moved to Zurich, Switzerland and in 1872, after the Franco-Prussian War when France ceded Alsace to Germany, Louis Dreyfus chose French citizenship. He moved to the shipping port of Marseille and by 1875 had moved his company's headquarters to Paris.\n\nThe development of a transcontinental railroad in Europe combined with a more reliable shipping network and better access to market information – after the development of the telegraph and telephone – enabled the Louis Dreyfus Group to grow rapidly via arbitrage: the taking advantage of price differentials between locations. In 1883, the Louis Dreyfus Group was one of the first companies to engage in futures trading at the Liverpool Corn Trade Association, allowing it to both buy and sell commodities simultaneously. By 1900, the Louis Dreyfus Group was the world's largest grain trader.\n\nIn 1905, the Banque Louis-Dreyfus was founded to help finance the company's operations in grain markets. Thereafter, the company expanded internationally: in 1909, it opened an office in Duluth, Minnesota and began exporting durum wheat; in 1911, it started trading cotton in Brazil; and in 1913, it set up operations in Melbourne, Australia. In 1915, Léopold Louis-Dreyfus died turning over the family company to sons Louis and Charles.\n\nIn 1860, Léopold Louis-Dreyfus married Émilie Lang (29 January 1840 – 7 December 1918), daughter of Isaac Lang and Rosalie (\"née\" Aron) Lang. They had three sons: Louis Louis-Dreyfus (1867–1940), Charles Louis-Dreyfus (1870–1929), and Robert Louis-Dreyfus (1877–1907).\n\nBy the early 20th century, the Louis-Dreyfus family was described as one of the \"five great fortunes of France\".\n\nLouis-Dreyfus also served as Consul-General for the Kingdom of Romania in Paris. He was awarded the title of Commander of the Legion of Honour () on 19 April 1912.\n\nLéopold Louis-Dreyfus died in 1915 and was succeeded at the Louis Dreyfus Group by his sons Louis and Charles, who expanded the company in the Americas and in the Russian Empire (prior to the 1917 Revolution). In 2013, the Louis Dreyfus Group is considered to be one of the \"big four\" global food trading companies in the world competing with Archer Daniels Midland, Bunge Limited, and Cargill Inc.\n"}
{"id": "1010393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1010393", "title": "Macromanagement", "text": "Macromanagement\n\nMacromanagement is a management theory with two different approaches to the definition that both share a common idea; management from afar. \n\nContrary to micromanagement where managers closely observe and control the works of their employees, macromanagement is a more independent style of organizational management. Managers step back and give employees the freedom to do their job how they think it is best done, so long as the desired result is reached. This is the most commonly applied understanding of macromanagement. \n\nBoth styles of management are viewed as a negative when taken to an extreme, so it is important for organizations to develop a balance of micro- and macromanagement practices and understand when to apply which. \n\nThe second interpretation of macromanagement is when an organization views itself as a social institution, orienting its goals and purpose toward serving society. To do this, they align the organization’s values, norms, ethics with those of the society they are immersed in. In 1971, Alan Wells defined a social institution as “patterns of rules, customs, norms, beliefs and roles that are instrumentally related to the needs and purposes of society.” Other examples of social institutions in this respect include government and religious organizations, some more in-line with serving society that others. \n\nThis interpretation of macromanagement is less about managing employees, but rather managing the organization from a broader perspective that is oriented toward the future. An organization that practices macromanagement greatly considers the future of the organization, the future of society, and their impact on one another.\n\n\n1. McFarland, Dalton E.(1977). \"Management, Humanism, and Society: The Case for Macromanagement Theory.\" Academy of Management. Retrieved 20 October 2017.\n"}
{"id": "599152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599152", "title": "Managed float regime", "text": "Managed float regime\n\nManaged float regime is the current international financial environment in which exchange rates fluctuate from day to day, but central banks attempt to influence their countries' exchange rates by buying and selling currencies to maintain a certain range. The peg used is known as a crawling peg.\n\nIn an increasingly integrated world economy, the currency rates impact any given country's economy through the trade balance. In this aspect, almost all currencies are \"managed\" since central banks or governments intervene to influence the value of their currencies. According to the International Monetary Fund, as of 2014, 82 countries and regions used a managed float, or 43% of all countries, constituting a plurality amongst exchange rate regime types.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19787057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19787057", "title": "Manthos and Georgios Rizaris", "text": "Manthos and Georgios Rizaris\n\nManthos Rizaris (, 1764–1824) and Georgios Rizaris (, 1769–1842) were Greek benefactors, merchants and members of the organization Filiki Eteria.\n\nRizari brothers were born in the village of Monodendri of Zagori region (Epirus). They lost both parents at an early age. Manthos Rizaris, the elder brother, moved to Moscow, in order to work in his uncle’s trading business. At 1806 Georgios followed. They got involved in trade and made a fortune.\n\nAt 1817 Manthos became member of Filiki Eteria, and supported financially with huge amounts of money the Greek Revolution: a total donation of over 50.000 Russian rubles was offered for the Revolution’s objectives. Manthos, died at 1824 in Russia.\n\nBoth brothers supported the independence of Greece . With their financial aid helped: the poor, the orphans, the ones that suffered because of the armed conflicts that took place during this period. After Manthos’ death, Georgios moved to Odessa, and continued his business there. He found in his home place (Monodendri) the \"School of Greek Courses\" (Greek: Σχολή των Ελληνικών Μαθημάτων). Many orphans were awarded with full scholarships, including full coverage of their living costs.\n\nAt 1837 George Rizaris settled in Athens, his goal was to found a Religious Institution in the newly formed Greek state that would prepare educated priests. At 1843 after his death, the Hieratical school has started to function. In gratitude for their contribution, the school, was named: Rizarios Hieratical School. The school continues to function as a religious and educational institution today and it is based in Halandri, Athens.\n\nMoreover, they have founded a number of schools in their home place Monodendri and in Epirus region.\nTheir bequests continue to offer to Greek education and Greek Orthodox church.\n\n"}
{"id": "47374404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47374404", "title": "Marat Manafov", "text": "Marat Manafov\n\nMarat Manaf oglu Manafov was an Azerbaijani businessman and lawyer who disappeared in Bratislava, Slovakia, in 1999. He was described as the \"right-hand man\" of Azeri president Heydar Aliyev and was a negotiator for contracts in Azerbaijan's petroleum market.\n\nManafov was born in Stepanakert/Khankendi, capital of the Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast. His family moved to Baku in 1960.\n\nHe studied geology at State University, then moved to the Arctic to work, where he finished his degree by correspondence. He then returned to school to study law in the Siberian city of Tyumen, which has a prominent oil and gas industry.\n\nHe soon gained prominence and wealth as an attorney. He moved to Paris for three years, and then to Bratislava, Slovakia.\n\nIn the early 1990s, he began an import-export business in Slovakia, that had an emphasis on oil, particularly from Azerbaijan and Tyumen.\n\nManafov became a close confidant of Azeri president Heydar Aliyev, and was described as his \"right-hand man.\"\n\nIn 1993, Manafov was appointed by the newly independent Azerbaijani government to negotiate business deals for Azerbaijan's booming oil industry. Manafov led the government team controlling what became known as the \"Contract of the Century\" that opened up Azerbaijan's vast oil reserves to the west. According to journalist Steve LeVine, Manatov \"shook up meetings by pointing a pistol at Western oil executives.\" During a meeting with British, Canadian and U.S. oil executives, in which everyone pulled out their business cards, Manafov pulled out a 9mm pistol and placed it on the table. He was later accused of pointing the gun at executives from Pennzoil and BP, LeVine writes. Manafov claimed he was being followed, which the executives denied. Manafov, who also claimed his accounts had been frozen and his cell phone cut off, stated he had been offered a bribe to cut Pennzoil out of the negotiations. However, executive Tom Doss from Amoco later discovered his company had indeed paid someone to follow Manafov.\n\nManafov was later accused of demanding $360 million in bribes from oil executives, which he claimed would go to Aliyev. He ultimately was expelled from Azerbaijan. In late 1999, he disappeared in Bratislava, Slovakia, after making allegations about \"the secret dealings of the Aliyev family with oil companies,\" according to an exposé in \"The Sunday Times\". Police stated they were investigating whether he was abducted or killed.\n\nHe had five brothers, one of whom is noted actor Fakhraddin Manafov.\n\n"}
{"id": "48590036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48590036", "title": "Newton Glassman", "text": "Newton Glassman\n\nNewton Glassman is the founder and managing partner of Catalyst Capital Group, the second largest private equity firm in Canada. \n\nGlassman received an undergraduate and law degree at the University of Toronto. He then attended business school at Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, and graduated with an MBA in 1990. After graduating he joined Canadian Corporate Funding Ltd., then one of Canada's leading private equity firms. He later joined Cerberus Capital Management.\n\nGlassman founded Catalyst Capital Group in 2002 along with Gabriel de Alba. The firm specializes in purchasing distressed assets and corporate restructurings. Catalyst has been involved in deals involving Gateway Casinos, Canwest, and Mobilicity. By 2014, the firm was Canada's second largest private equity firm. In 2015, Glassman was involved in a feud with Greg Boland over a negative research report about Callidus Capital Corp, which Glassman's firm held a controlling stake in. The two firms were in litigation after Boland's first West Face Capital Inc. hired an analyst from Catalyst.\n\nGlassman developed a reputation as being publicity shy and \"combative\" in financial circles. He has been called a \"pit bull negotiator.\"\n\nGlassman donated $2.5 million to the University of Western Ontario's faculty of law as part of a $10 million plan to fund programs on insolvency and restructuring.\n\nCatalyst Capital Group\n"}
{"id": "4769771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4769771", "title": "Patriot Act, Title III, Subtitle A", "text": "Patriot Act, Title III, Subtitle A\n\nThe USA PATRIOT Act was passed by the United States Congress in 2001 as a response to the September 11, 2001 attacks. It has ten titles, with the third title (\"Title III: International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001\") written to prevent, detect, and prosecute international money laundering and the financing of terrorism.\n\nTitle III is itself divided into three subtitles. The first subtitle, entitled Subtitle A: International Counter Money Laundering and Related Measures, is designed to put measures into place that counter international money laundering. It does this by requiring that financial institutions take several new special measures against money laundering — identification is dealt with particularly; by restricting or prohibiting the use of certain types of bank accounts; through adding further legislation that regulates a financial institution's dealing with foreign concerns; by adding new penalties for non-compliance of the law; and through regulations that are designed to facilitate and encourage reporting and communication between financial institutions and the U.S. government.\n\nA new section was added to Title 31, subchapter IV, chapter 53, subchapter II (\"Records and reports on monetary instruments transactions\") of the U.S. Code. The section was 5318A, entitled \"Special measures for jurisdictions, financial institutions, or international transactions of primary money laundering concern\". It specifies that financial institutions or financial agencies may be required to take special measures when so directed by the United States Secretary of the Treasury. Any such order by the United States Treasury, with the exception of orders that require additional record keeping or reporting for any transaction over an amount greater than the Secretary describes, is issued with a notice of rule making regarding the special measure. Orders may not remain in effect for more than 120 days, though any ruling may be extended by the Treasury.\n\nWhen the Secretary of Treasury orders special measures, that person must first consult with the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, any other appropriate Federal banking agency (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act), the Secretary of State, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the National Credit Union Administration Board and any other relevant parties the Secretary of Treasury decides to call on. The special measures must take into account whether similar actions were taken by other nations and multilateral groups; whether the measure will cause any competitive disadvantage for U.S. financial organizations; how the timing or impact of the decision will affect legitimate business activities; and what effect the action would have on U.S. national security and foreign policy.\n\nThe special measures must be undertaken for all transactions that are made outside the U.S. in areas where money-laundering has been identified as a concern. The measures involve:\n\nThe section also details what is considered a \"primary money-laundering concern\". The Secretary of Treasury ultimately makes the decision on such areas in consultation with Secretary of State and the Attorney General. Several jurisdictional factors must be taken into account, including:\nThe Secretary of Treasury also considers whether financial institutions facilitate or promote money laundering, balanced against the extent to which they perform and promote legitimate business activities. He or she must also decide whether the financial institutions is undertaking any of the special measures specified above when considering whether the jurisdiction, financial institutions, types of accounts, or transactions are or are not primarily a money laundering concern.\n\nExtra due diligence requirements were added to . Each financial institution that has a correspondent bank account held and managed on behalf of a non-U.S. person must enable (or in some cases enhance) their due diligence policies, procedures and controls to detect and report instances of money laundering. The due diligence requirements focus on identifying the direct and indirect (beneficial) owners of the accounts.\n\nFinancial institutions must now undertake steps to identify the owners of any non-U.S. bank that is not publicly listed, along with the interests of each of the owners in the bank. It is expected that additional scrutiny will be applied by the U.S. institution to such banks to make sure they are not engaging in money laundering. Reasonable efforts must be undertaken to determine whether the non-U.S. bank provides correspondent bank accounts to other foreign banks and, if it is discovered they do, the U.S. financial institution is expected to try to identify the foreign banks the non-U.S. bank deals with.\n\nSimilarly, U.S. financial institutions must also identify the nominal and beneficial owners of any private bank account opened and maintained in the U.S. by non-U.S. citizens. The institution must undertake enhanced scrutiny of the account if it is owned by, or is being maintained on behalf of, any senior political figure where there is reasonable suspicion of corruption. A \"private bank account\" is defined as any account that has over $US1 million deposited by one or more people who have a direct or beneficial ownership of the account. Further, the account must be administered in whole or in part by an employee, officer or agent of a financial institution, and who acts as a liaison between the institution and the owners of the account.\n\n was amended to prohibit U.S. financial institutions from establishing, maintaining, administering, or managing a correspondent account in the U.S. for, or on behalf of, a foreign bank that does not have a physical presence in any country (otherwise known as a shell bank). U.S. financial institutions must also take steps to prevent the indirect servicing of a foreign shell bank by allowing a correspondent account to be established and maintained by another foreign bank who acts on behalf of that foreign shell bank. However, exceptions are made if the shell bank is an affiliate (under the control) of a bank that has a physical presence in the U.S. or if the foreign shell bank is subject to supervision by a banking authority in the non-U.S. country regulating the affiliated depository institution, credit union, or foreign bank.\n\nIn order to foster improved communication between financial institutions, the regulators of the financial institutions and law enforcement authorities the U.S. Treasury secretary was directed to create regulations within 120 days after the enactment of the Patriot Act that set out how information was to be shared. The aim of the act was more to encourage law enforcement authorities and financial regulation agencies to share the information they had on foreign individuals or organisations engaged in terrorism. Due to the complex nature of the task on February 26, 2002 the U.S. Treasury initially put together a proposed rule to amend the Code of Federal Regulations, and then on March 14, 2002 they released 31 CFR 103.100 which was entitled \"Special Information Sharing Procedures To Deter Money Laundering and Terrorist Activity\".\n\nThe regulation allows FinCEN to solicit, on behalf of a Federal law enforcement agency, information from a financial institution or group of financial institutions. In order to gain such information, a law enforcement agency must provide a certificate which shows who is the target of the information request — the regulation states that enough information must be provided to the institution to allow them to distinguish between common or similar names — and a contact person from the agency who knows about the request. The financial institution must then expeditiously search records for information that satisfies the request, though at any time the institution can contact the law enforcement agency to clarify the scope or terms of the request. The information that an agency must disclose is:\nAfter identifying the account asked for by FinCEN, the financial institution must provide a report back to FinCEN with:\n\nThe regulation specifically prohibits the financial institution from using information provided by FinCEN to do anything other than report information back to FinCEN, make a determination whether to do business with the named suspect or suspects, or to help them comply with an order given under the regulation. Furthermore, the financial institution may not disclose that FinCEN made a request for or obtained information to anyone other than FinCEN or to the Federal agency who was using FinCEN to gather information about the suspects. Under the regulation, financial institutions are expected to maintain appropriate security to keep such information confidential in order to satisfy the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.\n\nThe section also allows financial institutions to share information with other financial institutions when so allowed by the Secretary of Treasury, and they are now legally immune from prosecution if they gather or share information relating to terrorism or financial money-laundering in order to identify and report such activities. The section also gives immunity against breaches of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act to any organisation who undertakes actions to comply with this section.\n\nFinally, the section directs the Secretary of Treasury to produce a report semiannually to the financial services industry \"containing a detailed analysis identifying patterns of suspicious activity and other investigative insights derived from suspicious activity reports and investigations conducted by Federal, State, and local law enforcement agencies\". This report must be distributed to every financial institution in the United States.\n\nSection 1956(c)(7) of title 18 of the U.S. Code was amended to further include specific acts of unlawful activity in relation to money laundering. Unlawful acts include:\n\nThis section allows the incorrect seizure of the assets of those suspected to be international terrorist to be contested. The contesting party can file a claim under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and can either assert as an affirmative defense that their property was seized improperly or plead an innocent owner defense. The act also states that:\n\nHowever, this clause does not deny a property owner of their right to contest the confiscation of assets that are suspected to be owned by international terrorists under the Fourth Amendment of the United States Constitution or under the Administrative Procedures Act. It also does not limit the remedies available to property owners defined under the civil forfeiture laws defined in the U.S. Code.\n\nThe section also made a technical amendment to the General Rules for Civil Forfeiture Proceedings by amending the definition of the term \"civil forfeiture statute\" to exclude the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA).\n\nSection 1956 of title 18 was amended in several ways. U.S. district courts are now given jurisdiction over any foreign person or financial institution where action is undertaken to prosecute them under the Federal Rules of Civil Procedures or under the laws of the country in which the foreigner is found. Offenses where the District court can have jurisdiction are in cases where that person commits an offense that involves money laundering under ; in cases where that person converts property that a U.S. court has seized; or where the foreigner is a financial institution that maintains a bank account at a U.S. financial institution.\n\nThe amendment gives the court the power to freeze bank accounts and property so they can satisfy a judgement under 18 USC § 1956. The courts may appoint a Federal Receiver to seize or control all assets of a defendant in order to satisfy a judgement of the court. The judgement may be a civil judgement about money laundering; the civil or criminal forfeiture of assets; or made against those who act as a fence. The Federal Receiver is appointed by the court after an application is made by a Federal prosecutor or Federal or State regulator, and they must be an officer of the court. The Federal Receiver is governed by and is able to gain the same information about a defendants assets from FinCen, the Department of Treasury or a foreign government (where a treaty or other agreement is in place with the U.S. government) as a Federal prosecutor.\n\nThis section expanded the definition of a financial institution to be any foreign bank, as defined in section 1 of the International Banking Act of 1978.\n\nSection 319 deals with the forfeiture of funds in Interbank accounts and the ability of Federal banking agencies to subpoena bank records or summons banking staff in order to gain access to bank records. It also gave U.S. courts the authority to order convicted criminal to return property located abroad. Paragraph (c) allowed a (since expired) grace period of 60 days from the enactment of the Act with which financial institutions were required to comply with the provisions of .\n\nAny deposits into foreign banks are considered to be deposited into any Interbank account the foreign bank may have in the U.S., and thus any restraining order, seizure warrant or arrest warrant may be made against the funds in the Interbank account held at a U.S. financial institution, up to the amount deposited in the account at the foreign bank. Provisions were made to allow the Attorney General to suspend or stop such a forfeiture if the Attorney General determines that a conflict of law exists between the laws of the foreign country in which the foreign bank resides in and with the laws of the U.S.. The Attorney General must also decide whether halting such a forfeiture would be in the interest of justice and that it would not harm the national interests of the U.S. The funds that are forfeited in the Interbank account can be contested by the foreign bank under the general rules of civil forfeiture proceedings. The U.S. government does not need to show that the funds being forfeited are directly traceable to the funds deposited at the foreign bank and the government is also not required to apply , which deals with the civil forfeiture of fungible property.\n\nSection 319 requires a financial institution to respond to a request for information from a Federal banking agency within 120 hours of the receipt of the request. Federal banking agencies can request information relating to any money-laundering activities — financial institutions must provide documentation for any account opened, maintained, administered or managed by the institution in the U.S. A summons or subpoena may be issued to any representative of a foreign bank that as a corresponding account in the U.S. — they may be required to include records (even those maintained outside the U.S.) that relate to the deposit of funds into the foreign bank. The summons may be issued to a bank with a representative in the U.S. or in foreign countries where the U.S. has a mutual legal assistance treat, a multilateral agreement or where the U.S. can expect that they will respond to a request for international law enforcement assistance. Foreign banks who maintain corresponding accounts must maintain records in the U.S. that will identify the owners' real names and addresses. The banks must be able to provide this information within 7 days of receipt of the request. It is also a requirement that when so ordered by the Attorney General or the Secretary of Treasury (they must consult each other first) the financial institution must terminate any corresponding accounts within 10 days. Corresponding accounts can be ordered to be closed if the foreign bank fails to comply with a summons or subpoena (see above), or has failed to legally contest the summons in the U.S. A financial institution is further protected from liability if they terminate a corresponding relationship in accordance with the section, and in fact the financial institution faces penalties of $US10,000 for each day the account remains open after the 10-day limit has expired.\n\nThe U.S. Code was amended by section 319 to allow a court to order a convicted criminal to return property that is located abroad. If that property cannot be located, has been transferred or sole, is placed beyond the jurisdiction of the court, is substantially reduced in value, or has been comingled with other property in such a way that it cannot be divided without difficulty then the court may order that property be forfeited in substitution of the property that must be returned. The court can also order that any property beyond the jurisdiction of the court must be returned to the jurisdiction of the court.\n\nIf a defendant enters into a pretrial restraint order to stop goods from being seized, then the defendant may be required to deposit the property either into the registry of the court, with the United States Marshals Service, or with the U.S. Secretary of Treasury in an interest-bearing account. If the defendant refuses the law states that they will be charged with contempt of court and their final sentence may be enhanced under the obstruction of justice provision of the Federal Sentencing Guidelines.\n\nThe U.S. Code was amended to allow the forfeiture of any property within the jurisdiction of the United States that was gained as the result of an offense against a foreign nation that involves the manufacture, importation, sale, or distribution of a controlled substance.\n\nSubchapter II of Chapter 53 of Title 31, United States Code requires certain reports or records from various financial institutions where they have a high degree of usefulness in criminal, tax, or regulatory investigations or proceedings, or in the conduct of intelligence or counterintelligence activities, including analysis, to protect against international terrorism. Section 321 of the USA PATRIOT Act included credit unions, Futures commission merchants, commodity trading advisors and commodity pool operators in its definition of a financial institution. It also defined in all legislation that the term \"Federal functional regulator\" includes the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC).\n\nThe U.S. Code was amended to disallow a corporation whose majority shareholder or owner is a fugitive from mounting an innocent owner defense to contest the forfeiture of property by authorities.\n\nThe U.S. Code defines the means by which a foreign nation may seek to have a forfeiture or judgement notification enforced by a district court of the United States. This was amended under section 323 by adding a new paragraph that specifies how the U.S. government may apply for a restraining order to preserve the availability of property which is subject to a foreign forfeiture or confiscation judgement. In evaluating whether to issue the restraining order, the court may rely on information provided in an affidavit which describes the overseas investigation that is underway and why the property in question should be restrained. The U.S. court may also register and enforce a restraining order that has already been issued by a foreign court and which is certified by the Attorney General. Any objections to the restraining order must not include any made on grounds that are part of any parallel foreign litigation over the same property.\n\nSection 323 places a large emphasis on the ability of a foreign court to follow due process when considering an application for a forfeiture or confiscation judgement to be registered and enforced in the U.S. The definition of \"forfeiture and confiscation\" is defined to mean a final order of a foreign nation which compels a person or entity to pay money for \"any violation of foreign law that would constitute a violation or an offense for which property could be forfeited under Federal law if the offense were committed in the United States\".\n\nProvisions were made to allow the Secretary of Treasury and various other agencies (including the Attorney General, the Federal banking agencies as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the National Credit Union Administration Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission) the ability to evaluate the operations of the provisions of title III and make recommendations to Congress. These were to be made within 30 months of the enactment of the Act.\n\nA concentration account is a single account used for the internal purposes of a financial institution to facilitate the processing and settlement of multiple or individual customer transactions within the bank, usually on the same day. Such accounts can lead to the concealment by financial institutions transactions made by customers, however section 325 bans their use for such purposes by prohibiting financial institutions from allowing clients to direct transactions that move their funds into, out of, or through the concentration accounts of the financial institution. Financial institutions are also prohibited from informing clients about the existence of such accounts and disallows any disclosure that may give customer a way of identifying such accounts that the financial institution may use. The section also requires that financial institutions document and follow methods of identifying where the funds are for each customer in a concentration account that commingles funds belonging to one or more customers.\n\nThe Secretary of the Treasury was given the task of prescribing regulations that set forth the minimum standards that financial institutions must undertake to verify the identity of customers who open accounts. The rules implementing section 326 became effective on June 9, 2003, although financial institutions had until October 1, 2003 to\ncome into compliance. The minimum requirements under the section require financial institutions to establish procedures to take reasonable and practicable measures to verify the identity of those applying for an account with the institution; maintain records of the information used to verify a person's identity, including name, address, and other identifying information; and to consult lists of known or suspected terrorists or terrorist organizations provided to the financial institution by any government agency to determine whether a person seeking to open an account appears on any such list. When prescribing the regulations, the Secretary was ordered to take into account the types of accounts available to financial institutions, the various methods someone can use to open accounts, and the various types of identifying information available to the institutions.\n\nUnder the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, banks and other financial institutions are restricted from carrying out activities that do not relate to financial activities. In these cases, the regulations must be prescribed jointly by the Secretary and each Federal functional regulator appropriate for such financial institution. The Secretary also has the power to exempt such institutions from the regulations proscribed under section 326.\n\nThe section also required a report with 6 months of the enactment of the Patriot Act from the Secretary of Treasury in consultation with Federal functional regulators as defined in the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. As such, on July 23, 2002 the Department of Treasury, FinCEN, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Commission (FDIC), the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) and the National Credit Union Association (NCUA) jointly released a joint notice of rule-making in the Federal Register for banks, and Treasury simultaneously released an identical notice in the Federal Register for credit unions, private banks and trust companies who did not have a functional regulator. After a considerable response, alterations to the proposed rule making were made and Treasury and the Federal functional agencies released 31 CFR 103.121. The regulation sets out the minimum requirements for setting up a Customer Identification Program (CIP). These requirements for the CIP are that it must:\nThe regulation allows any Federal regulator, in concurrence with the Secretary of Treasury, to exempt a bank or type of account from the regulations given.\n\nThe Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 makes it unlawful, except with prior approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, for a bank to take any action that makes another company into a bank holding company or subsidiary of one; for a bank holding company to acquire direct or indirect shares of more than 5% of a bank; for bank holding companies to acquire all or most of the assets of a bank; and in most circumstances for a bank holding company to merge or consolidate with another bank holding company. Section 327 amends the Act to make the Board take into consideration the effectiveness of the company or companies in combatting money laundering activities, including in overseas branches.\n\nThe Federal Deposit Insurance Act prevents the merger of insured depository institutions with non-insured depository institutions without the written approval of a responsible agency. The Act was amended by section 327 to take into consideration the effectiveness of any insured depository institution involved in the proposed merger transaction in combatting money laundering activities, including in overseas branches, when approving such mergers.\n\nBoth of the amendments only apply to applications submitted to either the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or responsible agency after December 31, 2001, and which were not approved by the Board or responsible agency before the date of enactment of the Patriot Act.\n\nThe Secretary of the Treasury must take all reasonable steps to encourage foreign governments to require the inclusion of the name of the originator in wire transfer instructions sent to the United States and other countries, with the information to remain with the transfer from its origination until the point of disbursement. They must also report annually to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate on the progress Treasury is making on this issue and what is impeding progress of implementing the wire transfer identification scheme.\n\nAn official or employee of the government who acts corruptly — as well as the person who induces the corrupt act — by being influenced for any official act, who is influenced to allow or collude with any fraudulent act, or who is induced to take or not take some action which is in violation of the person's official duties will be fined by an amount that is not more than three times the monetary equivalent of the bribe in question. Alternatively they may be imprisoned for not more than 15 years, or they may be fined and imprisoned. All violations are subject to chapter 227 of title 18, United States Code, and the provisions of the United States Sentencing Guidelines.\n\nThis section details that the sense of Congress is to encourage international cooperation in investigations of money laundering, financial crimes, and the finances of terrorist groups. The sense is that the U.S. President should direct the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, or the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate, and in consultation with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to seek to enter into negotiations with the appropriate financial supervisory agencies and other officials of any foreign country who do business with the U.S.. Congress's purpose is to ensure that foreign banks and other financial institutions maintain adequate records of transaction and account information relating to any foreign terrorist organization, any person who is a member or representative of any such organization, or any person engaged in money laundering or financial or other crimes and establish a mechanism whereby, when appropriate, these records may be made available to United States law enforcement officials and domestic financial institution supervisors.\n"}
{"id": "404122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=404122", "title": "Pirates of Silicon Valley", "text": "Pirates of Silicon Valley\n\nPirates of Silicon Valley is an original 1999 American made for television biographical drama film, directed by Martyn Burke and starring Noah Wyle as Steve Jobs and Anthony Michael Hall as Bill Gates. Spanning the years 1971–1997 and based on Paul Freiberger and Michael Swaine's 1984 book \"Fire in the Valley: The Making of the Personal Computer, \"it explores the impact of the rivalry between Jobs (Apple Computer) and Gates (Microsoft) on the development of the personal computer.\n\nSteve Jobs (Noah Wyle) is speaking with director Ridley Scott (J. G. Hertzler), about the creation of the 1984 commercial for , which introduced the first Macintosh. Jobs is trying to convey his idea that \"We're creating a completely new consciousness.\" Scott is more concerned with the technical aspects of the commercial.\n\nNext in 1997 with Jobs, , and announcing a new deal with Microsoft at the 1997 Macworld Expo. His partner, Steve Wozniak or \"WOZ\" (Joey Slotnick), is introduced as one of the two central narrators of the story. Wozniak notes to the audience the resemblance between Big Brother and the image of Bill Gates (Anthony Michael Hall) on the screen behind Jobs during this announcement. Asking how they \"got from there to here,\" the film turns to flashbacks of his youth with Jobs, prior to the forming of Apple.\n\nThe earliest flashback is in 1971 and takes place on the U.C. Berkeley campus during the period of the student anti-war movements. Teenagers Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak are shown caught on the campus during a riot between students and police. They flee and after finding safety, Jobs states to Wozniak, \"Those guys think they're revolutionaries. They're not revolutionaries, we are.\" Wozniak then comments that \"Steve was never like you or me. He always saw things differently. Even when I was in Berkeley, I would see something and just see kilobytes or circuit boards while he'd see karma or the meaning of the universe.\"\n\nUsing a similar structure, the film next turns to a young Bill Gates (Anthony Michael Hall) at Harvard University, in the early 1970s, with classmate Steve Ballmer (John DiMaggio), and Gates’ high school friend Paul Allen (Josh Hopkins). As with Wozniak in the earlier segment, Ballmer narrates Gates' story, particularly the moment when Gates discovers the existence of Ed Roberts's MITS Altair causing him to drop out of Harvard. Gates' and Allen's early work with MITS is juxtaposed against the involvement of Jobs and Wozniak with the \"Homebrew Computer Club\". Jobs and Woz develop Apple Computer in the garage of Jobs' family home, with the help of Daniel (Marcus Giamatti) and Elizabeth (Melissa McBride). Eventually Mike Markkula (Jeffrey Nordling) invests in the company which allows it to expand and move forward. In 1977, Jobs, Woz, and Markkula demo the Apple II at the West Coast Computer Faire. This event is followed by the development of the IBM-PC with the help of Gates and Microsoft in 1981.\n\nThe film also follows Jobs' relationship with his high school girlfriend and early Apple employee, Arlene (a pseudonym for Chrisann Brennan, portrayed by Gema Zamprogna), and the difficulties he had acknowledging the birth and existence of their daughter, Lisa. Around the time his daughter was born, Jobs unveiled his next computer, which he named, The Lisa. The Lisa was then followed in 1984 by the (Macintosh), a computer inspired by the Xerox Alto. The main body of the film finally concludes with a 30th birthday toast in 1985 to Steve Jobs shortly before by CEO John Sculley (Allan Royal), from Apple Inc.\n\nThe film ends in 1997, with 42 year old Jobs' return to Apple (after its acquisition of NeXT Computer) and with his announcement at the MacWorld Expo of an alliance between Apple and Microsoft. It also indicates that Jobs is now married, has children, and has reconciled with Lisa.\n\n\nBurke notes that when he was shown the first draft of the screenplay, which is based upon Freiberger and Swaine's \"Fire in the Valley,\" \"It was all about how the ‘286 computer’ became the ‘386’ and so on ... I was bored by it.\" After the studio asked him for suggestions Burke states that \"I’m a great believer in Shakespeare, and what we had was a modern equivalent of Hamlet, featuring two young princes, Bill Gates and Steve Jobs ... the more I read about Steve in particular, the more I saw him in those Shakespearean terms. He was brilliant, volcanic, obsessive, suspicious, even vicious in a business sense. He was about conquest, always conquest. I said, ‘That’s the sort of movie I want to make.\" Burke was thus hired as director of the project and rewrote the screenplay. In developing the characters themselves, Burke also stated that he chose not to speak with any of the central figures portrayed in the film:\n\nBurke sought Noah Wyle for the part of Jobs. Wyle originally turned down the role, but changed his mind after Burke had him watch the 1996 documentary, \"Triumph of the Nerds\". Wyle states that he watched the documentary \"for ten seconds and knew I'd kick myself for the rest of my life if I didn't play this part.\" He also noted that \"Triumph of the Nerds\" led him to be \"taken by [Jobs'] presence, his confidence, smugness, smartness, ego, and his story's trajectory. He seemed to be the most Shakespearean figure in American culture in the last 50 years I could think of – the rise of, the fall of, and the return of. The truest definition of a tragic hero—but you get the 'bonus round' that F. Scott Fitzgerald said didn't exist. Jobs has had one hell of a second act.\" Burke later credited Wyle for the success of the film stating that, \"whatever was in the air, [Wyle] just absorbed i ... he became Jobs. It was a remarkable transformation. We had a photo of Steve Jobs at about 28 years old, from the cover of Fortune magazine. We did a mockup with Noah and it was almost impossible to tell them apart.\" Burke also credits Joey Slotnick's interpretation of Steve Wozniak (who was so impressed that he flew to Los Angeles to have lunch with Slotnick) with Wozniak's enthusiasm for the film. He notes that, \"Steve Wozniak made several speeches in which he said that the film accurately portrays how things actually happened,\" Burke says. \"To me that was better than any awards or nominations the film could get.\"\n\nAnthony Michael Hall, who was cast as Bill Gates, commented on his interest in the role, stating that he, \"really fought for this part because I knew it would be the role of a lifetime ... it was a thrill and a daunting challenge to play someone of his stature and brilliance.\"\n\n\"Pirates of Silicon Valley\" was originally scheduled to be shot in Toronto, Ontario in Canada, with over $1 million in sets. However, when Wyle was not able to receive a long enough release from ER (TV series) to shoot in Canada, the film temporarily shut down. Filming began again later in Los Angeles. During the filming, the cast broke down into PC and Mac factions, arguing over the merits of each platform. Burke states that he began the film as a PC user and ended a Mac user.\n\nOne of the central thematic aspects of the screenplay is the representation of a young Steve Jobs, who while participating in aspects of the 1960s counterculture, interprets his role in it differently. Actor Noah Wyle, who portrays Jobs, stated in an interview with CNN, \"These kids grew up 30 miles south of the (University of California) Berkeley campus, which was ripe with revolution [...] and they couldn't have cared less about the politics going on. They were in the garage tinkering with their electronics and starting a revolution that was a thousand times greater than anything that was going on the college campuses, politically.\" Director Martyn Burke also noted in an interview that, \"Steve Jobs and Bill Gates are the true revolutionaries of our time. Not the students who occupied the dean’s office in the late ’60s. Not the anti-war marchers who were determined to overthrow the establishment. Jobs and Gates are the ones who changed the way the world thinks, acts and communicates.\"\n\nThe soundtrack is made up of classic rock, disco and new wave from the 1960s, 1970s, and early 1980s.\n\nOn the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 90% based on 10 reviews, with an average rating of 7.2/10. \nRay Richmond of \"Variety\" states that it is \"a brilliant piece of filmmaking\" and \"a wildly entertaining geek tragedy with the stylistic feel of true art.\" \nJohn Leonard of \"New York Magazine\", refers to \"Pirates of Silicon Valley a\"s \"a hoot.\" \nRob Owen of the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" argues that the film is \"a fascinating drama filled with Shakespearean twists and betrayals as viewers come to know the geniuses who transformed not only the way we communicate, but the way we live.\" \nBrian J. Dillard of \"AllMovie\" argues that \"thanks to inspired casting and strong writing, this well-oiled TV biopic managed to transform the unglamorous genesis of the personal-computer industry into solid entertainment precisely at the moment when dot-com mania was sweeping the nation.\" \nMike Lipton of \"People\", found the film to be \"engagingly irreverent\" and \"a real-life \"Revenge of the Nerds\" [that] stands cheekily on its own.\"\n\nSteve Jobs, Bill Gates, and Steve Wozniak, all responded to the film. Jobs' only public response occurred at the 1999 Macworld Expo. After \"Pirates of Silicon Valley\" had aired, Jobs contacted Noah Wyle and told him that while he \"hated\" both the film and the screenplay, he liked Wyle's performance, noting \"you do look like me.\" Jobs then invited Wyle to the 1999 Macworld convention to play a prank on the audience. Wyle agreed and initially appeared as Jobs, until Jobs walked onto the stage and let the audience in on the joke. In contrast, Jobs avoided meeting the director Martyn Burke, who later said that \"Steve wanted nothing to do with me.\"\n\nIn a 2013 \"Ask Me Anything\" session with Reddit, Gates responded to a question about his portrayal in the film by stating that it was \"reasonably accurate.\"\n\nWozniak had a positive response to the film and discussed it in detail with fans on his official website, \"woz.org\". Wozniak felt that many aspects of the film were accurate, stating in an interview that \"when the movie opened with [a scene of] tear gas and riots [...] I thought, 'My God! That's just how it was.' He also responded to a fan email, that part of his portrayal was inaccurate: \"I never quit Apple. That suggestion was based on an incorrect Wall Street Journal that said I was leaving Apple because I didn't like things there. Actually, I had told the Wall Street Journal writer that I wasn't leaving Apple because of things that I didn't like and that I wasn't even leaving, keeping my small salary forever as a loyal employee. I just wanted a small startup experience and a chance to design a smaller product again, a universal remote control.\" In May 2015, Wozniak once again commented on the film, stating that \"Pirates of Silicon Valley\" is an example of a good Hollywood dramatization of himself, Steve Jobs, and the story of Apple Inc. He described \"Pirates of Silicon Valley\" as \"intriguing, interesting. I loved watching it [...] every one of those incidences occurred and it occurred with the meaning that was shown\" in the film.\n\nJobs' college friend and early Apple employee Daniel Kottke also liked the film. He noted in an interview that it was \"a great movie. Noah Wyle was just uncannily close to Jobs. Just unbelievable. I found myself thinking it was actually Steve on the screen.\" He also states that in the film there were \"all these scenes of the garage where it’s like half a dozen people working, busily carrying things back and forth, and oscilloscopes\" when he [Kottke] \"was really the only person who worked in the garage. Woz would show up once a week with his latest to test it out, and Steve Jobs was on the phone a lot in the kitchen.\"\n\nTwo individuals have responded to the film's interpretation of Jobs' 1979 visit to the Xerox PARC research center (which influenced the development of both \"The Lisa\" and \"The Mac\"). PARC's director, John Seely Brown stated in a 2006 interview that the scene in which Gates and Jobs argue about the role of Xerox is not entirely accurate. He said that Jobs was invited by PARC to view their technology in exchange for the ability to buy pre-IPO Apple stock. Wozniak also said (in response to a question about that scene from a fan (via email) that, \"Apple worked with Xerox openly to bring their developments to a mass audience. That's what Steve portrayed Apple as being good at. Xerox got a lot of Apple stock for it too, it was an agreement. Microsoft just took it from Xerox or Apple or whomever. It took them a long time to get it halfway right.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24066379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24066379", "title": "Planka.nu", "text": "Planka.nu\n\nPlanka.nu is a network of organizations in Sweden and Norway promoting tax-financed zero-fare public transport with chapters in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Skåne, Östergötland and Oslo. Planka.nu was founded in 2001 by the Swedish Anarcho-syndicalist Youth Federation in response to the increasingly expensive ticket prices in the public transport system in Stockholm. The campaign has received much attention because of the controversial methods used to promote free public transport: Planka.nu encourage people to fare-dodge in the public transport,\n\nIn 2001, the Stockholm chapter of the Swedish Anarcho-syndicalist Youth Federation () launched the campaign Planka.nu (literally, \"fare-dodge.now\") as a reaction to a rise in ticket prices by the Stockholm County Council. The domain name .nu, which belongs to the\nWith growing membership and interest, the campaign was detached from the SUF to form an independent organization. Local organizations have since started up in Gothenburg in 2003, Östergötland in 2005 and Skåne in 2009. A sister organization, \"pumm.it\" has been created in Helsinki, Finland. In November 2008, Planka.nu released Freepublictransports.com, a global forum for the free public transport movement. \n\nTicket fares in Stockholm have increased dramatically over time. By one measure—single ticket price for a journey—Stockholm has the most expensive-to-use public transport in the world, as of March 2009.\n\nIn the tradition of the Italian autonomists, Planka.nu advocate self-reduction, where the price of the service is determined by the consumer. Whereas in other cases this is done in agreement with (at least some) employees of the service provider, in the case of Planka.nu fare-dodgers are encouraged to evade fares without seeking permission. \n\nSince its conception Planka.nu has broadened its methods and now functions as a think tank with public transport, urban planning and climate change as its main areas of focus, as well as an insurance fund. The network also uses standard leftist methods, such as rallies, adbusting, and pamphlets. Together with refugee rights organization Ingen människa är illegal, the Swedish chapter of No one is illegal, Planka.nu provides tickets for immigrants living in Sweden without asylum, since a paperless immigrant might otherwise be reported to the police and deported if caught riding without a ticket.\n\nFailing to purchase a ticket or traveling using an incorrect pass is subject to a penalty fare of 1200 SEK in the public transport systems of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Östergötland. In return for a membership fee (paid monthly or biannually) members are refunded by Planka.nu if fined, through the solidarity fund \"P-kassan\". Net income from p-kassan is used in the aforementioned partnership with \"No one is illegal\" and to finance the production of flyers, stickers, folders, web pages and other information material. All members of Planka.nu work pro-bono. \n\nIn December 2009, Västtrafik accused the Gothenburg chapter of operating an unauthorized insurance.\n\nPlanka.nu and its organizers have seen substantial criticism, primarily by politicians and transportation companies in each city. The network has been reported to the police for incitement by Storstockholms Lokaltrafik (SL), Västtrafik and ÖstgötaTrafiken, who believe that Planka.nu engages in illegal activities. As of today, no charges have been made. Planka.nu themselves believe that their activities do not conflict with existing legislation.\n\nMany critics believe that fare evasion leads to reduced funds and higher costs for public transport, which must be offset by higher prices for those who do pay their fares.\n\nIn 2004, the Stockholm University Student Union received media attention after first permitting a meeting of the network on its premises and later barring Planka.nu when criticism was voiced.\n\nPlanka.nu has released four larger policy papers: \"Highway to Hell?\" criticizing the plans for the express beltway Förbifart Stockholm around Stockholm, \"Travel Doesn't Have to Cost the Earth\" proposing a set of measures to make the transport sector in Stockholm more climate-friendly, \"Till varje pris?\" (\"At any cost?\") a report about the costs of ticketing in the public transport system in Stockholm, and \"Trafikmaktsordningen\" (\"The Trafic Power Structure\") regarding the hierarchies of transportation and how it relates to social mobility and class.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29133293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29133293", "title": "Prince Abbas Hilmi", "text": "Prince Abbas Hilmi\n\nPrince Abbas Hilmi bin Prince Muhammad Abdel Moneim bin Khedive Abbas Hilmi II Bey () (born 16 October 1941, Cairo) is an Egyptian and Imperial Ottoman prince and financial manager. A member of the Muhammad Ali Dynasty and the Imperial House of Osman, he is the only son of Prince Muhammad Abdel Moneim and his Ottoman wife Princess Neslişah, and grandson of Khedive Abbas Hilmi II Bey.\n\nBorn in Cairo in 1941, Prince Abbas Hilmi was named after his paternal grandfather Abbas Hilmi II, the last khedive of Egypt. Theirs was the most senior male branch descended from Isma'il Pasha, and thus first in the line of succession to the Egyptian throne by virtue of the 1866 rules of succession. However, those rules were suspended by the British upon their proclamation of a protectorate over Egypt in 1914. Abbas Hilmi II was deposed, and his son Muhammad Abdel Moneim lost his place as heir apparent. The throne passed to Abbas Hilmi II's uncles Hussein Kamel and Fuad I. The Royal Edict of 13 April 1922 specifically excluded Abbas Hilmi II from the succession, although it stated that \"this exception shall not apply to his sons and their progeny.\" This meant that Prince Muhammad Abdel Moneim and his son Prince Abbas Hilmi remained eligible for the throne and retained a senior position in the order of precedence of the Kingdom of Egypt.\n\nPrince Abbas Hilmi's two great-grandfathers on his mother's side were Mehmed VI, the last Ottoman sultan, and Abdülmecid II, the last Ottoman caliph. Had the Ottoman monarchy not been abolished in 1922, Prince Abbas Hilmi would have received, in addition to his Egyptian princely title (), the Ottoman title of \"sultanzade\", which was given to the sons of imperial princesses.\n\nIn July 1952, the Free Officers launched a revolution that led to the forced abdication of King Farouk of Egypt in favour of his infant son Fuad II. Due to Fuad II's minority, Prince Muhammad Abdel Moneim was chosen by the new military rulers to serve as regent, first as head of a temporary regency body and later as sole prince regent. However, he did not last long in the position, as the Egyptian monarchy was officially abolished on 18 June 1953. Prince Muhammad Abdel Moneim and his wife Neslişah were arrested in 1957 and accused of taking part in an anti-Nasser plot. Their souring relations with the new revolutionary regime forced them into exile. As a result, their son Prince Abbas Hilmi spent much of his life in England and France.\n\nEducated at Millfield school in Street, Somerset, Prince Abbas Hilmi pursued his higher studies at Christ Church, Oxford. He worked for a discount house, a bank and an insurance broker before joining Grieveson Grant & Co. in 1968. He remained with Grieveson Grant & Co., one of the City's top stockbrokers, until 1981. In 1970, he made history by becoming the first foreign member of the London Stock Exchange, his election having been rendered possible by a change of Rule 21, which had previously restricted membership to British citizens. After leaving Grieveson Grant & Co., Prince Abbas Hilmi became a general manager of Schroder Asseily & Co. (1981–1983), and then Chairman of Hilmi and Associates (1983–1986), where he was mostly engaged in financial management activities and project finance assignments. After spending three years in London as Vice-President of Kidder, Peabody & Co. (1986–1989), he joined the Concord Group in 1989, only one year after its establishment. He was part of the three-member team that launched the Concord Group's Cairo office in 1994. Since then, Egypt has become the group's main focus area, with more than half of the assets it manages ($2.8 billion out of $3.4 billion) being invested in Egyptian securities. Concord is currently among the largest asset management firms in Egypt. One of the funds it manages, the Egypt Investment Company Ltd, has been repeatedly ranked by the \"International Herald Tribune\" as the top performing fund in the world. Prince Abbas Hilmi still works for Concord, where he holds the position of Senior Managing Director.\n\nSince his return to Egypt in 1994, Prince Abbas Hilmi has devoted considerable time to the conservation of his family's architectural legacy. He was instrumental in providing the funds necessary for the 2004–2008 renovation of his great-grandfather Tewfik Pasha's mausoleum, where he has reserved a burial plot for himself. In 2006, he founded the Friends of Manial Palace Museum Association, which seeks to preserve the palace of his granduncle Prince Muhammad Ali.\n\nIn 1969, Prince Abbas Hilmi married Mediha Momtaz (born 1945). The religious ceremony was performed in Istanbul on 1 June, and the civil marriage took place at the Kensington Register Office in London on 20 June. Mediha is a maternal granddaughter of Ahmad Midhat Abbas Yeghen, a descendant of one of the sisters of Muhammad Ali Pasha, the founder of the Egyptian royal family. Prince Abbas Hilmi and his wife Mediha are thus genealogically related, as illustrated by the family tree below. The couple have a daughter, Sabiha Fatma (born 1974), and a son, Daoud Abdel Moneim (born 1979). As of 2005, Prince Abbas Hilmi's only sister Ikbal (born 1944) lived in Istanbul with their mother Neslişah (1921–2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "40797706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40797706", "title": "Qiantan International Business Zone (Shanghai)", "text": "Qiantan International Business Zone (Shanghai)\n\nQiantan International Business Zone (Shanghai) (), is a newly built International Business Zone in Qiantan, Pudong, Shanghai, China, lying to the south of the former Expo 2010 site next to the Shanghai Oriental Sports Center. It is known as Shanghai's \"second Lujiazui\" as the Secondary Central business district developing close to Lujiazui. It will be developed specifically as another new financial district of Shanghai, but will focus more on overall urban functionality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38254102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38254102", "title": "Ralph Scotoni", "text": "Ralph Scotoni\n\nRalph Scotoni (1901-1955) was a Swiss businessman notable for his involvement in the German film industry. He was the son of Eugen Scotoni. Between 1930 and 1935, when it was nationalised by the German government, he oversaw his family's interest in Terra Film - the second most important German production company behind UFA. Scotoni automatically became a member of the Nazi Party (as was common for owners of large companies) but never picked up his membership card. Many of his later films depicted similarities between Switzerland and Nazi Germany. He left Germany in 1935 after the nationalization of Terra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3945026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3945026", "title": "SANZAAR", "text": "SANZAAR\n\nSANZAAR (South Africa, New Zealand, Australia and Argentina Rugby) is the body which operates Super Rugby and The Rugby Championship competitions in Rugby Union. SANZAAR meets annually and is composed of the CEOs from its member unions.\n\nIt was formed as SANZAR in 1996 as a joint venture of the South African Rugby Union, the New Zealand Rugby Union and the Australian Rugby Union. From the 2016 season, its name was changed to SANZAAR following the inclusion of the Argentine Rugby Union as a full member of the organisation.\n\nSANZAR was formed in 1995, shortly after rugby's move to professionalism, to counter the threat of Australia's Super League, a new rugby league competition that offered large salaries to players.\n\nSANZAR proposed the Super 12, an annual provincial competition with teams from all three countries, and the Tri Nations Series, an annual competition between each country's Test teams. This concept was developed by Queensland Rugby Union CEO Terry Doyle, New South Wales Rugby Union CEO David Moffett and Australian Rugby Union CEO Bruce Hayman. Rian Oberholzer was the first CEO of SANZAR.\n\nSANZAR's proposals were under serious threat from the World Rugby Corporation (WRC), a company formed by lawyer Geoff Levy and former Wallaby player Ross Turnbull. Both wanted a professional worldwide rugby competition funded by Kerry Packer, who had already developed professional cricket. At one point the WRC had a majority of the All Blacks and Wallaby teams signed up to their competition. However, the South African Rugby Union told the Springboks players that they would never play for their country again if they committed to the WRC, and they remained with the SARU. Most of the All Blacks then followed them, and finally the Wallabies did too.\n\nTo fund the competitions, SANZAR looked to News Limited, who was the Super League's broadcaster, eventually being offered $555 million over 10 years for worldwide television rights.\n\nIn 2002, a proposal to expand the Super 12 to fourteen teams, supported by Australia and South Africa, was vetoed by the New Zealand Rugby Union. This led to calls for the Australian and South African teams to withdraw from the competition, but the partnership continued and the issue was revisited before the end of the original 10-year broadcasting deal.\n\nFor the 2006 season, SANZAR agreed to expand the Super 12 competition with two new teams and to increase the number of Test matches played in the Tri-Nations. Licences were granted for franchises based in Bloemfontein and Perth, creating the Cheetahs and Western Force teams for the expanded Super 14 competition.\n\nThe SANZAR partnership was tested in 2007 after New Zealand removed its top 22 players from the Super 14 competition, and South Africa's removal of players from the Tri-Nations prompted calls for the Australian Rugby Union to cancel future matches against the Springboks.\n\nIn 2009 there emerged concerns that South African Rugby Union might opt to break away from the alliance over a dispute about the proposed plan to expand Super Rugby to fifteen teams in 2011, voicing its support for the concept generally but disagreeing over its length and format. On 6 May 2009, however, ARU Chief Executive John O'Neill warned that the South Africans would be the real losers, missing out altogether and potentially losing players if they went ahead with the split. \"The joint venture must remain intact\", he urged. \"I have dealt with the South Africans for years in business and sport. Part of their DNA is to take it to the brink. There's a moment when they will realise they have taken it far enough.\" On 20 May 2009, SANZAR announced it had reached agreement on a new deal involving all three nations beginning in the 2011 season.\n\nThe deal for 2011 to 2015 included:\n\nFurther expansion was agreed in 2015 to include the Argentine Rugby Union as a full member of SANZAAR from 2016. Three additional teams were included in the Super Rugby competition, one each from South Africa, Argentina and Japan. Two regional groupings were formed: the Australasian Group, with five teams in the Australian Conference and five teams in the New Zealand Conference and the South African Group, with six South African teams, one Argentinean team and one Japanese team split into a four-team Africa 1 Conference a four-team Africa 2 Conference.\n\nWhile a Japanese team has been invited to participate in the Super Rugby competition from 2016, Japan is not a member of SANZAAR at this stage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52174043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52174043", "title": "Sean Ewing", "text": "Sean Ewing\n\nSean Patrick Ewing (age 51) is an Irish entrepreneur involved in the fund management and yachting industries. He established FundsDirect in 1999 and co-founded Absolute Capital Management in 2004. In 2009 he acquired a majority stake in Pinmar, the world's largest yacht painting company, from the Ferretti Group. His wealth has been estimated at €95m and he has featured on the \"Irish Independent's\" Irish Rich List since 2010.\n\nEwing, a native of Donegal, was born the Irish seaport of Sligo in 1965 and attended Summerhill College. On leaving school, Ewing worked for his uncle's small engineering business in Letterkenny while studying accountancy at the University of Ulster. He was invited to run the investment arm of an Irish building society, developing its tax planning, financial planning and portfolio management services. This led to an opportunity to partner with Hichens, Harrison & Co, the oldest firm of stockbrokers in the City of London, to acquire IPS Capital Management, the Bristol-based fund management business.\n\nIPS Capital Management was reversed into Farlake, a property company listed on London Stock Exchange's AIM market. Following the reversal, Farlake was repositioned as an asset management company which grew to $1bn assets under management before being sold to Talisman Group in 2000.\n\nEwing carved out from that sale the fund trading business which he had launched in 1999, called FundsDirect, the UK's first online fund supermarket. The platform allowed banks to trade around 36,000 funds across 13 European countries. In 2003 FundsDirect was sold to Egg and The Prudential for €32m.\n\nIn 2004, Ewing co-founded Absolute Capital Management and listed 30% of the company on AIM in 2005. The company won several accolades including European Hedge Fund of the Year in 2006. Ewing retired from Absolute Capital in July 2007 to spend more time with his wife and two young daughters.\n\nIn 2016 the US Department of Justice entered a Settlement with Ewing as part of its investigation into Florian Homm, the Chief Investment Officer of Absolute Capital. The settlement acknowledged that Ewing had not undertaken any criminal wrongdoing nor had any knowledge of the alleged stock manipulation scheme that Homm had masterminded and for which Homm was indicted and charged by the US authorities. In July 2017, all charges against Ewing relating to the Homm case were dismissed with prejudice.\n\nIn 2009, Ewing entered the luxury yacht industry by acquiring the Ferretti Group's 60% stake in Pinmar, the world's largest yacht painting company, and investing in YCO, a yacht chartering company. In September 2012 Ewing launched an online platform for yacht charters called CharterBid.com. Ewing served as Chairman of Pinmar until its merger in September 2015 with Rolling Stock to form a new company, Global Yachting Group, (GYG).\n\nEwing was an avid golfer in his youth, participating in the Irish Amateur and British Amateur. He also played rugby for his County and captained the County team in Gaelic football. Ewing remains a strong amateur golfer, winning the Abu Dhabi Yas Links Senior Open in 2015 and the inaugural United Arab Emirates Golf Amateur Tour in the low handicap category in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "33931523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33931523", "title": "Slot limit", "text": "Slot limit\n\nA protected slot limit is a tool used by fisheries managers to regulate the size of fish that can legally be harvested from particular bodies of water. Usually set by state fish and game departments, the protected slot limit prohibits the harvest of fish where the lengths, measured from the snout to the end of the tail, fall within the protected interval. For example, on a body of water where there is a protected slot limit on largemouth bass between 12 and 16 inches, largemouth between 12 inches and 16 inches may not be harvested. In this example largemouth bass less than 12 inches and greater than 16 inches may be removed from the water and kept for personal use in accordance with local fishing regulations.\n\nSlot limits are based on the principle that bass populations exhibit different habitat requirements during different phases of their life histories. Slot limits focus on protecting one segment of the life history which can influence overall fishing success.\n\nA minimum landing size is a similar regulation in other areas.\n\nGenerally, the purpose behind the implementation of protected slot limits is to improve the angling opportunities in a particular body or bodies of water. Protected slot limits are most often used to regulate the harvest from waters where natural reproduction of the concerned fish species occurs. The protected slot limit is set in such a way that it protects the size of those fish deemed most important to the species spawning success in that fishery. With the size of the most sexually productive fish protected from harvest it is likely that an increased number will spawn during a given year and hence lead to more naturally produced individuals. The effort to increase the number of fish through natural reproduction mitigates the need for artificial stocking of a species to provide for a viable recreational fishery.\n\nIn addition to improving natural reproduction success the protected slot limit can also serve to improve the average catchable size of a protected species. This is of particular concern in recreational fisheries where the practice of catch and release is not prevalent. The slot limit protects those fish that evade harvest until their size exceeds that of the lower end of the protected slot. They are then protected from harvest until they exceed the maximum size within the protected slot. Fish within this size range are protected from harvest during the time when their size would make them desirable by anglers. In such a scenario the protection of large numbers of medium-sized fish translates into a higher success rate of those that exceed the slot limit. Hence, the protected slot limit increases the amount of fish that reach the large sizes sought by sport anglers. Of course, this model assumes that the lake or stream in question contains a forage base suitable to support fish of this size.\n\nThe issue of protected slot limits, in some cases, is marked in controversy. The protected slot limit and the angler’s desire to harvest fish can be in conflict. The main challenge lies in the economic, ecological, and social factors that fisheries managers must consider when implementing harvest regulations such as protected slot limits. Take, for example, the situation involving Lake Mille Lacs in central Minnesota. Anglers spend millions of dollars and travel countless miles to fish for Lake Mille Lacs walleye (Sander vitreus) which is highly sought after for its table fare as well as its sporting qualities. In the case of Lake Mille Lacs there has long been a protected slot limit for walleye. In 2002, the slot limit was from 20 inches to 28 inches. At the time, state fishing regulations stated that on Lake Mille Lacs an angler could keep 4 walleyes with only 1 walleye over 28 inches allowed, and all walleyes within the protected slot limit of 20 to 28 inches must be immediately released. The protected slot limit worked so well, in a sense, that anglers soon found it difficult to catch harvestable sizes of walleye and they were catching an overabundance of slot-sized fish. Many anglers have become frustrated by the lack of “eater” sized walleye. The intense protection of this size class of fish caused a sharp decline in the natural available forage base for walleyes. The result was a large number of unhealthy and underweight slot sized walleyes in the fishery. This case does represent an exception to the outcomes common to the implementation of protected slot limits. However, it does illustrate the objectives fisheries managers must consider when devising protected slot limits. Managers must balance the health of the fishery, trophy fish potential, and desired angler harvest.\n\nWhen an angler is fishing, he or she must measure the fish caught to make sure it meets the state's wildlife and fisheries requirements. Every state has their own limits for fish that are native to their ecosystems. If the fish meets the requirements then the angler is allowed to keep the fish, but can only keep a certain amount of fish of that species. Besides a slot limit there are other ways and limits that officials can use to protect a fish population.\n\n\nBefore a slot limit can be put into action, four things must be taken into consideration in order to make sure no harm is done to the ecosystem:\n\nGrowth rate can be defined as how long it takes for a fish to reach a given size. Even though growth rate differs from lake to lake, an average largemouth bass can grow up to 3 pounds in less than three years, which is considered rapid growth.\n\nRecruitment is defined as the number of young fish that live to adulthood. Lakes with 20 to 40% coverage of aquatic plants usually have high bass recruitment, whereas lakes with little shoreline cover often have low to intermediate recruitment.\nIf a lake has a high recruitment, this is a good situation for a state to use the slot limit because it will help control the number of small fish in a population. When the recruitment is low, this is where a state would use the minimum-size limit to control the fish population.\n\nMortality rate is the percent of fish in a given lake that die. To find the true mortality rate of a lake, officials must divide the number of fish harvested plus fish killed from hooks, then divide that number by the number of fish that die each year.\n\nAfter the growth rate, recruitment rate, and mortality rate have been determined, if all three factors are met, the correct measurements must be chosen to insure that no harm is done to the surrounding ecosystem. If a slot limit is used correctly, not only will the a fish population benefit from this; but the surrounding ecosystem potentially could gain some benefits from a slot limit.\n\nSlot limits can be very beneficial to fish species along with their ecosystem. One benefit from slot limits is that it reduces the amount of competitive pressure between fish the same size. Not only will it reduce competition, but it will also result in a healthier fish population since the slot limit doesn't allow anglers to keep fish that produce the most eggs during their spawning season. Since the fish are healthier and larger, this will bring more jobs and tourists to a town, which will result in the city's revenue to rise.\n\nThe Lake Fork Reservoir in Texas is known for its largemouth bass. A slot limit was introduced in the early 1900s in hopes of bettering the chances of catching a trophy bass. The regulations are:\n"}
{"id": "41829142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41829142", "title": "Staffing models", "text": "Staffing models\n\nStaffing models are related sets of reports, charts and graphs, that are used to precisely measure work activity, determine how many labor hours are needed, analyze how employee time is spent and calculate costs. Staffing models are used in the healthcare industry.\n\nStaffing models provide:\n\nStaffing models are also used to reduce overtime costs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "849642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=849642", "title": "The Beer Store", "text": "The Beer Store\n\nBrewers Retail Inc., doing business as The Beer Store, is a Canadian privately owned chain of retail outlets selling beer and other malt beverages in the province of Ontario, Canada. Founded in 1927, it was owned at its inception by a consortium of Ontario-based brewers. It currently operates as a unique open retail and wholesale system primarily owned by 3 large multinational brewing companies. It is also partially owned (under 0.02%) by 30 Ontario-based brewers. Under the ownership model, all qualified brewers are free to list their products without discrimination and to set their own selling prices, subject to LCBO price approval that must comply with legislated minimum and uniform pricing requirements.\n\nUnder Ontario's Liquor Control Act, The Beer Store was formerly the only retailer permitted to sell beer for off-site consumption, other than stores on the site of a brewery, locations of the provincial government-owned Liquor Control Board of Ontario (LCBO), and LCBO-authorized agency stores in certain smaller communities. The act and the company's articles of incorporation further stipulate that Brewers Retail cannot sell \"hard liquor\" (spirits) or consumer goods (like groceries).\n\nAmendments made to the Liquor Control Act have since allowed for the sale of single and 6 packs of beer at select supermarkets in Ontario. That was done to enhance customer access and convenience. The Beer Store, however, continues to maintain pricing exclusivity in providing consumers discounts on larger packs of beer, along with retail partners, agency stores, combination stores and manufacturer outlets. What distinguishes the Beer Store is its characterization as a sort of \"beer commons.\" A 2013 Angus Reid survey commissioned by the Ontario Convenience Stores Association found that only 13% of Ontario residents were aware that \"The Beer Store monopoly is not a government-owned enterprise.\"\n\nThe Beer Store follows an open ownership model whereby any qualifying brewer is allowed the opportunity to become a Beer Store shareholder. Currently, the Beer Store is owned by a consortium of 30 Ontario based brewers. In order to qualify, the brewer must operate at least one facility in Ontario, conduct the full brewing process and sell beer through the corporation. Valid Ontario and Canadian manufacturing licenses are required and the brewer must not produce beer in any other jurisdiction, or else meet minimum annual capacity and production goals.\n\nThe Beer Store is governed by the Liquor Control Act (LCA) and is therefore regulated by the LCBO. As of December 2016, the company operates over 450 retail stores which sell beer to the general public. This makes The Beer Store (TBS) the largest distributor of domestic beer in Ontario, selling to over 20,723 licensed customers. Although many imported beers are available at the Beer Store, the LCBO serves as the primary importer. Once imported, the product is then sold to the Beer Store for further distribution. As the primary retailer of Ontario, The Beer Store sells more than 720 brands of beer and over 1,000 home consumer beer selling units from 180 different brewers around the world. Larger Beer Store outlets typically stock around 600 beer selling units with the smallest Beer Stores stocking around 200 units.\n\nTBS has a policy of accepting any brewer in the world to sell its product, as long as the brewer meets the requirements set by the LCBO. Furthermore, unlike many other retailers, a brewer is given flexibility with regards to how many and which stores it would like to sell its product in. Because The Beer Store operates on a cost-recovery basis, listing fees for smaller breweries can be kept at a minimum. In 2016 TBS implemented a new lower tier rate for qualifying small brewers that is significantly less than the basic service rate paid by the larger brewing companies. Smaller breweries who produce under 1,000,000 hectoliters a year of beer qualify for this lower tier rate on their first 50,000 hectoliters of beer produced that year. Additionally, qualifying small brewers who produce under 10,000 hectoliters a year are now provided with 2 free guaranteed product listings at 7 of their most proximate Beer Stores.\n\nCurrently, workers are represented by the United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW) Local 12R24 union.\n\nThe company began in 1927, with the end of prohibition in Ontario. Although prohibition had proven to be unsuccessful, the provincial government still needed to placate angry temperance advocates and agreed that beer would be sold through a single network of stores. However, the government did not want to operate this network itself (as was done in some other Canadian provinces), and so permitted brewers to organize the Brewers Warehousing Company Ltd., which later became Brewers Retail/The Beer Store.\n\nThe Beer Store operates on a self-sustaining basis as an efficient distributor and retailer of Beer in the Province of Ontario. Operations take place on a fee for service basis, requiring brewers to pay a fee to sell their products through the Beer Store. The Beer Store publishes an annual rate sheet outlining their necessary financial requirements and consistency with annual budget and business plans.\n\nThe open nature of the Beer Store combined with pricing freedom for individual brewers is claimed to have created a highly competitive beer pricing market. The Beer Store processes hundreds of price changes every month and the average retail selling price in the system has only increased 2.8% from 2003 to 2014 while the general rate of Ontario inflation over the same period was approximately 20%. Ontario’s uniform pricing regulation precludes price competition between beer retailers such as the LCBO and the Beer Store. Price competition between individual brewers and brands within the Beer Store system is claimed to be significant, but there is little real competition as there is little variance in price both over time and between brands of similar quality. The system does benefit remote areas in that lower priced products are not restricted to larger outlets in urban centers, but are available at all Beer Store locations throughout the province. Hence rural consumers benefit as much (or as little) as urban consumers.\n\nThe Beer Store states it operates as a not-for-profit entity. While this may be true, critics have argued that the TBS system is structured to support relatively high prices and profits of the breweries and the detriment of consumers. A series of studies, authored or co-authored by professor Anindya Sen of the University of Waterloo, estimated that the near-monopoly the Beer Store has in Ontario allows its owners to capture between $450 to $630 in “additional profits” each year. \n\nThe first of the Sen studies was commissioned by the Ontario Convenience Store Association and surveyed six 24-pack domestic brands from IGA and Metro Quebec flyers compared to the same brands at The Beer Store in Ontario over a 22 week period in 2013. Sen corrected tax analysis associated with the original study and added three import brands from a Costco in Quebec in subsequent analysis. Correcting for tax differentials between the two provinces, positive price differences of $1.3 - $3.3 were found to exist between their average price of 24-bottle packs of brands including Molson Canadian, Molson Dry, Coors Light, Budweiser and Bud Light. Using Molson Canadian as an example, the adjusted 24 pack price from Quebec IGA and Metro flyers was found to be $26.81 versus $28.12 for Ontario TBS locations.[16]\n\nIn response to Sen’s analysis, The Beer Store commissioned a survey of Quebec – Ontario beer pricing by Debra Aron, an economist with Navigant Economics, which reviewed average TBS home consumer beer prices for all of 2013 in comparison to all beer sales at Quebec seven largest grocery chains, utilizing Neilsen data, for the same period. Aron’s study concluded that the average TBS beer prices, excluding all taxes, were 18% less than those at Quebec grocery stores in 2013 or on a per case basis approximately $4.40 less per case of 24 cans.\n\nSince 1927, the Beer Store has refunded deposits on all empty beer containers purchased in Ontario. In February 2007 the Ontario Deposit Return Program (ODRP) was launched by the Government of Ontario. The ODRP’s goal is to ensure that 100 per cent of all packaging sold at the LCBO follows the same path of all packaging sold at the Beer Store, to be reused or recycled. All alcoholic beverage containers (over 100ml) purchased in Ontario are accepted for deposit return at any Beer Store location that returns empty containers. ODRP continues to make a meaningful contribution to Ontario’s waste diversion objectives, with the return rate increasing more than 16 percentage points since its first year of operation in 2007. Between the ODRP and Blue Box, an estimated 63,909 additional tonnes of glass is being diverted from Ontario landfills. These materials continue to be directed toward higher-end recycling supporting Ontario’s green economy and generating environmental benefits. “This success means we have recycling factories making new products, instead of higher piles of waste in landfills,” said Jim Bradley, Ontario Minister of the Environment, in an April 2014 statement. As a result of the ODRP, Ontario is now the principal source of quality glass cullet for Ontario glass manufacturing – previously Ontario glass manufacturers had to source glass cullet from other jurisdictions to support production. In 2013-2014, the Beer Store and ODRP program combined, avoided 196,332 tonnes of GHG emissions - equivalent to taking over 41,333 cars and trucks off Ontario roads. Combined, these programs avoided over 2,694,461 gigajoules of energy - equivalent to over $41 million of oil (Note ($94.73/barrel and 6.1 GJ/barrel of oil).\n\nBetween 2013-2014, the Beer Store achieved a system-wide recovery and re-use rate of 99 per cent for the industry standard bottles, which are reused 12 to 15 times. The Beer Store has received praise from local and national organizations including the Conservation Council of Ontario, Environmental Defence Canada, The Recycling Council of Ontario, and Toronto Environmental Alliance.\n\nTBS’ recycling efforts translate into cost savings for municipal governments as municipalities need not spend tax revenue on recycling packaging that TBS sells. In 2008, TBS estimated that its return program has saved taxpayers $38 million in avoided waste management and recycling program costs per year. In 2012, the TBS estimated that savings had increased to $40 million with 94% of beer containers and 81% of LCBO containers recycled.\n\nThe Beer Store also is actively engaged in reducing its carbon footprint by finding innovative ways to reduce its energy consumption, a key input for any retail organization, especially one with a need to constantly refrigerate its product. A notable initiative is the use outside air to cool beer when outside temperatures provide for such a tactic.\n\nPierre Sadik, Senior Policy Adviser at the David Suzuki Foundation has stated, \"Ontarians should be proud of The Beer Store's environmental achievements. It's time businesses across the province follow The Beer Store's lead and turn their talk about waste diversion into real action.\"\n\nTBS maintains a strict policy of WeID 25 and the right to refuse any customer who appears intoxicated or who is underage. Furthermore, TBS empowers its retail management to actively monitor and track every employee’s refusal rate to ensure proper conformance to company policy. In 2017, TBS employee challenge and refusal rates are the following:\n\nRETAIL BEER CHALLENGES AND REFUSALS CY17 | Jan, 2017 – Dec, 2017\n\n\nThe Beer Store works closely with Police agencies across Ontario to report suspected impaired driving. Also Retail employees will work with the customer in finding other means of transportation(cab/transit/call a friend) home if suspected they are impaired and refused service, they go the extra step to make sure the customer will arrive alive and not just let them find a way home.\n\nSince 2006 The Beer Store, UFCW Local 12R24 (the union representing its employees), and the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society of Canada have partnered together to help raise awareness and funds for blood cancer research through the collection of empty bottles.\nThe bottle drive is formally called \"Returns for Leukemia\" but many refer to it as the \"Leukemia Bottle Drive\". It is held on the last Saturday of May and is also the world's largest bottle drive. Over the last 13 years, through donations of cash and empties, the event has raised over $15 million for the cause.\n\nThe Beer Store employees are not allowed to recommend one brand over another. Staff can tell customers about the products but cannot encourage customers to choose a specific brand. This policy is known as brewer neutrality.\nThe Beer Store is permitted to charge non-shareholding breweries listing fees, for each beer carried in stock, that many critics perceive as substantial. Listing fees have been criticized as restricting competition in the huge Ontario beer market, especially from smaller brewers who often cannot afford the fees, especially for multiple brands.\n\nSome Canadian provinces have since allowed privately owned stores to compete for sales of beer and wine while retaining tighter controls over the sale of spirits, while Alberta has privatized all retail liquor stores. In Ontario no changes have been made, and The Beer Store continues to sell over 80% of the beer sold in the province, and is the only entity legally allowed to sell 12-packs, 24-packs, and other large cases. The Beer Store has only limited competition for retail sales of 6-packs and singles with the government-owned LCBO, select supermarkets, and individual brewer retailers, located on-site at most Ontario breweries. Furthermore, the competition is only with respect to location, as prices between supermarkets, LCBO and TBS are kept uniform. Many critics say this constitutes a foreign-owned monopoly.\n\nWith regards to distribution, TBS operates its own fleet and provides service to over 16,000 licensed establishments in Ontario. TBS also delivers beer to Beer Stores on behalf of brewers who may choose to avoid the high cost of self-distributing. Critics have stated that TBS does not provide any credit terms for licensed clients, forcing them to pay cash on delivery, causing friction between TBS and the hospitality industry. However, TBS does provide credit terms and flexible payment options for customers. Customers may receive up to seven days of credit terms.\n\nCritics say TBS constitutes a foreign-owned monopoly over retail beer sales in Ontario, costing the consumer more in the long run in terms of convenience and price. Critics also state that if retail beer sales were opened up, then the average price to the consumer would drop due to competition within the marketplace. TBS has argued that the price of beer will increase if privatization occurs and points to the situations of BC and Alberta as prime examples. In an independent report titled “Alcohol Retailing Deregulation: Implications for Ontario” by economist Greg Flanagan, it was demonstrated that the general consequence of deregulating the sale of alcohol is an increase in average sale price. Since Alberta’s deregulation of alcohol in 1993, their retail alcohol prices have since tripled Ontario’s (28.2% vs 9.2%). By accounting for tax differentials and comparing the average (non-sale) 24 pack cost of beer between BC, Alberta, Quebec and Ontario, the report concludes stating that Ontarians are well served under the current regulated model.\n\nThe Beer Store has been subject to criticism following the Molson-Coors merger, whose 49% stake in TBS was the last 100% Canadian-owned share of the venture under the pre-merger Molson Breweries. In 2005, Ontario's alcohol laws were reviewed and proposals to allow the sale of beer in grocery and convenience stores were put forth. A report called the Beverage Alcohol System Review was released on March 24, 2005 by the Ontario Government. However, the report’s findings dealt centrally with the LCBO and the economic and social impact of its privatization.\n\nAn online petition was started by a private citizen, Derek Forward, to ask the provincial government to end the monopoly enjoyed by the Beer Store. The petition has received coverage in the Toronto Star, and has generated enough support to allow it to be formally presented to the provincial legislature in the fall of 2008 for consideration (petition No. P–146: \"Practice and arrangement of retailing beer\"). However, on December 9, 2008, the Ontario government dismissed the petition citing the effectiveness of the TBS system.\n\nAt the start of the 2007 provincial election campaign, The Brick Brewing Company of Waterloo made headlines when it claimed The Beer Store engaged in a number of discriminatory practices and policies, such as restrictions on price advertising, for causing a decline in company sales. TBS representatives denied that their policies are hurting small brewers and implicitly questioned the timing of the Brick Brewing Company's statement, suggesting that in their view it is unethical for a brewery to use an electoral campaign to forward self-interests. Additionally, Brick claimed that TBS allegedly used monopolistic tactics to force what is now Ontario's largest independent brewer to stop offering beer in \"Stubbies\" by withholding supplies of industry standard \"long-necked\" bottles. The Beer Store claimed that Brick signed an agreement in 1992 to use the industry standard bottle and Brick said it never signed such an agreement. This dispute was settled out of court with the terms of the settlement undisclosed. Brick has since stopped selling beer in \"stubbies\" because the cost was too high.\n\nA July 2008 Toronto Star article attributed an industry analyst as estimating the three foreign entities that owned TBS earned $1 billion in profit per year in Canada.\n\nOntario Craft Brewers is the main lobby group for Ontario's smaller brewers, and has been increasingly critical of BRI/TBS. The 29 OCB members currently employ several thousand Ontarians. OCB wants to either acquire shares in TBS or be permitted to set up their own competing chain. Premier McGuinty responded by saying that his government would not consider any application to form a competing chain, and that his government would not consider compelling TBS shareholders to sell any shares, although some Liberal and Conservative backbenchers have said they would expect BRI to at least negotiate in good faith with craft brewers who made a serious offer. BRI responded by saying that it was not considering and would not consider selling shares at any price, and that they do more than enough to accommodate non-shareholding brewers already. Canada's National Brewers (the lobby group that represents the BRI shareholders) further said that in the event OCB did get to set up a competing chain, they would refuse to stock their products there.\n\nIn February 2012, the website \"Canadian Beer News\" reported that The Beer Store has made thousands of dollars worth of political donations to the British Columbia Liberal Party and British Columbia New Democratic Party. The report noted that it was odd for an Ontario-based company to be making such large donations to political parties in another province, and suggested that the co-owning breweries were funneling this money through The Beer Store in an attempt to put pressure on the BC government to give their brands favourable placements in BC Liquor stores.\n\nOn December 9, 2014, Toronto Star investigative journalist Martin Regg Cohn exposed an agreement between The Beer Store and the LCBO to limit competition and the products offered to Ontario beer drinkers. The document of June 1, 2000, provided to him by a whistleblower, entitled “Serving Ontario Beer Consumers — Framework for Improved Co-operation and Planning Between the LCBO and BRI\", was signed by then head of the LCBO Andy Brandt and head of BRI Daver Perkins, of which a copy was sent to Ministry of Consumer & Commercial Relations Deputy Minister Sandra Lang.\n\nThe agreement ensured that the LCBO would not offer beer products in large format sizes, being cases of 12 or 24 beers, it would not sell major brands to restaurants or bars, and would inform the Beer Store of any store it was planning to open in a new community.\nRegg Cohn says both retail consumers and the food and beverage industry are being gouged by this non-competitive business agreement. Former TD Bank CEO Ed Clark, in a 2014 report to the government on maximizing assets, says that the LCBO (and the Government of Ontario) forgoes $515 million of revenue by not allowing sales of larger format beer packages and forgoes $500 million of revenue by not selling major brands to restaurants.\n\nAndy Brandt, former highly successful head of the LCBO, is very critical of the agreement, and says it was forced upon him by the then Mike Harris Progressive Conservative government. When Regg Cohn questioned the Beer Store representatives about the agreement, suggesting it is collusion, the reply from the BRI lawyer Michael A. Eizenga of Bennett Jones LLP stated the \"use of the term 'collusion' which has significant legal meaning,\" and \"This is an inaccurate and inappropriate characterization, to which my client objects.\"\n\nLiberal Finance Minister Charles Sousa, in response to these revelations, says he has \"got the investigation underway\" and that \"I'm trying to ensure that what you’re suggesting doesn’t happen any further ... You're right, there's a monopoly, a duopoly, oligopoly — call it what you will.\"\n\nOn December 10, 2014, Restaurants Canada filed an official complaint with the Competition Bureau. \"'We did not know the depth of the complicity,' it said, pointing to 'new and disturbing information' in the Star that detailed price gouging of restaurants and bars forced to buy from The Beer Store ... A Competition Bureau spokesperson said it is 'reviewing it to determine whether the conduct in question could raise concerns under the criminal or civil provisions in the Competition Act.'\"\n\nOn April 15, 2015, Premier of Ontario Kathleen Wynne announced changes to provincial liquor laws that would, among other changes, allow up to 450 supermarkets in \"urban population centres\" (roughly equating the number of Beer Store locations) to be authorized to sell beer subject to conditions, require The Beer Store to improve the placement and marketing of Ontario craft brews, and allow LCBO locations to trial carrying 12-packs. Wynne stated that The Beer Store had become a \"de-facto monopoly controlled by a small number of companies\". The new regulations took effect on December 15, 2015 with 58 designated supermarkets, and additional locations to be added in the future; all products must be below 7.1% alcohol by volume, and at least 20% of a store's stock must be Ontario craft brews. Loblaw Companies elected to go beyond the minimum quota and committed to stock 50% Ontario craft brews at its participating stores, in an effort to provide a wider array of options.\n\nWhile the sale of beer in supermarkets has increased availability to consumers, it has done nothing to increase competition or lower prices for consumers. Beer prices in supermarkets are dictated by the LCBO, to the point that the LCBO, and not the supermarket, inputs beer prices into store computer check-out systems. Those prices are kept in line with LCBO and TBS prices. Depending on and accounting for the exchange rate at time of purchase, it can cost 25-40% less to buy a 24 pack of Ontario brewed beer at a New York State supermarket than it will cost anywhere in Ontario. It should be noted that current Ontario beer commodity taxes are currently a $11.30 per case compared to New York’s beer excise tax of $0.41 per case. Federal beer excise tax and sales taxes are also higher in Ontario.\n\nIn the 1980s, Brewers Retail published a directory of its retail locations in a booklet with a small map to each location. It had a picture of an animal, (a penguin, for example) on the covers. The booklet when closed was approximately . The 1972 version issued by Brewers Retail had cartography by Rand McNally.\n\nIn the film \"Strange Brew\" the McKenzie Brothers visit a Brewers Retail store demanding a refund after they attempt to return a bottle of beer that contained a mouse (the mouse was however placed in the bottle by the brothers). Due to the nature of the scene, Brewers Retail refused to allow the use of one of their actual stores for the filming, and also refused to allow the use of the name \"Brewers Retail\". In response, the filmmakers built their own replica store, and called it \"The Beer Store\". Coincidentally, several years later, Brewers Retail changed the name of its stores to \"The Beer Store\", and they continue to operate under this name.\n\nThe Beer Store was also showcased in episodes of \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" during O'Brien's week-long tenure in Toronto during the week of February 10, 2004.\n\nBrewers' Distributor Ltd. (BDL) operates in Western Canada and is owned by Anheuser-Busch InBev and Molson-Coors (Sleeman has its own distribution operation in the West). Unlike BRI, BDL only warehouses and distributes beer and is not in the retail business.\n\n"}
{"id": "17584202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17584202", "title": "The Coffin Quilt", "text": "The Coffin Quilt\n\nThe Coffin Quilt is a novel by Ann Rinaldi that was first published in 1999. Set in Kentucky, it tells the story of the Hatfield-McCoy feud in the late 19th century through the eyes of Fanny, a young female member of the McCoy family. Choosing between family and what is right is one of the major decisions Fanny McCoy has to make. When the McCoys decide to wage a war against a rival family, the Hatfields, things start to get out of hand; four of her brothers are killed by Hatfields.\n\nRinaldi tells the story of the Hatfield-McCoy feud in the late 19th century through the eyes of Fanny, a young female member of the McCoy clan. Set against the backdrop of the Civil War, Rinaldi illustrates the fervent code of honor in the mountains of Kentucky and West Virginia as her protagonist struggles to understand the superstition and loyalty fueling the cycle of violence in Tug Valley. In the end, Fanny must choose between her family and her future to escape the feud.\n\nWhen Fanny’s sister, Roseanna, the “purtiest girl in the county,” has an affair with Johnse Hatfield, the slow brewing hatred between the Hatfield and the McCoys erupts. As the families take the law into their own hands through dubious pacts and midnight raids, Fanny follows her sister Roseanna into a nest of secrets. Pregnant and estranged from her lover, Roseanna sews a coffin quilt to preserve the family members so quickly disappearing from Tug Valley. Fanny disapproves of the quilt despite her loyalty to her sister and evolves from an innocent bystander to a judicious dissenter as the violence escalates. With the help of her mysterious “Yeller Thing,” Fanny learns to overcome the petty hatred plaguing both families.\n\nAccording to the author’s website, young adult author Ann Rinaldi uses her writing to excite readers about the American experience. Her books have been noted for their ability to augment girls’ interest in history.\n\n"}
{"id": "27506178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27506178", "title": "Turki Faisal Al Rasheed", "text": "Turki Faisal Al Rasheed\n\nDr. Turki Faisal Al-Rasheed (born 5 August 1954) () is a prominent Saudi businessman, he is currently the Chairman and the Founder of Golden Grass Incorporated in Riyadh. His company was listed as one of the top 100 companies in Saudi Arabia, focusing in exporting peanuts, agricultural products and chemicals, construction, and manpower. He Also serves as a Board Member of the National Agriculture Development Company (NADEC), an Agriculture Committee of the Riyadh Chamber of Commerce and serve as the President and Chairman of Turki Faisal International Corporation (TFIC), from 1981 to present\n\nDr. Turki is also the current Chairman and founder of Saudi Voter Center, an internet-based website which encourages Saudi nationals to become more involved, not only during election time but all year round, in debating and shaping social political decisions which affect the country. Dr Turki is currently an Adjunct Professor at the Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences in the University of Arizona, Tucson.\n\nDr. Turki earned his degree in Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) at Liverpool Business School (LJMU), U.K. His Executive Master in Business Administration (EMBA) at college of Industrial Management at King Fahd University for Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM), Saudi Arabia and Bachelor of Science in Agriculture Engineering at the University of Arizona, Tucson.\n\nDr. Turki is a keep-fit enthusiast, a connoisseur of music and arts and enjoys mountaineering. He is actively involved in the Saudi business community, where he employs his broad experience and his leadership skills to promote the development of the agricultural sector in the Arab world. He makes frequent contributions to the Saudi press. He is married with four children.\n\nTurki Faisal Al-Rasheed is a descendant of Ibn Rashid family, the ruler of Hail, a clan of the Shammar Tribe. His father was one of the handful of the Ibn Rashid family who walk out the last out of the Barzan Palace on November 2, 1921.\n\nThis is a book about the modernization of public governance and the development of strategic states. It focuses on six Gulf countries (United Arab Emirates, Oman, Qatar, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait) and presents research findings from quantitative data analysis and comparative analysis of the trends and developments of the six Gulf states.\nThis book (English translation of title is \"First Edition\") is a selection of articles some of which have already been published in the newspapers. The book explores 3 the needs to reflect on the issues relevant to the Saudi reality and the future on the\nheels of turbulence that devastated the Arab World.\nThis book (English translation of title is \"What I have written\") is presented in the form of a collection of articles concerned with dealing with and addressing the issues that trouble the community. Based on careful investigation and documentation, this book takes into consideration the views of specialists in extending the formulation of the problems and issues facing society to provide solutions according to the available resources and capabilities of the parties.\nDue to concerns about the issue of scarcity of water, soaring food prices, population growth, high unemployment, environmental degradation, and reductions in arable land, combined with the effects of urbanization, economic development and security concerns, the Saudi government introduced combative measures from self-sufficiency to deflationary policy in wheat production. My study set out to demonstrate that these measures, which were aimed at ensuring food security, alleviating poverty, and promoting economic growth, were actually having a negative effect on many aspects of agriculture in Saudi Arabia, including the downsizing of huge farms; closure of small agricultural companies; and bankruptcy of some businesses trading in related areas such as agricultural machinery and animal health. The objectives were to analyse Saudi Arabian Government policies, assess the impact and diversity, investigate sustainability, of cultural development strategies in Saudi Arabia and investigate the attitudes and opinions on CSR in Saudi Arabia.\nThis book is about the impact of the Arab revolution on the Arab world in general and Saudi Arabia in particular.o-edited by David Bryde and Yusra Mouzughi contains edited chapters on the topic of sustainable development. The overall rationale for the book is that there are generic sustainability needs and concerns to be addressed that encompass all of the GCC i.e. all countries face challenges in terms of sustainable consumption and production..\nA translation of the book in English in 2012 with more emphasis for the Arab readers. This book is about the role of agriculture to enhance food security, alleviate poverty and promote economic growth.\nA contribution to the book entitled: Strategic Management in the Public Sector by Paul Joyce. It has been written especially for managers and students taking postgraduate courses such as MBAs and MPAs. It will also appeal to individual managers and civil servants in the public sector looking for an accessible book to read as part of their own independent personal development.\nThis book was co-edited by David Bryde and Yusra Mouzughi contains edited chapters on the topic of sustainable development. The overall rationale for the book is that there are generic sustainability needs and concerns to be addressed that encompass all of the GCC i.e. all countries face challenges in terms of sustainable consumption and production..\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25436081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25436081", "title": "Turnaround management", "text": "Turnaround management\n\nTurnaround management is a process dedicated to corporate renewal. It uses analysis and planning to save troubled companies and returns them to solvency, and to identify the reasons for failing performance in the market, and rectify them. Turnaround management involves management review, root failure causes analysis, and SWOT analysis to determine why the company is failing. Once gdg\nanalysis is completed, a long term strategic plan and restructuring plan are created. These plans may or may not involve a bankruptcy filing. Once approved, turnaround professionals begin to implement the plan, continually reviewing its progress and make changes to the plan as needed to ensure the company returns to solvency.\n\nTurnaround Managers are also called Turnaround Practitioners , and often are interim managers who only stay as long as it takes to achieve the turnaround. Assignments can take anything from 3 to 24 months depending on the size of the organization and the complexity of the job. Turnaround management does not only apply to distressed companies, it in fact can help in any situation where direction, strategy or a general change of the ways of working needs to be implemented. Therefore turnaround management is closely related to change management, transformation management and post-merger-integration management. High growth situation for example are one typical scenario where turnaround experts also help. More and more turnaround managers are becoming a one-stop-shop and provide help with corporate funding (working closely with banks and the Private Equity community) and with professional services firms (such as lawyers and insolvency practitioners) to have access to a full range of services that are typically needed in a turnaround process. Most turnaround managers are freelancers and work on day rates. The job often involves frequent travel. Others work for large corporations and have permanent positions.\n\nStages in repositioning of an organization:\n\nThe first stage is delineated as onset of decline (1). Factors that cause this circumstance are new innovations by competitors or a downturn in demand, which leads to a loss of market share and revenue. But also stable companies may find themselves in this stage, because of maladministration or the production of goods that are not interesting for customers. In public organisations are external shocks, like political or economical, reasons that could cause a destabilization of a performance. \nSometimes an onset of decline can be temporary and through a corrective action and recovery (2) been fixed. \n\nThe reposition situation (3) is the point in the process, where the minimally accepted performance is long-lasting below its limits. In empirical studies a performance of turnaround is measured through financial success indicators. These measures ignore other performance indicators such as impact on environment, welfare of staff, and corporate social responsibility. The organizational leaders need to decide, if a strategy change should happen or the current strategy be kept, which could lead on the other hand to a company takeover or an insolvency. In the public sector performances are characterized by multiple aims that are political contested and constructed. Nevertheless, are different criteria of performances used by different stakeholders and even if its use results in the same criteria, it is likely that different weights apply to them. So if a public organization is situated in a turnaround situation, it is subject to the dimensions of a performance (e.g. equity, efficiency, effectiveness) as well as its approach of their relative importance. This political point of view suggests that a miscarriage in a public service may happen when key stakeholders are ongoing dissatisfied by a performance and therefore the existence of an organisation might be unclear. In the public sector success and failure is judged by the higher bodies that bestow financial, legal, or other different resources on service providers.\nIf decision maker choose to take a new course, because of the realization that actions are required to prevent an ongoing decline, they need at first to search for new strategies (4). Question that need to be asked here are, if the search for a reposition strategy should be participative and decentralized or secretive and centralized or intuitive and incremental or analytic and rational. Here, the selection must be made quickly, since a second turnaround may not be possible after a new or existing poor performance. This means, that a compressed strategy process is necessary and therefore an extensive participation and analysis may be precluded. The same applies to the public sector, because the public authorities are highly visible and politically under pressure to rapidly implement a recovery plan. \n\nIs the fifth stage reached, the selection of a new strategy (5a) has been made by the company. Especially researcher typically concentrates on this one of the reposition process. Most of them focus on the structure and its impact on the performance of the strategy that was implemented. It is even stated by the scientist, that a commercial success is again possible after a failing of the company. But different risk-averse groups, like suppliers, customers or staff may be against a change or are sceptical about the implementation of the strategy. These circumstances could result in a blockade of the realization. Also the conclusion is conceivable, that no escape strategy is found (5b), as a result that some targets can’t be achieved. In the public sector it is difficult to find a recoverable strategy, which therefore could lead to a permanent failure. The case may also be, that though a recovery plan is technically feasible, it might not be political executable. \n\nThe implication of the new strategy (6) ensues in the following sixth stage. It is a necessary determinant of organizational success and has to be a fundamental element of a valid turnaround model. Nevertheless, it is important to note, that no empirical study sets a certain turnaround strategy. \n\nThe outcomes of the turnaround strategies can result in three different ways. First of all a terminal decline (7a) may occur. This is possible for situations, where a bad strategy was chosen or a good strategy might have been implemented poorly. Another conceivable outcome is a continued failure (7b). Here is the restructuring plan failed, but dominant members within the company and the environment still believe that a repositioning is possible. If that’s the case, they need to restart at stage four and look for a new strategy. Does an outcome of the new strategy turns out to be good, a turnaround (7c) is called successful. This is achieved, when its appropriate benchmark reaches the level of commercial success, like it was the case before the onset of decline. This is commonly measured in a timeframe between two and four year.\n\nThere are different techniques that can be applied to cause a repositioning. The four main techniques are known as Retrenchment, Repositioning, Replacement and Renewal:\n\nThe Retrenchment strategy of the turnaround management describes wide-ranging short-term actions, to reduce financial losses, to stabilize the company and to work against the problems, that caused the poor performance.\nThe essential content of the Retrenchment strategy is therefore to reduce scope and the size of a business through Shrinking Selective Strategy. This can be done by selling assets, abandoning difficult markets, stopping unprofitable production lines, downsizing and outsourcing. These procedures are used to generate resources, with the intention to utilize those for more productive activities, and prevent financial losses. Retrenchment is therefore all about an efficient orientation and a refocus on the core business.\nDespite that many companies are inhibited to perform cutbacks, some of them manage to overcome the resistance. As a result they are able get a better market position in spite of the reductions they made and increase productivity and efficiency. Most practitioners even mention, that a successful turnaround without a planned retrenchment is rarely feasible.\n\nThe repositioning strategy, also known as \"entrepreneurial strategy\", attempts to generate revenue with new innovations and change in product portfolio and market position. This includes development of new products, entering new markets, exploring alternative sources of revenue and modifying the image or the mission of a company.\n\nReplacement is a strategy, where top managers or the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) are replaced by new ones. This turnaround strategy is used, because it is theorized that new managers bring recovery and a strategic change, as a result of their different experience and backgrounds from their previous work. \nIt is also indispensable to be aware, that new CEO’s can cause problems, which are obstructive to achieve a turnaround. For an example, if they change effective organized routines or introduce new administrative overheads and guidelines.\nReplacement is especially qualified for situations with opinionated CEO’s, which are not able to think impartial about certain problems. Instead they rely on their past experience for running the business or belittle the situation as short-termed. The established leaders fail therefore to recognize that a change in the business strategy is necessary to keep the company viable. There are also situations, where CEO’s do notice that a current strategy isn’t successful as it should be. But this hasn’t to imply, that they are capable or even qualified enough to accomplish a turnaround.\nIs a company against a Replacement of a leader, could this end in a situation, where the declining process will be continued. As result qualified employees resign, the organisation discredits and the resources left will run out as time goes by.\n\nWith a Renewal a company pursues long-term actions, which are supposed to end in a successful managerial performance. The first step here is to analyze the existing structures within the organization. This examination may end with a closure of some divisions, a development of new markets/ projects or an expansion in other business areas. A Renewal may also lead to consequences within a company, like the removal of efficient routines or resources. On the other hand are innovative core competencies implemented, which conclude in an increase of knowledge and a stabilization of the company value.\n\nThree critical hurdles or challenges that management faces in any repositioning program:\n\nThere are a number of professional industry associations that provide advice, literature and contacts to turn around professionals and academics.\nSome are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22604336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22604336", "title": "Ukrainian Center for EU Civil Service Standards", "text": "Ukrainian Center for EU Civil Service Standards\n\nThe Center for Adaptation of the Civil Service to the Standards of the European Union (since its foundation in April, 2004 till June, 2008 – Center for Support of Civil Service Institutional Development) was established under the National Agency of Ukraine on Civil Service (hereinafter – NAUCS) in order to provide informational and analytical, expert and organizational support to public administration development, strengthening of institutional capacity of the civil service of Ukraine and its adaptation to the standards of the European Union.\n\nProfessional activity of the Center for Adaptation of the Civil Service to the Standards of the European Union (hereinafter – the Center) is carried out in accordance with the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as of 04 June, 2008 No 528 “Some Issues of the Center for Support of Civil Service Institutional Development”.\n\nStrengthening of cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union in the area of civil service and public administration, improvement of the coordination mechanism for institutional ensuring of their adaptation to the EU standards, in particular through organization of activity on effective implementation of institutional building instruments Twinning, TAIEX and SIGMA Programme in Ukraine, professional development of civil servants and raising awareness on the European integration issues.\n\n• participation in the preparation of proposals on formation of public policy and law-making activity in the area of civil service and public administration, their adaptation to the EU standards, realization of administrative reform and development of state institutions in the context of European integration of Ukraine, implementation of institution buildingl instruments in Ukraine;\n\n• scientific, expert, informationa and analytical, methodological, organizational and other support to preparation and implementation of programmes and activities in the specified area;\n\n• improving existing and promoting to introduction of new standards and procedures for the work of civil servants and local self-government officials, the activities of government authorities and local self-government authorities taking into consideration the best international practices; \n\n• participation in the implementation of modern information technologies in the work of government authorities and local self-government authorities; \n\n• advisory support to government authorities and local self-government authorities, dissemination of legal, scientific and other information on the civil service and public administration, their adaptation to the EU standards, administrative reform and development of state institutions in the context of European integration of Ukraine, in particular the use of institution building instruments in Ukraine;\n\n• participation in the implementation of cooperation between Ukraine and the EU, consulting and methodological support as well as monitoring within the limits of the powers of activity of executive authorities on fulfillment of obligations assumed by Ukraine to the EU and international organizations;\n\n• support to the NAUCS in fulfilling its tasks and functions regarding the use of institutional instruments in Ukraine.\n\nIn 2005, the President of Ukraine signed the Decree \"Issues of Ensuring the Implementation of the Twinning Programme in Ukraine\" (as of 06 October, 2005 No 1424), according to which functions of the coordinator of the preparation and implementation of the Twinning programme in Ukraine were entrusted to the NAUCS as well as the Twinning Programme Administration Office (hereinafter – PAO) was established. PAO coordinates training and promotes the practical implementation of institutional development projects, provides consulting and methodological support to government authorities on the preparation and implementation of projects, monitors the implementation of projects.\n\nAccording to the Order of the NAUCS as of 27 September, 2013, No 169 “On Activities of the Twinning Programme Administration Office”, the functions of the PAO are assigned to the Center. \n\nThe main function of the Twinning Programme Administration Office (PAO) is the disseminating information on institutional development instruments, carrying out methodological and consultative support of the government authorities on the preparation and implementation of projects, ensuring quality assurance of implemented events, organizing international cooperation in this area, etc. Furthermore, PAO is also a contact point of communication between the EU Delegation to Ukraine and the beneficiary administrations as well as between MS administrations and beneficiary administrations.\n\nPAO Role and Functions:\n\n• raising awareness of government authorities on the possibility of involving the Twinning instrument and Twinning projects implementation;\n\n• support to government authorities in development of Twinning project proposals, TAIEX application forms as well as providing their quality check;\n\n• thorough explanation of the features Twinning and TAIEX instruments implementation;\n\n• organization of meetings of Twinning Programme Coordination Group;\n\n• organization of meetings of the Coordination Group on the TAIEX instrument implementation;\n\n• general coordination of Twinning projects implementation;\n\n• general coordination of the TAIEX instrument implementation;\n\n• coordination of cooperation with the SIGMA programme.\n\nTwinning is an institutional building instrument that provides framework for cooperation between civil servants of Ukrainian and EU Member States government authorities. Twinning instrument provides long-term assistance with the aim to implement elements of public administration needed for adaptation of the national legislation to the EU norms and standards.\n\nAccording to Decree of the President of Ukraine «Issues for the Implementation of Twinning Programmes in Ukraine» dated 06.10.2005 № 1424 the coordinator of Twinning instrument implementation in Ukraine is NAUCS, and the implementation of the organizational, methodological and other support for Twinning programme implementation is entrusted to PAO.\n\nThe use of this institutional building instrument is regulated by Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On Approval of the Procedure for Initiation, Preparation and Implementation of the Twinning Projects” as of 11 October, 2016 No 700 and Interagency Order of the National Agency of Ukraine on Civil Service and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine «On Creation of Working Group on Coordination of the Twinning Instrument Implementation» dated 15.06.2012 № 120/702.\n\nAs of March 2018, in the work plan: 42 Twinning projects completed, 11 projects are in the process of implementation, and 10 projects are in the stage of development of the Twinning Project Fiche; the total number of Twinning projects - 63.\n\nTAIEX (Technical Assistance Information Exchange) is an instrument of technical assistance and information exchange, provided by the European Commission with the aim of strengthening institutional capacity, with further adaptation of the national legislation to the legislation of the European Union (acquis communautaire), its implementation and further effective use.\n\nImplementation of external assistance of the European Commission within the framework of TAIEX instrument in Ukraine is carried out in accordance with the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On Approval of the Procedure of Preparation, Approval and Realization of the Action Plan on Involvement of External Assistance of the European Commission within the framework of TAIEX” as of 13 January, 2016 No 32.\n\nThe coordination of TAIEX instrument is entrusted to PAO.\n\nTAIEX instrument is aimed at:\n\n• approximation, implementation of the national legislation to acquis communautaire;\n\n• institutional development of government authorities;\n\n• professional development of civil servants.\n\nTAIEX assistance can be implemented in three forms (seminar, study visit and expert mission), as well as cover different areas. \n\nSince implementation of the TAIEX instrument in Ukraine (since 2006), as of the beginning of 2018 16828 representatives of the government authorities took part in the 742 events, that was organized in the framework of TAIEX instrument. 144 events were organized by the initiative of the European Commission and 598 events were organized by the initiative of Ukraine.\n\nDuring the mentioned period (2006–2018) TAIEX events were conducted in the following areas:\n\n• Justice and Internal Affairs (191 events);\n\n• Internal Market (332 events);\n\n• Environment, Telecommunications, Transport (128 events);\n\n• Agriculture and Food Safety (91 events).\n\nSIGMA Programme (Support for Improvement in Governance and Management) is considered to be one of the most prestigious analytical centers of the European Union, that was launched in 1992 on the initiative of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the European Union.\n\nKey Objectives of the SIGMA Programme:\n\n• strengthening the foundations for improved public governance;\n\n• supporting social and economic development through capacity building of the public sector;\n\n• enhancing horizontal governance;\n\n• improving the design and implementation of public administration reforms.\n\nTechnical Assistance of the SIGMA Programme is divided into six areas:\n\n• public financial management, public procurement and external audit;\n\n• public service and human resource management;\n\n• policy development and coordination;\n\n• public administration reform;\n\n• service delivery;\n\n• accountability.\n\nAssistance of the SIGMA programme in the area of reforming of public administration system is provided by:\n\n• administrative structures analysis;\n\n• development and implementation of administrative system reforms;\n\n• analysis of the suggested draft laws and programmes;\n\n• organization of trainings and information exchange;\n\n• preparation of technical assistance action plans.\n\nCooperation between the NAUCS and the OECD is a priority area according to the Action Plan on Strengthening Cooperation between Ukraine and the OECD for 2013–2016, approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as of 06.02.2013 No 132-r, Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of Ukraine and the OECD on Deeper Cooperation as of 07.10.2014, Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine “On Procedure of the Participation of Central Executive Authorities in the Activities of International Organizations, where Ukraine is one of the Member States” as of September 13, 2002 No. 137 according to which the NAUCS is the central executive authority, responsible for fulfilling the obligations, including financial arising from Ukraine’s membership in the OECD Public Governance Committee. Since 2008 the NAUCS has been taking part in the Committee above mentioned as a permanent observer.\n\nNAUCS, Center for Adaptation of the Civil Service to the Standards of the EU together with EU Delegation to Ukraine ensure the developing and approving the Action Plan of SIGMA Programme in Ukraine based on proposals received from authorities concerned. \n\nSince 2011 the NAUCS has been cooperated with the SIGMA Programme on the Law of Ukraine “On Civil Service” as of December 10, 2016, No. 889-VIII, the Draft Law of Ukraine “On the Service in Local Authorities”, the Strategy of Public Administration Reform in Ukraine for 20162020, approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as of June 24, 2016 No. 474 “Some Issues of Public Administration Reform of Ukraine”.\n\nDuring 2017–2018 according to the Strategy of Public Administration Reform in Ukraine for 20162020 and jointly with the participation of the SIGMA Programme the assessment of current state of affairs in public administration system in Ukraine has been carried out. \n\nSince 2011 the NAUCS on behalf of Ukraine has been actively involved in the activities of the Working Group (Panel) on Governance and Public Administration Reform of the Thematic Platform 1 “Strengthening Institutions and Good Governce” within the framework of the EU initiative “Eastern Partnership”, in particular it participates in Working Group meetings and in the events organized by Eastern Partnership countries on the regular basis.\n\nThe Working Group (Panel) is focused on the following areas:\n\n• “Civil service, public administration organizations and their functioning (human resources management, rules of recruitment, statutes)”;\n\n• “Transparency, e-governance and data protection”;\n\n• “Local / regional government and decentralization”;\n\n• “Effective management of technical assistance”.\n\nSince 2012 Ukraine has been a leading country in the area “Effective management of technical assistance”. Each year the NAUCS prepares and approves together with partners of the Eastern Partnership a Work plan for the relevant year in four mentioned areas.\n\nWithin the framework of cooperation with the EU initiative “Eastern Partnership”, the NAUCS developed a series of information-analytical and methodological materials on the civil service reform and its adaptation to EU standards, in particular:\n\n• brochure “The local self-government in the Eastern Partnership countries”;\n\n• handbook “Professional development of the civil servants in Eastern Partnership countries: results of comparative study of civil service reform”;\n\n• handbook “Civil Service in the Eastern Partnership Countries”\n\n• handbook “Development of the professional, stable and politically impartial civil service: the role of transformational leadership and organizational culture”.\n\nAs of the beginning of 2018, within the framework of cooperation with the EU initiative “Eastern Partnership”, the Center provided preparation and implementation of \n\n17 communicative activities.\n\nNATO–Ukraine Programme for Professional Development of the Civilian Personnel of the Sector of Security and Defence (hereinafter – Programme) – is an instrument aimed at supporting reforms in Ukraine through the training of civilian security and defense specialists who are capable of contributing to the effective functioning of the country's security and defense policy.\n\nAccording to the decision of the sixth meeting of the Commission on Ukraine Partnership with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization on January 3, 2013, the NAUCS is definded as the national contact point and main executor of the NATO-Ukraine Programme for the Professional Development of Civilian Personnel of the Security and Defense.\n\nRealization of the Programme is carried out in accordance with the Annual National Programme under the NATO-Ukraine Commission; Decree of President of Ukraine as of \n\nJuly 8, 2016 No 296 “Issues of Coordination of Euro-Atlantic Integration of Ukraine”; the Strategy for Sustainable Development “Ukraine 2020” approved by the Decree of the President of Ukraine as of January 12, 2015, No 5; Strategies of National Security of Ukraine, approved by the Decree of the President of Ukraine as of May 26, 2015, No 287; Military Doctrine of Ukraine, approved by Decree of the President of Ukraine as of September 24, 2015, No 555.\n\nWithin the framework of the Programme implementation, communicative and other events aimed at increasing of the professional competence of civil servants of the security and defense sector of Ukraine are being conducted, language training courses are conducted.\n\n"}
{"id": "26876811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26876811", "title": "Ulrich Dietz", "text": "Ulrich Dietz\n\nUlrich Dietz (born 25 January 1958 in Pforzheim) is a German Manager. He used to be the CEO of GFT Technologies SE.\n\nUlrich Dietz studied mechanical engineering and product engineering at the universities of Reutlingen and of Furtwangen and graduated as a certified engineer.\n\nThe GFT (Gesellschaft für Technologietransfer) was founded on March 19, 1987, by Prof. Dr.-Ing. Schönemann, the sole shareholder at that time.\n\nThe company name derives from the name TZI (Transferzentrum für Informationstechnologie, Steinbeis-Stiftung), where Prof. Dr.-Ing. Michael Schoenemann had previously been the director, and which he founded in 1985.\n\nIn 1999, Dietz took GFT public, listing it on the German stock exchange. Since then, Ulrich Dietz has been CEO of GFT Technologies AG.\nIn the years that followed he has continued to expand the company, taking it to an international level. Under his leadership, the GFT Group currently employs around 4,493 full-time and around 1,500 freelance employees at locations in 11 countries. Dietz holds 26.3% of all GFT shares.\n\nIn 2003, Ulrich Dietz became a member of the Presiding Committee of BITKOM (the German Association for Information Technology, Telecommunications and New Media).\nIn this role, he has outsized responsibility for the promotion and the expansion of international relations in the German IT industry. Furthermore, he is a member of the task force that represents \"IT in small and medium-sized companies\" within the scope of the federal government's National IT Summit. The task force's main aim is to improve IT availability for small and medium-sized companies, as well as advance the potential for further education. Since March 2010, Ulrich Dietz has been Speaker of the committee for IT/ICT of the Eastern European Economic Relations by the German Government.\n\nIn 2011 Ulrich Dietz initiated the innovation platform CODE n.\n\nUlrich Dietz is a member of the following boards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38382164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38382164", "title": "Younes and Soraya Nazarian Library, University of Haifa", "text": "Younes and Soraya Nazarian Library, University of Haifa\n\nThe University of Haifa's Younes and Soraya Nazarian Library is a central academic library, among the largest in Israel. It is one of the most progressive Israeli libraries in the realm of services and technology and library information systems.\n\nFrom its founding in 1963, the Library has operated under one roof and is managed by a central administration. The Library offers academic information expertise for locating the wide range of material in its holdings and accessible via the Internet. The Library's role in the University's academic activity is based on professional specialization, which enables provision of information services in a wide variety of disciplines and information types.\n\nThe Library devotes resources to the development, preservation and digitization of special collections, such as dissertations, research publications, historical photographs of the Land of Israel, and archives of theatrical and performing arts. The collections, which are compiled and displayed in the \"Digital Media Center\", contribute to instruction and research in the University and beyond. Special emphasis is placed on ensuring accessibility in both the short and long term to the academic community and to the general public interested in matters of heritage preservation. An additional distinctive project is the production of the \"Index to Hebrew Periodicals,\" a database of Hebrew-language articles and periodicals.\n\nThe Library collection comprises over two million items, including books and periodicals (in printed and digital formats), online databases in a variety of disciplines, maps and other cartographic material, films, audio recordings, pictures and archival material. All Library items may be searched and retrieved by means of \"OneSearch\" - a unified search box in the Library web site.\n\nThe Library's central collections include:\n\nIn addition to the above, varied collections of digital photographs, as well as the Database for Israeli Theater Archives, are accessible through the Library's “Digital Media Center.”\n\n, some 160 computer stations are available to Library visitors for searching and retrieving information. \nThe Library's resources are available to the University community from off-campus as well.\nThe Library has several helpdesks: Circulation and Interlibrary Loan; Reference; Reserves-Media and Periodicals. All helpdesks are concentrated in the entry level.\n\nUsers may also get assistance from the remote reference service, including replies via electronic mail, telephone and online conversations (“chat”). The Library also provides a service for photocopying, scanning and color printing, CD burning and document binding. Within the Library building there is access to wireless Internet.\n\nThere is free admission to the Library for visitors, including high-school students from 10th grade and up. Most Library collections are freely accessible. There is a charge for requesting assistance from the librarians for locating materials.\n\nThe Library's location has changed over the years since it first opened in 1963, in the High School in Edelstein House on Y.L. Peretz Street in the Hadar HaCarmel neighborhood.\n\nIn the mid-1960s the Library – in the framework of the “University Institute of Haifa” - moved to a new location in the Haifa city school “Ironi Heh”, on Bikurim Street in Hadar HaCarmel. From 1969 until summer 1973 the Library was temporarily transferred to the upper floor of the Multi-Purpose Building on the new University campus.\n\nIn the early 1970s, construction of the Library in its current location commenced, as part of the project for establishing the University, designed by Oscar Niemeyer. In keeping with the architect's conception of a “university under one roof,” the Library was founded as a central library serving all the faculties, constituting an academic center where people from varied disciplines would interact for mutual enrichment.\n\nProfessor Shmuel Sever, the Library's director at the time, devoted several months to planning a modern, large library that would serve well into the future. Architect Shlomo Gilad translated his concepts and vision into architectural plans. Oscar Niemeyer designed the building in which the Library is located in the style of “Brutalistic architecture,” characterized by building with bare concrete in both simple and compound forms to create broad, open spaces that facilitate interior division and future expansion. This approach was common between the 1950s and mid-1980s, due to the influence of Le Corbusier.\n\nThe planning and construction work continued several years, and as luck would have it, concluded just at the unexpected outbreak of the Yom Kippur War. Despite the constraints and the lack of male workers for putting up shelves, maintenance and carrying loads, Prof. Shmuel Sever requested that the Library move to its new quarters as scheduled. And in fact, after detailed planning and despite the severe shortage of workers, librarians and books alike were transferred to the new location.\nReaders could now make use of a large, high-ceilinged reading room (which was said to be, at the time, the largest in the Middle East), whose eastern façade was composed entirely of windows facing onto the splendid view of Haifa Bay. The reading room itself held tens of work tables and chairs, the angle of whose backrests had been selected from several models by a poll of readers.\n\nThe books themselves were housed in galleries on the Library's four levels. Broad corridors, stretching from east to west in the building, ensured maximal illumination. An explicit order from architect Gilad forbade closing these corridors, lest the daylight be blocked. New, brown carpets added warmth to the Library, and wood paneling on shelves and walls softened their grayish color.\n\nIt seemed, at the time, that the bookshelves would last forever, that the Library had no boundaries, and was destined to serve its patrons for many years. In fact, the Library that Niemeyer designed fulfilled its purpose for over thirty years. But at the beginning of the 21st century, the Library found itself too small and outdated to accommodate its growing collections and the advanced services and technologies it provided. It was not equipped to respond to changing research and teaching needs and its patrons' expectations of an inviting, friendly environment.\n\nProf. Baruch Kipnis, director of the Library from 2001-2005, initiated the idea of expanding and renovating the Library according to the planning principles that he set forth and the architectural program that he prepared along with the Library staff. His persuasive efforts succeeded in obtaining the agreement of the University's administration to support the idea of expansion and renovation.\n\nIn 2002, an architectural competition took place based on the principles and program that had been formulated. Architect Asaf Lerman was selected to carry out the planning and supervise the construction of a new wing. The project of erecting the building received impetus following receipt of a generous donation from the Nazarian family [see below]. Library director Oren Weinberg oversaw the construction work until its completion.\n\nLerman selected fashionable materials such as bare concrete, glass and wood, and planned the new wing in a neo-modernistic spirit, creating a successful dialog with the old wing built in the modernistic style of Niemeyer. Construction was completed in 2010. For his planning of the new wing, Architect Lerman was selected as one of five finalists for the 2010 Rechter Prize in architecture.\n\nRenovation of the original library wing, including reorganization of the Library entrance, interior spaces, study corners, a central service area and circulation desks, was completed in June 2012.\n\nIn 2007, Soraya and Younes Nazarian, leading members of the community of expatriate Iranian Jews in Los Angeles, made a generous donation to the University for the purpose of renovating and expanding the Library, including construction of a new wing.\n\nThe Nazarians are known for their philanthropic activities on behalf of the community in a variety of fields, including the arts, health and the development of institutions of higher education in the United States and Israel. The couple donates to educational institutions in Israel out of a conviction that education is essential for Israel's future. They believe that investment in education will improve not only the personal condition of each citizen, but also the economic situation of the whole nation.\n\nIn June 2007, Younes Nazarian received an honorary doctorate during the meeting of the University's Board of Governors, in recognition of his donation and commitment to the State of Israel and to Jews the world over.\n\nThe dedication ceremony for the new wing, officially named the “South Wing”, took place on 31 May 2011, at which time the Library was renamed the “Younes and Soraya Nazarian Library, University of Haifa.” On June 3, 2012 – during the 40th annual meeting of the University's Board of Governors and in the presence of the donors - an additional festive dedication ceremony was held to mark the conclusion of the Library renovation.\n\nFrom the time the Library opened in the early 1960s, it has developed in keeping with changes in the technological environment. A central change was the transition from use of the Dewey Decimal classification system to that of the Library of Congress, which was at the time unknown in Israel. This transition was led by Prof. Elhanan Adler and Aviva Shichor. Additional milestones were the computer revolution that the Library underwent from the end of the 1970s and the introduction of the Internet at the beginning of the 1990s.\n\nTechnological developments influenced the means of storing information, the Library catalog and databases on the one hand, and retrieval of information, on the other. The many transformations in the professional work of librarians and information specialists and in the use of the Library and its resources included remote access to the Library catalog and bibliographic databases, electronic periodicals and books, and remote reference services (by means of telephone, email and live conversation – Chat).\n\nThe influence of technological advancement is evident throughout the Library. The traditional card catalog was replaced in the 1980s by a computerized catalog, which itself evolved over years and became accessible via the Internet. Access to many databases was transformed from a local CD network to online formats. Most periodicals were converted to digital format, accessible from anywhere at any time. Collections of slides, photographs and products of University research were scanned and merged into the Digital Media Center. Over time, electronic books constitute an ever-larger proportion of the Library's collection.\n\nA unique project of the Library is the “Index to Hebrew Periodicals”, a multi-disciplinary tool that provides users access to academic articles as well as business and popular ones. The Index contains citations to hundreds of thousands of articles from selected periodicals, collections and daily newspapers in many fields: Judaica, literature, education, history, archeology, the arts, architecture, medicine, law, agriculture, nature, science, technology, society and the nation. Since its inception in 1977, the indexing project was transformed over the years from a printed format to a computerized one, and was eventually incorporated into the Library services available via the Internet.\n\nWith the opening of the 2009-2010 academic year, the Library's online services were unified under the “OneSearch” portal – based on the Ex Libris “Primo” system - providing a single entry point to all the Library's resources. The Library was the first in Israel to adopt Primo and to develop and integrate a Hebrew interface (graphic design and text) for the portal, in line with the expectations and requests of users.\n\nSince 2007, the Library has regularly carried out assessment and measurement activities aimed at determining the quality of its services based on user feedback. For this purpose, a number of activities are performed, including surveys, audits and focus groups. These examine varied aspects of the Library's services: the physical environment, identifying user needs, collection evaluation, evaluation of user interfaces to the Library's content and services – both within the Library and via remote access.\n\nOnce every three years the Library conducts a \"LibQUAL survey\". LibQUAL, established and managed by the Association of Research Libraries (ARL) in the United States and Canada, is part of an international survey that has so far been carried out in more than 1000 academic libraries worldwide. The University of Haifa Library is the first Israeli library to participate, and assisted in developing the Hebrew version of the survey.\n\nThe Library maintains a dedicated website that publicizes all the evaluation and measuring activities, the results of surveys, and actions taken by the Library in light of the results.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33593324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33593324", "title": "Žaneta Jaunzeme-Grende", "text": "Žaneta Jaunzeme-Grende\n\nŽaneta Jaunzeme-Grende (born 10 March 1964) is a Latvian politician and businesswoman. She is a member of the National Alliance, and was the Minister for Culture in the current centre-right coalition government. She was President of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce from 2008 to 2011.\n\nShe speaks Latvian, English, and Russian.\n"}
