{"id": "33424080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33424080", "title": "Abane language", "text": "Abane language\n\nAbane (Avane), or Baniwa of Guainia, is an Arawakan language of Venezuela with a few speakers in Brazil.\n\nAikhenvald counts ≈ 200 speakers while \"Ethnologue\" reports the language is extinct; \"Ethnologue\" counts Xie Warekena in Brazil as a dialect of Guarequena rather than of Abane as in Aikhenvald, but this only amounts to ten speakers.\n\nAbane is one of several languages in the region called \"Baniwa\". \"Ethnologue\" (2015) distinguishes \"Baniva\" for the Baniwa of Guainia and \"Baniwa\" for the Baniwa of Içana, but they are merely spelling variants, and either spelling may be used for either language. \n"}
{"id": "40912579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40912579", "title": "Accent perception", "text": "Accent perception\n\nAccents are the distinctive variations in the pronunciation of a language. They can be native or foreign, local or national and can provide information about a person’s geographical locality, socio-economic status and ethnicity. The perception of accents is normal within any given group of language users and involves the categorisation of speakers into social groups and entails judgments about the accented speaker, including their status and personality. Accents can significantly alter the perception of an individual or an entire group, which is an important fact considering that the frequency that people with different accents are encountering one another is increasing, partially due to inexpensive international travel and social media. As well as affecting judgments, accents also affect key cognitive processes (e.g., memory) that are involved in a myriad of daily activities. The development of accent perception occurs in early childhood. Consequently, from a young age accents influence our perception of other people, decisions we make about when and how to interact with others, and, in reciprocal fashion, how other people perceive us. A better understanding of the role accents play in our (often inaccurate) appraisal of individuals and groups, may facilitate greater acceptance of people different from ourselves and lessen discriminatory attitudes and behavior.\n\nSocial identity theory is a theory that describes intergroup behaviour based on group membership. Markers of group membership can be arbitrary, e.g., coloured vests, a flip of a coin, etc., or non-arbitrary, e.g., gender, language, race, etc. Accent is a non-arbitrary marker for group membership that is potentially more salient than most other non-arbitrary markers such as race and visual cues in general. One component of social identity theory states that members of the same group will treat and judge other members of their group (in-group members) preferentially compared to those who are not in their group (out-group members). This phenomenon is called in-group bias and when applied to accents is called the own-accent bias. There are many examples of the discrimination of out-groups based on language, e.g., the banning of the public speaking of German in the United States during World War I and the Al-Anfal Campaign, however, there are also examples of discrimination based on accent. Some of these instances date back many several millennia, for example, in the Bible in Judges 12:5-6 the following quote depicting the mass-killing of a people based on their accent appears:\n\nWhereas some are more recent, for example, in his play Pygmalion George Bernard Shaw famously recognised the disparities of accent (even in a native context) when he wrote:\n\nAccents function as markers of social group membership broadcasting information about individuals' in-group/out-group status. However, unlike other seemingly more conspicuous non-arbitrary markers (e.g., race), the accent an individual has is not outwardly obvious to a casual observer unless the individual speaks and is within hearing range of the observer. This begs the question of how such an easily hidden characteristic became a marker of group membership in the first place. One predominant account suggests an answer to this conundrum lies in evolutionary history. In modern societies people of many different racial backgrounds live together, which provides modern humans with the chance to experience a wide range of races and racial characteristics (e.g., different coloured skin). However, in early societies neighbouring communities could not travel far except by walking, thus they were likely to look similar. As such, a natural selection pressure may have existed that favoured social attention to accents, which functioned as an honesty signal (i.e., an honest signal of an individual's group membership), so individuals could easily identify in-group members from the potential threat of out-group members. In comparison, the selection pressure to socially attend to race was less relevant.\n\nThe \"own-accent bias\" is the inclination toward, and more positive judgement of, individuals with the same accent as yourself compared to those with a different accent. There are two main theories that attempt to explain this bias: affective processing and prototype representation.\n\nThe affective processing approach proposes that the positive-bias exhibited for others who speak with an own-accent is produced by a (potentially unconscious) emotional reaction. Put simply, people like others who have the same accent as themselves for that precise reason; they like it. This theory has developed, and draws support, from neuroscientific research investigating affective prosody (a key component underlying accent) and vocal emotion, which has found activation (predominantly in the right hemisphere) in important brain regions associated with the processing of emotion. These regions include:\nAdditional to the processing of memory and emotion, the amygdalae have important roles as “relevance detectors\" for the discernment of relevant social information. Therefore, these brain regions that deal with social relevance and vocal emotion are probable candidates for a neural network concerning accent-based group membership that would drive the affective processing of accents.\n\nThe prototype representation approach stems from theories developed in the linguistics and cognitive psychology domains. It proposes that there are “prototypes” (i.e., internal representations) stored in the brain, which incoming information from the senses is compared against to facilitate categorisation. Therefore, the own-accent bias is due to the fact that own-accents are similar to the prototype of \"accent\" hence are processed and categorised more easily than those other-accents that are dissimilar. This idea is supported by research showing that the further away a voice is from the average, (which is assumed to be a good representation of the internal prototype of accent) the more distinctive and less attractive it is rated, and the more activity is produced in the temporal voice areas (areas of the brain that deal with voice perception and accents).\n\nRecent research has investigated the effects of accent on earwitness memory (similar to eyewitness memory but based on what a person heard rather than saw). The study showed that ear-witnesses were more likely to mistake offenders with a different accent than an own-accent, and that their judgements were less confident in reporting other-accent offenders compared to those with their own-accent. The authors of the study present similarities between the own-accent bias and the own-race bias, which states that faces are more easily recognised by people of the same race (own-race) because those people have more experience (higher expertise) with them compared to faces of different races (other-race). This is similar to the prototype representation theory of the own-accent bias (see above). Another study investigated the effects of teacher-accent on student learning. This research found that students recalled more information from lectures with teachers who had their own-accent and rated the own-accent teachers more favourably compared to those with an other-accent. Additionally, research focussing on the development of the own-accent bias in infants and children has shown that children are not only consistently able to differentiate between foreign- and native-accents but that infants and children prefer individuals who have a native accent compared to a foreign one, leading them to change their behaviour based on a speakers accent (e.g., accepting a toy off a native-accented speaker rather than a foreign-accented speaker).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41297606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41297606", "title": "Africa Check", "text": "Africa Check\n\nAfrica Check is a nonprofit, non-partisan fact checking group established in June 2012 with the stated aim of improving news gathering in Africa. Its website is partnered with the School of Journalism at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg, South Africa to support the training of journalists on how to check the factual accuracy of statements by politicians and media outlets.\n\nAfrica Check was launched after it won an International Press Institute news innovation contest sponsored by Google. It was modelled after FactCheck.org and PolitiFact.com and is the first website in South Africa to focus only on fact checking.\n\nThe main team is based in Johannesburg at the Journalism Department of the University of the Witwatersrand, where they currently have a full-time fact-checking team of five members, along with fundraising, training and research services and a community manager.\n\nIn October 2015, Africa Check established a fact-checking team based at the EJICOM school of journalism in Dakar, Senegal. The Dakar team operates Africa Check's French-language website. Africa Check has also opened regional offices in Lagos, Nigeria (in 2016) and Nairobi, Kenya (in 2017).\n\nAfrica Check is known for its work on fact-checking viral claims made about South Africa on Facebook, such as a claim in 2013 that South Africa was \"worse off now than 19 years ago.\" Sixteen claims about South Africa were investigated including claims such as \"unemployment in South Africa has increased by over 60% in the past 19 years\", South Africa has the highest rate of rape in the world, and South Africa is one of the top-ten countries in the world for murder. Regarding these claims, Africa Check found that South Africa's unemployment rate has increased from 20% to 24.7% during the last 19 years, an increase of 23.5%, so the claim of a 60% increase was false. They could not substantiate the claim that South Africa has the highest rate of rape in the world, but they reported that it is probably true that South Africa is in the top ten countries for highest murder rates.\n\nAfrica Check has also debunked claims of \"herbal cures\" for HIV/AIDS that have spread in Africa, noting that there is no evidence for the effectiveness of any of these claimed remedies.\n\nIn South Africa, there has been some debate about whether South African farm attacks are an organised genocide against white South African farmers or whether the rate of attacks and murders is consistent with the overall murder rate in South Africa. Africa Check reported that the current murder rate of whites is less than the murder rate of other racial groups in South Africa and that it is less than the murder rate for whites from 1979 to 1991, which was during the apartheid era and drawing into question the claim of genocide.\n\nOriginating with the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2008, the claim that 80% of South Africans use traditional healers has been spread by the news media worldwide. Africa Check found that this claim was greatly exaggerated and that the claim could be traced to an unsubstantiated claim made in 1983 WHO documents.\n\nAfrica Check has objected to the notion of claiming particular places are \"rape capitals of the world\". According to Africa Check, it is not possible to make such comparisons because different countries have different legal definitions of rape, methods of collecting data of rapes, and levels of reporting rape. All of these issues make exact comparisons of rape rates across countries because the data a currently too unreliable.\n\nIt also has a dedicated platform - the InfoFinder - with reliable sources of information from different African countries.\n\nAfrica Check has been running the continent's first African Fact-checking Awards. In their first year, 2014, the awards were won by two journalists from Ghana, and the runners-up came from Kenya and Zambia. In 2015, the winner came from Nigeria and runner-up from South Africa. In 2016, Africa Check created an awards category for reports published in the Francophone media. That year, the awards were won by journalists from Cameroon and Côte d'Ivoire, with runners-up from Nigeria and Swaziland.\n\nIn 2017, Africa Check added a student category, as fact-checking continues to become an essential skill.\n\nIdentify the exact claim that is to be verified. Contact the person who makes the claim to ask them about the source or proof of their claim. Then fact-checkers must turn to experts in the field to add nuance and context. Afterwards authors write their reports, setting out the evidence step by step and indicating the sources used. The manuscript is passed on to an editor for review. Only one a verdict is agreed, is the article published.\n\nAfrica Check is registered as a non-profit trust in South Africa and as a community interest company in Britain.\n\nAfrica Check was established by a £45,648 initial grant in 2012. The Agence France-Presse (AFP) Foundation, and the University of the Witwatersrand provided funding.\n\nIn 2016, it raised slightly below £473,000. In 2016, Africa Check's major donors were the Shuttleworth Foundation (26% of income), Omidyar Network (23%), the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (13%), the Open Society Foundation for South Africa (OSF-SA) (12%), and the Millennium Trust (9%), and Agence France-Presse (5%). In 2016, Africa Check earned about 6% of its income from TRI Facts, its commercial Training, Research & Information unit, which provides commercial services. Other non-profits make up smaller percentages of income, and about 1% of income comes from individual donors.\n"}
{"id": "4111449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4111449", "title": "Annio da Viterbo", "text": "Annio da Viterbo\n\nAnnius of Viterbo (; 13 November 1502) was an Italian Dominican friar, scholar, and historian, born Giovanni Nanni (Nenni) in Viterbo. He is now remembered for his fabrications.\n\nHe entered the Dominican Order early in life. He obtained the degree of Master of Theology from the \"studium generale\" at Santa Maria sopra Minerva, the forerunner of the College of Saint Thomas and the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\". He served as lector at the \"studium\" sometime before 1466.\n\nHe was highly esteemed by Sixtus IV and Alexander VI; the latter made him Master of the Sacred Palace in 1499.\n\nAs a linguist, he spuriously claimed to be skilled in the Oriental languages. Walter Stephens says: \"His expertise in Semitic philology, once celebrated even by otherwise sober ecclesiastical historians, was entirely fictive.\" Annius also claimed to be able to read Etruscan.\n\nIn perhaps his most elaborate pseudo-archeological charade, in the autumn of 1493 he undertook a well-publicized dig at Viterbo, during which marble statues of some of the most dramatic of the mythical figures associated with the city's \"legendarium\" appeared to be unearthed; they had all been \"salted\" in the site beforehand.\n\nHe is best known for his \"Antiquitatum Variarum\", originally titled the \"Commentaria super opera diversorum auctorum de antiquitatibus loquentium\" (\"Commentaries on the Works of Various Authors Discussing Antiquity\") and often known as \"the Antiquities of Annius\". In this work, he published alleged writings and fragments of several pre-Christian Greek and Latin profane authors, destined to throw an entirely new light on ancient history. He claimed to have discovered them at Mantua.\n\nAmong his numerous other writings were \"De futuris Christianorum triumphis in Turcos et Saracenos\" (\"Future Triumphs of the Christians over the Turks and the Saracens\"), a commentary on the Apocalypse, dedicated to Sixtus IV, to Christian kings, princes, and governments, and \"Tractatus de imperio Turcorum\" (\"The Empire of the Turks\"). The author claims that Mohammad is the Antichrist, and that the end of the world will take place when the Christians will have overcome the Jews and the Muslims, an event which did not appear to him to be far distant.\n\nOne influential suggestion he made -- in his commentary on the \"Breviarium de Temporibus\" of Pseudo-Philo the Jew -- was that the genealogy of Jesus in the Gospel of Luke traced the lineage through the father of Mary.\n\nThe more important of his unpublished works are: \n\nHe was notorious for his text depicting the history and topography of ancient Rome from the \"most ancient\" authors. His \"Auctores vetustissimi\" printed at Rome, 1498, was an anthology of seventeen purportedly classical texts, all of which he had written himself, with which he embarks in the gigantic attempt to write a universal history of the post-diluvian West civilization, where the Etruscan people and the town of Viterbo/Etruria, custodian of the original knowledge of divine nature, takes on the leading role in the march of Man towards the future. Annio's map of Rome as founded by Romulus is a loose interpretation of one of his own forgeries. It prominently features Vicus Tuscus, the home of the Etruscans, whom Annio and his fellow Viterbans claimed as their ancestors. Part of the forgeries were motivated by a desire to prove that Viterbo was the site of the Etruscan Fanum Voltumnae.\n\nIn a defense of the papal lending institution, the Monte di Pietà, published c. 1495 under the title \"Pro Monte Pietatis\", Annio contributed the essay \"Questiones due disputate super mutuo iudaico & ciuili & diuino\", arguing against the usury of the Jews.\n\nThe \"Antiquities\" met at once both with believers and with severe critics who accused him of willful interpolation, or even fabrication. The content was falsely attributed to Berosus, Fabius Pictor, Cato, Manetho and others. The spurious character of these \"historians\" of Annio, which he published both with and without commentaries, has long been admitted. The demolition of the forgeries owed much to Joseph Justus Scaliger.\n\nAnnio's forgeries began to unravel by the mid-16th century. In 1565–66, the humanist Girolamo Mei was engaged in a historiographical argument with Vincenzo Borghini, who presented a claim, for the occasion of the marriage of Francesco I de' Medici and Giovanna of Austria, that Florence was founded by Augustus. He based his claim on inscriptions reported by Annio da Viterbo. Mei, no friend to the Medici, challenged this opinion and questioned the authenticity of Annio's materials, in a brief Latin treatise (\"De origine urbis Florentiae\").\n\nThe volume \"Annio da Viterbo, Documenti e ricerche\" (Rome: Multigrafica Editrice for CNR, 1981) presents an unpublished work written by Annio: the \"Viterbiae historiae epitoma\" in the critical text edited by Giovanni Baffioni. The text is based on the manuscript Codex Vaticanus Latinus 6263 and represents the seventh and only extant book of the former work of Annius' \"Viterbia Historia\", composed of seven books in which the viterbian theologian writes the history of his municipal town ranging from its mythological origins (newly reinvented by Annius himself) until the times of pope Innocent VIII. The second part of the book, edited by Paola Mattiangeli, deals with his influence on High Renaissance myth and allegory. In particular, it refers to Annio's esoteric interests and his influence over a number of painted frescoes in the city of Viterbo characterized by Egyptian imagery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1317383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1317383", "title": "Argumentation theory", "text": "Argumentation theory\n\nArgumentation theory, or argumentation, is the interdisciplinary study of how conclusions can be reached through logical reasoning; that is, claims based, soundly or not, on premises. It includes the arts and sciences of civil debate, dialogue, conversation, and persuasion. It studies rules of inference, logic, and procedural rules in both artificial and real world settings.\n\nArgumentation includes deliberation and negotiation which are concerned with collaborative decision-making procedures. It also encompasses eristic dialog, the branch of social debate in which victory over an opponent is the primary goal. This art and science is often the means by which people protect their beliefs or self-interests—or choose to change them—in rational dialogue, in common parlance, and during the process of arguing.\n\nArgumentation is used in law, for example in trials, in preparing an argument to be presented to a court, and in testing the validity of certain kinds of evidence. Also, argumentation scholars study the \"post hoc\" rationalizations by which organizational actors try to justify decisions they have made irrationally.\n\nArgumentation is one of four rhetorical modes (also known as \"modes of discourse\"), along with exposition, description, and narration. \n\n\nTypically an argument has an internal structure, comprising the following\n\nAn argument has one or more premises and one conclusion.\n\nOften classical logic is used as the method of reasoning so that the conclusion follows logically from the assumptions or support. One challenge is that if the set of assumptions is inconsistent then anything can follow logically from inconsistency. Therefore, it is common to insist that the set of assumptions be consistent. It is also good practice to require the set of assumptions to be the minimal set, with respect to set inclusion, necessary to infer the consequent. Such arguments are called MINCON arguments, short for minimal consistent. Such argumentation has been applied to the fields of law and medicine. A second school of argumentation investigates abstract arguments, where 'argument' is considered a primitive term, so no internal structure of arguments is taken on account.\n\nIn its most common form, argumentation involves an individual and an interlocutor or opponent engaged in dialogue, each contending differing positions and trying to persuade each other. Other types of dialogue in addition to persuasion are eristic, information seeking, inquiry, negotiation, deliberation, and the dialectical method (Douglas Walton). The dialectical method was made famous by Plato and his use of Socrates critically questioning various characters and historical figures.\n\nArgumentation theory had its origins in foundationalism, a theory of knowledge (epistemology) in the field of philosophy. It sought to find the grounds for claims in the forms (logic) and materials (factual laws) of a universal system of knowledge. But argument scholars gradually rejected Aristotle's systematic philosophy and the idealism in Plato and Kant. They questioned and ultimately discarded the idea that argument premises take their soundness from formal philosophical systems. The field thus broadened.\n\nKarl R. Wallace's seminal essay, \"The Substance of Rhetoric: Good Reasons\" in the \"Quarterly Journal of Speech\" (1963) 44, led many scholars to study \"marketplace argumentation\" – the ordinary arguments of ordinary people. The seminal essay on marketplace argumentation is Ray Lynn Anderson and C. David Mortensen's \"Logic and Marketplace Argumentation\" \"Quarterly Journal of Speech\" 53 (1967): 143–150. This line of thinking led to a natural alliance with late developments in the sociology of knowledge. Some scholars drew connections with recent developments in philosophy, namely the pragmatism of John Dewey and Richard Rorty. Rorty has called this shift in emphasis \"the linguistic turn\".\n\nIn this new hybrid approach argumentation is used with or without empirical evidence to establish convincing conclusions about issues which are moral, scientific, epistemic, or of a nature in which science alone cannot answer. Out of pragmatism and many intellectual developments in the humanities and social sciences, \"non-philosophical\" argumentation theories grew which located the formal and material grounds of arguments in particular intellectual fields. These theories include informal logic, social epistemology, ethnomethodology, speech acts, the sociology of knowledge, the sociology of science, and social psychology. These new theories are not non-logical or anti-logical. They find logical coherence in most communities of discourse. These theories are thus often labeled \"sociological\" in that they focus on the social grounds of knowledge.\n\nIn general, the label \"argumentation\" is used by communication scholars such as (to name only a few) Wayne E. Brockriede, Douglas Ehninger, Joseph W. Wenzel, Richard Rieke, Gordon Mitchell, Carol Winkler, Eric Gander, Dennis S. Gouran, Daniel J. O'Keefe, Mark Aakhus, Bruce Gronbeck, James Klumpp, G. Thomas Goodnight, Robin Rowland, Dale Hample, C. Scott Jacobs, Sally Jackson, David Zarefsky, and Charles Arthur Willard, while the term \"informal logic\" is preferred by philosophers, stemming from University of Windsor philosophers Ralph H. Johnson and J. Anthony Blair. Harald Wohlrapp developed a criterion for \"validness\" (Geltung, Gültigkeit) as \"freedom of objections\".\n\nTrudy Govier, Douglas Walton, Michael Gilbert, Harvey Seigal, Michael Scriven, and John Woods (to name only a few) are other prominent authors in this tradition. Over the past thirty years, however, scholars from several disciplines have co-mingled at international conferences such as that hosted by the University of Amsterdam (the Netherlands) and the International Society for the Study of Argumentation (ISSA). Other international conferences are the biannual conference held at Alta, Utah sponsored by the (US) National Communication Association and American Forensics Association and conferences sponsored by the Ontario Society for the Study of Argumentation (OSSA).\n\nSome scholars (such as Ralph H. Johnson) construe the term \"argument\" narrowly, as exclusively written discourse or even discourse in which all premises are explicit. Others (such as Michael Gilbert) construe the term \"argument\" broadly, to include spoken and even nonverbal discourse, for instance the degree to which a war memorial or propaganda poster can be said to argue or \"make arguments\". The philosopher Stephen Toulmin has said that an argument is a claim on our attention and belief, a view that would seem to authorize treating, say, propaganda posters as arguments. The dispute between broad and narrow theorists is of long standing and is unlikely to be settled. The views of the majority of argumentation theorists and analysts fall somewhere between these two extremes.\n\nThe study of naturally occurring conversation arose from the field of sociolinguistics. It is usually called \"conversation analysis.\" Inspired by ethnomethodology, it was developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s principally by the sociologist Harvey Sacks and, among others, his close associates Emanuel Schegloff and Gail Jefferson. Sacks died early in his career, but his work was championed by others in his field, and CA has now become an established force in sociology, anthropology, linguistics, speech-communication and psychology. It is particularly influential in interactional sociolinguistics, discourse analysis and discursive psychology, as well as being a coherent discipline in its own right. Recently CA techniques of sequential analysis have been employed by phoneticians to explore the fine phonetic details of speech.\n\nEmpirical studies and theoretical formulations by Sally Jackson and Scott Jacobs, and several generations of their students, have described argumentation as a form of managing conversational disagreement within communication contexts and systems that naturally prefer agreement.\n\nThe basis of mathematical truth has been the subject of long debate. Frege in particular sought to demonstrate (see Gottlob Frege, The Foundations of Arithmetic, 1884, and \"Begriffsschrift\", 1879) that arithmetical truths can be derived from purely logical axioms and therefore are, in the end, logical truths. The project was developed by Russell and Whitehead in their \"Principia Mathematica\". If an argument can be cast in the form of sentences in Symbolic Logic, then it can be tested by the application of accepted proof procedures. This has been carried out for Arithmetic using Peano axioms. Be that as it may, an argument in Mathematics, as in any other discipline, can be considered valid only if it can be shown that it cannot have true premises and a false conclusion.\n\nPerhaps the most radical statement of the social grounds of scientific knowledge appears in Alan G.Gross's \"The Rhetoric of Science\" (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1990). Gross holds that science is rhetorical \"without remainder\", meaning that scientific knowledge itself cannot be seen as an idealized ground of knowledge. Scientific knowledge is produced rhetorically, meaning that it has special epistemic authority only insofar as its communal methods of verification are trustworthy. This thinking represents an almost complete rejection of the foundationalism on which argumentation was first based.\n\nInterpretive argumentation is a dialogical process in which participants explore and/or resolve interpretations often of a text of any medium containing significant ambiguity in meaning.\n\nInterpretive argumentation is pertinent to the humanities, hermeneutics, literary theory, linguistics, semantics, pragmatics, semiotics, analytic philosophy and aesthetics. Topics in conceptual interpretation include aesthetic, judicial, logical and religious interpretation. Topics in scientific interpretation include scientific modeling.\n\nLegal arguments are spoken presentations to a judge or appellate court by a lawyer, or parties when representing themselves of the legal reasons why they should prevail. Oral argument at the appellate level accompanies written briefs, which also advance the argument of each party in the legal dispute. A closing argument, or summation, is the concluding statement of each party's counsel reiterating the important arguments for the trier of fact, often the jury, in a court case. A closing argument occurs after the presentation of evidence.\n\nPolitical arguments are used by academics, media pundits, candidates for political office and government officials. Political arguments are also used by citizens in ordinary interactions to comment about and understand political events. The rationality of the public is a major question in this line of research. Political scientist Samuel L. Popkin coined the expression \"low information voters\" to describe most voters who know very little about politics or the world in general.\n\nIn practice, a \"low information voter\" may not be aware of legislation that their representative has sponsored in Congress. A low-information voter may base their ballot box decision on a media sound-bite, or a flier received in the mail. It is possible for a media sound-bite or campaign flier to present a political position for the incumbent candidate that completely contradicts the legislative action taken in the Capitol on behalf of the constituents. It may only take a small percentage of the overall voting group who base their decision on the inaccurate information, a voter block of 10 to 12%, to swing an overall election result. When this happens, the constituency at large may have been duped or fooled. Nevertheless, the election result is legal and confirmed. Savvy Political consultants will take advantage of low-information voters and sway their votes with disinformation because it can be easier and sufficiently effective. Fact checkers have come about in recent years to help counter the effects of such campaign tactics.\n\nPsychology has long studied the non-logical aspects of argumentation. For example, studies have shown that simple repetition of an idea is often a more effective method of argumentation than appeals to reason. Propaganda often utilizes repetition. Nazi rhetoric has been studied extensively as, inter alia, a repetition campaign.\n\nEmpirical studies of communicator credibility and attractiveness, sometimes labeled \"charisma,\" have also been tied closely to empirically-occurring arguments. Such studies bring argumentation within the ambit of persuasion theory and practice.\n\nSome psychologists such as William J. McGuire believe that the syllogism is the basic unit of human reasoning. They have produced a large body of empirical work around McGuire's famous title \"A Syllogistic Analysis of Cognitive Relationships\". A central line of this way of thinking is that logic is contaminated by psychological variables such as \"wishful thinking\", in which subjects confound the likelihood of predictions with the desirability of the predictions. People hear what they want to hear and see what they expect to see. If planners want something to happen they see it as likely to happen. If they hope something will not happen, they see it as unlikely to happen. Thus smokers think that they personally will avoid cancer, promiscuous people practice unsafe sex, and teenagers drive recklessly.\n\nStephen Toulmin and Charles Arthur Willard have championed the idea of argument fields, the former drawing upon Ludwig Wittgenstein's notion of language games, (Sprachspiel) the latter drawing from communication and argumentation theory, sociology, political science, and social epistemology. For Toulmin, the term \"field\" designates discourses within which arguments and factual claims are grounded. For Willard, the term \"field\" is interchangeable with \"community\", \"audience\", or \"readership\". Along similar lines, G. Thomas Goodnight has studied \"spheres\" of argument and sparked a large literature created by younger scholars responding to or using his ideas. The general tenor of these field theories is that the premises of arguments take their meaning from social communities.\n\nField studies might focus on social movements, issue-centered publics (for instance, pro-life versus pro-choice in the abortion dispute), small activist groups, corporate public relations campaigns and issue management, scientific communities and disputes, political campaigns, and intellectual traditions. In the manner of a sociologist, ethnographer, anthropologist, participant-observer, and journalist, the field theorist gathers and reports on real-world human discourses, gathering case studies that might eventually be combined to produce high-order explanations of argumentation processes. This is not a quest for some master language or master theory covering all specifics of human activity. Field theorists are agnostic about the possibility of a single grand theory and skeptical about the usefulness of such a theory. Theirs is a more modest quest for \"mid-range\" theories that might permit generalizations about families of discourses.\n\nBy far, the most influential theorist has been Stephen Toulmin, the Cambridge educated philosopher and student of Wittgenstein. What follows below is a sketch of his ideas.\n\nToulmin has argued that absolutism (represented by theoretical or analytic arguments) has limited practical value. Absolutism is derived from Plato's idealized formal logic, which advocates universal truth; thus absolutists believe that moral issues can be resolved by adhering to a standard set of moral principles, regardless of context. By contrast, Toulmin asserts that many of these so-called standard principles are irrelevant to real situations encountered by human beings in daily life.\n\nTo describe his vision of daily life, Toulmin introduced the concept of argument fields; in \"The Uses of Argument\" (1958), Toulmin states that some aspects of arguments vary from field to field, and are hence called \"field-dependent\", while other aspects of argument are the same throughout all fields, and are hence called \"field-invariant\". The flaw of absolutism, Toulmin believes, lies in its unawareness of the field-dependent aspect of argument; absolutism assumes that all aspects of argument are field invariant.\n\nToulmin's theories resolve to avoid the defects of absolutism without resorting to relativism: relativism, Toulmin asserted, provides no basis for distinguishing between a moral or immoral argument. In \"Human Understanding\" (1972), Toulmin suggests that anthropologists have been tempted to side with relativists because they have noticed the influence of cultural variations on rational arguments; in other words, the anthropologist or relativist overemphasizes the importance of the \"field-dependent\" aspect of arguments, and becomes unaware of the \"field-invariant\" elements. In an attempt to provide solutions to the problems of absolutism and relativism, Toulmin attempts throughout his work to develop standards that are neither absolutist nor relativist for assessing the worth of ideas.\n\nToulmin believes that a good argument can succeed in providing good justification to a claim, which will stand up to criticism and earn a favourable verdict.\n\nIn \"The Uses of Argument\" (1958), Toulmin proposed a layout containing six interrelated components for analyzing arguments:\n\n\nThe first three elements \"claim\", \"data\", and \"warrant\" are considered as the essential components of practical arguments, while the second triad \"qualifier\", \"backing\", and \"rebuttal\" may not be needed in some arguments.\n\nWhen first proposed, this layout of argumentation is based on legal arguments and intended to be used to analyze the rationality of arguments typically found in the courtroom; in fact, Toulmin did not realize that this layout would be applicable to the field of rhetoric and communication until his works were introduced to rhetoricians by Wayne Brockriede and Douglas Ehninger. Only after he published \"Introduction to Reasoning\" (1979) were the rhetorical applications of this layout mentioned in his works.\n\nToulmin's \"Human Understanding\" (1972) asserts that conceptual change is evolutionary. This book attacks Thomas Kuhn's explanation of conceptual change in \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\". Kuhn held that conceptual change is a revolutionary (as opposed to an evolutionary) process in which mutually exclusive paradigms compete to replace one another. Toulmin criticizes the relativist elements in Kuhn's thesis, as he points out that the mutually exclusive paradigms provide no ground for comparison; in other words, Kuhn's thesis has made the relativists' error of overemphasizing the \"field variant\" while ignoring the \"field invariant\", or commonality shared by all argumentation or scientific paradigms.\n\nToulmin proposes an evolutionary model of conceptual change comparable to Darwin's model of biological evolution. On this reasoning, conceptual change involves innovation and selection. Innovation accounts for the appearance of conceptual variations, while selection accounts for the survival and perpetuation of the soundest conceptions. Innovation occurs when the professionals of a particular discipline come to view things differently from their predecessors; selection subjects the innovative concepts to a process of debate and inquiry in what Toulmin considers as a \"forum of competitions\". The soundest concepts will survive the forum of competition as replacements or revisions of the traditional conceptions.\n\nFrom the absolutists' point of view, concepts are either valid or invalid regardless of contexts; from a relativists' perspective, one concept is neither better nor worse than a rival concept from a different cultural context. From Toulmin's perspective, the evaluation depends on a process of comparison, which determines whether or not one concept will provide improvement to our explanatory power more so than its rival concepts.\n\nIn \"Cosmopolis\" (1990), Toulmin traces the quest for certainty back to Descartes and Hobbes, and lauds Dewey, Wittgenstein, Heidegger and Rorty for abandoning that tradition.\n\nScholars at the University of Amsterdam in the Netherlands have pioneered a rigorous modern version of dialectic under the name \"pragma-dialectics\". The intuitive idea is to formulate clearcut rules that, if followed, will yield rational discussion and sound conclusions. Frans H. van Eemeren, the late Rob Grootendorst, and many of their students have produced a large body of work expounding this idea.\n\nThe dialectical conception of reasonableness is given by ten rules for critical discussion, all being instrumental for achieving a resolution of the difference of opinion (from Van Eemeren, Grootendorst, & Snoeck Henkemans, 2002, p. 182-183). The theory postulates this as an ideal model, and not something one expects to find as an empirical fact. The model can however serve as an important heuristic and critical tool for testing how reality approximates this ideal and point to where discourse goes wrong, that is, when the rules are violated. Any such violation will constitute a fallacy. Albeit not primarily focused on fallacies, pragma-dialectics provides a systematic approach to deal with them in a coherent way.\n\nDoug Walton developed a distinctive philosophical theory of logical argumentation built around a set of practical methods to help a user identify, analyze and evaluate arguments in everyday conversational discourse and in more structured areas such as debate, law and scientific fields. There are four main components: argumentation schemes, dialogue structures, argument mapping tools, and formal argumentation systems. The method uses the notion of commitment in dialogue as the fundamental tool for the analysis and evaluation of argumentation rather than the notion of belief. Commitments are statements that the agent has expressed or formulated, and has pledged to carry out, or has publicly asserted. According to the commitment model, agents interact with each other in a dialogue in which each takes its turn to contribute speech acts. The dialogue framework uses critical questioning as a way of testing plausible explanations and finding weak points in an argument that raise doubt concerning the acceptability of the argument.\n\nWalton's logical argumentation model takes a different view of proof and justification from that taken in the dominant epistemology in analytical philosophy, which is based on a justified true belief framework. On the logical argumentation approach, knowledge is seen as form of belief commitment firmly fixed by an argumentation procedure that tests the evidence on both sides, and use standards of proof to determine whether a proposition qualifies as knowledge. On this evidence-based approach, scientific knowledge must be seen as defeasible.\n\nEfforts have been made within the field of artificial intelligence to perform and analyze the act of argumentation with computers. Argumentation has been used to provide a proof-theoretic semantics for non-monotonic logic, starting with the influential work of Dung (1995). Computational argumentation systems have found particular application in domains where formal logic and classical decision theory are unable to capture the richness of reasoning, domains such as law and medicine. In \"Elements of Argumentation\", Philippe Besnard and Anthony Hunter show how classical logic-based techniques can be used to capture key elements of practical argumentation.\n\nWithin computer science, the ArgMAS workshop series (Argumentation in Multi-Agent Systems), the CMNA workshop series, and now the COMMA Conference, are regular annual events attracting participants from every continent. The journal \"Argument & Computation\" is dedicated to exploring the intersection between argumentation and computer science. ArgMining is a workshop series dedicated specifically to the related argument mining task.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58800", "title": "Austronesian languages", "text": "Austronesian languages\n\nThe Austronesian languages are a language family that is widely dispersed throughout Maritime Southeast Asia, Madagascar and the islands of the Pacific Ocean, with a few members in continental Asia. Austronesian languages are spoken by about 386 million people (4.9%), making it the fifth-largest language family by number of speakers, behind the Indo-European languages (46.3%), the Sino-Tibetan languages (20.4%), the Niger-Congo languages (6.9%), and the Afro-Asiatic languages. Major Austronesian languages with the highest number of speakers are Malay (Indonesian and Malaysian), Javanese, and Filipino (Tagalog). The family contains 1,257 languages, which is the second most of any language family.\n\nSimilarities between the languages spoken in the Malay Archipelago and the Pacific Ocean were first observed in 1706 by the Dutch scholar Adriaan Reland. In the 19th century, researchers (e.g. Wilhelm von Humboldt, Herman van der Tuuk)\nstarted to apply the comparative method to the Austronesian languages, but the first comprehensive and extensive study on the phonological history of the Austronesian language family including a reconstruction of Proto-Austronesian lexicon was made by the German linguist Otto Dempwolff. The term Austronesian itself was coined by Wilhelm Schmidt (German \"austronesisch\", based on Latin \"auster\" \"south wind\" and Greek \"νῆσος\" \"island\"). The family is aptly named, as the vast majority of Austronesian languages are spoken on islands: only a few languages, such as Malay and the Chamic languages, are indigenous to mainland Asia. Many Austronesian languages have very few speakers, but the major Austronesian languages are spoken by tens of millions of people and one Austronesian language, Malay (including both Indonesian and Malaysian variants), is spoken by 250 million people, making it the 8th most spoken language in the world. Approximately twenty Austronesian languages are official in their respective countries (see the list of major and official Austronesian languages).\n\nDifferent sources count languages differently, but Austronesian and Niger–Congo are the two largest language families in the world by the number of languages they contain, each having roughly one-fifth of the total languages counted in the world. The geographical span of Austronesian was the largest of any language family before the spread of Indo-European in the colonial period, ranging from Madagascar off the southeastern coast of Africa to Easter Island in the eastern Pacific. Hawaiian, Rapa Nui, and Malagasy (spoken on Madagascar) are the geographic outliers of the Austronesian family.\n\nAccording to Robert Blust (1999), Austronesian is divided in several primary branches, all but one of which are found exclusively on Taiwan. The Formosan languages of Taiwan are grouped into as many as nine first-order subgroups of Austronesian. All Austronesian languages spoken outside Taiwan (including its offshore Yami language) belong to the Malayo-Polynesian branch, sometimes called \"Extra-Formosan\".\n\nMost Austronesian languages lack a long history of written attestation, making the feat of reconstructing earlier stages – up to distant Proto-Austronesian – all the more remarkable. The oldest inscription in the Cham language, the Đông Yên Châu inscription, but with the influence of Indo-European languages, dated to the mid-6th century AD at the latest, is also the first attestation of any Austronesian language.\n\nIt is difficult to make generalizations about the languages that make up a family as diverse as Austronesian. Very broadly, one can divide the Austronesian languages into three groups: Philippine-type languages, Indonesian-type languages and post-Indonesian type languages :\n\n\nThe Austronesian languages tend to use reduplication (repetition of all or part of a word, as in wiki-wiki or agar-agar). Like many East and Southeast Asian languages, most Austronesian languages have highly restrictive phonotactics, with generally small numbers of phonemes and predominantly consonant–vowel syllables.\n\nThe Austronesian language family has been established by the linguistic comparative method on the basis of cognate sets, sets of words similar in sound and meaning which can be shown to be descended from the same ancestral word in Proto-Austronesian according to regular rules. Some cognate sets are very stable. The word for \"eye\" in many Austronesian languages is mata (from the most northerly Austronesian languages, Formosan languages such as Bunun and Amis all the way south to Māori). Other words are harder to reconstruct. The word for \"two\" is also stable, in that it appears over the entire range of the Austronesian family, but the forms (e.g. Bunun dusa; Amis tusa; Māori rua) require some linguistic expertise to recognise. The Austronesian Basic Vocabulary Database gives word lists (coded for cognateness) for approximately 1000 Austronesian languages.\n\nThe internal structure of the Austronesian languages is complex. The family consists of many similar and closely related languages with large numbers of dialect continua, making it difficult to recognize boundaries between branches. However, it is clear that the greatest genealogical diversity is found among the Formosan languages of Taiwan, and the least diversity among the islands of the Pacific, supporting a dispersal of the family from Taiwan or China. The first comprehensive classification to reflect this was .\n\nThe seminal article in the classification of Formosan—and, by extension, the top-level structure of Austronesian—is . Prominent Formosanists (linguists who specialize in Formosan languages) take issue with some of its details, but it remains the point of reference for current linguistic analyses, and is shown below. The Malayo-Polynesian languages are frequently included within Blust's Eastern Formosan branch due to their shared leveling of proto-Austronesian *t, *C to /t/ and *n, *N to /n/, their shift of *S to /h/, and vocabulary such as *lima \"five\" which are not attested in other Formosan languages.\n\nThere appear to have been two great migrations of Austronesian languages that quickly covered large areas, resulting in multiple local groups with little large-scale structure. The first was Malayo-Polynesian, distributed across the Philippines, Indonesia, and Melanesia. The Central Malayo-Polynesian languages are similar to each other not because of close genealogical relationships, but rather because they reflect strong substratum effects from non-Austronesian languages. The second migration was that of the Oceanic languages into Polynesia and Micronesia .\n\nIn addition to Malayo-Polynesian, thirteen Formosan families are broadly accepted. Debate centers primarily around the relationships between these families. Of the classifications presented here, links two families into a Western Plains group, two more in a Northwestern Formosan group, and three into an Eastern Formosan group, while also links five families into a Northern Formosan group. The Austronesian Basic Vocabulary Database (2008) accepts Northern, rejects Eastern, links Tsouic and Rukai (two highly divergent languages), and links Malayo-Polynesian with Paiwan in a Paiwanic group. splits Tsouic, and notes that Tsou, Rukai, and Puyuma fall outside of reconstructions of Proto-Austronesian.\n\nOther studies have presented phonological evidence for a reduced Paiwanic family of Paiwanic, Puyuma, Bunun, Amis, and Malayo-Polynesian, but this is not reflected in vocabulary. The Eastern Formosan peoples Basay, Kavalan, and Amis share a homeland motif that has them coming originally from an island called \"Sinasay\" or \"Sanasay\" . The Amis, in particular, maintain that they came from the east, and were treated by the Puyuma, amongst whom they settled, as a subservient group.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis classification retains Blust's East Formosan, and unites the other northern languages. Li proposes a Proto-Formosan (F0) ancestor and equates it with Proto-Austronesian (PAN), following the model in Starosta (1995). Rukai and Tsouic are seen as highly divergent, although the position of Rukai is highly controversial.\n\n\nIn 2009, Malcolm Ross proposed a new classification of the Austronesian language family based on morphological evidence from various Formosan languages. He proposed that the current reconstructions for Proto-Austronesian actually correspond to an intermediate stage, which he terms \"Proto-Nuclear Austronesian\". Notably, Ross' classification does not support the unity of the Tsouic languages, instead considering the Southern Tsouic languages of Kanakanavu and Saaroa to be a separate branch. This supports Chang's (2006) claim that Tsouic is not a valid group.\n\n\n\nBelow is a chart comparing list of numbers of 1-10 and thirteen words in Austronesian languages; spoken in Taiwan, the Philippines, the Mariana Islands, Indonesia, Malaysia, Chams or Champa (in Thailand, Cambodia, and Vietnam), East Timor, Papua, New Zealand, Hawaii, Madagascar, Borneo and Tuvalu.\n\nThe protohistory of the Austronesian \"people\" can be traced farther back through time than can that of the Proto-Austronesian language. From the standpoint of historical linguistics, the home (in linguistic terminology, \"Urheimat\") of the Austronesian languages is the main island of Taiwan, also known as Formosa; on this island the deepest divisions in Austronesian are found, among the families of the native Formosan languages. According to Robert Blust, the Formosan languages form nine of the ten primary branches of the Austronesian language family (). noted this when he wrote: ... the internal diversity among the... Formosan languages... is greater than that in all the rest of Austronesian put together, so there is a major genetic split within Austronesian between Formosan and the rest... Indeed, the genetic diversity within Formosan is so great that it may well consist of several primary branches of the overall Austronesian family.At least since , linguists have generally accepted that the chronology of the dispersal of languages within a given language family can be traced from the area of greatest linguistic variety to that of the least. For example, English in North America has large numbers of speakers, but relatively low dialectal diversity, while English in Great Britain has much higher diversity; such low linguistic variety by Sapir's thesis suggests a more recent origin of English in North America. While some scholars suspect that the number of principal branches among the Formosan languages may be somewhat less than Blust's estimate of nine (e.g. ), there is little contention among linguists with this analysis and the resulting view of the origin and direction of the migration. For a recent dissenting analysis, see .\n\nTo get an idea of the original homeland of the Austronesian \"people\", scholars can probe evidence from archaeology and genetics. Studies from the science of genetics have produced conflicting outcomes. Some researchers find evidence for a proto-Austronesian homeland on the Asian mainland (e.g., ), while others mirror the linguistic research, rejecting an East Asian origin in favor of Taiwan (e.g., ). Archaeological evidence (e.g., ) is more consistent, suggesting that the ancestors of the Austronesians spread from the South Chinese mainland to Taiwan at some time around 8,000 years ago. Evidence from historical linguistics suggests that it is from this island that seafaring peoples migrated, perhaps in distinct waves separated by millennia, to the entire region encompassed by the Austronesian languages . It is believed that this migration began around 6,000 years ago . However, evidence from historical linguistics cannot bridge the gap between those two periods. The view that linguistic evidence connects Austronesian languages to the Sino-Tibetan ones, as proposed for example by , is a minority one. As states:Implied in... discussions of subgrouping [of Austronesian languages] is a broad consensus that the homeland of the Austronesians was in Taiwan. This homeland area may have also included the P'eng-hu (Pescadores) islands between Taiwan and China and possibly even sites on the coast of mainland China, especially if one were to view the early Austronesians as a population of related dialect communities living in scattered coastal settlements.Linguistic analysis of the Proto-Austronesian language stops at the western shores of Taiwan; any related mainland language(s) have not survived. The only exceptions, the Chamic languages, derive from more recent migration to the mainland .\n\nGenealogical links have been proposed between Austronesian and various families of East and Southeast Asia.\n\nA link with the Austroasiatic languages in an 'Austric' phylum is based mostly on typological evidence. However, there is also morphological evidence of a connection between the conservative Nicobarese languages and Austronesian languages of the Philippines. Paul K. Benedict extended the Austric proposal to include the Tai–Kadai and Hmong–Mien families, but this has not been followed by other linguists.\n\nA competing Austro-Tai proposal linking Austronesian and Tai–Kadai is supported by Weera Ostapirat, Roger Blench, and Laurent Sagart, and is based on the traditional comparative method. proposes a series of regular correspondences linking the two families and assumes a primary split, with Tai–Kadai speakers being the Austronesians who stayed behind in their Chinese homeland. suggests that, \"if\" the connection is valid, the relationship is unlikely to be one of two sister families. Rather, he suggests that proto-Tai–Kadai speakers were Austronesians who migrated to Hainan Island and back to the mainland from the northern Philippines, and that their distinctiveness results from radical restructuring following contact with Hmong–Mien and Sinitic.\n\nFrench linguist and Sinologist Laurent Sagart considers the Austronesian languages to be related to the Sino-Tibetan languages, and also groups the Tai–Kadai languages as more closely related to the Malayo-Polynesian languages. He also groups the Austronesian languages in a recursive-like fashion, placing Tai–Kadai as a sister branch of Malayo-Polynesian. His methodology has been found to be spurious by his peers.\n\nSeveral linguists have proposed that Japanese may be a relative of the Austronesian family. Some linguists think it is more plausible that Japanese might have instead been influenced by Austronesian languages, perhaps by an Austronesian substratum. Those who propose this scenario suggest that the Austronesian family once covered the islands to the north as well as to the south. Alexander Vovin calls his reconstruction of Proto-Japanese suggestive of a Southeast Asian origin of the Japonic languages. Several Japanese linguists classify Japanese as \"Para-Austronesian\".\n\nThe linguist Ann Kumar believes that some Austronesians migrated to Japan, possibly an elite-group from Java and had a great cultural and linguistic impact on the creation of the Japanese people.\n\nIt has recently been proposed that the Austronesian and the Ongan protolanguage are the descendants of an Austronesian–Ongan protolanguage . But this view is not supported by mainstream linguists and remains very controversial. Robert Blust (2014) criticizes Blevins' reconstruction.\n\nMost Austronesian languages have Latin-based writing systems today. Some non-Latin-based writing systems are listed below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35327326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35327326", "title": "Bible translations into Athabaskan languages", "text": "Bible translations into Athabaskan languages\n\nThe Athabaskan language family is divided into the Northern Athabaskan, Pacific Coast Athabaskan and Southern Athabaskan groups. The full Bible has been translated into two Athabaskan languages, and the complete New Testament in five more. Another five have portions of the Bible translated into them. There are no Pacific Coast Athabaskan languages with portions of the Bible translated into them.\n\nMark was translated by Alfred C. Garrioch and published in 1886 by the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge. A new translation/revision of Mark by Marshal and Jean Holdstock was published by the Canadian Home Bible League in 1976.\n\nThe Wycliffe Bible Translators affiliated Carrier Bible Translation Committee translated the whole New Testament into the Nak'albun/Dzinhubun dialect. This was published by the International Bible Society in 1995 as \"Yak'usda Ooghuni: 'Andidi Khuni Neba Lhaidinla-i.\" A second edition came out (at least electronically) in 2011 (this was published by Wycliffe Bible Translators)\n\nThey then worked on a Ulkatcho (Blackwater) dialect adaption, which was printed by Wycliffe Bible Translators in 2002 as \"Yak'usda Bughunek: K'andit Khunek Neba Lhaidinla\".\n\nMark's gospel was translated by Henry and Barbara Hilderbrandt into Northern Carrier/Babine. This was published by the Canadian Home Bible League in 1978.\n\nIn the Chipewyan, or Dene Suline language, of central Canada William West Kirkby's translation of the Gospels appeared in 1878 and the whole New Testament in 1881. Henry Faraud may, at least in the beginning, also been involved with this translation.\n\nHab. ii. 20., Psa. cxxii. 1., Psa. xix. 14, 15., Phil. i. 2., St. Matt. iii. 2., Isa. xl. 3., St. Luke ii. 10, 11., Psa. li. 3., Psa. li. 9., St. Luke xv. 18, 19., II. Cor. xiii. 14. and the Lord's prayer were translated into Deg Xinag by John Wight Chapman, Paul Hasyan and Isaac Fisher and printed in an Anglican prayer book \"Order for daily Morning Prayer,\" in 1896.\n\nThe New Testament and Genesis have been translated into Dogrib.\n\nWycliffe Bible Translators has had teams working in Canada's Dogrib language off and on since the 1960s. Jaap and Morine Feenstra, the fourth team on the project, began to work on the Dogrib project in 1985. Wycliffe Bible Translators Vic and Anita Monus joined them later. The entire New Testament was drafted, community checked and rechecked by a consultant between 1995 and 2000. The translation team (including Mary Louise Bouvier White, Elizabeth Mackenzie, Mary Siemens, and perhaps others) was headed by Jaap Feenstra of Wycliffe Bible Translators. The complete New Testament in Dogrib (Nǫhtsı̨ Nı̨htł'è, Zezì wegǫ̀hlı̨ tł'axǫǫ̀) was dedicated on August 23, 2003 in Rae, Northwest Territories.\n\nThe first portions of the Bible available in Gwich'in language (Athabaskan language family) of Canada was the Gospels and 1-3 John. This was translated by Archdeacon Robert McDonald of the Church Missionary Society in 1874. The whole New Testament, also McDonald's translation, was printed in 1884. In 1886, he proceeded with the Old Testament. A small edition of Genesis, Exodus and Leviticus was published in 1890 by Archdeacon (afterwards Bishop) Reeve, and the Pentateuch was completed in 1891. In 1892 Joshua to Ruth, edited by Rev. C. G. Wallis (C.M.S.), was published, and in 1895 1'st Samuel was added. In 1897 the whole Bible was in the press under the care of McDonald, but owing to delay in communication printing only reached Job in 1898, when McDonald came home to see it through. First consignment of 100 Bibles, 100 Old Testaments, and 100 New Testaments were shipped to Bishop Bompas in February 1899, and the rest of the edition was taken with him by Archdeacon McDonald on his return in the same year. A corrected edition of the New Testament, prepared by C.E. Whittaker and B. Totty was published by the British and Foreign Bible Society in 1920. Richard J. Mueller, from Wycliffe Bible Translators produced a modern translation of Acts. Meggie and Pierre DeMers (also from Wycliffe) continued Mueller's work, and together with Mary Rose Gamboa, Katherine Peter, David Salmon, Judy Erick, Fannie Gimmel, Addie Shewfelt and Ethel Simple completed the translation of the New Testament. This was published as \"\"Vit'eegwijyahchy'aa: Vagwandak Nizii\" in 2011.\n\nCrispinus Rossi translated parts of the Old and New Testaments into Koyukon, the manuscripts however were never published. Jules Jette also translated selections from the Old and New Testaments into Koyukon, but they were also never published. Copies of both the Rossi and Jette manuscripts are available at the Alaska Native Language Center archive. Jules L. Prevost translated selections of the book of Common Prayer, which includes many Bible verses.\n\nDavid and Kay Henry, of Wycliffe Bible Translators, translated selections from the gospel of John (published by Wycliffe in 1968), Mark, and Galatians (published in 1974) into Central Koyukon, and Mark into Upper Koyukon dialect. Eliza Jones was working with them for at least some of the translations\n\nWilliam C. Bompas's translation of 1'st John was published in 1855. Mark was published in 1874. The four gospels were published in 1883 in a Latin script by the British and Foreign Bible Society. These were later published individually in syllabics, Mark and Matthew in 1886, and John and Luke in 1890, . His translation of the rest of the New Testament, transliterated into syllabics by William D. Reeve was published in 1891 by the British and Foreign Bible Society.\n\nThe Canadian Bible Society published a new translation of the gospel of John in 1972, followed by Mark in 1973. These books were translated by Philip G. Howard.\n\nT. Thorman transalatd some passages from the Bible. They were never published, and the only extant copy is a hand-written notebook that is owned by the Archives of British Columbia. It was completed after 1897 but the exact date is not known.\n\nUpper Tanana language is part of the Athabaskan language family. Mark's gospel (T'oodiht'aiy Aandeegn' Suu'mark Utneetł'adn Haa') was published in the Upper Tanana language by the American Bible Society in 1966. It was translated by Paul Milanowski and Donald Joe (Both of Wycliffe Bible Translators). 1 Timothy, translated by Paul and Trudy Milanowski was published in 1970 by Wycliffe Bible Translators. Paul Milanowski and Alfred John then translated I and II Thessalonians, I and II Timothy, Titus, and Philemon, which was published together under the title \"T'oodiht'aiy Aandeegn\"' in 1972.\n\nMark and Genesis has been translated into Chilcotin.\n\nWycliffe Bible Translators published a book of hymns and Bible verses in 1965.\n\nMissionary Crusader, Lubbock, Texas published an Apache language translation' of John, James, and 1 John in 1958.\n\nAfter translating the Navajo Bible, Faye Edgerton learned Apache, and together with Faith Hill, and the Apache's Celena Perry, Britton Goode, Johnson Ethelbah, and Happy Moses, translated the New Testament into the Western Apache language. The Apache New Testament was completed, and presented to President Johnson in 1966.\n\nLeonard P. Brink, a Christian Reformed missionary working at Rehoboth, New Mexico, translated the first portions of the Bible into Navajo. His translations of Genesis and Mark were published by the American Bible Society in 1910. Presbyterian missionaries John Butler, Alexander Black and F.G. Mitchell translated short portions, and in 1917 after collaborative work the American Bible Society published in one volume portions from Genesis, Exodus, Psalms, Jonah, Isaiah, Mark, Luke, John, Romans, First Corinthians, and Revelation, as \"God Bîzad\". In 1937 Acts was added, and it was republished as \"God Bizaad\" (God's Word)\n\nWork only began in earnest, however, when Faye Edgerton joined Wycliffe Bible Translators in 1944. She and Geronimo Martin revised the older translations, and completed most of the New Testament. The Corinthian epistles were translated by William Goudberg and Jacob Kamps of the Christian Reformed Church. The New Testament was published in 1956, and became an instant bestseller among the tribe. The complete Bible, under the name \"Diyin God Bizaad\", was printed for the first time in 1985. A revision was published by the American Bible Society in 2000.\n\nIt uses the borrowed English word \"God\" for God, rather than the Navajo \"Bégochiddy\", which was deemed unacceptable.\n\nNavajo was the sixth Native American language to have the complete Bible translated into it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1518543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1518543", "title": "Bible translations into Welsh", "text": "Bible translations into Welsh\n\nBible translations into Welsh have existed since at least the 15th century, but the most widely used translation of the Bible into Welsh for several centuries was the 1588 translation by William Morgan, as revised in 1620. The \"Beibl Cymraeg Newydd\" (\"new Welsh bible\") was published in 1988 and revised in 2004. Beibl.net is a new translation in colloquial Welsh which was recently completed.\n\nSeveral 19th century sources mention that a translation from the Latin Vulgate was in existence in 1470: for example Bishop Richard Davies claimed to have seen, as a boy, such a translation in a manuscript in the house (named Celydd Ifan) of an uncle. However, Professor Glanmor Williams dismisses the theory that the whole Bible had been translated into Welsh before William Morgan's Bible appeared in 1588.\n\nFollowing the English Reformation, translations were made directly from the Greek versions. In 1551 Salesbury was responsible for the publication of the first substantial portion of the Scriptures to appear in Welsh, entitled \"Kynniver llith a ban\", which was a translation of the Gospels and Epistles appointed to be read in Church on Sundays and Holy-days.\n\n(Full title: \"Kynniver llith a ban or yscrythur lan ac a ddarlleïr yr Eccleis pryd Commun y Sulieu a'r Gwylieu trwy'r vlwyddyn: o Cambericiat W.S.\"\n\"As many lessons and verses from the holy scriptures as are to be read [in] church at the time of Communion on Sundays and holy days through the year: from the Welsh translation of William Salesbury\")\n\nIn 1563 a law was passed in the name of Queen Elizabeth I, which instructed the Anglican Bishops in Wales and Hereford to arrange for the Bible and the Book of Common Prayer to be translated into Welsh. The work was accomplished by Richard Davies, Bishop of St David's, his cantor Thomas Huet, and William Salesbury. They worked at the Bishop's palace in Carmarthen, where they translated the New Testament from Greek. The First Epistle to Timothy, Hebrews, James, and 1 and 2 Peter were translated by Richard Davies, and Revelation was translated by Thomas Huet. However most of the work was by William Salesbury. \n\nWilliam Salesbury translated the Book of Common Prayer from English, which was published, together with his translation of the Psalms from Hebrew, on 6 May 1567. The New Testament was issued on 7 October 1567. They were both published by Humphrey Toy and printed in London by Henry Denham.\n\nIn 1850 Robert Griffith, a bookseller in Caernarfon, published a new edition of Salesbury's New Testament which was printed in Caernarfon by James Rees and probably edited by the clergyman, Isaac Jones (1804-50). This was faithful to the original but the orthography was updated, and it was printed in a modern font to make it easier to read. \n\nThese have now been digitised by the Bible Society and are included in their app called \"ap Beibl\".\n\n Salesbury's New Testament was followed by William Morgan's translation of the whole Bible in 1588. Morgan soon began work on a revision of his 1588 Bible, which contained a number of printing errors (or on a new translation). William Morgan revised Salesbury's New Testament and Psalms, and completed the rest of the books of the Old Testament and the Apocrypha.\n\nAfter Morgan's death, Bishop Richard Parry and Dr John Davies continued the work with the aims of polishing the literary language, replacing forms considered too colloquial, and bringing the text into greater conformity with the King James Version of the English Bible of 1611. The revised version of the Bible was published in 1620. This edition is still known as William Morgan's translation, and it is this rather than the previous edition which was the standard Welsh Bible until the late 20th century, and continues to be used to this day. It occupies a similar place in the Welsh language to that of the venerated \"King James Version\" in English.\n\nThe early Bible editions were large volumes intended for use in churches; in 1630 a smaller edition called \"Y Beibl Bach\" (\"the little bible\"), intended for use in the home, was published, thus bringing scripture in Welsh into the hands of the laity.\n\nAn original copy of the Welsh Bible is displayed in St Asaph Cathedral, in St Asaph, North Wales. It was used at the investiture of Prince Charles as Prince of Wales in 1969.\n\nThe translation of the Bible into Welsh was important to the survival of the Welsh language. It had the effect, along with the Welsh translation of the Book of Common Prayer, of conferring status on Welsh as a liturgical language and a vehicle for worship. This in turn contributed to the language's continued use as a means of everyday communication down to the present day, despite the pressure of English.\n\nThe edition of the William Morgan Bible used today uses the modern orthography (spelling), updated by Professor Henry Lewis (1889-1968). He completed the New Testament in 1936. He then completed the main Bible in 1955, and it was printed by the British and Foreign Bible Society as \"Y Beibl\". He completed the Apocrypha in 1959, and this was printed by the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge as \"Yr Apocryffa\". These have now been digitised by the Bible Society and are included in their app called \"ap Beibl\".\n\nThe most recent editions of the William Morgan Bible (1955 edition) were printed by the Trinitarian Bible Society using the 1955 orthography.\n\n\"Salmau Cân\" (Metrical Psalms) is a translation of the 150 Psalms into free Welsh verse, suitable for congregational singing. It was the work of Edmund Prys (1544-1623), a poet, rector of Ffestiniog and Archdeacon of Merioneth. They were printed in London and first published with the 1621 Book of Common Prayer. Edmund Prys is mentioned by William Morgan as one of three who helped him in the preparation of his translation of his 1588 Bible. Many of the Psalms are still sung in Welsh places of worship.\n\nThomas Briscoe (1813-1895) translated Isaiah, Job, Psalms and Proverbs from Hebrew in Welsh, which were published between 1853 and 1855. His translation of the New Testament was published in 1894.\n\nWilliam Edwards (1848-1929), a Baptist College Principal, revised the William Morgan New Testament by reference to the Greek, which he called \"Cyfieithiad Newydd\" (\"New Version\"). It was published in four volumes in 1894, 1898, 1913 and 1915.\n\nA project was started by the Theological Branch of the Guild of Graduates (alumni) of the University of Wales, to translate the Bible into modern Welsh. A team of 53 scholars worked on New Testament book by book, and the results were printed in portions between 1921 and 1948. Additionally Amos and Hosea from the Old Testament were published in 1924. It was never published as a whole.\n\nThe Welsh author and one time Calvinist Methodist minister, Rev Islwyn Ffowc Elis translated the Gospel of Matthew into modern Welsh, which was published in Caernarfon in 1961. It was called \"Efengyl Mathew\" and subtitled \"Trosiad i gymraeg diweddar\".\n\nA new translation, \"Y Beibl Cymraeg Newydd\" (BCN), was published in 1988 (including the revised New Testament published in 1975 and the Psalms in 1979) and has largely replaced the William Morgan translation, although its publishers stated that it was not intended to supplant Morgan's translation, but merely as an alternative. It also included the Apocrypha. \n\nA revision, \"Y Beibl Cymraeg Newydd Diwygiedig\" (BCND) (the Revised New Welsh Bible), was released in March 2004, and the Apocryffa was printed in 2008. Professor John Tudno Williams and Professor S.I. Enoch were members of the New Testament Panel. The revision received attention after it was revealed that the new Bibles were printed and typeset in Korea and Scotland, respectively. This led Welsh Assembly member Nick Bourne to wonder why production wasn't carried out in Wales.\n\nIn 2005 an audio version of the BCND was produced by the Bible Society called \"Y Llais\". The parts of Jesus Christ and Paul are played by two well-known professional actors - Richard Elfyn and Rhys Parry Jones - and other prominent Welsh voices also feature, including Lisabeth Miles.\n\n\"Salmau Cân Newydd\" (New Metrical Psalms) is a new metrical version of the Psalms, based on the 2004 Welsh translation of the Bible, but also having regard to the original Hebrew, by Gwynn ap Gwilym (1950-2016), a Anglican priest in the Church in Wales. A variety of metres are used and appropriate tunes suggested. It was published by Gwasg Gomer (Gomer Press) in 2008.\n\nBoth the William Morgan and BCN versions are in literary Welsh; a translation in a more colloquial register was made by Arfon Jones as part of the beibl.net project. The complete Bible was printed in 2015 and is available from the Bible Society. It is also hosted in the Digital Bible Library. It is available on-line at bibles.org and for the YouVersion app.\n\n\n\nThe Bible in Welsh/Beibl Cymraeg:\n\nOther articles:\n"}
{"id": "856088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=856088", "title": "Block error", "text": "Block error\n\nA block error is a common type of error in certain types of digital television transmission, particularly those that use image compression. Its presence in a television image is a telltale sign that 1) the signal is broadcast digitally, as this type of error can not occur in analog transmission, and 2) that there is a significant amount of noise, as digital television is designed to tolerate a certain amount of interference. Block errors are usually detected, but not corrected, by the receiving device and are commonly displayed as empty black boxes in the television image.\n\nBecause of how television images are usually compressed, a block error in a single frame often results in black boxes in several subsequent frames. In the worst case, a few block errors per frame could render the video from a television broadcast unviewable.\n\nBlock errors are most common in digital satellite television, where bad weather or motion of the satellite dish can cause interference outside the broadcaster's control.\n\nBlock errors can occur at levels of interference where an analog transmission would be fuzzy but still viewable. Thus, block errors are a fine example of the consequences of trade offs in engineering. Although in ideal conditions, digital transmission far exceeds analog transmission in performance, below a certain threshold of signal to noise ratio, digital transmission becomes untenable.\n"}
{"id": "31470259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31470259", "title": "BookEnds", "text": "BookEnds\n\nBookEnds is a non-profit organization based in Southern California that helps children collect books and donate them to other children in areas of low literacy. It was founded in 1998 by the mother-and-son team of Robin and Brandon Keefe in Agoura Hills. Brandon, then eight years old and in the third grade, led his school class in a book drive to build a library at a local home for abused children.\n\nBookEnds became a non-profit organization in 2002, and Robin Keefe serves as its president. It \"recycles children's books\" through student-led book drives and donates them to schools and youth organizations that need them. In addition to its regular book drives, it holds an annual Scrabble challenge. The organization claims to have donated more than 2 million books to 500,000 children.\n\nBookEnds received Freeman, Freeman & Smiley Foundation Visions in Philanthropy Award in 2000, and the President's Volunteer Service Award from President George Bush in 2004. Brandon and BookEnds were featured in the 2006 book \"Passionaries\".\n\n"}
{"id": "35020497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35020497", "title": "Bu language", "text": "Bu language\n\nBu-Ninkada (Ibut, Abu, Jida) is a Plateau language of Nigeria. The two dialects, Bu and Ninkada, are ethnically distinct.\n"}
{"id": "33299938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33299938", "title": "Cheq Wong language", "text": "Cheq Wong language\n\nCheq Wong (Ceq Wong, Chewong) is an Austroasiatic language spoken in the Malay Peninsula. It belongs to the Northern subbranch of the Aslian languages. Northern Aslian was labelled Jehaic in the past.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21950359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21950359", "title": "Corrective rape", "text": "Corrective rape\n\nCorrective rape, also called curative or homophobic rape, is a hate crime in which one or more people are raped because of their perceived sexual orientation or gender identity. The common intended consequence of the rape, as seen by the perpetrator, is to turn the person heterosexual or to enforce conformity with gender stereotypes.\n\nThe term \"corrective rape\" was coined in South Africa after well-known cases of corrective rapes of lesbians such as Eudy Simelane (who was also murdered in the same attack) and Zoliswa Nkonyana became public. Popularisation of the term has raised awareness and encouraged LGBT+ people in countries across the world to come forward with their own stories of being raped as punishment for and/or in an attempt to change their sexual orientation and/or gender identity. Although some countries have laws protecting LGBT+ people, corrective rape is often overlooked.\n\nCorrective rape is the use of rape against people who do not conform to perceived social norms regarding human sexuality or gender roles. The goal is to punish perceived abnormal behavior and reinforce societal norms. The crime was first identified in South Africa, where it is sometimes supervised by members of the woman's family or local community. One of the earliest known mentions of the term is by South African feminist activist Bernedette Muthien during an August 2001 interview by Human Rights Watch in Cape Town:\n\nLesbians are particularly targeted for gang rape. African lesbians are more likely to be raped as lesbians in the townships. To what extent are coloured lesbians also targeted for rape because of their sexual orientation? There are no statistics for this, I don't know what percent of coloured lesbians are targeted for corrective rape action. Growing up, I never heard that lesbians were targeted in this way and so I want to know when that started happening. Gangsterism has always existed in the townships, so you can't attribute it to that. I don't know why black lesbians are targeted more, either. I'd like to know how many women are being raped by brothers, fathers, etc., in coloured townships. Why is no one studying this? Has it just been under-reported, not studied, or what?\n\nThe United Nations UNAIDS 2015 Terminology Guidelines suggests that the term \"corrective rape\" should no longer be used, as it gives off the perception that something needs to be fixed. The guidelines propose that the term \"homophobic rape\" should be used instead. The words \"so-called 'curative' or 'corrective' rape\" were mentioned in 2011 in the first UN report on discrimination and violence against LGBT+ people. A 2013 global study on HIV/AIDS suggested the term \"lesphobic rape\" to emphasize the fact that lesbians constitute the overwhelmingly majority of victims of this phenomenon. Others have emphasized that gay men, transgender people and asexuals can also be victims of corrective rape.\n\nCorrective rape is a hate crime. However, due to homophobia and heteronormativity, hate crimes based on sexuality (as opposed to race, gender, class, age, etc.) are often not recognized by authorities. A 2000 study suggested an atmosphere supportive of hate crimes against gay men and lesbians, reactions to hate crimes by the broader community, and responses by police and justice systems contribute to corrective rape.\n\nSome people believe corrective rape can \"fix\" people who do not conform to gender norms or who are not heterosexual. ActionAid reports that survivors remember being told that they were being taught a lesson. Some perpetrators of the hate crime are impelled by a sense of misogyny and chauvinism.\n\nSome sources argue that many cases of corrective rape are caused by drawing moral conclusions from the nature–nurture debate. Despite the scientific community believing that sexual orientation is the result of biology and environment, many people do not believe that homosexuality (or other forms of non-heterosexuality) has a genetic basis and instead believe it is only the result of one's environment. Because of this, some of these people believe sexual orientation can be changed or, as they see it, fixed.\n\nIntersectionality is \"intersecting\" social identities and related systems of oppression, domination, or discrimination. In South Africa, black lesbians face homophobia, sexism, racism, and classism. Research in 2008 by Triangle, a gay rights group, revealed that black lesbians were twice as afraid of sexual assault compared to white lesbians. In addition, black women who identify as lesbians are seen as \"un-African\" by their peers. Taking into account race and sexuality together is essential when examining corrective rape, as both subjects cross into each other and influence each other heavily.\n\nIntersectionality plays a major role in corrective rape cases, as many occur in underdeveloped countries such as South Africa and India in which race, class, and gender are factors in the rights an individual will receive. Sexuality and gender especially, define the social and political rank of victims. Many are ostracized, and other abusive measures are taken in order to \"cure\" individuals of their sexuality.\n\nCorrective rape and other accompanying acts of violence can result in physical and psychological trauma, mutilation, unwanted pregnancy, and may contribute to suicide. Corrective rape is a major contributor to HIV infection in South African lesbians. In South Africa approximately 10% of lesbians are HIV positive, with corrective rape being the most likely cause. HIV in South Africa is pandemic, and due to homophobia there is a lack of education about sexually transmitted diseases among lesbians. Homophobic laws and discrimination in South Africa contribute to the poor quality of health care for minorities.\n\nThe psychological effects of corrective rape on victims can be detrimental. Many victims in countries such as South Africa and India where corrective rape is most prevalent suffer from a strong sense of insecurity and disempowerment due to strong homophobia in their communities. This homophobia can lead to both physical and psychological violence. There have been at least 30 lesbians who have been murdered in South Africa in the last 15 years because of their sexual orientation. However, violence against the LGBTQ community in South Africa is seldom reported. Survivors of corrective rape suffer from triple discrimination for being a female, black, and homosexual. This is especially true in South African townships, where corrective rape is common for lesbian women. Corrective rape victims may suffer from depression, anxiety, and/or post-traumatic stress disorder. Due to racial and sexual discrimination in health care, victims must often deal with these issues on their own.\n\nCorrective rape has been reported in countries across the world including Ecuador, Haiti, India, Jamaica, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Peru, South Africa, Thailand, Uganda, Ukraine, the United Kingdom, the United States, and Zimbabwe.\n\nChildren in India have been speaking out about how their parents are sanctioning the child's sexuality by using \"corrective rape therapy\" (same as corrective rape). Corrective rape in India typically happens in order to protect the family name, to avoid shaming from religious communities, and to prevent abnormal perception by the surrounding community. In India, there is a general discomfort with discussing homosexuality, even if an individual identifies as homosexual. This discomfort comes from the overall negative attitude towards homosexuality and the fact is that individuals in India who identify as homosexual are victimized at a higher rate. There is also a high level of negativity towards the trans community in India. Religious commitments tend to be very strong in traditional cultures and this is where much of the tension and poor perception came from. According to statistics from the Crisis Intervention Team of LGBT Collective in Telangana, India, there have been 15 reported instances of corrective rape that have been reported in the last 5 years. In general, there has been a 902 percent increase in reported rapes in India from 1971 to 2012; however, it is estimated that 90% of sex crimes in the country go unreported.\n\nAmnesty International has received reports of violence against lesbians in Jamaica, including rape and other forms of sexual violence. Lesbians reportedly have been attacked on the grounds of mannish physical appearance or other visible signs of sexuality. Some reports of abduction and rape come from inner-city communities, where local non-governmental organizations have expressed concerns about high incidences of violence against women.\n\nIn Kenya, perpetrators and apologists claim that rape is a method \"to straighten\" LGBTI people.\n\nIn South Africa, women have less sexual and economic power than men. One of the factors associated with this inequality is strict gender roles, which has led to one of the highest rates of violence against women in the world. The South African government conducted a survey in 2009 on sexual assault. One in four men admit to having sex with a woman who did not consent and nearly half of these men admitted to raping more than once. It is also estimated that a woman is raped every 26 seconds in South Africa. Corrective rape is used as a punishment for people who are gay or do not fit traditional gender roles (usually women), where often they are verbally abused before the rape. The perpetrator may claim to be teaching the women a lesson on how to be a \"real woman\". Because women have less control over their economics, which creates economic vulnerability, they have less control over their own sexual activities. Poor black women who live in townships are more likely to become victims of corrective violence, and gay women are more likely to be isolated with little support, which increases their chances of being targeted.\n\nThe South African Constitution is one of the most progressive constitutions in the world. It states that no person shall be discriminated against based on his or her gender, race, or sexual orientation. The Equality Act of 2000 specifically bans hate crimes, crimes in which people are targeted because of one or more aspects of their identity. Although this technically includes crimes based on sexual orientation, in practice such cases are not brought to trial. Crimes based on sexual orientation are not expressly recognized in South Africa; corrective rape reports are not separated from general rape reports. In December 2009, there had been 31 recorded murders of lesbians in South Africa since 1998, but only one had resulted in a conviction.\n\nThe reason for this discrepancy between the law and practice is a result of heteronormativity and homophobia in South Africa. Heteronormativity can be defined as \"the institutions, structures of understanding, and practical orientations that make heterosexuality not only seem coherent—that is organised as a sexuality—but also privileged\". Some historians believe the heteronormativity in South Africa can be attributed to the nation's postcolonial years of racism, and it appears that today many South Africans are recommitted to their traditional heritage. Black South African lesbians are not included in this social construction, and this leads back to the concept of intersectionality. Black lesbians in South Africa are not only excluded because of their sexual orientation but also because of their ethnicity. As displayed in the media, most homosexuality is displayed as white, leaving black lesbians in South African even more marginalized. In South Africa, homosexuality is regarded as \"un-African\" by some. In 2004, the Human Science Research Council found that 78% of the respondents thought of homosexuality as unacceptable. According to Human Rights Watch, in the last 20 years, attitudes toward homosexuality have become worse in South Africa.\n\nCorrective rape is on the rise in South Africa. More than 10 lesbians are raped weekly to correct their sexual preferences, as estimated by Luleki Sizwe, a South African nonprofit. It is estimated that at least 500 lesbians become victims of corrective rape every year and that 86% of black lesbians in the Western Cape live in fear of being sexually assaulted, as reported by the Triangle Project in 2008. Yet victims of corrective rape are less likely to report it because of the negative social view of homosexuality. Under-reporting is high for sexually violent crimes, thus the number of corrective rapes are likely higher than what is reported.\n\nAlthough it is thought to be uncommon, men also become victims of corrective rape. A study conducted by OUT LGBT Well-being and the University of South Africa Centre for Applied Psychology (UCAP) showed that \"the percentage of black gay men who said they have experienced corrective rape matched that of the black lesbians who partook in the study\". However, not all men admit to being victims of corrective rape.\n\nOne South African man stated, \"Lesbians get raped and killed because it is accepted by our community and by our culture.\" Kekelesto explained that her experience as \"where men try to turn you into a real African woman\" and that she was being taught how to be a black woman.\nGalip Asvat, a successful hair salon business owner, is a gay man born in Klerksdorp. He moved to Hillbrow, which was a haven for the LGBT community, in the early 2000s. One early morning in 2007, Asvat was ambushed and raped by three men in his apartment building. On his attack, he said, \"They thought I was a woman, and when they found out I was a man, that's when they became even more violent.\" His beating was brutal and the gang of men nearly cut off his genitals.\n\nSizakele Sigasa, a lesbian activist living in Soweto, and her partner Salome Masooa were raped, tortured, and murdered in July 2007. South African lesbian-gay rights organizations, including the umbrella-group Joint Working Group, said the attack was driven by lesbophobia. Two other rape/murders of lesbians occurred in South Africa earlier in Summer 2007: Simangele Nhlapo, member of an HIV-positive support group was raped and murdered in June, along with her two-year-old daughter; and Madoe Mafubedu, age 16, was raped and stabbed to death.\n\nOn 28 April 2008, 31-year-old soccer player Eudy Simelane was abducted, gang-raped and killed in KwaThema, her hometown near Johannesburg. Simelane was a star of the South Africa's acclaimed Banyana Banyana national female football squad, an avid equality rights campaigner, and one of the first women to live openly as a lesbian in KwaThema.\n\nOn 24 April 2011, LGBT activist Noxolo Nogwaza was raped and murdered in KwaThema.\n\nIn 2013, two writers from South African men's magazine \"FHM\" were fired as a result of corrective rape jokes they made on Facebook. After a disciplinary hearing on Friday, July 19, 2013, \"FHM\" dismissed both men from their positions, calling their comments \"entirely unacceptable\".\n\nSouth Africa is a signatory of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), which obligates states to remove discriminatory barriers from the full and free exercise of rights by women. The Convention's duty to modify the conduct of private citizens to ensure equality for women covers attitudes that include the inferiority of women and stereotyped gender roles, which arguably encompass the animus toward gay women that motivates many men to commit corrective rape. 66% of South Africa women said they did not report their attack because they would not be taken seriously. Of these, 25% said they feared exposing their sexual orientation to the police and 22% said they were afraid of being abused by the police.\n\nIn August 2011, the Department of Justice established a National Task Team (NTT) to address the issue of hate crimes against LGBT people. In April 2014, then Minister of Justice Jeff Radebe launched a National Intervention Strategy for the LGBTI Sector developed by the NTT to address sex-based violence and gender-based violence against members of the community. The NTT has established a rapid response team to attend to unsolved criminal cases as a matter of urgency and produced an information pamphlet with frequently asked questions about LGBTI persons. Radebe stated that the Department of Justice acknowledged the need for a specific legal framework for hate crimes and that the matter would be subjected to public debate.\n\nIn March 2011, there was an article published that stated that there are about 10 new cases of corrective rape a week in Cape Town. Cape Town, South Africa specifically has 2.5 million people and since 2011, the prevalence of Corrective Rape has only increased.\n\nFive cases in which the victims were lesbians or transgender males were reported in Uganda between June and November, 2011.\n\nIn the United States, Brandon Teena (1972–1993) is one of the best-known victims of corrective rape (and thereafter murder) for being a trans man. The book \"All She Wanted\" (1996) and the two films \"The Brandon Teena Story\" (1998) and \"Boys Don't Cry\" (1999) were about him.\n\nA U.S. State Department report on Zimbabwe states, \"In response to social pressure, some families reportedly subjected their LGBT members to corrective rape and forced marriages to encourage heterosexual conduct. Such crimes were rarely reported to police. Women, in particular, were subjected to rape by male family members.\" \nFollowing the publication of an earlier report with similar wording, Zimbabwean journalist Angus Shaw said that lesbian women are raped by men to make them enjoy heterosexual acts and gay men are raped by women to remove their sexual orientation tendencies.\n\nChild sponsorship charity ActionAid has published an article discussing corrective rape, and see ending violence against women as a pivotal part of their mission. The group joined with 26 gay and women's rights and community groups, to organize a campaign focused on South Africa but also aimed at the international community, to raise awareness of the issues. The campaign was dedicated to raising awareness about the rape and murder of two lesbian women in a Johannesburg township and called for sexual orientation to be specifically recognised as grounds for protection by police and justice systems.\n\nNdumie Funda, a South African Social Justice Activist, started her work to end Corrective Rape by launching a social campaign on Change.org in hopes to have the South African Government recognize hate crimes committed due to biases against sexual orientation and provide protection for victims. This particular petition ended up gathering almost 200 thousand signatures from individuals making up over 175 different countries-this forced the government to recognize this issue. The government agreed to meeting Funda and in 2014 South Africa passed its first law against hate crimes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20357699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20357699", "title": "Criticisms of neoclassical economics", "text": "Criticisms of neoclassical economics\n\nNeo-classical economics has come under critique on the basis of its core ideologies, assumptions, and other matters.\n\nNeoclassical economics is sometimes criticized for having a normative bias. In this view, it does not focus on explaining actual economies but instead on describing a \"utopia\" in which Pareto optimality applies. In the opinion of some developers of an alternative approach, the purpose of neoclassical economics is \"to demonstrate the social optimality if the real world were to resemble the model\", not \"to explain the real world as observed empirically\".\n\nIn his book \"Economics as Religion: From Samuelson to Chicago and Beyond\", the economist Robert Nelson argued that \"the priesthood of a modern secular religion of economic progress\" has promoted a narrow interpretation of economic efficiency, disguised in the form of mathematics.\n\nThe assumption that individuals act rationally may be viewed as ignoring important aspects of human behavior. Many see the \"economic man\" as being quite different from real people. Many economists, even contemporaries, have criticized this model of economic man. Thorstein Veblen put it most sardonically. Neoclassical economics assumes a person to be:\n\na lightning calculator of pleasures and pains, who oscillates like a homogeneous globule of desire of happiness under the impulse of stimuli that shift about the area, but leave him intact.\nLarge corporations might perhaps come closer to the neoclassical ideal of profit maximization, but this is not necessarily viewed as desirable if this comes at the expense of neglect of wider social issues. The response to this is that neoclassical economics is descriptive and not normative. It addresses such problems with concepts of private versus social utility.\n\nProblems exist with making the neoclassical general equilibrium theory compatible with an economy that develops over time and includes capital goods. This was explored in a major debate in the 1960s—the \"Cambridge capital controversy\"—about the validity of neoclassical economics, with an emphasis on the economic growth, capital, aggregate theory, and the marginal productivity theory of distribution. There were also internal attempts by neoclassical economists to extend the Arrow-Debreu model to disequilibrium investigations of stability and uniqueness. However a result known as the Sonnenschein-Mantel-Debreu theorem suggests that the assumptions that must be made to ensure that the equilibrium is stable and unique are quite restrictive.\n\nNeoclassical economics is also often seen as relying too heavily on complex mathematical models, such as those used in general equilibrium theory, without enough regard to whether these actually describe the real economy. Many see an attempt to model a system as complex as a modern economy by a mathematical model as unrealistic and doomed to failure. Famous answer to this criticism is Milton Friedman's claim that theories should be judged by their ability to predict events rather than by the realism of their assumptions. Mathematical models also include those in game theory, linear programming, and econometrics.\n\nFor a detailed critique of mathematical modeling, as used in the academic and political practice of neoclassical economics, see\nPitfalls of Economic Models.\n\nIn the \"Concluding Remarks\" (p. 524) of his 2001 Nobel Prize lecture,\n\nJoseph Stiglitz examined why the neoclassical paradigm—and models\nbased on it—persists, despite his publication,\nover a decade earlier, of some of his seminal results showing that Information Asymmetries invalidated\ncore Assumptions of that paradigm and its models:\n\nIn the aftermath of the 2007–2009 global economic meltdown, the profession's attachment to unrealistic models is increasingly\nbeing questioned and criticized. After a weeklong workshop, one group of economists released a paper highly critical of their own profession's unethical use of unrealistic models. Their \"Abstract\" offers an indictment of fundamental practices:\n\nThe assumption of rational expectations which has been introduced in some more modern neoclassical models (sometimes also called new classical) can also be criticized on the grounds of realism.\n\nIn general, allegedly overly unrealistic assumptions are one of the most common criticisms towards neoclassical economics. It is fair to say that many (but not all) of these criticisms can only be directed towards a subset of the neoclassical models (for example, there are many neoclassical models where unregulated markets fail to achieve Pareto-optimality and there has recently been an increased interest in modeling non-rational decision making).\n\nEconomists tend to focus on markets or aggregate outcomes instead of observing individual behavior. Neoclassical economists have argued that evolutionary or \"market forces\" tend to select naturally the most \"“fit“\" actors. Hence, neoclassical economic theories are based on assumptions that (competitive) markets provide an environment that involves incentives for economic actors to learn optimal behavior, on average, in the long run. In this line markets are thought to \"“heal“\" the cognitive imperfections of actors through evolutionary forces, compelling most of them to behave \"as if\" they were rational. According to Joseph Stiglitz, “(Economics as taught) in America’s graduate schools ... bears testimony to a triumph of ideology over science.” Recently more and more critics have raised their voices against the way Economics is being taught. On the subject Mark Blaug says: \"Economics has increasingly become an intellectual game played for its own sake and not for its practical consequences for understanding the economic world. Economists have converted the subject into a sort of social mathematics in which analytical rigour is everything and practical relevance is nothing.”\n\nJames K. Galbraith on his article \"A contribution on the state of economics in France and the world\" asks himself: \"Is there anything missing even from the hotly contested domains of modern mainstream economics?\" On his opinion, three large areas have disappeared from the teaching of Economics, \"at very considerable intellectual and social cost\": the history of economics itself, the proper study of macroeconomic and monetary economics—which have been submerged by the neoclassical emphasis on market transactions between firms and households—and the lack of instruction in differing institutional contexts (political, national and international structures, policy histories).\n\nHowever recent studies have shown that empirical evidence on this subject is mixed. There is plenty of empirical evidence that \"anomalous\" behavior can survive for a long time in real markets such as in market \"bubbles\" and market \"herding\" (see AVERY & ZEMSKY, 1998). Evidence from the laboratory shows that some anomalies are overcome by cox in real life market environments, while others are not: “The data suggest the market glass is both half-full of deviations and half-empty because some deviations were drained away by learning“ (CAMERER, 1995, 675).\n\nRecently empirical evidence has indicated that markets produce the types of learning assumed in the traditional neoclassical Economics only under very limited ideal conditions - which are rarely met in real-life - namely perfect competition and free information (see SUNDER, 1995).\n\nIt may take an extended period of time for markets to eventually converge to an equilibrium, if at all. Even under ideal conditions especially if the economic actors' initial beliefs are not coordinated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "489743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489743", "title": "Demagogue", "text": "Demagogue\n\nA demagogue (from Greek , a popular leader, a leader of a mob, from , people, populace, the commons + leading, leader) or rabble-rouser is a leader in a democracy who gains popularity by exploiting prejudice and ignorance among the common people, whipping up the passions of the crowd and shutting down reasoned deliberation. Demagogues overturn established customs of political conduct, or promise or threaten to do so. \n\nDemagoguery is the one fundamental flaw in democracy: because power is held by the people, it is possible for the people to give that power to someone who appeals to the lowest common denominator of a large segment of the population. Demagogues usually advocate immediate, forceful action to address a national crisis while accusing moderate and thoughtful opponents of weakness or disloyalty.\n\nDemagogues have appeared in democracies since ancient Athens. The word \"demagogue,\" originally meaning a leader of the common people, was first coined in ancient Greece with no negative connotation, but eventually came to mean a troublesome kind of leader who occasionally arose in Athenian democracy. Even though democracy gave power to the common people, elections still tended to favor the aristocratic class, which favored deliberation and decorum. Demagogues were a new kind of leader who emerged from the lower classes. Demagogues relentlessly advocated action, usually violent—immediately and without deliberation. Demagogues appealed directly to the emotions of the poor and uninformed, pursuing power, telling lies to stir up hysteria, exploiting crises to intensify popular support for their calls to immediate action and increased authority, and accusing moderate opponents of weakness or disloyalty to the nation. While many politicians in a democracy slightly manipulate narratives to cultivate popular support, demagogues use egregiously false narratives often based on fear.\n\nThroughout its history, people have often used the word \"demagogue\" carelessly, as an \"attack word\" to disparage any leader whom the speaker thinks manipulative, pernicious, or bigoted. While there can be no precise delineation between demagogues and non-demagogues, since democratic leaders exist on a continuum from less to more demagogic, what distinguishes a demagogue can be defined independently of whether the speaker favors or opposes a certain political leader. What distinguishes a demagogue is \"how\" he or she gains or holds democratic power: by exciting the passions of the lower classes and less-educated people in a democracy toward rash or violent action, breaking established democratic institutions such as the rule of law. James Fenimore Cooper in 1838 identified four fundamental characteristics of demagogues:\n\nThe central feature of the practice of demagoguery is persuasion by means of passion, shutting down reasoned deliberation and consideration of alternatives. Demagogues \"pander to passion, prejudice, bigotry, and ignorance, rather than reason.\" See below for a survey of the methods of persuasion used by most demagogues throughout history.\n\nDemagogues have arisen in democracies from Athens to the present day. Though most demagogues have unique, colorful personalities, their psychological tactics have remained the same throughout history (see below). Often considered the first demagogue, Cleon of Athens is remembered mainly for the brutality of his rule and his near destruction of Athenian democracy, resulting from his \"common-man\" appeal to disregard the moderate customs of the aristocratic elite. Modern demagogues include Adolf Hitler, Benito Mussolini, Huey Long, Father Coughlin, and Joseph McCarthy, all of whom built mass followings the same way that Cleon did: by exciting the passions of the mob against the moderate, thoughtful customs of the aristocratic elites of their times. All, ancient and modern, meet Cooper's four criteria above: claiming to represent the common people, inciting intense passions among them, exploiting those reactions to take power, and breaking or at least threatening established rules of political conduct, though each in different ways.\n\nDemagogues exploit a perennial weakness of democracies: the greater numbers, and hence votes, of the lower classes and less-educated people—the people most prone to be whipped up into a fury and led to catastrophic action by an orator skilled at fanning that kind of flame. Democracies are instituted to ensure freedom for all and popular control over government authority. Demagogues turn power deriving from popular support into a force that undermines the very freedoms and rule of law that democracies are made to protect. The Greek historian Polybius thought that democracies are inevitably undone by demagogues. He said that every democracy eventually decays into \"a government of violence and the strong hand,\" leading to \"tumultuous assemblies, massacres, banishments.\"\n\nThe Athenian leader Cleon is known as a notorious demagogue mainly because of three events described in the writings of Thucydides and Aristophanes.\n\nFirst, after the failed revolt by the city of Mytilene, Cleon persuaded the Athenians to slaughter not just the Mytilenean prisoners, but every man in the city, and to sell their wives and children as slaves. The Athenians rescinded the resolution the following day when they came to their senses.\n\nSecond, after Athens had completely defeated the Peloponnesian fleet in the Battle of Sphacteria and Sparta could only beg for peace on almost any terms, Cleon persuaded the Athenians to reject the peace offer.\n\nThird, he taunted the Athenian generals over their failure to bring the war in Sphacteria to a rapid close, accusing them of cowardice, and declared that he could finish the job himself in twenty days, despite having no military knowledge. They gave him the job, expecting him to fail. Cleon shrank at being called to make good on his boast, and tried to get out of it, but he was forced to take the command. In fact, he succeeded—by getting the general Demosthenes to do it, now treating him with respect after previously slandering him behind his back. Three years later, Cleon and his Spartan counterpart Brasidas were killed at the Battle of Amphipolis, enabling a restoration of peace that lasted until the outbreak of the Second Peloponnesian War.\n\nModern commentators suspect that Thucydides and Aristophanes exaggerated the vileness of Cleon's real character. Both had personal conflicts with Cleon, and \"The Knights\" is a satirical, allegorical comedy that doesn't even mention Cleon by name. Cleon was a tradesman—a leather-tanner. Thucydides and Aristophanes came from the upper classes, predisposed to look down on the commercial classes. Nevertheless, their portrayals define the archetypal example of the \"demagogue\" or \"rabble-rouser.\"\n\nAlcibiades convinced the people of Athens to attempt to conquer Sicily during the Peloponnesian War, with disastrous results. He led the Athenian assembly to support making him commander by claiming victory would come easily, appealing to Athenian vanity, and appealing to action and courage over deliberation. Alcibiades's expedition could have succeeded if he was not denied command due to the political maneuvers of his rivals.\n\nGaius Flaminius was a Roman consul most known for being defeated by Hannibal at the Battle of Lake Trasimene during the second Punic war. Hannibal was able to make pivotal decisions during this battle because he understood his opponent. Flaminius was described as a demagogue by Polybius, in his book the Rise of the Roman Empire. \"...Flaminius possessed a rare talent for the arts of demagogy...\" Because Flaminius was thus ill-suited, he lost 15,000 Roman lives, his own included, in the battle.\n\nThe most famous demagogue of modern times, Adolf Hitler first attempted to overthrow the Bavarian government not with popular support but by force in a failed putsch in 1923. While in prison, Hitler chose a new strategy: to overthrow the government democratically, by cultivating a mass movement. Even before the putsch, Hitler had rewritten the Nazi party's platform to consciously target the lower classes of Germany, appealing to their resentment of wealthier classes and calling for German unity and increased central power. Hitler was delighted by the instant increase in popularity.\n\nWhile Hitler was in prison, the Nazi party vote had fallen to one million, and it continued to fall after Hitler was released in 1924 and began rejuvenating the party. For the next several years, Hitler and the Nazi party were generally regarded as a laughingstock in Germany, no longer taken seriously as a threat to the country. Despite Hitler's oratorical gift for stirring up the passions of a crowd (see below), he was unable to stop the decline of the Nazi party. The prime minister of Bavaria lifted the region's ban on the party, saying, \"The wild beast is checked. We can afford to loosen the chain.\"\n\nIn 1929, with the start of the Great Depression, Hitler's populism started to become effective. Hitler updated the Nazi party's platform to exploit the economic distress of ordinary Germans: repudiating the Versailles Treaty, promising to eliminate corruption, and pledging to provide every German with a job. In 1930, the Nazi party went from 200,000 votes to 6.4 million, making it the second-largest party in Parliament. By 1932, the Nazi party had become the largest in Parliament. In early 1933, Hitler was appointed Chancellor. He then exploited the Reichstag fire to arrest his political opponents and consolidate his control of the army. Within a few years, exploiting democratic support of the masses, Hitler took Germany from a democracy to a total dictatorship.\n\nJoseph McCarthy was a U.S. Senator from the state of Wisconsin from 1947 to 1957. Though a poor orator, McCarthy rose to national prominence during the early 1950s by proclaiming that high places in the United States federal government and military were \"infested\" with communists, contributing to the second \"Red Scare\". Ultimately his inability to provide proof for his claims, as well as his public attacks on the United States Army, led to the Army–McCarthy hearings in 1954, which in turn led to his censure by the Senate and fall from popularity.\n\nBelow are described a number of methods by which demagogues have manipulated and incited crowds throughout history. Not all demagogues uses all of these methods, and no two demagogues use exactly the same methods to gain popularity and loyalty. Even ordinary politicians use some of these techniques from time to time; a politician who failed to stir emotions at all would have little hope of being elected. What these techniques have in common, and what distinguishes demagogues' use of them, is their consistent use to shut down reasoned deliberation by stirring up overwhelming passion.\n\nSometimes, a statesman, the kind of politician genuinely concerned with good policy, may need to resort to demagogic tactics in order to thwart a real demagogue—to \"fight fire with fire\". A real demagogue uses these tactics without restraint; a statesman, only to avert greater harm to the nation. In contrast to a demagogue, a statesman's ordinary rhetoric seeks \"to calm rather than excite, to conciliate rather than divide, and to instruct rather than flatter.\"\n\nThe most fundamental demagogic technique is scapegoating: blaming the in-group's troubles on an out-group, usually of a different ethnicity, religion, or social class. For example, McCarthy claimed that all of the problems of the U.S. resulted from \"communist subversion.\" Denis Kearney blamed all the problems of laborers in California on Chinese immigrants. Hitler blamed Jews for Germany's defeat in World War I as well as the economic troubles that came afterward. This was central to his appeal: many people said that the only reason they liked Hitler was because he was against the Jews. Fixing blame on the Jews gave Hitler a way to intensify nationalism and unity.\n\nThe claims made about the scapegoated class are mostly the same regardless of the demagogue and regardless of the scapegoated class or the nature of the crisis that the demagogue is exploiting, such as: \"We\" are the \"true\" Americans/Germans/Christians/etc., and \"they\", the Jews/bankers/communists/capitalists/unions/foreigners/elites/etc., have supposedly cheated \"us\" plain folk and are living in decadent luxury off riches that rightfully belong to \"us\". \"They\" are plotting to take over, are now rapidly taking power, or are already secretly running the country. \"They\" are subhuman, sexual perverts who will seduce or rape \"our\" daughters, and if \"we\" don't expel or exterminate \"them\" right away, doom is just around the corner.\n\nMany demagogues have risen to power by evoking fear in their audiences, to stir them to action and prevent deliberation. Fear of rape, for example, is easily evoked. \"Pitchfork Ben\" Tillman's rhetoric was most vivid when he was describing imaginary scenes in which white women were raped by black men lurking by the side of the road. He depicted black men as having an innate \"character weakness\" consisting of a fondness for raping white women. Tillman was elected governor of South Carolina in 1890, and elected senator repeatedly from 1895–1918.\n\nWhile any politician needs to point out dangers to the people and criticize opponents' policies, demagogues choose their words for their effect on their audience's emotions, usually without regard for factual truth or the real severity of the danger. Some demagogues are opportunistic, monitoring the people and saying whatever currently will generate the most \"heat\". Other demagogues may themselves be so ignorant or prejudiced that they sincerely believe the falsehoods they tell.\n\nWhen one lie doesn't work, the demagogue quickly moves on to more lies. Joe McCarthy first claimed to have \"here in my hand\" a list of 205 members of the Communist Party working in the State Department. Soon this became 57 \"card-carrying Communists\". When pressed to provide their names, McCarthy then said that while the records are not available to him, he knew \"absolutely\" that \"approximately\" 300 Communists were certified to the Secretary of State for discharge but only \"approximately\" 80 were actually discharged. When called on that bluff, he said that he had a list of 81, which he would use in the following weeks. McCarthy never turned up even one Communist in the State Department.\n\nMany demagogues have demonstrated remarkable skill at moving audiences to great emotional depths and heights during a speech. Sometimes this is due to exceptional verbal eloquence, sometimes personal charisma, and sometimes both. Hitler demonstrated both. His eyes had a hypnotic effect on many people, seeming to immobilize and overwhelm whoever he glared at. Hitler usually began his speeches by speaking slowly, in a low, resonant voice, telling of his life in poverty after serving in World War I, suffering in the chaos and humiliation of postwar Germany, resolving to reawaken the Fatherland. Gradually he would escalate the tone and tempo of his speech, ending in a climax in which he shrieked his hatred of Bolsheviks, Jews, Czechs, Poles, or whatever group he currently perceived as standing in his way—mocking them, ridiculing them, insulting them, threatening them with destruction. Normally reasonable people became caught up in the peculiar rapport that Hitler established with his audience, believing even the most obvious lies and nonsense while under his spell. Hitler was not born with these vocal and oratorical skills; he acquired them through long and deliberate practice.\n\nA more ordinary silver-tongued demagogue was the Negro-baiter James Kimble Vardaman (Governor of Mississippi 1904–1908, Senator 1913–1919), admired even by his opponents for his oratorical gifts and colorful language. An example, responding to Theodore Roosevelt's having invited black people to a reception at the White House: \"Let Teddy take coons to the White House. I should not care if the walls of the ancient edifice should become so saturated with the effluvia from the rancid carcasses that a Chinch bug would have to crawl upon the dome to avoid asphyxiation.\" Vardaman's speeches tended to have little content; he spoke in a ceremonial style even in deliberative settings. His speeches served mostly as a vehicle for his personal magnetism, charming voice, and graceful delivery.\n\nThe demagogues' charisma and emotional oratory many times enabled them to win elections despite opposition from the press. The news media informs voters, and often the information is damaging to demagogues. Demagogic oratory distracts, entertains, and enthralls, steering followers' attention away from the demagogue's usual history of lies, abuses of power, and broken promises. The advent of radio enabled many 20th-century demagogues' skill with the spoken word to drown out the written word of newspapers.\n\nCleon, like many demagogues who came after him, constantly advocated brutality in order to demonstrate strength, and argued that compassion was a sign of weakness that would only be exploited by enemies. \"It is a general rule of human nature that people despise those who treat them well and look up to those who make no concessions.\" At the Mytilenian Debate over whether to recall the ships he had sent the previous day to slaughter and enslave the entire population of Mytilene, he opposed the very idea of debate, characterizing it as an idle, weak, intellectual pleasure: \"To feel pity, to be carried away by the pleasure of hearing a clever argument, to listen to the claims of decency are three things that are entirely against the interests of an imperial power.\"\n\nDistracting from his lack of evidence for his claims, Joe McCarthy persistently insinuated that anyone who opposed him was a communist sympathizer. G.M. Gilbert summarized this rhetoric as \"I'm agin' Communism; you're agin' me; therefore you must be a communist.\"\n\nAnother fundamental demagogic technique is making promises only for their emotional effect on audiences, without regard for how they might be accomplished or without intending to honor them once in office. Demagogues express these empty promises simply and theatrically, but remain extremely hazy about how they will achieve them because usually they are impossible. For example, Huey Long promised that if he were elected president, every family would have a home, an automobile, a radio, and $2,000 yearly. He was vague about how he would make that happen, but people still joined his Share-the-Wealth clubs. Another kind of empty demagogic promise is to make everyone wealthy or \"solve all the problems\". The Polish demagogue Stanisław Tymiński, running as an unknown \"maverick\" on the basis of his prior success as a businessman in Canada, promised \"immediate prosperity\"—exploiting the economic difficulties of laborers, especially miners and steelworkers. Tymiński forced a runoff in the 1990 presidential election, nearly defeating Lech Wałęsa.\n\nDemagogues have often encouraged their supporters to violently intimidate opponents, both to solidify loyalty among their supporters and to discourage or physically prevent people from speaking out or voting against them. \"Pitchfork Ben\" Tillman was repeatedly re-elected to the U.S. Senate largely through violence and intimidation. He spoke in support of lynch mobs, and he disenfranchised most black voters with the South Carolina constitution of 1895. Hitler wrote in \"Mein Kampf\" that physical intimidation was an effective way to move the masses. Hitler intentionally provoked hecklers at his rallies so that his supporters would become enraged by their remarks and assault them.\n\nMany demagogues have found that ridiculing or insulting opponents is a simple way to shut down reasoned deliberation of competing ideas, especially with an unsophisticated audience. \"Pitchfork Ben\" Tillman, for example, was a master of the personal insult. He got his nickname from a speech in which he called President Grover Cleveland \"an old bag of beef\" and resolved to bring a pitchfork to Washington to \"poke him in his old fat ribs.\" James Kimble Vardaman consistently referred to President Theodore Roosevelt as a \"coon-flavored miscegenationist\" and once posted an ad in a newspaper for \"sixteen big, fat, mellow, rancid coons\" to sleep with Roosevelt during a trip to Mississippi.\n\nA common demagogic technique is to pin an insulting epithet on an opponent, by saying it repeatedly, in speech after speech, when saying the opponent's name or in place of it. For example, James Curley referred to Henry Cabot Lodge Jr., his Republican opponent for Senator, as \"Little Boy Blue\". William Hale Thompson called Anton Cermak, his opponent for mayor of Chicago, \"Tony Baloney\". Huey Long called Joseph E. Ransdell, his elderly opponent for Senator, \"Old Feather Duster\". Joe McCarthy liked to call Secretary of State Dean Acheson \"The Red Dean of Fashion\". The use of epithets and other humorous invective diverts followers' attention from soberly considering how to address the important public issues of the time, scoring easy laughs instead.\n\nLegislative bodies usually have sober standards of decorum that are intended to quiet passions and favor reasoned deliberation. Many demagogues violate standards of decorum outrageously, to show clearly that they are thumbing their noses at the established order and the genteel ways of the upper class, or simply because they enjoy the attention that it brings. The common people might find the demagogue disgusting, but the demagogue can use the upper class’s contempt for him to show that he won’t be shamed or intimidated by the powerful.\n\nFor example, Huey Long famously wore pajamas to highly dignified occasions where others were dressed at the height of formality. He once stood \"bukk nekkid\" at his hotel suite when laying down the law to a meeting of political fuglemen. Long was \"intensely and solely interested in himself. He had to dominate every scene he was in and every person around him. He craved attention and would go to almost any length to get it. He knew that an audacious action, although it was harsh and even barbarous, could shock people into a state where they could be manipulated.\" \"He displayed no … restraint, proving so shameless in his pursuit of publicity, and so adept at getting press coverage, that he was soon attracting more attention from the press and the galleries than most of the rest of his colleagues combined.\"\n\nAristotle even pointed out the bad manners of Cleon more than 2,000 years ago: \"[Cleon] was the first who shouted on the public platform, who used abusive language and who spoke with his cloak girt about him, while all the others used to speak in proper dress and manner.\"\n\nMost demagogues have made a show of appearing to be down-to-Earth, ordinary citizens just like the people whose votes they sought. In the United States, many took folksy nicknames: William H. Murray (1869–1956) was \"Alfalfa Bill\"; James M. Curley (1874–1958) of Boston was \"Our Jim\"; Ellison D. Smith (1864–1944) was \"Cotton Ed\"; the husband-and-wife demagogue team of Miriam and James E. Ferguson went by \"Ma and Pa\"; Texas governor W. Lee O'Daniel (1890–1969) was \"Pappy-Pass-the-Biscuits\".\n\nGeorgia governor Eugene Talmadge (1884–1946) put a barn and a henhouse on the Executive Mansion grounds, loudly explaining that he couldn't sleep nights unless he heard the bellowing of livestock and the cackling of poultry. When in the presence of farmers, he chewed tobacco and faked a rural accent—though he himself was college-educated—railing against \"frills\" and \"nigger-lovin' furriners\". He defined \"furriner\" as \"Anyone who attempts to impose ideas that are contrary to the established traditions of Georgia.\" His grammar and vocabulary became more refined when speaking before a city audience. Talmadge was famous for wearing gaudy red galluses, which he snapped for emphasis during his speeches. On his desk, he kept three books, which he loudly proclaimed to visitors were all that a governor needed: a bible, the state financial report, and a Sears–Roebuck catalog.\n\nHuey Long displayed his common-people roots by such methods as calling himself \"The Kingfish\" and gulping down pot likker when visiting northern Louisiana; he once issued a press release demanding that his name be removed from the Washington \"Social Register\". \"Alfalfa Bill\" made sure to remind people of his rural background by talking in the terminology of farming: \"I will plow straight furrows and blast all the stumps. The common people and I can lick the whole lousy gang.\"\n\nScapegoating is one form of gross oversimplification: treating a complex problem, which requires patient reasoning and analysis, as if it results from \"one\" simple cause or can be solved by \"one\" simple cure. For example, Huey Long claimed that all of the U.S.'s economic problems could be solved just by \"sharing the wealth\". Hitler claimed that Germany had lost World War I only because of a \"Stab in the Back\".\n\nSince information from the press can undermine a demagogue's spell over his or her followers, modern demagogues have often attacked it intemperately, calling for violence against newspapers who opposed them, claiming that the press was secretly in the service of moneyed interests or foreign powers, or claiming that leading newspapers were simply personally out to get them. Huey Long accused the New Orleans \"Times–Picayune\" and \"Item\" of being \"bought\", and had his bodyguards rough up their reporters. Oklahoma governor \"Alfalfa Bill\" Murray (1869–1956) once called for a bomb to be dropped on the offices of the \"Daily Oklahoman\". Joe McCarthy accused \"The Christian Science Monitor\", the \"New York Post\", \"The New York Times\", the \"New York Herald Tribune\", \"The Washington Post\", the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\", and countless other leading American newspapers of being \"Communist smear sheets\" under the control of the Kremlin.\n"}
{"id": "1507840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1507840", "title": "Demurrage", "text": "Demurrage\n\nThe term \"demurrage\" from Old French \"demeurage\", from \"demeurer\" - to linger, tarry - originated in vessel chartering and referred to the period when the charterer remained in possession of the vessel after the period normally allowed to load and unload cargo (laytime). By extension, demurrage refers to the charges that the charterer pays to the ship owner for its delayed operations of loading/unloading. Officially, demurrage is a form of liquidated damages for breaching the laytime as it is stated in the governing contract (the charter party). The demurrage sometimes causes a loss to the seller as it increases cost of the total freight.\n\nThe reverse of demurrage is despatch. If the charterer requires the use of the vessel for less time than the laytime allowed, the charter party may require the shipowner to pay despatch for the time saved.\n\nIn commercial ship chartering, demurrage is an ancillary cost that represents liquidated damages for delays. It occurs when the vessel is prevented from loading or discharging cargo within the stipulated laytime (see affreightment: under Charter-parties). In the oil industry, it refers to the excess time taken to discharge or load, as the case may be, in excess of the allowed laytime. Laytime is the term used to quantify the time allowed within which an operation is allowed to be made. Demurrage is laytime consumed less laytime allocated (if any). The master of the ship must give a \"Notice of Readiness\" (NOR) to the charterer when the ship has arrived at the port of loading or discharge. The NOR informs the charterer that the ship is ready to load or discharge. The date and time of the NOR determines when laytime is to commence.\n\nAt the end of the stay in port, the port agent draws up a \"Statement of Facts\", setting out a log of events during the ship's stay in port. The Statement of Facts enables a time sheet to be drawn up and signed by the master and the shipper or receiver of the cargo. The time sheet enables laytime and therefore demurrage or despatch to be calculated.\n\nBecause the supply of a shipping container to a merchant has a similar nature to the contract of a supply of a vessel to a voyage charter, the industry refers to this container usage beyond the time allowed as Container Demurrage. This extra usage usually entitles the container supplier (usually the shipping carrier) to require a payment from the merchant.\n\nIn principle, it can be considered that the similarity between vessel demurrage and container demurrage is correct since both refer to the same concept, which is the late return of equipment supplied by one party to another for the purpose of carrying a cargo. However, the actual regime of container demurrage is still to be determined precisely.\n\nIn container haulage, customers are given a set period in their contract to tip (unload) their container delivery. Acceptable times for tipping are usually between 3 and 4 hours; time spent on site after that is considered \"demurrage\". Haulers will usually charge an hourly rate for each hour after the allowed time.\n\nDemurrage can also refer to the cost levied by shipping lines to cover redecoration of the container after use by the merchant, but it could also be the charges by the shipping line to customers for not returning the container in a reasonable time.\n\nIn railway law, it is the charge on detention of trucks (or rolling stock), either to the shipper for holding the car (laden or not), or to the connecting railroad(s) while the car is empty and returning to the home road (in either case, as a way to encourage speedy unloading and return of empties to improve utilisation of rolling stock).\n\nIn business, demurrage is a delay in delivery of a product via delivery truck. When a delay occurs with product delivery, the delivery party can elect to claim a no fault delay by submitting a demurrage charge. Criteria for allowable demurrage, payment conditions, and payment terms for demurrage are typically prenegotiated and accepted by the vendor via contract prior to conduct of business. Some vendors allow free no-cost time for limited hour(s) when demurrage occurs, others do not allow free time for delays. The demurrage charge is normally an hourly rate. Unforeseeable until delivery, costs of delays are sometimes separately invoiced from the cost of deliverable.\n\nIn banking, demurrage is the charge per ounce made by the Bank of England in exchanging coin or notes for bullion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1538554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1538554", "title": "Dispositio", "text": "Dispositio\n\nDispositio is the system used for the organization of arguments in Western classical rhetoric. The word is Latin, and can be translated as \"organization\" or \"arrangement\".\n\nIt is the second of five canons of classical rhetoric (the first being inventio, and the remaining being elocutio, memoria, and pronuntiatio) that concern the crafting and delivery of speeches and writing.\n\nThe first part of any rhetorical exercise was to discover the proper arguments to use, which was done under the formalized methods of \"inventio\". The next problem facing the orator or writer was to select various arguments and organize them into an effective discourse.\n\nAristotle defined two essential parts of a discourse: the statement of the case and the proof of the case. For example, in a legal argument, a prosecutor must first declare the charges against the defendant and provide the relevant facts; then he must present the evidence that proves guilt. Aristotle allowed that in practice most discourse also requires an introduction and a conclusion.\n\nLater writers on rhetoric, such as Cicero and Quintilian refined this organizational scheme even further, so that there were eventually six parts:\n\nWhile this structure might appear to be highly rigid (and certainly some writers on the subject were overly pedantic), it was in practice a flexible model. Cicero and Quintilian, for example, encouraged writers to rearrange the structure when it strengthened their case: for instance, if the opposing arguments were known to be powerful, it might be better to place the refutation before the proof.\n\nWithin each major part, there were additional tactics that might be employed. For instance, a prosecutor might sum up his case with forceful repetition of his main points using a technique known as \"accumulatio\". The defense attorney in the same case might use a different approach in his summation.\n\nFinally, \"dispositio\" was also seen as an iterative process, particularly in conjunction with \"inventio\". The very process of organizing arguments might lead to the need to discover and research new ones. An orator would refine his arguments and their organization until they were properly arranged. He would then proceed to those areas that we generally associate with rhetoric today—the development of the style and delivery of the arguments.\n\nThe \"exordium\" (; meaning \"beginning\" in Latin; from \"exordiri\", meaning \"to begin\") was the introductory portion of an oration. The term is Latin and the Greek equivalent was called the \"proem\" or \"prooimion\". \n\nIn the \"exordium\", the orator lays out the purpose of the discourse. In doing this, they need to consider several things:\n\n\nIn short, the \"exordium\" was the portion of the discourse in which the orator would prepare the audience to hear his arguments in a favorable frame of mind. \"An exordium can serve different kinds of functions in the differing species of rhetoric, but in all of them some of the major themes of the coming discourse will be announced in advance\".\n\nThe \"peroratio\" (\"peroration\"), as the final part of a speech, had two main purposes in classical rhetoric: to remind the audience of the main points of the speech (\"recapitulatio\") and to influence their emotions (\"affectus\"). The role of the peroration was defined by Greek writers on rhetoric, who called it \"epilogos\"; but it is most often associated with Roman orators, who made frequent use of emotional appeals. A famous example was the speech of Marcus Antonius in defence of Aquillius, during which Antonius tore open the tunic of Aquillius to reveal his battle scars.\n\nIn the first century B.C. it was common for two or more speakers to appear on each side in major court cases. In such cases it was considered a mark of honour to be asked to deliver the peroration.\n\n"}
{"id": "38555772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38555772", "title": "Dorcas Honorable", "text": "Dorcas Honorable\n\nDorcas Honorable (c. 17701855) was Nantucket Island's last indigenous inhabitant. She was of Wampanoag origin, and was raised speaking the Massachusett language, a language that is now extinct.\n\nBorn circa 1770, Dorcas Esop was the daughter of Sarah Tashama Esop, daughter of Benjamin Tashama. Dorcas's grandfather Benjamin was a teacher and a preacher and opened a school for Wampanoag children. Dorcas's mother Sarah was the daughter of a Wampanoag chief who had helped European settlers survive the cold winter on the island. Dorcas Honorable was born during the American Revolution, just ten years after an illness brought by Europeans killed 222 of 358 Wampanoags on Nantucket.\n\nUnlike her acquaintance Abram Quary, who was generally recognized as the second-to-last Wampanoag on Nantucket and the last male native to the island, Dorcas Honorable was known to have remained out of public knowledge during her lifetime, particularly after the death of her mother. Dorcas worked as a domestic and worshiped as a Baptist Christian.\n\nDorcas Esop was married several times. In 1792, Dorcas Esop was married to Isaac Freeman, but by 1800 Dorcas had likely gone back to live with her mother Sarah because a census from 1800 shows that Sarah ran a household of two people. Dorcas would remarry in 1801 to Bill Williams, in 1808 to Henry Mooers, in 1817 to John Sip, and in 1820 with Thomas Honorable. It remains obscure whether Dorcas's husbands were indigenous or non-indigenous. It is also unclear why Dorcas was married so many times in a period of thirty years.\n\nSome historical records indicate that Dorcas's fourth husband John Sip was the victim of a violent assault in New Guinea, but his marriage to Dorcas is the last record of him in Nantucket's recorded history.\n\nDorcas had her only known child with Thomas Honorable. Their child was a daughter named Emmeline. By 1830, it would appear that Dorcas and Thomas Honorable were living in Guinea, but they returned to Nantucket 1850, around the time that Dorcas was widowed. Dorcas lived the rest of her life in the household of Thaddeus Coffin on Nantucket.\n\nAfter Abram Quary's death in the late months of 1854, it was generally believed that the Native American race on Nantucket had gone extinct within 100 years of European arrival. But Dorcas died in the early months of 1855, and it was then that Europeans acknowledged her as the last indigenous Nantucketer. A Baptist congregational ceremony was held for Dorcas's death at her church.\n\n\"Dorcas Honorable: The Life and Heritage of an Oft-Married Woman\", \"Historic Nantucket\", Vol 51, no. 2 (Spring 2002), p. 15-18.\n\n\"Nantucket's 'Last Wampanoags'\", NPR.org, November 21, 2012.\n"}
{"id": "18118236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18118236", "title": "Engan languages", "text": "Engan languages\n\nThe Engan languages are a small family of Papuan languages of the highlands of Papua New Guinea. The two branches of the family are rather distantly related, but were connected by Franklin and Voorhoeve (1973).\n\nThe name \"Engan\" is sometimes restricted to the northern branch of the family, to those languages transparently related to Enga, sometimes to the family as a whole. \n\nThe languages fall into three quite distinct branches: Engan proper, Huli, and Southern Highlands:\n\nThe Engan family constitutes a branch of the Trans–New Guinea languages in the classification of Malcolm Ross, but the evidence for this is weak. \n\nThere are a considerable number of resemblances with Wiru. Borrowing has not been ruled out as the reason for this, though the pronouns are similar as well.\n\nPronouns are easy to reconstruct for the northern and southern branches, but much more difficult for Engan as a whole. Ross (2005) has the following for the singular, Wiru has been added for comparison:\n\n"}
{"id": "16093110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16093110", "title": "Galambu language", "text": "Galambu language\n\nGalambu (also known as Galambi, Galambe, Galembi) is an Afro-Asiatic language spoken in Nigeria. Most members of the ethnic group do not speak Galambu.\n"}
{"id": "3269871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3269871", "title": "Great Lakes Algonquian syllabics", "text": "Great Lakes Algonquian syllabics\n\nGreat Lakes Algonquian syllabics (or Great Lakes Aboriginal syllabics, also referred to as \"Western Great Lakes Syllabary\" by Campbell) is a writing system for several Algonquian languages that emerged during the nineteenth century and whose existence was first noted in 1880. It was originally used near the Great Lakes: Fox (also known as \"Meskwaki\" or \"Mesquakie\"), Sac (the latter also spelled \"Sauk\"), and Kickapoo (these three constituting closely related but politically distinct dialects of a single language for which there is no common term), in addition to Potawatomi. Use of the script was subsequently extended to the Siouan language Ho-Chunk (also known as \"Winnebago\"). Use of the Great Lakes script has also been attributed to speakers of the Ottawa dialect of the Ojibwe language, but supporting evidence is weak.\n\nConsonant and vowel letters that comprise a syllable are grouped into units that are separated by spaces. The system is of interest to students of writing systems because it is a case of an alphabetic system acquiring aspects of a syllabary.\n\nThe Great Lakes script is unrelated to Cree syllabics, which was invented by James Evans to write Cree and extended to a number of other Canadian indigenous languages.\n\nThe script is based upon \"a European cursive form of the Roman alphabet\". Vowel letters correspond with French writing conventions, suggesting a French source. The order of the consonants in tables of the Great Lakes Syllabics is evidence that the script was developed by people who knew the Canadian syllabics syllabary previously in use in Canada, suggesting an origin in Canada.\n\nThe early development of the system is not known. In 1880, when first reported, use of the script was widespread among speakers of Fox and Sac. Some remarks by Potawatomi speakers suggest that the first Potawatomi usage was in approximately the same period.\n\nPotawatomi does not have a consonant /h/, and instead has a glottal stop in places where Fox would have /h/. In Potawatomi, the glottal stop is the only consonant not represented in the script, and similarly in Fox /h/ is the only consonant that is not represented. Because glottal stops have frequently been overlooked when transcribing Native American languages with the Latin script, whereas /h/ seldom is, this anomaly suggests that the script was originally developed for Potawatomi, and subsequently transmitted to speakers of Fox, Sac, and Kickapoo.\n\nIn syllabics, syllables are separated by spaces, and words optionally by a point (period) as the word divider. Old transcriptions of Algonquian languages by Westerners frequently separated the syllables of the languages with hyphens, and the period would be used every few words at the end of a sentence, so these practices may be historically related.\n\nGreat Lakes syllabics is an alphabet, with separate letters for consonants and vowels. However, it is written in syllabic blocks, like the Korean alphabet. Moreover, the vowel /a/ is not written unless it forms a syllable by itself. That is, the letter transcribes both the consonant /k/ and the syllable /ka/. In most Great Lakes syllabics alphabets, the letter for the vowel /i/ has been reduced to its dot, which has become a diacritic on the consonant of the syllable. Both phenomena (ignoring an inherent vowel and writing other vowels as diacritics) are characteristics of a subclass of alphabet, such as Devanagari, known variously as \"abugidas\" or \"alphasyllabaries\". The aspirated consonants are distinguished from the tenuis as digraphs with the letter , but the distinction is frequently ignored, making syllabics a defective script for consonants as well as vowels.\n\nThere are several alphabets based on the script. Samples of the Fox alphabet are in Jones (1906), and Walker (1981, 1996); the latter includes handwriting samples for each letter or compound letter from four different early 20th century Fox writers. Samples of the Potawatomi alphabet are in Walker (1981, 1986). Goddard (1996) includes a postcard written in the Fox script, and Kinkade and Mattina (1996) includes a page of text in the Fox alphabet.\n\nThe syllabary symbols used by the Fox, Sauk, and Kickapoo groups have only minor differences. This section outlines the main characteristics of the Fox alphabet, which is the most completely described in published sources. A brief discussion of the Sauk alphabet has also been published. \nFox speakers refer to the script in both Fox and English as the \"pa·pe·pi·po·\", referring to the first row of consonant-plus-vowel syllables in traditional presentations of the script.\n\nThe core component of the Fox presentation is 48 syllables arranged in twelve rows and four columns. One row is the four vowel letters by themselves. The others each consist of one of the eleven consonant letters by itself (with the inherent vowel /a/ understood) and followed by each of the three combining vowel letters. The script accommodates all the consonant sounds of the Fox language with the exception of /h/, which has no letter. No distinction is made between long and short vowels. A sequence of two identical vowel letters is read as two syllables, typically with an /h/ assumed between the two vowels.\n\nSyllables are separated by spaces. Punctuation consists of a word divider, \"which variously appears as a dot, a small line, or an or ... Many writers do not use the word divider, being particularly apt to omit it at line ends, and some never use it.\" Jones (1906) indicated that the dot or small line were used as word dividers and the cross as a sentence divider, but subsequent study of Fox text manuscripts does not support this claim.\n\nSeveral variants of the script existed among Fox speakers, in which various symbols were substituted for combinations of consonant and vowel letters. These variants were apparently originally used as secret codes and were not widely utilized. Samples of the variant forms are in Walker (1981), taken from Jones (1906).\n\nThere are also minor variations in the form of the script used by Kickapoo speakers, and Kickapoo speakers living in Mexico have added orthographic modifications based on Spanish.\n\nThe Fox alphabet was adapted by speakers of Ho-Chunk (also known as \"Winnebago\") subsequent to an encounter in Nebraska in 1883/1884 with Fox speakers, who told them of other Fox speakers who were using a new writing system in order to write their own language. On a subsequent visit to Fox territory in Iowa in 1884, a Winnebago speaker learned to write in the script. Period reports indicate rapid adoption of the script by Winnebago speakers in Nebraska and Wisconsin. Winnebago phonology is significantly different from that of Fox-Sauk-Kickapoo and Potawatomi, with both more consonants and vowels, and the script was adapted in order to accommodate some of these differences.\n\nAnthropologist Paul Radin worked with Ho-Chunk speaker Sam Blowsnake to produce \"Crashing Thunder: The Autobiography of an American Indian.\" This autobiography was based upon handwritten material composed by Blowsnake in the script. Use of syllabics declined over time; when Radin visited Winnebago communities in 1912, he reported that it was known only to a small number of people.\n\nSome comments by Ottawa speaker Andrew J. Blackbird \"…in which he recalls his father Mackadepenessy ‘making his own alphabet which he called ‘Paw-pa-pe-po’\" and teaching it to other Ottawas from the L'Arbre Croche village on the Lower Peninsula of Michigan have been interpreted as suggesting use of a syllabic writing system by Ottawas earlier in the nineteenth century, although Blackbird was not himself a user of the script. Blackbird’s Ottawa writings use a mixture of French and English-based characteristics, but not those of Great Lakes script. There are no known Odawa texts written in the script.\n\nIt has been suggested that Blackbird’s father may have been referring to a separate orthography developed by French Roman Catholic missionaries and spread by missionary August Dejean, who arrived at L'Arbre Croche, Michigan in 1827, and wrote a primer and catechism in an orthography similar to that used by other French missionaries.\n\nIn his 1932 \"Ethnobotany of the Ojibwe Indians,\" Huron H. Smith records, \"The Ojibwe have written their language for a longer time than any other Algonquin tribe and, while they employ a script in corresponding with absent members of the tribe, it has little value to the ethnologist...\" Smith then clarifies what he means by 'script' and provides a script table in the footnotes.\n\nIn the early twentieth century, Bureau of American Ethnology linguist Truman Michelson engaged several Fox speakers to write stories using the Fox script. Some of these texts are lengthy, running to several hundred printed pages each. A large collection of these unpublished texts is now archived in the Smithsonian Institution National Anthropological Archives. A photograph of Michelson and prolific Fox writer Albert Kiyana appears in Kinkade and Mattina (1996). Kiyana wrote stories for Michelson between 1911 and his death in 1918. A newly edited and transcribed version of \"Owl Sacred Pack,\" one of the culturally most significant of the stories written by Kiyana has recently been published.\n\nBecause Great Lakes Aboriginal syllabics is not part of the Unicode standards, glyphs for this table have been approximated with cursive Latin script.\n\n"}
{"id": "43374365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43374365", "title": "Gulab Kothari", "text": "Gulab Kothari\n\nGulab Kothari is an Indian author, journalist and editor-in-chief of Indian daily newspaper \"Rajasthan Patrika\". He is the winner of Moortidevi Award – 2011, the annual literary award presented by Bharatiya Jnanpith, for his book \"Mein Hi Radha, Mein Hi Krishna\". Kothari is known for his contributions to Vedic Studies prominent among which is \"Maanas\".\n\nKothari received D. Litt. in philosophy from Intercultural Open University in 2002. In March 2004, Kothari was nominated as the chairman and professor of Pandit Madhusudan Ojha chair to promote research on Vedas at the University of Rajasthan. In view of his contributions to Yoga, he was conferred with Doctor of Philosophy in 2008 by OkiDo Global Research Institute, Italy. He is international advisor to the IOUF and OkiDo Global Research Institute Italy. In 2014, Kothari received Honorary Doctorate of Literature by Amity University, Jaipur. In August 2014, Kothari was awarded PhD in administration from Universidad Central de Nicaragrua (UCN) and Universidad Azteca (UA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42431271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42431271", "title": "Gunnila Grubb", "text": "Gunnila Grubb\n\nGunnila Grubb (13 January 1692, Stockholm – 20 August 1729, Stockholm) was a Swedish writer. She wrote spiritual songs inspired by Pietism and Mysticism.\n\nGunnila Grubb was the daughter of the Stockholm merchant Mikael Vilhelmsson Grubb and Katarina Sohm, and was married in 1716 to the merchant Nils Grubb. She was the mother of Michael Grubb, ennobled as af Grubbens, and Catharina Elisabet Grubb.\n\nGrubb was a member of the circles of radical members of Pietism and the Moravian Church. She is referred to as an example of the strong role females could play within these movements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29140065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29140065", "title": "Gurara language", "text": "Gurara language\n\nGurara (Gourara) is a Zenati Berber language spoken in the Gourara (\"Tigurarin\") region, an archipelago of oases surrounding the town of Timimoun in southwestern Algeria. \"Ethnologue\" gives it the generic name \"Taznatit\" (\"Zenati\"), along with Tuwat spoken to its south; however, Blench (2006) classifies Gurara as a dialect of Mzab–Wargla and Tuwat as a dialect of the Riff languages.\n\nGurara and Tuwat are the only Berber languages to change \"r\" in certain coda positions to a laryngeal \"ħ\"; in other contexts it drops \"r\", turning a preceding schwa into \"a\", and this latter phenomenon exists also in Zenata Rif-Berber in the far northern Morocco. \n\nThere is inconclusive evidence for Songhay influence on Gurara.\n\nThe local tradition of \"ahellil\" poetry and music in Gurara, described in Mouloud Mammeri's \"L'Ahellil du Gourara\", has been listed as part of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO.\n"}
{"id": "35061518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35061518", "title": "Gwamhi-Wuri language", "text": "Gwamhi-Wuri language\n\nGwamhi-Wuri (Wurə-Gwamhyə-Mba), or Lyase, is a Kainji language of Nigeria. It is named after its two dialects, which have only slight differences. \"Lyase-Ne\" means 'mother togue'.\n"}
{"id": "3697831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3697831", "title": "History of writing", "text": "History of writing\n\nThe history of writing traces the development of expressing language by letters or other marks and also the studies and descriptions of these developments.\n\nIn the history of how writing systems have evolved over in different human civilizations, more complete writing systems were preceded by \"proto-writing\", systems of ideographic or early mnemonic symbols. \"True writing\", in which the content of a linguistic utterance is encoded so that another reader can reconstruct, with a fair degree of accuracy, the exact utterance written down, is a later development. It is distinguished from proto-writing, which typically avoids encoding grammatical words and affixes, making it more difficult or impossible to reconstruct the exact meaning intended by the writer unless a great deal of context is already known in advance. One of the earliest forms of written expression is cuneiform.\n\nIt is generally agreed that true writing of language (not only numbers, which goes back much further) was independently conceived and developed in at least two ancient civilizations and possibly more. The two places where it is most certain that the concept of writing was both conceived and developed independently are in ancient Sumer (in Mesopotamia), between 3400 and 3300 BC, and much later in Mesoamerica (by 300 BC) because no precursors have been found to either of these in their respective regions. Several Mesoamerican scripts are known, the oldest being from the Olmec or Zapotec of Mexico.\n\nIndependent writing systems also arose in Egypt around 3100 BC and in China around 1200 BC in Shang dynasty (商朝), but historians debate whether these writing systems were developed completely independently of Sumerian writing or whether either or both were inspired by Sumerian writing via a process of cultural diffusion. That is, it is possible that the concept of representing language by using writing, though not necessarily the specifics of how such a system worked, was passed on by traders or merchants traveling between the two regions. (More recent examples of this include Pahawh Hmong and the Cherokee syllabary.)\n\nAncient Chinese characters are considered by many to be an independent invention because there is no evidence of contact between ancient China and the literate civilizations of the Near East, and because of the distinct differences between the Mesopotamian and Chinese approaches to logography and phonetic representation. Egyptian script is dissimilar from Mesopotamian cuneiform, but similarities in concepts and in earliest attestation suggest that the idea of writing may have come to Egypt from Mesopotamia. In 1999, \"Archaeology Magazine\" reported that the earliest Egyptian glyphs date back to 3400 BC, which \"challenge the commonly held belief that early logographs, pictographic symbols representing a specific place, object, or quantity, first evolved into more complex phonetic symbols in Mesopotamia.\"\n\nSimilar debate surrounds the Indus script of the Bronze Age Indus Valley civilization, the Rongorongo script of Easter Island, and the Vinča symbols dated around 5,500 BCE. All are undeciphered, and so it is unknown if they represent true writing, proto-writing, or something else.\n\nSymbolic communication systems are distinguished from writing systems in that one must usually understand something of the associated spoken language to comprehend the text. In contrast, symbolic systems, such as information signs, painting, maps, and mathematics, often do not require prior knowledge of a spoken language. Every human community possesses language, a feature regarded by many as an innate and defining condition of mankind (see Origin of language). However the development of writing systems, and their partial supplantation of traditional oral systems of communication, have been sporadic, uneven, and slow. Once established, writing systems on the whole change more slowly than their spoken counterparts and often preserve features and expressions that no longer exist in the spoken language. The greatest benefit of writing is that it provides the tool by which society can record information consistently and in greater detail, something that could not be achieved as well previously by spoken word. Writing allows societies to transmit information and to share knowledge.\n\nScholars make a reasonable distinction between prehistory and history of early writing but have disagreed concerning when prehistory becomes history and when proto-writing became \"true writing.\" The definition is largely subjective. Writing, in its most general terms, is a method of recording information and is composed of graphemes, which may in turn be composed of glyphs.\n\nThe emergence of writing in a given area is usually followed by several centuries of fragmentary inscriptions. Historians mark the \"historicity\" of a culture by the presence of coherent texts in the culture's writing system(s).\n\nThe invention of writing was not a one-time event but was a gradual process initiated by the appearance of symbols, possibly first for cultic purposes.\n\nA conventional \"proto-writing to true writing\" system follows a general series of developmental stages:\n\nThe best known picture writing system of ideographic or early mnemonic symbols are:\nIn the Old World, true writing systems developed from neolithic writing in the Early Bronze Age (4th millennium BC). The Sumerian archaic (pre-cuneiform) writing and the Egyptian hieroglyphs are generally considered the earliest true writing systems, both emerging out of their ancestral proto-literate symbol systems from 3400–3100 BC, with earliest coherent texts from about 2600 BC.\n\nLiterature and writing, though obviously connected, are not synonymous. The very first writings from ancient Sumer by any reasonable definition do not constitute literature. The same is true of some of the early Egyptian hieroglyphics and the thousands of ancient Chinese government records. The \"history of literature\" begins with the history of writing. Scholars have disagreed concerning when written record-keeping became more like literature than anything else, but \"literature\" can have several meanings. The term could be applied broadly to mean any symbolic record from images and sculptures to letters. The oldest surviving literary texts date from a full millennium after the invention of writing to the late 3rd millennium BC. The earliest literary authors known by name are Ptahhotep (who wrote in Egyptian) and Enheduanna (who wrote in Sumerian), dating to around the 24th and 23rd centuries BC, respectively. In the early literate societies, as much as 600 years passed from the first inscriptions to the first coherent textual sources: i.e., from around 3100 to 2600 BC.\n\nThe first writing systems of the Early Bronze Age were not a sudden invention. Rather, they were a development based on earlier traditions of symbol systems that cannot be classified as proper writing but have many of the characteristics of writing. These systems may be described as \"proto-writing.\" They used ideographic or early mnemonic symbols to convey information, but it probably directly contained no natural language.\nThese systems emerged in the early Neolithic period, as early as the 7th millennium BC evidenced by the Jiahu symbols in China.\n\nIn 2003, tortoise shells were found in 24 Neolithic graves excavated at Jiahu, Henan province, northern China, with radiocarbon dates from the 7th millennium BC. According to some archaeologists, the symbols carved on the shells had similarities to the late 2nd millennium BC oracle bone script. Most archaeologists have dismissed this claim as insufficiently substantiated, claiming that simple geometric designs, such as those found on the Jiahu shells, cannot be linked to early writing. Other neolithic signs have also been found in China.\n\nThe Dispilio Tablet of the late 6th millennium is similar. The hieroglyphic scripts of the Ancient Near East (Egyptian, Sumerian proto-Cuneiform, and Cretan) seamlessly emerge from such symbol systems so that it is difficult to say at what exact time writing developed from proto-writing. Further, very little is known about the symbols' meanings.\n\nThe Vinča symbols, sometimes called the Danube script, Vinča signs, Vinča script, Vinča–Turdaș script, Old European script, etc., are a set of symbols found on Neolithic era (6th to 5th millennia BC) artifacts from the Vinča culture of Central Europe and Southeastern Europe.\n\nEven after the Neolithic, several cultures went through an intermediate stage of proto-writing before they used proper writing. The \"Slavic runes\" from the 7th and 8th centuries AD, mentioned by a few medieval authors, may have been such a system. The quipu of the Incas (15th century AD), sometimes called \"talking knots,\" may have been of a similar nature. Another example is the pictographs invented by Uyaquk before the development of the Yugtun syllabary (c. 1900).\n\nWriting emerged in many different cultures in the Bronze Age. Examples are the cuneiform writing of the Sumerians, Egyptian hieroglyphs, Cretan hieroglyphs, Chinese logographs, Indus script, and the Olmec script of Mesoamerica. The Chinese script likely developed independently of the Middle Eastern scripts around 1600 BC. The pre-Columbian Mesoamerican writing systems (including Olmec and Maya scripts) are also generally believed to have had independent origins.\nIt is thought that the first true alphabetic writing was developed around 2000 BC for Semitic workers in the Sinai by giving mostly Egyptian hieratic glyphs Semitic values (see History of the alphabet and Proto-Sinaitic alphabet). The Ge'ez writing system of Ethiopia is considered Semitic. It is likely to be of semi-independent origin, having roots in the Meroitic Sudanese ideogram system. Most other alphabets in the world today either descended from this one innovation, many via the Phoenician alphabet, or were directly inspired by its design. In Italy, about 500 years passed from the early Old Italic alphabet to Plautus (750 to 250 BC), and in the case of the Germanic peoples, the corresponding time span is again similar, from the first Elder Futhark inscriptions to early texts like the \"Abrogans\" (c. AD 200 to 750).\n\nThe original Sumerian writing system derives from a system of clay tokens used to represent commodities. By the end of the 4th millennium BC, this had evolved into a method of keeping accounts, using a round-shaped stylus impressed into soft clay at different angles for recording numbers. This was gradually augmented with pictographic writing by using a sharp stylus to indicate what was being counted. Round-stylus and sharp-stylus writing were gradually replaced around 2700–2500 BC by writing using a wedge-shaped stylus (hence the term cuneiform), at first only for logograms, but developed to include phonetic elements by the 29th century BC. About 2600 BC, cuneiform began to represent syllables of the Sumerian language. Finally, cuneiform writing became a general purpose writing system for logograms, syllables, and numbers. From the 26th century BC, this script was adapted to the Akkadian language, and from there to others, such as Hurrian and Hittite. Scripts similar in appearance to this writing system include those for Ugaritic and Old Persian.\n\nWriting was very important in maintaining the Egyptian empire, and literacy was concentrated among an educated elite of scribes. Only people from certain backgrounds were allowed to train as scribes, in the service of temple, royal (pharaonic), and military authorities.\n\nGeoffrey Sampson believes that most scholars hold that Egyptian hieroglyphs \"came into existence a little after Sumerian script, and ... probably [were] invented under the influence of the latter ...\" This view, however, is strongly contested by other scholars. Dreyer's findings at Tomb UJ at Abydos in Upper Egypt clearly show place names written in hieroglyphs (up to four in number) recognizable as signs, which persisted and were employed during later periods and which are written and read phonetically. The tomb is dated to c. 3250 BC and demonstrates that such writing (on bone and ivory labels) is a more advanced form of writing than was evident in Sumer at that date. It is argued, therefore, that the Egyptian writing system, which is in any case very different from the Mesopotamian, could not have been the result of influence from a less-developed system existing at that date in Sumer.\n\nThe undeciphered Proto-Elamite script emerges from as early as 3100 BC. It is believed to have evolved into Linear Elamite by the later 3rd millennium and then replaced by Elamite Cuneiform adopted from Akkadian.\n\nThe Middle Bronze Age Indus script, which dates back to the early Harappan phase of around 3000 BC in ancient north western India and what is now Pakistan, has not yet been deciphered. It is unclear whether it should be considered an example of proto-writing or whether it is actual writing of the logographic-syllabic type of the other Bronze Age writing systems. Mortimer Wheeler recognises the style of writing as boustrophedon, where \"this stability suggests a precarious maturity.\"\n\nThe first pure alphabets (properly, \"abjads\", mapping single symbols to single phonemes, but not necessarily each phoneme to a symbol) emerged around 1800 BC in Ancient Egypt, as a representation of language developed by Semitic workers in Egypt, but by then alphabetic principles had a slight possibility of being inculcated into Egyptian hieroglyphs for upwards of a millennium. These early abjads remained of marginal importance for several centuries, and it is only towards the end of the Bronze Age that the Proto-Sinaitic script splits into the Proto-Canaanite alphabet (c. 1400 BC) Byblos syllabary and the South Arabian alphabet (c. 1200 BC). The Proto-Canaanite was probably somehow influenced by the undeciphered Byblos syllabary and, in turn, inspired the Ugaritic alphabet (c. 1300 BC).\n\nAnatolian hieroglyphs are an indigenous hieroglyphic script native to western Anatolia, used to record the Hieroglyphic Luwian language. It first appeared on Luwian royal seals from the 14th century BC.\n\nThe earliest confirmed evidence of the Chinese script yet discovered is the body of inscriptions on oracle bones from the late Shang dynasty (c. 1200–1050 BC). From the Shang Dynasty, most of this writing has survived on bones or bronze implements (\"bronze script\"). Markings on turtle shells, or \"jiaguwen\", have been carbon-dated to around 1500 BC. Historians have found that the type of medium chosen depended on the subject of the writing.\n\nThere have recently been discoveries of tortoise-shell carvings dating back to c. 6000 BC, like Jiahu Script, Banpo Script, but whether or not the carvings are complex enough to qualify as writing is under debate. At Damaidi in the Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, 3,172 cliff carvings dating to 6000–5000 BC have been discovered, featuring 8,453 individual characters, such as the sun, moon, stars, gods, and scenes of hunting or grazing. These pictographs are reputed to be similar to the earliest characters confirmed to be written Chinese. If it is deemed to be a written language, writing in China will predate Mesopotamian cuneiform, long acknowledged as the first appearance of writing, by some 2,000 years; however it is more likely that the inscriptions are rather a form of proto-writing, similar to the contemporary European Vinca script.\n\nCretan hieroglyphs are found on artifacts of Crete (early-to-mid-2nd millennium BC, MM I to MM III, overlapping with Linear A from MM IIA at the earliest). Linear B, the writing system of the Mycenaean Greeks, has been deciphered while Linear A has yet to be deciphered. The sequence and the geographical spread of the three overlapping, but distinct, writing systems can be summarized as follows (note that the beginning date refers to first attestations, the assumed origins of all scripts lie further back in the past):\n\nA stone slab with 3,000-year-old writing, the Cascajal Block, was discovered in the Mexican state of Veracruz, and is an example of the oldest script in the Western Hemisphere, preceding the oldest Zapotec writing dated to about 500 BC.\n\nOf several pre-Columbian scripts in Mesoamerica, the one that appears to have been best developed, and has been fully deciphered, is the Maya script. The earliest inscriptions which are identifiably Maya date to the 3rd century BC, and writing was in continuous use until shortly after the arrival of the Spanish conquistadores in the 16th century AD. Maya writing used logograms complemented by a set of syllabic glyphs: a combination somewhat similar to modern Japanese writing.\n\nThe Phoenician alphabet is simply the Proto-Canaanite alphabet as it was continued into the Iron Age (conventionally taken from a cut-off date of 1050 BC). This alphabet gave rise to the Aramaic and Greek alphabets. These in turn led to the writing systems used throughout regions ranging from Western Asia to Africa and Europe. For its part the Greek alphabet introduced for the first time explicit symbols for vowel sounds. The Greek and Latin alphabets in the early centuries of the Common Era gave rise to several European scripts such as the Runes and the Gothic and Cyrillic alphabets while the Aramaic alphabet evolved into the Hebrew, Syriac and Arabic abjads and the South Arabian alphabet gave rise to the Ge'ez abugida. The Brahmic family of India is believed by some scholars to have derived from the Aramaic alphabet as well.\n\nThe history of the Greek alphabet started when the Greeks borrowed the Phoenician alphabet and adapted it to their own language. The letters of the Greek alphabet are more or less the same as those of the Phoenician alphabet, and in modern times both alphabets are arranged in the same order. The adapter(s) of the Phoenician system added three letters to the end of the series, called the \"supplementals\". Several varieties of the Greek alphabet developed. One, known as Western Greek or Chalcidian, was used west of Athens and in southern Italy. The other variation, known as Eastern Greek, was used in present-day Turkey and by the Athenians, and eventually the rest of the world that spoke Greek adopted this variation. After first writing right to left, like the Phoenicians, the Greeks eventually chose to write from left to right.\n\nGreek is in turn the source for all the modern scripts of Europe. The most widespread descendant of Greek is the Latin script, named for the Latins, a central Italian people who came to dominate Europe with the rise of Rome. The Romans learned writing in about the 5th century BC from the Etruscan civilization, who used one of a number of Italic scripts derived from the western Greeks. Due to the cultural dominance of the Roman state, the other Italic scripts have not survived in any great quantity, and the Etruscan language is mostly lost.\n\nWith the collapse of the Roman authority in Western Europe, the literary development became largely confined to the Eastern Roman Empire and the Persian Empire. Latin, never one of the primary literary languages, rapidly declined in importance (except within the Church of Rome). The primary literary languages were Greek and Persian, though other languages such as Syriac and Coptic were important too.\n\nThe rise of Islam in the 7th century led to the rapid rise of Arabic as a major literary language in the region. Arabic and Persian quickly began to overshadow Greek's role as a language of scholarship. Arabic script was adopted as the primary script of the Persian language and the Turkish language. This script also heavily influenced the development of the cursive scripts of Greek, the Slavic languages, Latin, and other languages. The Arabic language also served to spread the Hindu–Arabic numeral system throughout Europe. By the beginning of the second millennium the city of Cordoba in modern Spain, had become one of the foremost intellectual centers of the world and contained the world's largest library at the time. Its position as a crossroads between the Islamic and Western Christian worlds helped fuel intellectual development and written communication between both cultures.\n\nBy the 14th century a rebirth, or \"renaissance\", had emerged in Western Europe, leading to a temporary revival of the importance of Greek, and a slow revival of Latin as a significant literary language. A similar though smaller emergence occurred in Eastern Europe, especially in Russia. At the same time Arabic and Persian began a slow decline in importance as the Islamic Golden Age ended. The revival of literary development in Western Europe led to many innovations in the Latin alphabet and the diversification of the alphabet to codify the phonologies of the various languages.\n\nThe nature of writing has been constantly evolving, particularly due to the development of new technologies over the centuries. The pen, the printing press, the computer and the mobile phone are all technological developments which have altered what is written, and the medium through which the written word is produced. Particularly with the advent of digital technologies, namely the computer and the mobile phone, characters can be formed by the press of a button, rather than making a physical motion with the hand.\n\nThe nature of the written word has recently evolved to include an informal, colloquial written style, in which an everyday conversation can occur through writing rather than speaking. Written communication can also be delivered with minimal time delay (e-mail, SMS), and in some cases, with an imperceptible time delay (instant messaging). Writing is a preservable means of communication. Some people regard the growth of multimedia literacy as the first step towards a postliterate society.\n\nThere is no very definite statement as to the material which was in most common use for the purposes of writing at the start of the early writing systems. In all ages it has been customary to engrave on stone or metal, or other durable material, with the view of securing the permanency of the record; and accordingly, in the very commencement of the national history of Israel, it is read of the two tables of the law written in stone, and of a subsequent writing of the law on stone. In the latter case there is this peculiarity, that plaster (sic, lime or gypsum) was used along with stone, a combination of materials which is illustrated by comparison of the practice of the Egyptian engravers, who, having first carefully smoothed the stone, filled up the faulty places with gypsum or cement, in order to obtain a perfectly uniform surface on which to execute their engravings. Metals, such as stamped coins, are mentioned as a material of writing; they include lead, brass, and gold. To the engraving of gems there is reference also, such as with seals or signets.\n\nThe common materials of writing were the tablet and the roll, the former probably having a Chaldean origin, the latter an Egyptian. The tablets of the Chaldeans are among the most remarkable of their remains. There are small pieces of clay, somewhat rudely shaped into a form resembling a pillow, and thickly inscribed with cuneiform characters. Similar use has been seen in hollow cylinders, or prisms of six or eight sides, formed of fine terra cotta, sometimes glazed, on which the characters were traced with a small stylus, in some specimens so minutely as to be capable of decipherment only with the aid of a magnifying-glass.\n\nIn Egypt the principal writing material was of quite a different sort. Wooden tablets are found pictured on the monuments; but the material which was in common use, even from very ancient times, was the papyrus. This reed, found chiefly in Lower Egypt, had various economic means for writing, the pith was taken out, and divided by a pointed instrument into the thin pieces of which it is composed; it was then flattened by pressure, and the strips glued together, other strips being placed at right angles to them, so that a roll of any length might be manufactured. Writing seems to have become more widespread with the invention of papyrus in Egypt. That this material was in use in Egypt from a very early period is evidenced by still existing papyrus of the earliest Theban dynasties. As the papyrus, being in great demand, and exported to all parts of the world, became very costly, other materials were often used instead of it, among which is mentioned leather, a few leather mills of an early period having been found in the tombs. Parchment, using sheepskins left after the wool was removed for cloth, was sometimes cheaper than papyrus, which had to be imported outside Egypt. With the invention of wood-pulp paper, the cost of writing material began a steady decline.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58866522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58866522", "title": "Jae (author)", "text": "Jae (author)\n\nJae (real name \"Sandra Gerth\"; born March 19, 1978 in Müllheim) is a German author of lesbian fiction. Her work is published in English as well as in German.\n\nJae grew up in the southwestern corner of Germany and started writing at the age of eleven. She graduated from the University of Freiburg in 2004 with a degree in psychology. She worked as a psychologist until 2013, when she started writing full-time. She is also the senior editor at Ylva Publishing, one of the largest lesbian fiction publishing houses in the world.\n\nHer writing career began in 2007, when she published the first edition of \"Backwards to Oregon\" with L-Book ePublisher, a now-defunct publishing house. In 2012, she joined Ylva Publishing. She mostly writes lesbian romances across all subgenres, including contemporary romance, historical romance, paranormal romance, and romantic suspense. She writes her novels in English and then translates them into her native language, German.\n\nHer works won numerous awards, among them:\n\n\nJae resides in Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany.\n\nSeries\n\nStandalone romances:\n\n\nHollywood series\n\n\nMoonstone series\n\n\nOregon series\n\n\nPortland Police Bureau series\n\n\nThe Shape-Shifter series\n\n\nThe Vampire Diet series\n\n\nAudiobooks\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22295423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22295423", "title": "Kaj Skagen", "text": "Kaj Skagen\n\nKaj Skagen (born October 23, 1949 in Strandebarm) is a Norwegian writer. He received the Riksmål Society Literature Prize in 1991. His first book \"Gatedikt\" was published in 1971. From 1978 to 1989, he published and edited the periodical \"Arken\". In 1982 he won the first prize of a national novel contest with the novel \"Broene brenner\". In 1983 he published \"Bazarovs barn\", a harsh critique of contemporary Norwegian literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "8662408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8662408", "title": "Khmer grammar", "text": "Khmer grammar\n\nThis article describes the grammar of the Khmer (Cambodian) language, focusing on the standard dialect.\n\nKhmer is primarily an analytic language, with no inflection. There is some derivation by means of prefixes and infixes, but it is no longer always productive, as those elements are often crystallized in words inherited from Old Khmer. Even in Old Khmer, the same affix could have multiple functions (for example, it could serve as a nominalizer in one word and as a causativizer in another).\n\nA common prefix is [kaː-], used to convert verbs to nouns denoting actions or activities. A common infix has the form or (or with other vowels), inserted after an initial consonant, especially to convert adjectives or verbs into nouns.\n\nCompounding is common; in a compound of two nouns, the head generally comes first, often the reverse of the English order: \"duck egg\" is , literally \"egg-duck\".\n\nSince Khmer is an analytic language, word order is relatively fixed, as changes in word order often affect meaning. Khmer is generally a subject–verb–object (SVO) language. Topicalization is common: the topic of the sentence is often placed at the start, with the rest of the sentence a comment on that topic.\n\nLike in English, prepositions are used rather than postpositions (words meaning \"in\", \"on\", etc. precede the noun that they govern). The language is generally head-initial so modifiers come after the words modified (adjectives, possessives, demonstratives, relative clauses, etc. follow nouns; adverbs mostly follow verbs; and so on).\n\nKhmer nouns have no grammatical gender or singular/plural inflections. There are no articles, but indefiniteness is often expressed by the word for \"one\" following the noun. Plurality can be marked by postnominal particles, numerals, or reduplication of a following adjective, which, although it is similar to intensification, is usually differentiated by context:\n\nPossessives are formed by placing the noun or pronoun representing the possessor after the main noun, often with the word between them. (The word is also a noun, meaning \"thing\".)\n\nIn Khmer, a number that indicates quantity follows the noun.\n\nExceptions include nouns indicating passage of time such as hours or days, units of measurements and currencies, all of which function as noun classifiers without the explicit mention of what is being classified. Reversal of the order can change the meaning:\n\nClassifying particles for use with numerals and nouns exist but are optional, unlike Thai, except in introductory clauses. They are used for clarity or formality, and number precedes classifiers.\n\nThe following example illustrates the superfluous mention of what is being classified:\n\nCounting in Khmer is based on a biquinary system (6 to 9 have the form \"five one\", \"five two\", etc.) However, the words for multiples of ten from 30 to 90 are not related to the basic Khmer numbers but are probably borrowed from Thai. The Khmer script has its own versions of the Arabic numerals.\nThe principal number words are listed in the following table, which gives Western and Khmer digits, Khmer spelling and IPA transcription:\n\nIntermediate numbers are formed by compounding the above elements. Powers of ten are denoted by (100), (1,000), (10,000), (100,000), (1,000,000) and (10,000,000). For more information, see Khmer numerals.\n\nOrdinal numbers are formed by placing the particle before the corresponding cardinal number.\n\nIn Khmer, demonstratives follow the nouns that they modify. In standard literary Khmer, there are two degrees of distance, but there are other distinctions in colloquial language. Demonstratives can also function as articles only after introductory clauses.\n\nThe pronominal system is complex and is full of honorific variations. There is generally no single pronoun appropriate for all situations, with the choice of pronoun based on age, gender, and relationship. Nouns referring to a specific person, like brother or uncle, can be used as pronouns when even when one directly addresses the person.\n\nFor some examples of typical pronoun forms, see Khmer language – Social registers. Below is a table of the most common kinship terms that are also used as personal pronouns.\n\nAdjectives in Khmer follows the noun; doubling the adjective can indicate plurality or intensify the meaning (see Nouns above). Adjectives follow verbs when they function as adverbs. Adjectives are actually stative verbs and are used without a copula and can be negated, like other verbs.\n\nComparatives are expressed using the word /ciəŋ/: \"A X /ciəŋ/ [B]\" (A is more X [than B]). The most common way to express superlatives is with /ciəŋ keː/: \"A X /ciəŋ keː/\" (A is X-est of all).\n\nIn Khmer, nouns and adjectives can be reduplicated. Reduplication can occur as perfect reduplicates or by altering the rhyme of words. Khmer also uses compound reduplication in which two phonologically unrelated words with similar or identical meanings are compounded.\n\nThe Khmer script includes the symbol ៗ, which indicates that the preceding word or phrase is to be repeated.\n\nAs is typical of most East Asian languages, Khmer verbs do not inflect at all; tense and aspect can be expressed using particles (such as កំពុង , placed before a verb to express continuous aspect) and adverbs (such as \"yesterday\", \"earlier\", \"tomorrow\"), or may be understood from context. Serial verb construction is quite common.\n\nYes-no questions can be formed by placing the particle /teː/ at the end of a sentence. This particle can also serve as an emphatic particle (it is also used in negative sentences, as shown below), and so intonation may be required to indicate that a question is being asked.\n\nIn \"wh\"-questions, the question word generally remains in its usual grammatical position in the sentence, rather than being brought to the start as in English (that is, \"wh\"-fronting does not normally take place).\n\nVerbs can be negated in three primary fashions, all of which convey a slightly different connotation or formality. The most common method of negation is a discontinuous construction placing \" (not, not to be) before the verb and ending the verb phrase with \", which, as a stand-alone word can be either \"no\" or a particle contradicting a previous statement. Colloquially, the final \" may be omitted.\n\nAnother fairly common way of indicating negation uses (also spelled ) \" instead of . \"\", as an independent word, means \"without\" or \"lacking\" and expresses a similar connotation when used to negate a verb.\n\nA third method is basically identical to the first method except \" is used instead of \". This is used only in literary or very formal contexts.\n\n"}
{"id": "38682047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38682047", "title": "Leinong language", "text": "Leinong language\n\nLeinong Naga, or Htang Ngan, is a Sino-Tibetan language spoken in Burma. Leinong Naga is spoken in about 25 villages of Lahe Township and northwestern Hkamti Township, Naga Self-Administered Zone (formerly administered as part of Hkamti District), Sagaing Division, Myanmar (\"Ethnologue\"). Dialects are Yao Dyang (Northern Leinong, Zau Dyang) and Southern Leinong (\"Ethnologue\").\n\n"}
{"id": "31676584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31676584", "title": "Linguistic variety in Mauritius", "text": "Linguistic variety in Mauritius\n\nNowadays, no one could still claim his pure race status. Ethnic, social and linguistic differences become each day more and more present and marked all over the world. Time, history and continuous population intermingling across boundaries led to create cosmopolitan beings, that is to say world citizens who, in spite of their singularity, manage to bring themselves together in order to create a unique and single nation. Among the nations most affected by this cross-fertilization is notably found Mauritius. The social and linguistic diversity of this country makes it unique and contribute to its wealth. It arouses curiosity, urges us to deepen our knowledge on the subject and is, to this extent, worth being studied.\n\nMauritius was first discovered by Arab sailors during the 5th century. The island was rediscovered by the Portuguese during the 16th century. At the same time, the latter also noticed the existence of other territories located in the Pacific Ocean, near Madagascar. Nevertheless, this new territorial awareness did not urge the Portuguese to settle in the newly discovered islands so that this geographical area will only be exploited later on to become a series of international centres where different ethnic groups will meet and therefore create a new heterogeneous culture. In the 17th century, the Dutch and the French began to develop an interest for these new territories. This interest was motivated by strategic and commercial reasons though they failed in their attempt to colonize the previously mentioned area. Indeed, the Dutch left the island in 1710 after having honoured their Prince, Maurice of Nassau, by naming the island \"Mauritius\". With the arrival of the French, this denomination will be replaced by \"Île de France\".\n\nThe first French colonists arrived in Mauritius in 1721 and decided to settle for strategic reasons. Indeed, they used the island as a military and commercial cornerstone because, at this time of the history, the French had in mind to conquer India and expand the spice trade. Mauritius was therefore useful as a port of call since it gave the French the opportunity to obtain fresh supplies and rest from their long journey. Gradually, the French will call in slaves mainly coming from Africa, Madagascar, Mozambique, and India in order to build a large harbour in Mauritius. This interaction between French and African people will then lead to the creation of a pidgin, that is to say, a language that is only used by populations of distinct origins as a means of communication. A \"pidgin\", by definition, isn’t the mother tongue of any community but rather emerges from the interaction of each language spoken by each distinct community. When a pidgin becomes further used by new generations as a mother tongue, it loses its name of pidgin and begins to be called \"Creole\". As the consequence of the French colonization, the Creole still spoken nowadays in Mauritius has French roots. Moreover, from this time on, the country will remain well influenced by the French culture, its language and its religion. A great number of Indians will incidentally convert to Christianity. The Indo-Mauritians who adopted a French culture at this point of the history will be considered as Creoles, as opposed to the Indo-Mauritians who will settle in the island much later.\n\nIn 1810, the island becomes British. The new colonizers will give it back its former name of \"Mauritius\" and will carry out various important changes even though they will allow Creoles to keep their culture, religion (mostly Christianity), laws, and property. First, they will develop the exploitation of sugar cane, what will better the economic status of the island. Then, the island will know a big improvement in the field of human rights with abolition of slavery in 1835. As a consequence of this important change, a noticeable number of Indians and Chinese will emigrate to the island and become indentured labourers or shopkeepers. The emergence of new ethnic communities will enhance the Mauritian culture in so far as it will increase the number of languages spoken throughout the territory. Among these new languages are Bhojpuri (spoken by Indians coming from Calcutta), Hindi, Urdu, Tamil, Telugu (languages spoken by Indians coming from Madras), Marathi (spoken by populations coming from Bombay), Hakka Chinese and Cantonese (varieties of Chinese). Moreover, at this time, the English language is used in the administration at the expense of the French one. Nevertheless, the English people settled in the island tended to adopt the French culture and the Franco-Mauritians’ language and will only try to promote their own language during the 19th century.\n\nIn 1968, Mauritius becomes an independent state even though it still belongs to the Commonwealth of Nations. The island only becomes a Republic in 1992. The economy of the land is no more limited to the exploitation of sugar cane and one begins to rely on new resources such as industry, tourism, capital market. In 2001, the island counts 1 185 000 inhabitants. This population is composed of 68% of Indians (Tamils, Telegus, Marathis), 30% of \"General Population\" (28% of Creoles and 2% of Whites) and 2% of Chinese. These heterogeneous communities cohabit rather pacifically although discrimination and racism towards some cultures still exist today \n\nIn Mauritius, the political organization is divided into four linguistic communities among which are Hindus, Muslims, Sino-Mauritians, and the \"General Population\". Contrarily to the two other communities, Hindu and Muslim communities differ from the others because of their belonging to a religious – and not ethnic – group.\n\nHindus and Muslims belong to the Indo-Mauritian group since they both are communities coming from India. Some Indians only speak Bhojpuri and know only little Hindi and Urdu in spite of the fact that its knowledge could be an important asset in international trade, these two languages being respectively the official languages of India and Pakistan.\n\nIt is the community that is composed of Bhojpuris, Marathis, Telegus, Tamils, Gujaratis, and Sindhis.\n\nAmong Muslims there are Biharis, Gujaratis, and Kutchis.\n\nHakka Chinese and Cantonese belong to the Sino-Mauritian community. They mainly come from Guandgong (formerly Cantonese), from the South of China, from Singapore and Penang.\n\nThe \"General Population\" is made out of White people, Franco-Mauritians (descendant of colonizers), and Creoles. Nevertheless, the denomination Creole still has a pejorative connotation and still carries the idea of lower social class. It is the reason why some people prefer to use the terminology Persons of Color to designate the General Population.\n\nMost people belonging to a same ethnic group, a same social class and having a same origin tend to live in a same area, which is not problematic since the roads are well developed in the whole island. Therefore, it is easy to move from one to the other extreme of the Mauritian territory. Thanks to the important development of roads, little villages are as well accessible as bigger cities.\n\nMost Hindus prefer to live in the country whereas other Indo-Mauritians – Muslims – prefer more urbanized areas. The population found in the capital and in urbanized zones is mostly the Sino-Mauritian population and the \"General Population\".\n\nEach community is different from another from its particularities, culture, language and religion. It is the reason why so many distinct religions are spoken throughout the island. The four most developed religions are Hinduism, Islam, Catholicism and Buddhism. They are mostly practiced respectively by Hindus, Muslims, the \"General Population\" and Sino-Mauritians.\n\nAt first, Mauritius was an empty island where little by little, people settled. As they did so, everyone came in with their culture, language and religious identity. This is what explains the multicultural status of island and the existence of so many worships in such a small territory. Each religion brought by each community is still practiced in the language spoken by this community or at least in the original language in which this particular religion was practiced.\n\nHindus use Hindi, Telugu,Tamil, and Marathi in their worship. Most here Telugu is used as third language here over 30000 Telugu people are living With there un forgettable traditions.Even though Bhojpuri is a language well used by Hindus in their daily life, it is not used as a language of worship because of its spoken status which confer it its unworthiness.\n\nMuslims read the Koran in Arabic but the imam communicates with his congregation in Urdu or in Gujarati.\n\nAs far as Buddhists are concerned, the language used in the practice of their worship is the Chinese. Finally, the Catholics mainly use the French language in their cult since Creole as the same kind of negative connotation as Bhojpuri which is considered as an unworthy language. Therefore, Creole is only used by clergymen when directly addressing to the audience (when telling sermons for instance).\n\nThe only official language of Mauritius is English, which is consequently the language of administration. Nevertheless, French is spoken at the Assembly and by the deputies of the General Population. It is also necessary to mention the difference between oral and written use of the language. Official documents are redacted in English whereas French and Creole are accepted when addressing the population. Indeed, by using the Creole language, the members of the administration make sure that everyone understands what is being said. It is incidentally used during the elections. Indian and Chinese languages are not really used by the state except when a politician directly targets a specific community. In this case, Hindi and Bhojpuri could for example be used.\n\nFrench is the language most used in the media even though it is rather frequent to come across English headlines in the newspapers. Moreover, English can also be found in British or American press as well as in government communications although comments and conclusions raised at the legislative Assembly are usually translated into French. Creole also appears in the media, more specifically in humorous or parodic quotes and in left-wing press. In this field, the least represented languages are the Indian and Chinese languages even though Hindustani – a word referring to Hindi and Urdu as spoken languages – is quite used in the Indian and Pakistani cinema.\n\nContrarily to many countries in which most books are written and published in the official language of the specific territory, Mauritius works differently. First, it is important to differentiate the different types of books existing. Literature is often written in French whereas one usually deals with scientific and technical works in English since English is the language used in academic education and research studies. As far as Indo-Mauritians are concerned, only books of religious or didactical nature are written. At the present time, few works are redacted in Creole, Bhojpuri and Hindi despite the fact that there is a rising number of published documents written in English and Hindi.\n\nIn Mauritius, there is a specific tutorial system. Usually, children first go to primary school and it is compulsory. The latter consists of six years of study after which children should take and pass their “School Certificate” to have access to secondary school. Five years later, children are supposed to receive their “Cambridge Higher School Certificate” (HSC) and if they want to go on with their studies they then go to college where seven years of study are needed to obtain a master's degree.\n\nFrom their first year of primary school on, children learn both English and French which is compulsory. English and French are two compulsory languages which are taught up to the level of Cambridge School Certificate (SC). Since 1955, Chinese and Indian students attend classes dedicated to the learning of their culture and ancestral language so that they learn a third language in addition to the two other languages mentioned above. Meanwhile, Catholic Creoles go to their catechism class.\n\nChinese children don't learn, contrarily to what one could think, Hakka or Cantonese which are their mother tongue or at least the mother tongue of their ancestors but rather Mandarin which is the most spoken language in China. The knowledge of this language is a major asset since it is an international language pretty useful in international trading. (Cantonese is also pretty useful in international trade.)\n\nAs for the Indians, they have the opportunity to choose to learn one Indian language according to their origins. Most primarily school propose to teach Hindi, Tamil, Urdu, Telegu and Marathi. All these languages have a same Indian origin but are nevertheless very different from one another and some of them incidentally use different alphabet in their writing. For instance, Hindi uses the Devanagari alphabet whereas the writing of Urdu requests an Arab alphabet even though both languages are quite similar orally. They only acquired their respective particularities because of cultural and religious differences in which each of them was independently used. Indeed, Hindi is the language of Hindus whereas Urdu is the language of Muslims. The only Indian language not proposed in primary school is Bhojpuri. The reason for that is the fact that only few students are interested in learning it. Moreover, Bhojpuri is considered as a spoken language and is only used on paper in traditional and popular poetry because of its negative connotation compared to Hindu or Urdu which are a lot more prestigious. This prestige probably comes from the international status of these two languages, contrarily to Bhojpuri which is only used locally since Mauritian Bhojpuri is quite different from the one currently spoken in India. Effectively, Indians coming from Calcutta used different dialects which, as time went by, became unified to form Mauritian Bhojpuri. Considering this whole point, we can conclude that the Indians and the Chinese are then dedicated to becoming cosmopolitan beings.\n\nSince 1944, the language of education is officially English - at the expense of French – excepted in languages classes in which lessons are given in the language being learnt. Nevertheless, Creole is still used by some teachers as an understanding tool. The use of the Mauritians’ mother tongue allows the latter to diminish the number of potential confusions and misunderstandings of the material being taught. To make sure that everyone understand perfectly what a specific lesson deals with, many teachers answer to questions in Creole and repeat a same piece of information twice: once in English and once in Creole.\n\nMauritius, this island located in the Indian Ocean and eastward from Africa, is a multiethnic and multilingual country in which a great number of languages are known and spoken. The Mauritians are strongly interested in international languages in order to favour international trade and to crave out its niche in the world. It is incidentally one of the developing nation whose evolution is the most remarkable and impressive. Despite its desire of international interactions, Mauritius still remains strongly attached to its roots and wants to keep its cultural patrimony at all costs. The diversity of the island can however sometimes cause tensions and incomprehension between members of different communities but nonetheless it allows to international relations and contributes above all to the wealth and the maintaining of the Mauritian culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "2514686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514686", "title": "List of languages of Russia", "text": "List of languages of Russia\n\nThis is a list of languages used in Russia. Some of the languages have more speakers, and even official status, in other countries.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2558799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2558799", "title": "Lylab", "text": "Lylab\n"}
{"id": "470229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=470229", "title": "Maithili language", "text": "Maithili language\n\nMaithili (; \"Maithilī\") is an Indo-Aryan language native to the Indian subcontinent, mainly spoken in India and Nepal. In India, it is spoken in the states of Bihar and Jharkhand and is one of the 22 recognised Indian languages. In Nepal, it is spoken in the eastern Terai and is the second most prevalent language of Nepal. It is also one of the 122 recognized Nepalese languages. Tirhuta was formerly the primary script for written Maithili. Less commonly, it was also written in the local variant of Kaithi. Today it is written in the Devanagari script.\n\nIn 2003, Maithili was included in the Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution as a recognised Indian language, which allows it to be used in education, government, and other official contexts in India.\n\nThe Maithili language is included as an in the UPSC Exam.\n\nIn 2007, Maithili was included in the Interim Constitution of Nepal 2063, Part 1, Section 5 as a recognized Nepalese language.\n\nIn March 2018, Maithili received the second official language status in the Indian state of Jharkhand.\n\nIn India, Maithili is spoken mainly in Bihar and Jharkhand in the districts of \nDarbhanga, Samastipur, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi, Begusarai, Khagaria, Purnia, Katihar, Kishanganj, Sheohar, Bhagalpur, Madhepura, Araria, Supaul, Vaishali, Saharsa (Bihar), Ranchi, Bokaro, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Deoghar (Jharkhand). Madhubani and Darbhanga constitute cultural and linguistic centers. Native speakers also reside in Delhi, Kolkata, Patna, Mumbai, and Bengaluru.\n\nIn Nepal, Maithili is spoken mainly in the Outer Terai districts including Sarlahi, Mahottari, Dhanusa, Sunsari, Siraha, Morang and Saptari Districts. Janakpur is an important linguistic centre of Maithili.\n\nIn the 19th century, linguistic scholars considered Maithili as a dialect of Bihari languages and grouped it with other languages spoken in Bihar. Hoernlé compared it with Gaudian languages and recognized that it shows more similarities with Bengali languages than with Hindi. Grierson recognized it as a distinct language and published the first grammar in 1881.\n\nChatterji grouped Maithili with Magadhi Prakrit.\n\nMaithili varies greatly in dialects. The standard form of Maithili is Sotipura or Central Maithili or Madhubani dialect which is mainly spoken in Darbhanga and Madhubani districts in Bihar, India.\nSeveral other dialects of Maithili are spoken in India and Nepal, including Dehati, Kisan, Bantar, Barmeli, Musar, Tati, Kortha and Jolaha. All the dialects are intelligible to native Maithili speakers.\n\nMaithili dates back to the 14th century. The \"Varna Ratnākara\" is the earliest known prose text, preserved from 1507, and is written in Mithilaksar script.\n\nThe name Maithili is derived from the word Mithila, an ancient kingdom of which King Janaka was the ruler (see Ramayana). Maithili is also one of the names of Sita, the wife of King Rama and daughter of King Janaka. Scholars in Mithila used Sanskrit for their literary work and Maithili was the language of the common folk (Abahatta).\n\nWith the fall of Pala rule, disappearance of Buddhism, establishment of Karnāta kings and patronage of Maithili under Harasimhadeva (1226–1324) of Karnāta dynasty, Jyotirisvara Thakur (1280–1340) wrote a unique work \"Varnaratnākara\" in pure Maithili prose, the earliest specimen of prose available in any modern Indo-Aryan language.\n\nIn 1324, Ghyasuddin Tughluq, the emperor of Delhi invaded Mithila, defeated Harisimhadeva, entrusted Mithila to his family priest Kameshvar Jha, a Maithil Brahmin of the Oinwar dynasty. But the disturbed era did not produce any literature in Maithili until Vidyapati Thakur (1360 to 1450), who was an epoch-making poet under the patronage of king Shiva Singh and his queen Lakhima Devi. He produced over 1,000 immortal songs in Maithili on the theme of erotic sports of Radha and Krishna and the domestic life of Shiva and Parvati as well as on the subject of suffering of migrant labourers of Morang and their families; besides, he wrote a number of treaties in Sanskrit. His love-songs spread far and wide in no time and enchanted saints, poets and youth. Chaitanya Mahaprabhu saw the divine light of love behind these songs, and soon these songs became themes of Vaisnava sect of Bengal. Rabindranath Tagore, out of curiosity, imitated these songs under the pseudonym Bhanusimha. Vidyapati influenced the religious literature of Asama, Banga, and Utkala.\n\nThe earliest reference to Maithili or Tirhutiya is in Amaduzzi's preface to Beligatti's \"Alphabetum Brammhanicum\", published in 1771. This contains a list of Indian languages amongst which is 'Tourutiana.' Colebrooke's essay on the Sanskrit and Prakrit languages, written in 1801, was the first to describe Maithili as a distinct dialect.\n\nMany devotional songs were written by Vaisnava saints, including in the mid-17th century, Vidyapati and Govindadas. Mapati Upadhyaya wrote a drama titled \"Pārijātaharaṇa\" in Maithili. Professional troupes, mostly from dalit classes known as Kirtanias, the singers of bhajan or devotional songs, started to perform this drama in public gatherings and the courts of the nobles.\nLochana (c. 1575 – c. 1660) wrote \"Rāgatarangni\", a significant treatise on the science of music, describing the rāgas, tālas, and lyrics prevalent in Mithila.\n\nDuring the Malla dynasty's rule Maithili spread far and wide throughout Nepal from the 16th to the 17th century. During this period, at least seventy Maithili dramas were produced. In the drama \"Harishchandranrityam\" by Siddhinarayanadeva (1620–57), some characters speak pure colloquial Maithili, while others speak Bengali, Sanskrit or Prakrit. The Nepal tradition may be linked with the Ankiya Nāta in Assam and Jatra in Odisha.\n\nAfter the demise of Maheshwar Singh, the ruler of Darbhanga Raj, in 1860, the Raj was taken over by the British Government as regent. The Darbhanga Raj returned to his successor, Maharaj Lakshmishvar Singh, in 1898. The Zamindari Raj had a lackadaisical approach toward Maithili. The use of Maithili language was revived through personal efforts of MM Parameshvar Mishra, Chanda Jha, Munshi Raghunandan Das and others.\n\nPublication of \"Maithil Hita Sadhana\" (1905), \"Mithila Moda\" (1906), and \"Mithila Mihir\" (1908) further encouraged writers. The first social organization, Maithil Mahasabha, was established in 1910 for the development of Mithila and Maithili. It blocked its membership for people outside from the Maithil Brahmin and Karna Kayastha castes. Maithil Mahasabha campaigned for the official recognition of Maithili as a regional language. Calcutta University recognized Maithili in 1917, and other universities followed suit.\n\nBabu Bhola Lal Das wrote \"Maithili Grammar\" (\"Maithili Vyakaran\"). He edited a book \"Gadyakusumanjali\" and edited a journal \"Maithili\".\n\nIn 1965, Maithili was officially accepted by Sahitya Academy, an organization dedicated to the promotion of Indian literature.\n\nIn 2002, Maithili was recognized on the VIII schedule of the Indian Constitution as a major Indian language; Maithili is now one of the twenty two national languages of India.\n\nThe publishing of Maithili books in Mithilakshar script was started by Acharya Ramlochan Saran.\n\nMaithili was traditionally written in their own script which is known as Mithilakshar or Tirhuta. This script is similar to Bengali-Assamese script. Devanagari script is most commonly used since the 20th century.\n\nThe Tirhuta (Mithilakshar) and Kaithi scripts are both currently included in Unicode.\n\nThe Maithili calendar or Tirhuta Panchang is followed by the Maithili community of India and Nepal. It is one of the many Hindu calendars based on Vikram Samvat. It is a sidereal solar calendar in which the year begins on the first day of Baisakh month, i.e., Mesh Sankranti. This day falls on 13/14 April of the Georgian calendar. Pohela Baishakh in Bangladesh and in West Bengal, Rangali Bihu in Assam, Puthandu in Tamil Nadu, and Vaishakhi in Punjab are observed on the same day. These festivals mark the beginning of new year in their respective regions.\n\nSoftware available for working in the language is available from the government and from private vendors. Here is a list of links, with no order implied, to download software:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "711671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711671", "title": "Mammad Amin Rasulzadeh", "text": "Mammad Amin Rasulzadeh\n\nMuhammad Amin Rasulzadeh ( , ; 31 January 1884 – 6 March 1955) was an Azerbaijani statesman, scholar, public figure and the first and only president of the Democratic Republic of Azerbaijan (1918–1920). His expression \"Bir kərə yüksələn bayraq, bir daha enməz!\" (\"The flag once raised will never fall!\") became the motto of the independence movement in Azerbaijan in the 20th century.\n\nBorn at Novxanı, near Baku, Mammad Amin Rasulzadeh received his education at the Russian-Muslim Secondary School and then at the Technical College in Baku. In his years of study he created \"\"Muslim Youth Organisation Musavat\",\" first secret organisation in Azerbaijan's contemporary history, and beginning from 1903 Rasulzade began writing articles in various opposition newspapers and magazines. At that time, his anti-monarchist platform and his demands for the national autonomy of Azerbaijan, aligned him with Social Democrats and future Communists. In 1904 he founded the first Muslim social-democrat organisation \"Hummet\" and became editor-in-chief of its newspapers, \"Takamul\"(1906–1907) and \"Yoldash\"(1907). Rasulzade also published many articles in non-partisan newspapers such as \"\"Hayat\",\" \"Irshad\" and also \"Fuyuzat\" journal. His dramatic play entitled \"The Lights in the Darkness\" was staged in Baku in 1908.\n\nRasulzade and his co-workers were representatives of the Azerbaijani intelligentsia. Most of them, including Rasulzade himself, had been members of the Baku organization of the Russian Social-Democratic Workers' Party (Bolsheviks) in 1905. A photograph is extant in Soviet archives, showing Rasulzade with Prokopius Dzhaparidze and Meshadi Azizbekov, Bolsheviks who later became famous as two of the 26 Baku Commissars shot during the civil war. During the First Russian Revolution (1905–1907), Rasulzade actively participated in revolutionary developments. As the story goes, it was Rasulzade who saved young Joseph Stalin in 1905 in Baku, when police were searching for the latter as an active instigator of riots.\n\nIn 1909, under the persecution from Tsarist authorities, Rasulzade fled Baku to participate in the Iranian Constitutional Revolution of 1905-1911. While in Iran, Rasulzade edited \"Iran-e Azad\" newspaper, became one of the founders of Democrat Party of Persia and began publishing its newspaper \"Iran-e Now\" which means \"New Iran\" and which has been described as \"the greatest, most important and best known of the Persian newspapers, and the first to appear in the large size usual in Europe\". In 1911, Rasulzade also published his book \"Saadet-e bashar\" (\"Happiness of Mankind\") in defense of the revolution.\n\nAfter Russian troops entered Iran in 1911 and, in cooperation with British, assisted Qajar Court to put an end to Iranian Constitutional Revolution, Rasulzade fled to Istanbul, then capital of Ottoman Empire. Here, in the wake of Young Turk Revolution, Rasulzade founded a journal called \"Türk yurdu\" (\"The Land of Turks\"), in which he published his famous article \"İran Türkleri\" about the \"Iranian Turks\".\n\nAfter the Amnesty Act of 1913, dedicated to the 300th anniversary of the Romanov dynasty, Rasulzade returned to Baku, left the Hummet party he was previously member of, and joined the then secret Musavat (Equality) party in 1913, established in 1911, which initially promoted pan-Islamist, pan-Turkist and Socialist ideas, or more precisely Pan-Islamism yet with affinity for greater cultural bonds with the Turkic world, and which eventually became Azerbaijani nationalist party, and quickly became its chief. In 1915 he started to publish party's newspaper \"Açıq Söz\" (Open word) which lasted till 1918. When February Revolution happened, Musavat together with other secret political parties in Russian Empire quickly legalized and became a leading party of Caucasian Muslims after it merged with Party of Turkic Federalists headed by Nasib Yusifbeyli. October revolution in 1917 lead to secession of Transcaucasia from Russia and Rasulzade became head of Muslim faction in the Seym, parliament of Transcaucasian Federation. After the dissolution of the Transcaucasian Federation Muslim faction re-organized into Azerbaijani National Council, whose head Rasulzade was unanimously elected in May 1918.\n\nOn 28 May 1918 the Azerbaijani National Council, headed by Rasulzade, declared an independent Azerbaijan Republic. Rasulzade also initiated the establishment of Baku State University together with Rashid Khan Gaplanov, minister of education with the funding of oil baron Haji Zeynalabdin Taghiyev in 1919. Rasulzade taught Ottoman literature at the University.\nAfter the collapse of Azerbaijan Democratic Republic in April 1920, Rasulzade left Baku and went into hiding in the mountainous village of Lahij to direct the resistance to Sovietization, but in August 1920, after Soviet Russian army crushed the rebellions of Ganja, Karabakh, Zagatala and Lankaran, led by ex-officers of the Azerbaijani National Army, Rasulzade was arrested and brought to Baku. It was only due to his earlier rescue of Joseph Stalin in 1905, that Rasulzade was released and transferred from Azerbaijan to Russia. For the next two years, Rasulzade worked as the press representative at the Commissariat on Nations in Moscow. He was seconded to Saint Petersburg in 1922 from where he escaped to Finland.\n\nFor the rest of his life, Rasulzade lived in exile first in Turkey. However, the 1931 suppression of the emigre publications coincided with Rasulzade's expulsion from Turkey, and some saw it as the result of caving in to Soviet pressure. In exile Rasulzade published a pamphlet titled \"O Pantiurkizme v sviazi s kavkazskoi problemoi\" (\"О Пантюркизме в связи с кавказской проблемой\", Pan-Turkism with regard to the caucasian problem), in which he firmly stated his view: Pan-Turkism was a cultural movement rather than a political program. Thus, he went to Poland in 1938, where he met his wife, Vanda, niece of Polish statesman Józef Piłsudski, then to Romania in 1940. Finally, after World War II, he went back to Ankara, Turkey in 1947, where he participated in the politics of the marginal Pan Turkic movement. Due to sensitivity of his presence in either Turkey or Iran, and being often exiled, Rasulzade \"cherished bad memories of both Iran and Turkey\". In his appeal to Azerbaijani people in 1953 through Voice of America, he stressed his hope that one day it will become independent again. He died in 1955, a broken man according to Thomas Goltz, and was buried in Cebeci Asri cemetery in Ankara.\n\nRasulzade was commemorated by many memorials throughout Azerbaijan, such as Baku State University, which was named after his honor. Rasulzade was depicted on the obverse of the Azerbaijani 1000 manat banknote of 1993-2006.\n\nMehmet Emin Resulzade Anatolian High School, named after him, is a public high school at Ankara, Turkey.\n\nRasulzades works include:\n\n"}
{"id": "17894045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17894045", "title": "Mangbutu language", "text": "Mangbutu language\n\nMangbutu is a Central Sudanic language of northeastern Congo. It, or its speakers, are also known as \"Mangu-Ngutu, Mombuttu, Wambutu.\" The 1,200 Andinai are separated from other Mangbutu speakers by Lese; they speak a distinct dialect, as do the Andali tribe (Angwe dialect).\n"}
{"id": "1479202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1479202", "title": "Manik Bandopadhyay", "text": "Manik Bandopadhyay\n\nManik Bandopadhyay (; 19 May 1908 – 3 December 1956) was a Bengali writer and novelist, widely regarded as one of the major figures and influential writer of 20th century Bengali literature. During a lifespan of 48 years, plagued simultaneously by illness and financial crisis, he produced 36 novels and 177 short stories. His important works include \"Padma Nadir Majhi\" (The Boatman on The River Padma, 1936) and \"Putul Nacher Itikatha\" (The Puppet's Tale, 1936), \"Shahartali\" (Suburbia, 1941) and \"Chatushkone\" (The Quadrilateral, 1948).\n\nBandopadhyay was born on 19 May 1908 in Dumka, a small town in Santal Parganas district in the state of Bihar in British India. His real name was Prabodh Kumar Bandhopaddhay. Owing to his dark complexion, he was known to his family members as \"Kala Manik\" (black diamond), or simply Manik. He was the fifth of the fourteen children of his parents, Harihar Bandopadhyay and Niroda Devi. Harihar was a sub-registrar who was posted in different parts of Bengal. This gave Manik to experience life and living of people in different parts of Bengal in his early life.\n\nBandopadhyay passed the entrance examination from the Midnapore Collegiate School (then Governmental Zilla School) in 1926, securing first division with letter marks in compulsory and optional mathematics. In the same year, he got admitted in Wesleyan Missionary College at Bankura. Earlier he studied in Contai Model Institution in Contai. \n\nIn Wesleyan College, Bandopadhyay came in contact with professor Jackson. In 1928 he passed I.Sc. with first division. He got admitted to the B.Sc. course in mathematics at the Presidency College, Calcutta with the inspiration of his father.\n\nIn 1938, Bandopadhyay started his career as the Headmaster of Mymensingh Teachers Training School. But, throughout his life, writing was the only source of income for Manik Bandopadhyay and, hence, he languished perpetual poverty. However, for a short while he tried to enhance his earning through involvement with one or two literary magazines. He worked as editor of \"Nabarun\" for a few months in 1934. During 1937–38, he worked as assistant editor of literary magazine \"Bangasree\". He established a printing and publishing house in 1939 which turned out to be a short-lived endeavour. Also, he worked as publicity assistant for the government of India in 1943.\n\nOnce while he was with his friends in their college canteen, one of them asked him if he could publish a story in the magazine \"Bichitra\". The would-be novelist replied that his first story would be good enough for the purpose. At that time, \"Bichitra\" was a leading periodical which carried stories only by eminent authors. Manik walked into the office of the periodical and dropped the story \"Atashi Mami (Aunt Atashi)\" in their letter box. At the end of the story he signed off as \"Manik Bandhopadhay\". After four months, publication of the story (in 1928) created sensation in the literary circles of Bengal and, from then on, the pen name stuck.\n\nHis stories and novels were published in literary magazines of the then Bengal. They included \"Bichitra, Bangasree, Purbasha, AnandaBazaar Patrika, Jugantor, Satyajug, Probashi, Desh, Chaturanga, NoroNari, Notun Jiban, Bosumati, Golp-Bharati, Mouchak, Pathshala, Rang-Mashal, NoboShakti, Swadhinata, Agami, Kalantar, Parichaya, Notun Sahitya, Diganta, Sanskriti, Mukhopotro, Provati, Ononnya, Ultorath, Elomelo, Bharatbarsha, Modhyabitta, Sharodi, Sonar Bangla, Agami, Ononya, Krishak, Purnima, Rupantar\" and \"Swaraj\".\n\nBandopadhyay published 57 volumes. He also wrote poetry, but not much is heard about his poems.\n\nBandopadhyay's writing was inspired by both Marxian philosophy and Freudian philosophy - which are quite contrasting in nature.\nHis writing stands in stark contrast to that of other contemporary luminaries like Bibhutibhushan Bandopadhyay who portrayed life in rural Bengal in a gentle, lyrical light. Although he had some common grounds with Tarashankar Bandopadhyay, he distinguished himself with profound and rational analysis of the lives of ordinary people. Manik's writing dealt with the pettiness and wretchedness of existence in the context of rural Bengal. His primary concern was the dark alleyways of the human mind, even among the supposedly simple village folk, and not the serene beauty of nature that was always in the background in his novels. In \"Putulnacher Itikatha\" he took on rather savagely the hypocrisy in villages: An elderly couple are canonised as saints after committing morphine-induced suicide; the daughter of one of the village elders gets married off to a wealthy businessman in Kolkata who treats her as a concubine ... she gets hooked to alcohol and returns home a shadow of her former self. However, the people around her keep pretending that nothing untoward has happened. Numerous other examples abound.\n\nShortly after making his debut in the world of fiction in 1935 through a short story titled \"Atashi Mami\", Bandopadhay embarked upon writing novels. Publication of \"Diba-Ratrir Kabya\" in 1935 and \"Padma Nadir Majhi\" and \"Putul Nacher Itikotha\" in 1936 established him as the most notable novelist Bengali literature since Bankimchandra, Rabindranath and Saratchandra. He distinguished himself with focus on the life of ordinary rural and urban people, with colloquial language and with a neat narrative. He was a great storyteller who perfected his fiction with insight into human mind. In the earlier works he took a Freudian approach. In the later life, he showed influence of Marxist theory. His treatment of human sexuality in \"Chatushkone\" is path-breaking.\n\n\"Putul Nacher Itikatha\" is one of the most notable works of Bandopadhyay. In one of his letters, he wrote that this novel was a humble protest against those who tend to play with the lives of humans as if they were puppets. \n\nIt narrates the struggle of Shashi, the protagonist, and doctor, who relentlessly strives to uplift his village and free it from baseless superstitions surrounded by hollow Hindu rituals. In a rural backdrop, it depicts the lives of different individuals showing the variety of lives in Bengal. It deals with the hypocrisies, alcohol addiction and irresistible carnal impulses unveiling dark, nasty and pseudo-conservative shades of Bengali ethos. The intricate psyche of women along with ups and downs in relationships causing extreme consequences leading to extramarital affairs and subjection to savage instincts has been well narrated in this novel. Being a Marxist story-teller and deeply influenced by Sigmund Freud, Manik Bandopadhyay exceptionally shades light on the constant conflict between city against the village, man against destiny and trust against jealousy. It is a staunch protest filled with anecdotes of kindness and cruelty, love and hate, trust and betrayal, all of which strike at the root of the forced, shallow customs feeding on the Bengali society.\n\nIt was serialised in the \"Bharatbarsha\" from Poush 1341 to Agrahayana 1342. D. M. Library of Calcutta published it as a book in 1936. A film was produced based on this great novel in 1949. The film was directed by Asit Bandopadhyay under the banner of K. K. Productions.\n\nManik carefully read Marx and Engels and became a Marxist. He became an active politician of Marxism by joining the Communist Party of India in 1944.\n\nSince early life, Bandopadhyay had struggled with poverty and epilepsy. The signs of epilepsy first surfaced when he was engaged in writing \"Padma Nadir Majhi\" and \"Putul Nacher Itikatha\". Continued and unabated ailment, problems and crises devastated his mental disposition. Eventually he resorted to alcohol for respite, adding to his misery. On 3 December 1956, he collapsed and went into a coma. He was admitted to the Nilratan Government Hospital on 2 December where he died the next day. He was 48. His funeral took place at Nimtala crematorium in North Calcutta. A huge crowd attended the memorial meeting for Manik Bandopadhyay held on 7 December 1956. At that time he lived in Baranagar, now in North 24 Parganas. The rental residence was at Gopal Lal Tagore Road.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "765377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765377", "title": "Nominative absolute", "text": "Nominative absolute\n\nIn English grammar, a nominative absolute is a free-standing (absolute) part of a sentence that describes the main subject and verb. It is usually at the beginning or end of the sentence, although it can also appear in the middle. Its parallel is the ablative absolute in Latin, the genitive absolute in Greek, or the locative absolute in Sanskrit.\n\nOne way to identify a nominative absolute is to add a conjunction and a verb: one can often (though not always) create a subordinate clause out of a nominative absolute by adding a subordinating conjunction (such as \"because\" or \"after\") and a form of the verb \"to be\".\n\nIn each case, if a conjunction such as \"after\" or \"because\" were added before the nominative absolute as well as the verb \"was\", the absolute would become a subordinate clause.\n\nHowever, this is not possible with all nominative absolute constructions, as the following sentences demonstrate.\n\n"}
{"id": "9264951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9264951", "title": "Nzema language", "text": "Nzema language\n\nNzema (Nzima), also known as Appolo, is a Central Tano language spoken by the Nzema people of southwestern Ghana and southeast Ivory Coast. It shares 60% intelligibility with Jwira-Pepesa and is close to Baoule.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43825561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43825561", "title": "Painlevé conjecture", "text": "Painlevé conjecture\n\nThe conjecture has been proven for \"n\" ≥ 5 by Jeff Xia. The 4-particle case remains an open problem.\n\nSolutions formula_1 of the \"n\"-body problem formula_2 (where M are the masses and U denotes the gravitational potential) are said to have a singularity if there is a sequence of times formula_3 converging to a finite formula_4 where formula_5. That is, the forces and accelerations become infinite at some finite point in time.\n\nA \"collision singularity\" occurs if formula_6 tends to a definite limit when formula_7. If the limit does not exist the singularity is called a \"pseudocollision\" or \"noncollision\" singularity.\n\nPaul Painlevé showed that for \"n\" = 3 any solution with a finite time singularity experiences a collision singularity. However, he failed at extending this result beyond 3 bodies. His 1895 Stockholm lectures end with the conjecture that\n\nEdvard Hugo von Zeipel proved in 1908 that if there is a collision singularity, then formula_8 tends to a definite limit as formula_9, where formula_10 is the moment of inertia. This implies that a necessary condition for a noncollision singularity is that the velocity of at least one particle becomes unbounded (since the positions formula_11 remain finite up to this point).\n\nMather and McGehee managed to prove in 1975 that a noncollision singularity can occur in the co-linear 4-body problem (that is, with all bodies on a line), but only after an infinite number of (regularized) binary collisions.\n\nDonald G. Saari proved in 1977 that for almost all (in the sense of Lebesgue measure) initial conditions in the plane or space for 2, 3 and 4-body problems there are singularity-free solutions.\n\nIn 1984 Joe Gerver gave an argument for a noncollision singularity in the planar 5-body problem with no collisions. He later found a proof for the 3\"n\" body case.\n\nFinally, in his 1988 doctoral dissertation, Jeff Xia demonstrated a 5-body configuration that experiences a noncollision singularity.\n\nJoe Gerver has given a heuristic model for the existence of 4-body singularities but at present no formal proof exists.\n\nIn his 2013 doctoral thesis at University of Maryland, Jinxin Xue considered a simplified model for the planar four-body problem case of the Painlevé conjecture. Based on a model of Gerver, he proved that there is a Cantor set of initial conditions which lead to solutions of the Hamiltonian system whose velocities are accelerated to infinity within finite time avoiding all earlier collisions. \n"}
{"id": "594458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=594458", "title": "Precept", "text": "Precept\n\nA precept (from the , to teach) is a commandment, instruction, or order intended as an authoritative rule of action.\n\nIn religion, precepts are usually commands respecting moral conduct.\n\nThe term is encountered frequently in the Jewish and Christian Scriptures:\n\nThe usage of precepts in the Revised Standard Version of the Bible corresponds with that of the Hebrew Bible. The Septuagint (Samuel Rengster edition) has Greek \"entolas\", which, too, may be rendered with precepts.\n\nRoman Catholic Canon law, which is based on Roman Law, makes a distinction between \"precept\" and \"law\" in Canon 49:\n\nIn Catholicism, the \"Commandments of the Church\" may also be called \"Precepts of the Church\".\n\nIn Buddhism, the fundamental code of ethics is known as the Five Precepts (\"Pañcaśīla\" in Sanskrit, or \"Pañcasīla\" in Pāli), practiced by laypeople, either for a given period of time or for a lifetime. There are other levels of precepts, varying amongst traditions. In Theravadan tradition there are Eight Precepts, Ten Precepts, and the Patimokkha. Eight Precepts are a more rigorous practice for laypeople. Ten Precepts are the training rules for \"samaneras\" and \"samaneris\", novice monks and nuns, respectively. The Patimokkha is the basic Theravada code of monastic discipline, consisting of 227 rules for monks, (\"bhikkhus\") and 311 rules for nuns (\"bhikkhunis\").\n\nIn secular law, a precept is a command in writing; a species of writ issued from a court or other legal authority. It is now chiefly used of an order demanding payment (in the UK, for example, the term is applied by local precepting authorities as part of the Council Tax system). The Latin form \"praecipe\" (i.e., to enjoin, command) is used of the note of instructions delivered by a plaintiff or his lawyer to be filed by the officer of the court, giving the names of the plaintiff and defendant.\n\nThe family precepts (in Chinese: , Japanese: and Korean: ) are the rules and laws of a family, that are transmitted from one generation to the next.\n\nPrinceton University uses the term \"precept\" to describe what many other universities refer to as recitations: large classes are often divided into several smaller discussion sections called precepts, which are led by the professor or graduate teaching assistants. Precepts or recitations usually meet once a week to supplement the lectures and provide a venue for discussion of the course material.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17013397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17013397", "title": "Razaq Mamoon", "text": "Razaq Mamoon\n\nRazaq Mamoon (born December 27, 1964) is an ethnic Tajik author, political analyst and journalist in Afghanistan.\nHe is originally from the Panjshir province of Afghanistan. He is currently the author of his personal blog in which he analyses news and also has published more than 2000 political and non-political articles. He is known as one of the most famous authors in Afghanistan.\n\nRazaq Mamoon is one of Afghanistan's a prominent journalists and authors. He was the director of the \"Bust-i-Bastan News Agency\". He has worked in the past for BBC Persian Radio, and was the chief editor of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) in Kabul. Mamoon has also hosted a popular political television show at Tolo TV, where he interviewed famous personalities. His interviews were extremely controversial in nature and thus he was not liked by many of his guests. He was later removed from his post due to alleged government pressure on the Tolo TV station. At the moment he is busy on his own blog in the name of \"گزارش نامه افغانستان \" where he posts political analysis and news. He was also the chief editor of The Kabul Weekly (هفته نامه کابل) from 1991 till 1994. In 2006, he became the chief editor of the Payman Daily (روزنامه پیمان) in Kabul, Afghanistan until mid 2007.\n\nHe is the author of numerous books, novels and short stories in Dari (Persian), including The Time of Suicide (\"Asre Khod Koshi\"), The Household’s Memories (\"Khaterate sahb khana\"), The Afshin Drama (\"Namayesh-nama Afshin\"), The Abdul Khaliq Drama (\"Namayesh-nama Abdul Khaliq\"), The Right to Rule (\"Haqe Padshahy\"), The Handwriting of The Kabuli Man (\"Dast nawis haye mard Kabuli\"), The Political Notes (\"Yad dasht haye siasy\"), Masoud in Intelligence War (\"Masoud dar nabard estekhbarati\"), How was Ahmad Zahir Assassinated? (\"Ahmad Zahir chi guna terror shod?\"), The Earthquake Drama (\"Namayesh-nama Zelzela\"), The Incidents that Happened (\"Waqaye Etefaqia\"), The Armed Technocrats (\"Technocrat haye mosalah\"), The Secret Look (\"Negahe Makhfi\"), The Covered Secret: The Secrets About Dr. Najibullah’s Murder (\"Raz Khwabida: Asrar Marg Doctor Najibullah\"), The Covered Secret Second Edition: The Mystery Behind Farooq Yaqoubi’s Murder (\"Raz Khwabida Jold Dowom: Moamai Marg Farooq Yaqoubi\"), The Lost Game (\"Bazi Bakhta Shoda\"), Pharaoh’s Footprint: Iran’s Role In Ahmad Shah Massoud’s Assassination (\"Rad Paye Ferrawn: Naqsh Iran Dar Terror Ahmad Shah Massoud\") and The Kind Tigers (\"Babr Haye Mehraban\").\n\nHe is a fierce critic of the politics of Iran and Pakistan as well as certain Afghans who are pro-Iranians. In January 2011, Mamoon became the victim of an acid attack in which he accused Iran for being involved. He has recently written a new book \"Rad-i-Pai-Firaaon\" (\"Footprint of Pharaoh\"), about Iranian politics and their interfering role in Afghanistan. President Hamid Karzai strongly condemned the attack on Mamoon, ordering the perpetrators to be brought to justice. The attacker was arrested a few days later by the Afghan National Police at which point he confessed to committing the crime. During the confession, the accused criminal stated that several men with Iranian accent forced him to throw acid on Mamoon's face. He made his blog after his treatment was finished in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "22874857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22874857", "title": "Rutana (languages)", "text": "Rutana (languages)\n\nRutana is an Arabic term applied to any of Sudan's many non-Arabic vernacular languages and often taken to be pejorative.\n"}
{"id": "22353596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22353596", "title": "Sangamesh Saundattimath", "text": "Sangamesh Saundattimath\n\nDr.Sangamesh Saundattimath(born April 1, 1943) is a well known Kannada linguist. His main area of interest is Kannada Linguistics. His other areas of books include Kannada Research, Critics, Literature. His contribution to the Kannada Literature world is undisputed significant. He has so far published 78 books for his credit. More than 200 research articles have been published and 90 Research Papers have been presented at various seminars, workshops, Conferences etc. Number of his books have been prescribed as text-books for Post graduate and under graduate students of various Universities across the country.\n\nHe has served as a professor of Kannada at Karnatak University Dharwad, Gulbarga University for over 33 years and after retirement, he was selected as Emeritus Professor by U.G.C. He was holding number of Administrative Positions at the time of his service such as Dean Faculty of Arts, Chairman - Institute of Kannada studies (Gulbarga University), Student welfare Officer (Gulbarga University), Special Officer (P.G.Centre, Raichur) etc. He is also, currently working as a resource person in Central Institute of Indian Languages.\n\nAmong his special achievements, participation in the first International Seminar on Ramayana and Mahabharata held at Kaulalumpur and presented a paper on Kannada Ramayanas. He was pioneer to research study on Gulbarga and Bidar dialects and discovered two endangered Dravidian languages namely Elava and Koracha of Hyderabad-Karnataka area. He has been editing and publishing a bimonthly research periodical namely \"Samshodhana Vyasanga\" in Kannada since 1989. Discovered the folk poet of North Karnataka namely Durudundeesh who wrote Yakshaganas. Pioneer preparation of Descriptive Dictionary of Vachana Literature etc. are to be mentioned.\n\nFurthermore, he has been awarded number of awards such as Karnatak State Folklore Academy, Dr.Chidananda award, Dr.Shamba Joshi award, Dr.Seddiyapu Krishnabhat award, Dr.M.Vishveshvraiah award, Rajyostava award by Gulbarga University, Karnataka State award, and P.K.Bhagoji award for his contribution to Kannada Language and research.\n\nAll India Dravidian Linguists Association (DLA) has awarded Hermann Gundert award to Dr.Sangamesh Saundattimath's \"Varnatmaka Vachana Padakosha\" (A Concise Encyclopedic Dictionary of Vachana Literature). Award was conferred at the All India Dravidian Linguists Conference held recently at Thiruvananthapuram. \"Vachana Padakosha\" is first of its kind in Kannada, which comprises all the relevant information regarding Vachana literature.\n\nhttp://www.hindu.com/2010/10/31/stories/2010103161500400.htm\n"}
{"id": "29547984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29547984", "title": "Tehran Monolingual Corpus", "text": "Tehran Monolingual Corpus\n\nThe Tehran Monolingual Corpus (TMC) is a large-scale Persian monolingual corpus. TMC is suited for Language Modeling and relevant research areas in Natural Language Processing.\n\nThe corpus is extracted from Hamshahri Corpus and ISNA news agency website. The quality of Hamshahri corpus is improved for language modeling purpose by a series of tokenization and spell-checking steps.\n\nTMC comprises more than 250 million words. The total number of unique words (with frequency of two or more) of the corpus is about 300 thousand, which is relatively good for a highly-inflectional language like Persian.\n\nTMC is created by Natural Language Processing Lab of University of Tehran. The corpus is free for research use, after obtaining permission from the corpus aggregator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "201417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201417", "title": "Turkish alphabet", "text": "Turkish alphabet\n\nThe Turkish alphabet () is a Latin-script alphabet used for writing the Turkish language, consisting of 29 letters, seven of which (Ç, Ş, Ğ, I, İ, Ö, Ü) have been modified from their Latin originals for the phonetic requirements of the language. This alphabet represents modern Turkish pronunciation with a high degree of accuracy and specificity. It is the current official alphabet and the latest in a series of distinct alphabets used in different eras.\n\nThe letters of the Turkish alphabet are:\n\nOf these 29 letters, eight are vowels (A, E, I, İ, O, Ö, U, Ü); the other 21 are consonants.\n\nThe letters Q, W, and X of the ISO basic Latin alphabet do not occur in the Turkish alphabet (replacements for these letters are \"K\", \"V\" and \"KS\"), while dotted and dotless I are distinct letters in Turkish such that ⟨i⟩ becomes ⟨İ⟩ when capitalized, ⟨I⟩ being the capital form of ⟨ı⟩.\n\nTurkish also adds a circumflex over the back vowels ⟨â⟩ and ⟨û⟩ following ⟨k⟩, ⟨g⟩, or ⟨l⟩ when these consonants represent , , and (instead of , , and ):\n\nIn the case of length distinction, these letters are used for old Arabic and Persian borrowings from the Ottoman Turkish period, most of which have been eliminated from the language. Native Turkish words have no vowel length distinction, and for them the circumflex is used solely to indicate palatalization.\n\nThe names of the vowel letters are the vowels themselves, whereas the names of the consonant letters are the consonant plus \"e\".\n\nThe one exception is \"ğ\" (\"yumuşak ge\"; i.e. \"soft g\"), which cannot begin a word:\n\n\"a\", \"be\", \"ce\", \"çe\", \"de\", \"e\", \"fe\", \"ge\", \"yumuşak ge\", \"he\", \"ı\", \"i\", \"je\", \"ke\", \"le\", \"me\", \"ne\", \"o\", \"ö\", \"pe\", \"re\", \"se\", \"şe\", \"te\", \"u\", \"ü\", \"ve\", \"ye\", \"ze\"\n\nThe letters \"h\" and \"k\" are sometimes named \"ha\" and \"ka\" (as in German), especially in acronyms such as CHP, KKTC and TSK. However, the Turkish Language Association advises against this usage.\n\nTurkish orthography is highly regular and a word's pronunciation is usually identified by its spelling. The following table presents the Turkish letters, the sounds they correspond to in International Phonetic Alphabet and how these can be approximated more or less by an English speaker.\n\nThe earliest known Turkish alphabet is the Orkhon script, also known as the Old Turkic alphabet, the first surviving evidence of which dates from the 7th century. In general, Turkic languages have been written in a number of different alphabets including Uyghur, Cyrillic, Arabic, Greek, Latin, and some other Asiatic writing systems.\n\nTurkish was written using a Turkish form of the Arabic script for over 1,000 years. It was well suited to write Ottoman Turkish which incorporated a great deal of Arabic and Persian vocabulary. However, it was poorly suited to the Turkish part of the vocabulary. Whereas Arabic is rich in consonants but poor in vowels, Turkish is exactly the opposite. The script was thus inadequate at representing Turkish phonemes. Some could be expressed using four different Arabic signs; others could not be expressed at all. The introduction of the telegraph and printing press in the 19th century exposed further weaknesses in the Arabic script.\n\nThe Turkic Kipchak Cuman language was written in Latin alphabet like in the Codex Cumanicus.\n\nSome Turkish reformists promoted the adoption of the Latin script well before Atatürk's reforms. In 1862, during an earlier period of reform, the statesman Münuf Pasha advocated a reform of the alphabet. At the start of the 20th century similar proposals were made by several writers associated with the Young Turks movement, including Hüseyin Cahit, Abdullah Cevdet, and Celâl Nuri. The issue was raised again in 1923 during the first Economic Congress of the newly founded Turkish Republic, sparking a public debate that was to continue for several years. A move away from the Arabic script was strongly opposed by conservative and religious elements. It was argued that Romanization of the script would detach Turkey from the wider Islamic world, substituting a \"foreign\" (i.e. European) concept of national identity for the traditional sacred community. Others opposed Romanization on practical grounds; at that time there was no suitable adaptation of the Latin script that could be used for Turkish phonemes. Some suggested that a better alternative might be to modify the Arabic script to introduce extra characters to better represent Turkish vowels. In 1926, however, the Turkic republics of the Soviet Union adopted the Latin script, giving a major boost to reformers in Turkey.\n\nTurkish-speaking Armenians used the Mesrobian script to write Holy Bibles and other books in Turkish for centuries. Many Armenian linguists, including Agop Dilâçar comprised the linguistic team which invented the modern Turkish alphabet, using and modifying Latin script.\n\nThe current 29-letter Turkish alphabet was established as a personal initiative of the founder of the Turkish Republic, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. It was a key step in the cultural part of Atatürk's Reforms, introduced following his consolidation of power. Having established a one-party state ruled by his Republican People's Party, Atatürk was able to sweep aside the previous opposition to implementing radical reform of the alphabet. He announced his plans in July 1928 and established a Language Commission () consisting of the following members:\n\nThe commission was responsible for adapting the Latin script to meet the phonetic requirements of the Turkish language. The resulting Latin alphabet was designed to reflect the actual sounds of spoken Turkish, rather than simply transcribing the old Ottoman script into a new form.\nAtatürk himself was personally involved with the commission and proclaimed an \"alphabet mobilisation\" to publicise the changes. He toured the country explaining the new system of writing and encouraging the rapid adoption of the new alphabet. The Language Commission proposed a five-year transition period; Atatürk saw this as far too long and reduced it to three months. The change was formalized by the Turkish Republic's law number 1353, the \"Law on the Adoption and Implementation of the Turkish Alphabet\", passed on 1 November 1928. The law went into effect from 1 January 1929, making the use of the new alphabet compulsory in all public communications.\n\nIn the Sanjak of Alexandretta (today's province of Hatay), which was at that time under French control and would later join Turkey, the local Turkish-language newspapers adopted the Latin alphabet only in 1934.\n\nThe reforms were also backed up by the \"Law on Copyrights\", issued in 1934, encouraging and strengthening the private publishing sector. In 1939, the \"First Turkish Publications Congress\" was organized in Ankara for discussing issues such as copyright, printing, progress on improving the literacy rate and scientific publications, with the attendance of 186 deputies.\n\nAs cited by the reformers, the old Arabic script was much more difficult to learn than the new Latin alphabet. The literacy rate did indeed increase greatly after the alphabet reform, from around 10% to over 90% , but many other factors also contributed to this increase, such as the foundation of the Turkish Language Association in 1932, campaigns by the Ministry of Education, the opening of Public Education Centers throughout the country, and Atatürk's personal participation in literacy campaigns.\n\nAtatürk also commented on one occasion that the symbolic meaning of the reform was for the Turkish nation to \"show with its script and mentality that it is on the side of world civilization.\" The second president of Turkey, İsmet İnönü further elaborated the reason behind adopting a Latin alphabet:\n\"The alphabet reform cannot be attributed to ease of reading and writing. That was the motive of Enver Pasha. For us, the big impact and the benefit of alphabet reform was that it eased the way to cultural reform. We inevitably lost our connection with Arabic culture.\"\nThe Turkish writer Şerif Mardin has noted that \"Atatürk imposed the mandatory Latin alphabet in order to promote the national awareness of the Turks against a wider Muslim identity. It is also imperative to add that he hoped to relate Turkish nationalism to the modern civilization of Western Europe, which embraced the Latin alphabet.\" The explicitly nationalistic and ideological character of the alphabet reform showed in the booklets issued by the government to teach the population the new script. They included sample phrases aimed at discrediting the Ottoman government and instilling updated Turkish values, such as: \"Atatürk allied himself with the nation and drove the sultans out of the homeland\"; \"Taxes are spent for the common properties of the nation. Tax is a debt we need to pay\"; \"It is the duty of every Turk to defend the homeland against the enemies.\" The alphabet reform was promoted as redeeming the Turkish people from the neglect of the Ottoman rulers: \"Sultans did not think of the public, Ghazi commander [Atatürk] saved the nation from enemies and slavery. And now, he declared a campaign against ignorance [illiteracy]. He armed the nation with the new Turkish alphabet.\"\n\nThe historian Bernard Lewis has described the introduction of the new alphabet as \"not so much practical as pedagogical, as social and cultural – and Mustafa Kemal, in forcing his people to accept it, was slamming a door on the past as well as opening a door to the future\". It was accompanied by a systematic effort to rid the Turkish language of Arabic and Persian loanwords, often replacing them with revived early Turkic words. However, the same reform also rid the language of many Western loanwords, especially French, in favor of Turkic words, albeit to a lesser degree. Atatürk told his friend Falih Rıfkı Atay, who was on the government's Language Commission, that by carrying out the reform, \"we were going to cleanse the Turkish mind from its Arabic roots.\"\n\nYaşar Nabi, a leading journalist, argued in the 1960s that the alphabet reform had been vital in creating a new Western-oriented identity for Turkey. He noted that younger Turks, who had only been taught the Latin script, were at ease in understanding Western culture but were quite unable to engage with Middle Eastern culture. The new script was adopted very rapidly and soon gained widespread acceptance. Even so, older people continued to use the Turkish Arabic script in private correspondence, notes and diaries until well into the 1960s.\n\nDotted and dotless I are separate letters, each with its own uppercase and lowercase forms. The lowercase form of \"I\" is \"ı\", and the lowercase form of \"İ\" is \"i\". (In the original law establishing the alphabet, the dotted \"İ\" came before the undotted \"I\"; now their places are reversed [].) The letter \"J\", however, uses a tittle in the same way English does, with a dotted lowercase version, and a dotless uppercase version.\n\nOptional circumflex accents can be used with \"â\", \"î\" and \"û\" to disambiguate words with different meanings but otherwise the same spelling, or to indicate palatalization of a preceding consonant (for example, while means \"snow\", means \"profit\"), or long vowels in loanwords, particularly from Arabic. These are seen as variants of \"a\", \"i\", and \"u\" and are becoming quite rare in modern usage.\n\nIn software development, the Turkish alphabet is known for requiring special logic, particularly due to the varieties of i and their lowercase and uppercase versions. This has been called the Turkish-I problem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10212029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10212029", "title": "Veloor Krishnankutty", "text": "Veloor Krishnankutty\n\nVeloor Krishnankutty, or Veloor Krishnan Kutty (, 5 July 1936 – 22 August 2003), was a popular satirist from Kerala in southern India. He wrote more than 159 books in Malayalam. The essence of his works is severe social criticism mixed up with humour. He was born in Velur in the state's south-central district of Kottayam, son of N.N. Kunjunni and Parvathi Amma. He had completed his education at Kottayam M.D. Seminary and C.M.S. College.\n\nStarting his career as a journalist in \"Deepika\", he went on to become the Editor of \"Deepika\" weekly, also worked in \"Keraladhwani\" editorial board for eight years and wrote a column in Deepika as the pen name of \"Pathraparayanan\".\n\nHis books \"Panchavadi Palam\", \"Ambili Ammavan\" and \"Masappady Mathupillai\" were made into films.\n\nHis famous book \"Vela Manasilirikkatte\" won him the Kerala Sahitya Academy Award in 1974. Besides, he had won the E V Krishna Pillai memorial Janma Satabdi award and K Karunakaran memorial Seva Sangham award.\n\nAwards\n\n"}
{"id": "2139648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139648", "title": "Virgil Aldrich", "text": "Virgil Aldrich\n\nVirgil Charles Aldrich (13 September 1903 in Narsinghpur, India – 28 May 1998 in Salt Lake City, Utah), was an American philosopher of art, language, and religion.\n\nThe son of Floyd Clement Aldrich and his wife Ann Hanley, Virgil Aldrich earned his Bachelor of Arts degree at Ohio Wesleyan University in 1925. He studied at Oxford University in 1927 and then went on to earn a \"Diplôme d'Études Supérieures de Philosophie\" at the Sorbonne in 1928 before completing his Ph.D. at the University of California Berkeley in 1931. He married Louise Hafliger on 3 September 1927 and they had one son, David Virgil Aldrich.\n\nAldrich's first academic appointment was his appointment as an instructor in philosophy at Rice University in 1931 and Sterling Fellow at Yale University in 1931-32. Promoted to assistant professor, he remained at Rice until 1942, when he was appointed visiting professor at Columbia University from 1942 to 1946. Appointed professor of philosophy at Kenyon College in 1946, he remained there until 1965, serving as visiting professor at Brown University in 1962-63. In 1965, he became professor of philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he remained until his retirement in 1972. On his retirement, he moved to Salt Lake City, Utah, where he became an adjunct professor at the University of Utah.\n\nAldrich served as Director of the Kyoto American Studies Institute in Japan and for short periods was visiting professor at Harvard University, the University of Michigan, and the University of Texas. He served as trustee and president of the American Society of Aesthetics and president of American Philosophical Association.\n\nIn his article \"Some Meanings of Vague\", Aldrich puts forth a series of definitions of vague objects and sensum, and then argues that any empiricist must account for vague sensum every bit as much as clear sensum, without skirting the issue. He takes there to be many kinds of vagueness—importantly, there is vagueness of symbols and vagueness of senses. Here symbols are anything which is used to refer, including verbal words, signs, pictures, and more. Vagueness regarding symbols can be the same as the vagueness which regards the senses. There can, additionally, be vagueness of the practices surrounding the use of the symbol to refer. These, he suggests, should be avoided.\n\n\nBooks:\n11 December 2010\n\nContributions:\n\nFestschrift\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5859046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5859046", "title": "Western Pantar language", "text": "Western Pantar language\n\nWestern Pantar, also known by the name of one of its dialects, Lamma, is a Papuan language spoken in the western part of Pantar island in the Alor archipelago of Indonesia. Western Pantar is spoken widely in the region by about 10,000 speakers.\n\nThere are three primary dialects.\n\nDialect differences are primarily lexical:\n\nThe Western Pantar consonant inventory includes: voiced and voiceless stops /p t k ’/ and /b d g/; voiceless fricatives /s h/; nasals /n m ng/; trill /r/ and lateral /l/; and glides/w/ and /y/.\nThe glottal fricative /h/ is very lightly articulated. It occurs in both word-initial and word-medial positions. Words which begin with a glottal fricative can be difficult to distinguish from vowel-initial forms, which actually begin with a glottal stop.\n\nConsonants contrast in length with longer (geminate) counterparts (written double).\n\n\nWestern Pantar and the other non-Austronesian languages of Alor and Pantar comprise the Alor–Pantar language family. This family is often itself included within the Timor–Alor–Pantar family, a larger grouping which includes some (though perhaps not all) of the non-Austronesian languages of Timor Island.\n\nThe TAP group is clearly Papuan (i.e., non-Austronesian), but just how it is related to the 20 or so families which fall under the rubric \"Papuan\" is unclear. Located some 1000 km from their nearest Papuan neighbor on the New Guinea mainland, the TAP family is the most distant Papuan outlier. In contrast, the other well-known outlier, the North Halmaheran subgroup of the West Papuan family, lies a mere 300 km from its nearest Papuan neighbor, and its genetic affiliation is well established.\n\nBased on an examination of possessive prefixes, Capell (1944) originally postulated that the TAP languages were related to the West Papuan languages of North Maluku and the Bird's Head of New Guinea. This hypothesis was later countered by Wurm et al. (1975), who classified the languages as members of the Trans–New Guinea family. However, the authors offered little evidence for this classification and remained somewhat doubtful, noting, \"whichever way they [the Timor–Alor–Pantar languages] are classified, they contain strong substratum elements of the other [families] involved\" (Wurm et al. 1975:318). Indeed, substratum may play an important role in understanding the history of TAP languages. Ross (2005) assigns TAP to his West Trans–New Guinea linkage, a subgroup of Trans–New Guinea. The evidence for this relies entirely on pronominal shapes, and yet there is significant variation in pronoun shapes in this linkage. TAP languages share some innovations/retentions with some members of the linkage, and other innovations/retentions with yet other different members of the linkage. For example, TAP languages retain *na as a reflex of pTNG first person singular *na, whereas several other members of the linkage show metathesis here. This kind of variation is to be expected, since by a \"linkage\" Ross means a dialect chain which has diversified in situ via overlapping innovations. More problematic is the correspondence of second and third person pronouns, an issue which is not addressed by Ross. TAP languages show a reversal of pTNG second and third pronouns, as can be seen comparing Ross's pTNG reconstructions with Nedebang pronouns.\n\nWestern Pantar pronouns can only be derived from pTNG by a flip-flop in which second person pronouns trade places with third person, a typologically unusual situation. Recent work by Donohue & Schapper (2007) suggests that both Capell and Wurm may be right and that TAP may involve an overlay of both Trans–New Guinea and West Papuan elements. Clearly, much more work is needed in order to unravel the complex linguistic pre-history of the TAP languages. One of the main stumbling blocks to further progress is the lack of adequate primary data from the individual languages in the Trans-New Guinea group, especially the languages of the Bomberai Peninsula.\n\n\n"}
