{"id": "9933739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9933739", "title": "A Nation Deceived", "text": "A Nation Deceived\n\nA Nation Deceived: How Schools Hold Back America's Brightest Students is \"The Templeton National Report on Acceleration\", a report which was published in 2004 and edited by Nicholas Colangelo, Susan G. Assouline, and Miraca Gross. This report argues for the academic acceleration of qualified gifted and talented students, based on the results of studies on outcomes of accelerating and not accelerating high-achieving students. Despite the evidence that acceleration is a beneficial practice when implemented correctly, many teachers and parents are reluctant to accelerate students. The report presents the research on acceleration in an effort to increase the number of students who have access to acceleration. \nThe report is divided into two parts: Volume I, which summarizes the research and provides an introduction to acceleration as an academic intervention for gifted students; and Volume II, an edited volume that provides a more detailed overview of relevant research studies.\n\nThe success of \"A Nation Deceived\" led to the creation of the \"Acceleration Institute\" (formerly the Institute for Research and Policy on Acceleration), which is dedicated to the study and support of educational acceleration for academically talented students.\n\n\"A Nation Empowered\", a follow-up to \"A Nation Deceived\", was published in 2015. It expands upon findings of the original report and incorporates research that has emerged since publication of \"A Nation Deceived\". \n\nThe first three of its \"20 Most Important Points from Volume II\" are:\n\n\nAmong other points, the report also indicates that:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2421203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2421203", "title": "Academic conference", "text": "Academic conference\n\nAn academic conference or symposium is a conference for researchers (not necessarily academics) to present and discuss their work. Together with academic or scientific journals, conferences provide an important channel for exchange of information between researchers.\n\nConferences are usually composed of various presentations. They tend to be short and concise, with a time span of about 10 to 30 minutes; presentations are usually followed by a discussion. The work may be bundled in written form as academic papers and published as the conference proceedings.\n\nUsually a conference will include keynote speakers (often, scholars of some standing, but sometimes individuals from outside academia). The keynote lecture is often longer, lasting sometimes up to an hour and a half, particularly if there are several keynote speakers on a panel.\nIn addition to presentations, conferences also feature panel discussions, round tables on various issues, poster sessions and workshops. Some conferences take more interactive formats, such as the participant driven \"unconference\" or various conversational formats.\n\nProspective presenters are usually asked to submit a short abstract of their presentation, which will be reviewed before the presentation is accepted for the meeting. Some disciplines require presenters to submit a paper of about 6–15 pages, which is peer reviewed by members of the program committee or referees chosen by them.\n\nIn some disciplines, such as English and other languages, it is common for presenters to read from a prepared script. In other disciplines such as the sciences, presenters usually base their talk around a visual presentation that displays key figures and research results.\n\nA large meeting will usually be called a conference, while a smaller is termed a workshop. They might be \"single track\" or \"multiple track\", where the former has only one session at a time, while a multiple track meeting has several parallel sessions with speakers in separate rooms speaking at the same time.\n\nThe larger the conference, the more likely it is that academic publishing houses may set up displays. Large conferences also may have a career and job search and interview activities.\n\nAt some conferences, social or entertainment activities such as tours and receptions can be part of the program. Business meetings for learned societies or interest groups can also be part of the conference activities.\n\nAcademic conferences typically fall into three categories:\n\nIncreasing numbers of amplified conferences are being provided which exploit the potential of WiFi networks and mobile devices in order to enable remote participants to contribute to discussions and listen to ideas.\n\nAdvanced technology for meeting with any yet unknown person in a conference is performed by active RFID that may indicate wilfully identified and relatively located upon approach via electronic tags.\n\nConferences are usually organized either by a scientific society or by a group of researchers with a common interest. Larger meetings may be handled on behalf of the scientific society by a Professional Conference Organiser or PCO.\n\nThe meeting is announced by way of a Call For Papers (CFP) or a Call For Abstracts, which is sent to prospective presenters and explains how to submit their abstracts or papers. It describes the broad theme and lists the meeting's topics and formalities such as what kind of abstract (summary) or paper has to be submitted, to whom, and by what deadline. A CFP is usually distributed using a mailing list or on specialized online services. Contributions are usually submitted using an online abstract or paper management service.\n\nIncreasingly, there has been a call for more sustainable academic conferencing, as flying to and consumption at conferences is one of the largest components of an academics environmental footprint. However, few conferences have enacted practices to reduce their environmental impact, despite guidelines being widely available. An analysis of academic conferences taking place in 2016, showed that only 4% of 116 conferences sampled offered carbon offset options and only 9% of these conferences implemented any form of action to their reduce environmental impact.\n\nThere have been accusations for fake, scam, or fraudulent conferences; see also BIT Life Sciences and SCIgen § In conferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "17757076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17757076", "title": "Academic grading in Serbia", "text": "Academic grading in Serbia\n\nSerbia inherited the academic grading system of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The grading process uses an absolute achievement scale to determine the grade of a student.\n\nIn elementary schools and secondary schools, a five-point grading scale is used:\n\n\nIn addition, descriptive grades are used to grade a student's conduct and religious or civic education. Religious or civic education grades are not counted in the arithmetic mean. In elementary schools conduct grades also are not counted in the arithmetic meanwhile in secondary schools they are.\n\nThe student's marks in each subject are averaged at the end of every semester and final grades are determined by the following ranges:\n\nAt the end of the school year, final grades for each subject are calculated from those given at the end of each semester. The student's overall achievement is assessed by averaging his grades in all subjects and then applying the above ranges.\n\nAt universities, a six-point grading scale is used:\n\nRequirements for \"a minimum achieved percentage at all stages of exam taking (written, practical, oral) in order to achieve corresponding grade\" is regulated by the statute of each individual institution, but general rules apply:\nA student's average for all subjects is calculated to two decimal places (e.g. 9.54).\n\nIn practice, the mark of 10 is seldom given as it implies the perfection which hardly ever characterizes a student's or indeed a lecturer's work. Even 9's are fairly rare. Therefore, an overall grade of 8 is considered a very good pass in any subject. This is especially true in schools of mathematics, science and engineering.\n\nFor interim grading, before final marks are given, professors may use credit, percentage, or decimal systems (on a scale of 0-100 credits, 0-100 points, 0-100%, or 1.0-10.0).\nA mark of 5.5 usually counts as a narrow pass, whereas 5.4 and below constitutes a failure. If no decimal places are used, 6 and up is a pass, and 5 and below a fail.\nSometimes when no decimals are used, the additional grade of 6– is used to indicate that the student \"barely passed\". Failing marks can sometimes be offset by high passes provided the average mark is passing (e.g., a 4 and a 9 would average to 6.5, which is passing). Compensation of marks is usually not allowed in the course specifications, but a lower limit for a compensable grade may be set (marks lower than 4 may not be offset, so a 4 and an 8 ((4+8)/2 = 6) would be passing, while a 3 and a 9, though also averaging to 6, would not be passing.\n\nDepending on the grade, universities can grant some honors (although this system is very limited compared to some other countries). A general heuristic (although this differs between institutions) is that a study average at least grade 9.5, final thesis graded 10, not a single grade below 8 and completing the curriculum without delays will lead to (in Serbian) \"izvanredan\", meaning \"cum laude\", extraordinary. For an average better than 9.0, but not meeting the criteria for cum laude, \"odličan\" (excellent) is awarded, and for an average better than 8.0, but not meeting the criteria for excellent - \"vrlo dobar\" (very good) is awarded.\n\nConverting the numbers of the Serbian grading system into the letters of systems such as those used in the United States and Great Britain, is difficult. It can really only be done if one can compare the frequency distribution of grades in the two systems.\n\nThe grades 9 and 10 are hardly ever given on examinations (on average, a 9 is awarded in less than 2%, and a 10 in less than 0.4% of cases). This is because the mark 10 implies perfection (i.e. a 96-100% score on all questions, extraordinary level) and a mark 9 an excellent level, which could be translated as a level close to that of the professor.\n\nAs the incidence of a 9 or 10 in Serbian university examinations are considerably lower than that of the top marks in the American or British grading system, it would be a mistake to equate a 10 to an A, a 9 to a B, and so forth. If the 8, 9 and 10 are taken together, as in the table above, they represent up to 15% of examination results. If, in a grading system based on letters, the A represents the top 10% or thereabouts, the grades 8 and above should be represented by A and A- grades.\n\nIt should be borne in mind though, that Serbian secondary education is similar to Russian and partially to German; therefore the pre-university secondary education is at much higher level than in many other Western countries. Proof of this claim can be found in the fact that Mathematical Gymnasium from Belgrade won only in last 3 years around 60 medals from international competitions, including gold medal from 2008. Russian Olympiad in Mathematics, gold and silver medals from International Olympiads in Mathematics, International Olympiads in Physics and International Olympiads in Informatics, and around 400 in previous 30 years, thus becoming unique in the world. This becomes relevant in comparing quality of students attaining various grades with other systems where more/less candidates are assessed at the level concerned and candidates with less knowledge. Moreover, the equivalence of university preparatory education the world over should not be assumed, the US high-school being considered inadequate for admission to Serbian universities.\n\nEvery foreign diploma held by Serbian nationals should undertake process of recognition or equivalence of foreign diploma (e.g. BA, BSc, etc.) or honorary title (e.g. PhD, PhEng, etc.).\nNot surprisingly, Serbian graduates from US universities (even from the best ones) are not given equivalence automatically, but rather are put in 3rd, 4th or 5th years of diploma studies. Recent examples include graduates from University of California at Berkeley and MIT who were given 8 differential subjects to study at the Faculty of Mathematics, and too many subjects to even get enrolled to final year at the Faculty of Physics so the graduate was enrolled in 3rd year of undergraduate studies of General (not even Theoretical, Experimental, or Applied) physics. Such decisions are to be made by the commissions of faculties in question, and approved or disapproved by the Professors Assembly and, after that, by the dean.\nRecent example also includes Serbian Minister of Foreign Affairs, mr Vuk Jeremić, whose Bachelor of Science in Theoretical Physics from the prestigious University of Cambridge could not be recognized as equivalent to \"diploma\" by the \"Faculty of Physics\", University of Belgrade, and it took Mr Jeremic more than 8 (eight) years to have his diploma finally recognized in September 2005.\n\nA mark 7 is a good grade, implying the student has good command of the subject matter, but not exceptionally good. Mark 6 implies the student has satisfactory command of the subject matter. Marks 7- and 6+ are a fairly frequent marks \"in internal use\" (before the final mark is given, which can be either 7, or 6). As such it relates to the mark B in many other systems, 7- and 7 more likely B+ under systems with a very broad B category.\n\nThe conversion of the lowest passing grade may present another problem. A grade of 40% is a clear fail (although an \"internal\" mark 4 may be sometimes compensated by high grades obtained in all other tests and colloquia of the same subject). A mark 5, on the other hand, is 'almost satisfactory'. For purposes of assessing student's progress throughout the year, \"mark 5\" is an usuful mark and may lead to a pass, provided the student improves in the next tests and retakes the test(s) he/she failed (if the test can be organized again during the same school year). For final exams, a 5 is unacceptable as an average. A mark 5 is slightly below that of the D in many systems: student in some cases may pass certain exam with an average mark between 5 and 6 if one of the higher marks from the same subject is \"extraordinary\" (10) or \"excellent\" (9).\n"}
{"id": "56882690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56882690", "title": "AgentCubes", "text": "AgentCubes\n\nAgentCubes is an educational programming language for kids to create 3D and 2D online games and simulations. The main application of AgentCubes is as computational thinking tool teaching kids computational thinking through game and simulation design based on the Scalable Game Design curriculum. \n\nSimilar to a spreadsheet, an agentcube is a grid-based organization. An agentcube is a four dimensional organization consisting of rows, columns, layers cubes containing stacks of programmable agents. This grid-based organization is useful to create a wide array of applications ranging from 1980-style arcade games such as Pac-Man, over 3D games to simple agent-based model. Agents can be given user created 3D shapes, they can compute formulae, move in the grid, change appearance, play sounds, animate themselves, and send messages to each other. \n\nAgentCubes was developed with support by the National Science Foundation. Research explored if K-12 students could pick up computation thinking patterns designing games and, if later, these students could leverage these computational thinking patterns to transfer skills to make STEM simulations. \n\nAgentCubes is inspired by AgentSheets which introduced modern drag and drop blocks programming in 1995. Most notably, AgentCubes transitioned from 2D to 3D design including highly accessible 3D modelling technology called Inflatable Icons. Historically, both AgentSheets and AgentCubes are rooted in an early prototype of parallel programming for kids running on a Connection Machine 2, a massively parallel supercomputer. The notion of massively parallel computing carried over to AgentCubes but leaving out the need for supercomputing hardware. \n\nAgentCubes Online has been used in large National Science Foundation teacher professional development scale up projects nationally in the USA and through the support of private foundation in countries such as Mexico, and Switzerland. In 2017 1 million projects were created. AgentCubes online is now available in English, Spanish, German, Italian and French. There are free and commercial versions of AgentCubes available. In Switzerland AgentCubes is free.\n\nWith the goal to shape \"computational thinkers\" and not necessarily \"programmers\" AgentCubes, and AgentSheets before it, have the goal to be computational thinking tools and not programming tools. Computational thinking tools make Computer Science education practical in K-12 by combining Programming Support Tools with Creativity Support Tools:\n\nProgramming in AgentCubes is based on a IF/THEN parallel conditional rule formalism. Lists of conditions and actions can be assembled into rules. Rules, can be wrapped up as methods with names which can be invoked by other rules. In the spirit of computational thinking tools it is typically possible to implement games and simulations with a small number of rules. For instance, a complete Pac-Man-like game including sophisticated AI allowing the ghost to collaboratively track down pac-man can be written in just 10 rule. Similar rule-based tools are ToonTalk, or Microsoft’s Kodu.\n"}
{"id": "36952790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36952790", "title": "Aleppo College", "text": "Aleppo College\n\nAleppo College (; also called Aleppo American College) Aleppo College was a Junior College it awarded High School Degrees at the Tenth Grade»> and up to 1964 «< it awarded and Freshman and Sophomore classes in; Arts Engineering and Medicine at the 11th and 12th Grades. It is based in the Syrian city of Aleppo since 1923. The roots of the college are traced back to the Central Turkey College of Aintab founded between 1874-1876 by the American Board of Commissioners and Foreign Missions in the Ottoman Empire to serve the large number of Christian Armenian population in the region.\n\nThe students of the Aintab College were largely Armenians -mainly Protestant Armenians-, but non-Armenians also attended. As a result of the massacres of the Armenians during the 1915 Armenian Genocide, the college was transferred to the Syrian city of Aleppo, through the efforts of its director John E. Merrill (1898–1937), where it became to be known as Aleppo College or the Aleppo American College and functioned as a high school.\n\nBy 1930, with the efforts of the American benefactor James Lack, a large piece of land of 13 hectares was donated to erect the new buildings of the school in the south-western suburbs of Aleppo. However, the construction process was launched in 1936 and completed in 1939. Due to the circumstances of the World War II, the construction of the second building (Girls High school)named American High School for Girls started only in 1950 and completed in 1952.\n\nIn its life of more than 150 years the college has helped prepare thousands of young men and women for service to society. In the secular field its graduates have distinguished themselves as teachers, school administrators, nurses, physicians, surgeons, pharmacists, dentists, writers, merchants, engineers, government officials and a cross-section of the occupations of its alumni.\n\nMany famous natives of Aleppo were among the alumni of Aleppo College: \n"}
{"id": "8834393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8834393", "title": "Alfred Mathieu Giard", "text": "Alfred Mathieu Giard\n\nAlfred Mathieu Giard (8 August 1846 – 8 August 1908) was a French zoologist born in Valenciennes.\n\nIn 1867 he began his studies of natural sciences at the École Normale Supérieure, followed by work as \"préparateur de zoologie\" at the laboratory of Henri de Lacaze-Duthiers (1821–1901) in Paris. In 1872 he defended his doctoral thesis with a study on compound ascidians titled \"Recherches sur les ascidies composées ou synascidies\". From 1873 to 1882, he was \"professeur suppléant\" of natural history at the faculty of sciences in Lille, and in the meantime, was also affiliated with the Institut industriel du Nord. In 1874 he founded a biological station at Wimereux in order to familiarize his students to marine and terrestrial organisms. At Lille, he is credited for putting together an excellent school of zoology.\n\nIn 1887 he became a lecturer at the École Normale Supérieure, and from 1888 until his death, he was a professor at the faculty of sciences in Paris, holding the chair of \"evolution of living organisms\". Following his death, he was succeeded at the Wimereux station by Maurice Caullery (1868–1958). Among his numerous students and assistants was philosopher of science Félix Le Dantec (1869-1917). Giard was influenced by the work of Ernst Haeckel, and considered Lamarckism and Darwinism to be complementary theories.\n\nFrom 1904 to 1908 he was president of the Société de biologie. He died on his birthday on August 8, 1908 in Orsay.\n\nHe was especially interested in the relationship between host and parasite in nature (both plants and animals), and used the term \"parasitic castration\" to define sexual characteristic changes in the host as a result of the parasite, even when the sex glands of the host are not directly involved. He is credited for providing a description of \"Giardia lamblia\", a gastrointestinal protozoan parasite that is named after himself and Czech physician Vilem Dusan Lambl (1824–1895). The illness associated with the parasite is sometimes called giardiasis. In 1877 he was the first scientist to describe the phylum Orthonectida (parasites of Ophiurida).\n\nIn 1894 he introduced the term \"anhydrobiosis\" (the ability of organisms to survive extreme dehydration). In 1905 Giard coined the word \"poecilogonie\" (poecilogony) to describe a phenomenon in which similar adults develop from dissimilar larvae in marine invertebrates.\n\nHe is remembered for his extensive research of crustaceans, particularly Epicaridea (parasitic isopods) and members of the family Bopyridae. Amongst his very numerous publications are 300 devoted to entomology. He was a figure of importance in applied entomology in France and a member of the Société entomologique de France.\n\n"}
{"id": "11995381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11995381", "title": "American College Personnel Association", "text": "American College Personnel Association\n\nAmerican College Personnel Association - College Student Educators International is a major student affairs association headquartered in Washington, D.C. at the National Center for Higher Education.\n\nFounded in 1924 by May L. Cheney, ACPA has 7,500 members representing 1,200 private and public institutions from across the U.S. and around the world. Members include organizations and companies that are engaged in the campus marketplace. Members also include graduate and undergraduate students enrolled in student affairs/higher education administration programs, faculty, and student affairs professionals, from entry level to senior student affairs officers.\n\nNearly 50% of ACPA's members attend the convention. Highlights of the convention include pre-convention workshops, over 300 educational sessions, interviewing at the , volunteering and networking opportunities. During the convention, job applicants and employers participate in one of the largest and most comprehensive placement service in student affairs. The 2013 convention will be in Las Vegas (2013), chaired by Karen Warren-Coleman (University of Chicago).\n\nThe 2012 Louisville Convention was chaired by Steve Sutton (University of California at Berkeley). Past convention chairs include Patricia Perillo (Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University) for 2011, Robin Diana (Hartwick College) for 2010, Jonathan Poullard (University of California at Berkeley) for 2009, and Sue Saunders (University of Connecticut) for 2008.\n\n1924 - May L. Cheney, who organized a teacher placement office at the University of California, Berkeley helped form the National Association of Appointment Secretaries (NAAS). In 1924, NAAS met for the first time and came as guests of the National Association of Deans of Women (NADW) to a convention sponsored by the Department Superintendence of the National Education Association.\n\n1929 - Forty-six NAAS members registered for the Sixth Annual Convention. NAAS became the National Association of Personnel and Placement Officers (NAPPO).\n\n1930s - The name American College Personnel Association (ACPA) was adopted in 1931. Association communication consisted of one mailed newsletter, the Personnel-O-Gram (P-O-G). In 1937, the Student Point of View statement was developed by leaders of the American Council on Education (ACE) and ACPA.\n\n1940s - The Journal for Educational and Psychological Measurement (EPM) became the next form of the association's newsletter communication in 1943. In 1947, ACPA's President Daniel D. Feder's recommendation for formal unification efforts led to the formation of the American Personnel and Guidance Association (APGA). No conferences were held from 1943 through 1945 during World War Two.\n\n1950s - The Personnel and Guidance Journal replaced EPM as ACPA's official journal in 1952. ACPA members approved the plan to form APGA. Membership reached 1,000 in 1952 and continued to increase through the next two decades. In 1959, Charles Lewis, the P-O-G associate editor was named the first editor of the Journal of College Student Personnel, ACPA's new official journal.\n\n1970s - ACPA collaborated with other national organizations on many national conventions. In 1973, ACPA and NAWDC (formerly NADW) coordinated a national convention. The Standing Committee for Women was established in 1973. In 1974, NAWDAC (name change for NAWDC), NASPA and ACPA coordinated a national convention. In 1976, membership totaled 9,384 at a record high. The Standing Committee for Multicultural Affairs was founded in 1978. In 1979, ACPA became one of the first members of the Council for the Advancement of Standards in Higher Education (CAS).\n\n1980s - ACPA flourished under the presidential leadership of outstanding student affairs practitioners and faculty members such as Susan Komives, Margaret \"Peggy\" Barr and Dennis Roberts. In 1983, ACPA was incorporated under the District of Columbia Non-Profit Act. In 1987, ACPA and NASPA held a joint meeting in Chicago to celebrate the 50th Anniversary of The Student Personnel Point of View statement. In 1988, ACPA's premier journal was renamed THE JOURNAL COLLEGE STUDENT DEVELOPMENT (JCSD).\n\n1990s - In 1991, after 40 years, ACPA leaders and members voted to disaffiliate from APGA, which was known as the American Association for Counseling and Development (AACD), and was later renamed the American Counseling Association (ACA). In September 1992, the separation became effective, and ACPA moved into a new office space at the National Center for Higher Education in Washington, D.C. Presidents Leila V. Moore (1991–92), Terry E. Williams (1992–93), Charles C. Schroeder (1986–87), Barbara Anderson (1994–95) and Harold E. Cheatham (1995–96) were all involved in this tremendous undertaking.\n\nEarly 2000 - In 2003, Carmen Neuberger retired as Executive Director. Gregory Roberts, ACPA President from 1999–2000, was selected as the new Executive Director.\n\n2010 - The ACPA/NASPA Professional Competency Areas document was published by the Joint Task Force on Professional Competencies and Standards.\n\n2011 - After more than two years of work by the Consolidation Steering Team from ACPA and NASPA leaders, a voting process took place in March. Eighty-percent of ACPA members voted affirmed consolidation while eligible NASPA members who voted fell short of the required 2/3 majority. In the July/August 2011 issue of the Journal of Higher Education, ACPA's premier publication, THE JOURNAL OF COLLEGE STUDENT DEVELOPMENT (JCSD) is ranked fourth among 50 Tier One journals in higher education. In a study by Nathaniel Bray and Claire Major, 106 out of 144 respondents reported that they read JCSD, and more than half of them cited JCSD in their work. This report continues JCSD's streak as the highest ranked journal in student affairs.\n\n2012 - ACPA appointed the Credentialing Implementation Team, launched the Institutional Councils Program and published its on-going Global Initiatives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31894512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31894512", "title": "Assistive Technology Acts", "text": "Assistive Technology Acts\n\nAssistive Technology Acts provide federal funding from the U.S. Department of Education to each state and territory to support \"State efforts to improve the provision of assistive technology to individuals with disabilities of all ages through comprehensive statewide programs of technology-related assistance.\" \n\nCurrently, there are 56 State AT programs. For the approximately 50,000,000 individuals with disabilities in the United States, these programs are available to provide them with assistance in selecting and acquiring \"assistive technology\", defined as any device that would help them perform tasks that would otherwise be difficult or impossible.\n\nThe Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities Act (P.L. 100-407) was first passed in 1988, reauthorized in 1994 (P.L. 103-218) and again in 1998 (P.L. 105-394). It was designated as a systems change grant and is often called the \"Tech Act\" for short. Congress passed this legislation to increase access to, availability of, and funding for assistive technology through state efforts and national initiatives. The 1998 law reaffirmed that technology is a valuable tool that can be used to improve the lives of Americans with disabilities.\n\nEvery state and territory of the United States was awarded a Tech Act project. The first group of projects started in 1989. Each state project had five years of funding under the 1989 law. A competitive grant application was required to receive an additional five years of funds. Projects were assured of eight years of full funding; the ninth year at 75% of full funding; and the tenth year as a Tech Act project at 50% of full funding.\n\nLegislation supporting the state assistive technology projects was scheduled to sunset on September 30, 2004. The Assistive Technology Act of 2004 (P.L. 108-364) reauthorized the assistive technology programs in all states and territories for five years as a formula-based program, and removed the sunset provision from the law.\n\nOne of the major changes brought about by the Assistive Technology Act of 2004 was a change in purpose. Previous Acts focused on helping states build \"systems for improving access to assistive technology devices for individuals with disabilities.\" With the 2004 edition, the Act now required States to provide direct aid to individuals with disabilities to ensure they have access to the technology they need. As a result, the majority of State efforts are required to be conducted in the following areas: assistive technology reutilization programs, assistive technology demonstration programs, alternative financing programs and device loan programs.\n\nDue to the efforts of the State Tech Act Programs, millions of Americans with disabilities are able to go to work, go to school, participate in recreation activities, and be contributing members of their communities. The State Program accomplishments are summarized each year as part of the Tech Act reporting requirements. A summary of these accomplishments is compiled by the Association of Assistive Technology Act Programs; complete copies of each State Plan can be found at the National Information System for Assistive Technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "24035522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24035522", "title": "Atlas Black: Managing to Succeed", "text": "Atlas Black: Managing to Succeed\n\nAtlas Black: Managing to Succeed is a graphic novel by Jeremy Short, Talya Bauer, and Dave Ketchen, about a fictional character named Atlas Black and his efforts to create a startup restaurant while completing his senior year of college. The series is illustrated by Len Simon. The compilation contains five chapters published by Flat World Knowledge.\n\nFaced with meager career opportunities after a series of short-term jobs, Atlas Black decides that his best career prospect is to start his own business. Atlas Black blends the storyline of Atlas’s quest to start his own entrepreneurial startup, with insights from key management theories drawn from the fields of entrepreneurship, organizational behavior and applied psychology, and strategic management.\n\n\"Atlas Black: Managing to Succeed\" is the first business management text in graphic novel format. The lead author, Jeremy Short, was inspired by movies such as \"Office Space\" and TV shows such as \"The Office\" to provide a more entertaining delivery of management content that would follow a storyline rather than disconnected examples common to most traditional textbooks. Texas Tech University, where Short is employed, produced a short interview discussing the book and its potential as a vehicle for learning and education. Short also co-authored the first Harvard Business Publishing case in graphic novel format, which details a fictional company named iPremier as it struggles to deal with a denial of service attack on its online retailer.\n\nFlat World is no longer offering this title effective late 2013\n\nAtlas Black and his best friend and sidekick David Chan are introduced. Atlas is behind on his rent, and realizes that he needs to take dramatic steps to improve his career prospects. He begins to realize that much of his knowledge of business is based on memorizing terms and buzzwords that he has trouble applying to actual business situations. The mysterious ‘Black’ appears and suggests that starting his own business is a risky proposition, but an acceptable trade-off given Atlas’s other prospects.\n\nAtlas attempts to gain funding by completing his tax returns. Much to his surprise, his ex-girlfriend Maria is working at the accounting firm he visits. Atlas explains that he is now taking school more seriously and even applying the idea of a balanced scorecard to his personal life, but Maria is unconvinced. The chapter ends in an embarrassing appearance at a local house party when his friend Tess requesting him as a delivery driver for Pilgrim Pizza, his current job as well.\n\nAtlas learns that the mechanics of starting his own business are not as difficult or important as the need to develop a specific strategy. With the help of David, he concludes that a restaurant makes sense of a potential entrepreneurial venture in most college towns – but he also needs a unique hook if this idea it to truly move forward.\n\nAfter a revelation with the mysterious ‘Black’ while playing disk golf, Atlas develops the idea of the No Cover Café. This restaurant would provide free live music with modestly priced food to attract the audience associated with most college towns. Atlas interviews a classmate for a potential internship, and she is livid to discover the position will be unpaid, providing another opportunity for embarrassment for Atlas.\n\nAtlas realizes the need to become more organized if the No Cover Café is to become a reality, and visits his college’s career fair to contemplate potential employees and other local firms that they could supply their restaurant, such as Cat Lady Coffee – a local coffee shop that Atlas and David frequent.\n\n"}
{"id": "24137599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24137599", "title": "Brighde Mullins", "text": "Brighde Mullins\n\nBrighde Mullins is an American playwright and poet.\n\nShe graduated from the Yale School of Drama (Playwriting) and the Iowa Writers' Workshop of the University of Iowa (Poetry), with MFAs.\n\nShe taught at San Francisco State University, Brown University, Harvard University, CalArts, and currently teaches at University of Southern California where she is also the director of USC's Master of Professional Writing Program. In 2012, she was awarded a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship.\n\nShe is a Usual Suspect at New York Theatre Workshop, and is a Core Member of the Playwrights' Center in Minneapolis. In 2014 she was awarded a residency at the Rauschenberg Foundation on Captiva Island.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18918422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18918422", "title": "Calandreta", "text": "Calandreta\n\nA Calandreta () is a bilingual school in Occitania in the South of France where the Occitan language is taught alongside the French language. These schools are based on the same principle as the \"Diwan\" schools of Brittany, as well as the \"Gaelscoileanna\" movement in Ireland, the \"Ikastolak\" movement in the Basque Country, the \"Ysgolion Meithrin\" movement in Wales, and the La Bressola schools of Northern Catalonia.\n\nBilingualism from an early age is recommended by many linguists, as it helps children become more adept at learning additional languages. Some studies have shown that bilingual children have advantages over monoglot children in other subjects.\n\nThe first Calandreta appeared in 1979 in Pau, Pyrénées-Atlantiques. Fifty-five primary schools exist as of 2013, as well as two high schools comprising about 3278 students in all. The Calandretas are privately run, secular and free of charge. They follow a program approved by the Ministry of National Education. \n"}
{"id": "52050147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52050147", "title": "Centre for the Study of Contemporary Islam", "text": "Centre for the Study of Contemporary Islam\n\nThe Centre for the Study of Contemporary Islam (full official name in Italian Centro Studi sull'Islam Contemporaneo, CSIC) is an Italian institute specialised in Islamic studies.\n\nIt is a private association and its headquarters are in Rome.\n\nThe Centre's activities branch out in two main directions: MENA and APAC programmes, making research, publications, and events. CSIC is an impartial scientific benchmark for all those interested in international issues: from members of the political and cultural worlds to operators in the business community, public administrations, international bodies and non governmental organisations.\n\n"}
{"id": "3331237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3331237", "title": "Cognitive elite", "text": "Cognitive elite\n\nThe cognitive elite of a society, according to Richard J. Herrnstein and Charles Murray, are those having higher intelligence levels and thus better prospects for success in life. The development of a cognitive elite during the 20th century is presented in their 1994 book \"The Bell Curve\". In this book, Herrnstein and Murray propose that the cognitive elite has been produced by a more technological society which offers enough high skill jobs for those with a higher intelligence to fill. They also propose that by removing race, gender or class as criteria the main criteria of success in academic and professional life is becoming primarily based on cognitive ability.\n\nEducational psychologist Linda Gottfredson wrote:\nThe book has met with criticism, as has the cognitive elite concept. It has been claimed that the case has been \"wildly exaggerated\", and it is based on an intelligence measure that is also criticized.\n\n"}
{"id": "50781384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50781384", "title": "Colleges of Applied Sciences, Oman", "text": "Colleges of Applied Sciences, Oman\n\nThe Colleges of Applied Sciences are six government owned and operated colleges located the Sultanate of Oman. The colleges have locations in Rustaq, Ibri, Salalah, Nizwa, Sohar, and Sur. The colleges are the only ones in the country which fall under the Ministry of Higher Education.\n\nThe Colleges of Applied Sciences offer bachelor's degree programs in Information Technology, Design, Communication Studies, and International Business Administration.\n\nIn 2015 students enrolled in the six colleges total 7,648, with students including both males and females. \n"}
{"id": "2940315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2940315", "title": "Continuing medical education", "text": "Continuing medical education\n\nContinuing medical education (CME) refers to a specific form of continuing education (CE) that helps those in the medical field maintain competence and learn about new and developing areas of their field. These activities may take place as live events, written publications, online programs, audio, video, or other electronic media. Content for these programs is developed, reviewed, and delivered by faculty who are experts in their individual clinical areas. Similar to the process used in academic journals, any potentially conflicting financial relationships for faculty members must be both disclosed and resolved in a meaningful way. However, critics complain that drug and device manufacturers often use their financial sponsorship to bias CMEs towards marketing their own products.\n\nContinuing medical education is not a new concept. From essentially the beginning of institutionalized medical instruction (medical instruction affiliated with medical colleges and teaching hospitals), health practitioners continued their learning by meeting with their peers. Grand rounds, case discussions, and meetings to discuss published medical papers constituted the continuing learning experience. In the 1950s through to the 1980s, CME was increasingly funded by the pharmaceutical industry. Concerns regarding informational bias (both intentional and unintentional) led to increasing scrutiny of the CME funding sources. This led to the establishment of certifying agencies such as the Society for Academic Continuing Medical Education which is an umbrella organization representing medical associations and bodies of academic medicine from the United States, Canada, Great Britain and Europe. The pharmaceutical industry has also developed guidelines regarding drug detailing and industry sponsorship of CME, such as the Pharmaceutical Advertising Advisory Board (PAAB) and Canada's Research-Based Pharmaceutical Companies (Rx&D).\n\nIn the United States, many states require CME for medical professionals to maintain their licenses. Within the United States, CME for physicians is regulated by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) and the American Osteopathic Association (AOA).\n\nIn Canada, certification is provided by the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada (RCPSC) and the College of Family Physicians Canada (CFPC). The RCPSC is responsible for the development and implementation of all certifying examinations in each specialty other than Family Medicine. Specialist physicians who join the Royal College as Fellows maintain their knowledge, skills, competence and performance through participating in the Maintenance of Certification Program. For each five-year cycle, fellows of the college are required to document 400 credits, with a minimum of 40 credits obtained in each year of the cycle. Credits are earned at one to two credits per hour, based on the type of learning activity. The CFPC requires 250 credit-hours over a five-year cycle. Fifty credits must be obtained for each year of the cycle. To earn and maintain fellowship within the college, an additional 24 credit-hours of higher level learning are also required over each learning cycle. Similarly, each province and territory requires documentation of ongoing CME for licensure.\n\nContinuing medical education activities are developed and delivered by a variety of organizations, including:\n\nActivities may be classified as Formal Learning Activities, including live planned programs, enduring materials (such as DVD- and web-based content), Process Improvement CME (or PI-CME, as defined by the American Medical Association), or Informal Learning Activities such as Internet-Point of Care (POC) research and decision making, or journal clubs whose members evaluate published research for mutual awareness and benefit, or online professional communities.\n\nIn 2008, professional certification for CME planners was established by the National Commission for Certification of CME Professionals which is earned by standardized exam, and confers the Certified CME Professional (CCMEP) certificate. NC-CME maintains a registry of these certified professionals. As of June 2011, the Registry included 320 professionals.\n\nCritics, such as Morris and Taitsman, would prefer that the medical profession eliminate commercial support for CME.\n\nDespite ACCME requirements that program content be free of commercial interests, \"CME providers can easily pitch topics designed to attract commercial sponsorship,\" and sponsors can award grants to programs that support their marketing strategies. The Institute of Medicine has said that CME has become too reliant on industry funding that \"tends to promote a narrow focus on the products and to neglect provisions of a broader education on alternative strategies,\" such as communication and prevention.\n\nFor example, gabapentin (Neurontin), was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for adjunctive therapy in epilepsy, but Warner-Lambert sponsored CME activities that encouraged its use for off-label indications. The U.S. Department of Justice brought civil and criminal charges against Warner-Lambert, which Warner-Lambert settled for $430 million, alleging that Warner-Lambert paid kickbacks to doctors in the form of lavish trips to attend presentations about off-label uses. More recently, AstraZeneca PLC has been fined $520 million in the United States for off-label promotion to doctors for their anti-psychotic drug, Seroquel.\n\nIndustry-sponsored CMEs can violate federal statutes, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. \"When a pharmaceutical manufacturer rewards high-prescribing physicians by directing a CME provider to pay (or overpay) them as CME faculty, consultants, or members of a speaker's bureau,\" wrote Morris and Taitsman.\n"}
{"id": "1885260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1885260", "title": "Dean's List", "text": "Dean's List\n\nA Dean's List is an academic award, or notation, used to recognize the level of highest scholarship demonstrated by students in a college or university. This system is most often used in North America, though institutions in Europe, Asia, and Australia may also employ similar measures. It is often synonymous with honor roll and honor list, but should not be confused with honours degrees.\n\nGenerally, students enrolled in college or university would need to satisfy a series of specific requirements before receiving the Dean's List. These requirements may differ across institutions, but in most cases will require students to enroll in a full-time capacity, to achieve a specific grade point average within the academic term, and to maintain a specific cumulative grade point average throughout enrollment. Universities may often establish further rewards, such as Annual Dean's Lists, for students that demonstrate even greater academic distinction. As such, a Dean's List and its direct derivatives are usually intended for students that demonstrate highest scholarship across multiple disciplines, and not necessarily bound to a specific field of study.\n\nOver time, the Dean's List has also led to the creation of additional rewards with similar nomenclatures, including the Provost's List, the Chancellor's List, the Rector's List (mostly limited to within Europe), and the Director's List. The additional requirements to be met for such honors may include academic distinction within a target field of study, extracurricular achievements, continued high scholarship throughout enrollment or other noteworthy accomplishments.\n\nAlthough the Dean's List and Latin honors may both be issued in recognition of high scholarship, they are mostly separate awards not intended for direct comparison.\nMany institutions confer three levels of Latin honors, as follows:\n\nBecause Latin honors are often conferred to the approximate class rank whereby students also receive the Dean's List (as the top 10-15%), magna and summa cum laude are usually held in higher regard. A Dean's List may therefore be seen as equal to (or more prestigious than) \"cum laude,\" depending on the specific requirements involved.\n\nThe Dean's List GPA requirements vary from school to school, although there are general standards:\n\nSome schools maintain two lists for two different levels of GPA. For example, the dean's list records students with at least a 3.5 GPA whereas the chancellor's list records students with a higher 4.0 GPA.\n\nDifferent from an academic scholarship, the dean's list award does not come with any financial aid. However, students high on the dean's list are often offered extra financial aid, especially if they express a desire to transfer or exhibit more financial need.\n\nIn Europe, colleges and universities may utilize variations of the British degree classifications to distinguish students of high scholarship. The classification system as currently used in the United Kingdom, for example, was developed in 1918. The system was implemented based on one from the 16th century, when the Regius Professor of Divinity at the University of Cambridge implemented norm referencing to distinguish the top 25% of candidates, the next 50%, and the bottom 25%.\n\nToday, first-class honours (commonly referred to as \"first-hons\") is awarded, by most institutions, to any student that receives a grade of 70% or higher (as opposed to classification by class rank). The number of first-class honours degrees has reportedly tripled since the 1990s, and there has been concern over possible grade inflation due to increasing numbers of higher-class honours degrees awarded per annum.\n\n"}
{"id": "2226161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2226161", "title": "Education in Bangladesh", "text": "Education in Bangladesh\n\n\"Education in Bangladesh\"' is overseen by the Bangladesh's Ministry of Education. Ministry of Primary and Mass Education are responsible for implementing policy for primary education and state-funded schools at a local level. In Bangladesh, all citizens must undertake twelve years of compulsory education which consists of eight years at primary school level and six years at high school level. Primary and secondary education is financed by the state and free of charge in public schools.\n\nBangladesh conforms fully to the UN's Education For All (EFA) objectives and the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) as well as other education-related international declarations. Article 17 of the Bangladesh Constitution provides that all children receive free and compulsory education.\n\nThe main education system is divided into three levels: \n\nAt all levels of schooling, students can choose to receive their education in English or Bangla. Private schools tend to make use of English-based study media while government-sponsored schools use Bangla.\n\nCadet Colleges are important in the education system of Bangladesh. A cadet college is a room and board collegiate administered by the Bangladesh. Military discipline is compulsory at all cadet colleges. Faujdarhat Cadet College is the first cadet college in Bangladesh, established in 1958 over an area of at Faujdarhat in the district of Chittagong. At present there are 12 cadet colleges in Bangladesh, including 3 cadet colleges for girls.\n\nTertiary education in Bangladesh takes place at 37 government, 80 private and 3 international universities. Students can choose to further their studies in Chartered Accountancy, engineering, technology, agriculture and medicine at a variety of universities and colleges. \n\nThe overall responsibility of management of primary education lies with the Ministry of Primary and Mass Education (MOPME), set up as a Ministry in 1992. While MOPME is involved in formulation of policies, the responsibility of implementation rests with the Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) headed by a Director General. The Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) and its subordinate offices in the district and upazila are solely responsible for management and supervision of primary education. Their responsibilities include recruitment, posting, and transfer of teachers and other staff; arranging in-service training of teachers; distribution of free textbooks; and supervision of schools. The responsibility of school construction, repair and supply of school furniture lies with the DPE executed through the Local Government Engineering Department (LGED). The National Curriculum and Textbook Board (NCTB) is responsible for the development of curriculum and production of textbooks. While the Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for formulation of policies, the Directorate of Secondary and Higher Education (DSHE) under the Ministry of Education is responsible for implementing the same at secondary and higher education levels. The NCTB is responsible for developing curriculum and publishing standard textbooks.\n\nThe Directorate of Primary Education (DPE) are responsible for conducting the two public examinations:\n\nThe secondary level of education is controlled by the eight General Education boards:\n\nThe boards' headquarters are located in Barishal, Comilla Chittagong, Dhaka, Dinajpur Jessore, Rajshahi and Sylhet.\n\nEight region-based Boards of Intermediate and Secondary Education (BISE) are responsible for conducting the two public examinations:\n\nAt the school level, in the case of non-government secondary schools, School Management Committees (SMC), and at the intermediate college level, in the case of non-government colleges, Governing Bodies (GB), formed as per government directives, are responsible for mobilising resources, approving budgets, controlling expenditures, and appointing and disciplining staff. While teachers of non-government secondary schools are recruited by concerned SMCs observing relevant government rules, teachers of government secondary schools are recruited centrally by the DSHE through a competitive examination.\n\nIn government secondary schools, there is not an SMC. The headmaster is solely responsible for running the school and is supervised by the deputy director of the respective zone. Parent Teachers Associations (PTAs), however, exist to ensure a better teaching and learning environment.\n\nAt the tertiary level, universities are regulated by the University Grants Commission.The colleges providing tertiary education are under the National University. Each of the medical colleges is affiliated with a public university. Universities in Bangladesh are autonomous bodies administered by statutory bodies such as Syndicate, Senate, Academic Council, etc. in accordance with provisions laid down in their respective acts.\n\nThe Technical and Vocational Education System provides courses related to various applied and practical areas of science, technology and engineering, or focuses on a specific specialized area. Course duration ranges from one month to four years. The Technical Education Board controls technical and vocational training in the secondary level.\n\nThe Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) is responsible for the planning, development, and implementation of technical and vocational education in the country. Curriculum is implemented by BTEB. There are also a number of private universities in Bangladesh.In the Technical Education System, after obtaining a Diploma-in-Engineering degree (four-year curriculum) from the institutes listed below, students can further pursue their educational career by obtaining a bachelor's degree from Engineering & Technology Universities. It normally it takes an additional two and a half to three years of coursework to obtain a bachelor's degree, although some students take more than three years to do so. They can then enroll in post-graduate studies. Students can also study CA (Chartered Accounting) after passing HSC or bachelor's degree and subject to fulfilling the entry criteria of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB).\n\nA vast number of schools in Bangladesh are English version schools. English Medium schools are mainly private schools where all the courses are taught in English except one Bengali Language subject at ordinary level (O Level). These schools in Bangladesh follow the General Certificate of Education (GCE) syllabus where students are prepared for taking their Ordinary Level (O Level) and Advanced Level (A Level) examinations. The General Certificate of Education system is one of the most internationally recognised qualifications, based in the United Kingdom. The Ordinary and Advanced Level examinations are English equivalent to the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) and Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSC) examinations respectively. Most students sit for these exams from the registered schools in Bangladesh who follow the GCE syllabus. Those who do not attend a school that follows the GCE syllabus may also sit for their Ordinary and Advanced Level examinations from the British Council. These examinations are conducted under the supervision of the British Council in Bangladesh. The GCE examination conducted by the British Council takes place twice a year. Currently there are two boards operating from Bangladesh for Ordinary and Advanced Level Examinations, which are Edexcel and University of Cambridge International Examinations.\nBangladesh has recently opened English version schools (Bangladesh) translating board textbooks in English.\n\nThe Madrasah Education System focuses on religious education, teaching all the basics of education in a religious environment. Religious studies are taught in Arabic and the students in some areas also serve the local area masjids. Students also have to complete all the courses from the General Education System. Many privately licensed Madrasas take in homeless children and provide them with food, shelter and education, e.g. Jamia Tawakkulia Renga Madrasah in Sylhet.\nIn the Madrasah Education System there are two systems:\n\nOne, called the \"Quomi\" Madrasah system is privately owned and funded and is run according to the Deobandi system of Islamic education, which rejects the rational sciences.\n\nThe other, called the \"Alia\" madrasah system, is privately owned but subsidised by the government (the government spends 11.5% of its education budget on alia madrasahs, paying 80% of teacher and administrator salaries). Quomi madrasahs account for 1.9% of total primary enrollment and 2.2% of secondary enrollment; aliyah madrasahs account for 8.4% of primary and 19% of secondary enrollment. The alia system is like the general education system, except that Arabic is taught in addition to general education. The Madrasah Education Board covers religious education in government-registered Madrasahs in the secondary level. After passing \"Alim\", a student can enroll for 3 additional years to obtain a \"Fazil\" level. Students can go for further general education and earn a university degree. After passing successfully, they can further enroll for another 2 years to obtain a \"Kamil\" level degree. \n\nThe following table provides a statistical comparison of the \"Quomi\" and \"Alia\" madrasah systems.\nThere exists a substantial number of NGO-run non-formal schools, catering mainly to the drop-outs of the government and non-government primary schools. Very few NGOs, however, impart education for the full five-year primary education cycle. Because of this, on completion of their two-to three-year non-formal primary education in NGO-run schools, students normally re-enter into government/non-government primary schools at higher classes.\n\nThere are Non-Governmental Schools (NGO) and Non-Formal Education Centers (NFE) and many of these are funded by the government. The largest NFE program is the much reputed BRAC program. However, not all NFE graduates continue on to secondary school.\n\nNGO-run schools differ from other non-government private schools. While the private schools operate like private enterprises often guided by commercial interests, NGO schools operate mainly in areas not served either by the government or private schools, essentially to meet the educational needs of vulnerable groups in the society. They usually follow an informal approach to suit the special needs of children from these vulnerable groups. But nowadays, some NGO schools are operating into places where there are both private and government schools.\n\nSimilarly, in NGO-run schools there does not exist any SMC. The style of management differs depending upon differences in policies pursued by different NGOs. Some are centrally managed within a highly bureaucratic set-up, while others enjoy considerable autonomy.\n\nDifferent NGOs pursue different policies regarding recruitment of teachers. Some prepare a panel of prospective teachers on the basis of a rigorous test and recruit teachers from this panel. Other NGOs recruit teachers rather informally from locally available interested persons.\n\nCurrent government projects to promote the education of children in Bangladesh include compulsory primary education for all, free education for girls up to grade 10, stipends for female students, a nationwide integrated education system and a food-for-education literacy movement. A large section of the country's national budget is set aside to help put these programs into action and to promote education and make it more accessible. Recent years have seen these efforts pay off and the Bangladesh education system is strides ahead of what it was only a few years ago. Now even national curriculum books from class 5 to class 12 are distributed freely among all students and schools.\n\nThe educational system of Bangladesh faces several problems. In the past, Bangladesh education was primarily a British modelled upper class affair with all courses given in English and very little being done for the common people. The Bangladesh education board has taken steps to leave such practices in the past and is looking forward to education as a way to provide a poverty-stricken nation with a brighter future.\nAs Bangladesh is an overpopulated country, there is a huge demand to turn its population into labour, which is why proper education is needed and proper help from government in the educational sectors of Bangladesh is crucial.\n\nPublic expenditure on education lies on the fringes of 2 percent of GDP with a minimum of 0.94 percent in 1980 and a maximum of 2.2 percent in 2007.\n\nThe Education system lacks a sound Human Resource Development and deployment system and this has demoralised the primary education sector personnel, including teachers, and contributes to poor performance. Poverty is a big threat to primary education. In Bangladesh, the population is very high. The number of seats available in colleges is less than the number of students who want to enroll, and the number of seats available in universities is also less than the number of students who passed higher secondary level and want to join in a university. Besides, the cost of education is increasing day by day, as a result many students are unable to afford it.\n\nOne study found a 15.5% primary school teacher absence rate.\n\nIn Bangladesh, gender discrimination in education occurs amongst the rural households but is non-existent amongst rich households. There is great difference in the success rates of boys, as compared to girls in Bangladesh. However, in recent years some progress has been made in trying to fix this problem.\n\nThe low performance in primary education is also matter of concern. School drop-out rates and grade repetition rates are high. Poor school attendance and low contact time in school are factors contributing to low level of learning achievement.\n\nMadrasah education in Bangladesh is heavily influenced by religion.\n\nBangladesh has one of the lowest literacy rates in Asia, estimated at 66.5% for males and 63.1% for females in 2014. Recently the literacy rate of Bangladesh has improved as it stands at 71% due to the modernization of schools and education funds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14703254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14703254", "title": "French ship Austerlitz (1852)", "text": "French ship Austerlitz (1852)\n\nThe Austerlitz was a late 100-gun \"Hercule\"-class ship of the line of the French Navy.\n\nLaid down as \"Ajax\", she was renamed \"Austerlitz\" on 28 November 1839, still on keel.\n\nIn 1850, her rigging was changed for that of a 90-gun, and a steam engine was installed.\n\nShe took part in operations in the Black Sea in 1854.\n\nFrom 1871, she was used as a prison hulk of prisoners of the Paris Commune. Between 1874 and 1894, she was used as a school ship. She was eventually broken up in 1895.\n\n"}
{"id": "49444769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49444769", "title": "Go Heritage Run", "text": "Go Heritage Run\n\nGo Heritage Runs is an award-winning series of fun runs organized across India at various heritage locations. It was founded by GoUNESCO founder Ajay Reddy in 2014. The goal of these runs is to promote awareness of heritage locations.\n\nGo Heritage Runs began as an offshoot of GoUNESCO in 2014.\n\nThe run format of Go Heritage Runs is simple. These runs are conducted at heritage sites and are not time bound. They are organized on a Sunday and include different run formats such as 5K, 10K, up to the distance of a half marathon (21.0975 km). The exact run distances vary from location to location.\n\nThe preparation for these runs began in July 2014 in Hampi, where a test run was arranged. About 50 people traveled from Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Chennai, to participate in the run. In November 2014, the next test run was conducted in Bidar.\n\nOn 27 January 2015, a full-fledged run was organized in Hampi, Karnataka which saw a decent turnout of runners traveling from a number of Indian cities. Through the rest of the year, heritage runs were conducted in cities such as Hyderabad, Ooty, Udaipur and lesser known heritage sites such as Bidar, Badami and Warangal \n\nIn 2016, Go Heritage Runs commenced the year with a run in Hampi.\n\nConde Nast Traveller recognized 3 of Go Heritage Runs in its list of top scenic marathons in India.\n"}
{"id": "9262704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9262704", "title": "Harvey Dinnerstein", "text": "Harvey Dinnerstein\n\nHarvey Dinnerstein (born 1928), is a figurative artist and educator. A draftsman and painter in the realistic tradition, his work has included genre paintings, contemporary narratives, complex figurative compositions, portraits, and intimate images of his family and friends.\n\nDinnerstein was born in Brooklyn, New York, and studied with Moses Soyer, Yasuo Kuniyoshi, and Julian E. Levi at the Art Students League of New York. From 1947 to 1950 Dinnerstein was also a student at the Tyler School of Art at Temple University in Philadelphia. Upon his return to New York in the early 1950s, he was one of a group of recent Tyler graduates who resisted the prevailing style of Abstract Expressionism in order to paint in a figurative mode.\n\nInspired by the Montgomery, Alabama bus boycott of 1956, Dinnerstein traveled south to document the Civil Rights upheaval through a series of drawings. This interest in cultural and moral issues continued to inform drawings and paintings that recorded the social unrest of the 1960s.\n\nFrom 1965 to 1980 Dinnerstein taught at the School of Visual Arts in New York, and from 1975 to 1992 at the National Academy of Design, of which he was elected a member in 1974. He has taught at the Art Students League since 1980.\n\nHe received an Honorary Doctorate from the Lyme Academy College of Fine Arts in Old Lyme, Connecticut in 1998.\n\nDinnerstein has participated in numerous exhibitions in galleries and museums throughout the United States. His work is in the permanent collections of the Butler Institute of American Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art, Museum of the City of New York, National Academy of Design, National Museum of American Art, and the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.\n\nHe has been a very influential instructor for several generations of students at The National Academy of Design and the Art Students League, including Ephraim Rubenstein, Nomi Silverman and Gregory William Frux.\n\nHis book \"Harvey Dinnerstein: An Artist at Work\" was published in 1978 by Watson-Guptill.\n\nHe is the brother of figurative artist Simon Dinnerstein, and the uncle of concert pianist Simone Dinnerstein.\n\n"}
{"id": "638263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=638263", "title": "Higher education in Mauritius", "text": "Higher education in Mauritius\n\nHigher education in Mauritius includes colleges, universities and other technical institutions. The sector is managed by the Tertiary Education Commission (TEC) which has the responsibility for allocating public funds, and fostering, planning and coordinating the development of post-secondary education and training.\n\nThe Open University of Mauritius (OU) was established on 12 July 2012 according to the Open University of Mauritius ACT 2010. OU delivers education to learners who wish to study full-time as well as to those who are unable to be physically present on campus. With flexible study options, its learners can study from home, work, or anywhere in the world. The Mauritius College of the Air, which was established in 1971, has integrated with the Open University of Mauritius in July 2012. OU is a member of the Association of Commonwealth Universities, International Council for Open and Distance Education, and African Council for Distance Education.\n\nIn collaboration with other universities it offers courses both on open/distance/blended and full-time learning modes. There are three campuses in Mauritius and one in Rodrigues.\n\nDistance learners watch or listen to materials supplied, work on course activities and assignments with support from the tutor who is an email away. Tutorials are organized but they are mostly optional and give a chance to meet the tutors and fellow learners. Through its virtual classrooms, international learners also participate in interactive sessions conducted by its resource persons. It also offers short courses that help to improve the employability skills.\n\nOU offers qualifications ranging from short employability courses, B.Sc./B.Ed., M.Sc./M.Ed./M.A, MBA to DBA/Ph.D. to fields including Management, Business Administration, Human Resource Management/Development, Education, Finance, Accounting, Taxation, Law, Graphics Design, Journalism, Multimedia, Audio-visual Production, Translation Studies, Mathematics, Logistics, Transport, French and English.\n\nOU conducts corporate training for private and public institutions. Employees are empowered through continuous professional development courses.\nOU has a School of Public Health; a Centre for Research on Interculturality; and a Big Data Research Centre.\nhttp://www.open.ac.mu\n\nThe Mauritius Branch Campus of Greenwich University (Pakistan) is located in at 51, Ebene, Cybercity, Mauritius and fully accredited by Tertiary Education Commission of Mauritius, offering undergraduate and graduate degrees in Business Administration. The Campus is also approved by Mauritius Qualification Authority (MQA).\n\nGreenwich University has been imparting quality higher education in Pakistan for the past 30 years. The University is recognized by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan (HEC) and is ranked among the top 10 Business Schools of Pakistan. Greenwich University has a campus in The Republic of Mauritius, duly recognized by the Tertiary Education Commission of Mauritius (TEC), and by Mauritius Qualification Authority, Mauritius. Making it the only university from Pakistan who has an international campus duly recognized by accrediting bodies.\n\nGreenwich University, chartered by Sindh Government of Pakistan (PAS/Legis-B-22/97 on 3 February 1998) as a Degree Awarding University and duly recognized by Higher Education Commission (HEC) of Pakistan and ranked among top 10 Business Schools of Pakistan.\n\nGreenwich is member of Association of International Education (NAFSA), International Association of Universities (IAU), The Association of Advance Collegiate Schools in Business (AACSB), Asia Pacific Quality Network (APQN), International Network for Quality Assurance Agencies in Higher Education (INQAAHE), Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU) and Association of MBA (AMBA).\n\nThe university is developing a campus in the Quartier Militaire, which is in its final stages of construction. The new ste will be subject to the approval of the TEC.\n\nAberystwyth University (Mauritius Branch Campus) is registered with the TEC to operate from the Ebene Cybercity campus.\n\nAll the courses, at undergraduate and postgraduate level, are accredited by the UK Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education.\n\nAberystwyth University, established in 1872, was the first university in Wales. It was amongst the first in Britain to award degrees to women and opened the UK’s first women’s hall of residence in 1885. It was the first university in Wales to offer courses in a range of disciplines including computing, law, media and film, geography and in earth sciences. The world’s first Department of International Politics was established by Aberystwyth University.\n\nStarting as the College of Agriculture, the University of Mauritius, established in 1965, dominates the Tertiary Education Sector locally. Originally, it had three Schools, namely Agriculture, Administration and Industrial Technology. It has since expanded to comprise five faculties, namely Agriculture, Engineering, Law and Management, Science, and Social Studies & Humanities.\n\nIt has a Centre for Medical Research and Studies and hosts the SSR Medical College (Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam Medical College). It has a Centre for Distance Education, a Centre for Information Technology and Systems, and a Consultancy Centre.\n\nThe UoM is expanding, with a student growth rate of about 10% annually. Programmes have changed steadily from sub-degree certificate/diploma levels to undergraduate and taught masters Programmes, as well as research at postgraduate level.\n\nThe University of Technology, Mauritius (UTM) Act was promulgated in May 2000 and became operational in September 2000. UTM has three schools: the School of Business Informatics and Software Engineering, the School of Public Sector Policy and Management, and the School of Sustainable Development Science.\n\nFounded in 1973, the MIE was charged with teacher education, research in education and curriculum development. The role of the MIE as a curriculum development centre has been phased so that it is now predominantly involved in training teachers and educational research. However, it continued to play a role in curriculum planning and development so that the MIE has been entrusted with the responsibility for Curriculum Development as from October 2010.\n\nThere are five schools at MIE: Applied Sciences, Education, Science and Mathematics, Arts and Humanities and a Centre for Open and Distance Learning.\n\nIt offers training to school teachers from pre-primary, primary and secondary schools, as well as managerial cadres in programme ranging from Certificate, Diploma, the Post Graduate Certificate in Education and Post Graduate Diplomas. It offers B.Ed as well as Masters programmes in Education, in collaboration with the University of Mauritius and the University of Brighton, UK respectively. It offers Doctoral programmes in association with the University of KwaZulu Natal, South Africa and the University of Brighton, UK.\n\nThe MIE, through its Centre for Open & Distance Learning, is involved in the Sankore Project for digitising curriculum materials for primary and secondary schools, and the introduction of interactive white board technology in schools.\n\nMGI was established in 1970 as a joint government of Mauritius and government of India venture for the promotion of education and culture, with emphasis on Indian culture and traditions. It runs, within the tertiary set-up, programmes in Indian Studies, Performing Arts, Fine Arts, Chinese and Mauritian Studies.\n\nMGI has three main schools operating at the tertiary level: the School of Indian Studies, the School of Music and Fine Arts, and the School of Mauritian and Area Studies. It also runs diploma and certificate level programmes, degree level programmes in Languages, Fine Arts and Performing Arts, in collaboration with the UoM. A secondary school and the Gandhian Basic School operate within the ambit of the MGI.\n\nMCA was established in 1971 to promote education, arts and science and culture in Mauritius through mass media. When the MCA statute was re-enacted in 1985, distance education was maintained as a major strategy to meet these objectives. Merged with the Audio-Visual Centre of the Ministry of Education and Science in 1986, the MCA has until recently been catering mainly for the primary and secondary education sector through the production of educational programmes for broadcast on radio and television. The MCA has also been producing educational materials for non-formal or continuing education, for non-broadcast use. Since the beginning of 1995, it has been involved in dispensing tertiary level programmes in collaboration with overseas institutions through the distance mode.\n\nThe MCA is being reconfigured as the Open University of Mauritius.\n\nSet up in December 2002, the Rabindranath Tagore Institute has a cultural vocation and operates under the aegis of the Mahatma Gandhi Institute. It is still in an early phase of development.\n\nTwo polytechnic institutions exist in the country. \n\nThe TSMTF was created in 1990 to manage the Polytechnics. It is administered by a Board. Industry Advisory Committees, composed of representatives of both the public and private sectors, are appointed in respect of the programmes. The committees function is to:\n\nThe IVTB was set up in 1988 to promote vocational education and training with the purposes of supplying workforce for the industrial, services and domestic sectors. Most of the programmes are vocational nature leading to the National Trade Certification (levels 3 and 2). As from 1998 the IVTB began tertiary level programmes at the levels of certificate and diploma in areas including Hotel Management, Automation and Information Technology.\n\nSince 2004, the IVTB has introduced the National Trade Certificate Foundation Course for students who have completed their Prevocational Education Level 3. The course teaches Craftsmanship.\n\nThe IVTB has also introduced other courses such as IC3 for students of National Trade Certificate Level 2 and 3.\n\nThe MIH was set up in 1989 to cater for the training needs of health professionals, local and regional. It organizes courses and programmes, mostly of short duration for medical and para-medical personnel.\n\nPrivate institutions and organisations, which amount to more than 35, are offering programmes in Management, Accountancy and Information Technology. Most of these private institutions are local counterparts of overseas institutions and are offering programmes ranging from sub-degree to postgraduate ones through a mixed-mode system, encompassing both distance learning and face-to face tutorials. A majority of the examinations are conducted by the Mauritius Examinations Syndicate (MES) and a few are organised and invigilated by the overseas institutions themselves in collaboration with the local partner. Key players include the Charles Telfair Institute, MALEM, the Mauritius Employers Federation and the Mauritius Chamber of Commerce & Industry.\n\nThe UIO, established in January 1998 under the aegis of the Indian Ocean Commission (IOC), is a network of tertiary education and research institutions of the five member states, namely Comores, Madagascar, Mauritius, Reunion and Seychelles. It offers tertiary level programmes of a regional vocation in the five member countries. During its three-year pilot phase, the secretariat of the UIO was based in Reunion. In line with a recent decision, the seat of the UIO will be a rotating one among member states.\n\nIFE came into operation in 1999, within the context of an agreement signed between the Ministry of Education and Scientific Research and the \"Association des Universités Partiellement ou Entièrement de Langue Française et L’Université des Réseaux d’Expréssion Française\". It offers Masters and Doctoral programmes and undertake research in entrepreneuriat and related fields with a regional vocation.\n\nSSRMC was created in 1999 and is affiliated with the University of Mauritius. It is situated at Belle Rive nearby the city of Curepipe. It caters for local and overseas students, from India, South Africa, Malaysia, Gulf and other Indian Ocean Rim countries. A report from an international monitoring committee highlighted that the teaching room of the medical college is inadequate and badly sited for clinical teaching.\n\nThe five year degree costs US$50000. Approximately 20% of seats are allocated to local students on the 5-year MBBS program which is divided into ten semesters of 6 months each and BDS course of four years followed by a one-year compulsory rotatory internship. The college offers postgraduation courses MD/MS in five specialities of Medicine, Surgery, Radio diagnosis, Anaesthesiology, and Ophthalmology. The minimum entry requirement is completion of both Cambridge SC and Cambridge HSC examinations, with a minimum requirement of AAB at HSC level. The MBBS degree Of SSR is recognised by the Medical board of California, IMED/ECFMG USA and by the World Health Organisation.\n\nThe Indian Ocean Dental School and Hospital, managed by the R.F. Gandhi A.K. Trust Limited, began in 2003. It is affiliated to Bhavnagar University, Gujarat, India.\n\nThe institute is the key provider of dental education in the region, providing the BDS programme. The program duration is 4 years plus 1 year of internship. Further details can be accessed from www.iodsh.com\n\n\n"}
{"id": "633176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=633176", "title": "Janet Murray", "text": "Janet Murray\n\nJanet Murray is a professor in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication at the Georgia Institute of Technology. Before coming to Georgia Tech in 1999, she was a Senior Research Scientist in the Center for Educational Computing Initiatives at MIT, where she taught humanities and led advanced interactive design projects since 1971. She is well known as an early developer of humanities computing applications, a seminal theorist of digital media, and an advocate of new educational programs in digital media.\n\nJanet Murray designed projects include a digital edition of the Warner Brothers classic, Casablanca. In addition she directs an eTV Prototyping Group, which has worked on interactive television applications for PBS, ABC, MTV, Turner, and other networks. She also works extensively as a member of Georgia Tech's Experimental Game Lab and is an advisor to Georgia Tech's Mobile Technology Group.\n\nMurray's major book is \"Hamlet on the Holodeck: The Future of Narrative in Cyberspace\", which asks whether the computer can provide the basis for an expressive narrative form, just as print technology supported the development of the novel and film technology supported the development of movies. She provides an optimistic answer. Murray’s analysis rests on an understanding of the computer as a medium of representation with a distinct set of properties. She argues that the computer is procedural, participatory, encyclopedic, and spatial, and that it affords three characteristic (but not unique) pleasures: immersion, agency, and transformation. She defines interactivity as the combination of the procedural and the participatory property which together afford the pleasure of agency. She connects research work on artificial intelligence with cultural forms such as games, movies, literature, and television. Murray’s main point is that the new computer formats expand the possibilities of expression available for storytelling. To her, \"digital transmission has opened up the possibility of long-form storytelling, since audiences can view whole seasons after their original broadcast date, and they can follow story over multiple seasons.\"\n\nMurray was a guest writer for Noah Wardrip-Fruin and Nick Montfort \"The New Media Reader\", an anthology of articles on the new media which Janet was the first of the two introduction in the book called \"Inventing the Medium.\" She talks about why Douglas Engelbart is important to the new media. Janet compares and contrasts Jorge Borges's \"The Garden of Forking Paths\" to Vannevar Bush's \"As We May Think\", explaining the similarities and differences between the humanist approach and the scientific approach to digital media. Murray emphasizes that Borges is fascinated by the arbitrariness of language itself, whereas Bush interprets the world not as an imprisoning labyrinth, but a challenging maze waiting to be solved by an appropriately organized and clever team effort (Wardrip-Fruin, 3). She talks about the pros and cons, plus the philosophy of both Borges and Bush, as an introduction to the rest of the articles in \"The New Media Reader\". In addition, she defines the representational power of new media into these four categories: its procedural, participatory, encyclopedic, and spatial properties, with the encyclopedic capacity having the most significance in influence (Wardrip-Fruin, 6). Finally, she goes through the history of hypertext, video games, and World Wide Web.\n\nMurray’s work has been referenced by game designers, interactive television producers, filmmakers, and journalists. It has been criticized from opposing directions, by writer Sven Birkerts as a threat to print culture (in \"HotWired\" magazine and in a televised debate) and by ludologists as an inappropriately literary approach to games (\"Game Studies\" vol. 1 no. 1).\n\nMurray also has an active role in developing two new degree programs at Georgia Tech which were launched in 2004: the Ph.D. in Digital Media and the B.S. in Computational Media. She was a member of the Peabody Awards Board of Jurors from 2007 to 2013.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "861410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=861410", "title": "Jonathan Kozol", "text": "Jonathan Kozol\n\nJonathan Kozol (born September 5, 1936) is an American writer, educator, and activist, best known for his books on public education in the United States.\n\nBorn to Harry Kozol and Ruth (Massell) Kozol, Jonathan graduated from Noble and Greenough School in 1954, and Harvard University \"summa cum laude\" in 1958 with an A.B. in English literature. He was awarded a Rhodes Scholarship to Magdalen College, Oxford. He did not, however, complete his Rhodes, deciding instead to go to Paris to learn to write fiction and nonfiction from experienced authors such as William Styron, Richard Wright, and others who were living in Paris at the time. It was upon his return that he began to tutor children in Roxbury, MA, and soon became a teacher in the Boston Public Schools. He was fired for teaching a Langston Hughes poem, as described in \"Death at an Early Age\", and then became deeply involved in the civil rights movement. After being fired from Boston Public Schools, he was offered a position to teach at Newton Public Schools, the school district he attended as a child, and taught there for several years before becoming more deeply involved in social justice work and dedicating more time to writing.\n\nKozol has since held two Guggenheim Fellowships, has twice been a fellow of the Rockefeller Foundation, and has also received fellowships from the Field and Ford Foundations.\n\nKozol also has worked in the field of social psychology. He has been working with children in inner-city schools for more than forty years. Kozol is currently on the editorial board of \"Greater Good Magazine\", published by the Greater Good Science Center at the University of California, Berkeley. Kozol's contributions include the interpretation of scientific research into the roots of compassion, altruism, and peaceful human relationships.\n\n\"Death at an Early Age\", his first non-fiction book, is a description of his first year as a teacher in the Boston Public Schools. It was published in 1967 and won the National Book Award in Science, Philosophy and Religion. It has sold more than two million copies in the United States and Europe.\n\nAmong the other books by Kozol are \"Rachel and Her Children: Homeless Families in America\", which received the Robert F. Kennedy Book award for 1989 and the Conscience-in-Media Award of the American Society of Journalists and Authors, and \"Savage Inequalities: Children in America's Schools\", which won the New England Book Award and was a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1992.\n\nHis 1995 book, \"\", described his visits to the South Bronx of New York City, the poorest congressional district in the United States. It received the Anisfield-Wolf Book Award in 1996, an honor previously granted to the works of Langston Hughes and Martin Luther King, Jr..\n\nHe published \"Ordinary Resurrections: Children in the Years of Hope\" in 2000 and \"The Shame of the Nation: The Restoration of Apartheid Schooling in America\" was released September 13, 2005. Kozol documents the continuing and often worsening segregation in public schools in the United States, and the increasing influence of neoconservative ideology on the way children, particularly children of color and poor children of urban areas, are educated.\n\nHe is still active in advocating for integrated public education in the United States and is a critic of the school voucher movement. He continues to condemn the inequalities of education and the apparently worsening segregation of black and Hispanic children from white children in the segregated public schools of almost every major city of the nation. Kozol's ethical argument relies heavily on comparisons between rich and poor school districts. In particular, he analyzes the amount of money spent per child. He finds that in school districts whose taxpayers and property-owners are relatively wealthy, the per-child annual spending is much higher (for example, over $20,000 per year per child in one district) than in school districts where poor people live (for example, $11,000 per year per child in one district). He asks rhetorically whether it is right that the place of one's birth should determine the quality of one's education.\n\nKozol founded The Education Action Fund, which serves as a nonprofit charitable fund that provides direct assistance to many of the children and families profiled in Jonathan’s books. Donations to the EAF go directly towards children and families living in impoverished or racially isolated areas, and often provide a much-needed relief from financial instability.\n\nFor contributions and additional information on the Education Action Fund, see The Education Action Fund On the Contacts Page of Kozol’s website (www.jonathankozol.com).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19012861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19012861", "title": "KPSC (FM)", "text": "KPSC (FM)\n\nKPSC (88.5 FM) is a radio station licensed to serve Palm Springs, California. The station is owned by the University of Southern California, and is a repeater of KUSC and their classical music format.\n\n"}
{"id": "58791139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58791139", "title": "Kangaroo Kids International Preschool", "text": "Kangaroo Kids International Preschool\n\nKangaroo Kids International Preschool (KKIP) is a chain of schools run by the Kangaroo Kids Education Ltd. (KKEL) Mumbai, India. It is India’s largest pre-kindergarten and K12 school chains. The school imparts pre-school education to more than 9,000 students across 79 branches at 20 cities in India, Dubai, and Maldives.\n\nKangaroo Kids International Preschool was established by Lina Ashar in 1993. The first Kangaroo Kids Preschool was started in Bandra in a 650 sq. ft. Mumbai apartment with a small batch of 25 students and presently Kangaroo Kids is a chain of 70 preschools across India as well as in Dubai, Qatar, and the Maldives.\n\nKangaroo Kids Club facilitates action-based learning that focuses on creating a fun-filled learning environment for all students. The sessions are designed to encourage the exploratory side in toddlers and provide multisensory stimulation through visual, auditory and kinesthetic programmes. \nKangaroo Kids Preschool is recognized by mainstream schools as an institution that produces creative, confident and eager learners. The preschools are in the process of developing learning apps for children that will help engage the child with integrating the curriculum.\n\nThe preschool has air-conditioned classrooms, 24 hours CCTV surveillance, reading zone, multi PlayStation with sandpit, toddler play zone, and an audio-visual room with Projector, Splash Pool, Child-friendly washrooms and pantry.\n\n2011:\n2012:\n2013:\n\n2014:\n2015:\n2016:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43036589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43036589", "title": "Kevin Lang", "text": "Kevin Lang\n\nKevin Lang (born February 16, 1955) is a professor of Economics at Boston University. He is also an elected Fellow of the Society of Labor Economists and a Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER). He is the author of \"Poverty and Discrimination\" and over 100 papers and articles on topics in Labor Economics.\n\nLang received his BA in Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) from Oxford University, his MSc in economics from the University of Montreal, and his PhD in economics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1982. He went on to become an assistant professor at the University of California, Irvine, and he spent a year serving as an Olin Foundation Fellow at the NBER. In 1987, he joined the faculty at Boston University, where he served as chair of the economics department from 2005-2009. His recent research has focused on the economics of labor markets and education, including topics such as discrimination, unemployment, the relation between education and earnings, and the relation between housing prices, taxes and local services.\n\nLang lives with his wife, Shulamit Kahn, in Brookline, Massachusetts, where he is also active in local politics. He served as an elected member of the Brookline School Committee from 1999-2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "33854263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33854263", "title": "Management in Education", "text": "Management in Education\n\nManagement in Education (\"MiE\") is a quarterly, peer-reviewed academic journal in the field of educational leadership and management. The journal's editor-in-chief is Jacqueline Baxter, senior lecturer at The Open University. It was established in 1987 and is currently published by SAGE Publications on behalf of the British Educational Leadership, Management & Administration Society.\n\nThe editorial advisory board comprises academics and practitioners from the field of education. \"MiE\" provides a forum for debate and discussion covering all aspects of educational management. Our peer review policy helps to enhance the range and quality of the articles accepted supporting those new to publication and those who are more experienced authors. \"MIE\" is a quarterly international journal that is offered free to members of the Society.\n\nThe journal publishes a range of articles which includes: traditional research articles, opinion pieces, interviews with leading practitioners and academics and news and views about the various special interest groups within BELMAS. It invites contributions by experienced and newer researchers and practitioners.\n\n\"Management in Education\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n\n"}
{"id": "369917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369917", "title": "Matriculation", "text": "Matriculation\n\nMatriculation is the formal process of entering a university, or of becoming eligible to enter by fulfilling certain academic requirements such as a matriculation examination.\n\nMatriculation, often shortened to \"matric\", was formerly the successful completion of 6th Form (Year 12), and was only done by students intending to go on to University. Year 11 was known as the 'Leaving' year, which was the end of high school for the majority of students. In the late 60s and early 70s all states replaced matriculation with either a certificate such as the Higher School Certificate, (HSC) in Victoria and NSW, or a University entrance exam such as the Tertiary Entrance Exam in Western Australia. These have all been renamed (except in NSW) as a State-based certificate, such as the Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) or the Western Australian Certificate of Education (WACE).\n\nIn Bangladesh, the \"Matriculation\" is the Secondary School Examination (SSC) taken at year 10, and the Intermediate Exams is the Higher Secondary Examination (HSC) taken at year 12. Bangladesh, like the rest of [South Asia], still uses terms such as Matriculation Exams and Intermediate Exams taken from the days of the British Raj although in England itself these terms were replaced by 'O' or Ordinary Level Examinations (now called GCSEs) and 'A' or Advanced Level Examinations respectively.\n\nIn Brazilian Portuguese, the word \"matrícula\" refers to the act of enrolling in an educational course, whether it be elementary, high school, college or post-graduate education.\n\nIn Canada, the term is used by some older universities to refer to orientation (\"frosh\") events, however some universities, including University of King's College, still hold formal Matriculation (usually shortened to \"matric\") ceremonies. Trinity College at the University of Toronto also holds formal matriculation ceremonies, during which time incoming students are required to sign a matriculation register, making the practice the closest in format to that conducted by Oxford and Cambridge colleges of any university in North America. The ceremony at King's is quite similar to the matriculation ceremonies held in universities such as Oxford or Cambridge.\nIn Ontario during the era with grade 13, satisfactory completion of grade 12 was considered junior matriculation. Satisfactory completion of grade 13 was senior matriculation. In Nova Scotia, at the present time, Junior matriculation is grade 11 and senior matriculation is completion of grade 12.\n\nAt Charles University in Prague, the oldest and most prestigious university in the Czech Republic, matriculation is held at the Great Hall (Magna Aula). The ceremony is attended by students commencing their studies. It is intended as a demonstration of the adoption of student's duties and obtaining of student's rights. The ceremony itself involves students taking the Matriculation Oath of the University and symbolically touching the Faculty mace and shaking the Dean's hand.\n\nOther Czech universities hold ceremonies similar to the one just described.\n\nIn Denmark, the University of Copenhagen holds a matriculation ceremony each year. The ceremony is held in the Hall of Ceremony in the main building of the University. The ceremony begins with a procession with the rector and the deans in academic dress and other regalia. The ceremony continues with the rector listing the different faculties, after which the different student, shouts when their respective faculty is mentioned. The rector then delivers a speech, after which the rector and the deans leave the ceremony again in procession, after which a party is held on university grounds, to mark the admission of the new students.\n\nIn Finland, Matriculation (Finnish: \"Ylioppilastutkinto\", Swedish: \"Studentexamen\") is the examination taken at the end of Secondary education to qualify for entry into University. The test also constitutes the high school's final exam(s), in other words it is a high school graduation exam. Since 1919, the test has been arranged by a national body, the Matriculation Examination Board. Before that, the administration of the test was the responsibility of the University of Helsinki.\n\nThe German term \"Immatrikulation\" describes the administrative process of enrolling at university as a student. This can happen for winter semester and, depending on the degree program, also for summer semester. It does not involve a ceremony. A prerequisite for matriculation is generally the \"Abitur\", which is the standard matriculation examination in Germany, for regular universities and \"Fachhochschulreife\" for \"Fachhochschulen\" (Universities of Applied Sciences). Both \"Abitur\" and \"Fachhochschulreife\" are school leaving certificates which students receive after passing their final examinations at some types of German secondary schools.\n\nIn Hong Kong, the term is used interchangeably with the completion of sixth-form. After sitting for the Certificate of Education examinations, eligible students receive two years of sixth-form education, upon completion, they sit for the A-level examinations. Most secondary schools offer the sixth-form programme, and there are also a few sixth-form colleges. Students obtaining good grades in the A-level examinations will be admitted to a university. The education reforms of Hong Kong in the 2000s have replaced the fourth- and fifth-form education, which prepared students for the HKCEE, and the sixth-form education with a three-year senior secondary education, which leads to the Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education Examination. The last sixth-form students graduated and took the A-level examinations in 2012; in the same year the first students studying the new senior secondary curriculum graduated and took the first HKDSE examinations.\n\nIn India, it is a term commonly used to refer to the final year of 10th class, which ends at tenth \nBoard (tenth grade), and the qualification consequently received by passing the national board exams or the state board exams, commonly called \"matriculation exams\".\n\nIndia still uses terms such as Matriculation Exams and Intermediate Exams taken from the days of British rule although in England itself these terms were replaced by 'O' or Ordinary Level Examinations (now called GCSEs) and 'A' or Advanced Level Examinations.\n\nEnglish is the standard language for matriculation for science subjects, while regional languages are also an option. Most students who pass matriculation, or class 10, are 15–16 years old. Upon successfully passing, a student may continue onto the Higher secondary school. Most students who pass class 12 are 17–18 years old. The CBSE and ICSE boards conduct twelfth standard courses nationally, while state boards operate at the state-level. Although the basic curriculum is prescribed by the CBSE.\n\nIn Malaysia, Matriculation programmes are run by public universities and the Ministry of Education (MoE). Matriculation programmes offered by public universities offer fewer options for further study upon completion of the said program as they are limited to that particular university.\n\nThe matriculation programme provided by the MoE is a one-year pre-U program sponsored by the Malaysian government. SPM (Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia or the Malaysian Certificate of Education) holders can apply for MoE Matriculation during their SPM year [Form 5]. Students that are offered the matriculation programme will be posted to several Matriculation Colleges within Malaysia.\n\nAfter MoE Matriculation, they can further their studies in local universities within Malaysia. Several universities in New Zealand and UK recognize the MoE Matriculation as a pre-U qualification. Matriculation was introduced after the repeal of the racial based quota for public university admission.\n\nApart from the matriculation programmes, there is the STPM programme ([Sijil Tinggi Pelajaran Malaysia] or Malaysian Higher School Certificate), the standardised national examinations taken by Form 6 students. STPM is different from the matriculation programme in terms of its duration (2 years vs. 1 year), syllabus (breadth and depth), marking method (standardised assessment nationwide vs. assessment by matriculation college itself) and passing rate.\n\nIn Nepal, it refers to the School Leaving Certificate (SLC) before now it is known as Secondary education examination (SEE) (As per new education act 2016) taken at year 10, before Intermediate Exams (Higher Secondary or 10+2) taken in subsequent two years prior to university entry. School leaving certificate (SLC) or Secondary education examination (SEE) is the main examination which is also called \"Iron gate\" in Nepal. Although SLC and 10+2 are widely used, some educational institutions follow the British system with O' or Ordinary Level Examinations (now called GCSE) and A' or Advanced Level Examinations respectively.\n\nIn Pakistan, \"matriculation\" (usually shortened to “matric”) is the term that refers to the final examinations that take place at the end of 9th and 10th grades. These Examinations are usually taken up by students aged 14 to 16 years.\n\nIt results in the issuance of Secondary School Certificate (SSC) or Technical School Certificate (TSC). After the SSC (or TSC), students may proceed for 11th year of education at College. After successful completion of the 11th (HSSC-1) and the 12th (HSSC-2) years in college, they get the Intermediate certificate Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC) and become eligible to enter universities in Pakistan or in other countries. Pakistan still uses terms such as Matriculation Exams and Intermediate Exams taken from the days of British rule, although in England itself these terms were replaced with 'O' or Ordinary Level Examinations (now called GCSEx) and 'A' or Advanced Level Examination.\n\nIn South Africa, \"matriculation\" (usually shortened to \"matric\") is a term commonly used to refer to the final year of high school and the qualification received on graduating from high school (now officially the National Senior Certificate or NSC). Strictly speaking \"matriculation\" refers to the minimum university entrance requirements (usually called a matric exemption as it provides an exemption from writing entrance exams when applying for University entrance).\n\nIn the British universities of Oxford, Cambridge, St Andrews, Edinburgh, Durham, and the New College of the Humanities, the term is used for the ceremony at which new students are entered into the register (in Latin \"matricula\") of the university, at which point they become members of the university. Oxford requires matriculants to wear academic dress with subfusc during the ceremony. At Cambridge and Durham, policy regarding the wearing of academic dress varies amongst the colleges. Separate matriculation ceremonies are held by some of the colleges in Durham. Also at Durham, not all students are entered into the register, but one person from each college is selected to sign their own name for the whole college. At the University of St Andrews as well as the other ancient universities of Scotland, matriculation involves signing the Sponsio Academica, a pledge to abide by university rules and to support the institution. In 2015, Bishop Grosseteste University Lincoln introduced a Matriculation event for all new students.\n\nAt most British universities there is no formal ceremony. The term \"matriculation\" is not used by many, with the terms \"enrolment\" and \"registration\" being more commonly employed to describe the administrative process of becoming a member of the university.\n\nAt Oxford and Cambridge, matriculation was formerly associated with entrance examinations taken before or shortly after matriculation, known as Responsions at Oxford and the Previous Examination at Cambridge, both abolished in 1960. University-wide entrance examinations were subsequently re-introduced at both universities, but abolished in 1995. More limited subject-based tests have since been introduced.\n\nIn the United States, universities and colleges that have a formal matriculation ceremony include: Adrian College, Albion College, Anna Maria College, Asbury University, Assumption College, Belmont Abbey College, Belmont University, Boston College, Boston University, Carnegie Mellon University, The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina, Columbia University, Culver-Stockton College, Dartmouth College, Duquesne University, Hamline University, Harvard University, Jacksonville University in Jacksonville, FL, Kalamazoo College, Kenyon College, Lawrence University, http://lawrence.edu, Lyndon State College, Lyon College, Marietta College, McKendree University, Mount Holyoke College, Mount Union College, Moravian College, Muhlenberg College, Occidental College, Randolph-Macon College, Rice University, Saint Leo University, Scripps College, Trinity College, Tufts University, The University of Saint Mary (Kansas), University of Wisconsin–Baraboo/Sauk County, Virginia Military Institute, Wabash College, Walsh University, Washington and Jefferson College, and Willamette University. Some medical schools highlight matriculation with a white coat ceremony. For example, UAB School of Medicine does so.\n\nAt most universities and colleges in the United States, \"matriculation\" refers to mere enrollment or registration as a student at a university or college by a student intending to earn a degree, an event which involves no special ceremony.\n\nUniversities and colleges in the United States commonly have a category of students known as special students, non-matriculated students or non-matriculating students. Generally these are students who are not merely auditing a class, but receive credit which is potentially transferable, pay full tuition, and often receive benefits that other students receive such as access to facilities and health care. These students typically are enrolled as matriculated students at other institutions and are visiting scholars of some type. However, sometimes students attend classes for the purpose of a standalone non-degree education.\n"}
{"id": "21868040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21868040", "title": "Microlecture", "text": "Microlecture\n\nThe term microlecture is \"not\" used here to refer to microcontent for microlearning, but to actual instructional content that is formatted for online and mobile learning using a constructivist approach. More specifically, as described in the Chronicle of Higher Education, these are approximately 60 second presentations with a specific structure. They are not just brief (one minute) presentations: although Dr. McGrew had success with \"one minute lectures\" at the University of Northern Iowa as did Dr. Kee at the University of Leeds.\n\nDavid M. Penrose (aka the One Minute Professor), an independent instructional designer and eLearning consultant, has articulated the process for creating these microlectures. As stated (Shea, 2009), these specific lectures are combined with specific activities designed to promote the epistemic engagement of the learner. The response of the Higher Education community was mixed, with some positive and some negative.\n\nThe interest surrounding the use of microlectures has continued to grow, even outside of the United States, to places like Hong Kong University, Yantai Nanshai University, Liaoning Police Academy, and East China Normal University. In the United States, the use of microlectures are even considered a vital part of the Pandemic Response Plans. Additionally, even scholars at schools like Princeton University (Humanities Resource Center), UNC's School of Government, Humboldt State University, University of West Florida, and University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign support the importance of an innovative teaching-learning approach for learners in the 21st century.\n\nThe popularity of the microlectures has been the focus of a recent (November 1, 2012) EDUCAUSE resource, the Educause Learning Initiative \"7 Things You Should Know About\" series. The EDUCAUSE series is published monthly and dates back to May 1, 2005. In each issue, the focus addresses seven basic questions ...\nWhat is it?<br>\nHow does it work?<br>\nWho's doing it?<br>\nWhy is it significant?<br>\nWhat are the downsides?<br>\nWhere is it going?<br>\nWhat are the implications for higher education?<br>\nIt is appropriate to include a quote by Xueqin Lu of Wuhan Textile University (2015) \"... we can conclude micro-lectures focus on delivery of topics, show cutting-edge updating of knowledge and provide insight, vision and careful management for students.\".\n"}
{"id": "3341814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3341814", "title": "National Center for Family Literacy", "text": "National Center for Family Literacy\n\nThe National Center for Families Learning (NCFL) (formally known as the National Center for Family Literacy) is an organization set up to create educational and economic opportunity for the most at-risk children and parents in the United States.\n\nNCFL is a national nonprofit organization with a mission to help parents and children learn together. Since 1989, more than 1 million families have made education and economic progress as a result of NCFL's work. NCFL pioneers family literacy models, and approaches that improve the lives of the nation's at-risk children and families.\n\nNCFL works with administrators, policy makers, practitioners and funders to:\n\nThe National Center for Families Learning partners with Better World Books, Toyota, and other reputable literacy advocates to help fund its many initiatives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41891970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41891970", "title": "National Institute of Textile Engineering and Research", "text": "National Institute of Textile Engineering and Research\n\nNational Institute of Textile Engineering and Research () is also known as NITER. Located in Savar, Dhaka District, it is the largest undergraduate textile campus in Bangladesh. It offers the Bachelor of Science in Textile Engineering, Industrial and Production Engineering and Fashion & Apparel Design in co-ordination with the University of Dhaka. The institute has a partnership between the Bangladesh Textile Mills Association (BTMA) and the Ministry of Textiles and Jute. It is a public-private partnership constituent educational institution under University of Dhaka.\n\nNITER was originally a training center, Textile Industry Development Center (TIDC), a public institution which was established in January 1979 by the government of Bangladesh to impart training for professionals engaged in the textile manufacturing industry. In 1994, its name changed to National Institute of Textile Training Research and Design (NITTRAD). Later, the Ministry of Textiles and Jute decided to run NITTRAD under public–private partnership (PPP) program and handed over its operational management to Bangladesh Textile Mills Association (BTMA) under the Ministry of Textiles and Jute. From 1 January 2013, the Ministry of Textiles and Jute, according to a suggestion from the University of Dhaka, changed the name of the Institute to National Institute of Textile Engineering and Research.\nFrom 2010 to 2011 session NITER started Bachelor of Science in Textile engineering course under the University of Dhaka.\n\nIt also provides practical and training classes of textile engineering to students of private universities in Bangladesh.\nNITER is located on around 14 acres of land with a built up area of 1,29,995 square feet at Nayarhat of savar,on the Dhaka-aricha highway and enjoys excellent communication facilities connecting Dhaka and other important cities and towns of Bangladesh.\nThere are two large building, Academic building & QC building for educational purpose. NITER has also a big playground. There is also a canteen in the campus.\n\nThere are two hall building for male and also two hall building for female student. For officers and stuffs there is also a resident building. NITER provides 100% accommodation for female students.\n\n\nNITER will launch following Programmes soon:\n\nThe medium of Instruction will be English for all the undergraduate and post-graduate courses.\n\n\nA student must have to attend the admission test given by Technology Unit of University of Dhaka to get admitted into udergraduate programme. A candidate must have passed the H.S.C examination with Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics as compulsory subject. For admission details visit here\n\nThere are twelve workshops and laboratories in NITER.\n\nNITER has academic and research collaboration with following institutes:\n\n"}
{"id": "401551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401551", "title": "National Space Centre", "text": "National Space Centre\n\nThe National Space Centre is a museum and educational resource covering the fields of space science and astronomy, along with a space research programme in partnership with the University of Leicester. It is located on the north side the city of Leicester, England, next to the River Soar. Many of the exhibits, including upright rockets, are housed in a tower with minimal steel supports and a semi-transparent cladding of ETFE 'pillows' which has become one of Leicester's most recognisable landmarks.\n\nThe building was designed by Nicholas Grimshaw, and it opened to the public on 30 June 2001. The tower is tall and claims to be the only place to house upright space rockets indoors.\n\nThe centre arose from a partnership between the University of Leicester's Space Research Centre and local government agencies. The total project cost was £52m, £26m of which came from a Millennium Commission grant, and the rest from private sector sponsors. It is run as an educational charity, and offers science workshops for school children of all ages.\n\nThe National Space Centre currently has post-doctoral science researchers based at the University of Leicester's Space Research Centre (SRC) and the University of Nottingham's Institute of Engineering Surveying and Space Geodesy (IESSG).\n\nThe Centre has on display one of only three known Soyuz spacecraft in the West (there is one in France at the Cité de l'espace and another one in the United States at the Smithsonian Institution as part of their Apollo-Soyuz Test Project display).\n\nThe centre has six main galleries of exhibits and visitor activities covering space flight, astronomy and cosmology. The attraction also includes a Digistar 3 dome cinema and planetarium, a gift shop and a restaurant. The restaurant is situated beneath the two nozzles of the Blue Streak and PGM-17 Thor rockets.\n\nThe Centre's own digital visualisation team, NSC Creative, make all the \"fulldome\" planetarium shows shown at the Centre. By 2011, NSC Creative fulldome shows are playing in over 220 planetaria in 27 countries worldwide. These productions include the official International Year of Astronomy (IYA2009) planetarium show \"We are Astronomers\" which was funded by the UK Science and Technology Facilities Council (STFC).\n\nThe failed Beagle 2 Mars spacecraft was controlled from the centre's Landing Operations Control Centre. UK Government's official Near-Earth object (NEO) Information Centre is also based at the centre.\n\n\nIn 2007, the National Space Centre celebrated \"50 Years in Space\": the anniversary of the first satellite, Sputnik.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25948712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25948712", "title": "Official languages of the United Nations", "text": "Official languages of the United Nations\n\nThe official languages of the United Nations are the six languages that are used in UN meetings, and in which all official UN documents are written. In alphabetical order, they are:\n\n\nThese languages are used at meetings of various UN organs, particularly the General Assembly (Article 51 of its Rules of Procedure), the Economic and Social Council, and the Security Council (Article 41 of its Rules of Procedure). Each representative of a country may speak in any one of these six languages, or may speak in any language and provide interpretation into one of the six official languages. The UN provides simultaneous interpretation from the official language into the other five official languages, via the United Nations Interpretation Service.\n\nThe six official languages are also used for the dissemination of official documents. Generally, the texts in each of the six languages are equally authoritative.\n\nThe United Nations has drawn criticism for relying too heavily on English, and not enough on the other five official languages. Spanish-speaking member nations formally brought this to the attention of the Secretary-General in 2001. Secretary-General Kofi Annan then responded that full parity of the six official languages was unachievable within current budgetary restraints, but he nevertheless attached great importance to improving the linguistic balance. In 2008 and 2009, resolutions of the General Assembly have urged the Secretariat to respect the parity of the six official languages, especially in the dissemination of public information.\n\nOn 8 June 2007, resolutions concerning human resources management at the UN, the General Assembly had emphasized \"the paramount importance of the equality of the six official languages of the United Nations\" and requested that the Secretary-General \"ensure that vacancy announcements specified the need for either of the working languages of the Secretariat, unless the functions of the post required a specific working language\".\n\nThe Secretary-General's most recent report on multilingualism was issued on 4 October 2010. In response, on 19 July 2011, the General Assembly adopted Resolution No. A/RES/65/311 on multilingualism, calling on the Secretary-General, once again, to ensure that all six official languages are given equally favourable working conditions and resources. The resolution noted with concern that the multilingual development of the UN website had improved at a much slower rate than expected.\n\nThe six official languages spoken at the UN are the first or second language of 2.8 billion people on the planet, less than half of the world population. The six languages are official languages in more than half the countries in the world (about one hundred).\n\nThe Charter of the United Nations, its 1945 constituent document, did not expressly provide for official languages of the UN. The Charter was enacted in five languages (Chinese, French, Russian, English, and Spanish) and provided (in Article 111) that the five texts are equally authoritative.\n\nIn 1946, the first session of the United Nations General Assembly adopted rules of procedure concerning languages that purported to apply to \"all the organs of the United Nations, other than the International Court of Justice\", setting out five official languages and two working languages (English and French).\n\nThe following year, the second session of the General Assembly adopted permanent rules of procedure, Resolution 173 (II). The part of those rules relating to language closely followed the 1946 rules, except that the 1947 rules did not purport to apply to other UN organs, just the General Assembly.\n\nMeanwhile, a proposal had been in the works to add Spanish as a third working language in addition to English and French. This was adopted in Resolution 262 (III), passed on 11 December 1948.\n\nIn 1968, Russian was added as a working language of the General Assembly so that, of the GA's five official languages, four (all but Chinese) were working.\n\nIn 1973, the General Assembly made Chinese a working language and added Arabic as both an official language and working language of the GA. Thus all six official languages were also working languages. Arabic was made an official and working language of \"the General Assembly and its Main Committees\", whereas the other five languages had status in all GA committees and subcommittees (not just the main committees). The Arab members of the UN had agreed to pay the costs of implementing the resolution, for three years.\n\nIn 1980, the General Assembly got rid of this final distinction, making Arabic an official and working language of all its committees and subcommittees, as of 1 January 1982. At the same time, the GA requested the Security Council to include Arabic among its official and working languages, and the Economic and Social Council to include Arabic among its official languages, by 1 January 1983.\n\nAs of 1983, the Security Council (like the General Assembly) recognized six official and working languages: Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian, and Spanish.\n\nIn the Economic and Social Council, as of 1992, there were six official languages (Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish) of which three were working languages (English, French, and Spanish). Later, Arabic, Chinese, and Russian were added as working languages in the Economic and Social Council.\n\nIn 1996, the Universal Declaration of Linguistic Rights was presented to UNESCO but has yet to be officially ratified. Many international linguistics still expect that the UN will eventually add new official languages such as Hindi, Swahili, and Malay to represent Asian and African populations and put more resources into assisting endangered languages. \n\nIn 2002, it was reportedly proposed to the then current UN Secretary General Kofi Annan that the UN develops a 'Semi-Official' or 'Regional' language status for commonly spoken languages that do not have Official status so that a higher percentage of the worlds population could be familiar with UN actions. As of 2006, the six official languages are the first or second language of 2.8 billion people on the planet, which is less than half of the world population. The list of potential 'Semi-Official' or 'Regional' languages, many of which can be considered lingua francas in their areas, could include: Amharic, Bengali, Burmese, Cantonese, Chichewa, Fula, German, Gujarati, Hausa, Hindi, Igbo, Indonesian, Italian, Japanese, Javanese, Kannada, Korean, Lingala, Malay, Marathi, Oromo, Pashto, Persian, Portuguese, Punjabi, Shanghaiese, Shona, Swahili, Tagalog, Tamil, Telugu, Thai, Turkish, Vietnamese, Urdu, Yoruba, Zulu, International Sign Language, International Braille, and possibly an international auxiliary language such as Esperanto, Ido, or Interlingua. As of 2017, the UN has taken no public action to approve a \"Semi-Official\" or \"Regional\" status mainly due to expected translation costs.\n\nSince the late 1990's and increasingly in the 2000's, there has been much discussion of adding Hindi, Portuguese, Swahili, Malay and to a lesser extent, Turkish, Bengali, or other languages as additional official languages. The most recent example being when the Deputy Secretary General was asked in January 2018 about the process of adding Hindi as an official language. Most proposed languages are spoken in more than one nation and/or have a large number of speakers. \n\nAs of June 2018, the media branch of the United Nations, UN News (https://news.un.org/), includes website translations into Portuguese and Swahili in addition to the 6 official languages. Other UN documents and websites are already translated into Bengali (referred to as Bangla), Hindi, Urdu, Malay, French Creole, Portuguese, and Swahili but not on an official or consistent basis.\n\nBengali is one of the most widely spoken languages in the world, ranking seventh, with over 240 million speakers. In April 2009, Prime Minister of Bangladesh Sheikh Hasina argued in front of the United Nations General Assembly that the Bengali language should be made one of the official languages of the UN. This was backed by a resolution adopted unanimously by the assembly of the Indian state of West Bengal in December, and support was also given by the states of Assam and Tripura.\n\nHindi is one of the official languages of India and Fiji and is also spoken in Suriname, Mauritius, Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana. It is mutually intelligible to a high degree with Urdu which is spoken in Pakistan and together they are often considered the same language, referred to as Hindustani or Hindi-Urdu. Although very similar verbally, they do have different written scripts; Hindi is written in the Devanagari script and Urdu is written in the Nastaʿlīq script. Hindi has more than 550 million speakers in India alone, of whom 422 million are native, 98.2 million are second language speakers, and 31.2 million are third language speakers. Hindi is the lingua franca of the majority of Indians in the subcontinent, along with Pakistan (as Urdu), Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Nepal, with its importance as a global language increasing day by day. Hindi is the fourth most-spoken first language in the world, after Mandarin, Spanish and English.\n\nIn 2007, it was reported that the government would \"make immediate diplomatic moves to seek the status of an official language for Hindi at the United Nations\". According to a 2009 press release from its Ministry of External Affairs, the Government of India has been \"working actively\" to have Hindi recognized as an official language of the UN. In 2015, Nepal's Vice President Parmananda Jha stated his firm support for the inclusion of Hindi as an official language of the UN.\n\nBecause of the linguistic diversity in India, the expansion of Hindi has become political and has led to a rise of English in the post-British colonial period. This is why English is included along with Hindi on Indian passports. If the Indian government is able to grant more federal-level protection for other languages such as Bengali, Gujarati, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu, as a compromise then the UN may be more likely to grant a vote on adding Hindi as an official language. But as of now, the international community does not seem to see enough benefit to overcome the potential political issues that adding Hindi as official language of the UN could cause. \n\nMalay is an Austronesian language spoken throughout the Malay Peninsula and large swaths of Southeast Asia. Malay is an official language of Malaysia, Brunei, Indonesia (which is the 4th most populous nation in the world), Singapore, East Timor, Christmas Island, Cocos Islands and is a recognized minority language in Thailand where is it spoken in the Narathiwat, Yala, and Pattani regions, and the Philippines where it is spoken in the Zamboanga Peninsula, the Sulu Archipelago, and Bataraza and Balabac in Palawan. \n\nSpoken by more than 280 million people, Malay is considered the 7th most commonly spoken language by Ethnologue 2017. Malay has several names depending on the local vernacular designation, for example it is referred to as Bahasa Melayu in Malaysia, Bahasa Indonesia in Indonesia and Kelantan-Pattani Malay in Thailand. The level of mutual intelligibility between these standards is debated. Having Malay as an official language of the UN would expand its presence into Asia which is growing rapidly. Malay is also prominent on the internet as the Malay language has the sixth most Internet users of all languages.\n\nMany Lusophones have advocated for greater recognition of their language, being the sixth most spoken language in the world and spread across four continents: Portugal in Europe; Brazil (the largest lusophone nation) in South America; Angola, Mozambique, Cape Verde, Guinea-Bissau, São Tomé and Príncipe in Africa; and in Asia, Timor-Leste and Macau. Portuguese is still spoken by a few thousand people in the former Portuguese colonies of Goa and Daman and Diu in India, and is an official language in nine countries.\n\nIn 2008, the President of Portugal announced that the then eight leaders of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries (CPLP) had agreed to take the necessary steps to make Portuguese an official language. This followed a decision by Portugal's legislators to adopt a standardization of Portuguese spelling. The media branch of the UN, UN News, already includes translations into Portuguese.\n\nSwahili is a lingua franca throughout eastern Africa and is especially prevalent in the African Great Lakes region. Swahili, known as Kiswahili by its speakers, is an official language of Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, and the Democratic Republic of Congo, is an official language of the African Union and is officially recognised as a lingua franca of the East African Community. It is one of the most commonly spoken languages in Africa, is a compulsory subject in all Kenyan schools and is increasingly being used in eastern Burundi and northern Mozambique.\n\nWith between 50 – 100 million speakers, Swahili is lexiconically similar to other eastern Bantu languages such as Comorian which have differing levels of mutual intelligibility. Swahili is already used unofficially in many UN organizations as the United Nations Office at Nairobi, one of the four major UN global offices (in addition to offices in New York City, Vienna, and Geneva), is located in Nairobi, Kenya. The media branch of the UN, UN News (https://news.un.org/), already includes translations into Swahili.\n\nIn September 2011, during a meeting with UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan expressed a desire to see Turkish become an official UN language. Turkic family languages, among which there is high mutual intelligibility, are spoken in Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Northern Cyprus, Iran, China, Russia, and Afghanistan.\n\nIn a 1999 resolution, the General Assembly requested the Secretary-General to \"appoint a senior Secretariat official as coordinator of questions relating to multilingualism throughout the Secretariat\".\n\nThe first such coordinator was Federico Riesco of Chile, appointed on 6 September 2000.\n\nFollowing Riesco's retirement, Miles Stoby of Guyana was appointed Coordinator for Multilingualism, effective 6 September 2001.\n\nIn 2003, Secretary-General Kofi Annan appointed Shashi Tharoor of India as Coordinator for Multilingualism. This responsibility was in addition to Tharoor's role as Under-Secretary-General for Communications and Public Information, head of the Department of Public Information.\n\nThe current coordinator for multilingualism is Catherine Pollard of Guyana. She replaces Kiyo Akasaka of Japan, who was also Under-Secretary-General for Communications and Public Information.\n\nIn 2010, the UN's Department of Public Information announced an initiative of six \"language days\" to be observed throughout the year, one for each official language, with the goal of celebrating linguistic diversity and learning about the importance of cross-cultural communication. The days and their historical significance are:\n\nUN independent agencies have their own sets of official languages that sometimes are different from that of the principal UN organs. For example, the General Conference of UNESCO has nine official languages including Hindi, Italian, and Portuguese. The Universal Postal Union has just one official language, French. IFAD has four official languages: Arabic, English, French, and Spanish.\nThe next largest international grouping after the UN is the Commonwealth of Nations which is exclusively English speaking. All other international bodies in commerce, transport and sport have tended to the adoption of one or a few languages as the means of communication. This is usually English, closely followed by French (see: list of international organisations which have French as an official language). Regional groups have adopted what is common to other elements of their ethnic or religious background. Standard Arabic is usually adopted across Muslim nation groups. Most of non-Arab Africa is either Francophone or Anglophone because of their imperial past, but there is also a lusophone grouping of countries for the same reason.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9173607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9173607", "title": "Peggy Spencer", "text": "Peggy Spencer\n\nMargaret Ann \"Peggy\" Spencer MBE (née Hull; 24 September 1920 – 25 May 2016) was a British professional ballroom dancer, choreographer, competition adjudicator, and organizer. \n\nPeggy married Jack Spencer in 1940, and had two children, Helena and Michael. The marriage was not successful and they divorced in 1947. Peggy formed a close relationship with her brother-in-law Frank, whom she eventually married in the late 1960s.\n\nFor many years, she and Frank (a musician and a dancer before the Second World War) ran the Royston Ballroom in Penge, South London. Peggy was a regular TV dance commentator. She was a leading coach for competitive Latin dancers, and was influential in both Ballroom and Latin American branches of the ISTD. Her ballroom formation team was twice invited to dance for the Queen at Buckingham Palace. For 40 years, her teams appeared in the \"Come Dancing\" TV programme.\n\nPeggy choreographed a dance sequence for a Beatles video (\"Your Mother Should Know\"), and the tango for Rudolph Nureyev in the film \"Valentino\" (1977). She was a choreographer for the \"Burn the Floor\" dance show, which combined ballroom dances with modern ideas. More than most things she enjoyed appearing on the BBC's children's show \"Blue Peter\", where she brought young dancers from her classes to demonstrate. She was the subject of the TV show \"This Is Your Life\" in 1993.\n\nIn 2004. Peggy Spencer became President of the Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing. She received multiple awards for her work in teaching and adjudicating in ballroom dancing, including eight Carl Alan Awards. She and Frank were both appointed MBE in 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "4791310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4791310", "title": "Peter Gray (psychologist)", "text": "Peter Gray (psychologist)\n\ncodice_1\n\nPeter Gray (born 1944) is an American researcher and scholar who is a research professor of psychology at Boston College. He is the author of a widely used introductory psychology textbook, \"Psychology\" (Worth Publishers, with co-author David Bjorklund beginning with the 7th edition), now in its seventh edition. The book broke new ground when the first edition was published (in 1991) as the first general introductory psychology textbook that brought a Darwinian perspective to the entire field. He is also author of \"Free to Learn: Why Unleashing the Instinct to Play Will Make Our Children Happier, More Self-Reliant, and Better Students for Life\" (Basic Books, 2013), and he writes a popular blog for \"Psychology Today\" magazine entitled \"Freedom to Learn\".\n\nGray is a well-known critic of standard educational systems and is frequently invited to speak to groups of educators, parents, and researchers about children's needs for free play, the psychological damage inflicted on children through our present methods of schooling, and the ways in which children are designed, by natural selection, to control their own education. He is a founder and current board president of the Alliance for Self-Directed Education, which is dedicated to promoting opportunities for Self-Directed Education for children and teenagers as replacement for coercive schooling. He is also a founder and board member of Let Grow, which is dedicated to renewing children’s freedom to play and explore, outdoors, in public spaces, without continuous adult supervision.\n\nPeter Gray graduated in 1962 from Cabot School in Cabot, Vermont. He then majored in psychology at Columbia College in New York City and graduated \"magna cum laude\". His experiences working at camps and recreation centers in high school and college helped to shape his future academic interests in play and child development. He received his Ph.D. in biological sciences from the Rockefeller University in 1972, and, in that same year, joined the Psychology Department at Boston College. There he moved up the ranks from Assistant to Associate to Full Professor, serving at various times as department chair, director of the undergraduate program, and director of the graduate program. In 2002 he retired from his teaching position and accepted the appointment he now holds, as research professor.\n\nGray's research publications span a wide range. Although he is generally known as an evolutionary psychology theorist/researcher, he has conducted and published research in neuroendocrinology, animal behavior, developmental psychology, anthropology, and education. He is most well known for his research concerned with children's natural ways of learning and the role of play in children's development.\n\n"}
{"id": "3843131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3843131", "title": "Pghbridges.com", "text": "Pghbridges.com\n\nPghbridges.com is a reference site created by Bruce S. Cridlebaugh. Formally titled Bridges and Tunnels of Allegheny County and Pittsburgh, PA, pghbridges.com has information on many of the structures of the Pittsburgh area. It includes detailed histories and photographs for hundreds of bridges, although since there are over 2000 bridges in the area with a span of at least 6 feet, not all are included. Coverage is based on historical, architectural, or engineering significance.\n\nFor many of the bridge articles, Cridlebaugh has searched HAER documentation, and where there was a writeup or report in .tif format, has done the OCR to convert it to text, and made the text available at the site.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6369052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6369052", "title": "Primož Jakopin", "text": "Primož Jakopin\n\nPrimož Jakopin (pron. Premozh Yacopeen), born 30 June 1949 is a Slovenian computer scientist, known for his work in the field of language technology and his contribution to speleology.\n\nJakopin was born in 1949 in Ljubljana, Slovenia. The family lived in the village of Leskovec pri Krškem, Dolenjska region and in 1956 moved to Ljubljana.\n\nAfter a degree in technical mathematics (\"Numerično računanje singularnih integralov\" / \"Numerical Computation of Singular Integrals\") at the University of Ljubljana in 1972, he obtained a master's degree in information sciences with the thesis \"Entropija imena i prezimena u Sloveniji\" / \"On entropy of first names and last names in Slovenia\" at the University of Zagreb in 1981 and in 1999 a Ph.D. with the thesis \"Zgornja meja entropije pri leposlovnih besedilih v slovenskem jeziku\" / \"Upper Bound of Entropy in Slovenian Literary Texts\", again at the University of Ljubljana.\n\nHe was a senior lecturer at the Department of Comparative and General Linguistics, Faculty of Arts, University of Ljubljana. His subjects of instruction are language technologies with stress on Lemmatisation. From 2001 to 2012 he was the Head of the Corpus Laboratory at the Fran Ramovš Institute of Slovenian Language (within the Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts). He participated in a number of European projects on language resources.\n\nHis major pieces of software: IBIS for the Digital DEC 10 mainframe computer, 1981, INES for the Sinclair ZX Spectrum microcomputer, 1985, STEVE (ATARI ST, 1987-1992), EVA for DOS, 1992- and Microsoft Windows family of operating systems, 1996-, NEVA - Windows server search engine, 1999-. From 1992 to 1994 he supervised the transfer of the Standard Slovenian Dictionary (SSKJ) from printed to electronic version (EVA OCR, DOS version). In 1997 he wrote the first part-of-speech tagger for Slovenian texts. In 1999 he started an Internet text corpus, with a concordance service and linked wordform and reversed wordform frequency dictionaries. It is now available as Nova beseda (\"New word\").\n\nIn high school, he read the book \"Kraški svet in njegovi pojavi\" / \"Karst world and its phenomena\" by Pavel Kunaver and especially because of its photographs by Bogumil Brinšek, Jakopin became interested in speleology. In 1966 he joined the Društvo za raziskovanje jam Ljubljana / Ljubljana cave exploration society to learn more about caves and to participate in exploration of new caves. As a mathematician he was particularly interested in the principal cave size parameters, calculated from the cave survey, length and depth. They are closely related to the definition of a cave as a hollow underground formation, large enough for human exploration, and are used to compare and classify caves, for instance in the List of longest caves and in the List of deepest caves. Whereas the cave depth is well defined as the difference between the highest point and the lowest point of the cave, its length, usually given as the sum of distances between the survey stations on the cave floor, involves considerable arbitrariness. In cave science it was long known that the cave length does not represent the cave size properly as caves are 3D objects with volume as their main and most noticeable feature, yet volume was less used because of the lack of a suitable measurement method. In 1972, at the 6th Yugoslavian congress of speleology, Jakopin proposed volume as the main cave parameter in the paper \"O numeričnem vrednotenju kraških objektov\" / \"Numerical Valuation of Objects on Karst\", measured from a computer-based cave model.\n\nIn 1974 he made a 3D model for approximation of cave space, based on a series of connected polygonal cross sections and used it to make a 3D survey of Skednena jama cave, a fossil ponor at the northern rim of the Planinsko polje karst field in Slovenia. By 1979 he developed a computer program to support the 3D model, to compute its vertice coordinates and to calculate the model (and cave) parameters: length, surface and volume. In 1981 Jakopin published the results for Skednena jama cave in the paper \"Macrostereological Evaluation of Cave Space\". The model had 305 vertices, 51 cross sections, total length was 205 m, surface area 8900 m and volume 6.500 m with error estimated at below 5%. \nEarly in 1981 a larger cave, Mačkovica, located in the same area as Skednena jama cave, was surveyed. Here the model consisted of 106 cross sections and 709 vertices for the length of 650 m and volume of 38.800 m. Volume error was estimated at below 2%.\n\nAfter microcomputers became widely available in the early eighties Jakopin developed a different method of volume calculation which could be performed with much less computing power. Instead of computing cave model segment parameters by cutting it iteratively into ever thinner parallel slices it was based on breaking up every segment into a series of tetrahedrons, the parameters of which can be computed directly. He implemented the updated model on a Sinclair ZX Spectrum personal home computer. In 1982 a team, lead by Jakopin, made the survey of a 450 m long section of Postojnska jama cave, from the Concert Hall to the end of the Great Mountain, and the model yielded the volume of 313.000 m In 1984 Daniel Rojšek and his team measured a 54 m long segment of the Martel's Hall at the end of Škocjanske jame caves with the \nvolume of 220.000 m, one tenth of the recently computed entire hall volume (2.200.000 m). It is comparable in size to other large underground chambers.\n\nHis father Franc Jakopin was a Slovenian slavist, lexicographer and onomatologist his mother Gitica Jakopin was a translator, writer and a poet, his brother Japec Jakopin is a yacht concept designer and his brother Jernej Jakopin is a naval architect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41872647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41872647", "title": "Registry of Research Data Repositories", "text": "Registry of Research Data Repositories\n\nThe Registry of Research Data Repositories (re3data.org) is an Open Science tool that offers researchers, funding organizations, libraries and publishers an overview of existing international repositories for research data.\n\nre3data.org is a global registry of research data repositories from all academic disciplines. It provides an overview of existing research data repositories in order to help researchers to identify a suitable repository for their data and thus comply with requirements set out in data policies.\nThe registry was officially launched in May 2013.\n\nIn March 2014 the registry lists 634 research data repositories from around the world covering all academic disciplines. 586 of these are described in detail using the re3data.org schema.\nThe project makes all metadata in the registry available for open use under the Creative Commons deed CC0.\n\nThe majority of the listed research data repositories are described in detail by a comprehensive schema, namely the re3data.org Schema for the Description of Research Data Repositories.\nInformation icons support researchers to identify an adequate repository for the storage and reuse of their data.\n\nA repository is indexed when the minimum requirements for inclusion in re3data.org are met: the repository has to be run by a legal entity, such as a sustainable institution (e.g. library, university) and clearly state access conditions to the data and repository as well as the terms of use. Additionally, an English graphical user interface (GUI) plus a focus on research data is needed.\n\nre3data.org is a joint project of the Berlin School of Library and Information Science, the GFZ German Research Centre for Geosciences and the Library of the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT). The project is funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG).\nThe project cooperates with other Open Science initiatives like Databib, BioSharing, DataCite and OpenAIRE. Several publishers, research institutions and funders refer to re3data.org in their Editorial Policies and guidelines as a tool for the identification of suitable data repositories, e.g. Nature, Springer and the European Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55883587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55883587", "title": "Resistance to diversity efforts in organizations", "text": "Resistance to diversity efforts in organizations\n\nResistance (also referred to as backlash) to diversity efforts in organizations is a well-established and ubiquitous phenomenon that may be characterized by thoughts, feelings, or behaviors that undermine the success of diversity-related organizational change initiatives to recruit or retain diverse personnel. The use of such initiatives may be referred to as diversity management. Scholars note the presence of resistance to diversity before and after the civil rights movement; as pressures for diversity and social change increased in the 1960s, dominant group members (i.e. Whites) faced workplace concerns over displacement by minorities.\n\nIn the workforce, resistance to diversity is often studied as resistance to organizational change, which can be construed as hostile and intentional, as well as a subtler occurrence. Some scholars have deemed the \"resistance perspective\" as reactive, highlighting psychological and behavioral consequences such as denial, avoidance, defiance or manipulation that serve to maintain the status quo. Other scholars define resistance to diversity as the behavior of both individuals and organizations that may undermine diversity-driven opportunities for \"learning and effectiveness\", whether intentional or not.\n\nResearch on resistance to diversity has revealed insight into resistors and under which circumstances they resist. Focusing on resistance from the dominant, non-minority group, some have linked diversity resistance to White male backlash or straight, white, American male (SWAM) backlash, although the research may focus on the study of resistance from Whites \"or\" men in the context of the research question.\n\nResearch has documented that some Whites may be resisting the diversity messages of multiculturalism-based ideologies that embrace ethnic differences between groups or colorblind-based ideologies that ignore the ethnic differences between groups—common ideological options for managing diversity in the workforce. Other research found members of high-status groups (i.e. Whites) reacted adversely to pro-diversity organizational messages when compared with non-Whites. This research found White people experience heightened threat in response to pro-diversity messages, and that this threat manifests in physiological (cardiovascular reactions), psychological (self-disclosed concerns), and behavioral (making poorer impressions) domains.\n\nResearchers have observed some men will resist gender diversity under certain conditions; the researchers presented men in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) with information that diversity initiatives will effectively increase female representation, which led to resistance among men who believed there is legitimacy to men best-representing STEM (i.e. prototypicality legitimacy) and those who also had concerns about losing the ability to best represent STEM (prototypicality threat).\n\nIn 2017, attention was given to the technology industry in light of James Damore's document \"Google's Ideological Echo Chamber\", which went viral as a prominent example of perceived \"anti-diversity\" attitudes. The document says Google's current diversity initiatives discriminate against dominant group members (i.e. Whites and males) and foster tension within the organization. In 2016, it was reported that Intel's CEO was threatened in response to his diversity efforts, and Facebook's CEO faced challenges with what he considered the malicious behavior of his employees replacing a \"black lives matter\" message with an \"all lives matter\" message.\n\nScholars and other commentators have also highlighted media-covered examples of resistance to diversity outside of technology, including a Texaco racial discrimination suit in which top-level executives were accused of creating a hostile climate for their diverse employees and were recorded on tape using racial slurs, and the Southern Company racial discrimination lawsuit that included popularized reports of nooses displayed in the facilities.\n\nSome scholars propose that resistance to diversity can generally be understood to be a result of evolved cognitive processes that impact relations between different groups in society. They point to a disconnect between the once-adaptive way humans evolved sensitivity to group differences (e.g. \"us\" versus \"them\" tribal boundaries) and some current social environments that contain unprecedented levels of diversity. They propose resistance to diversity may stem from the conflict between automatic social categorization and modern heterogeneous social environments.\n\nAs companies attempt to grow diverse workforces and train them to work harmoniously, research suggests minority group progress may induce a threat response from those in the majority group. Researchers Major and Kaiser argue these types of diversity initiatives jeopardize status hierarchies and that this status instability produces threat, even within well-meaning, \"prodiversity\" progressives.\n\nRacial progress has been shown to negatively impact Whites' self-worth; Whites may buffer this impact by perceiving anti-white bias (i.e. racial discounting). Similarly, researchers have observed increases in social identity threat among men who discuss the instability of men's high status (i.e. changing gender-status relations) with women's.\n\nAnother possible threat-related mechanism that could underlie resistance to diversity is prototypicality threat, or the threat that one's sub-group will no longer best represent the broader, superordinate group.\n\nAlthough multicultural ideology is commonly used in workplaces, research suggests White individuals may associate multiculturalism with exclusion and may not readily associate multiculturalism with conceptions of the self. This program of research also found the degree to which Whites feel included, relative to minorities, can help explain racial differences in diversity endorsement. Plaut \"et al\" suggest socially contextualized cues to inclusion or exclusion can meaningfully impact resistance to diversity.\n\nIn response to the association between multiculturalism and feelings of exclusion among members of dominant groups, scholars have called for the use of All-Inclusive Multiculturalism (AIM), or multiculturalism that explicitly includes the dominant group. These researchers noted that whether non-minorities are included or excluded in an article about multiculturalism can implicitly influence their inclusionary associations with the ideology.\n\nCommentators and scholars have speculated that diversity training may itself be creating backlash because employees may feel uncomfortable in training environments or resent being told what to do. When examining the sources of resistance to diversity efforts, researchers have said organizations often use negative, legal-focused deterrents within bias training, designate diversity training as mandatory, and associated the training with corrective action for \"problem groups\".\n\nConsistent with this thinking, researchers documented evidence of a \"counter-response\" (i.e. rebellion/defiance) when administering brochures or priming participants with controlling conceptualizations of prejudice-reduction, compared with autonomy-supporting conceptualizations. The controlling conceptualizations focused on the need to reduce prejudice and comply with norms of non-prejudice, whereas the autonomy-supporting conceptualizations focused on drawing attention to the choice and personal value involved in non-prejudice. Finding negative outcomes associated with the controlling conditions, they said common organizational efforts to reduce prejudice via control may be unintentionally increasing resistance.\n\nResearch on resistance to diversity has revealed implications and suggestions for those hoping to address potential, current, or possible resistance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6587776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6587776", "title": "Robert S. Kaplan", "text": "Robert S. Kaplan\n\nRobert Samuel Kaplan (born 1940) is an American accounting academic, and Emeritus Professor of Leadership Development at the Harvard Business School, known as co-creator, together with David P. Norton, of the Balanced Scorecard. \n\nKaplan obtained his BS in Electrical Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he also obtained his MS in Electrical Engineering. For his graduate studies he moved to the Cornell University, where he obtained his PhD in Operations Research. Since the 1990s he has been awarded honorary doctorates by the University of Stuttgart in 1994, the University of Lodz in 2006, and the University of Waterloo in 2008.\n\nKaplan joined the HBS faculty in 1984 after spending 16 years on the faculty of the business school at Carnegie-Mellon University, where he served as Dean from 1977 to 1983. \n\nAfter his graduation Kaplan started his academic career at Tepper School of Business at Carnegie-Mellon University in 1968, and served as its dean from 1977 to 1983. In 1984 he moved to the Harvard Business School, where he was appointed Marvin Bower Professor of Leadership Development.\n\nIn 2006, Kaplan was named to the Accounting Hall of Fame. In the same year he also received the Lifetime Contribution Award from the Management Accounting Section of the American Accounting Association.\n\nKaplan and David P. Norton created the Balanced Scorecard, a means of linking a company's current actions to its long-term goals. Kaplan and Norton introduced the balanced scorecard method in their 1992 \"Harvard Business Review\" article, \"The Balanced Scorecard: Measures That Drive Performance\".\n\nThis method has been endorsed by companies from every industry and corner of the world as evidenced by the Palladium Balanced Scorecard Hall of Fame for Executing Strategy™ and Bain & Company's Management Tools and Trends report. He has also published in the fields of strategy, cost accounting and management accounting. He is a co-founder, with David P. Norton, of ESM Software Group, and has been integrally involved in the thought leadership work of Palladium International and its past iterations (i.e., Palladium Group, Balanced Scorecard Collaborative, Renaissance Worldwide). Norton and Kaplan remain affiliated with Palladium.\n\nTime-Driven Activity-Based Costing (TDABC)\n\nKaplan and Steven R. Anderson co-developed time-driven activity-based costing, or TDABC, a methodology to truly understand costs, to help companies get on a simpler and more powerful path to higher profits. Most recently, this methodology is being applied to healthcare, in order to measure health care delivery costs across an entire care continuum, at the medical condition level. \n\nBooks and Textbooks, a selection:\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "11384520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11384520", "title": "Rossall Hockey", "text": "Rossall Hockey\n\nRossall Hockey or RossHockey is a unique form of hockey played only at Rossall School, in Fleetwood, on the Fylde coast, Lancashire, England. The game is unique to Rossall School and is played on the beach next to the school during the Lent term only, with the pitch being marked by dragging the hockey sticks in the sand before each match. It is a brutal beach game born of rugby but played with hockey-like sticks by girls as well as boys at the school. It dates back to the 19th century when pitches were too wet for rugby. It is one of the few school coded sports to have remained in use despite the dominance of other national codes in modern sport. The only other examples of school coded sport in the United Kingdom that remain are those of the various Fives codes; of which Rossall has its own, as well as Harrow football, Winchester College football, the Eton wall game and the Eton field game.\n\nRossall Hockey was referenced in the first issue of the Rossallian in 1867, though its exact date of creation is not known. Rossall Hockey started as a derivation of Rossall Football, an adaptation of the Eton field game introduced to the school in 1857 by a school master who had been a student at Eton College.\n\nInitially the rules of RossHockey were slightly different from those of today, with scoring occurring by a system of goals and rougeables. It is also known that there were no restrictions on the number of players in a game and there was no fixed time of play - indeed one game lasted for two days.\n\nThe official rules were drawn up in 1873 and two years later the first House RossHockey competition took place. The rules were amended again in 1900 to abolish rougeables. Emphasis has always been placed on the game being one of skill and dribbling - as well as one of brute force.\n\nIn 1997 the game was nearly abandoned after over 130 years of history when the supplier of the sticks went bankrupt. A replacement supplier was found in Eccles where they had made lacrosse sticks for many years. The new sticks are slightly less ornate than the traditional ones and also made of hickory rather than ash but the gameplay has not been affected.\n\n\nAny of the following are fouls and will result in a free hit except if they are committed in the \"D\" by the defending team, in which case a \"Line-Bully\" is observed:\n"}
{"id": "12414059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12414059", "title": "Scholars at Risk", "text": "Scholars at Risk\n\nScholars at Risk (SAR) is a U.S.-based international network of academic institutions organized to support and defend the principles of academic freedom and to defend the human rights of scholars around the world.\n\nNetwork membership includes over 400 higher education institutions in 39 countries. Scholars at Risk also maintains affiliations and partnerships with other associations and organizations with related objectives, including the UK-based Network for Education and Academic Rights, the African Academic Freedom Network, the Arab Society for Academic Freedom, Spain's Grupo 9 de Universidades, Israel Network, the Scholars at Risk Ireland Section of Universities Ireland Network, the Foundation for Refugee Students UAF in the Netherlands, and the UK Universities Network.\n\nScholars at Risk advocates on behalf of academics, writers, artists, and other intellectuals who are threatened in their home countries and arranges for positions of sanctuary at universities and colleges in the network for intellectuals fleeing persecution and violence.\n\nScholars at Risk was founded during a Human Rights Program in the University of Chicago in 1999. It has its headquarters in the Greenwich Village campus of New York University. Rob Quinn is the director of Scholars at Risk.\n\n"}
{"id": "374967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=374967", "title": "Science Council", "text": "Science Council\n\nThe Science Council is a UK organisation that was established by Royal Charter in 2003. The principal activity of The Science Council is the promotion of the advancement and dissemination of knowledge of and education in science pure and applied, for the public benefit. The Science Council is the Competent Authority with respect to the European Union directive 2005/36/EC.\n\nIt is a membership organisation for learned and professional bodies across science and its applications and works with them to represent this sector to government and others. Together, the member organisations represent over 400,000 scientists.\n\nThe Science Council promotes the profession of science and scientists through the Chartered Scientist designation and the development of codes of practice; it promotes awareness of the contribution of professional scientists to science and society and advances science education and increased understanding of the benefits of science. \n\nThe Science Council provides a forum for discussion and exchange of views and works to foster collaboration between member organisations and the wider science, technology, engineering, mathematics and medical communities to enable inter-disciplinary contributions to science policy and the application of science.\n\nThe Science Council was founded by the late Professor Sir Gareth Roberts FRS, who served as the Council's Founding President. In February 2007, Sir Tom McKillop FRS, became the new President of the Science Council and he was succeeded in June 2011 by the current President Professor Sir Tom Blundell.\n\nIn November 2008 the Science Council launched Future Morph, a website aimed at providing children, parents, teachers and the general public with information about science and how it might help in future careers.\n\nIn October 2011 the Science Council launched two additional professional registers – Registered Science Technician (RSciTech) and Registered Scientist (RSci) – alongside the Chartered Scientist award, to build a framework of professional standards and recognition across the science workforce.\n\n\n\nMembership of the Science Council is open to organisations that meet the following criteria:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10723240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10723240", "title": "SimRefinery", "text": "SimRefinery\n\nSimRefinery is a computer management simulation game designed to simulate Chevron Corporation's refinery operation. It was developed by Maxis in 1993.\n\n\"SimRefinery\" was developed by Maxis after the success of \"SimCity\". After rejecting several requests from companies, the team eventually agreed to make a prototype for Chevron. In the words of Will Wright:\n\nThe user's role in the simulation was the plant manager of a refinery. One of the things the user learned was about supply and demand and how it affects the financial situation.\n\nAs a commissioned business aid, it was not made available to the public.\n\n\"SimRefinery\" resembled \"SimCity\" with different graphics, disasters and rules; the latter to represent oil tanker ports, petroleum storage and piping systems.\n"}
{"id": "23267682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23267682", "title": "UCF Center for Emerging Media", "text": "UCF Center for Emerging Media\n\nThe University of Central Florida Center for Emerging Media (CEM) is located in downtown Orlando and is home to a diverse group of teachers, learners and industry professionals collaborating in a creative environment that emphasizes high-production values, cutting-edge technologies and time-tested production techniques.\n\nThe Center supports many upper-level undergraduate and graduate programs in film, digital media, video game development, art and architecture.\n\nThe facility also features one of the largest motion-capture studios on the East Coast, an adjacent sound stage, production offices and editing suites. Collectively known as Studio 500—a play on the building’s 500 W. Livingston St. location—these production facilities have attracted a steady stream of entertainment companies from around the world and annually host about 10-15 UCF student film shoots.\n\nThe Center for Emerging Media houses eight separate departments:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39776434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39776434", "title": "University of Raparin", "text": "University of Raparin\n\nThe University of Raparin is a public university in Ranya, in the Sulaymaniyah Governorate of the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. It was established in 2010.\n\nThe main campus of the Raparin University is located in Rania District, and the second campus is located in Qaladiza District.\n\nThe university's name comes from the Kurdish 1991 uprising in Sulaymaniyah, that started in Ranya in March 5, 1991.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2013, the University of Raparin was formally recognized by the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research of Iraq. The University of Raparin has also scientific and academic relations with local and international universities.\n\nThe University of Raparin has established sisterhood partnerships with a wide range of local and international universities and it has a robust scientific relationship with them. The university has signed memorandum of understanding with 18 international universities for staff and scientific exchange, three of which are in America, two in Britain, four in Turkey, and the rest are in Sweden, Spain, Russia, Armenia, Egypt, Lebanon, Azerbaijan, Jordan and Iran.\n\nThe University of Raparin has been able to participate in ten different international projects including: \n\n"}
{"id": "6711184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6711184", "title": "VTLS", "text": "VTLS\n\nVTLS Inc. was a global company that provided library automation software and services to a diverse customer base of more than 1900 libraries in 44 countries. The for-profit company was founded in 1985 by Dr. Vinod Chachra, who became the President and CEO of the company. VTLS originated as \"Virginia Tech Library Systems\", an automated circulation and cataloging system created for Virginia Tech’s Newman Library in 1975. In addition to its headquarters in Blacksburg, Virginia, United States, VTLS had five international offices in Australia, Brazil, India, Malaysia and Spain. VTLS was one of the few quality-certified companies within the library industry for many years. The company was acquired by Innovative Interfaces in 2014.\n\nVTLS Inc. was the offspring of a project launched in 1974 at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University's (Virginia Tech’s) Newman Library, a member of the Association of Research Libraries with more than 2 million cataloged volumes. Having explored available library automation alternatives and having found no system suitable for the needs of its libraries, Virginia Tech initiated a development project to create an automated library system, spearheaded by Dr. Vinod Chachra, head of Systems Development (SD). This forerunner of VTLS Classic and Virtua, consisting of an Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC) and an automated circulation system, was installed at Virginia Tech's Newman Library in September 1975.\n\nBy 1980, the software had evolved into the integrated library system (ILS) known as \"VTLS Classic\", a MARC based ILS including library automation. In 1983, VTLS became the first integrated library system to implement linked Authority Control and to feature full integration and support of the MARC Format for bibliographic records. On July 1, 1985, VTLS Inc. was formed by Dr. Vinod Chachra as a subsidiary corporation of Virginia Tech Intellectual Properties (VTIP), which granted VTLS Inc. exclusive, worldwide rights to enhance and market VTLS software. The ensuing years witnessed dramatic growth for VTLS and innovative development of the VTLS system. By 1987, VTLS became the first ILS to fully support the US MARC Format for Holdings and Locations in a fully integrated Serials Control Subsystem. In 1989, VTLS introduced a multilingual user interface design that allowed users to change language dynamically within their user session. VTLS also began offering imaging services and digital library solutions in 1993.\n\nIn 1998, VTLS launched their next-generation library automation suite with the first release of the \"Virtua Integrated Library System\" (ILS). Virtua incorporated all of the functionality of VTLS Classic but utilized an entirely new software architecture that included full Unicode support throughout the system as well as full native Z39.50 support. Since the introduction of Virtua, VTLS continued to develop support for new standards and emerging technologies. In 2000, VTLS introduced support for radio-frequency identification (RFID) technology for circulation and security, later expanding it into the \"Fastrac\" product division. In 2002, VTLS introduced full support for Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR), a key bibliographic standard enabling full Resource Description and Access (RDA) Level 1 implementation. In 2004, VTLS introduced the \"VITAL Digital Asset Management System\". Later developments focused on discovery software for patrons with the introduction of \"Visualizer Discovery\" in 2008, the \"Chamo Social OPAC\" in 2009, and a hybrid of the two products called \"Chamo Discovery\" in 2012. VTLS later introduced a service called \"Vorpal Solutions\", which offered custom Drupal modules that allowed deployment of a complete custom Drupal-based front-end for VTLS solutions. This was followed in 2013 by the introduction of the \"Open Skies\" unified software platform initiative, planning for the future interconnectivity of various VTLS-based software components as well as more open connectivity with external library services.\n\nThroughout its history, VTLS was a member of many industry organizations, including: American Library Association (ALA), Book Industry Study Group (BISG), Coalition for Networked Information (CNI), EDUCAUSE, International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA), MARBI, National Information Standards Organization (NISO) for Z39.50, Online Computer Library Center (OCLC), the Unicode Consortium, and the Virginia Business Pipeline (VBP). VTLS was also a founding member of the Coalition for Networked Information (CNI).\n\nIn June 2014, VTLS was purchased by Innovative Interfaces Inc., who continues to actively develop and support most of the VTLS-based software suites.\n\n"}
{"id": "895943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=895943", "title": "Vocational Certificate of Education", "text": "Vocational Certificate of Education\n\nVocational Certificate of Education, usually shortened to VCE or Vocational A-Level or AVCE, was a vocational qualification that used to be available in further education colleges and sixth forms in the United Kingdom.\n\nVCEs were available in many subjects including Information and Communication Technology (ICT), Health and Social Care, Hospitality and Management, Leisure and Recreation, Travel and Tourism and Business. Some students preferred the vocational system due to its practical 'hands-on' nature.\n\nThe qualification was created in September 2000 to replace the Advanced GNVQ, with the main change being that the marking system was altered from the three level Distinction, Merit and Pass system to A–E grading, bringing the AVCE into line with A-Levels. The AVCE was intended to lead on to higher education or employment and was made up of modules, each covering different aspects of the subject. Some of these modules overlapped and some institutions chose to merge their content. Students had to complete a set number of modules in order to qualify for an AVCE: \n\n\nAssessment was by a mixture of continuous assessment, based on a portfolio of evidence, and externally set and marked examinations. \n\nThe regulatory body, the Qualifications and Curriculum Authority (QCA), along with Welsh equivalent ACCAC, decided in June 2004 to withdraw the Advanced VCE, with the final candidates starting in September 2004. They created and piloted an \"Applied GCE (AGCE)\" qualification to replace the AVCE. Edexcel withdrew AVCE ICT in June 2006 but students were able to re-submit coursework until November 2006 and could re-sit exams until January 2007. The GNVQ is still currently available in two forms – Foundation and Intermediate levels – which both work up to the Advanced level. This was withdrawn in 2007. The decision to withdraw the qualification proved unpopular.\n"}
{"id": "15855800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15855800", "title": "Volvo effect", "text": "Volvo effect\n\nThe Volvo effect is a term used in critiquing standardized testing that was created by Peter Sacks in his 2001 book \"Standardized Minds\". The term has been picked up by other sociologists, and counting Volvos has even been facetiously proposed as an alternative method to the spending millions of dollars on standardized testing.\n\nThe original text in which the Volvo effect was advanced:\n\n"}
