{"id": "1362388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1362388", "title": "Aaron Kosminski", "text": "Aaron Kosminski\n\nAaron Kosminski (born Aron Mordke Kozmiński; 11 September 1865 – 24 March 1919) was a Jewish Polish emigrant in England who is a suspect in the Jack the Ripper case.\n\nKosminski was a Polish Jew who emigrated from Russian Poland to England in the 1880s. He worked as a hairdresser in Whitechapel in the East End of London, where a series of murders ascribed to the Ripper were committed in 1888. From 1891, he was institutionalised in an insane asylum.\n\nPolice officials from the time of the murders named one of their suspects as \"Kosminski\" (the forename was not given), and described him as a Polish Jew in an insane asylum. Almost a century after the final murder, the suspect \"Kosminski\" was identified as Aaron Kosminski; but there was little if any evidence to connect Aaron Kosminski with the same Kosminski who was suspected of the murders and their dates of death are different. Possibly, Kosminski was confused with another Polish Jew of the same age named Aaron or David Cohen (real name possibly Nathan Kaminsky), who was a violent patient at the same asylum.\n\nIn September 2014, author Russell Edwards claimed to have proved Kosminski's guilt using mitochondrial DNA evidence from a shawl he believed to have been left at a murder scene. His claim has not been published or verified by the peer-review process, and his methods and findings have been criticised.\n\nAaron Kosminski was born in Kłodawa in Congress Poland, then part of the Russian Empire. His parents were Abram Józef Kozmiński, a tailor, and his wife Golda née Lubnowska. He may have been employed in a hospital as a hairdresser or orderly for a time. Aaron emigrated from Poland in 1880 or 1881, likely with his sisters' families. The family initially lived in Germany for a while. A nephew of Aaron's was born there in 1880 and a niece in 1881. It is not known precisely when Aaron left Poland to join his sisters or whether he lived in Germany for any length of time, although he may have left Poland as a result of the April 1881 pogroms following the assassination of Tzar Alexander II, the impetus for many other Jews to emigrate. The family moved to Britain and settled in London sometime in 1881 or 1882. His mother, who was listed as a widow, apparently did not emigrate with the family immediately, but had joined them by 1894. It is unknown whether his father died or abandoned the family, but he did not emigrate to Britain with the rest of them. It is known that he had likely died before 1901, and an 1887 death certificate indicates that an Abram Kosminski had died in the Polish town of Koło, only five miles from Grzegorzew, the hometown of Kosminski's father.\n\nIn London, Kosminski embarked on a career as a barber in Whitechapel, an impoverished slum in London's East End that had become home to many Jewish refugees who were fleeing economic hardship in eastern Europe and pogroms in Tsarist Russia. However, he may have worked only sporadically: it was reported that he had \"not attempted any kind of work for years\" by 1891. He possibly relied on his sisters' families for financial support, and may have lived with them at 3 Sion Square in 1890 and 16 Greenfield Street in 1891, indicating that his sisters possibly shared responsibility for caring for him and he alternated living between their family homes.\n\nOn 12 July 1890, Kosminski was placed in Mile End Old Town workhouse because of his insane behaviour, with his brother Woolf certifying the entry, and was released three days later. On 4 February 1891, he was returned to the workhouse, possibly by the police, and on 7 February, he was transferred to Colney Hatch Lunatic Asylum. A witness to the certification of his entry, recorded as Jacob Cohen, gave some basic background information and stated that Kosminski had threatened his sister with a knife. It is unclear whether this meant Kosminski's sister or Cohen's. Kosminski remained at the Colney Hatch Lunatic Asylum for the next three years until he was admitted on 19 April 1894 to Leavesden Asylum. Case notes indicate that Kosminski had been ill since at least 1885. His insanity took the form of auditory hallucinations, a paranoid fear of being fed by other people that drove him to pick up and eat food dropped as litter, and a refusal to wash or bathe. The cause of his insanity was recorded as \"self-abuse\", which is thought to be a euphemism for masturbation. His poor diet seems to have kept him in an emaciated state for years; his low weight was recorded in the asylum case notes. By February 1919, he weighed just . He died the following month, aged 53.\n\nBetween 1888 and 1891, the deaths of eleven women in or around the Whitechapel district of the East End of London were linked together in a single police investigation known as the \"Whitechapel murders\". Seven of the victims suffered a slash to the throat, and in four cases the bodies were mutilated after death. Five of the cases, between August and November 1888, show such marked similarities that they are generally agreed to be the work of a single serial killer, known as \"Jack the Ripper\". Despite an extensive police investigation, the Ripper was never identified and the crimes remained unsolved. Years after the end of the murders, documents were discovered that revealed the suspicions of police officials against a man called \"Kosminski\".\n\nAn 1894 memorandum written by Sir Melville Macnaghten, the Assistant Chief Constable of the London Metropolitan Police, names one of the suspects as a Polish Jew called \"Kosminski\" (without a forename). Macnaghten's memo was discovered in the private papers of his daughter, Lady Aberconway, by television journalist Dan Farson in 1959, and an abridged version from the archives of the Metropolitan Police was released to the public in the 1970s. Macnaghten stated that there were strong reasons for suspecting \"Kosminski\" because he \"had a great hatred of women ... with strong homicidal tendencies\".\n\nIn 1910, Assistant Commissioner Sir Robert Anderson claimed in his memoirs \"The Lighter Side of My Official Life\" that the Ripper was a \"low-class Polish Jew\". Chief Inspector Donald Swanson, who led the Ripper investigation, named the man as \"Kosminski\" in notes handwritten in the margin of his presentation copy of Anderson's memoirs. He added that \"Kosminski\" had been watched at his brother's home in Whitechapel by the police, that he was taken with his hands tied behind his back to the workhouse and then to Colney Hatch Asylum, and that he died shortly after. (Whereas Aaron Kosminski did not die until 1919). The copy of Anderson's memoirs containing the handwritten notes by Swanson was donated by his descendents to Scotland Yard's Crime Museum in 2006.\n\nIn 1987, Ripper author Martin Fido searched asylum records for any inmates called Kosminski, and found only one: Aaron Kosminski. At the time of the murders, Aaron apparently lived either on Providence Street or Greenfield Street, both of which addresses are close to the sites of the murders. The addresses given in the asylum records are in Mile End Old Town, just on the edge of Whitechapel. The description of Aaron's symptoms in the case notes indicates that he had paranoid schizophrenia, and known people with schizophrenia include serial killers such as Peter Sutcliffe. Macnaghten's notes say that \"Kosminski\" indulged in \"solitary vices\", and in his memoirs Anderson wrote of his suspect's \"unmentionable vices\", both of which may match the claim in the case notes that Aaron committed \"self-abuse\". Swanson's notes match the known details of Aaron's life in that he reported that the suspect went to the workhouse and then to Colney Hatch, but the last detail about his early death does not match Aaron, who lived until 1919.\n\nAnderson claimed that the Ripper had been identified by the \"only person who had ever had a good view of the murderer\", but that no prosecution was possible because both the witness and the culprit were Jews, and Jews were not willing to offer testimony against fellow Jews. Swanson's notes state that \"Kosminski\" was identified at \"the Seaside Home\", which was the Police Convalescent Home in Brighton. Some authors express scepticism that this identification ever happened, while others use it as evidence for their theories. For example, Donald Rumbelow thought the story unlikely, but fellow Ripper authors Martin Fido and Paul Begg thought there was another witness, perhaps Israel Schwartz, Joseph Lawende, or a policeman. In his memorandum, however, Macnaghten stated that \"no-one ever saw the Whitechapel murderer\", which directly contradicts Anderson's and Swanson's recollection. Sir Henry Smith, Acting Commissioner of the City of London Police at the time of the murders, scathingly dismissed Anderson's claim that Jews would not testify against one another in his own memoirs written later in the same year, calling it a \"reckless accusation\" against Jews. Edmund Reid, the inspector in charge of the investigation initially, also challenged Anderson's opinion. There is no record of Aaron Kosminski in any surviving official police documents except Macnaghten's memo.\n\nIn Kosminski's defence, he was described as harmless in the asylum. He had originally been taken into custody for threatening either his sister or the sister of a witness to his admittance with a knife, and brandished a chair at an asylum attendant in January 1892, but these two incidents are the only known indications of violent behaviour. In the asylum, Kosminski preferred to speak his native language, Yiddish, which indicates that his English may have been poor, and that he was unable to persuade English-speaking victims into dark alleyways, as the Ripper was supposed to do. The \"canonical five\" killings that are most frequently blamed on the Ripper ended in 1888 but Kosminski's movements were not restricted until 1891.\n\nOn 7 September 2014, Dr. Jari Louhelainen, an expert in historic DNA analysis, announced that he had been commissioned by British author Russell Edwards to study a shawl supposedly found with victim Catherine Eddowes and that he had extracted mitochondrial DNA that matches female line descendants of Eddowes, and mitochondrial DNA that matches female line descendants of Kosminski's sister from the shawl. Louhelainen stated that \"The first strand of DNA showed a 99.2 percent match, as the analysis instrument could not determine the sequence of the missing 0.8 percent fragment of DNA. On testing the second strand, we achieved a perfect 100 percent match.\"\n\nIn his book \"Naming Jack The Ripper\", Edwards names Kosminski as Jack the Ripper. Edwards was inspired to try to finally solve the case after the release of \"From Hell\", the 2001 Johnny Depp film about the Whitechapel murders. He bought at auction the shawl from which the DNA was extracted and commissioned Louhelainen, with Dr. David Miller assisting, to analyse it for forensic DNA evidence. Edwards states that Kosminski was on a list of police suspects but there was never enough evidence to bring him to trial at the time. Kosminski died at the age of 53 of gangrene of the leg in a London mental hospital in 1919. He says, however, that the DNA samples can now prove that Kosminski was \"definitely, categorically and absolutely\" the person responsible for the Whitechapel murders committed by Jack the Ripper. \"I've got the only piece of forensic evidence in the whole history of the case,\" he told \"The Independent\" newspaper. He continued, \"I've spent 14 years working on it, and we have definitively solved the mystery of who Jack the Ripper was. Only non-believers that want to perpetuate the myth will doubt. This is it now—we have unmasked him\".\n\nCriticism of the report included complaints that the findings first appeared in Britain's tabloid \"Daily Mail\" newspaper. One critic, Susannah L. Bodman of \"The Oregonian\" newspaper pointed out that \"The \"Daily Mail\"s reporting on science and scientific evidence is—let's say—not known to be robust.\" Other criticisms include questions about \"the chain of evidence or provenance on the shawl\", the fact that publishing the information in the press \"is not the same as reporting and publishing your methods in a peer-reviewed journal\", and concerns regarding the entire recent body of Jack the Ripper investigative and historical forensic work in general, pointing out how often the work of mediums and clairvoyants, human interest angles, recycled evidence from coroner's courts and other sources and the general acceptance of misinformation and urban myth as fact have undermined and hobbled previous efforts to conduct objective, scientific investigations.\n\nLouhelainen's findings have not been subject to peer review by other scientists or investigators. Professor Sir Alec Jeffreys, the forensic scientist who invented DNA fingerprinting in 1984, initially commented that the find was \"an interesting but remarkable claim that needs to be subjected to peer review, with detailed analysis of the provenance of the shawl and the nature of the claimed DNA match with the perpetrator's descendants and its power of discrimination\". He went on to point out that the evidence has not been received or examined yet by independent third parties. Jeffreys and others later confirmed that the evidence presented in the book for the statistical significance of the match with the DNA from Eddowes's descendant—a sequence variation described as 314.1C and claimed to be rare—was in fact the result of an error in nomenclature for the common sequence variation 315.1C. It is present in more than 99% of the sequences in the EMPOP database, rather than being found only in 1 in 290,000 people worldwide, as claimed in the book.\n\nMiller found epithelial cells—which line cavities and organs—much to the surprise of the research team as they were not expecting to find anything usable after 126 years. Donald Rumbelow criticised the claim, saying that no shawl is listed among Eddowes's effects by the police, and mitochondrial DNA expert Peter Gill said the shawl \"is of dubious origin and has been handled by several people who could have shared that mitochondrial DNA profile\". Two of Eddowes's descendants are known to have been in the same room as the shawl for three days in 2007, and, in the words of one critic, \"The shawl has been openly handled by loads of people and been touched, breathed on, spat upon\". The shawl or other material could have been contaminated before or while DNA was being tested. Despite the criticisms, Louhelainen continued to defend his work.\n\nDubious DNA evidence was previously alleged to point definitively to a different suspect, Walter Sickert, and published in the book \"\".\n\nThe Louhelainen DNA test and its allegation that Kosminski was the Ripper was featured on a segment of the Travel Channel's \"Mysteries At The Museum\" season 17, episode 4, hosted by Don Wildman\n\nAnother Polish Jew proposed as a suspect in the Jack the Ripper murders was Aaron Davis Cohen or David Cohen, whose incarceration at Colney Hatch Lunatic Asylum roughly coincided with the end of the murders. He was committed on 12 December 1888, about one month after the murder of Mary Jane Kelly on 9 November. He was described as violently antisocial, exhibited destructive tendencies while at the asylum, and had to be restrained. He was the same age as Kosminski, and died at the asylum in October 1889. Author Martin Fido suggested in his book \"The Crimes, Detection and Death of Jack the Ripper\" (1987) that the name \"David Cohen\" was used by the asylum as a simple name for an inmate whose true name (Kosminski or Kaminsky) was too difficult to spell or easily misunderstood. Fido identified Cohen with \"Leather Apron\", a Polish Jewish bootmaker blamed for the murders in local gossip, and speculated that Cohen's true identity was Nathan Kaminsky, a bootmaker living in Whitechapel who had been treated at one time for syphilis. Fido was unable to trace Kaminsky after May 1888, and records of Cohen began that December. Fido suggested that police officials confused the name Kaminsky with Kosminski, resulting in the wrong man coming under suspicion. As with Kosminski, the asylum case notes say he spoke only Yiddish.\n\nThe implication is that Kaminsky's syphilis was not cured in May 1888 but in remission, and he began to kill prostitutes as an act of revenge because it had affected his brain. However, Cohen's death certificate makes no mention of syphilis but gives the cause of death as \"exhaustion of mania\" with phthisis, a then prevalent form of pulmonary tuberculosis, as the secondary cause. Kaminsky might have died as an \"unknown\" as hundreds of people did each year in the late 19th century. That would account for Fido's inability to find a record of his death in England and Wales during the probable period of his life.\n\nNigel Cawthorne dismissed Cohen as a likely suspect because in the asylum his assaults were undirected, and his behaviour was wild and uncontrolled, whereas the Ripper seemed to attack specifically and quietly. In contrast, former FBI criminal profiler John Douglas has asserted in his book \"The Cases That Haunt Us\" that behavioural clues gathered from the murders all point to a person \"known to the police as David Cohen ... or someone very much like him\".\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "253286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253286", "title": "Abe (given name)", "text": "Abe (given name)\n\nAbe is commonly used in English-speaking countries as a diminutive of the masculine name Abraham, or as a personal name in its own right. It may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39603433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39603433", "title": "Adelaide Hiebel", "text": "Adelaide Hiebel\n\nAdelaide Hiebel (1885–1965) was an artist and illustrator who worked for the Gerlach Barklow Co. in Joliet, Illinois, a manufacturer of art calendars. Hiebel preferred to work in pastels, and was known for her photographic detail and portraits of women, especially \"women and dogs, mothers with infants, infant portraits and small children in cute situations.\"\n\nAdelaide Hiebel was born in New Hope, Wisconsin in 1885. She studied at the Art Institute of Chicago with Zula Kenyon, and taught art at Oshkosh College in 1916. Zula Kenyon recommended her for work at Gerlach Barklow Co. She moved to Joliet, Illinois to work with the company in 1918, and was given the opportunity to work from a home studio. Gerlach Barklow calendars were purchased by businesses to be given to their important customers as gifts. Many of the company's artists were women, or local residents. In Joliet Hiebel lived with her husband, who was involved in the \"liquor trade\", and met an untimely death. Adelaide Hiebel was known for her large parties, which attracted nationally known artists, and were financed by her earnings of as much as $10,000 per painting. Fifty of Hiebel's documented works survive.\n\nA brother, Ben, also worked for Gerlach Barklow. A sister died when she was young. \"Adelaide always said her sister was an angel who sat on her shoulder and guided her work.\"\n\nHiebel's most famous work was a pastel of Lois Delander, Miss America 1927, wearing a white bathing suit.\n\nShe moved to California to retire in 1955, and died in 1965 in Santa Ana, California.\n"}
{"id": "317348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317348", "title": "Arborist", "text": "Arborist\n\nAn arborist, tree surgeon, or (less commonly) arboriculturist, is a professional in the practice of arboriculture, which is the cultivation, management, and study of individual trees, shrubs, vines, and other perennial woody plants in dendrology and horticulture.\n\nArborists generally focus on the health and safety of individual plants and trees, rather than managing forests (the domains of forestry and silviculture) or harvesting wood. An arborist's scope of work is therefore distinct from that of either a forester or a logger.\n\nTo work near power wires either additional training is required for arborists or they need to be Qualified Line Clearance Arborist or Utility Arborists (there may be different terminology for various countries). There is a variety of minimum distances that must be kept from power wires depending on voltage, however the common distance for low voltage lines in urban settings is 10 feet (about 3 metres).\n\nArborists who climb (as not all do) can use a variety of techniques to ascend into the tree. The least invasive, and most popular technique used is to ascend on rope. There are two common methods of climbing, Single Rope Technique (SRT) and Double Rope Technique (DRT or DdRT). When personal safety is an issue, or the tree is being removed, arborists may use 'spikes', (also known as 'gaffs' or 'spurs') attached to their chainsaw boots with straps to ascend and work. Spikes wound the tree, leaving small holes where each step has been.\n\nAn arborist's work may involve very large and complex trees, or ecological communities and their abiotic components in the context of the landscape ecosystem. These may require monitoring and treatment to ensure they are healthy, safe, and suitable to property owners or community standards. This work may include some or all of the following: planting; transplanting; pruning; structural support; preventing, or diagnosing and treating phytopathology or parasitism; preventing or interrupting grazing or predation; installing lightning protection; and removing vegetation deemed as hazardous, an invasive species, a disease vector, or a weed.\n\nArborists may also plan, consult, write reports and give legal testimony. While some aspects of this work are done on the ground or in an office, much of it is done by arborists who perform tree services and who climb the trees with ropes, harnesses and other equipment. Lifts and cranes may be used too. The work of all arborists is not the same. Some may just provide a consulting service; others may perform climbing, pruning and planting: whilst others may provide a combination of all of these services.\n\nArborists gain qualifications to practice arboriculture in a variety of ways and some arborists are more qualified than others. Experience working safely and effectively in and around trees is essential. Arborists tend to specialize in one or more disciplines of arboriculture, such as diagnosis and treatment of pests, diseases and nutritional deficiencies in trees, climbing and pruning, cabling and lightning protection, or perhaps consultation and report writing. All these disciplines are related and some arborists are very well experienced in all areas of tree work, but not all arborists have the training or experience to properly practice every discipline.\n\nArborists choose to pursue formal certification, which is available in some countries and varies somewhat by location. An arborist who holds certification in one or more disciplines may be expected to participate in rigorous continuing education requirements to ensure continuous improvement of skills and techniques.\n\nIn Australia arboricultural education and training are streamlined countrywide through a multi-disciplinary vocational education, training, and qualification authority called the Australian Qualifications Framework, which offers varying levels of professional qualification. Government institutions including Technical and Further Education TAFE offer Certificate III or a diploma in arboriculture as well as some universities. There are also many private institutions covering similar educational framework in each state. Recognition of prior learning is also an option for practicing arborists with 10 or more experience with no prior formal training. It allows them to be assessed and fast track their certification.\n\nIn France a qualified arborist must hold a \"Management of Ornamental Trees\" certificate, and a qualified arborist climber must hold a \"Pruning and Care of Trees\" certificate; both delivered by the French Ministry of Agriculture.\n\nIn the UK an arborist can gain qualifications up to and including a master's degree. College-based courses include further education qualifications, such as national certificate, national diploma, while higher education courses in arboriculture include foundation degree, bachelor's degree and master's degree.\n\nIn the USA a Certified Arborist (CA) is a professional who has over three years of documented and verified experience and has passed a rigorous written test from the International Society of Arboriculture. Other designations include Municipal Specialist, Utility Specialist and Board Certified Master Arborist (BCMA). The USA and Canada also have college-based training which if passed will give the certificate of Qualified Arborist. The Qualified Arborist can then be used to offset partial experience towards the Certified Arborist.\n\nTree Risk Assessment Qualified credential (TRAQ) designed by the International Society of Arboriculture was launched in 2013. At that time people holding the TRACE credential were transferred over to the TRAQ credential.\n\nIn Canada there are provincially governed apprenticeship programs that allow arborists' to work near power lines upon completion. These apprenticeship program have to meet the provincial regulations (for example in BC WorkSafeBC G19.30), and individuals must ensure they meet the requirements of the owner of the power system.\n\nTrees in urban landscape settings are often subject to disturbances, whether human or natural, both above and below ground. They may require care to improve their chances of survival following damage from either biotic or abiotic causes. Arborists can provide appropriate solutions, such as pruning trees for health and good structure, for aesthetic reasons, and to permit people to walk under them (a technique often referred to as \"crown raising\"), or to keep them away from wires, fences and buildings (a technique referred to as \"crown reduction\"). Timing and methods of treatment depend on the species of tree and the purpose of the work. To determine the best practices, a thorough knowledge of local species and environments is essential.\n\nThere can be a vast difference between the techniques and practices of professional arborists and those of inadequately trained tree workers who simply \"trim trees\". Some commonly offered \"services\" are considered unacceptable by modern arboricultural standards and may seriously damage, disfigure, weaken, or even kill trees. One such example is tree topping, lopping, or \"hat-racking\", where entire tops of trees or main stems are removed, generally by cross-cutting the main stem(s) or leaders, leaving large unsightly stubs. Trees that manage to survive such treatment are left prone to a spectrum of detrimental effects, including vigorous but weakly attached regrowth, pest susceptibility, pathogen intrusion, and internal decay. \n\nPruning should only be done with a specific purpose in mind. Every cut is a wound, and every leaf lost is removal of some photosynthetic potential. Proper pruning can be helpful in many ways, but should always be done with the minimum amount of live tissue removed.\n\nIn recent years, research has proven that wound dressings such as paint, tar or other coverings are unnecessary and may harm trees. The coverings may encourage growth of decay-causing fungi. Proper pruning, by cutting through branches at the right location, can do more to limit decay than wound dressing.\n\nChemicals can be applied to trees for insect or disease control through soil application, stem injections or spraying. Compacted or disturbed soils can be improved in various ways.\n\nArborists can also assess trees to determine the health, structure, safety or feasibility within a landscape and in proximity to humans. Modern arboriculture has progressed in technology and sophistication from practices of the past. Many current practices are based on knowledge gained through recent research, including that of the late Alex Shigo, considered one \"father\" of modern arboriculture.\n\nDepending on the jurisdiction, there may be a number of legal issues surrounding the practices of arborists, including boundary issues, public safety issues, \"heritage\" trees of community value; and \"neighbor\" issues such as ownership, obstruction of views, impacts of roots crossing boundaries, nuisance problems, disease or insect quarantines, and safety of nearby trees.\n\nArborists are frequently consulted to establish the factual basis of disputes involving trees, or by private property owners seeking to avoid legal liability through the duty of care. Arborists may be asked to assess the value of a tree in the process of an insurance claim for trees damaged or destroyed, or to recover damages resulting from tree theft or vandalism. In cities with tree preservation orders an arborist's evaluation of tree hazard may be required before a property owner may remove a tree, or to assure the protection of trees in development plans and during construction operations. Carrying out work on protected trees and hedges is illegal without express permission from local authorities, and can result in legal action including fines. Homeowners who have entered into contracts with a homeowner's association (see also Restrictive covenants) may need an arborist's professional opinion of a hazardous condition prior to removing a tree, or may be obligated to assure the protection of the views of neighboring properties prior to planting a tree or in the course of pruning. Arborists may be consulted in forensic investigations where the evidence of a crime can be determined within the growth rings of a tree, for example. Arborists may be engaged by one member of a dispute in order to identify factual information about trees useful to that member of the dispute, or they can be engaged as an expert witness providing unbiased scientific knowledge in a court case. Homeowners associations seeking to write restrictive covenants, or legislative bodies seeking to write laws involving trees, may seek the counsel of arborists in order to avoid future difficulties.\n\nBefore undertaking works in the UK, arborists have a legal responsibility to survey trees for wildlife, especially bats, which are afforded particular legal protection. In addition, any tree in the UK can be covered by a tree preservation order and it is illegal to conduct any work on a tree, including deadwooding or pruning, before permission has been sought from the local council.\n\n\nThe protagonist in Italo Calvino's novel \"The Baron in the Trees\" lives life on the ground as a boy and spends the rest of his life swinging from tree to tree in the Italian countryside. As a young man he helps the local fruit farmers by pruning their trees.\n\nSome noteworthy arborists include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "25416083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25416083", "title": "Ashanta Baghphukan", "text": "Ashanta Baghphukan\n\nAshanta Baghphukan (Assamese: অশান্ত বাঘফুকন) (born: 1963), real name Tarun Phukan, is the Chief Organising Secretary of ULFA, the banned terrorist group of Assam. He, along with five other senior ULFA leaders, went missing during the Operation All Clear carried out against the group by Royal Bhutanese Army in December, 2003.\n\nOn December 24, 2003, Phukan's wife Hangshipa Hazarika (alias Malina Ingtipi alias Hema Hansipi) who is also a member of the group's women wing, and son Kareng were handed over to the Deputy Commissioner of Nalbari by the Bhutanese Royal Government. They were accompanied by 64 kins of other militants of the group. The Nalbari district administration later took them to the Tamulpur 30-bedded hospital campus for primary check-ups.\n\nOn March 24, 2003 the wives of the missing leaders has started a fast-unto-death demanding information on the whereabouts of their husbands. They had been admitted to Guwahati Medical College Hospital and were being nasal fed for they had refused to take food in custody.\n\nOn March 13, 2007, the Guwahati High Court directed the Central as well as the State Government to submit information about the missing leaders on March 30 of the year. The central government accordingly submitted to the court an instruction related to it. The court, however, after proper examining the instruction, asked both governments to file an affidavit within seven days.\n\n"}
{"id": "25382703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25382703", "title": "Atikamekw", "text": "Atikamekw\n\nThe Atikamekw are the First Nations inhabitants of the area they refer to as \"Nitaskinan\" (\"Our Land\"), in the upper Saint-Maurice River valley of Quebec (about north of Montreal), Canada. Their population currently stands at around 7,000. One of the main communities is Manawan, about northeast of Montreal. They have a tradition of agriculture as well as fishing, hunting and gathering. They have close traditional ties with the Innu people, who were their historical allies against the Inuit.\n\nThe Atikamekw language, a variety of the Cree language in the Algic family, is in everyday use, making it therefore among the indigenous languages least threatened with extinction. But their home land has largely been appropriated by logging companies and their ancient way of life is almost extinct. Their name, which literally means \"lake whitefish\", is sometimes also spelt \"Atihkamekw\", \"Attikamekw\", \"Attikamek\", or \"Atikamek\". The French colonists referred to them as \"Têtes-de-Boules\", meaning \"Ball-Heads\" or \"Round-Heads\".\n\nA small number of families make their living making traditional birch bark baskets and canoes.\n\nThe early documents begin to mention the Atikamekw at beginning of the 17th century, when they lived in the boreal forest of the upper Mauricie. They had formed themselves into a group of 500 to 600 people, thus present themselves as \"one of the nations more considerable of the north\". In these early documents, the Atikamekw were recorded as \"Atikamegouékhi\".\n\nFor food, they fished, hunted, and trapped, supplementing their diet with agricultural products such as corn and maple syrup that the Atikamekw made by boiling the sap extracted from maple trees. Implements would be made of wood and clothing of animal hides, and obtaining other necessities through trade with tribes in nearby areas. In summer, the Atikamekw would gather at places like Wemotaci. Then in the fall, they would pack up and disperse through the boreal forest for the winter.\n\nWhen the French arrived in the region, the Atikamekw became increasingly dependent on externally controlled trade, particularly the fur trade. They were considered a peaceful people, sharing the region with the Innu (Montagnais) in the east, the Cree in the north, and Algonquin to the south. But they had conflicts with the Mohawks. Through their Innu allies, the Atikamekw caught devastating diseases that were brought over by the Europeans. Around 1670-1680, a smallpox epidemic devastated the Atikamekw tribe.\n\nThe French pulled the Atikamekw into a trade war between the Montagnais (Innu) and the Iroquois in which the Atikamekw and Innu did not fare well. Those Atikamekw who had survived the smallpox were slaughtered by the Iroquois.\n\nHowever, at the start of the 18th century, a group called \"Tête-de-Boule\" reappeared in the region. While there exists no certainty as to the origin of this group, they may have been a regrouping of the few Atikamekw survivors and who were possibly associated with other indigenous nomadic tribes. But they are considered to be unrelated to the former Atikamekw even though they lived in the same area and took on the same name.\n\nToday, the Atikamekw, like their historical allies the Innu, suffer from mercury poisoning due to the central electric power companies that had contaminated the water supply. Despite all these events, the Atikamekw were not moved off their traditional grounds.\n\nThe Atikamekw have their own traditional culture, language and rituals, though they had strong influences from the neighboring peoples. From this grouping, three prominent communities developed, where each of the three communities spoke the same language but with unique dialects reflecting each of the three. Members of the tribe as a whole generally speak the Atikamekw language, but the majority do not write it.\n\nTraditionally, the Atikamekw lived in dome-shaped homes, covered with bark called \"piskokan\". The floor was carpeted with spruce boughs and furs were used as beds and blankets. The Atikamekw had developed a technique for preserving meat by smoking and drying, a process still practiced by some families. Collected berries were processed into a paste that could be preserved for several weeks.\n\nThe making of hunting equipment (bows, snowshoes, sled dog) as well as clothing and blankets, was in former times a task necessary for survival. Like all First Nations, the Atikamekw stood apart by a special way to decorate their clothing. One distinguishing feature were the bells covering their ceremonial robes that were made of bones emptied of the marrow.\n\nThe atikamekw have been recognized for their skill in crafting birch bark items such as baskets and canoes, decorated with beautiful designs. These skills were always transmitted from generation to generation so that even today they are still practiced, giving them the nickname \"people of the bark\". Handicrafts made from birch bark is less practiced in Obedjiwan than in other communities, since it is located in the boreal forest where conifer trees dominate.\n\nAmong Atikamekw, the year is divided into six seasons. In every season, there is a principal activity. The seasons begin with \"Sîkon\", a pre-Spring in which the Atikamekw used to manufacture bark baskets, which can contain maple-sap gathered in this time of year. After \"Sîkon\" is \"Mirôskamin\", Spring proper. In this season, the Atikamekw would go fishing and partridge hunting. These activities continue through \"Nîpin\" (Summer). During \"Takwâkin\" (autumn), the Atikamekw would go moose hunting. A successful hunt required the careful removal of the skin of the moose, offerings are made, and then the meat is jerkied for preservation. Women would continue to remove the hairs from the moose hide, then soak, deflesh and tan the hide, then make thin strips of leather for snowshoe netting. During the onset of winter, or \"Pîtcipipôn\", the men would go trap for beavers. During the winter, or \"Pipôn\", the men would make nets to fish under the ice, while others produce snowshoes.\n\nIn conjunction with the seasons, the Atikamekw divides the year into 12 months. The month names are based on the primary activity the Atikamekw society engaged themselves in. The months are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "986909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986909", "title": "Bearded lady", "text": "Bearded lady\n\nA bearded lady or bearded woman is a woman who has the ability to grow a visible beard. These women have long been a phenomenon of legend, curiosity, or ridicule.\n\nA relatively small number of women are able to grow enough facial hair to have a distinct beard. In some cases, female beard growth is the result of a hormonal imbalance (usually androgen excess), or a rare genetic disorder known as hypertrichosis. In some cases a woman’s ability to grow a beard can be due to hereditary reasons without anything medically being wrong.\n\nThere are numerous references to bearded women throughout the centuries, and Shakespeare also mentioned them in \"Macbeth\":\n“you should be Women,\nAnd yet your beards forbid me to interpret,\nThat you are so”. (138–46; 1.3. 37–45)\nHowever, there are no known productions of \"Macbeth\" which include bearded witches. \n\nSometimes it is caused by use of anabolic steroids. Cultural pressure leads most to remove it, as it may be viewed as a social stigma.\n\nThe “bearded lady” is a cliché—a staple of a carnival sideshow.\n\nDarwin’s ideas on sexual selection that influenced the perception of women with excess facial hair were applied differently across race. Black women who had excess facial hair were actually perceived as evidence of human’s evolution from apes, whereas white women with excess facial hair were perceived as diseased. A beard on a white woman only challenged her sex, whereas a beard on a black woman challenged her species. \n\nSome famous bearded women were Krao Farini and Julia Pastrana.\n\nNotable exceptions were the famous bearded ladies of the circus sideshows of the 19th and early 20th centuries, such as Barnum's Josephine Clofullia and Ringling Bros.' Jane Barnell, whose anomalies were celebrated. Sometimes circus and carnival freak shows presented bearded ladies who were actually women with facial wigs or bearded men dressed as women, both practices being lampooned by comedian and former circus performer W.C. Fields in the 1939 film, \"You Can't Cheat an Honest Man.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42635", "title": "Charles Manson", "text": "Charles Manson\n\nCharles Milles Manson (né Maddox, November 12, 1934November 19, 2017) was an American criminal and cult leader. In the late 1960s, he formed what became known as the Manson Family, a quasi-commune in California. Manson's followers committed a series of nine murders at four locations in July and August 1969. In 1971, he was convicted of first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit murder for the deaths of seven people, all of which members of the group carried out at his instruction. Manson was also convicted of first-degree murder for two other deaths.\n\nAt the time the Manson Family began to form, Manson was an unemployed ex-convict who had spent half of his life in correctional institutions for a variety of offenses. Before the murders, he was a singer-songwriter on the fringe of the Los Angeles music industry, chiefly through a chance association with Dennis Wilson, drummer and founding member of the Beach Boys. Manson believed in what he called \"Helter Skelter\", a term he took from the Beatles' song of the same name to describe an impending apocalyptic race war. He believed the murders would help precipitate that war. The Beach Boys recorded one of his songs, \"Cease to Exist\", under the title \"Never Learn Not to Love\". It was released as a B-sided single in 1968 without crediting Manson.\n\nFrom the beginning of Manson's notoriety, a pop culture arose around him in which he ultimately became an emblem of insanity, violence, and the macabre. After he was charged with the crimes of which he was later convicted, recordings of songs written and performed by Manson were released commercially, starting with \"\" (1970). Various musicians have covered some of his songs. Manson was originally sentenced to death, but his sentence was commuted to life with the possibility of parole after California invalidated the state's death penalty statute in 1972. He served out his life sentence at California State Prison in Corcoran and died at age 83 in 2017.\n\nCharles Manson was born on November 12, 1934 to 16-year-old Kathleen Manson-Bower-Cavender, née Maddox (1918–1973), in the University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was first named \"no name Maddox\". Within weeks, he was called Charles Milles Maddox.\n\nManson's biological father appears to have been Colonel Walker Henderson Scott Sr. (1910–1954) against whom Kathleen Maddox filed a paternity suit that resulted in an agreed judgment in 1937. Manson may never have known his biological father. Scott worked intermittently in local mills, and also had a local reputation as a con artist. He allowed Maddox to believe he was an army colonel, although \"Colonel\" was merely his given name. When Maddox told Scott she was pregnant, he told her he had been called away on army business; after several months she realized he had no intention of returning.\n\nIn August 1934, before Manson's birth, Maddox married William Eugene Manson (1909–1961), whose occupation was listed on Charles's birth certificate as a \"laborer\" at a dry cleaning business. Maddox went on drinking sprees for days at a time with her brother Luther, leaving Charles with a variety of babysitters. They were divorced on April 30, 1937, when a court accepted Manson's charge of \"gross neglect of duty\".\n\nOn August 1, 1939, Maddox and Luther's girlfriend Julia Vickers spent the evening drinking with Frank Martin, a new acquaintance who appeared to be wealthy. Maddox and Vickers decided to rob him, and Maddox phoned her brother to help. They were incompetent thieves, and were found and arrested within hours. At the trial seven weeks later, Luther was sentenced to ten years in prison, and Kathleen was sentenced to five years. Manson was placed in the home of an aunt and uncle in McMechen, West Virginia. His mother was paroled in 1942. Manson later characterized the first weeks after she returned from prison as the happiest time in his life.\n\nManson's family moved to Charleston, West Virginia, where Manson continually played truant and his mother spent her evenings drinking. She was arrested for grand larceny, but not convicted. After moving to Indianapolis, Maddox started attending Alcoholics Anonymous meetings where she met an alcoholic named Lewis (no first name), whom she married in August 1943. As well as constantly playing truant, Manson began stealing from stores and his home. In 1947, Maddox looked for a temporary foster home for Manson, but she was unable to find a suitable one. She decided to send him to the Gibault School for Boys in Terre Haute, Indiana, a school for male delinquents run by Catholic priests. Manson soon fled home to his mother, but she took him back to the school. He spent Christmas 1947 in McMechen, at his aunt and uncle's house, where he was caught stealing a gun.\n\nManson returned to Gibault but ran away to Indianapolis ten months later. Instead of returning to his mother, he rented a room and supported himself by burgling stores at night. He was eventually caught, and a sympathetic judge sent him to Boys Town, a juvenile facility in Omaha, Nebraska. After four days, he and a student named Blackie Nielson stole a car and somehow obtained a gun. They used it to rob a grocery store and a casino, as they made their way to the home of Nielson's uncle in Peoria, Illinois.\n\nNeilson's uncle was a professional thief, and when the boys arrived he apparently took them on as apprentices. Manson was arrested two weeks later during a nighttime raid on a Peoria store. In the investigation that followed, he was linked to his two earlier armed robberies. He was sent to the Indiana Boys School, a strict reform school. He later claimed that other students raped him with the encouragement of a staff member. Manson developed a self-defense technique he later called the \"insane game\". When he was physically unable to defend himself he would screech, grimace and wave his arms to convince aggressors that he was insane. After a number of failed attempts, he escaped with two other boys in February 1951.\n\nThe three escapees were attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when they were arrested in Utah. They had robbed several filling stations along the way. Driving a stolen car across state lines is a federal crime that violates the Dyer Act. Manson was sent to Washington, D.C.'s National Training School for Boys. On arrival he was given aptitude tests. He was illiterate, and his IQ was 109 (the national average was 100). His case worker deemed him aggressively antisocial.\n\nOn a psychiatrist's recommendation, Manson was transferred in October 1951 to Natural Bridge Honor Camp, a minimum security institution. His aunt visited him and told administrators she would let him stay at her house and would help him find work. Manson had a parole hearing scheduled for February 1952. However, in January, he was caught raping a boy at knifepoint. Manson was transferred to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg, Virginia. There he committed a further \"eight serious disciplinary offenses, three involving homosexual acts\". He was then moved to a maximum security reformatory at Chillicothe, Ohio, where he was expected to remain until his release on his 21st birthday in November 1955. Good behavior led to an early release in May 1954, to live with his aunt and uncle in McMechen.\nIn January 1955, Manson married a hospital waitress named Rosalie Jean Willis. Around October, about three months after he and his pregnant wife arrived in Los Angeles in a car he had stolen in Ohio, Manson was again charged with a federal crime for taking the vehicle across state lines. After a psychiatric evaluation, he was given five years' probation. Manson's failure to appear at a Los Angeles hearing on an identical charge filed in Florida resulted in his March 1956 arrest in Indianapolis. His probation was revoked; he was sentenced to three years' imprisonment at Terminal Island, San Pedro, California.\n\nWhile Manson was in prison, Rosalie gave birth to their son Charles Manson Jr. During his first year at Terminal Island, Manson received visits from Rosalie and his mother, who were now living together in Los Angeles. In March 1957, when the visits from his wife ceased, his mother informed him Rosalie was living with another man. Less than two weeks before a scheduled parole hearing, Manson tried to escape by stealing a car. He was given five years' probation and his parole was denied.\n\nManson received five years' parole in September 1958, the same year in which Rosalie received a decree of divorce. By November, he was pimping a 16-year-old girl and was receiving additional support from a girl with wealthy parents. In September 1959, he pleaded guilty to a charge of attempting to cash a forged U.S. Treasury check, which he claimed to have stolen from a mailbox; the latter charge was later dropped. He received a 10-year suspended sentence and probation after a young woman named Leona, who had an arrest record for prostitution, made a \"tearful plea\" before the court that she and Manson were \"deeply in love ... and would marry if Charlie were freed\". Before the year's end, the woman did marry Manson, possibly so she would not be required to testify against him.\n\nManson took Leona and another woman to New Mexico for purposes of prostitution, resulting in him being held and questioned for violating the Mann Act. Though he was released, Manson correctly suspected that the investigation had not ended. When he disappeared in violation of his probation, a bench warrant was issued. An indictment for violation of the Mann Act followed in April 1960. When one of the women was arrested for prostitution, Manson was arrested in June in Laredo, Texas, and was returned to Los Angeles. For violating his probation on the check-cashing charge, he was ordered to serve his ten year sentence.\n\nManson spent a year trying unsuccessfully to appeal the revocation of his probation. In July 1961, he was transferred from the Los Angeles County Jail to the United States Penitentiary at McNeil Island, Washington. There, he took guitar lessons from Barker–Karpis gang leader Alvin \"Creepy\" Karpis, and obtained a contact name of someone at Universal Studios in Hollywood from another inmate, Phil Kaufman. According to Jeff Guinn's 2013 biography of Manson, his mother moved to Washington State to be closer to him during his McNeil Island incarceration, working nearby as a waitress.<ref name=\"Rule/Guinn\"></ref>\n\nAlthough the Mann Act charge had been dropped, the attempt to cash the Treasury check was still a federal offense. Manson's September 1961 annual review noted he had a \"tremendous drive to call attention to himself\", an observation echoed in September 1964. In 1963 Leona was granted a divorce. During the process she alleged that she and Manson had a son, Charles Luther. According to a popular urban legend, Manson auditioned unsuccessfully for the Monkees in late 1965; this is refuted by the fact that Manson was still incarcerated at McNeil Island at that time.\n\nIn June 1966, Manson was sent for the second time to Terminal Island in preparation for early release. By the time of his release day on March 21, 1967, he had spent more than half of his 32 years in prisons and other institutions. This was mainly because he had broken federal laws. Federal sentences were, and remain, much more severe than state sentences for many of the same offenses. Telling the authorities that prison had become his home, he requested permission to stay.\n\nOnce discharged from prison, Manson began attracting a group of followers, mostly young women, from around California. They were later dubbed the \"Manson Family\". The group was involved in the murder of Gary Hinman in July 1969, then gained national notoriety after the murder of actress Sharon Tate and four others in her home on August 8 and 9, 1969, and Leno and Rosemary LaBianca the next day. Tex Watson and three other members of the Family executed the Tate-LaBianca murders, acting under Manson's specific instructions. Family members were also responsible for other assaults, thefts, crimes, and the attempted assassination of United States President Gerald Ford in Sacramento by Lynette \"Squeaky\" Fromme.\n\nOn March 6, 1970, (the day the court vacated Manson's status as his own attorney), \"\", an album of Manson music, was released. This included \"Cease to Exist\", a Manson composition the Beach Boys had recorded with modified lyrics and the title \"Never Learn Not to Love\". Over the next couple of months only about 300 of the album's 2,000 copies sold.\n\nManson was admitted to state prison from Los Angeles County on April 22, 1971, for seven counts of first-degree murder and one count of conspiracy to commit murder for the deaths of Abigail Ann Folger, Wojciech Frykowski, Steven Earl Parent, Sharon Tate Polanski, Jay Sebring and Leno and Rosemary LaBianca. He was sentenced to death. When the death penalty was ruled unconstitutional in 1972, he was resentenced to life with the possibility of parole. His original death sentence was modified to life on February 2, 1977.\n\nOn December 13, 1971, Manson was convicted of first-degree murder in Los Angeles County Court for the July 25, 1969 death of musician Gary Hinman. He was also convicted of first-degree murder for the August 1969 death of Donald Jerome \"Shorty\" Shea. A footnote to the conclusion of \"California v. Anderson\", the 1972 decision that neutralized California's death sentences, stated that, \"any prisoner now under a sentence of death … may file a petition for writ of \"habeas corpus\" in the superior court inviting that court to modify its judgment to provide for the appropriate alternative punishment of life imprisonment or life imprisonment without possibility of parole specified by statute for the crime for which he was sentenced to death.\" This made Manson eligible to apply for parole after seven years' incarceration. Accordingly, his first parole hearing took place on November 16, 1978, at California Medical Facility in Vacaville, and his petition was rejected.\n\nIn the 1980s, Manson gave four interviews to the mainstream media. The first, recorded at California Medical Facility and aired June 13, 1981, was by Tom Snyder for NBC's \"The Tomorrow Show\". The second, recorded at San Quentin State Prison and aired March 7, 1986, was by Charlie Rose for \"CBS News Nightwatch;\" it won the national news Emmy Award for Best Interview in 1987. The third, with Geraldo Rivera in 1988, was part of the journalist's prime-time special on Satanism. At least as early as the Snyder interview, Manson's forehead bore a swastika in the spot where the X carved during his trial had been.\n\nNikolas Schreck conducted an interview with Manson for his documentary \"Charles Manson Superstar\" (1989). Schreck concluded that Manson was not insane but merely acting that way out of frustration.\n\nOn September 25, 1984, Manson was imprisoned in the California Medical Facility at Vacaville when inmate Jan Holmstrom poured paint thinner on him and set him on fire, causing second- and third-degree burns on over 20 percent of his body. Holmstrom explained that Manson had objected to his Hare Krishna chants and verbally threatened him.\n\nAfter 1989, Manson was housed in the Protective Housing Unit at California State Prison, Corcoran, in Kings County. The unit houses inmates whose safety would be endangered by general population housing. He had also been housed at San Quentin State Prison, California Medical Facility in Vacaville, Folsom State Prison and Pelican Bay State Prison.\nIn June 1997, a prison disciplinary committee found that Manson had been trafficking drugs. That August he was moved from Corcoran State Prison to Pelican Bay State Prison.\n\nOn September 5, 2007, MSNBC aired \"The Mind of Manson\", a complete version of a 1987 interview at California's San Quentin State Prison. The footage of the \"unshackled, unapologetic, and unruly\" Manson had been considered \"so unbelievable\" that only seven minutes of it had originally been broadcast on \"The Today Show\", for which it had been recorded.\n\nIn March 2009, a photograph of Manson showing a receding hairline, grizzled gray beard and hair, and the swastika tattoo still prominent on his forehead was released to the public by California corrections officials.\n\nIn 2010, the \"Los Angeles Times\" reported that Manson was caught with a cell phone in 2009 and had contacted people in California, New Jersey, Florida and British Columbia. A spokesperson for the California Department of Corrections stated that it was not known if Manson had used the phone for criminal purposes. Manson also recorded an album of acoustic pop songs with additional production by Henry Rollins, titled \"Completion\". Only five copies were pressed: two belong to Rollins, while the other three are presumed to have been with Manson. The album remains unreleased.\n\nOn January 1, 2017, Manson was suffering from gastrointestinal bleeding at California State Prison in Corcoran when he was rushed to Mercy Hospital in downtown Bakersfield. A source told the \"Los Angeles Times\" that Manson was seriously ill, and TMZ reported his doctors considered him \"too weak\" for surgery. He was returned to prison by January 6; whatever treatment he had received was not disclosed.\n\nOn November 15, 2017, a source not authorized to speak on behalf of the corrections department confirmed that Manson had returned to a hospital in Bakersfield. In compliance with federal and state medical privacy laws, the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation did not confirm this. He died from cardiac arrest resulting from respiratory failure and colon cancer at the hospital four days later on November 19.\n\nThree people stated their intention to claim Manson's estate and body. Manson's grandson, Jason Freeman, stated his intent to take possession of Manson's remains and personal effects. Michael Channels, a pen pal of Manson, has a will, dated February 14, 2002, that leaves Manson's entire estate plus his body to him. A friend of Manson's, Ben Gurecki, has a will dated January 2017. It gives the estate and Manson's body to his alleged son, Matthew Roberts. In 2012, CNN News ran a DNA match to see if Freeman and Roberts were related to each other and found they were not. (Matches between Roberts and Manson were attempted but the results were reportedly \"contaminated\".) On March 12, 2018, the Kern County Superior Court in California decided in favor of Freeman in regard to Manson's body. Freeman had previously said he would have Manson cremated, and, in fact, did so on March 20, 2018.\n\nIn 1974, Manson stated his religion was Scientology, and identified as a Scientologist after studying the religion while incarcerated. Manson completed 150 hours of auditing before declaring Scientology \"too crazy\".\n\nIn 2009, a Los Angeles disk jockey and songwriter named released correspondence and other evidence indicating that he might be Manson's biological son. Roberts's biological mother claims to have been a member of the Manson Family who left in mid-1967 after being raped by Manson; she returned to her parents' home to complete the pregnancy, gave birth on March 22, 1968, and put Roberts up for adoption. Manson himself stated that he \"could\" be the father, acknowledging the biological mother and a sexual relationship with her during 1967, nearly two years before the Family began its murderous phase.\n\nIn 2014, it was announced that the imprisoned Manson was engaged to 26-year-old Afton Elaine \"Star\" Burton and had obtained a marriage license on November 7. Manson personally dubbed Burton with the name \"Star\". She had been visiting Manson in prison for at least nine years, and maintained several websites that proclaimed his innocence. The wedding license expired on February 5, 2015, without a marriage ceremony taking place. It was later reported, according to journalist Daniel Simone, the wedding was cancelled after it was discovered Burton only wanted to marry Manson so she and a friend, Craig \"Gray Wolf\" Hammond, could use his corpse as a tourist attraction after his death. According to Simone, Manson believed he would never die, and may simply have used the possibility of marriage as a way to encourage Burton and Hammond to continue visiting him and bringing him gifts. Together with co-author Heidi Jordan Ley, and with the assistance of some of Manson's fellow prisoners, Simone wrote a book about Manson and was seeking a publisher for it. Burton said on her web site that the reason the marriage did not take place is merely logistical. Manson was suffering from an infection and had been in a prison medical facility for two months, and could not receive visitors. She said she still hoped the marriage license would be renewed and the marriage would take place.\n\nOn April 11, 2012, Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing, which he did not attend. After his March 27, 1997 parole hearing, Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings. The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a \"history of controlling behavior\" and \"mental health issues\" including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder, and was too great a danger to be released. The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports, had no indication of remorse, no insight into the causative factors of the crimes, lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes, had an exceptional, callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans. At the April 11, 2012 parole hearing it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years, i.e. not before 2027, at which time he would have been 92 years old.\n\nBeginning in January 1970, Manson was embraced by the underground newspapers \"Los Angeles Free Press\" and \"Tuesday's Child\", with the latter proclaiming him \"Man of the Year\". In June 1970, he was the subject of a \"Rolling Stone\" cover story, \"Charles Manson: The Incredible Story of the Most Dangerous Man Alive\". When a \"Rolling Stone\" writer visited the Los Angeles District Attorney's office in preparing that story, he was shocked by a photograph of the bloody \"Healter Skelter\" that would bind Manson to popular culture. Prosecutor Vincent Bugliosi pointed out the dispute in the underground press over whether Manson was \"Christ returned\" or \"a sick symbol of our times\" to his \"Helter Skelter\" co-author, Curt Gentry.\n\nBernardine Dohrn, a leader of the Weather Underground, reportedly said of the Tate murders: \"Dig it, first they killed those pigs, then they ate dinner in the same room with them, then they even shoved a fork into a victim's stomach. Wild!\" Neo-Nazi and Manson follower James Mason founded the Universal Order, a group which has influenced alt-right movements such as the neo-Nazi terrorist Atomwaffen Division. Universal Order's name and logo, a swastika between scales of justice, were remotely designed by Manson.\n\nIn an afterword composed for the 1994 edition of the non-fiction book \"Helter Skelter\", Bugliosi quoted a BBC employee's assertion that a \"neo-Manson cult\" existing then in Europe was represented by, among other things, approximately 70 rock bands playing songs by Manson and \"songs in support of him\".\n\nThere have been several releases of Manson recordings – both musical and spoken. One of these, \"The Family Jams\", includes two compact discs of Manson's songs recorded by the Family in 1970, after Manson and the others had been arrested. Guitar and lead vocals are supplied by Steve Grogan; additional vocals are supplied by Lynette Fromme, Sandra Good, Catherine Share, and others. \"One Mind\", an album of music, poetry, and spoken word, new at the time of its release, in April 2005, was put out under a Creative Commons license.\n\nAmerican rock band Guns N' Roses recorded Manson's \"Look at Your Game, Girl\", included as an unlisted 13th track on their 1993 album \"\"The Spaghetti Incident?\"\" \"My Monkey\", which appears on \"Portrait of an American Family\" by the American rock band Marilyn Manson, includes the lyrics \"I had a little monkey / I sent him to the country and I fed him on gingerbread / Along came a choo-choo / Knocked my monkey cuckoo / And now my monkey's dead.\" These lyrics are from Manson's \"Mechanical Man\", which is heard on \"\". Crispin Glover covered \"Never Say 'Never' To Always\" on his album \"The Big Problem ≠ The Solution. The Solution = Let It Be\" released in 1989.\n\nMusical performers such as Kasabian, Spahn Ranch, and Marilyn Manson derived their names from Manson and his lore.\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3056591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3056591", "title": "Chucky Pancamo", "text": "Chucky Pancamo\n\nCharles \"Chucky The Enforcer\" Pancamo is a fictional character, played by Chuck Zito, on the HBO series \"Oz\". Pancamo is a member of the \"Wise Guys\", a collection of Italian inmates connected to the Mafia.\n\n\"Prisoner #97P468. Convicted June 4, 1997 - Sentence: 35 years, eligible for parole in 15.\"\n\nNicknamed, 'The Enforcer', Pancamo is introduced in the show's second season. He is an Italian-American mobster serving time for tying a woman in a bag and throwing her into the ocean. Unlike other prisoners with flashbacks showing their crimes, it's not mentioned what crime he was convicted of (presumably some degree of murder), nor is any context given for why he committed the crime. Extremely muscular, he is primarily an enforcing member of the prison's Italian gang until he is asked to take over by Antonio Nappa. Pancamo runs the gambling and drug businesses in Oz. He is one of the most feared men in Oz, but makes several mistakes as a leader of the Italians. He is shown to be less cunning than other gang leaders such as Morales and Adebisi. However, he does find a way to come out of each situation on top and is one of the few leaders in Oz to make it through the duration of the show.\n\nTom Fontana, who hired Chuck Zito to play Pancamo, said, \"I'm going to push you and your character. I'm going to take you to places you've never been.\" Zito replied, \"That's fine. But there's one thing you should know. I don't do rapes, and I don't get raped. And I do my own wardrobe.\" Zito is one of the few actors on the show that has spent time in prison. When Zito auditioned for the role, the characters first name was \"Sam\", but was changed to Chucky after Zito received the part.\n\nPancamo mainly acts as a soldier, second in command to Peter Schibetta. He does not really like the black inmates who work in the kitchen and often calls them \"moolies\". He helps Schibetta try to kill Simon Adebisi, leader of the Homeboys, the prison's black gang. Adebisi is able to defeat both of his attackers and knocks Pancamo out with a can of peaches. Adebisi rapes Schibetta but Pancamo will not confirm that it has happened since he was unconscious. Things look up for Pancamo when his Mafia mentor and former boss Antonio Nappa arrives and brings the Italians back into power. After taking Adebisi off of heroin for the time being with the help of staff member Lenny Burrano, Nappa and Pancamo steal Adebisi's drugs and offer Wangler a deal. Nappa, Pancamo, and Don Zanghi tell Wangler that if he kills Kipekemie Jara, an African man who has Adebisi under control, that he can work as their partner and they will call a truce. Wangler kills Jara and the Italians accept the Homeboys as their partners.\n\nThis season starts with Adebisi being released from the psych ward and coming back to work in the Italian's kitchen. Pancamo is often cautious with Nappa and advises him on how to deal with the Homeboys. He often reminds Wangler not to get too cocky whenever he deals with the Italians. When Nappa gets infected with HIV, he makes Pancamo acting boss. Afterwards, Pancamo finds out that Nappa is publishing an autobiography detailing all the criminal acts he has committed. With permission from Nappa's superiors in the Mafia crime family outside of prison, Pancamo has the book destroyed and has gay inmate Nat Ginzburg murder Nappa.\n\nAdebisi comes to Pancamo, asking to be partners in the drug trade. Pancamo tells him that if he kills the other Homeboys, he can be their partner. Adebisi burns Poet and Pierce first and then Wangler is left without any help and at Adebisi's mercy. As a result, Pancamo, Adebisi, and Hernandez now are three way partners in the drug trade. Pancamo also represents the Italians in the boxing tournament. After easily knocking out a Biker in round 1 of the first fight, Pancamo somehow loses to Cyril O'Reily, the mentally handicapped brother of Ryan O'Reily. Wondering how he lost to an inmate who he had over 60 lbs. on, he is told by Ryan O'Rielly that the fight was fixed by a Russian mobster Yuri Kosygin. With advice from O'Reily, Pancamo gets Kosygin placed in isolation by tricking him into trying to kill Nikolai Stanislofsky.\n\nLater, racial tension brews in Oz, and Pancamo tells Adebisi to cool the rhetoric or else they will be unable to push drugs if the prison is locked down. Adebisi refuses and Hernandez points out that he is in a crazy state. Vern Schillinger also calls Pancamo and all the other White inmates to a meeting claiming that they must all stick together because they are bound by the color of their skin. Warden Glynn however locks Oz down going into the new millennium.\n\nOz is no longer locked down and things for the time being go back to normal until a shooting takes place in Em City. In Em City, Pancamo then sponsors new Italian inmate Ralph Galino a contractor who is imprisoned for his alleged part in a building collapse. Galino then reveals that he has no criminal connections, works an honest job, and despises Italian-Americans like Pancamo who give the rest of them a stereotypical criminal image. This causes the Italian inmates to ignore Galino as he is unable to provide any use to them. Hernandez decides that the Latinos will join the White inmates side of the racial tension issue and snitches on Adebisi for getting the gun inside Oz. In the meantime a new Latino inmate Enrique Morales arrives in Oz. Because Morales comes in with credibility and Pancamo thinks Hernandez is on the verge of a mental breakdown, he prefers that Enrique run the Latinos in the drug trade giving him Hernandez's third if Hernandez is eliminated. Morales agrees and has Bob Rebadow kill him. In the meantime, a new inmate Desmond Mobay, a Jamaican inmate wants into the drug game. Unknowing to Morales, Adebisi, and Pancamo, Mobay is actually a narcotics detective named Johnny Basil. They all ask Mobay to do a variety of tests to prove that he can be a gangster such as taking punches from Pancamo and snorting heroin (which undercover police are forbidden to do) among other things. A straw poll is then taken to determine if Mobay is worthy where Pancamo votes yes, Adebisi votes no, and Morales abstains. They resolve that he is a worthy ally under the condition that he kills an inmate. Mobay does so and for the time being has Pancamo's support.\n\nThings get even better in the drug trade when new unit manager, an African American named Martin Querns replaces Tim McManus. Querns tells Adebisi that they can have unrestricted drug dealing if his supporters prevent any violence from happening. He enforces this by making Pancamo, Morales, and Adebisi trustees. In the mean time, Hank Schillinger, son of Aryan Brotherhood leader Vernon Schillinger, beats a murder charge for killing the son of Tobias Beecher. Beecher comes to Pancamo and hires him to arrange a hit on Hank, which he does after Beecher promptly pays him. Things get complicated, however, when several of the white inmates and guards are transferred out. All the new guards are black and all the new inmates are black and allied with Adebisi. When Pancamo's cellmate Don Zanghi is thrown into solitary confinement, Pancamo is beaten by the black guards for protesting. Pancamo and Morales both talk to Adebisi about how they are disappointed with the way things are set up as a result. Adebisi tells them that he is cutting them out of the drug trade completely, and when they threaten to go to war, Adebisi says that they will both lose since Em City is now overwhelmingly Black and then tells them that he and Querns have arranged for the Italian and Latino inmates to be transferred out. In Unit B, Schillinger suggests to Pancamo and Hoyt that an all-white unit should be created which Tim McManus ardently rejects.\n\nAfter Adebisi has been killed by Kareem Said, Em City is running back to normal. With no leader the Homeboys are out of the drug trade so Pancamo and Morales are both cruising comfortably. Things get complicated when the Homeboys are brought back into the fold by new inmate Burr Redding. Pancamo and Morales offer a partnership that Redding rejects. As a result, Pancamo and Morales tell ex-communicated Homeboy Supreme Allah, whom Redding despises, that he can be their partner if he kills Redding. Supreme says yes with time so that he can get the approval of other Homeboys. In the meantime, Morales frames Redding for murdering a Chinese refugee and as a result Redding plans his own attack on the Latino and Italian inmates. The Italians and Latinos are playing basketball in the gym when the Homeboys are ready to ambush them. A deadly fight would have occurred had Augustus Hill not tipped off the COs. Supreme Allah is then killed and Redding is back in full swing.\n\nPancamo is called to an interrogation by FBI agent Pierce Taylor, who tells him that a Mafia hitman named Gaetano Cincetta has implicated him in the murder of Hank Schillinger. Pancamo denies everything to Agent Taylor, who tells Pancamo his next meeting is with Hank's father and Aryan leader Vernon Schillinger hinting that he'll tell Schillinger that Pancamo had Schillinger's son murdered. Pancamo informs Tobias Beecher after his meeting with Agent Taylor and promises Beecher protection from the Aryans. Later the Aryan Brotherhood attacks Pancamo and James Robson approaches him from behind and stabs him in the side, putting him in the hospital. At the end of the season, Pancamo nearly dies in the hospital from a staph infection brought on by poor medical treatment, but he survives thanks to Oz's chief physician, Dr. Gloria Nathan. While Pancamo is in the hospital, the Italians fall apart: Schibetta is hospitalized after being gang raped by the Aryans, Redding convinces Warden Glynn to let him run the kitchen and kicks the Italians out, and Morales and Redding muscles them out of the drug trade. However, new inmate Frank Urbano takes over for Pancamo and helps them regain their standing. The Italians fight back against the Aryans and Urbano negotiates a favorable deal to take back their share of the drug trade.\n\nAt the beginning of season 6, Pancamo is released from the hospital and his partnership in the drug trade with Morales is running smoothly. Ryan O'Reily lies about Peter Schibetta wanting to curse the Italians with the evil eye but Pancamo and Urbano believe him and they kill Peter and remove his eye. Pancamo also sees that James Robson has been ousted from the Aryan Brotherhood, so he attacks him in the library. Robson seeks protection from Wolfgang Cutler, who makes him his sex slave. Pancamo tries to kill Robson, but Cutler steps in and wards him off.\n\nWhen Redding takes the Homeboys to work as telemarketers, Glynn gives back control of the kitchen to Pancamo under the condition that he stays away from the Aryans. In the gym, Pancamo and the other Italians approach Robson with an offer. He tells him that if he kills Cutler, they will forgive him. Robson has sex with Cutler one last time then hangs Cutler, making it look like a suicide. Pancamo is then approached by Redding, who asks him to stop any attempt by the Homeboys to deal drugs so they will be forced back to work as telemarketers. Pancamo gladly does so and has one of Poet's drug connections outside of prison killed. Pancamo then sees a new inmate selling hash brownies in the cafeteria. The Italians corner him and kill him with hot steam from a pipe inside the storage room. In the end, the Italians have a monopoly over the drug trade, with the Homeboys working as telemarketers and the Latinos leaderless after Morales is killed in the infirmary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "435656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435656", "title": "David Taylor (Labour politician)", "text": "David Taylor (Labour politician)\n\nDavid Leslie Taylor (22 August 1946 – 26 December 2009) was an English Labour Co-operative politician, who was the Member of Parliament (MP) for North West Leicestershire from 1997 until his death in 2009.\n\nDavid Taylor was born in the town of Ashby de la Zouch. He went to Heather County Primary School near Coalville, Ashby Boy's Grammar School (now known as Ashby School) and Leicester Polytechnic.\n\nAt Leicester Polytechnic, he became a Chartered Public Finance Accountant in 1970. At the Open University, he gained a BA in Maths and Computing in 1974. During this time he wrote the first CASCAID computer program that evolved into the modern day Kudos and Adult Directions programs. Before being elected as a Member of Parliament, Taylor was an accountant and the computer applications manager for Leicestershire County Council from 1977 to 1997.\n\nHe founded Safeguard the Quality of the Rural Environment (SQUARE), and had been a parish councillor, churchwarden of St John the Baptist church in Heather, President of Heather Sparkenhoe Cricket Club, magistrate and school governor.\n\nTaylor was a committed Christian and described himself as an ecumenical Anglican.\n\nTaylor married Pamela Caunt on 13 September 1969 in Loughborough. The couple had four daughters (and one son, deceased), one granddaughter and one grandson.\n\nOn Boxing Day 2009, whilst walking with his family at Calke Abbey, Derbyshire, Taylor suffered a massive heart attack. He was taken by ambulance to Queens Hospital in Burton-on-Trent hospital, but paramedics were unable to save him. The event occurred during his day off while spending time with his family; he had previously announced that he would not run for reelection due to the high workload.\n\nHe was first contested his seat in 1992 achieving a 5.9% swing compared to the national 3.6% swing to Labour.\n\nTaylor's views were on the left of the Labour Party and he is widely regarded as one of the parliamentary rebels and has rebelled on 7.2% of votes since June 2001. In 2005, he was nominated for the 'Backbencher of the Year' award.\n\nHe regularly attended local events, often making it to more than one function in an evening in order not only to be seen there, but to show his support and to maintain his high profile as a local MP. As Chair of the All-Party Group on Smoking and Health, he was particularly active on the issue of tobacco control and a Member of the Chairmen's Panel Committee and a Member of the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Committee.\n\nDavid Taylor described it as \"a real privilege\" to win the title of Commons Backbencher of the Year 2007 in the Annual Awards organised by Sky TV and \"The House Magazine\" and decided by a ballot of all 646 MPs. His citation described him as \"an indefatigable campaigner, constant attender and independent–minded\".\n\nIn April 2009, David Taylor was named by \"The Sunday Telegraph\" as being in the Top Ten of MPs for providing their constituents with best value for the money they spend in providing a service. The newspaper had produced a value for money league table to show both the best – those who work the hardest for the lowest unit cost – and the worst – those who have the lowest Commons work rates while having the largest expenditure – of Westminster MPs. David Taylor came equal 7th out of 592* in the table of ‘best value’ MPs. David Taylor spent £154,277 in 2007/8 (75% of which on staff and office) during which time he had an attendance rate in the House of 87%, spoke in 225 debates and tabled 197 written questions.\n\nHe was one of only a small number of Labour MPs to hold an anti-abortion position.\n\nPrior to this, he opened his complete 'unredacted' expenses file to local newspaper the \"Leicester Mercury\".\n\nFollowing the new emergency interim rules announced on 19 May 2009 by the Speaker which say that furniture should be no longer be claimed for, David Taylor voluntarily elected to apply those new rules retrospectively in his own case for the life of this Parliament and has since made a refund based on the full funded purchase price of all such items.\n\nAt the May 2008 meeting of his Constituency Labour Party, Taylor announced he would not be standing for re-election at the next general election. Taylor died at the end of 2009, before the general election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1205449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1205449", "title": "Derek Prince", "text": "Derek Prince\n\nPeter Derek Vaughan Prince (14 August 1915 – 24 September 2003) was a Bible teacher whose daily radio programme, \"Derek Prince Legacy Radio\", is broadcast around the world in various languages.\n\nPrince moved to Faith Tabernacle in Chicago, and then to Good News Church in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. In May 1971 Derek Prince Publications opened offices in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. Derek Prince Publications became Derek Prince Ministries in December 1990.\n\nThe Princes travelled extensively in ministry until Ruth [presumably his wife?] died on 29 December 1998. The following list of countries covers their ministry from 1993 to 1998. Some of these countries were visited more than once: Russia, Germany, Kazakhstan, Hungary, South Africa, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Turkey, Poland, Bahrain, Cuba, Colombia, Switzerland, France, Portugal, India and England.\n\nDerek Prince Ministries continues to distribute his teachings and to train missionaries, church leaders, and congregations through the outreaches of more than thirty DPM offices around the world, including primary work in Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Russia, South Africa, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States.\n\nAt the time of Prince's death in September 2003, he was the author of over 50 books, 600 audio and 100 video teachings, many of which have been translated and published in more than 100 languages. Some of the subjects that are covered in his teachings are prayer and fasting, foundations of the Christian faith, spiritual warfare, God's love and marriage and family.\n\nAs a Pentecostal, Prince believed in the reality of spiritual forces operating in the world, and of the power of demons to cause illness and psychological problems. While in Seattle he was asked to perform an exorcism on a woman, and he came to believe that Christians could be \"demonized\" (normally described as \"possessed\" by demons - Prince avoided this term which implies 'ownership'). This was at odds with the more usual Pentecostal view that demons could \"possess\" unbelievers, but could only \"oppress\" Christians. Prince believed that his deliverance ministry used the power of God to defeat demons.\n\nPrince, who taught on many themes and subjects including the foundational truths of the Bible, was probably most noted for his teachings about demons, deliverance ministry, and Israel. He strongly opposed replacement theology. His book \"The Destiny of Israel and the Church\" argues that the Church has not replaced Israel and that the covenant that God made with the nation of Israel still stands today. Prince also believed that the creation of the state of Israel was the fulfillment of biblical prophecy. Derek states in his book \"Promised Land\", \"The central theme of biblical prophecy, as it is being unfolded in our time, revolves around the land and the people of Israel. God is carrying out His predetermined plan to regather the Jewish people from their worldwide dispersion and restore them to their ancient homeland.\"\n\nIn 1968, Prince joined the Holy Spirit Teaching Mission (HSTM), which linked him to three other Charismatic Christian pastors living in Ft. Lauderdale: Don Basham, Bob Mumford, and Charles Simpson. The HSTM had been founded by businessman Eldon Purvis; but after the discovery of Purvis's homosexuality the leadership team of the HSTM asked Basham, Mumford, Prince, and Simpson to help in managing the crisis. Prince and the others changed the name of the HSTM to Christian Growth Ministries (CGM) in 1972. CGM sought to counter what were seen as excesses within the Charismatic Movement by emphasizing discipleship and pastoral care which later on was abused by those in leadership positions. CGM continued with the publication of the \"New Wine\" magazine which began under the HSTM in June 1969. David Moore, author of \"The Shepherding Movement\", states \"Essential for an accurate history of the Shepherding Movement is a complete collection of \"New Wine\". The magazine, published from 1969 through 1986, was the principal publishing voice of the five teachers and the movement.\" The group was joined by Ern Baxter, and the five men became known as the Fort Lauderdale Five. Their ministry became known as the Shepherding Movement. Different factions of the movement began to emphasise submission and authority.\n\nPrince later left the group and repented in public over being a member. There are several sermons in which Prince comments on the shepherding controversy (sometimes referring to it as \"Discipleship Movement\")., even in Ft. Lauderdale years after.\n\nPrince published many books and recorded over 600 audio teaching sermons and 100 video teachings.\n\nHis books include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51295464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51295464", "title": "Dimitrie Ralet", "text": "Dimitrie Ralet\n\nDimitrie Ralet (1817–October 25, 1858) was a Moldavian prose writer, playwright and poet.\n\nHis parents were Alexandru Ralet, a \"spătar\" of Botoșani, and Maria, the daughter of baron Teodor Mustață, a wealthy merchant from Bukovina. He reportedly studied in Poland, and his first published work, the short volume of translations \"Plăcerea sâmțirei\", appeared in 1837. In 1841, he became president of the Botoșani tribunal, but soon abandoned a career for which he did not have a calling. He was director of the Justice Department under Grigore Alexandru Ghica in 1849, Minister of Religious Affairs and Education in 1854 and secretary of the \"ad-hoc\" divan in 1857. A prominent supporter of the Moldavian Revolution of 1848, he joined the unionist committee in 1856. He died in Botoșani, of tuberculosis.\n\nRalet was a talented dilettante who wrote an enjoyable prose in which the sharpness of his observations is made more powerful by the moralist's indulgent irony: \"Suvenire și impresii de călătorie în România, Bulgaria, Constantinopole\" (1858). This was the only book he wrote: although deeply cultured, he was reticent with other people and frightened of exposing himself to the public. The work covers a journey he took between July 1855 and March 1856; he and Costache Negri were sent on what turned out to be a successful diplomatic mission to Constantinople. By the time a new edition appeared in 1979, it had been largely forgotten.\n"}
{"id": "27110110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27110110", "title": "Doctor Venom", "text": "Doctor Venom\n\nDr. Venom is a fictional character that appears in the Marvel . He is a scientist who is the inventor of the Brainwave Scanner.\n\nDr. Venom is the first scientist employed by Cobra. His first major invention for the organization is the Brainwave Scanner. He gets a chance to show off the evil device when the Baroness captures Snake Eyes, Scarlett, and Zap and brings them to Cobra headquarters in Springfield. Dr Venom tries to break through Snake Eyes' resistance and manages to see flashes of several of the Joe's memories including his time in Vietnam and the mission that scarred his face. When Venom is distracted by Scarlett and Zap's attempts to escape, Snake Eyes uses breathing techniques he learned in Japan to simulate his death. When Venom and a guard unstrap Snake Eyes from the scanner, the Joe revives and knocks both of them out. He then meets up with his friends and the trio escape.\n\nDr. Venom begins work on a plague toxin at a lab in Sierra Gordo. Snake Eyes, Stalker, Breaker and Gung-Ho track down the lab and almost capture Venom, but all four are captured instead by Kwinn the Eskimo. Venom beats Snake Eyes severely and leaves him to die in a burning warehouse as payback for what happened in Springfield. Snake Eyes escapes and tracks everyone to a meeting with the Baroness and Scar-Face on a small island. Baroness, Scar-Face, and the other three Joes escape the island while Snake Eyes, Kwinn, and Venom do battle. Kwinn notices Baroness divebombing the island and pushes the other two into an armored bunker. The island is then bombed out of existence.\n\nThe bunker survives the bombing and all three agree to work together to escape. However, Venom decides to doublecross Kwinn and knocks him over the head with a wrench while swimming to the surface. Venom and Snake Eyes run into a small force of Cobras who were dealing with the aftermath of the Sierra Gordo operation. The Cobras thought about taking the duo prisoner but were all killed when Kwinn turned up alive. The trio headed for a nearby airfield where they stole an old WW2 Lancaster bomber to fly back to the States. The trip was not uneventful as the Sierra Gordo military tried to shoot them down and Venom tried to kill Snake Eyes and Kwinn by having them fall out the bomb bay doors. The plane limped its way to Miami Beach where the trio were arrested. However, Venom had earlier used the plane's radio to transmit a message to Cobra in morse so he had a lawyer waiting for him at the station.\n\nVenom gets back in Cobra Commander's good graces and uses the plague toxin in a plan to poison the US money supply. When the Joes thwart the scheme, Venom pilots a HISS Tank that takes himself, Cobra Commander, and Destro to safety. Venom later travels to Tripoli where he infects Scar-Face with the toxin. This is a part of a plan to have Scar-Face captured by the Joes so Cobra can track down where the Joes' secret base is by watching for signs of medical quarantine. While preparing for the battle to come, Venom is ambushed by Kwinn and Snake Eyes at his lab in Brooklyn. Unfortunately, the arrival of Cobra forces allows Venom to disable Kwinn and Snake Eyes and lock them up in SNAKE armor that brainwashed them into serving Cobra. During the attack on G.I. Joe base, Venom unleashes the SNAKE armor on the attacking Joes, but Snake Eyes breaks free from his brainwashing and frees Kwinn. Kwinn destroys Venom's HISS tank and prepares to kill Venom with a grenade. However, Kwinn finds he can't go through with his vengeance and instead decides to let Venom live. Venom is not impressed by the gesture and shoots Kwinn several times in the back. Kwinn appears to shrug off the shots and tells Venom he will not harm him as long as he lives. Moments later, Kwinn dies and the grenade he was holding roles out of his hand and into Venom's feet. Venom is killed instantly by the blast. Venom is later buried in an unmarked grave in Potter's Field. Ironically, this same fate later befalls his successor Doctor Mindbender.\n\nTwenty-six years later (May, 2010), in the Larry Hama-written \"G.I. Joe: A Real American Hero\" issue 155½, a Free Comic Book Day giveaway, Dr. Venom makes an appearance of sorts. Venom's image appears and persists on the screen of the Brainwave Scanner as Billy, Cobra Commander's son, is being subjected to a brainwave scan. Dr. Mindbender assures Cobra Commander that this is merely a glitch in the system. Mindbender is later seen discussing his concerns about the glitch to Destro and the comic ends alluding to the fact that readers have not seen the last of Dr. Venom's diabolical schemes.\n\nIndeed, Venom has managed to transfer his mind and memories into Billy, suppressing Billy's own personality. He makes several overtures towards the Baroness under the cover of Billy's training sessions. When Snake Eyes is captured and brainwashed, he takes Snake Eyes to Brooklyn to eliminate the defected Storm Shadow. Storm Shadow manages to undo Snake Eyes' brainwashing, and the two of them manage to subdue Billy, having figured that Dr. Venom had taken over. They sneak back into Cobra's base and place Billy in the scanner, confronting Venom in Billy's mind. Entering the Scanner's shared mindspace, they defeat Venom and Billy and force Venom into his darker memories, where they find several ice floes and Kwinn waiting for him. Kwinn seizes Dr. Venom and carries him into his kayak, sailing off into the sunset.\n\nIn Issues 169, Doctor Mindbender is attempting to repair the Brainwave Scanner after the Ninjas sabotage it, when he sees Venom again, pleading with Mindbender to free him in exchange for his secrets. Mindbender refuses, and destroys the Brainwave Scanner as Kwinn drags Venom away once more.\n\nDr. Venom's action figure was first made in 2010 as part of a two-pack with Adventure Team Commander available from the Official G.I. Joe Collectors' Club.\n\nDr. Venom appears in the \"\" episode \"The Anaconda Strain.\" Dr. Archibald Monev is a scientist for Cobra Industries who works with Dr. Kurt Schnurr on the Anaconda Strain virus. He secretly infects Dr. Schnurr so that he'd be out of the way when Cobra releases the Anaconda Strain onto the populace and distribute the antidotes. Following the intervention of the Joes, Dr. Venom manages to escape.\n\n"}
{"id": "3953134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3953134", "title": "Dog Whisperer with Cesar Millan", "text": "Dog Whisperer with Cesar Millan\n\nDog Whisperer with Cesar Millan is a reality television series that featured dog trainer Cesar Millan's work with problem dogs. After nine seasons, the series finale aired on September 15, 2012.\n\nEpisodes of \"Dog Whisperer with Cesar Millan\" featured guests' problem dogs, introduced through documentary-style footage and an interview with the owners. Millan offered suggestions on how the owners could become their pet's \"pack leader\", consistent with the theory that dogs are pack animals. He used behavior modification techniques and the philosophy that exercise, discipline, and affection are required \"in that order\" for dogs to be healthy and balanced.\n\nThe series premiered on September 13, 2004, on the National Geographic Channel in half-hour episodes and in 2005 was expanded to one hour and moved to prime time. In 2011, the series aired its seventh season broadcast in more than eighty countries worldwide. Produced by Sheila Emery and Kay Sumner in association with MPH Entertainment, Inc. the program has an estimated audience of 11 million American viewers per week. A number of entertainment-industry professionals have appeared on the program, including Virginia Madsen and Jada Pinkett Smith.\n\nIn June 2014, Litton Entertainment announced a family-oriented revival/spinoff of the show, \"Dog Whisperer: Family Edition\", which airs on The CW Saturday mornings as part of Litton's One Magnificent Morning block. It began in October 2014.\n\n\"The Dog Whisperer with Cesar Millan\" is a documentary-style reality television program centering on animal behaviorist Cesar Millan as he works to rehabilitate dogs with behavior problems ranging from excessive barking, to behaviors that could leave the owners little choice but to medicate or euthanize their dogs if not corrected.\n\nMillan said in a number of interviews that the program is not a guide to training, but a demonstration of his rehabilitation techniques. Each episode begins with the statement, \"Do not attempt the techniques you are about to see without consulting a professional\" and repeats warnings that viewers should not attempt the behavior modification techniques at home.\n\nViewers are introduced to the difficult dogs, and their owners, through home-movie style footage of their dogs engaging in the behavior its owners find problematic. A voice-over describes the situation briefly; the owners tell their story, and Millan arrives. Program publicity states that Millan does not review the \"audition\" videos of the dogs and has no advance knowledge of the situation unless the dog's behavior makes it a potential danger to Millan and the crew. Millan conducts an interview as the owners describe the issues at hand. Millan then usually offers suggestions on how the owners may alter their own habits to become a \"pack leader\" for their pet. He goes on to demonstrate behavior modification techniques with the dog and shows his expertise at establishing dominance over the troubled canine. Millan frequently brings one or more of his own dogs to a training session, which Millan describes as transferring another dog's \"balanced energy.\" Sometimes, the dog is taken to his Dog Psychology Center where it stays with Millan's own dogs for days or weeks. Each episode ends with a demonstration of the dog's altered behavior and the astonished pleasure of the owner.\n\nEpisodes feature the owners and families whose dogs are being rehabilitated. In inviting submissions, the producers look for a wide variety of dog problems, including unusual phobias, obsessions, fearful behavior, aggression, or any other unique situations that Cesar could help transform. They ask owners for anything interesting or funny about their dog, and request a short video showing three instances of the problem behavior. Occasionally the program calls for particular types of dogs for themed episodes, such as \"spoiled rotten\" dogs for \"Beverly Hills Divas\".\n\nOn occasion \"Dog Whisperer\" is taken \"on the road\" with episodes recorded in U.S. cities other than Los Angeles, and from the United Kingdom, Canada and Australia.\n\n\"The Dog Whisperer\" chronicles the work of Cesar Millan, a Mexican American, who runs a rehabilitation facility dedicated to the treating dogs with problematic behavioral issues. Millan spent his childhood in the city of Culiacan in the state of Sinaloa, Mexico. However, his favorite place was his grandfather's ranch where he was captivated by the wild dogs on the property. He spent so much time with the dogs that locals called him \"el perrero\" meaning \"the dog boy\". His fascination with dogs extended to television, and his favorite programs featured highly trained dogs such as Lassie.\n\nBy his teens, Millan had decided that he wanted to be a Hollywood animal trainer, and he moved to Los Angeles, where he worked for a dog grooming store, and then for a limousine company. He ran a dog training business from a van before opening the iconic \"Dog Psychology Center\" in South Los Angeles, where he focused on rehabilitating especially aggressive dogs. His expertise with dogs was publicized primarily by word of mouth and Millan soon developed a clientele that included entertainment-industry professionals. Millan's first mention in the national mainstream media came in People magazine in December 2002 in an article describing his work with action-film director Ridley Scott's Jack Russell Terriers.\n\nMillan is a self-taught dog trainer who established a reputation for working with aggressive breeds and hard to handle cases at a San Diego dog groomers, subsequently developing a celebrity clientele.\n\nIn 2002, after he was profiled in a newspaper article, Millan received offers from a number of producers, and chose to work with Sheila Emery and Kay Sumner. They teamed with MPH Entertainment, Inc., which had been involved in successful reality-based cable shows, to produce a pilot. The producers had preliminary talks with Animal Planet, but the Network would not commit beyond a single pilot episode. The National Geographic Channel expressed interest in the program, ordering 26 half-hour episodes, on the proviso that MPH provide the required deficit financing. Under this agreement MPH and Emery/Sumner retained the copyright to the show. The channel retains control of television distribution in the United States and Canada. MPH and Emery/Sumner control worldwide home video and foreign sales and share that revenue with the channel, allowing them to create and market various video collections. The name of the program was similar to Paul Owens' 1999 book \"The Dog Whisperer\". Owens, a reward-based trainer, has distanced himself from the program and now calls himself \"the original dog whisperer\".\n\nThe show premiered in 2004, gradually gaining audience attention, by word of mouth. For the first season, the series wasn't positioned in prime time and the channel did little to promote the show. However, in Season 2 it was expanded to an hour and moved to a prime time slot. In 2009 the National Geographic Channel agreed with Fox to syndicate the series in the Fall of 2010, bringing it to a channel with exposure to approximately 50 million of the USA's 120 million households. A journalist for \"The Times\" questioned Cesar Millan on his motivation for producing the program, and quoted him as responding, \"The goal that God and I have together is the whole world transformed through a dog.\"\n\nIn 2006, former publicist Makeda Smith filed a copyright infringement suit which stated that in 2001, she and her partner branded Millan as \"The Dog Whisperer\" by conceiving, producing and directing what they say was a pilot named \"The Dog Whisperer\", featuring Tichina Arnold. The $5,000,000 lawsuit was settled out of court.\n\nDuring the program's fourth season, the show celebrated its centennial episode. The program is broadcast in more than eighty countries worldwide, where it is alternatively known as \"Dog Whisperer with Cesar Millan\", \"Dog Whisperer\", or \"The Dog Whisperer\". At the debut of the sixth season of the \"Dog Whisperer\", a New York Times article estimated an audience of 11 million American viewers each week. In 2011, following the start of its seventh season, all repeats and future episodes were moved to Nat Geo WILD. The ninth and final season of Dog Whisperer began airing in July 2012; with Millan going on to star in the 12-part series \"Leader of the Pack\" in 2013.\n\nThe following year, Millan's new series \"Cesar 911\" debuted on Nat Geo Wild, with the first episode airing March 7, 2014. While not a direct continuation of \"The Dog Whisperer\", it focuses on his continuing work with troubled dogs.\n\nDaddy was an American Pit Bull Terrier integral to Millan's work and the show. Daddy was originally owned by rapper Redman. Daddy became known for his calm temperament, tolerance for smaller dogs, and capacity for empathy. Millan employed Daddy's temperament to rehabilitate dogs, train dog owners, and serve as a role model for a breed often associated with aggressiveness. Daddy appeared frequently in episodes of the \"Dog Whisperer\", with Millan referring to him as his \"right-hand man\". According to Millan, Daddy \"never made a mistake — never, never. He's never displayed aggression or any other negative behavior. He's just always helped me.\" In 2009, Millan added \"I have never had a dog like Daddy. I've been astounded by his intuition, consoled by his affection, and awed by his silent empathy.\"\n\nJada Pinkett Smith, who helped Millan achieve his goal of having a television show, participated in the program's 100th episode along with other celebrity guests including Patti LaBelle, Virginia Madsen, Ed McMahon and Daisy Fuentes—all having worked with Millan on earlier episodes with their dogs.\nThe writers of \"Dog Whisperer\", Jim Milio and Melissa Jo Peltier, write that they put on their \"writer-producer hats to focus, restructure, and help create a theme for the segment\". This is followed by the \"shaping of the show itself,' writing the narrations, wraps, teasers, tags, and bumpers. They went on to say that \"this is all for a show where absolutely nothing in the field (save Cesar's arrivals to the dog owner's front doors) is fabricated ... what we like to call the last 'real' Reality show on television.\"\n\nExecutive producers for MPH Entertainment are Jim Milio, Melissa Jo Peltier, and Mark Hufnail. Sheila Possner-Emery and Kay Bachman-Sumner are producers. For National Geographic Channel, the executive producer is Char Serwa. Nicholas Bunker is associate producer, Christina Lublin coordinating producer and SueAnn Fincke series producer. The series is directed by SueAnn Fincke and Jim Milio. Cinematographers are Bryan Duggan and Christopher Komives. Thirty-six other crew members are involved in location management, sound recording, camera operation, music, editing, and production assistance.\n\nIn February 2006, an article in the \"New York Times\" quoted Dr. Nicholas Dodman, director of the Animal Behavior Clinic at Tufts University's Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine, said that his college had \"written to National Geographic Channel and told them they have put dog training back 20 years\". A \"New York Times\" August 2006 op-ed by Mark Derr, an author noted for his publications on dogs, criticized \"Dog Whisperer\" for its reliance on a \"simplistic view of the dog's social structure\". According to Derr, Millan's methodology \"flies in the face of what professional animal behaviorists—either trained and certified veterinarians or ethologists—have learned about normal and abnormal behavior in dogs\". His theory of dominance in domestic dogs has been described as flawed.\n\nAlso in 2006, the American Humane Association (AHA) requested that the National Geographic Channel stop airing the program, saying that training tactics shown on \"Dog Whisperer\" were inhumane, outdated and improper. By November 2009, Millan had invited the American Humane Association to the set of \"Dog Whisperer,\" at which time, according to Millan, \"they changed their state of mind about what is cruel\". The association announced in February 2010 that despite \"sharp differences of view in the past\" and some lingering areas of disagreement, they shared many areas of interest with Millan.\n\nDebra Horwitz, president of the American College of Veterinary Behaviorists, said that the major benefits of \"The Dog Whisperer\" are that it makes owners aware that they are not alone in the problems they have with their pets, and that it provides good advice on the need for dogs to exercise and have rules. But, Horwitz adds, the show also has the major drawback of attributing behavior problems to dominance when the dog may be misbehaving because it is fearful or anxious. Pet columnist Steve Dale said in a July 2010 newspaper column that while he believed Millan was \"blessed with an amazingly intuitive understanding of dog behavior,\" some of the methods shown on the program, particularly those related to dominance, were inappropriate and not substantiated by science.\n\nThe Humane Society of the United States Genesis Award Committee presented Milan with a 2008 Special Commendation for his work in rehabilitating animals.\n\nDr. Sophia Yin, a veterinarian, researcher and animal behaviorist, wrote articles and spoken about Cesar Milan's television show and methods, calling Cesar Milan's methods \"based on the erroneous understanding of dominance and the need to use force or coercions [sic] as the first-line of training for all problems\". She did, however, point out in the same sentence that \"there are some good recommendations and lessons one can learn from it and other shows\", and went on to list them.\n\nThe Dog Whisperer premiered in 2004 as a half-hour program but subsequently became first in the National Geographic channel ratings and was expanded to a prime-time, one hour format. In 2007, the network renewed its most popular series to that date with an unprecedented 35 episodes in which Milan travelled the show to US cities like New York and Miami. In 2008, the show in its 100th episode had grown from an estimated 100,000 households per episodes per household to an estimated 1,000,000 people per episode. By 2010 Dog Whisperer had been the National Geographic's top rated series for six years.\n\nIn 2005 and again in 2007, Millan was awarded the \"Michael Landon Award for Inspiration to Youth Through Television\". The show received Emmy nominations for Outstanding Reality Program in both 2006 and 2007, though it did not take the award on either occasion.\n\nIn 2008, \"Dog Whisperer\" won \"TV Best Variety or Reality Show\" at the 23rd Annual Imagen Foundation Awards, and also won the \"People's Choice Award for Favorite Animal Show\" that same year. \"Dog Whisperer\" again won the People's Choice Awards in the category of Favorite Animal Show in 2010.\n\nIn 2010, the show was nominated for the Directors Guild of America Award for \"Outstanding Directorial Achievement in Reality Programs\" but did not take the awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3589540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3589540", "title": "Ephraim Sklyansky", "text": "Ephraim Sklyansky\n\nEphraim Markovich Sklyansky () ( - August 27, 1925) was a Soviet revolutionary and statesman. He joined the Bolsheviks during his years as a student in the medical faculty of Kiev University, from which he graduated in 1916; he was immediately drafted into the army, where he served as a doctor and became prominent in the clandestine military organizations of the Bolsheviks. At the time of the October Revolution he was a member of the Military Revolutionary Committee of the Petrograd Soviet; on meeting him in November, Leon Trotsky was so impressed with his \"great creative \"élan\" combined with concentrated attention to detail\" that he appointed him his deputy on the Revolutionary Military Council, where he served with distinction during the Russian Civil War (1918-1920) and helped improve the fighting condition of the Red Army—Trotsky called him the Carnot of the Russian Revolution. In 1924 his position as Trotsky's deputy was taken over by Grigory Zinoviev's ally Mikhail Frunze. Instead, he was made chairman of the Mossukno state textile trust, and the following May he left on a tour of Germany, France, and the United States to acquire technical information. On August 27, 1925 he died in a boating accident on Long Lake (New York) along with , the first head of Amtorg Trading Corporation. The high-ranking Soviet defector Boris Bazhanov was convinced that Sklyansky had been drowned on Stalin's orders, and the alleged accident had been organized by and Genrikh Yagoda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28778080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28778080", "title": "Erediauwa", "text": "Erediauwa\n\nErediauwa (22 June 1923 – 2016) was the 39th Oba of Benin, traditional ruler of the Edo people in Benin City, Edo State, Nigeria. Formerly known as Prince Solomon Akenzua, Oba Erediauwa's full title was \"His Royal Majesty Omo n'Oba n'Edo Uku Akpolokpolo Erediauwa I\". He was succeeded by Ewuare II.\n\nOba Erediauwa took on the title and duties as traditional head of state and rightful heir of the extinct Benin Empire when he was crowned, succeeding his father, Oba Akenzua II, in a ceremony held in Benin City, Nigeria, on 23 March 1979.\n\nErediauwa was born on 22 June 1923, son of Oba Akenzua II. Before being crowned he was known as Prince Solomon Aiseokhuoba Igbinoghodua Akenzua. He attended Government College, Ibadan (1939–1945), then Yaba College, before going to King's College, Cambridge to study Law and Administration. He joined the Eastern Nigeria Civil Service in 1957 as a District Officer, later moving to the Federal Civil Service where he retired as Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health in 1973. For a short period he was the regional representative of Gulf Oil. In 1975, he was appointed Commissioner for Finance in Bendel State during the Military Administration of Major-General George Agbazika Innih.\nAscending to the throne on 23 March 1979, Erediauwa celebrated his 30th anniversary in 2009. During this period, he several times acted as a peacemaker between politicians. For example, he intervened in a dispute between Abia State governor Orji Uzor Kalu and Tony Anenih, Chairman of the People's Democratic Party Board of Trustees, and resolved another face-off involving Anenih and former Edo State Governor Lucky Igbinedion.\nApart from the ceremonial aspects, his 30th anniversary festival was a week long carnival and a showcase of Benin arts and culture, with numerous performances of traditional music and dance, as well as an art exhibition and food fair. His death was announced on 29 April 2016. The statement did not say when and how he died.\n\nIn Benin the Oba is considered to be the only representative of the supreme deity and is considered a god in his own right. He is believed to be ordained by cosmic consent. This means the people considered him to have have the ability to either venerate or curse a community, so although he ruled with respect and kindness for his people they also feared him.\n\nErediauwa's media friendly image increased the royal family's engagement with the Benin Kingdom and Nigeria in general. Previously approached with apprehension by the public and media practitioners, the gates of the palace were opened, which normalised communication with the Oba's subjects through a quarterly press conference.\n"}
{"id": "2409098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2409098", "title": "Georg Luger", "text": "Georg Luger\n\nGeorg Johann Luger (March 6, 1849 – December 22, 1923) was an Austrian designer of the famous Luger pistol and the 9×19mm Parabellum cartridge.\n\nGeorg Luger was born in Steinach am Brenner, Tyrol to Dr. Bartholomaeus von Luger, a surgeon. After Georg's birth, his family moved to Italy, where Dr. Luger taught at the University of Padua. Georg grew up with Italian as his second mother tongue and finished \"Grundschule\" (primary school) and \"Gymnasium\" (university-preparatory school) in Austrian Padua. After graduation, his parents sent him to Vienna, where he studied at the \"Wiener Handelsakademie\" (Vienna Commercial Academy), the predecessor to today's Vienna Business School.\n\nIn October 1867, Luger volunteered for military service as a Reserve Officer Cadet with the . He was promoted to \"Cadett-Corporal\" (Officer Cadet Corporal) on June 1, 1868, and to \"Faehnrich\" (Ensign) on October 1. Luger's good marksmanship brought him to the attention of his superiors; he was sent to the Austro-Hungarian Military Firearms School at Camp Bruckneudorf, where he soon became an instructor. There, his interest in automatic loading systems began. In 1871 Luger was promoted to \"Leutnant der Reserve\" (lieutenant) and moved to the military reserve.\n\nLuger married Elisabeth Josefa Dufek in 1873. He moved to Vienna with her and they had three children (in order):\n\n\nLuger's first son, Georg Franz, became a civil engineer and joined his father in military weapons development. His second son fell as a Hauptmann d.R. (Reservist Captain) in World War I on the Galician front in 1915.\n\nAfter leaving the military, Luger worked as an accountant and later in the management of the Jockey Club, one of the top social meeting points in Vienna.\n\nHe met Ferdinand von Mannlicher in about 1875 and the two collaborated on rifle magazine designs, which seemed to awaken a latent talent for design within Luger.\n\nIn 1891 Luger was employed by Ludwig Loewe & Company (of Berlin, Germany) and gradually became a consultant designer.\n\nIn 1894 he was sent to demonstrate a Hugo Borchardt-designed weapon, manufactured by Deutsche Waffen und Munitions Fabriken (DWM) (which had evolved from Loewe after its founder's death), to the US Army. The Army rejected the pistol, but from criticism he received, Luger improved it, creating the Parabellum pistol (commonly called a Luger), and patenting it in 1898. This pistol was a success for both Luger and DWM.\n\nLuger's contract with DWM was cancelled in 1919 and he successfully sued them over patent royalties. However Luger had lost all his savings by this time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38794192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38794192", "title": "Gordon Edington", "text": "Gordon Edington\n\nGeorge Gordon Edington, CBE, FRICS, FRSA (born 7 September 1945), known as Gordon Edington, is a London-born businessman, and writer. He has been with the British Property Federation (since May 1997) as Vice President (formerly President), and is the Group Property Director of BAA Airports Ltd (since 1991).\n\n"}
{"id": "45238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45238", "title": "Gérard Depardieu", "text": "Gérard Depardieu\n\nGérard Xavier Marcel Depardieu (; born 27 December 1948) is a French actor. He is one of the most prolific character actors in film history, having completed more than 170 films since 1967. \n\nHe has received acclaim for his performances in \"The Last Metro\" (1980), for which he won the César Award for Best Actor, in \"Police\" (1985), for which he won the Volpi Cup for Best Actor, \"Jean de Florette\" (1986), and \"Cyrano de Bergerac\" (1990), winning the Cannes Film Festival for Best Actor, his second César Award for Best Actor, and his first Academy Award nomination for Best Actor.\n\nHe co-starred in Peter Weir's comedy \"Green Card\" (1990), winning a Golden Globe Award and later acted in many big budget Hollywood movies including Ridley Scott's \"\" (1992), Kenneth Branagh's \"Hamlet\" (1996), Randall Wallace's \"The Man in the Iron Mask\" (1998), and Ang Lee's \"Life of Pi\" (2012).\n\nHe is a Chevalier of the Légion d'honneur and Chevalier of the Ordre national du Mérite. He was granted citizenship of Russia in January 2013, and became a cultural ambassador of Montenegro during the same month.\n\nGérard Depardieu was born in Châteauroux, Indre, France. He is one of the five children of Anne Jeanne Josèphe (née Marillier) and René Maxime Lionel Depardieu, a metal worker and volunteer fireman. After leaving school at the age of thirteen, he worked at a printworks. He also became involved in selling stolen things, and was put on probation at one point.\n\nAt the age of sixteen, Depardieu left Châteauroux for Paris. There, he began acting in the new comedy theatre Café de la Gare, along with Patrick Dewaere, Romain Bouteille, Sotha, Coluche, and Miou-Miou. He studied dancing under Jean-Laurent Cochet.\n\nHis first film role to gain attention was playing Jean-Claude in Bertrand Blier's comedy \"Les Valseuses\" (\"Going Places\", 1974). Other prominent early roles include a starring role in Bernardo Bertolucci's historical epic \"1900\" (1976), with Robert De Niro, and a role in François Truffaut's \"The Last Metro\" (1980), with Catherine Deneuve for which he won his first César Award for Best Actor.\n\nHis international profile rose as a result of his performance as a doomed, hunchbacked farmer in the film \"Jean de Florette\" (1986) and received notice for his starring role in \"Cyrano de Bergerac\" (1990), for which he won his second César Award for Best Actor, the Cannes Film Festival for Best Actor, and received a nomination for an Academy Award.\n\nDepardieu co-starred in Peter Weir's English language romantic comedy \"Green Card\" (1990), for which he won a Golden Globe Award. He has since had other roles in other English language films, including Ridley Scott's \"\" (1992), Kenneth Branagh's \"Hamlet\" (1996), and Ang Lee's \"Life of Pi\" (2012).\n\nHe played Obélix in the four live-action \"Astérix\" films in which he is said to have discovered Mélanie Laurent when she was fourteen.\n\nIn 2009, he took part in a rare performance of Sardou's \"La Haine\" at the Festival de Radio France et Montpellier Languedoc Roussillon, with Fanny Ardant; subsequently broadcast on France Musique.\n\nIn 2013, he starred in an independent film titled \"A Farewell to Fools\".\n\nDepardieu featured as a main character in Antwerp (Edinburgh Festival 2014), a play in The Europeans Trilogy (Bruges, Antwerp, Tervuren) by Paris-based UK playwright Nick Awde.\n\nIn 1970, Depardieu married Élisabeth Guignot, with whom he had two children, actor Guillaume (1971–2008) and actress Julie (born 1973).\nOn 28 January 1992, while separated from Guignot, he had a daughter, Roxanne, with the model Karine Silla (sister of producer Virginie Besson-Silla). In 1996, he divorced Guignot and began a relationship with actress Carole Bouquet, who was his partner from 1997 to 2005.\n\nOn 14 July 2006, he had a son, Jean, with French-Cambodian Hélène Bizot (daughter of François Bizot and not to be confused with actress Hélène Bizot). Since 2005, Depardieu has lived with Clémentine Igou.\n\nHe underwent heart surgery in July 2000.\n\nOn 13 October 2008, Depardieu's son Guillaume died from pneumonia at the age of 37. The infection arose as a complication following surgery to amputate his leg. Guillaume's health had been adversely affected by drug use. A motorcycle crash resulted in a number of post-accident operations performed in an attempt to save the leg. These were complicated by the development of post-operative wound infections, eventually necessitating the amputation of the leg.\n\nIn his sixties, Depardieu attracted attention from the media and legal authorities for his behavior. On 16 August 2011, he urinated in a bottle while on board a CityJet flight bound for Dublin as it taxied in Paris. The incident was attributed to urinary incontinence caused by a prostate problem with the flight attendant not allowing him to get up from his seat to go to the toilet because the aircraft was already moving. In August 2012, he was accused of assault and battery for punching a motorist in Paris. In November 2012, he was arrested for driving while intoxicated after he fell from his scooter, and was found to have a blood alcohol level of 1.8 grams per litre, well above the French limit for driving of 0.5.\n\nHe has been an official resident of Néchin, Belgium, since 7 December 2012. French prime minister Jean-Marc Ayrault criticised his move. On 15 December 2012, Depardieu publicly stated he was handing back his French passport. On 3 January 2013, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed an Executive Order granting Russian citizenship to Depardieu. In his first interview thereafter, Depardieu attacked Putin's critics. In his autobiography, Depardieu said Putin \"immediately liked my hooligan side.\" In February 2013, he registered as a resident of Saransk. Also in January 2013, he was appointed a cultural ambassador for Montenegro. During the summer of 2015, due to Russian-Ukrainian political issues, Depardieu was banned from television and movie theaters in Ukraine.\n\nIn August 2018, he was accused of the sexual assault and rape of a young female actress. Via his lawyer, Depardieu denied the allegations.\n\nDepardieu has been nominated for the Best Actor in a Leading Role César 17 times during his career and won it twice, in 1981 and 1991. He was also nominated for an Oscar in 1990 for his role in \"Cyrano de Bergerac\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40815116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40815116", "title": "Harvey Peltier Jr.", "text": "Harvey Peltier Jr.\n\nHarvey Andrew Peltier Jr. (January 18, 1923 – December 5, 1980), was from 1964 to 1976 a member of the Louisiana State Senate from District 21, which included Lafourche and Terrebonne parishes in South Louisiana. He served alongside Claude B. Duval, senator from Terrebonne and St. Mary parishes.\n\nPeltier resided in his native Thibodaux, Louisiana. At the age of twenty-five, he was a delegate to the 1948 Democratic National Convention held in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, which nominated the Truman-Barkley ticket. He was appointed in 1975 by Governor Edwin Edwards as a trustee of the University of Louisiana System and was its first president from 1975 until his death in 1980.\n\nPeltier's father, Harvey Peltier Sr., an attorney, banker, and horse breeder, a political confidante of and a campaign manager for Governor and U.S. Senator Huey Pierce Long Jr. was a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives from 1924 to 1929 and held the same senate seat as his son, from 1930 to 1940. Peltier Sr. also served on the former Louisiana State Board of Education as the elected member from Louisiana's 3rd congressional district.\n\nPeltier's mother was the former May Ayo (1902-1992). He had a sister, Bernice P. Harang, and three brothers, Donald Louis Peltier (1926-2008), Richard Benton Peltier (1938-2007), and Dr. James R. Peltier (born 1930), a member of the Louisiana State University Board of Supervisors. Peltier's brother-in-law, Warren Harang Jr. (1921–2005), was a former president of the Thibodaux Chamber of Commerce and the American Sugar Cane League, a member of the Lafourche Parish School Board, and the mayor of Thibodaux from 1968–1978, 1986–1990, and 1994–1998.\nIn 1945, Peltier married Irma Mary Geheeb (1924-2014), the third daughter of Albert John and Cleo Belou Geheeb. Known as \"Mickey\", she graduated from the former Ursuline College, now Ursuline Academy, in her native New Orleans. The Peltiers lost an infant son in 1952 and have three surviving children, Patricia P. Crum, Harvey \"Drew\" Peltier III, and wife Linda, and Mary Ellen Peltier. Peltier's son-in-law, John Mitchell Crum (1945-2012), was a district attorney of the 40th Judicial District of St. John the Baptist Parish.\n\nThe Peltier family is interred in the family tomb at St. Joseph Cemetery in Thibodaux.\n\nIn February 2014, four months before the death of his wife, Peltier Jr. was posthumously inducted into the Louisiana Political Museum and Hall of Fame in Winnfield. Peltier's colleague in the Louisiana House, Richard P. \"Dick\" Guidry of Lafourche Parish, was inducted in the same ceremony.\n"}
{"id": "22272809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22272809", "title": "Hugh Seton-Watson", "text": "Hugh Seton-Watson\n\nGeorge Hugh Nicholas Seton-Watson CBE, FBA (15 February 1916 – 19 December 1984) was a British historian and political scientist specialising in Russia.\n\nSeton-Watson was one of the two sons of Robert William Seton-Watson, the activist and historian. He was educated at Winchester College and New College, Oxford, from where he graduated in 1938.\n\nAfter working for the British Foreign Office in Belgrade and Bucharest at the start of the Second World War, Seton-Watson joined the British Special Operations Executive. Interned by the Italians after the fall of Yugoslavia to the Axis in 1941, Seton-Watson was repatriated to Britain, and later posted to the British special forces in Cairo, where he remained until 1944. In January 1944 he moved to Istanbul where he performed intelligence activities among the refugees coming from the Balkans.\n\nSeton-Watson wrote most of his first major work, \"Eastern Europe between the Wars, 1918–1941\" in Cape Town while on his way from Italy to Britain after the fall of Yugoslavia, finishing it in Cairo during the battle of El Alamein in 1942.\n\nIn 1945 he was appointed praelector in politics at University College, Oxford. In 1951 he was appointed to the chair of Russian history at the University of London, where he remained until 1983, exercising a major influence over British and American understandings of Russia during the Cold War. He subsequently became the Professor Emeritus of Russian history.\n\nBeginning in 1957 at Columbia University, he regularly visited institutions in the United States to lectures and conduct research. During a three-month fellowship, beginning in October 1984, at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars he became ill with pulmonary problems and was admitted to Georgetown University Hospital where he died three weeks later.\n\nAfter publishing \"The Decline of Imperial Russia, 1855–1914\" in 1952, Seton-Watson published his most famous work, \"The Russian Empire, 1801–1917\" in 1967. This became the standard history of late imperial Russia for a generation.\n\nSeton-Watson's \"Nations and States: an Enquiry into the Origins of Nations and the Politics of Nationalism\" (1977) made a fundamental contribution to the study of nationalism, though later overshadowed by the success of Benedict Anderson's more theoretical \"Imagined Communities\".\n\nThe \"New York Times Book Review\" called him \"the outstanding authority on the satellite countries of Eastern Europe\".\n\nSeton-Watson received a DLitt from Oxford in 1974 and an honorary doctorate from the University of Essex in 1983. In the 1981 New Year Honours he was appointed CBE.\n\n"}
{"id": "37204158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37204158", "title": "Ibrahim Shihata", "text": "Ibrahim Shihata\n\nIbrahim F.I. Shihata (1937–2001) was an expert on international development and general counsel of the World Bank from 1983 to 1998.\nDr. Ibrahim F.I Shihata was the Founder of the Opec Fund and Senior Vice President and General Counsel at the World Bank for 20 years.\n\nAt the age of 20, Ibrahim Shihata graduated with a BA in law from Cairo University Law School at the top of his class. He originally planned to continue his education in the United States, but then received an offer from the Conseil d’Etat to work as a legal advisor in the Ministry of Health.\n\nIn the following year, he was moved to the technical bureau of the President of the Conseil. During Egypt and Syria's failed unification, he was seconded to the office of the President of the Republic. During his tenure, a senior official fell ill, and recommended Ibrahim Shihata take his place in drafting the constitution of the United Arab Republics. Although working full-time, he managed to complete two graduate diplomas, earning distinctions on both.\n\nDuring his service with the then Unified Republic, Dr. Shihata was informed that he had been granted a scholarship for study in the United States. He had only applied to Harvard University, where he completed his PhD in International Law. He completed the degree in 1964, in just under 4 years. His professor spoke highly of his dissertation, stating that the paper increased the value of a PhD degree from Harvard, and the value of the university as a whole.\n\nUpon completion of his PhD, Dr. Shihata returned to Egypt to teach at Ain Shams University at both undergraduate and graduate levels. Two years later, he was offered a position to work as Legal Counsel of the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic development. He worked as legal counsel in the role, based in Kuwait, for eight years.\n\nDr. Shihata was appointed as Director General of the then OPEC Special Fund at its creation in 1976. Under his leadership, the OPEC Special Fund developed into the long-standing institution that is known as today—the OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID). During his tenure, Dr. Shihata was known for his contribution towards addressing the issue of poverty, primarily in the southern areas of the world.\n\nWhile working at OFID, Dr Shihata also served as an Executive Director at the International Fund for Agricultural Development. He was the first Chairman of the International Development Law Institute he contributed establishing in 1983.\n\nIn 1983, Dr Shihata was appointed as Senior Vice President & General Counsel for the World Bank and Secretary-General of the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). He was handpicked by then President, Tom Clawsen, and was the first person from a developing country to be appointed to the position.\n\nDr. Shihata is most well known for his creation of the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) Organisation. Founded in 1985, the purpose of the organisation was to encourage direct foreign investment to developing countries for economic development, while providing insurance against non-commercial risks such as war and famine. He made a significant contribution to the Global Environment Facility (GEF) a joint program with the United Nations that promoted environmentally friendly development. He was responsible for the expansion of the International Center for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). During his 17-year tenure at the World Bank, Dr. Shihata developed these organisations into world-renowned entities. Dr. Shihata was known for his achievements as general counsel, and the numerous books and articles he authored on the World Bank, international law and international economics. He wrote his famous book (in Arabic) about Egypt, \"Waseyati Li Beladi\" (My Will for My Country), which analyized Egypt's major problems at the time and predicted the Egyptian Revolution.\n\nDr. Ibrahim Shihata retired in 2000 as Senior Vice-President and Special Adviser to the World Bank's President. On May 28, 2001, Dr. Ibrahim Shihata died in Washington D.C., from complications due to liver disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "15540047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15540047", "title": "Israel Shochat", "text": "Israel Shochat\n\nIsrael Shochat (;1886–1962) was a founder of and a key figure in Bar-Giora and Hashomer, one of the precursors of the Israel Defense Forces.\n\nIsrael Shochat was born in 1886 in Lyskovo, in the Grodno Governorate of the Russian Empire (present-day Belarus). As a child, he had tutors for Hebrew and Russian. At age 18, he was involved in a Jewish defence group and in Poale Zion. He went to Germany to study agronomy but left his studies after only three months and immigrated to Palestine with his brother, Eliezer, in 1904. They worked as field hands in the fields and orchards of Petah Tikva. He moved to Rishon LeZion to work in the winery. There Israel met Alexander Zaïd and shared with him his radical socialist ideas. Zaid received them enthusiastically and declared \"I'm with you, for life or death, let's start as of now!\" In Rishon LeZion, he suffered the first bout of fever, which was to plague him for the remainder of his life.\n\nIsrael Shochat moved to Jerusalem to persuade the yeshivot leaders to join the efforts to create a national workforce. His attempts failed. To support himself, he shined shoes at Jaffa Gate. As a result of ill health, he was forced to give up manual labour and worked as Israel Belkind's assistant. He became interested in the Circassians living in Palestine, as an example of how a small minority could preserve its identity and pride in an often hostile environment. The key for Shochat was that they cultivated their land and protected it with their own hands.\n\nAlong with Israel Giladi, Alexander Zaid and Mendel Portugali, he convinced some of the Jewish farmers to let them help with guarding the fields. It was a modest start.\nIsrael represented Poalei Zion in the Zionist Congress of 1907, which took place in the Hague in the Netherlands. He was his party's first representative from Palestine. He was unable to present his idea to the assembly and in a private conversation, Menachem Ussishkin told Israel that he was much too young to succeed in achieving the goal of a national defence. Yitzhak Ben-Zvi, a representative from the United States [mistake, YBZ was from Russia and emigrated to Palestine that very year, 1907; somebody please figure this out], was receptive and they travelled back to Palestine together, working along the way.\nIn 1907, Israel Shochat was one of the 10 people who, in Yitzhak Ben-Zvi's Jaffa apartment, founded Bar-Giora, a clandestine organisation which sought to create an armed Jewish force. It took its name from one of the leading Jewish rebels of the First Jewish–Roman War. Manya Wilbuszewicz, the leader and founding member of the collective at Sejera, convinced Shochat to join the agricultural settlement there. He accepted, becoming the second leader of the community which he used as a base for training Jewish guards. In May 1908, Israel and Manya got married. The next year, Israel and Manya Shochat were among the leading founders of Hashomer (lit. \"The Watchman\"), a more ambitious enterprise than Bar-Giora, being the first attempt to provide an organised defence for all the Jewish communities in Palestine.\n\nIn 1914 the Ottoman Empire entered World War I. The Turkish authorities viewed the Jews of Palestine with a great degree of distrust, particularly Russian nationals like the Shochats; after the Shochats were found hiding weapons for the Hashomer organisation, they were deported to the Anatolian city of Bursa, in Turkey. While their first-born soon, Gideon (\"Geda\"), had been born in Palestine during their first years of marriage, their daughter Anna was born in Anatolia in 1916.\n\nThe Shochat family returned to Palestine around Passover, 1919, after attending the Poalei Tziyon convention in Stockholm. They both joined the Ahdut HaAvoda, a workers' party led by David Ben-Gurion. At first Israel Shochat worked the land in Kfar Giladi, but soon became involved in founding the famous Work Battalion and in organizing the defence of the Galilee. In 1920 the Ahdut HaAvoda decided to replace the existing Hashomer militias with a new organisation, the Haganah, established as the paramilitary arm of the Histadrut. During the riots of 1921, Israel Shochat took an active part in defending Tel Aviv and Jaffa. The same year his wife left for the United States on mission to collect money for the Histadrut and, rather on her own initiative, for the Haganah. Due to political opposition within the Jewish community, she only managed to raise several thousand dollars, which she sent to Israel Shochat who was waiting in Vienna, where he oversaw the purchase and shipment of weapons to the now British-administered Palestine.\n\nIn the years 1921–26, Israel Shochat was on the Jewish National Council. He was also instrumental in forming Hapoel. In the 1930s, after a long conflict with the Histadrut, he retired from political life. He died in 1962 and is buried in Kfar Giladi alongside his wife.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44864134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44864134", "title": "Jahnabi Goswami", "text": "Jahnabi Goswami\n\nJahnabi Goswami (born 16 September 1976) is an Indian HIV/AIDS activist from Assam. She is the first woman in the Northeast to declare her HIV status. She is the founder and current treasurer of Assam Network of Positive People (ANPP) and the current president of the Indian Network for People living with HIV/AIDS (INP+), the first women to hold the position.\n\nJahnabi Goswami grew up in Kampur, Nagaon. Her father Hiranya Goswami was killed by ULFA militants in 1990. She was married off to a wealthy business man at the age of 17 in the winter of 1994. Her husband died of AIDS in April, 1996. Her husband had AIDS before marriage but this fact was concealed from Jahnabi. After the death of her husband, she was harassed, discriminated against and thrown out of her in-laws house and was not allowed to take her belongings and her daughter Kasturi with her. She got her belongings back and the custody of her daughter only after the intervention of the court and the police. Back in Nagaon, Jahnabi discovered that her husband had died of AIDS and that she too had been infected. Kasturi, who also had been infected, died in 1998 at the age of two.\n\nAfter the death of her daughter, Goswami moved to Guwahati and joined the government-run Assam State AIDS Control Society (ASACS). In 2002, Jahnabhi Goswami formed the Assam Network of Positive People (ANPP) with the help of Manipur Network of Positive People. ANPP aimed at building capacity and skills of people living with the virus and creating an enabling environment for them in society which if free from discrimination. ANPP has started a drop-in centre with free counseling and medicinal support to the patient and also provides referral services and free medical check-ups.\n\nGoswami held the position of the President of ANPP and is currently its treasurer. She also held the position of the General Secretary of The Indian Network of Positive People (INP+), the largest Network of people living with HIV/AIDS and is currently the President. She is the first women to be the President of INP+.\n\nGoswami has also been involved in the politics of the region. In 2006, Jahnabi Goswami was expected to be the Congress party’s candidate from the Barhampur assembly constituency in eastern Assam's Nagaon district against former Assam chief minister Prafulla Kumar Mahanta. But later her name was turned down. Jahnabi Goswami continued to campaign for the Congress party. She believes that through her active involvement in the election campaigns, not only can she help spread more awareness about the disease, but also make the people living with HIV/AIDS feel like they are an integral part of the society.\n\nGoswami’s work mainly deals with women and children living with or affected by HIV/AIDS. In 2012, ANPP, jointly with ASACS opened the Kasturi Special Care Home in Guwahati which offers free shelter, food and education to orphans infected and affected with HIV/AIDS .She has also been campaigning to make pre-marital HIV/AIDS tests mandatory.\n\nThe life of Goswami was also featured in a 2008 short documentary, Jahnabi’s World, directed by Debjani Mukherjee.\n\nGoswami was awarded the IBN7 Zindagi LIVE Awards in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "51309952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51309952", "title": "Jean-Charles Boisset", "text": "Jean-Charles Boisset\n\nJean-Charles Boisset (also known as JCB) is a French vintner and the proprietor of the Boisset Collection. Under Boisset's leadership, the Boisset Collection operates 24 wineries in California, France, and Canada.\n\nBoisset comes from a viticultural family. His father and mother founded a winery in Burgundy, France, in 1961. When a young Boisset visited Buena Vista Winery, in California, with his sister and grandparents, the 11 year old Boisset shared with his family that he wanted to live in America one day.\n\nBoisset moved to California in the early nineties and purchased his first winery, Lyeth Estates and in 1999 he co-founded Domaine de la Vougeraie with his sister, Nathalie. In 2003, Boisset purchased DeLoach Vineyards in California's Russian River Valley AVA, followed by Raymond Vineyards, located in Napa Valley, California, in 2009 and Buena Vista Winery, located in Sonoma, California, in 2011.\n\nJean-Charles Boisset is the son of Jean-Claude and Claudine Boisset, who founded their family winery, Jean-Claude Boisset, Burgundy, France in 1961. In 1964, the winery acquired its first vineyard, Les Evocelles in the Gevrey-Chambertin commune. Boisset was born in Vougeot, France in 1969.\n\nWhen Boisset was seven years old, he tried two wines from Burgundy: a 1969 Clos de Vougeot and a 1964 Bonnes Mares. He would eventually name a wine under his JCB label \"No. 7,\" as a tribute to the first time he tried wine.\n\nBoisset's grandparents were part of the French Resistance and his grandfather would go on to fight in World War II. His grandparents' involvement in the war led to their having a strong admiration for Americans, and as a child, Boisset remembers his grandparents telling him stories about the Americans who helped free France. His grandparents encouraged him to visit America and to dream to live there one day.\n\nAt the age of 11, Boisset and his sister Nathalie visited America in 1981 for the first time with his grandparents. They visited California, specifically Monterey, San Francisco, and Sonoma. Their grandparents took them on a tour of Buena Vista Winery and later that day, Boisset's grandparents let him and his sister try a Buena Vista Winery Chardonnay that they had purchased during the winery visit. Regarding that wine, Boisset said \"I was transfixed - such pure, elegant, and tropical notes that we did not know in Burgundy!\" After their visit to the winery, Boisset suggested to his sister that he hoped to one day own a winery in California. In 2011, he would purchase Buena Vista.\n\nAs a young man, Boisset was less interested in wine than other pursuits. He almost became a professional footballer. He studied business and finance at the University of London, followed by graduate studies at the University of California, Los Angeles. He earned a Masters of Business Administration from the University of San Francisco.\n\nBoisset was exposed to the wine industry at an early age. He was raised in his family's home near Clos de Vougeot and spent considerable time in the family's vineyards. In the early nineties, the Boisset family sought to close the office of Boisset America (now called the Boisset Collection) in San Francisco. Boisset chose to operate the office, relocating to San Francisco. Shortly thereafter, Boisset purchased his first California winery, Lyeth Estates. In 1999, Boisset and his sister, Nathalie Boisset, created Domaine de la Vougeraie from the family's estate in Côte de Nuits and Côte de Beaune. In 2003, Boisset purchased DeLoach Vineyards in California's Russian River Valley AVA, followed by Raymond Vineyards, located in Napa Valley, California, in 2009 and Buena Vista Winery, located in Sonoma, California, in 2011.\n\nIn total, the Boisset Collection includes 24 wineries in Burgundy, Beaujolais, the Rhône Valley, the South of France, Napa, Sonoma and Monterey, California, and Quebec. The family's estates are certified biodynamic and/or organic wine.\n\nBoisset is interested in small production wines that are made utilizing Burgundian winemaking techniques, including the use of pigeage, open-top fermentation, and terroir. His business style has been described as being a \"more consumer-driven, New World approach.\" As a wine drinker, Boisset has cited Pinot Noir as his favorite varietal and on his death bed he would drink a 2006 and a 2003 Clos du Vougeot Blanc.\n\nLyeth Estates was the first American winery purchased by Boisset.\n\nBoisset and his sister Nathalie founded Domaine de la Vougeraie in 1999, consolidating their family's vineyards in Burgundy. This consolidation included vineyards in the Clos de Vougeot. They also focused on maintaining, or introducing, sustainable farming to each vineyard. The same year as the founding of Domaine de la Vougeraie, Boisset made his first wine, working with 14 other people to process the grapes by hand. He produced two wines: a Clos du Vougeot Blanc and La Montée Rouge.\n\nLocated in the Russian River Valley AVA, DeLoach Vineyards was founded in 1975. Boisset acquired DeLoach Vineyards in 2003. DeLoach produces Chardonnay, Pinot Noir and Zinfandel in the Russian River Valley AVA in Sonoma County. The purchase has been described as a \"tribute,\" to Burgundy. Boisset has described the Russian River Valley as \"the next Côte d'Or.\" Brian Maloney serves as Director of Winemaking at DeLoach Vineyards.\n\nIn 2009, Boisset purchased Raymond Vineyards. The winery was founded in 1971 by Roy Raymond, Sr. and his two sons, Walter and Roy. Raymond's first vintage was in 1974. In 1989, Kirin Holdings purchased the winery, with the Raymond family still managing the property and production. Boisset purchased the property from Kirin. Stephanie Putnam was hired as Director of Winemaker in 2010. Putnam collaborates with Consulting Winemaker Philippe Melka to produce Raymond Vineyards wines.\n\nUnder Boisset's leadership, Raymond became a biodynamic producer. On-site is a 2-acre exhibition about biodynamic farming, called the Theater of Nature. The self-guided exhibit is the largest exhibit showcasing biodynamic practices in the region. It aims to teach guests about how biodynamic farming impacts Raymond Vineyards' wines via a five act theater-inspired exhibition. The Theater of Nature's gardens produce biodynamic and organic produce. The winery is also operated on 100% solar power.\n\nAdditionally, Raymond is known for the many \"experiences,\" offered to guests, including the \"Crystal Cellar,\" which features mannequins hanging from the ceiling, Baccarat crystal and silver made by Christofle. The \"red room,\" has a burlesque-style decor, with red velvet. The winery also has a dog friendly space named after Boisset's own dog, Frenchie.\n\nIn 2012, Raymond Vineyards earned \"Wine Enthusiast\" \"American Winery of the Year\" award. In 2014, the winery was named by Great Wine Capitals as the Regional Winner for \"Innovative Wine Tourism Experiences.\" Raymond Vineyards was named \"Best Unique Tasting Experience\" by CellarPass in 2014. The \"North Bay Bohemian\" named Raymond Vineyards the \"Best Winetasting Room\" in Napa Valley in 2015 and 2016 and for having the best Cabernet Sauvignon.\n\nIn late 2015, Raymond introduced , a label featuring a Napa Valley Chardonnay and a Napa Valley Cabernet Sauvignon created by Boisset, Stephanie Putnam, and singer-songwriter John Legend. In 2015, Legend performed at Auction Napa Valley, performing as part of Raymond Vineyards' auction lot, which helped to raise $850,000 for Napa Valley charities. The lot included six double magnums of LVE, dinner, and a private concert by Legend at Boisset's Napa Valley home. In 2016, the collaboration between Raymond Vineyards and Legend was awarded the inaugural \"Wine & Culture\" award by \"Wine Enthusiast\".\n\nBoisset purchased Buena Vista Winery, the oldest commercial winery in California, in 2011. It was the first American winery that Boisset had visited, when he was 11 years old. Upon purchasing Buena Vista, Boisset launched a major renovation of the property, which had suffered from disrepair. The historic champagne cellars, built in 1864, almost collapsed and needed to be repaired. Boisset hired contractors, including preservationists to assist with the renovations. The renovations completed, the winery began producing wine in the original cellars for the first time in 2015. Additionally, the winery has a wine tool museum and houses a \"Bubble Lounge,\" where guests can taste and purchase Boisset's JCB sparkling wine.\n\nBoisset has his own wine label, JCB. Each wine in the portfolio is named after a number, i.e. No. 3 JCB, similar to Chanel No. 5. JCB No. 39 is named after the year Boisset's grandparents were married. The label produces still and sparkling wine from France, mainly Burgundy and Provence, California, specifically Napa and Sonoma.\n\nA tasting lounge for JCB wines is located at DeLoach Winery, Raymond Vineyards and Buena Vista Winery. In 2015, JCB opened the JCB by Jean-Charles Boisset Tasting Lounge at the Ritz-Carlton San Francisco. Located in a room adjacent to the concierge desk, the lounge has a capacity of 10 guests and serves wine flights and food and wine pairings from the hotel's Parallel 37 restaurant. The lounge offers JCB wines and additional wines from Buena Vista and Domaine de la Vougeraie. The space has been described as an \"opulent French parlor,\" and \"over the top,\" due to the decor, which includes purple velvet couches, gold fringe stools, and leopard print carpet. Additionally, the lounge sells Goyard handbags, Baccarat products, and Boisset's collection of unisex brooches.\n\nIn 2016, Boisset opened the JCB Tasting Salon and Atelier by JCB in Yountville. Like the San Francisco-based lounge, wines are available in three different flights, with bottles available for take away purchase. The lounge has a digital touch table designed by Ideum, that guides guests through wine tastings and builds a wine profile based on guests preferred wines. The lounge is decorated with leopard print couches, and cheetah print stools. Mirrors framed in gold hang from the ceiling, along with Baccarat chandeliers. It sells luxury goods, including Baccarat crystal, Christofle silver, and Bernardaud porcelain. Additionally, it sells high end art books. The Atelier sells high end foods, including rare cheeses, meats, foie gras, smoked salmon and caviar. The Atelier is decorated with a Baccarat chandelier and gold leaf covered shelves. It was named the 2nd best place to shop in Napa Valley by \"USA Today\" and a cross between \"Fifth Avenue and Champs-Elysees\".\n\nUnder the JCB label, Boisset also produces The Surrealist, a Napa Valley red blend wine, decanters, and jewelry in one package. A piece of jewelry is used on the bottle in lieu of a traditional wine label, reflecting old world wine necklaces, and a Baccarat crystal stopper transforms the bottle into a decanter. A set, which includes a bottle of wine, the wine decanter and a brooch costs $500. The bottle can be reused as a decanter after it is emptied. The wine is a blend of Petit Verdot and Cabernet Sauvignon from eastern Napa Valley and St. Helena.\n\nBoisset has acknowledged that while glass wine bottles have \"romance and aesthetic,\" and the importance of glass for aging wine. However, he believes that alternative packaging \"helps to improve value, ecology and convenience.\" Boisset is interested in packaging that reduces carbon footprints while still providing a quality wine experience, especially in places where glass bottles are not allowed.\n\nAs the president of Boisset Collection, he is credited with the creation of French Rabbit, a wine brand that uses Tetrapaks instead of wine bottles. The brand sells approximately 150,000 cases a year in the United States and Canada. He also introduced Yellow Jersey, a wine brand sold in plastic bottles, using wine from Vin de Pays d'Oc. In 2011, Boisset introduced \"barrel-to-barrel,\" packaging at Raymond Vineyards and DeLoach. Similar to a boxed wine concept, 10- to 3-liter bags filled with wine can be placed in reusable barrels for restaurant/bar or home use. The empty bags weigh 99% lighter than a case of empty wine bottles, thus more affordable to ship, and the wine lasts longer.\n\nBoisset has also introduced a Beaujolais in an aluminum container called Mommessin. The wine is meant to be drunk chilled and the bottle turns blue when it is at the right drinking temperature. It takes 10 minutes to chill, versus 30 minutes in a glass bottle. He is also credited with being one of the first Burgundian vintners to use screwcaps instead of corks.\n\nBoisset met Gina Gallo, winemaker at Gallo Family Vineyards, in 2006 at a tasting room in Bordeaux. They were married in 2009 at the Fairmont San Francisco. The couple have twin girls, born in 2011.\n\nIn 2011, Boisset and Gallo purchased the former home of Robert Mondavi in Napa Valley. The family also has an apartment in the Nob Hill neighborhood of San Francisco and a home in Burgundy in France. The family travels to Burgundy several times a year, to spend time with Boisset's family and so their daughters can learn about the French culture.\n\nDespite both of their roles in the wine industry, Boisset and Gallo do not officially collaborate on wine projects.\n\nSince 2007, Boisset has been named to \"Decanter\"s Power List. In 2008, he was named \"Innovator of the Year\" by \"Wine Enthusiast\". In 2013, he was named one of the \"20 most admired people in the North American wine industry,\" by \"Vineyard & Winery Management\". That same year, Boisset was awarded the first ever recipient of the French-American Partnership of Excellence Award awarded by the French-American Foundation. In 2014, Boisset and Gallo were awarded the \"Global Entrepreneurship Award\" by John F. Kennedy University. That same year, he was the 2014 Jefferson Award Honoree from the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts. The following year, in 2015, Boisset was named an Honorary Chair of Sonoma Valley Wine Country Weekend. In 2015 and 2016, he was named to \"Haute Living\"'s San Francisco's Haute 100 list.\n\nBoisset's fashion sense has been described as \"theatrical,\" \"unpredictable,\" \"flamboyant\" and \"fantastical.\" He wears designer suits and jackets by Tom Ford, Gucci, and Lanvin. Additionally, he is an enthusiast of Louboutin shoes. His red socks have been described as his \"trademark.\" He was voted \"best dressed,\" in a 2014 reader's poll by the \"Nob Hill Gazette\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44935884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44935884", "title": "Joseph Gillis", "text": "Joseph Gillis\n\nJoseph E. Gillis (3 August 1911 – 18 November 1993) was an Israeli mathematician and one of the founders of the Faculty of Mathematics at the Weizmann Institute of Science, where he served as a Professor of Applied Mathematics. He made notable contributions to fractal sets, fluid dynamics, random walks, and pioneered the combinatorial theory of special functions of mathematical physics.\n\nGillis was born on 3 August 1911 in Great Britain. He studied at Trinity College, Cambridge, completing his doctoral thesis under A.S. Besicovitch in 1935. During World War II he worked in Bletchley Park as a cryptographer. He was a lecturer at the Maths faculty of Queen's University Belfast between 1937 and 1947.\n\nIn 1948 he immigrated to Israel and joined the Weizmann Institute of Science (then the Ziv Institute), where he, along with others, founded the Department of Applied Mathematics. He also served as the Academic Secretary. During the Academic Year 1954-1955 he visited the Institute for Advanced Study as part of the Electronic Computer Project headed by John von Neumann. He was very active in advancing mathematics education, and chaired the department of Science Teaching at the Weizmann Institute. He also started the Israel Mathematics Olympiad and coached the Israeli team for many years, as well as edited mathematics periodicals for high school students and amateurs.\n\nHe was married to Olga Kirsch and had two daughters. He died on 18 November 1993.\n"}
{"id": "31624746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31624746", "title": "List of Greenlanders", "text": "List of Greenlanders\n\nThe following is a list of notable people from Greenland:\n\n"}
{"id": "7897231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7897231", "title": "Mahmud Shevket Pasha", "text": "Mahmud Shevket Pasha\n\nMahmud Shevket Pasha (; 1856 – 11 June 1913) was an Ottoman general and statesman, known for his active role in establishing a military aviation program. He was prime minister of the Ottoman Empire from 23 January 1913 until his death by assassination. \n\nHe was born in Baghdad, where he finished his primary education before going on to the Military Academy () in Constantinople. He joined the army in 1882 as a lieutenant. He spent some time in France investigating military technology and was stationed in Crete for a while. He then returned to the Military Academy as a faculty member.\n\nHe worked under Colmar Freiherr von der Goltz (Goltz Pasha) for a while and traveled to Germany. He was then appointed as governor of the Kosovo Vilayet, where he commanded the 3rd Army, which was later known as \"Hareket Ordusu\" (\"Army of Action\") after its involvement in suppressing the counter-revolutionary absolutist reactionaries in the 31 March Incident. A voice recording of Mahmud Shevket Pasha speaking to rally his troops against the counter-revolutionaries in 1909 was released in by journalist Murat Bardakçı in 2012.\n\nHe played an important role in ending the 31 March Incident and with it, the reign of Abdul Hamid II. He served as Grand Vizier to Mehmed V from 23 January 1913. He was assassinated in Constantinople, on 11 June 1913 in a revenge attack by a relative of the murdered Nazım Pasha. \n\nAmong other things, he is credited with the creation of the Ottoman Air Force in 1911 and bringing the first automobile to Constantinople. Mahmud Shevket Pasha gave much importance to a military aviation program and as a result the Ottoman Air Force became one of the pioneering aviation institutions in the world.\n\nThough raised as a Turk, various sources claim that he may have also had Iraqi Arab, Georgian, Chechen, or Circassian ancestry.\n"}
{"id": "306461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306461", "title": "Maria Mies", "text": "Maria Mies\n\nMaria Mies (born 1931, Steffeln, Rhine Province, Prussia, Germany) is a German professor of sociology and author of several feminist books, including \"Indian Women and Patriarchy\" (1980), \"Patriarchy and Accumulation on a World Scale\" (1986), and (with Bennholdt-Thomsen and von Werlhof) \"Women: The Last Colony\" (1988).\n\nShe is Professor of Sociology at the Cologne University of Applied Sciences, which is a Fachhochschule in Cologne, Germany. She worked for many years in India. In 1979 she established the Women and Development programme at the Institute of Social Studies in The Hague, Netherlands. She has been active in the women's movement and in women's studies since the late 1960s. She has published several books and many articles on feminist, ecological and developing-world issues. One of her main concerns is the development of an alternative approach in methodology and in economics. Having retired from teaching in 1993, she continues to be active in the women's and other social movements; she is a member of feministAttac, a women network of Attac. She has published a book on the Multilateral Agreement on Investment and, with Veronika Bannholdt, has written a book on the subsistence perspective (from \"Patriarchy and Accumulation on a World Scale\"). She is married to the eco-socialist Saral Sarkar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18047059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18047059", "title": "Mussum", "text": "Mussum\n\nAntônio Carlos Bernardes Gomes (April 7, 1941 in Rio de Janeiro – July 29, 1994 in São Paulo), known artistically as Mussum ()) was a famous Brazilian actor and musician, notable for being a member of the comedic group Os Trapalhões. He was also member of the musical group Os Originais do Samba (The Originals of Samba).\n\nHe died due to complications after a heart transplant in 1994.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7347668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7347668", "title": "Nathan of Gaza", "text": "Nathan of Gaza\n\nNathan Benjamin ben Elisha Hayyim ha'Levi Ashkenazi / Ghazzati or Nathan of Gaza (; 1643–1680) was a theologian and author born in Jerusalem. After his marriage in 1663 he moved to Gaza, where he became famous as a prophet for the alleged messiah, Sabbatai Zevi.\n\nAlthough he is referred to by names such as Abraham Nathan ben Elisha Hayyim Ashkenazi or Rabbi Nathan Ashkenazi of Gaza, he is more commonly known as Nathan of Gaza. After studying Talmud and Kabbalah in his native town under Jacob Hagiz, he settled at Gaza, whence his name \"Ghazzati\". The fact of his father being a German Jew gave him the name of \"Ashkenazi\". As brilliant as he was as a kabbalistic theologian and as a student, Nathan of Gaza was also endowed with other remarkable characteristics that ultimately helped to promote the messianic claims surrounding Shabbetai Zevi. He was known, for example, for his prophetic visions as well as for his ideological and radical views, all of which helped to shape the eventual mystical movement around Shabbethai Zevi. His visionary capabilities in particular not only constructed the foundations for Sabbateanism, but they also aided him in discovering the group’s historical figure, Shabbetai Zevi.\n\nNathan of Gaza was born in Jerusalem around 1643-1644; he died on Friday, January 11, 1680 in Macedonia. Although he grew up in Jerusalem, his parents were not born in Ottoman Syria. On the contrary, they had immigrated from Poland or Germany. His father, Elisha Hayyim ben Jacob, was a distinguished rabbinic intellectual who served as an envoy of Jerusalem collecting donations for impoverished Jews. During his travels, he would distribute kabbalistic works, which he had obtained in Jerusalem. Upon settling in Ottoman Palestine, Elisha Hayyim ben Jacob took on the surname \"Ashkenazi\" as a means of differentiating his family and himself from the largely Sephardic inhabitants of the Ottoman province. He died in Morocco in 1673.\n\nPrior to his father’s death, Nathan of Gaza began studying under Jacob Hagiz. The relationship between these two religious devotees would continue for many years. In fact, Nathan of Gaza would spend a majority of his life – up until about 1664 – with his teacher at a rabbinic college. During this academic period, documents were written that described his interest in and persistence towards academic work. It is said that he was “…an extremely gifted student, of quick apprehension and a brilliant intellect. His talents…[were] noteworthy for their rare combination of intellectual power and capacity for profound thinking with imagination and strong emotional sensitivity…” In and of itself, Nathan of Gaza was an extremely gifted pupil. His intellectual brilliance and his intense focus on his studies, however, did not limit or prevent him – as occurs with most intensely devoted religious individuals –from experiencing many of the Jewish rites of passage. In fact, at the age of nineteen or twenty, he married the daughter of an affluent Jew named Samuel Lissabona. The nuptials were believed to have taken place before the end of the year 1663, when he joined his wife’s family in Gaza. There, he was able to focus considerably on his religious studies.\n\nIt is upon moving to the area of Gaza that Nathan of Gaza began to take up a more in-depth study of Kabbalah. Only upon delving into the mysterious realm of Jewish mysticism did he begin to embark on mystical experiences. An example of such a transformative incident can be seen with his prophetic awakening, which he describes in a letter written in 1673:\n\"When I had attained the age of twenty, I began to study the book Zohar and some of the Lurianic writings. [According to the Talmud] he who wants to purify himself receives the aid of Heaven; and thus He sent me some of His holy angels and blessed spirits who revealed to me many of the mysteries of the Torah. In that same year, my force having been stimulated by the visions of the angels and the blessed souls, I was undergoing a prolonged fast in the week before the feast of Purim. Having locked myself in a separate room in holiness and purity…the spirit came over me, my hair stood on end and my knees shook and I beheld the merkabah, and I saw visions of God all day long and all night…\"\nThis vision lasted approximately twenty-four hours and was said to have had a powerful impact on his overall perception of reality as well as his entire self. While the revelation was overpowering and transformative, it was the only visual moment where Nathan of Gaza felt that he was a true prophet. Nevertheless, in addition to his physical and mental alteration, there was another important component to the vision: Nathan of Gaza believed that a man by the name of Shabbetai Zevi was the messiah. This strong belief in Shabbetai Zevi as the next leader of the Jewish people marked the initiation of the first Sabbatean believer, Nathan of Gaza. It also constituted the beginning of the Sabbatean movement itself.\n\nNathan of Gaza’s prophecy about Shabbetai Zevi was not his only mental visualization. On the contrary, as the years passed, he would have many other visions, all of which would aid his movement and promote the belief in Shabbetai Zevi. His second vision in fact came on the evening of the Shavu’ot festival in the spring of 1665. Unlike his prophetic awakening, here, Nathan of Gaza was said to have undergone a spiritual possession by a maggid, or a divine spirit. At the moment of this spiritual takeover, he was described as dancing wildly and emitting a special kind of odor. This smell is described in the Zohar and is believed to be associated with the scent of the Garden of Eden as well as of the prophet Elisha and Rabbi Isaac Luria.\nWhile the vision itself is significantly different from that of the prophetic awakening, it does contain several similarities. One of the parallels is that of transformation. Like the prophetic awakening, as soon as the maggidic possession ended, Nathan of Gaza underwent a kind of alteration. Unlike the first vision, this change was not physical or mental. On the contrary, it was one that involved the perception of Nathan of Gaza by the Jewish community. He became viewed by others as a prophet and as a spiritual \"doctor\". The public’s acknowledgement of Nathan of Gaza as a mystic and as a seer in particular allowed there to be later on an immediate acceptance of Shabbetai Zevi as the next messiah. In general, it is the use of prophecies that plays a central role in this particular movement. In fact, the numerous predictions made by Nathan of Gaza and even Shabbetai Zevi himself caused a significant part of the contemporary Jewish community to become Sabbatean followers.\n\nAs previously mentioned, Nathan of Gaza envisioned Shabbetai Zevi as the next messiah for the Jewish people. However, Shabbetai Zevi’s acceptance of this messianic role was not instantaneous. In fact, his first encounter with Nathan of Gaza was not about his position as the next Jewish savior, but rather as a \"patient\" to a \"doctor\". At the time, Nathan of Gaza was becoming well known as a spiritual physician. Shabbetai Zevi visited him in hopes of “curing” him from an illness that he had contracted. It turns out, of course, that Shabbetai Zevi suffered from a psychological condition which Gershom Scholem identified as manic-depressive psychosis, today normally called \"bipolar syndrome\". Instead of trying to aid him with his psychological sickness, Nathan of Gaza divulged to Shabbetai Zevi his prophetic vision. Initially, when “…Nathan addressed him as the messiah, ‘he laughed at him and said, ‘I had it [the messianic vocation], but have sent it away.’’” It was only through intense discussion and much persuasion that he was able to sway Shabbetai Zevi into accepting his messianic mission. Then, in May 1665, Shabbetai Zevi made the decision that would place Nathan of Gaza and himself in the public sphere forever. He exposed himself to the world as the true savior.\n\nIn December 1665, Shabbetai Zevi and Nathan of Gaza parted ways. Shabbetai Zevi embarked on a journey to Turkey where he would begin to advocate his newfound position as the Jewish savior. They would not see each other again until after Shabbetai Zevi's later conversion to Islam. Thus, from the fall of 1665 until the summer of 1666, the two worked arduously on the next stage of their movement: convincing the world that Shabbetai Zevi was the messiah.\n\nSeeing that the rabbis of Jerusalem were very hostile to the Shabbethaian movement, Ghazzati proclaimed Gaza to be henceforth the holy city. He first spread about the Messiah's fame by sending circulars from Palestine to the most important communities in Europe. Then he visited several of the chief cities in Europe, Africa, and India, and finally returned to Palestine. Even after Shabbethai Ẓebi's apostasy Ghazzati did not desert his cause; but, thinking it unsafe to remain in Palestine any longer, he made preparations to go to Smyrna. The rabbis, seeing that the credulous were confirmed anew in their belief, excommunicated all the Shabbethaians, and particularly Ghazzati (Dec 9, 1666), warning everybody against harboring or even approaching him. After a stay of a few months at Smyrna he went (end of April, 1667) to Adrianople, where, in spite of his written promise that he would remain quiet, he continued his agitation. He urged the Shabbethaians of Adrianople to proclaim their adhesion to the cause by abolishing the fasts of the 17th of Tammuz and the 9th of Ab.\n\nAgain excommunicated at Adrianople, he went with a few followers to Thessaloniki. There he met with scant welcome, but had more success in the communities of Chios and Corfu. From Corfu he went to Venice (March, 1668), where the rabbinate and the council of the city compelled him to give them a written confession that all his prophecies were the production of his imagination. The confession was published, whereupon Abraham ha-Yakini, the originator of the Shabbethaian movement, wrote Ghazzati a letter in which he condoled with him over his persecution and expressed his indignation at the acts of the Venetian rabbinate. The Venetian Jews then induced Ghazzati to set out for Livorno, where the Jewish population was known to be inimical to him. They sent an escort with him, ostensibly as a mark of honor, but in reality to prevent him from going elsewhere. He divined their motives in sending him to Livorno, however, and, succeeding in eluding his escort, proceeded to Rome. In spite of his disguise he was recognized there, and was banished from the city. He then went to Livorno voluntarily, and even there made converts to his cause. From Livorno he returned to Adrianople, and seems to have spent the remainder of his days in travel.\n\nOne of the ways in which Nathan of Gaza was able to persuade the Jewish community about Shabbetai Zevi and Sabbateanism was through his writings. He composed a variety of letters and other written documents that promoted an entirely new kind of theology, one that merged the current notions of Kabbalah (of the time) with elements of Lurianic mysticism, a subject that he studied when he was younger. In addition to creating a “new type” of mysticism, he also composed a document entitled \"Derush ha-Tanninim\" (“Treatise on Dragons”; published by Scholem in \"be-Iqvot Mashiah\" [Jerusalem, 1944]). This article stressed the notion of a “New Law” in which the old positive and negative commandments of the Torah were eliminated. This became the basis for what Gershom Scholem later referred to as “Sabbatean antinomianism.”\n\nNot only did Nathan of Gaza publish documents that advocated for a change and a removal of the Jewish laws and commandments, but he also composed a variety of other texts that discussed concepts entirely different from these unorthodoxies. For example, he wrote \"Hadrat Kodesh\" (Constantinople, 1735), a Kabbalistic commentary on the Book of Genesis, particularly on the aspect of creation. Several years later, Nathan of Gaza published \"Ozar Nehmad\" (Venice, 1738), a supplement to the \"Hadrat Kodesh\". In addition to these contributions, he was mistakenly believed to be the author of the \"Hemdat Yamim\", a guidebook for the performance of ritual practices as well as prayers. As evident from these alternative spiritual manuscripts, Nathan of Gaza was not solely a devout Sabbatean follower and believer; he was one who strived to provide an alternative perspective and understanding to the Jewish faith.\n\nHe also wrote \"Peri 'EtzHadar,\" prayers for the 15th of Shebat (ib. 1753), and \"Tiqqun Qeri'ah,\" an ascetic work according to Shabbethaian doctrines (Amsterdam, 1666). His account of his travels was translated into German by M. Horschetzky and published in \"Orient, Lit.\" ix. 170-172, 299-301.\n\nOverall, the documents that Nathan of Gaza produced and presented were both positively and negatively received by the Jewish community. Some of the rabbis in Jerusalem, for example, were divided over the ideas that Nathan of Gaza wrote. A number of them felt that these written records were sacrilegious; they defied the basic tenets of the Jewish faith. Nevertheless, the composition of these texts provided for a further platform in which Shabbetai Zevi and Nathan of Gaza could promote their Sabbatean ideologies.\n\nOn Friday, January 11, 1680 in Üsküp, Ottoman Empire (now Skopje, Republic of Macedonia), Nathan of Gaza died. According to other version he died in Sofia, Ottoman Empire (now Sofia, Republic of Bulgaria) but his body was transferred to Üsküp and buried here. It is presumed also, he could have died traveling from Sofia to Üsküp. It is understood that upon arriving into Üsküp that day, he immediately requested that several gravediggers construct his grave. He told these men that he was about to expire and wanted to be prepared so that in the instance of his death, his burial could occur prior to the start of the Sabbath. Then, as he predicted, “‘[w]hile he was still in [a] rabbi’s house he fell down and died, and the members of the congregation buried him with great honor.’” While the death of the prophet was a tragic event for his followers, his burial place was a pilgrimage site after his death, but it would not become a permanent pilgrimage site, since it survived only until World War II, when it was destroyed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "846466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=846466", "title": "Patrick McKenna", "text": "Patrick McKenna\n\nPatrick McKenna (born May 8, 1960) is a Canadian comedian and actor. He is best known for playing Harold Green on the television series \"The Red Green Show\".\n\nPatrick McKenna became interested in Second City when a high-school teacher took him to a show at Second City Toronto. After he graduated from high school, he attended Sheridan College, graduating with a business degree in 1982. To help with tuition, he worked his way to being night manager at Second City, learning how improv worked. In 1983 he auditioned successfully for the main stage. During the 1980s he tried his hand at standup and spent 5 years performing his act in Canada and the US.\n\nOne night at Second City during the late 1980s, McKenna received the acting-job offer which would change his life. Steve Smith was recruiting cast members, especially a sidekick, for his new project, \"The Red Green Show\". He had come to Second City and was scoping out the entire troupe, but when Patrick did his twitchy-nerd character, Smith knew he had his sidekick. He approached McKenna after the show, and he accepted the part. This twitchy nerd character would be seen on television screens throughout Canada and the US for the next 15 years as the lovable nephew Harold Green on \"The Red Green Show\".\n\nMcKenna's main acting role was that of Harold Green in the popular television comedy \"The Red Green Show\". He also played Marty Stephens on \"Traders\", working alongside future Stargate SG-1 and Stargate Atlantis star, British-born Canadian actor David Hewlett and McKenna also starred in the \"Trudeau\" miniseries.\n\nFor his work on \"Traders\" and \"The Red Green Show\", McKenna received two Gemini awards. He is the only Canadian actor to receive these for drama and comedy in the same year, winning them at the 13th Gemini Awards on 4 October 1998.\n\nMcKenna was the subject of the PBS Documentary \"ADD and Loving It?!\" In 2006 McKenna played producer Jeffrey Littleman on the short-lived CBC television series \"Getting Along Famously\". He also voices Robear on \"Iggy Arbuckle\".\n\nIn 2007 he appeared in the pilot of \"Sabbatical\". He stars as Victor in indie horror film \"Silent But Deadly\".\n\nMcKenna guest starred in two episodes of \"Stargate SG-1\" playing Dr. Jay Felger, first in the Season 6 episode \"The Other Guys\" and then in the Season 7 episode \"Avenger 2.0\".\n\nIn late 2011 he played the politician and Canadian Confederation leader Alexander Galt in the CBC TV movie \"John A: Birth of a Country\".\n\nBetween 2011 and 2013, McKenna was featured as a voice actor on the Teletoon animated series \"Crash Canyon\".\n\nAs of 2012, McKenna is still active in acting, live speakings, and charitable work. He occasionally can be seen as Mr. Telson on the TV series \"Wingin It\", and in the television series \"Hard Rock Medical\". He appeared in the first episode of the third season, and the first two episodes of the eighth season of \"Murdoch Mysteries\" as Detective, and later Inspector, Hamish Slorach.\n\nIn recent years, McKenna has become involved with many charity organizations—including Wheelchair athletes, Adult ADHD, MS Society, Lupus Canada and McMaster Sick Kids—some of which he has personal connection.\n\nMcKenna suffered a debilitating back injury in the early 2000s that left him unable to walk for a year. He went through times being in a wheelchair and having to learn to walk again. It was from this experience that he became involved with Wheelchair athletes.\n\nHis mother, Patricia, suffers from lupus. She has been suffering from the condition since the 1970s. McKenna's friend and fellow Second City alumn Colin Mochrie and his wife, Debra McGrath, are often seen helping McKenna with lupus charity fundraising.\n\nMcKenna has ADD/ADHD and was not diagnosed until he was well into his forties. He has become somewhat of spokesman on this condition in Canada through his personal struggles. McKenna and Rick Green, a writer and performer for \"The Red Green Show\", made a documentary to explain some of ADD/ADHD's positives and negatives titled \"ADD and Loving It.\" Both men open up about how it has affected them and their relationships. McKenna's wife, Janis, is also interviewed during the documentary and goes through the diagnosing process on camera with Patrick.\n\nMcKenna is a member of Toronto's \"The Second City\" comedy troupe.\n\nMcKenna's mother's name is Patricia, and he has three brothers.\nHe married his high school sweetheart, Janis, in 1983. They have a son, Brendon, born in 1985.\n\nBrendon McKenna was also seen in two episodes, \"Dancing with Mr. D.\" and \"The Unseen Lever\", of his father's series \"Traders\" as Marty's son, Mark Stephens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "652375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=652375", "title": "Piotr Wilniewczyc", "text": "Piotr Wilniewczyc\n\nPiotr Wilniewczyc (1887–1960) was a Polish engineer and arms designer. Among his most successful designs were the Vis-35 pistol, commonly known as the Radom for the arsenal in which it was produced, and the Mors submachine gun.\n\nPiotr Wilniewczyc was born 31 January 1887 near Irkutsk in Siberia. He grew up in Vilna (now Vilnius, Lithuania). In 1905 he moved to Saint Petersburg, Russia, and studied at the University of St. Petersburg institute of mathematics and physics. He continued his studies in the Lwów Polytechnic department of chemistry. In 1915 Wilniewczyc also graduated from artillery school in St. Petersburg.\n\nIn 1921 he accepted employment at the Boryszew Gunpowder Factory near Sochaczew, Poland. From 1924 to 1928, Wilniewczyc also lectured at the Artillery Officers' School in Toruń. In 1928 he began work as director of the ballistics department at the State Arms Factories (\"Państwowe Wytwórnie Uzbrojenia\"), holding this post until war broke out in September 1939.\n\nHis most successful project was the Vis-35 pistol, a standard Polish prewar military pistol. He also designed the Mors submachine gun, which did not enter production due to the outbreak of war. After the war, he directed a team that designed the Rak wz. 63 submachine gun, completed after his death.\n\nDuring the war, Wilniewczyc worked with the Home Army in Warsaw, developing a silencer for the Sten gun. After the Warsaw Uprising he moved to Łódź and soon began lecturing at the Łódź Polytechnic. From 1948 he also worked at the reopened Warsaw Polytechnic.\n\nWilniewczyc died on 23 December 1960 and was interred at Warsaw's Powązki Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "25112136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25112136", "title": "Qajar dynasty family tree", "text": "Qajar dynasty family tree\n"}
{"id": "4901717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4901717", "title": "Richard Plant (writer)", "text": "Richard Plant (writer)\n\nRichard Plant (July 22, 1910 – March 3, 1998) was a gay Jewish emigre from Nazi Germany first to Switzerland and then to the U.S. who became a professor at the City University of New York, where he taught German language and literature from 1947 to 1973. He authored a number of fictional and non-fictional works as well as an opera scenario.\n\nRichard Plant was born Richard Plaut in Frankfurt am Main to Meta and Theodor Plaut, a practicing physician who served for many years as a Social Democratic city council alderman. While his parents were religiously non-observant and largely assimilated, his paternal grandfather, Dr. Rudolf Plaut, was a Reform rabbi. Despite his parents' secular outlook, he was briefly involved as a 16-year-old with Kadimah, a Zionist youth organization, where he experienced his first sexual encounters. His godfather was Kurt Goldstein, a professor of neurology at the recently founded University of Frankfurt, which had a reputation as Germany's most left-wing university and also had the highest percentage of Jewish students and professors of any German university. Goldstein, a Gestalt therapist, helped the youngster overcome his stuttering to a large extent and also counseled his parents to accept his sexual orientation.\n\nFollowing his secondary schooling at Frankfurt's noted Goethe Gymnasium, Plaut enrolled in 1929 at the University of Frankfurt, where he studied German literature and European history. In a seminar on baroque literature taught by Martin Sommerfeld, he made the acquaintance of Oskar Koplowitz, beginning a friendship they maintained when they later emigrated from Germany to Switzerland and the U.S. He attended courses taught by the philosopher and Protestant theologian Paul Tillich and through him became acquainted with the sociologists Theodor Adorno and Norbert Elias. Literature, theater, and the cinema were his primary interests, and his earliest publications, film reviews edited by Siegfried Kracauer, appeared in the left-liberal daily \"Frankfurter Rundschau\". He also appeared on stage as an extra in Schauspielhaus productions of plays by Fritz von Unruh and Carl Zuckmayer. In the fall of 1930, Plaut briefly transferred to the University of Berlin, where in addition to continuing his studies for one semester he wrote cultural commentaries for various newspapers and worked as an extra in UFA films, including \"The Threepenny Opera\". In Berlin he was introduced to Klaus Mann, whose openly gay novel \"Der fromme Tanz\" (1925) he greatly admired. Returning to the University of Frankfurt in 1931, he remained active as a journalist and theater extra at a time when courses taught by Jewish professors, including Sommerfeld, were increasingly disrupted by Nazi students. Plant hoped to write a doctoral dissertation on the formula novelist Hedwig Courths-Mahler, but when Sommerfeld rejected this thesis proposal, he decided to transfer again, this time to Basel.\n\nOn February 28, 1933, coincidentally the day following the Reichstag fire, Plaut departed by train for Switzerland, where he was joined a few months later by Koplowitz. They initially regarded the move as a temporary transfer, not a permanent emigration, and expected to return to Frankfurt once the Nazis were turned out of office. Plaut's father was arrested as a socialist in February 1933 but soon released from custody, and his parents emigrated to California, where they had relatives. Suffering from breast cancer, his mother wanted to spend her final days in her homeland, so his parents returned to Frankfurt, where she died in 1934. During Plaut's Swiss years, his sister Elisabeth emigrated to the Netherlands, where she married the artist and illustrator Leopold Meter (1909–1944). His father entered a second marriage with the widow Elli (née Friedländer) Katzenstein (1884–1938) and, reckoning with protection in Nazi Germany from former patients who were now highly placed officials, made the fateful decision to remain in Germany. Theodor and Elli Plaut committed suicide shortly after the Kristallnacht in November 1938.\nWhile Plaut and Koplowitz enrolled at the University of Basel in 1933, Koplowitz's partner Dieter Cunz, a gentile, initially remained in Frankfurt but after completing his Ph.D. in 1934 also relocated to Switzerland. Hard pressed financially and constrained in Swiss employment by their student visas, Plaut and Koplowitz, along with Cunz, relied on writing as their primary source of income. Under the collective pen-name Stefan Brockhoff, they coauthored three detective novels that were published in Nazi Germany. In addition, Plaut authored under his own name a young readers’ book, \"Die Kiste mit dem großen S.\" (1936), which was published in Switzerland and also appeared in Dutch translation. He wrote numerous film reviews for Basel's \"National-Zeitung\", and using the pseudonym Richard Plant he even authored some articles published in newspapers in Nazi Germany.\n\nPlaut and Koplowitz both completed the Ph.D. in German literature at Basel with dissertations written under the supervision first of Franz Zinkernagel and then, following his death in 1935, Eduard Hoffmann-Krayer. Koplowitz's 1936 dissertation analyzed the Naturalistic theater work of the leftist German Jewish director Otto Brahm, while Plaut's 1937 dissertation examined the sexually charged themes and psychological narrative style of the recently deceased Austrian Jewish physician and author Arthur Schnitzler. Following his dissertation, Plaut's next non-fiction book was a compact introduction to the cinema, including formal analysis as well as an international survey of films, entitled \"Taschenbuch des Films\" (1938), based on a course he taught at the Basel \"Volkshochschule\". Since their student visas lapsed with the completion of the Ph.D. and they were not granted work permits or immigrant status, Plaut and Koplowitz found it increasingly difficult to remain in Switzerland. Together with Cunz, they decided to seek to emigrate to the U.S. This required mobilizing all available resources and connections, including affidavits of sponsorship by relatives in the U.S. and letters of recommendation written by Paul Tillich and Martin Sommerfeld, both recent emigres now teaching at U.S. universities.\n\nFollowing his 1938 arrival in New York, Plaut Americanized his name to Richard Rene Plant, and Koplowitz changed his name to Seidlin. They coauthored \"S.O.S. Geneva\", an English-language young readers' book with a cosmopolitan and pacifistic theme published in October 1939, just before the outbreak of World War II. Through the Friendship House, Plant developed first contacts with native New Yorkers, and he also sought employment by networking within New York's burgeoning community of German emigres, some of whom communicated in the pages of the left-wing German Jewish weekly \"Aufbau\". During 1941–42 he was employed by the recently arrived emigre Klaus Mann as an editorial assistant for the antifascist journal \"Decision\", and he also worked for the recently arrived emigre Siegfried Kracauer. Following the American entry into World War II, Plant finally found steady employment for three years as a propaganda scriptwriter, translator, and broadcaster for the U.S. Office of War Information and for NBC. He enjoyed life as a gay man during the war years, which brought a steady stream of unattached young men in uniform to New York.\n\nFollowing the end of World War II, Plant and his friends went separate ways when Seidlin and Cunz held professorships in German studies in Massachusetts and Maryland, respectively, and later, together as a gay couple, at Ohio State University, where they rose to considerable prominence (in a signal honor, OSU's building for foreign languages and literatures was posthumously named after Cunz). Plant remained in New York, where in 1947 he was hired by the City College of the City University of New York. Although he was successful enough as a classroom teacher to be granted tenure in 1957 and promotion to full professor in 1970, Plant struggled with condescending colleagues who disparaged his lack of scholarly publications. He resided in Greenwich Village, and summer holidays were spent with his friends Seidlin and Cunz in the mountains at Mallnitz, Austria, or on the beach at Manomet, Massachusetts, where they hobnobbed with the vacationing Hannah Arendt.\n\nTo complete work on his highly autobiographical novel \"The Dragon in the Forest\" (1948), Plant was awarded a Eugene F. Saxton Memorial Trust Fellowship, for which he was recommended by Norman Cousins. The book centers on a young man growing up in Frankfurt who is witness to the rise of the Nazis and whose best boyhood friend becomes a victim of Fritz Haarmann. In 1956, Plant published an essay and the first of five short stories under the pseudonym Orlando Gibbons in the Swiss gay periodical \"Der Kreis\". The essay commented on the anti-gay dimension of the McCarthy witch hunt of the preceding years, while the stories \"are charming, happy-ending vignettes of gay life in New York City and Massachusetts, two of them with interesting black/white encounters. Especially touching is the story of a white boy who, despite his Southern upbringing, discovers that he can love a black man.\" From time to time Plant's book reviews on current German fiction, including the novels of Heinrich Böll and Günter Grass, were published in the \"New York Times\", \"Saturday Review\", \"The Nation\", \"Esquire\", and other periodicals. The year 1965 saw the premiere of the opera \"Lizzie Borden\", for which he had written the scenario. He regarded this as one of his foremost accomplishments.\n\nFollowing his retirement from university teaching in 1973, Plant was able to devote more time to his own interests, although he continued to teach occasional courses on German literature in translation at the New School for Social Research. Impressed by the formation of the Gay Academic Union and historical studies sparked by the gay liberation movement, he joined Senior Action in a Gay Environment and embarked upon his most ambitious writing project, a history of the persecution of gay men under the Nazi regime. As a gay man driven from Germany by the Nazis, he approached this topic as a matter of honor, and the book opens and closes with an autobiographical prologue and epilogue. In the course of his research, he traveled to Arolsen, Germany, to examine the concentration camp archives assembled there. His magnum opus, \"The Pink Triangle: The Nazi War against Homosexuals\", was published in 1986, and it was translated into German five years later, leading to a successful book tour in Germany.\n\nPlant's companion during his final years was Michael Sasse. Plant experienced major depression and was treated with electroshock therapy. He died in New York City on March 3, 1998. His papers are preserved in the Manuscripts and Archives Division of the New York Public Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9109319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9109319", "title": "Rickey Dixon", "text": "Rickey Dixon\n\nRickey Dixon (born December 26, 1966) is a former cornerback and special teams player for the Oklahoma Sooners and later the National Football League’s Cincinnati Bengals and Los Angeles Raiders.\n\nA standout defensive back at Wilmer-Hutchins High School in Dallas, Dixon came to Norman to play for the Sooners in 1984. He played in the 1985, 1986, 1987, and 1988 Orange Bowls, in two National Championship games, and was a key figure in Oklahoma's 1985 National Championship win over Penn State in the 1986 Orange Bowl.\n\nA consensus All-American in 1987, Dixon was the first Sooner to win the Jim Thorpe Award, given to the top defensive back in the country. He shared the Award with Miami's Bennie Blades. He won all-conference honors in 1986 and 1987.\n\nThe defining game of Dixon's collegiate career was the 1987 contest against the Nebraska Cornhuskers. Hyped as the \"Game of the Century II\", playing on the moniker given the 1971 contest between Oklahoma and Nebraska, Nebraska was favored at home in Lincoln, boasting the #1 offense in the country.\n\nThe Sooners came in ranked #2 in the nation, and sporting the #1 defense in the country. Nebraska quarterback Steve Taylor came into the game boasting that the Sooners could not compete against the Cornhuskers. It was Dixon's two interceptions of Taylor in the game (one to set up a short touchdown drive, and one late in the fourth quarter to seal the win) that put the Cornhuskers away and guaranteed Oklahoma a shot at the Miami Hurricanes in the 1988 Orange Bowl. In the Orange Bowl, Dixon had another key interception to set up a Sooner touchdown drive in a game that Miami eventually won, 20-14.\n\nDixon finished his career with 170 total tackles and 17 interceptions (second only to Darrell Royal for the school record). During his senior year, he had nine interceptions for 232 yards which remain school records for the Sooners.\n\nThe Cincinnati Bengals selected Dixon with the fifth pick of the 1988 NFL Draft. He had one interception during his first season with the Bengals. Although relegated to special teams, Dixon played in Super Bowl XXIII against the San Francisco 49ers.\n\nDixon was traded to the Los Angeles Raiders prior to the 1993 season.\n\nAfter retiring from the NFL, Dixon coached for W.T White High School and Paul Quinn College, and retired from being a physical education teacher at Red Oak High School in Red Oak, Texas in May 2007. Dixon was diagnosed with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis in 2014. \n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Tackle data unavailable before 2001\n\n"}
{"id": "7789132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7789132", "title": "Roger Cicero", "text": "Roger Cicero\n\nRoger Marcel Cicero Ciceu (6 July 1970 – 24 March 2016) was a German jazz and pop musician.\n\nRoger Cicero was born in 1970 in Berlin to Romanian jazz pianist Eugen Cicero and dancer Lili Cziczeo.\n\nHe made his first stage appearance at the age of eleven as a support act for Swiss singer Helen Vita and was first on television aged 16, alongside the RIAS-Tanzorchester, then under the direction of Horst Jankowski. Cicero joined the Hohner Conservatory in Trossingen when he was 18, where he received coaching in piano, guitar and singing. Between 1989 and 1992, he appeared alongside the Horst Jankowski Trio, the Eugen Cicero Trio (his father’s group) as well as with the Bundesjugendjazzorchester (German Youth Jazz Orchestra), then directed by Peter Herbolzheimer. From 1991 to 1996, he studied jazz singing at the Amsterdam Academy of Arts (Amsterdamse Hogeschool voor de Kunsten) at Hilversum. He was a guest singer with the groups Jazzkantine and Soulounge with whom he took part in the Montreux Jazz Festival. In 2003, he founded the Roger Cicero Quartet, as well as continuing to perform with his eleven-piece big band. His style is predominantly that of 1940s and 1950s swing music, combined with German lyrics.\n\nIn 2006, Cicero sang on jazz pianist Julia Hülsmann's album \"Good Morning Midnight\" and released his first solo album \"Männersachen\". He worked alongside thirteen composers (predominantly Matthias Haß and Frank Ramond). \"Schieß mich doch zum Mond\" is the German version of Frank Sinatra’s \"Fly Me to the Moon\". The covered track \"Zieh die Schuh aus\" (Take your shoes off), reached number 71 in the German singles chart. The album \"Männersachen\" made it to number three.\n\nCicero represented Germany at the Eurovision Song Contest 2007 in Helsinki his song \"Frauen regier'n die Welt\" (Women rule the world). He finished 19th. \n\nOn 7 July 2007 he performed at the German leg of Live Earth in Hamburg. On 1 May 2008 he became father to a son, Louis.\n\nCicero made his film debut in \"Hilde\" (2009) as musician Ricci Blum. Directed by Kai Wessel, the film is a biography of the German singer and actress Hildegard Knef, played by Heike Makatsch. Cicero also provided the singing and speaking voice of Prince Naveen in the German soundtrack for the 2009 Disney film The Princess and the Frog (German: \"Küss den Frosch\"). \n\nOn 20 March 2009 the single \"Nicht Artgerecht\" was released, taken from his third studio album, \"Artgerecht\", that was released on 3 April 2009.\n\nHe sang at a concert in honor of the Dalai Lama in August 2009 in Frankfurt.\n\nCicero and his Big Band headlined at the Montreux Jazz Festival in Switzerland on 12 July 2010. This performance introduced an English version of his song \"Murphy's Gesetz\" (Murphy’s Law), and \"That you and I feeling\", a new version of his song \"Ich hab das Gefühl für dich verlor'n\". The concert was released on DVD as \"Roger Cicero - Live at Montreux 2010\".\n\nIn October 2010 Cicero published a book, \"Weggefährten: Meine Songs fürs Leben\" (Companions: My Songs for Life) in which he describes the history and personal meaning of songs by artists including the Beatles, Prince and Stevie Wonder. The book describes Cicero’s youth in West Berlin, his musical studies in the Netherlands, and a formative trip he made as a teenager with his father to his paternal family’s native Romania.\n\nAfter appearing in promotional talks for \"Weggefährten\" at the Frankfurt Book Fair, Cicero toured with his pianist and musical director Lutz Krajenski. The Roger Cicero Solo programme featured the duo performing songs from their albums, including jazz numbers Cicero and Krajenski recorded as part of the group After Hours. Along with swing and jazz, they played rock and soul songs in English and German, and presented new arrangements of \"Every little thing she does is Magic\",\"What’s Going On\", \"Let’s Stay Together\", and Prince’s \"Forever in My Life\". In some songs Cicero played piano and guitar as well.\n\nCicero's song \"Für nichts auf dieser Welt\" (For nothing in this world), from his fourth album \"In diesem Moment\" was chosen by the German football association as the official fan song to support the German team for the Euro 2012 tournament. Cicero performed the song at a Germany-Israel friendly football match in Leipzig on 31 May 2012.\n\nIn December 2012, Cicero appeared along with the American actor and singer Robert Davi in the French/German Arte TV program \"Durch die Nacht mit...\". The episode was shot in the Little Italy area of New York City and features conversation between Cicero and Davi and solos of Sinatra standards by both performers.\n\nIn 2014 he was one of the stars of the Vox television show \"Sing meinen Song – Das Tauschkonzert\" (Sing my song - the exchange concert) along with Xavier Naidoo, Sasha, Andreas Gabalier, Sandra Nasić and Gregor Meyle.\n\nCicero released two albums in 2015. \"The Roger Cicero Jazz Experience\" features Cicero as part of a quartet, with three musicians from his big band: Maik Schott, piano, Hervé Jeanne, bass, and Matthias 'Maze' Meusel, drums and percussion. This seventh album was recorded following two years of concerts by the Jazz Experience, and features jazz renditions of songs by pop musicians such as Nick Drake, Paul Simon and James Taylor.\nDuring 2015, in addition to touring with his Jazz Experience concerts, Cicero also sang Frank Sinatra songs under the strapline \"Cicero sings Sinatra\". His first live album captures two concerts in Hamburg, with Cicero and his thirteen strong Big Band playing Sinatra's songs, with guest appearances by Sasha, Xavier Naidoo, and Yvonne Catterfeld. The DVD includes a duet with Cicero and Paul Anka singing \"My Way\". \n\nCicero appeared in advertisements and videos for the animal rights organization PETA and supported their campaign against the wearing of fur.\n\nIn 2014/2015 Roger Cicero fell ill with chronic fatigue syndrome (also called CFS or Myalgic Encephalomyelitis) which led to an acute case of Myocarditis.\n\nOn 24 March 2016, he died from a stroke (cerebral apoplexy), aged 45. His father Eugen Cicero had also died from the same cause.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48594", "title": "Samuel Johnson", "text": "Samuel Johnson\n\nSamuel Johnson (18 September 1709  – 13 December 1784), often referred to as Dr. Johnson, was an English writer who made lasting contributions to English literature as a poet, essayist, moralist, literary critic, biographer, editor and lexicographer. He was a devout Anglican and a generous philanthropist. Politically, he was a committed Tory. The \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\" describes Johnson as \"arguably the most distinguished man of letters in English history\". He is the subject of James Boswell's \"The Life of Samuel Johnson\", described by Walter Jackson Bate as \"the most famous single work of biographical art in the whole of literature\".\n\nBorn in Lichfield, Staffordshire, Johnson attended Pembroke College, Oxford, for just over a year, but a lack of funds forced him to leave. After working as a teacher, he moved to London, where he began to write for \"The Gentleman's Magazine\". His early works include the biography \"Life of Mr Richard Savage\", the poems \"London\" and \"The Vanity of Human Wishes\", and the play \"Irene\".\n\nAfter nine years of work, Johnson's \"A Dictionary of the English Language\" was published in 1755. It had a far-reaching effect on Modern English and has been acclaimed as \"one of the greatest single achievements of scholarship\". This work brought Johnson popularity and success. Until the completion of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" 150 years later, Johnson's was the pre-eminent British dictionary. His later works included essays, an influential annotated edition of \"The Plays of William Shakespeare\", and the widely read tale \"The History of Rasselas, Prince of Abissinia\". In 1763, he befriended James Boswell, with whom he later travelled to Scotland; Johnson described their travels in \"A Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland\". Towards the end of his life, he produced the massive and influential \"Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets\", a collection of biographies and evaluations of 17th- and 18th-century poets.\n\nJohnson was a tall and robust man. His odd gestures and tics were disconcerting to some on first meeting him. Boswell's \"Life\", along with other biographies, documented Johnson's behaviour and mannerisms in such detail that they have informed the posthumous diagnosis of Tourette syndrome, a condition not defined or diagnosed in the 18th century. After a series of illnesses, he died on the evening of 13 December 1784, and was buried in Westminster Abbey. In the years following his death, Johnson began to be recognised as having had a lasting effect on literary criticism, and he was claimed by some to be the only truly great critic of English literature.\n\nSamuel Johnson was born on 18 September 1709, to Sarah (née Ford) and Michael Johnson, a bookseller. The birth took place in the family home above his father's bookshop in Lichfield, Staffordshire. His mother was 40 when she gave birth to Johnson. This was considered an unusually late pregnancy, so precautions were taken, and a \"man-midwife\" and surgeon of \"great reputation\" named George Hector was brought in to assist. The infant Johnson did not cry, and there were concerns for his health. His aunt exclaimed that \"she would not have picked such a poor creature up in the street\". The family feared that Johnson would not survive, and summoned the vicar of St Mary's to perform a baptism. Two godfathers were chosen, Samuel Swynfen, a physician and graduate of Pembroke College, Oxford, and Richard Wakefield, a lawyer, coroner, and Lichfield town clerk.\n\nJohnson's health improved and he was put to wet-nurse with Joan Marklew. Some time later he contracted scrofula, known at the time as the \"King's Evil\" because it was thought royalty could cure it. Sir John Floyer, former physician to King Charles II, recommended that the young Johnson should receive the \"royal touch\", and he did so from Queen Anne on 30 March 1712. However, the ritual proved ineffective, and an operation was performed that left him with permanent scars across his face and body. With the birth of Johnson's brother, Nathaniel, a few months later, their father was unable to pay the debts he had accrued over the years, and the family was no longer able to maintain its standard of living.\nJohnson displayed signs of great intelligence as a child, and his parents, to his later disgust, would show off his \"newly acquired accomplishments\". His education began at the age of three, and was provided by his mother, who had him memorise and recite passages from the \"Book of Common Prayer\". When Samuel turned four, he was sent to a nearby school, and, at the age of six he was sent to a retired shoemaker to continue his education. A year later Johnson went to Lichfield Grammar School, where he excelled in Latin. During this time, Johnson started to exhibit the tics that would influence how people viewed him in his later years, and which formed the basis for a posthumous diagnosis of Tourette syndrome. He excelled at his studies and was promoted to the upper school at the age of nine. During this time, he befriended Edmund Hector, nephew of his \"man-midwife\" George Hector, and John Taylor, with whom he remained in contact for the rest of his life.\n\nAt the age of 16 Johnson stayed with his cousins, the Fords, at Pedmore, Worcestershire. There he became a close friend of Cornelius Ford, who employed his knowledge of the classics to tutor Johnson while he was not attending school. Ford was a successful, well-connected academic, and notorious alcoholic whose excesses contributed to his death six years later. After spending six months with his cousins, Johnson returned to Lichfield, but Mr Hunter, the headmaster, \"angered by the impertinence of this long absence\", refused to allow Johnson to continue at the school. Unable to return to Lichfield Grammar School, Johnson enrolled at the King Edward VI grammar school at Stourbridge. As the school was located near Pedmore, Johnson was able to spend more time with the Fords, and he began to write poems and verse translations. However, he spent only six months at Stourbridge before returning once again to his parents' home in Lichfield.\n\nDuring this time, Johnson's future remained uncertain because his father was deeply in debt. To earn money, Johnson began to stitch books for his father, and it is likely that Johnson spent much time in his father's bookshop reading and building his literary knowledge. The family remained in poverty until his mother's cousin, Elizabeth Harriotts, died in February 1728 and left enough money to send Johnson to university. On 31 October 1728, a few weeks after he turned 19, Johnson entered Pembroke College, Oxford. The inheritance did not cover all of his expenses at Pembroke, and Andrew Corbet, a friend and fellow student at the College, offered to make up the deficit.\n\nJohnson made friends at Pembroke and read much. In later life he told stories of his idleness. His tutor asked him to produce a Latin translation of Alexander Pope's \"Messiah\" as a Christmas exercise. Johnson completed half of the translation in one afternoon and the rest the following morning. Although the poem brought him praise, it did not bring the material benefit he had hoped for. The poem later appeared in \"Miscellany of Poems\" (1731), edited by John Husbands, a Pembroke tutor, and is the earliest surviving publication of any of Johnson's writings. Johnson spent the rest of his time studying, even during the Christmas holiday. He drafted a \"plan of study\" called \"Adversaria\", which he left unfinished, and used his time to learn French while working on his Greek.\n\nAfter thirteen months, a lack of funds forced Johnson to leave Oxford without a degree, and he returned to Lichfield. Towards the end of Johnson's stay at Oxford, his tutor, Jorden, left Pembroke and was replaced by William Adams. Johnson enjoyed Adams' tutoring, but by December, Johnson was already a quarter behind in his student fees, and was forced to return home. He left behind many books that he had borrowed from his father because he could not afford to transport them, and also because he hoped to return to Oxford.\n\nHe eventually did receive a degree. Just before the publication of his \"Dictionary\" in 1755, the University of Oxford awarded Johnson the degree of Master of Arts. He was awarded an honorary doctorate in 1765 by Trinity College Dublin and in 1775 by the University of Oxford. In 1776 he returned to Pembroke with Boswell and toured the college with his former tutor Adams, who by then was the Master of the college. During that visit he recalled his time at the college and his early career, and expressed his later fondness for Jorden.\n\nLittle is known about Johnson's life between the end of 1729 and 1731. It is likely that he lived with his parents. He experienced bouts of mental anguish and physical pain during years of illness; his tics and gesticulations associated with Tourette syndrome became more noticeable and were often commented upon. By 1731 Johnson's father was deeply in debt and had lost much of his standing in Lichfield. Johnson hoped to get an usher's position, which became available at Stourbridge Grammar School, but since he did not have a degree, his application was passed over on 6 September 1731. At about this time, Johnson's father became ill and developed an \"inflammatory fever\" which led to his death in December 1731. Johnson eventually found employment as undermaster at a school in Market Bosworth, run by Sir Wolstan Dixie, who allowed Johnson to teach without a degree. Although Johnson was treated as a servant, he found pleasure in teaching even though he considered it boring. After an argument with Dixie he left the school, and by June 1732 he had returned home.\n\nJohnson continued to look for a position at a Lichfield school. After being turned down for a job at Ashbourne, he spent time with his friend Edmund Hector, who was living in the home of the publisher Thomas Warren. At the time, Warren was starting his \"Birmingham Journal\", and he enlisted Johnson's help. This connection with Warren grew, and Johnson proposed a translation of Jerónimo Lobo's account of the Abyssinians. Johnson read Abbé Joachim Le Grand's French translations, and thought that a shorter version might be \"useful and profitable\". Instead of writing the work himself, he dictated to Hector, who then took the copy to the printer and made any corrections. Johnson's \"A Voyage to Abyssinia\" was published a year later. He returned to Lichfield in February 1734, and began an annotated edition of Poliziano's Latin poems, along with a history of Latin poetry from Petrarch to Poliziano; a \"Proposal\" was soon printed, but a lack of funds halted the project.\n\nJohnson remained with his close friend Harry Porter during a terminal illness, which ended in Porter's death on 3 September 1734. Porter's wife Elizabeth (née Jervis) (otherwise known as \"Tetty\") was now a widow at the age of 45, with three children. Some months later, Johnson began to court her. The Reverend William Shaw claims that \"the first advances probably proceeded from her, as her attachment to Johnson was in opposition to the advice and desire of all her relations,\" Johnson was inexperienced in such relationships, but the well-to-do widow encouraged him and promised to provide for him with her substantial savings. They married on 9 July 1735, at St Werburgh's Church in Derby. The Porter family did not approve of the match, partly because of the difference in their ages, Johnson was 25 and Elizabeth was 46. Elizabeth's marriage to Johnson so disgusted her son Jervis that he severed all relations with her. However, her daughter Lucy accepted Johnson from the start, and her other son, Joseph, later came to accept the marriage.\n\nIn June 1735, while working as a tutor for the children of Thomas Whitby, a local Staffordshire gentleman, Johnson had applied for the position of headmaster at Solihull School. Although Johnson's friend Gilbert Walmisley gave his support, Johnson was passed over because the school's directors thought he was \"a very haughty, ill-natured gent, and that he has such a way of distorting his face (which though he can't help) the gents think it may affect some lads\". With Walmisley's encouragement, Johnson decided that he could be a successful teacher if he ran his own school. In the autumn of 1735, Johnson opened Edial Hall School as a private academy at Edial, near Lichfield. He had only three pupils: Lawrence Offley, George Garrick, and the 18-year-old David Garrick, who later became one of the most famous actors of his day. The venture was unsuccessful and cost Tetty a substantial portion of her fortune. Instead of trying to keep the failing school going, Johnson began to write his first major work, the historical tragedy \"Irene\". Biographer Robert DeMaria believed that Tourette syndrome likely made public occupations like schoolmaster or tutor almost impossible for Johnson. This may have led Johnson to \"the invisible occupation of authorship\".\n\nJohnson left for London with his former pupil David Garrick on 2 March 1737, the day Johnson's brother died. He was penniless and pessimistic about their travel, but fortunately for them, Garrick had connections in London, and the two were able to stay with his distant relative, Richard Norris. Johnson soon moved to Greenwich near the Golden Hart Tavern to finish \"Irene\". On 12 July 1737 he wrote to Edward Cave with a proposal for a translation of Paolo Sarpi's \"The History of the Council of Trent\" (1619), which Cave did not accept until months later. In October 1737 Johnson brought his wife to London, and he found employment with Cave as a writer for \"The Gentleman's Magazine\". His assignments for the magazine and other publishers during this time were \"almost unparalleled in range and variety,\" and \"so numerous, so varied and scattered\" that \"Johnson himself could not make a complete list\". The name \"Columbia\", a poetic name for America coined by Johnson, first appears in a 1738 weekly publication of the debates of the British Parliament in \"The Gentleman's Magazine\".\n\nIn May 1738 his first major work, the poem \"London\", was published anonymously. Based on Juvenal's , it describes the character Thales leaving for Wales to escape the problems of London, which is portrayed as a place of crime, corruption, and poverty. Johnson could not bring himself to regard the poem as earning him any merit as a poet. Alexander Pope said that the author \"will soon be déterré\" (unearthed, dug up), but this would not happen until 15 years later.\n\nIn August, Johnson's lack of an MA degree from Oxford or Cambridge led to his being denied a position as master of the Appleby Grammar School. In an effort to end such rejections, Pope asked Lord Gower to use his influence to have a degree awarded to Johnson. Gower petitioned Oxford for an honorary degree to be awarded to Johnson, but was told that it was \"too much to be asked\". Gower then asked a friend of Jonathan Swift to plead with Swift to use his influence at the University of Dublin to have a master's degree awarded to Johnson, in the hope that this could then be used to justify an MA from Oxford, but Swift refused to act on Johnson's behalf.\n\nBetween 1737 and 1739, Johnson befriended poet Richard Savage. Feeling guilty about living on Tetty's money, Johnson stopped living with her and spent his time with Savage. They were poor and would stay in taverns or sleep in \"night-cellars\". Some nights they would roam the streets until dawn because they had no money. Savage's friends tried to help him by attempting to persuade him to move to Wales, but Savage ended up in Bristol and again fell into debt. He was committed to debtors' prison and died in 1743. A year later, Johnson wrote \"Life of Mr Richard Savage\" (1744), a \"moving\" work which, in the words of the biographer and critic Walter Jackson Bate, \"remains one of the innovative works in the history of biography\".\n\nIn 1746, a group of publishers approached Johnson with an idea about creating an authoritative dictionary of the English language. A contract with William Strahan and associates, worth 1,500 guineas, was signed on the morning of 18 June 1746. Johnson claimed that he could finish the project in three years. In comparison, the Académie Française had 40 scholars spending 40 years to complete their dictionary, which prompted Johnson to claim, \"This is the proportion. Let me see; forty times forty is sixteen hundred. As three to sixteen hundred, so is the proportion of an Englishman to a Frenchman.\" Although he did not succeed in completing the work in three years, he did manage to finish it in eight. Some criticised the dictionary, including Thomas Babington Macaulay, who described Johnson as \"a wretched etymologist,\" but according to Bate, the \"Dictionary\" \"easily ranks as one of the greatest single achievements of scholarship, and probably the greatest ever performed by one individual who laboured under anything like the disadvantages in a comparable length of time.\"\n\nJohnson's dictionary was not the first, nor was it unique. It was, however, the most commonly used and imitated for the 150 years between its first publication and the completion of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" in 1928. Other dictionaries, such as Nathan Bailey's \"Dictionarium Britannicum\", included more words, and in the 150 years preceding Johnson's dictionary about twenty other general-purpose monolingual \"English\" dictionaries had been produced. However, there was open dissatisfaction with the dictionaries of the period. In 1741, David Hume claimed: \"The Elegance and Propriety of Stile have been very much neglected among us. We have no Dictionary of our Language, and scarce a tolerable Grammar.\" Johnson's \"Dictionary\" offers insights into the 18th century and \"a faithful record of the language people used\". It is more than a reference book; it is a work of literature.\n\nFor a decade, Johnson's constant work on the \"Dictionary\" disrupted his and Tetty's living conditions. He had to employ a number of assistants for the copying and mechanical work, which filled the house with incessant noise and clutter. He was always busy, and kept hundreds of books around him. John Hawkins described the scene: \"The books he used for this purpose were what he had in his own collection, a copious but a miserably ragged one, and all such as he could borrow; which latter, if ever they came back to those that lent them, were so defaced as to be scarce worth owning.\" Johnson was also distracted by Tetty's poor health as she began to show signs of a terminal illness. To accommodate both his wife and his work, he moved to 17 Gough Square near his printer, William Strahan.\n\nIn preparation, Johnson wrote a \"Plan\" for the \"Dictionary\". Philip Stanhope, 4th Earl of Chesterfield, was the patron of the \"Plan\", to Johnson's displeasure. Seven years after first meeting Johnson to go over the work, Chesterfield wrote two anonymous essays in \"The World\" recommending the \"Dictionary\". He complained that the English language lacked structure and argued in support of the dictionary. Johnson did not like the tone of the essays, and he felt that Chesterfield had not fulfilled his obligations as the work's patron. In a letter to Chesterfield, Johnson expressed this view and harshly criticised Chesterfield, saying \"Is not a patron, my lord, one who looks with unconcern on a man struggling for life in the water, and when he has reached ground, encumbers him with help? The notice which you have been pleased to take of my labours, had it been early, had been kind: but it has been delayed till I am indifferent and cannot enjoy it; till I am solitary and cannot impart it; till I am known and do not want it.\" Chesterfield, impressed by the language, kept the letter displayed on a table for anyone to read.\nThe \"Dictionary\" was finally published in April 1755, with the title page acknowledging that the University of Oxford had awarded Johnson a Master of Arts degree in anticipation of the work. The dictionary as published was a large book. Its pages were nearly tall, and the book was wide when opened; it contained 42,773 entries, to which only a few more were added in subsequent editions, and it sold for the extravagant price of £4 10s, perhaps the rough equivalent of £350 today. An important innovation in English lexicography was to illustrate the meanings of his words by literary quotation, of which there were approximately 114,000. The authors most frequently cited include William Shakespeare, John Milton and John Dryden. It was years before \"Johnson's Dictionary\", as it came to be known, turned a profit. Authors' royalties were unknown at the time, and Johnson, once his contract to deliver the book was fulfilled, received no further money from its sale. Years later, many of its quotations would be repeated by various editions of the \"Webster's Dictionary\" and the \"New English Dictionary\".\n\nBesides working on the \"Dictionary\", Johnson also wrote numerous essays, sermons, and poems during these nine years. In 1750, he decided to produce a series of essays under the title \"The Rambler\" that were to be published every Tuesday and Saturday and sell for twopence each. Explaining the title years later, he told his friend, the painter Joshua Reynolds: \"I was at a loss how to name it. I sat down at night upon my bedside, and resolved that I would not go to sleep till I had fixed its title. \"The Rambler\" seemed the best that occurred, and I took it.\" These essays, often on moral and religious topics, tended to be more grave than the title of the series would suggest; his first comments in \"The Rambler\" were to ask \"that in this undertaking thy Holy Spirit may not be withheld from me, but that I may promote thy glory, and the salvation of myself and others.\" The popularity of \"The Rambler\" took off once the issues were collected in a volume; they were reprinted nine times during Johnson's life. Writer and printer Samuel Richardson, enjoying the essays greatly, questioned the publisher as to who wrote the works; only he and a few of Johnson's friends were told of Johnson's authorship. One friend, the novelist Charlotte Lennox, includes a defence of \"The Rambler\" in her novel \"The Female Quixote\" (1752). In particular, the character Mr. Glanville says, \"you may sit in Judgment upon the Productions of a \"Young\", a \"Richardson\", or a \"Johnson\". Rail with premeditated Malice at the \"Rambler\"; and for the want of Faults, turn even its inimitable Beauties into Ridicule.\" (Book VI, Chapter XI) Later, she claims Johnson as \"the greatest Genius in the present Age.\"\n\nHowever, not all of his work was confined to \"The Rambler\". His most highly regarded poem, \"The Vanity of Human Wishes\", was written with such \"extraordinary speed\" that Boswell claimed Johnson \"might have been perpetually a poet\". The poem is an imitation of Juvenal's \"\" and claims that \"the antidote to vain human wishes is non-vain spiritual wishes\". In particular, Johnson emphasises \"the helpless vulnerability of the individual before the social context\" and the \"inevitable self-deception by which human beings are led astray\". The poem was critically celebrated but it failed to become popular, and sold fewer copies than \"London\". In 1749, Garrick made good on his promise that he would produce \"Irene\", but its title was altered to \"Mahomet and Irene\" to make it \"fit for the stage.\" The show eventually ran for nine nights.\n\nTetty Johnson was ill during most of her time in London, and in 1752 she decided to return to the countryside while Johnson was busy working on his \"Dictionary\". She died on 17 March 1752, and, at word of her death, Johnson wrote a letter to his old friend Taylor, which according to Taylor \"expressed grief in the strongest manner he had ever read\". He wrote a sermon in her honour, to be read at her funeral, but Taylor refused to read it, for reasons which are unknown. This only exacerbated Johnson's feelings of loss and despair after the death of his wife. Consequently, John Hawkesworth had to organise the funeral. Johnson felt guilty about the poverty in which he believed he had forced Tetty to live, and blamed himself for neglecting her. He became outwardly discontented, and his diary was filled with prayers and laments over her death which continued until his own. She was his primary motivation, and her death hindered his ability to complete his work.\n\nOn 16 March 1756, Johnson was arrested for an outstanding debt of £5 18s. Unable to contact anyone else, he wrote to the writer and publisher Samuel Richardson. Richardson, who had previously lent Johnson money, sent him six guineas to show his good will, and the two became friends. Soon after, Johnson met and befriended the painter Joshua Reynolds, who so impressed Johnson that he declared him \"almost the only man whom I call a friend\". Reynolds' younger sister Frances observed during their time together \"that men, women and children gathered around him [Johnson]\", laughing at his gestures and gesticulations. In addition to Reynolds, Johnson was close to Bennet Langton and Arthur Murphy. Langton was a scholar and an admirer of Johnson who persuaded his way into a meeting with Johnson which led to a long friendship. Johnson met Murphy during the summer of 1754 after Murphy came to Johnson about the accidental republishing of the \"Rambler\" No. 190, and the two became friends. Around this time, Anna Williams began boarding with Johnson. She was a minor poet who was poor and becoming blind, two conditions that Johnson attempted to change by providing room for her and paying for a failed cataract surgery. Williams, in turn, became Johnson's housekeeper.\n\nTo occupy himself, Johnson began to work on \"The Literary Magazine, or Universal Review\", the first issue of which was printed on 19 March 1756. Philosophical disagreements erupted over the purpose of the publication when the Seven Years' War began and Johnson started to write polemical essays attacking the war. After the war began, the \"Magazine\" included many reviews, at least 34 of which were written by Johnson. When not working on the \"Magazine\", Johnson wrote a series of prefaces for other writers, such as Giuseppe Baretti, William Payne and Charlotte Lennox. Johnson's relationship with Lennox and her works was particularly close during these years, and she in turn relied so heavily upon Johnson that he was \"the most important single fact in Mrs Lennox's literary life\". He later attempted to produce a new edition of her works, but even with his support they were unable to find enough interest to follow through with its publication. To help with domestic duties while Johnson was busy with his various projects, Richard Bathurst, a physician and a member of Johnson's Club, pressured him to take on a freed slave, Francis Barber, as his servant.\nJohnson's work on \"The Plays of William Shakespeare\" took up most of his time. On 8 June 1756, Johnson published his \"Proposals for Printing, by Subscription, the Dramatick Works of William Shakespeare\", which argued that previous editions of Shakespeare were edited incorrectly and needed to be corrected. Johnson's progress on the work slowed as the months passed, and he told music historian Charles Burney in December 1757 that it would take him until the following March to complete it. Before that could happen, he was arrested again, for a debt of £40, in February 1758. The debt was soon repaid by Jacob Tonson, who had contracted Johnson to publish \"Shakespeare\", and this encouraged Johnson to finish his edition to repay the favour. Although it took him another seven years to finish, Johnson completed a few volumes of his \"Shakespeare\" to prove his commitment to the project.\n\nIn 1758, Johnson began to write a weekly series, \"The Idler\", which ran from 15 April 1758 to 5 April 1760, as a way to avoid finishing his \"Shakespeare\". This series was shorter and lacked many features of \"The Rambler\". Unlike his independent publication of \"The Rambler\", \"The Idler\" was published in a weekly news journal \"The Universal Chronicle\", a publication supported by John Payne, John Newbery, Robert Stevens and William Faden.\n\nSince \"The Idler\" did not occupy all Johnson's time, he was able to publish his philosophical novella \"Rasselas\" on 19 April 1759. The \"little story book\", as Johnson described it, describes the life of Prince Rasselas and Nekayah, his sister, who are kept in a place called the Happy Valley in the land of Abyssinia. The Valley is a place free of problems, where any desire is quickly satisfied. The constant pleasure does not, however, lead to satisfaction; and, with the help of a philosopher named Imlac, Rasselas escapes and explores the world to witness how all aspects of society and life in the outside world are filled with suffering. They return to Abyssinia, but do not wish to return to the state of constantly fulfilled pleasures found in the Happy Valley. \"Rasselas\" was written in one week to pay for his mother's funeral and settle her debts; it became so popular that there was a new English edition of the work almost every year. References to it appear in many later works of fiction, including \"Jane Eyre\", \"Cranford\" and \"The House of the Seven Gables\". Its fame was not limited to English-speaking nations: \"Rasselas\" was immediately translated into five languages (French, Dutch, German, Russian and Italian), and later into nine others.\n\nBy 1762, however, Johnson had gained notoriety for his dilatoriness in writing; the contemporary poet Churchill teased Johnson for the delay in producing his long-promised edition of Shakespeare: \"He for subscribers baits his hook / and takes your cash, but where's the book?\" The comments soon motivated Johnson to finish his \"Shakespeare\", and, after receiving the first payment from a government pension on 20 July 1762, he was able to dedicate most of his time towards this goal. Earlier that July, the 24-year-old King George III granted Johnson an annual pension of £300 in appreciation for the \"Dictionary\". While the pension did not make Johnson wealthy, it did allow him a modest yet comfortable independence for the remaining 22 years of his life. The award came largely through the efforts of Sheridan and the Earl of Bute. When Johnson questioned if the pension would force him to promote a political agenda or support various officials, he was told by Bute that the pension \"is not given you for anything you are to do, but for what you have done\".\n\nOn 16 May 1763, Johnson first met 22-year-old James Boswell—who would later become Johnson's first major biographer—in the bookshop of Johnson's friend, Tom Davies. They quickly became friends, although Boswell would return to his home in Scotland or travel abroad for months at a time. Around the spring of 1763, Johnson formed \"The Club\", a social group that included his friends Reynolds, Burke, Garrick, Goldsmith and others (the membership later expanded to include Adam Smith and Edward Gibbon). They decided to meet every Monday at 7:00 pm at the Turk's Head in Gerrard Street, Soho, and these meetings continued until long after the deaths of the original members.\n\nOn 9 January 1765, Murphy introduced Johnson to Henry Thrale, a wealthy brewer and MP, and his wife Hester. They struck up an instant friendship; Johnson was treated as a member of the family, and was once more motivated to continue working on his \"Shakespeare\". Afterwards, Johnson stayed with the Thrales for 17 years until Henry's death in 1781, sometimes staying in rooms at Thrale's Anchor Brewery in Southwark. Hester Thrale's documentation of Johnson's life during this time, in her correspondence and her diary (\"Thraliana\"), became an important source of biographical information on Johnson after his death.\n\nJohnson's edition of \"Shakespeare\" was finally published on 10 October 1765 as \"The Plays of William Shakespeare, in Eight Volumes ... To which are added Notes by Sam. Johnson\" in a printing of one thousand copies. The first edition quickly sold out, and a second was soon printed. The plays themselves were in a version that Johnson felt was closest to the original, based on his analysis of the manuscript editions. Johnson's revolutionary innovation was to create a set of corresponding notes that allowed readers to clarify the meaning behind many of Shakespeare's more complicated passages, and to examine those which had been transcribed incorrectly in previous editions. Included within the notes are occasional attacks upon rival editors of Shakespeare's works. Years later, Edmond Malone, an important Shakespearean scholar and friend of Johnson's, stated that Johnson's \"vigorous and comprehensive understanding threw more light on his authour than all his predecessors had done\".\n\nIn February 1767, Johnson was granted a special audience with King George III. This took place at the library of the Queen's house, and it was organised by Barnard, the King's librarian. The King, upon hearing that Johnson would visit the library, commanded that Barnard introduce him to Johnson. After a short meeting, Johnson was impressed both with the King himself and with their conversation.\n\nOn 6 August 1773, eleven years after first meeting Boswell, Johnson set out to visit his friend in Scotland, and to begin \"a journey to the western islands of Scotland\", as Johnson's 1775 account of their travels would put it. The work was intended to discuss the social problems and struggles that affected the Scottish people, but it also praised many of the unique facets of Scottish society, such as a school in Edinburgh for the deaf and mute. Also, Johnson used the work to enter into the dispute over the authenticity of James Macpherson's Ossian poems, claiming they could not have been translations of ancient Scottish literature on the grounds that \"in those times nothing had been written in the Earse [i.e. Scots Gaelic] language\". There were heated exchanges between the two, and according to one of Johnson's letters, MacPherson threatened physical violence. Boswell's account of their journey, \"The Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides\" (1786), was a preliminary step toward his later biography, \"The Life of Samuel Johnson\". Included were various quotations and descriptions of events, including anecdotes such as Johnson swinging a broadsword while wearing Scottish garb, or dancing a Highland jig.\n\nIn the 1770s, Johnson, who had tended to be an opponent of the government early in life, published a series of pamphlets in favour of various government policies. In 1770 he produced \"The False Alarm\", a political pamphlet attacking John Wilkes. In 1771, his \"Thoughts on the Late Transactions Respecting Falkland's Islands\" cautioned against war with Spain. In 1774 he printed \"The Patriot\", a critique of what he viewed as false patriotism. On the evening of 7 April 1775, he made the famous statement, \"Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel.\" This line was not, as widely believed, about patriotism in general, but the false use of the term \"patriotism\" by John Stuart, 3rd Earl of Bute (the patriot-minister) and his supporters, who played upon his non-English descent. Johnson opposed \"self-professed Patriots\" in general, but valued what he considered \"true\" patriotism.\n\nThe last of these pamphlets, \"Taxation No Tyranny\" (1775), was a defence of the Coercive Acts and a response to the Declaration of Rights of the First Continental Congress of America, which protested against taxation without representation. Johnson argued that in emigrating to America, colonists had \"voluntarily resigned the power of voting\", but they still had \"virtual representation\" in Parliament. In a parody of the Declaration of Rights, Johnson suggested that the Americans had no more right to govern themselves than the Cornish people, and asked \"How is it that we hear the loudest yelps for liberty among the drivers of negroes?\" If the Americans wanted to participate in Parliament, said Johnson, they could move to England and purchase an estate. Johnson denounced English supporters of American separatists as \"traitors to this country\", and hoped that the matter would be settled without bloodshed, but he felt confident that it would end with \"English superiority and American obedience\". Years before, Johnson had stated that the English and the French were just \"two robbers\" who were stealing land from the natives, and that neither deserved to live there. After the signing of the 1783 Peace of Paris treaty, marking the colonists' defeat of the British, Johnson was \"deeply disturbed\" with the \"state of this kingdom\".\n\nOn 3 May 1777, while Johnson was trying to save Reverend William Dodd from execution, he wrote to Boswell that he was busy preparing a \"little Lives\" and \"little Prefaces, to a little edition of the English Poets\". Tom Davies, William Strahan and Thomas Cadell had asked Johnson to create this final major work, the \"Lives of the English Poets\", for which he asked 200 guineas, an amount significantly less than the price he could have demanded. The \"Lives\", which were critical as well as biographical studies, appeared as prefaces to selections of each poet's work, and they were longer and more detailed than originally expected. The work was finished in March 1781 and the whole collection was published in six volumes. As Johnson justified in the advertisement for the work, \"my purpose was only to have allotted to every Poet an Advertisement, like those which we find in the French Miscellanies, containing a few dates and a general character.\"\n\nJohnson was unable to enjoy this success because Henry Thrale, the dear friend with whom he lived, died on 4 April 1781. Life changed quickly for Johnson when Hester Thrale became romantically involved with the Italian singing teacher Gabriel Mario Piozzi, which forced Johnson to change his previous lifestyle. After returning home and then travelling for a short period, Johnson received word that his friend and tenant Robert Levet, had died on 17 January 1782. Johnson was shocked by the death of Levet, who had resided at Johnson's London home since 1762. Shortly afterwards Johnson caught a cold that developed into bronchitis and lasted for several months. His health was further complicated by \"feeling forlorn and lonely\" over Levet's death, and by the deaths of his friend Thomas Lawrence and his housekeeper Williams.\n\nAlthough he had recovered his health by August, he experienced emotional trauma when he was given word that Hester Thrale would sell the residence that Johnson shared with the family. What hurt Johnson most was the possibility that he would be left without her constant company. Months later, on 6 October 1782, Johnson attended church for the final time in his life, to say goodbye to his former residence and life. The walk to the church strained him, but he managed the journey unaccompanied. While there, he wrote a prayer for the Thrale family:\n\nHester Thrale did not completely abandon Johnson, and asked him to accompany the family on a trip to Brighton. He agreed, and was with them from 7 October to 20 November 1782. On his return, his health began to fail, and he was left alone after Boswell's visit on 29 May 1783.\n\nOn 17 June 1783, Johnson's poor circulation resulted in a stroke and he wrote to his neighbour, Edmund Allen, that he had lost the ability to speak. Two doctors were brought in to aid Johnson; he regained his ability to speak two days later. Johnson feared that he was dying, and wrote:\nBy this time he was sick and gout-ridden. He had surgery for gout, and his remaining friends, including novelist Fanny Burney (the daughter of Charles Burney), came to keep him company. He was confined to his room from 14 December 1783 to 21 April 1784.\n\nHis health began to improve by May 1784, and he travelled to Oxford with Boswell on 5 May 1784. By July, many of Johnson's friends were either dead or gone; Boswell had left for Scotland and Hester Thrale had become engaged to Piozzi. With no one to visit, Johnson expressed a desire to die in London and arrived there on 16 November 1784. On 25 November 1784, he allowed Burney to visit him and expressed an interest to her that he should leave London; he soon left for Islington, to George Strahan's home. His final moments were filled with mental anguish and delusions; when his physician, Thomas Warren, visited and asked him if he were feeling better, Johnson burst out with: \"No, Sir; you cannot conceive with what acceleration I advance towards death.\"\n\nMany visitors came to see Johnson as he lay sick in bed, but he preferred only Langton's company. Burney waited for word of Johnson's condition, along with Windham, Strahan, Hoole, Cruikshank, Des Moulins and Barber. On 13 December 1784, Johnson met with two others: a young woman, Miss Morris, whom Johnson blessed, and Francesco Sastres, an Italian teacher, who was given some of Johnson's final words: \"Iam Moriturus\" (\"I who am about to die\"). Shortly afterwards he fell into a coma, and died at 7:00 p.m.\n\nLangton waited until 11:00 p.m. to tell the others, which led to John Hawkins' becoming pale and overcome with \"an agony of mind\", along with Seward and Hoole describing Johnson's death as \"the most awful sight\". Boswell remarked, \"My feeling was just one large expanse of Stupor ... I could not believe it. My imagination was not convinced.\" William Gerard Hamilton joined in and stated, \"He has made a chasm, which not only nothing can fill up, but which \"nothing has a tendency to fill up\". -Johnson is dead.- Let us go to the next best: There is nobody; -\"no man can be said to put you in mind of Johnson\".\"\n\nHe was buried on 20 December 1784 at Westminster Abbey with an inscription that reads:\n\nJohnson's works, especially his \"Lives of the Poets\" series, describe various features of excellent writing. He believed that the best poetry relied on contemporary language, and he disliked the use of decorative or purposefully archaic language. He was suspicious of the poetic language used by Milton, whose blank verse he believed would inspire many bad imitations. Also, Johnson opposed the poetic language of his contemporary Thomas Gray. His greatest complaint was that obscure allusions found in works like Milton's \"Lycidas\" were overused; he preferred poetry that could be easily read and understood. In addition to his views on language, Johnson believed that a good poem incorporated new and unique imagery.\n\nIn his smaller poetic works, Johnson relied on short lines and filled his work with a feeling of empathy, which possibly influenced Housman's poetic style. In \"London\", his first imitation of Juvenal, Johnson uses the poetic form to express his political opinion and, as befits a young writer, approaches the topic in a playful and almost joyous manner. However, his second imitation, \"The Vanity of Human Wishes\", is completely different; the language remains simple, but the poem is more complicated and difficult to read because Johnson is trying to describe complex Christian ethics. These Christian values are not unique to the poem, but contain views expressed in most of Johnson's works. In particular, Johnson emphasises God's infinite love and shows that happiness can be attained through virtuous action.\nWhen it came to biography, Johnson disagreed with Plutarch's use of biography to praise and to teach morality. Instead, Johnson believed in portraying the biographical subjects accurately and including any negative aspects of their lives. Because his insistence on accuracy in biography was little short of revolutionary, Johnson had to struggle against a society that was unwilling to accept biographical details that could be viewed as tarnishing a reputation; this became the subject of \"Rambler\" 60. Furthermore, Johnson believed that biography should not be limited to the most famous and that the lives of lesser individuals, too, were significant; thus in his \"Lives of the Poets\" he chose both great and lesser poets. In all his biographies he insisted on including what others would have considered trivial details to fully describe the lives of his subjects. Johnson considered the genre of autobiography and diaries, including his own, as one having the most significance; in \"Idler\" 84 he explains how a writer of an autobiography would be the least likely to distort his own life.\n\nJohnson's thoughts on biography and on poetry coalesced in his understanding of what would make a good critic. His works were dominated with his intent to use them for literary criticism. This was especially true of his \"Dictionary\" of which he wrote: \"I lately published a Dictionary like those compiled by the academies of Italy and France, \"for the use of such as aspire to exactness of criticism, or elegance of style\"\". Although a smaller edition of his \"Dictionary\" became the standard household dictionary, Johnson's original \"Dictionary\" was an academic tool that examined how words were used, especially in literary works. To achieve this purpose, Johnson included quotations from Bacon, Hooker, Milton, Shakespeare, Spenser, and many others from what he considered to be the most important literary fields: natural science, philosophy, poetry, and theology. These quotations and usages were all compared and carefully studied in the \"Dictionary\" so that a reader could understand what words in literary works meant in context.\nJohnson did not attempt to create schools of theories to analyse the aesthetics of literature. Instead, he used his criticism for the practical purpose of helping others to better read and understand literature. When it came to Shakespeare's plays, Johnson emphasised the role of the reader in understanding language: \"If Shakespeare has difficulties above other writers, it is to be imputed to the nature of his work, which required the use of common colloquial language, and consequently admitted many phrases allusive, elliptical, and proverbial, such as we speak and hear every hour without observing them\".\n\nHis works on Shakespeare were devoted not merely to Shakespeare, but to understanding literature as a whole; in his \"Preface\" to Shakespeare, Johnson rejects the previous dogma of the classical unities and argues that drama should be faithful to life. However, Johnson did not only defend Shakespeare; he discussed Shakespeare's faults, including his lack of morality, his vulgarity, his carelessness in crafting plots, and his occasional inattentiveness when choosing words or word order. As well as direct literary criticism, Johnson emphasised the need to establish a text that accurately reflects what an author wrote. Shakespeare's plays, in particular, had multiple editions, each of which contained errors caused by the printing process. This problem was compounded by careless editors who deemed difficult words incorrect, and changed them in later editions. Johnson believed that an editor should not alter the text in such a way.\n\nJohnson's tall and robust figure combined with his odd gestures were confusing to some; when William Hogarth first saw Johnson standing near a window in Samuel Richardson's house, \"shaking his head and rolling himself about in a strange ridiculous manner\", Hogarth thought Johnson an \"ideot, whom his relations had put under the care of Mr. Richardson\". Hogarth was quite surprised when \"this figure stalked forwards to where he and Mr. Richardson were sitting and all at once took up the argument ... [with] such a power of eloquence, that Hogarth looked at him with astonishment, and actually imagined that this ideot had been at the moment inspired\". Beyond appearance, Adam Smith claimed that \"Johnson knew more books than any man alive\", while Edmund Burke thought that if Johnson were to join Parliament, he \"certainly would have been the greatest speaker that ever was there\". Johnson relied on a unique form of rhetoric, and he is well known for his \"refutation\" of Bishop Berkeley's immaterialism, his claim that matter did not actually exist but only seemed to exist: during a conversation with Boswell, Johnson powerfully stomped a nearby stone and proclaimed of Berkeley's theory, \"I refute it \"thus\"!\"\n\nJohnson was a devout, conservative Anglican and a compassionate man who supported a number of poor friends under his own roof, even when unable to fully provide for himself. Johnson's Christian morality permeated his works, and he would write on moral topics with such authority and in such a trusting manner that, Walter Jackson Bate claims, \"no other moralist in history excels or even begins to rival him\". However, Johnson's moral writings do not contain, as Donald Greene points out, \"a predetermined and authorized pattern of 'good behavior, even though Johnson does emphasise certain kinds of conduct. He did not let his own faith prejudice him against others, and had respect for those of other denominations who demonstrated a commitment to Christ's teachings. Although Johnson respected John Milton's poetry, he could not tolerate Milton's Puritan and Republican beliefs, feeling that they were contrary to England and Christianity. He was an opponent of slavery on moral grounds, and once proposed a toast to the \"next rebellion of the negroes in the West Indies\". Beside his beliefs concerning humanity, Johnson is also known for his love of cats, especially his own two cats, Hodge and Lily. Boswell wrote, \"I never shall forget the indulgence with which he treated Hodge, his cat.\n\nJohnson was also known as a staunch Tory; he admitted to sympathies for the Jacobite cause during his younger years but, by the reign of George III, he came to accept the Hanoverian Succession. It was Boswell who gave people the impression that Johnson was an \"arch-conservative\", and it was Boswell, more than anyone else, who determined how Johnson would be seen by people years later. However, Boswell was not around for two of Johnson's most politically active periods: during Walpole's control over British Parliament and during the Seven Years' War. Although Boswell was present with Johnson during the 1770s and describes four major pamphlets written by Johnson, he neglects to discuss them because he is more interested in their travels to Scotland. This is compounded by the fact that Boswell held an opinion contradictory to two of these pamphlets, \"The False Alarm\" and \"Taxation No Tyranny\", and so attacks Johnson's views in his biography.\n\nIn his \"Life of Samuel Johnson\" Boswell referred to Johnson as 'Dr. Johnson' so often that he would always be known as such, even though he hated being called such. Boswell's emphasis on Johnson's later years shows him too often as merely an old man discoursing in a tavern to a circle of admirers. Although Boswell, a Scotsman, was a close companion and friend to Johnson during many important times of his life, like many of his fellow Englishmen Johnson had a reputation for despising Scotland and its people. Even during their journey together through Scotland, Johnson \"exhibited prejudice and a narrow nationalism\". Hester Thrale, in summarising Johnson's nationalistic views and his anti-Scottish prejudice, said: \"We all know how well he loved to abuse the Scotch, & indeed to be abused by them in return.\"\n\nJohnson had several health problems, including childhood tuberculous scrofula resulting in deep facial scarring, deafness in one ear and blindness in one eye, gout, testicular cancer, and a stroke in his final year that left him unable to speak; his autopsy indicated that he had pulmonary fibrosis along with cardiac failure probably due to hypertension, a condition then unknown. Johnson displayed signs consistent with several diagnoses, including depression and Tourette syndrome.\n\nThere are many accounts of Johnson suffering from bouts of depression and what Johnson thought might be madness. As Walter Jackson Bate puts it, \"one of the ironies of literary history is that its most compelling and authoritative symbol of common sense—of the strong, imaginative grasp of concrete reality—should have begun his adult life, at the age of twenty, in a state of such intense anxiety and bewildered despair that, at least from his own point of view, it seemed the onset of actual insanity\". To overcome these feelings, Johnson tried to constantly involve himself with various activities, but this did not seem to help. Taylor said that Johnson \"at one time strongly entertained thoughts of Suicide\". Boswell claimed that Johnson \"felt himself overwhelmed with an horrible melancholia, with perpetual irritation, fretfulness, and impatience; and with a dejection, gloom, and despair, which made existence misery\".\nEarly on, when Johnson was unable to pay off his debts, he began to work with professional writers and identified his own situation with theirs. During this time, Johnson witnessed Christopher Smart's decline into \"penury and the madhouse\", and feared that he might share the same fate. Hester Thrale Piozzi claimed, in a discussion on Smart's mental state, that Johnson was her \"friend who feared an apple should intoxicate him\". To her, what separated Johnson from others who were placed in asylums for madness—like Christopher Smart—was his ability to keep his concerns and emotions to himself.\n\nTwo hundred years after Johnson's death, the posthumous diagnosis of Tourette syndrome became widely accepted. The condition was unknown during Johnson's lifetime, but Boswell describes Johnson displaying signs of Tourette syndrome, including tics and other involuntary movements. According to Boswell \"he commonly held his head to one side ... moving his body backwards and forwards, and rubbing his left knee in the same direction, with the palm of his hand ... [H]e made various sounds\" like \"a half whistle\" or \"as if clucking like a hen\", and \"... all this accompanied sometimes with a thoughtful look, but more frequently with a smile. Generally when he had concluded a period, in the course of a dispute, by which time he was a good deal exhausted by violence and vociferation, he used to blow out his breath like a Whale.\" There are many similar accounts; in particular, Johnson was said to \"perform his gesticulations\" at the threshold of a house or in doorways. When asked by a little girl why he made such noises and acted in that way, Johnson responded: \"From bad habit.\" The diagnosis of the syndrome was first made in a 1967 report, and Tourette syndrome researcher Arthur K. Shapiro described Johnson as \"the most notable example of a successful adaptation to life despite the liability of Tourette syndrome\". Details provided by the writings of Boswell, Hester Thrale, and others reinforce the diagnosis, with one paper concluding:\n\nJohnson was, in the words of Steven Lynn, \"more than a well-known writer and scholar\"; he was a celebrity for the activities and the state of his health in his later years were constantly reported in various journals and newspapers, and when there was nothing to report, something was invented. According to Bate, \"Johnson loved biography,\" and he \"changed the whole course of biography for the modern world. One by-product was the most famous single work of biographical art in the whole of literature, Boswell's \"Life of Johnson\", and there were many other memoirs and biographies of a similar kind written on Johnson after his death.\" These accounts of his life include Thomas Tyers's \"A Biographical Sketch of Dr Samuel Johnson\" (1784); Boswell's \"The Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides\" (1785); Hester Thrale's \"Anecdotes of the Late Samuel Johnson\", which drew on entries from her diary and other notes; John Hawkins's \"Life of Samuel Johnson\", the first full-length biography of Johnson; and, in 1792, Arthur Murphy's \"An Essay on the Life and Genius of Samuel Johnson\", which replaced Hawkins's biography as the introduction to a collection of Johnson's \"Works\". Another important source was Fanny Burney, who described Johnson as \"the acknowledged Head of Literature in this kingdom\" and kept a diary containing details missing from other biographies. Above all, Boswell's portrayal of Johnson is the work best known to general readers. Although critics like Donald Greene argue about its status as a true biography, the work became successful as Boswell and his friends promoted it at the expense of the many other works on Johnson's life.\n\nIn criticism, Johnson had a lasting influence, although not everyone viewed him favourably. Some, like Macaulay, regarded Johnson as an idiot savant who produced some respectable works, and others, like the Romantic poets, were completely opposed to Johnson's views on poetry and literature, especially with regard to Milton. However, some of their contemporaries disagreed: Stendhal's \"Racine et Shakespeare\" is based in part on Johnson's views of Shakespeare, and Johnson influenced Jane Austen's writing style and philosophy. Later, Johnson's works came into favour, and Matthew Arnold, in his \"Six Chief Lives from Johnson's \"Lives of the Poets\"\", considered the \"Lives\" of Milton, Dryden, Pope, Addison, Swift, and Gray as \"points which stand as so many natural centres, and by returning to which we can always find our way again\".\n\nMore than a century after his death, literary critics such as G. Birkbeck Hill and T. S. Eliot came to regard Johnson as a serious critic. They began to study Johnson's works with an increasing focus on the critical analysis found in his edition of Shakespeare and \"Lives of the Poets\". Yvor Winters claimed that \"A great critic is the rarest of all literary geniuses; perhaps the only critic in English who deserves that epithet is Samuel Johnson\". F. R. Leavis agreed and, on Johnson's criticism, said, \"When we read him we know, beyond question, that we have here a powerful and distinguished mind operating at first hand upon literature. This, we can say with emphatic conviction, really \"is\" criticism\". Edmund Wilson claimed that \"The \"Lives of the Poets\" and the prefaces and commentary on Shakespeare are among the most brilliant and the most acute documents in the whole range of English criticism\". The critic Harold Bloom placed Johnson's work firmly within the Western canon, describing him as \"unmatched by any critic in any nation before or after him...Bate in the finest insight on Johnson I know, emphasised that no other writer is so obsessed by the realisation that the mind is an \"activity\", one that will turn to destructiveness of the self or of others unless it is directed to labour.\" It is no wonder that his philosophical insistence that the language within literature must be examined became a prevailing mode of literary theory during the mid-20th century.\n\nThere are many societies formed around and dedicated to the study and enjoyment of Samuel Johnson's life and works. On the bicentennial of Johnson's death in 1984, Oxford University held a week-long conference featuring 50 papers, and the Arts Council of Great Britain held an exhibit of \"Johnsonian portraits and other memorabilia\". The London \"Times\" and \"Punch\" produced parodies of Johnson's style for the occasion. In 1999, the BBC Four television channel started the Samuel Johnson Prize, an award for non-fiction.\n\nHalf of Johnson's surviving correspondence, together with some of his manuscripts, editions of his books, paintings and other items associated with him are in the Donald and Mary Hyde Collection of Dr. Samuel Johnson, housed at Houghton Library at Harvard University since 2003. Materials in the collection may be accessed through the Houghton Reading Room. The collection includes drafts of his \"Plan for a Dictionary\", documents associated with Hester Thrale Piozzi and James Boswell (including corrected proofs of his \"Life of Johnson\") and a teapot owned by Johnson.\n\nA Royal Society of Arts blue plaque, unveiled in 1876, commemorates his Gough Square house.\n\nOn 18 September 2017 Google commemorated Johnson's 308th birthday with a Google Doodle.\n\nSpecific\nGeneral\n\n"}
{"id": "195545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195545", "title": "Sinocentrism", "text": "Sinocentrism\n\nSinocentrism refers to the ideology that China is the cultural center of the world.\n\nDepending on the historical context, sinocentrism can refer to either the ethnocentrism of the Han society and culture, or the modern concept of zhonghua minzu. The concept was popular among the Chinese elites up to the final demisme of Qing dynasty. The concept came to an end in 19th century and suffered several more blows in 20th century, and as a result is not as widely popular among Chinese people in the present day.\n\nIn pre-modern times, it often took the form of viewing China as the most advanced civilization in the world, and external ethnic groups or foreign nations as being uncivilized to various degrees, a distinction known in Chinese as the Hua–Yi distinction.\n\nThe Sinocentric system was a hierarchical system of international relations that prevailed in East Asia before the adoption of the Westphalian system in modern times. Surrounding countries such as Japan (which cut off its vassal relationship with China during the Asuka period, because it regarded itself as an equal and individual culture), Korea, the Ryukyu Kingdom, and Vietnam were regarded as vassals of China and relations between the Chinese Empire and these peoples were interpreted as tributary relationships under which these countries offered tribute (貢品) to the Emperor of China. Areas outside the Sinocentric influence were called \"Huawaizhidi\" (化外之地), meaning \"uncivilized lands\".\n\nAt the center of the system stood China, ruled by the dynasty that had gained the Mandate of Heaven (天命 Tiānmìng). This \"Celestial Dynasty\" (天朝 Tiāncháo), distinguished by its Confucian codes of morality and propriety, regarded itself as the most prominent civilization in the world; the emperor of China (\"Huangdi\") was regarded as the only legitimate Emperor of the entire world (lands \"all under heaven\" or 天下 Tiānxià).\n\nUnder this scheme of international relations, only China had an emperor or \"Huangdi\" (皇帝), who was the Son of Heaven (天子 Tiānzǐ); other countries only had Kings or \"Wang\" (王). The Japanese use of the term Heavenly Emperor (天皇) for the ruler of Japan was a subversion of this principle. Throughout history, the Koreans sometimes refer to their hierarchy as King, conforming with traditional Korean belief of Posterity of Heaven.\n\nIdentification of the heartland and the legitimacy of dynastic succession were both essential aspects of the system. Originally the center was synonymous with the Zhongyuan, an area that was expanded through invasion and conquest over many centuries. The dynastic succession was at times subject to radical changes in interpretation, such as the period of the Southern Song when the ruling dynasty lost the traditional heartland to the northern barbarians. Outside the center were several concentric circles. Local ethnic minorities were not regarded as 'foreign countries'. However, they were governed by their own leaders called \"Local Commanders\" (土司 tusi), subject to recognition by the Emperor, and were exempt from the Chinese bureaucratic system.\n\nOutside this circle were the tributary states which offered tribute (貢品) to the emperor of China and over which China exercised suzerainty. Under the Ming Dynasty, when the tribute system entered its peak, these states were classified into a number of groups. The southeastern barbarians (category one) included some of the major states of East Asia and Southeast Asia, such as Korea, Japan, the Ryukyu Kingdom, Annam/Đại Việt, Thailand, Champa, and Java. A second group of southeastern barbarians covered countries like Sulu, Malacca, and Sri Lanka. Many of these are independent states in modern times.\n\nIn addition, there were northern barbarians, northeastern barbarians, and two large categories of western barbarians (from Shanxi, west of Lanzhou, and modern-day Xinjiang), none of which have survived into modern times as separate or independent states.\n\nThe situation was complicated by the fact that some tributary states had their own tributaries. Laos was a tributary of Vietnam and the Ryūkyū Kingdom paid tribute to both China and Japan. Tsushima Island was also a tributary of Goryeo and Joseon dynasties of Korea.\n\nBeyond the circle of tributary states were countries in a trading relationship with China. The Portuguese, for instance, were allowed to trade with China from leased territory in Macau but did not officially enter the tributary system. During the Qing dynasty's rule of Taiwan, some Qing officials have used the term \"Huawaizhidi\" (化外之地) to refer to Taiwan (Formosa), specifically to areas in Taiwan that have yet to be fully cultivated, developed and under the control of the Qing government.\n\nWhile Sinocentrism tends to be identified as a politically inspired system of international relations, in fact it possessed an important economic aspect. The Sinocentric tribute and trade system provided Northeast and Southeast Asia with a political and economic framework for international trade. Countries wishing to trade with China were required to submit to a suzerain-vassal relationship with the Chinese sovereign. After investiture (冊封) of the ruler in question, the missions were allowed to come to China to pay tribute (貢品) to the Chinese emperor. In exchange, tributary missions were presented with return bestowals (回賜). Special licences were issued to merchants accompanying these missions to carry out trade. Trade was also permitted at land frontiers and specified ports. This sinocentric trade zone was based on the use of silver as a currency with prices set by reference to Chinese prices.\n\nThe Sinocentric model was not seriously challenged until contact with the European powers in the 18th and 19th century, in particular the First Opium War. This was partly due to the fact that sustained contact between the Chinese Empire and other empires of the pre-modern period was limited. By the mid 19th century, imperial China was well past its peak and was on the verge of collapse.\n\nIn the late 19th century, the Sinocentric tributary state system in East Asia was superseded by the Westphalian multi-state system.\n\nWithin Asia, the cultural and economic centrality of China was recognized and most countries submitted to the Sinocentric model, if only to enjoy the benefits of a trading relationship. However, clear differences of nuance can be discerned in the responses of different countries.\n\nThe Korean peninsula was greatly influenced by its geographic and historic proximity to China.\n\nUntil the era of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, Southern Korean states had been protected from Chinese invasions by militarily powerful Northern Korean states such as Goguryeo which ruled the northern region of Korean peninsula and Manchu. Goguryeo considered herself as an equally supreme state as China and adopted her own centric system to adjacent countries. Refusing to pay any tributes and continuing to conquer eastern territories of China altogether incurred a series of massive Chinese invasions of Goguryeo from 598 to 614, which ended disastrously and they mainly contributed to the fall of Chinese Sui dynasty in 618. Such numerous defeats of the Chinese raised the sense of ethnic superiority in Goguryeo and further expansions into the Chinese territories continued.\n\nAfter Goguryeo finally collapsed by allied forces of Silla, one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, and Tang dynasty in 668, Silla, now being the sole ruler of Korean peninsula, more readily started the tribute system between Silla and Tang. However, such ties between two countries were greatly weakened after Silla's submission to Goryeo who claimed to succeed Goguryeo.\n\nGoryeo's relationship with Chinese Song dynasty remained equal but close and very profitable bilateral trade propspered without the tribute system as Goryeo's ginseng and porcelain were highly priced in China whereas Chinese silks were somewhat popular in Goryeo. This peaceful relationship ended when Mongol invasions of Korea, as a part of a general campaign to conquer China and rest of Asia, occurred in 1231. After 30 years of fierce resistance, both Goryeo and Mongols finally sued for peace and became a dependency of the Mongol Yuan dynasty under Mongol influences of the Goryeo royal courts. Soon after the weakening of Yuan dynasty, Goryeo retook their lost territories from the Mongol Empire by military campaigns and regained her sovereign rights.\n\nDuring the Joseon dynasty (1392–1910) period, however, they encouraged the entrenchment of Korean Confucian ideals and doctrines in Korean society and voluntarily entered herself into the Sinocentric system. After the Ming dynasty, which regarded itself as huá (華), cultured civilization was considered to have collapsed under the invasion of the Qing from Manchuria, who were considered barbarian (夷) in 1644. The Ming was thought of as the last true Sino culture (中華).\n\nThe Sinocentrism in Joseon came to an end in the 19th century when the Korean Empire was proclaimed by Emperor Gojong. Ever since, Sinocentrism, known as Junghwa-sasang (중화사상; 中華思想) in Korea, has been regarded as an example of the imprudent and disdainful delusions of the Joseon dynasty.\n\nThis started with the simultaneous influx of European culture and the decline of the Qing dynasty in the early 19th century. It had been claimed by many historians and philosophers in Korea that the acceptance of Confucianism as a state ideology was the main contribution to military weakness and resultant external aggressions in the Joseon dynasty.\n\nVietnam (Annam) had an intimate but not always peaceful relationship with China. Vietnam was part of various Chinese dynasties and kingdoms for approximately 900 years before gaining independence in the 10th century. In subsequent centuries the Vietnamese drove out Chinese invaders on a number of occasions, to the extent that conflict with China may be seen as one of the main themes of Vietnamese history.\n\nHowever, Vietnam was also heavily Sinicized, using Classical Chinese as its official literary language and adopting most aspects of Chinese culture, including the administrative system, architecture, philosophy, religion, literature of China, and even a general cultural outlook. Vietnam persistently identified itself in relation to China, regarding itself as the kingdom of the south as against China in the north, as seen in this line from a poem (in Classical Chinese) by General Lý Thường Kiệt (李常傑) (1019–1105): \"Nam Quốc sơn hà Nam Đế cư\". (南國山河南帝居), which means \"Over mountains and rivers of the South reigns the Emperor of the South\".\n\nIn adopting Chinese customs, the Vietnamese court also began to adopt Sinocentric world view during the expanding Le and Nguyen dynasties. \"Trung Quốc\" 中國 was used as a name for Vietnam by Emperor Gia Long in 1805. It was said \"Hán di hữu hạn\" 漢夷有限 (\"the Vietnamese and the barbarians must have clear borders\") by the Gia Long Emperor (Nguyễn Phúc Ánh) when differentiating between Khmer and Vietnamese. Minh Mang implemented an acculturation integration policy directed at minority non-Vietnamese peoples. Thanh nhân 清人 was used to refer to ethnic Chinese by the Vietnamese while Vietnamese called themselves as Hán nhân 漢人 in Vietnam during the 1800s under Nguyễn rule. Cambodia was regularly called \"Cao Man Quốc\" (高蠻國), the country of \"upper barbarians\". In 1815, Gia Long claimed 13 countries as Vietnamese vassals, including Luang Prabang, Vientiane, Burma, Tran Ninh in eastern Laos, and two countries called \"Thủy Xá Quốc\" and \"Hỏa Xá Quốc\", which were actually Malayo-Polynesian Jarai tribes living between Vietnam and Cambodia. Mirroring the Chinese model, the Vietnamese court attempted to regulate the presentation of tribute to the Vietnamese court, participation in New Year and emperor's birthday ceremonies, as well as the travel routes and size of tributary missions.\n\nVietnamese Nguyen Emperor Minh Mạng sinicized ethnic minorities such as Cambodians, claimed the legacy of Confucianism and China's Han dynasty for Vietnam, and used the term Han people 漢人 (Hán nhân) to refer to the Vietnamese. Minh Mang declared that \"We must hope that their barbarian habits will be subconsciously dissipated, and that they will daily become more infected by Han [Sino-Vietnamese] customs.\" These policies were directed at the Khmer and hill tribes. The Nguyen lord Nguyen Phuc Chu had referred to Vietnamese as \"Han people\" in 1712 when differentiating between Vietnamese and Chams. The Nguyen Lords established đồn điền after 1790. It was said \"Hán di hữu hạn\" 漢夷有限 (\"the Vietnamese and the barbarians must have clear borders\") by the Gia Long Emperor (Nguyễn Phúc Ánh) when differentiating between Khmer and Vietnamese. Minh Mang implemented an acculturation integration policy directed at minority non-Vietnamese peoples. Thanh nhân 清人 or Đường nhân 唐人 were used to refer to ethnic Chinese by the Vietnamese while Vietnamese called themselves as Hán dân 漢民 and Hán nhân 漢人 in Vietnam during the 1800s under Nguyễn rule. Chinese style clothing was forced on Vietnamese people by the Nguyễn. Trousers have been adopted by White H'mong. The trousers replaced the traditional skirts of the females of the White Hmong. The tunics and trouser clothing of the Han Chinese on the Ming tradition was worn by the Vietnamese. The Ao Dai was created when tucks which were close fitting and compact were added in the 1920s to this Chinese style. Trousers and tunics on the Chinese pattern in 1774 were ordered by the Nguyễn Phúc Khoát to replace the sarong type Vietnamese clothing. The Chinese clothing in the form of trousers and tunic were mandated by the Vietnamese Nguyen government. It was up to the 1920s in Vietnam's north area in isolated hamlets wear skirts were worn. The Chinese Ming dynasty, Tang dynasty, and Han dynasty clothing was ordered to be adopted by Vietnamese military and bureaucrats by the Nguyen Lord Nguyễn Phúc Khoát (Nguyen The Tong).\n\nChinese influence waned as French influence rose in the 19th century, and Vietnam eventually abolished the Imperial examinations and stopped using Chinese characters and the related Chữ Nôm script in the 20th century.\n\nIn Japan, an ambivalent tone was set early in its relationship with China. Shōtoku Taishi (574–622), Prince Regent of Japan, is famous for having sent a letter to the Emperor of China starting with the words: \"The Emperor of the land where the sun rises sends a letter to the Emperor of the land where the sun sets to ask if you are healthy\" (日出處天子致書日沒處天子無恙云云). This is commonly believed as the origin of the name Nihon (source of the sun), although the actual characters for Nihon (日本) were not used.\n\nNot long after this, however, Japan remodeled its entire state and administrative apparatus on the Chinese system under the Taika Reform (645), the beginning of a period of Chinese influence on many aspects of Japanese culture until Imperial Japanese embassies to China were abolished in 894.\n\nIn 1401, during the Muromachi period (室町時代), the \"shōgun\" Yoshimitsu (足利義満) restarted the lapsed tribute system (1401), describing himself in a letter to the Chinese Emperor as \"Your subject, the King of Japan\" while also a subject of the Japanese Emperor. The benefit of the tribute system was a profitable trade. The trade was called \"Kangō\" trade (means tally trade) and Japanese products were traded for Chinese goods. This relationship ended with the last envoy of Japanese monk Sakugen Shūryō in 1551, which was Ashikaga Yoshiteru's era, including a 20 years suspension by Ashikaga Yoshimochi. These embassies were sent to China on 19 occasions.\n\nIn the years 1592–1593 Toyotomi Hideyoshi, having unified Japan, tried to conquer Korea as a prelude to conquering Ming China. The attempt to conquer \"all under heaven\" (itself a sinocentric concept identifying China as \"the world\") ended in failure.\n\nJapanese responses to Sinocentric concepts have not always been so straightforward. The Mongol invasions in 1274 and 1281 evoked a national consciousness of the role of the kamikaze (神風) in defeating the enemy. Less than fifty years later (1339–43), Kitabatake Chikafusa wrote the Jinnō Shōtōki (神皇正統記, 'Chronicle of the Direct Descent of the Divine Sovereigns') emphasizing the divine descent of the imperial line. The Jinnō Shōtōki provided a Shinto view of history stressing the divine nature of Japan and its spiritual supremacy over China and India.\n\nIn the Tokugawa era, the study of Kokugaku (国学) arose as an attempt to reconstruct and recover the authentic native roots of Japanese culture, particularly Shintoism, excluding later elements borrowed from China. In 1657, Tokugawa Mitsukuni established the Mito School, which was charged with writing a history of Japan as a perfect exemplar of a \"nation\" under Confucian thought, with the emphasis on unified rule by the emperors and respect for the imperial court and Shinto deities.\n\nIn an ironic affirmation of the spirit of Sinocentrism, claims were even heard that the Japanese, not the Chinese, were the legitimate heirs of Chinese culture. Reasons included that the Imperial House of Japan never died out comparing to the rise and fall of Chinese monarchs in the past, and that Japan was free of barbarism like Qing Dynasty's forced adoption of Manchu queue and clothing on Han Chinese after 1644. Combined with Shintoism, came the concept of \"Shinkoku/the Divine Kingdom\"(神國). In the early Edo period, neo-Confucianist Yamaga Sokō asserted that Japan was superior to China in Confucian terms and more deserving of the name \"Chūgoku\". Other scholars picked this up, notably Aizawa Seishisai, an adherent of the Mito School, in his political tract \"Shinron\" (新論 New Theses) in 1825.\n\nAs a country that had much to gain by eclipsing Chinese power in East Asia, Japan in more recent times has perhaps been most ardent in identifying and demolishing what it dismissively calls \"Chūka shisō\" (中華思想), loosely meaning 'Zhonghua ideology'. One manifestation of Japanese resistance to Sinocentrism was the insistence for many years in the early 20th century on using the name \"Shina\" (支那) for China, based on the Western word 'China', in preference to \"Chūgoku\" (中国 Central Country) advocated by the Chinese themselves.\n\nAnother example is the claim, heard among some commentators on China, that general depopulation and the incursion of races from the north during the period of the Three Kingdoms (三国) led to the virtual replacement of the original Chinese race by non-Chinese. The general thrust of this kind of claim is to deny the continuity of a \"pure\" Chinese civilization and discredit modern Chinese claims and appeals to their ancient history.\n\nUnlike East Asian states, which communicated in written Chinese, Burma used a different written language in its communications with China. While China consistently regarded Burma as a vassal, Burma records indicate that Burma considered itself as China's equal. Under the Burmese interpretation, Burma was the \"younger brother\" and China was the \"elder brother\".\n\nThailand was always subordinate to China as a vassal or a tributary state from the Sui dynasty until the Taiping Rebellion of the late Qing dynasty in the mid-19th century. The Sukhothai Kingdom established official relations with the Yuan dynasty during the reign of King Ram Khamhaeng. Wei Yuan, the 19th century Chinese scholar, considered Thailand to be the strongest and most loyal of China's Southeast Asian tributaries, citing the time when Thailand offered to directly attack Japan to divert the Japanese in their planned invasions of Korea and the Asian mainland, as well as other acts of loyalty to the Ming dynasty. Thailand was welcoming and open to Chinese immigrants, who dominated commerce and trade, and achieved high positions in the government.\n\nSri Lanka was a tributary state of the Ming dynasty for many years. It was during this period that Chinese hegemony was most impactful on Sri Lankan politics and commerce. Sri Lankan kings provided tribute to Chinese emperors in the form of pearls, Filigreed gold, gems, ivory and valances. Notably, Parakramabahu VI of Kotte established relations with China in 1416 to appease the Yongle Emperor and to win his support and integrate himself with the Chinese emperor following the Ming–Kotte War. Sri Lanka, like Japan, was considered \"yuanyi\" (remote foreigners; 遠夷) in \"jueyu\" (remote territories; 絕域) under the Imperial Chinese Tributary System.\n\nThe best-known official encounter between Sinocentrism and Europeans was the celebrated Macartney Embassy of 1792-93, which sought to establish a permanent British presence in Peking and open up trade relations. The rebuff of the Chinese Emperor to the British overtures and the British refusal to kowtow to the Emperor of China has passed into legend in Chinese folk culture. In response to the British request to recognise Macartney as ambassador, the Emperor wrote:\n\nThe Celestial Empire, ruling all within the four seas, simply concentrates on carrying out the affairs of Government properly... We have never valued ingenious articles, nor do we have the slightest need of your country's manufactures, therefore O King, as regards to your request to send someone to remain at the capital, which it is not in harmony with the regulations of the Celestial Empire - we also feel very much that it is of no advantage to your country.\n\nHalf a century later, Western Europe forced their way in via the Opium War. Led by the British, one western power after another imposed unequal treaties on China, including provisions of extraterritoriality that excluded Europeans from the application of local laws.\n\nIn a cultural sense, Sinocentrism refers to the tendency to regard Chinese culture as more ancient than or superior to other cultures. This often involves regarding neighboring countries as mere cultural offshoots of China. \nThe geographical dimension of traditional Sinocentrism was highlighted by Chinese reactions to the publication of the first world map by the Jesuit Matteo Ricci (1552–1610):\n\nLately Matteo Ricci utilized some false teachings to fool people, and scholars unanimously believed him...take for example the position of China on the map. He puts it not in the center but slightly to the West and inclined to the north. This is altogether far from the truth, for China should be in the center of the world, which we can prove by the single fact that we can see the North Star resting at the zenith of the heaven at midnight. How can China be treated like a small unimportant country, and placed slightly to the north as in this map?\n\nIn the late Ming and Qing periods, there was a belief in Chinese cultural circles that knowledge entering China from the West had already existed in China in the past. This trend of thought was known in Chinese as \"xi xue zhong yuan\" (西學中源, literally 'Western knowledge has Chinese origins'). \"Xi xue zhong yuan\" was a way to not only enhance the prestige of ancient Chinese learning, but also that of Western learning and make it more acceptable to the Chinese at that time. One notable example was \"Chouren Zhuan\" (疇人傳, \"Biographies of Astronomers and Mathematicians\"), a book by the Qing dynasty scholar Ruan Yuan which adopted the point of view that some Western sciences had an ancient Chinese origin. Scholars such as Ruan saw astronomy and mathematics as a key to deciphering the ancient classics. Until the Sino-Japanese War, some intellectuals believed that some of the sciences and technologies coming from Europe were actually lost ancient Chinese knowledge. The Chinese have abandoned the idea of \"xi xue zhong yuan\" since the early 20th century. \n\nCultural Sinocentrism was the political and cultural core of the region: traditional Chinese language and writing system, ideological frames of the Confucian social and familial order; legal and administrative systems; Buddhism and the art of historiopraphy were using in China, Korean peninsula and also Vietnam.\n\nFollowers of Chinese Buddhism were some of the fiercest critics of Sinocentrism, since they followed a religion that originated in India, rather than China. The monk Zhiyi (538–597 CE) referred to China as \"Zhendan\" (), rather than by any epithet that emphasized China's centrality, such as Zhongguo or Zhonghua. \"Zhendan\" originated in a transcription of the Sanskrit word for China, \"Cinisthana\". Another anti-Sinocentric name for China used by Buddhists was \"country of the Han\" () or \"region of the Han\". Reacting to an insecurity against China's indigenous religions of Confucianism and Daoism, Buddhists in China asserted that Confucius and Yan Hui were avatars of the Buddha, and that Confucianism was merely an offshoot of Buddhism. When Buddhists had influence in the court, such as in the minority-led Tang and Yuan dynasties, they successfully persuaded the imperial governments to censor and destroy Daoist texts. They especially hated the \"Huahujing\", which made the opposite argument to that of the Buddhists; that Buddhism was an offshoot of Daoism.\n\nLiu Ji, one of the key advisors of Zhu Yuanzhang (the founder of the Ming dynasty) generally supported the idea that while the Chinese and the non-Chinese are different, they are actually equal. Liu was therefore arguing against the idea that the Chinese were and are superior to other people.\n\nCulturally, one of the most famous attacks on Sinocentrism and its associated beliefs was made by the author Lu Xun in \"The True Story of Ah Q\", satirizing the ridiculous way in which the protagonist claimed \"spiritual victories\" despite being humiliated and defeated.\n\nThe Sinocentric model of political relations and Sinocentric belief in cultural superiority (especially against the West) came to an end in the 19th century. The Sinocentric ideology suffered a further blow when Imperial Japan, having undergone the Meiji Restoration, defeated China in the First Sino-Japanese War. As a result, China adopted the Westphalian system of equal independent states. In modern Chinese foreign policy, the People's Republic of China has stated repeatedly that it will never seek hegemony (永不称霸). However, some believe there are Chinese who still hold Sinocentric beliefs.\n\nSuccessive peoples from the north, such as the Xianbei, Jurchens, Mongols, or Manchus, were quite ready to place themselves at the center of the model, although they were not always successful. The Xianbei empires during the Southern and Northern dynasties, for example, regarded the Han Chinese regimes of southern China as \"barbarians\" because they refused to submit to Xianbei rule. Similarly, the Manchu Qing dynasty regarded the initial wave of European incursions during the mid-19th century as \"barbarians\".\n\nSinocentrism is also not synonymous with Chinese nationalism. The successive dynasties in China's history were Sinocentric in the sense that they regarded Chinese civilization to be universal in its reach and application. Chinese nationalism, in contrast, is a more modern concept focused primarily on the idea of a unified, cohesive, and powerful Chinese nation, as one of the nations of the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "665641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665641", "title": "Spanish naming customs", "text": "Spanish naming customs\n\nSpanish naming customs are historical traditions for naming children practised in Spain. According to these customs, a person's name consists of a given name (simple or composite) followed by two family names (surnames). The first surname is usually the father's first surname, and the second the mother's first surname. In recent years, the order of the surnames can be decided at birth. Often, the practice is to use one given name and the first surname only (e.g. Miguel de Unamuno), with the full name being used in legal, formal, and documentary matters, or for disambiguation when the first surname is very common (e.g. Federico García Lorca or José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero). In these cases, it is common to use only the second surname, as in “Lorca” or “Zapatero”. Note that this does not affect alphabetization: discussions of \"Lorca\", the Spanish poet, must be alphabetized in an index under “García Lorca\", never \"Lorca\".\n\nCurrently in Spain, people bear a single or composite given name (\"nombre\" in Spanish) and two surnames (\"apellidos\" in Spanish).\n\nA composite given name comprises two (or more) single names; for example \"Juan Pablo\" is considered not to be a first and a second forename, but a single composite forename.\n\nThe two surnames refer to each of the parental families. Traditionally, a person's first surname is the father's first surname (\"apellido paterno\"), while their second surname is the mother's first surname (\"apellido materno\"). For example, if a man named \"Eduardo Fernández Garrido\" marries a woman named \"María Dolores Martínez Ruiz\" and they have a child named \"José\", there are several legal options, but their child would most usually be known as \"José Fernández Martínez\".\n\nSpanish gender equality law has allowed surname transposition since 1999, subject to the condition that every sibling must bear the same surname order recorded in the \"Registro Civil\" (civil registry), but there have been legal exceptions. From 2013, if the parents of a child were unable to agree on the order of surnames, an official would decide which is to come first, with the paternal name being the default option. Since June 2017, adopting the paternal name first is no longer the standard method, and parents are required to sign an agreement wherein the name order is expressed explicitly. The law also grants a person the option, upon reaching adulthood, of reversing the order of their surnames. However, this legislation only applies to Spanish citizens; people of other nationalities are issued the surname indicated by the laws of their original country.\n\nEach surname can also be composite, with the parts usually linked by the conjunction \"y\" or \"e\" (and), by the preposition \"de\" (of), or by a hyphen. For example, a person's name might be Juan Pablo Fernández de Calderón García-Iglesias, consisting of a forename (Juan Pablo), a paternal surname (Fernández de Calderón), and a maternal surname (García-Iglesias).\n\nThere are times when it is impossible, by inspection of a name, to correctly analyse it. For example, the writer Sebastià Juan Arbó was alphabetised by the Library of Congress for many years under \"Arbó\", assuming that Sebastià and Juan were both given names. However, \"Juan\" was actually his first surname. Resolving questions like this, which typically involve very common names (\"Juan\" is rarely a surname), often requires the consultation of the person involved or legal documents pertaining to them.\n\nA man named José Antonio Gómez Iglesias would normally be addressed as either \"señor Gómez\" or \"señor Gómez Iglesias\" instead of \"señor Iglesias\", because \"Gómez\" is his first surname. Furthermore, Mr. Gómez might be informally addressed as\nVery formally, he could be addressed with an honorific such as \"don José Antonio\" or \"don José\".\nIt is not unusual, when the first surname is very common, like \"García\" in the example above, for a person to be referred to formally using both family names, or casually by his or her second surname only. For example, José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero (elected President of the Spanish Government in the 2004 and 2008 general elections) is often called simply Zapatero, the name he inherited from his mother's family, since Rodríguez is a common surname and may be ambiguous. The same occurs with another former Spanish Socialist leader, Alfredo Pérez Rubalcaba, with the poet and dramatist Federico García Lorca, and with the painter Pablo Ruiz Picasso. As these people's paternal names are very common, they are often called with their maternal names (Rubalcaba, Lorca, Picasso). It would nonetheless be a mistake to index José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero under Z as \"Zapatero\", or Federico García Lorca under L as \"Lorca\".\n\nIn an English-speaking environment, Spanish-named people sometimes hyphenate their surnames to avoid Anglophone confusion or to fill in forms with only one space provided for last name, thus: Mr. José Antonio Gómez-Iglesias. A practical option to spare an explanation is using a single surname composed of two separate words.\n\nParents choose their child's given name, which must be recorded in the \"Registro Civil\" (Civil Registry) to establish his or her legal identity. With few restrictions, parents can now choose any name; common sources of names are the parents' taste, honouring a relative, the General Roman Calendar \"nomina\" (nominal register), and traditional Spanish names. Legislation in Spain under Franco legally limited cultural naming customs to only Christian (Jesus, Mary, saints) and typical Spanish names (Álvaro, Jimena, etc.). Although the first part of a composite forename generally reflects the gender of the child, the second personal name need not (e.g. José María Aznar). At present, the only naming limitation is the dignity of the child, who cannot be given an insulting name. Similar limitations applied against diminutive, familiar, and colloquial variants not recognized as names proper, and \"those that lead to confusion regarding sex\";\nhowever, current law allows registration of diminutive names.\n\nGirls are often named \"María\", honouring the Virgin Mary, by appending either a shrine, place, or religious-concept suffix-name to \"María\". In daily life, such women omit the \"Mary of the ...\" nominal prefix, and use the suffix portion of their composite names as their public, rather than legal, identity. Hence, women with Marian names such as \"María de los Ángeles\" (Mary of the Angels), \"María del Pilar\" (Mary of the Pillar), and \"María de la Luz\" (Mary of the Light), are normally addressed as \"Ángeles\" (Angels), \"Pilar\" (Pillar), and \"Luz\" (Light); however, each might be addressed as \"María\". Nicknames such as \"Maricarmen\" for \"María del Carmen\", \"Marisol\" for \"María (de la) Soledad\" (\"Our Lady of Solitude\", the Virgin Mary), \"Dolores\" or \"Lola\" for \"María de los Dolores\" (\"Our Lady of Sorrows\"), \"Mercedes\" or \"Merche\" for \"María de las Mercedes\" (\"Our Lady of Mercy\"), etc. are often used. Also, parents can simply name a girl \"María\", or \"Mari\" without a suffix portion.\n\nIt is not unusual for a boy's formal name to include \"María\", preceded by a masculine name, e.g. José María Aznar (Joseph Mary Aznar) or Juan María Vicencio de Ripperdá (John Mary Vicencio de Ripperdá). Equivalently, a girl can be formally named \"María José\" (Mary Joseph), e.g. skier María José Rienda, and informally named \"Marijose\", \"Mariajo\", \"Majo\", \"Ajo\", \"Josefa\", \"Josefina\", \"Fina\", \"Pepa\", \"Pepi\", \"Chepi\", \"Pepita\", \"Marisé\" or even \"José\" in honor of St. Joseph. \"María\" as a masculine name is often abbreviated in writing as M. (José M. Aznar), Ma. (José Ma. Aznar), or M.ª (José M.ª Morelos). It is unusual for any names other than the religiously significant \"María\" and \"José\" to be used in this way except for the name Jesús that is also very common and can be used as \"Jesús\" or \"Jesús María\" for a boy and \"María Jesús\" for a girl, and can be abbreviated as \"Sus\", \"Chus\" and other nicknames.\n\nThe \"Registro Civil\" (Civil Registry) officially records a child's identity as composed of a forename (simple or composite) and the two surnames; however, a child can be religiously baptized with several forenames, e.g. Felipe Juan Froilán de Todos los Santos. Until the 1960s, it was customary to baptize children with three forenames: the first was the main and the only one used by the child; if parents agreed, one of the other two was the name of the day's saint. Nowadays, baptizing with three or more forenames is usually a royal and noble family practice.\n\nIn Spain, upon marrying, one does not change one's surname. In some instances, such as high society meetings, the partner's surname can be added \"after\" the person's surnames using the preposition \"de\". An example would be a \"Leocadia Blanco Álvarez\", married to a \"Pedro Pérez Montilla\", may be addressed as \"Leocadia Blanco de Pérez\" or as \"Leocadia Blanco Álvarez de Pérez\". This format is not used in everyday settings and has no legal value.\n\nIn the generational transmission of surnames, the paternal surname's precedence eventually eliminates the maternal surnames from the family lineage. Contemporary law (1999) allows the maternal surname to be given precedence, but most people observe the traditional paternal–maternal surname order. So the daughter and son of Ángela López Sáenz and Tomás Portillo Blanco are usually called Laura Portillo López and Pedro Portillo López, but could also be called Laura López Portillo and Pedro López Portillo. The two surnames of all siblings must be in the same order when recorded in the \"Registro Civil\".\n\nPatrilineal surname transmission was not always the norm in Spanish-speaking societies. Prior to the mid-eighteenth century, when the current paternal-maternal surname combination norm was adopted, Hispanophone societies often practised matrilineal surname transmission, giving children the maternal surname, and, occasionally, giving children a grandparent's surname (borne by neither parent) for prestige – being perceived as gentry – and profit, flattering the matriarch or the patriarch in hope of inheriting land. The Spanish naming customs include the orthographic option of conjoining the surnames with the conjunction particle \"y\", or \"e\" before a name starting with 'I', 'Hi' or 'Y', (both meaning \"and\") e.g. José Ortega y Gasset, or Tomás Portillo y Blanco, or Eduardo Dato e Iradier, following an antiquated aristocratic usage.\n\nNot every surname is a single word; such conjoining usage is common with doubled surnames (maternal-paternal), ancestral composite surnames bequeathed to the following generations – especially when the paternal surname is socially undistinguished. José María Álvarez del Manzano y López del Hierro is an example, his name comprising the composite single name José María, and two composite surnames Álvarez del Manzano and López del Hierro. Other examples derive from church place-names such as San José. When a person bears doubled surnames, the means of disambiguation is to insert \"y\" between the paternal and maternal surnames.\n\nIn case of illegitimacy – when the child's father either is unknown or refuses to recognise his son or daughter legally – the child bears both of the mother's surnames, which may be interchanged.\n\nOccasionally, a person with a common paternal surname and an uncommon maternal surname becomes widely known by the maternal surname. The artist Pablo Ruiz Picasso, the poet Federico García Lorca, and the politician José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero are examples. With similar effect, the foreign paternal surname of the Uruguayan writer Eduardo Hughes Galeano (his father was British) is usually omitted. (As a boy, however, he occasionally signed his name as \"Eduardo Gius\", using a Hispanicised approximation of the English pronunciation of \"Hughes\".) Such use of the second last name by itself is colloquial, however, and may not be applied in legal contexts.\n\nAlso rarely, a person may become widely known by both surnames, with an example being tennis player Arantxa Sánchez Vicario – whereas her older brothers Emilio and Javier, also professional tennis players, are mainly known only by the paternal surname of Sánchez in everyday life, although they also would \"formally\" be addressed as \"Sánchez Vicario\".\n\nWhere Basque and Romance cultures have linguistically long coexisted, the surnames denote the father's name and the (family) house or town/village. Thus the Romance patronymic and the place-name are conjoined with the prepositional particle \"de\" (\"from\"+\"provenance\"). For example, in the name \"José Ignacio López de Arriortúa\", the composite surname \"López de Arriortúa\" is a single surname, despite \"Arriortúa\" being the original family-name. This can lead to confusion, because the Spanish \"López\" and the Basque \"Arriortúa\" are discrete surnames in Spanish and Basque respectively. This pattern was also in use in other Basque districts, but was phased out in most of the Basque-speaking areas and only remained in place across lands of heavy Romance influence, i.e. some central areas of Navarre and most of Álava. To a lesser extent, this pattern has been also present in Castile, where Basque-Castilian bilingualism was common in northern and eastern areas up to the 13th century.\n\nIn Spanish, the preposition particle de (\"of\") is used as a conjunction in two surname spelling styles, and to disambiguate a surname. The first style is in patronymic and toponymic spelling formulæ, e.g. Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba, Pedro López de Ayala, and Vasco Núñez de Balboa, as in many \"conquistador\" names.\n\nThe spellings of surnames containing the prepositional particle de are written in lower-case when they follow the name, thus \"José Manuel de la Rúa\" (\"of the street\") and \"Cunegunda de la Torre\" (\"of the tower\"), otherwise the upper-case spellings \"doctor De la Rúa\" and \"señora De la Torre\" are used.\n\n\n\nBearing the de particle does not necessarily denote a noble family, especially in Castile and Alava, the \"de\" usually applied to the place-name (town or village) from which the person and his or her ancestors originated; however, in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, the usage of \"de\" spread as a way of denoting the bearer's noble heritage to avoid the misperception that he or she is either a Jew or a Moor. In that time, many people, regardless of their true origins, used the particle, e.g. \"Miguel de Cervantes\", \"Lope de Vega\", etc.; moreover, following that fashion a high noble such as \"Francisco Sandoval Rojas\" called himself \"Francisco de Sandoval y Rojas\". During the eighteenth century, the Spanish nobility fully embraced the French custom of using de as a nobility identifier, however, commoners also bore the de particle, which made the de usages unclear; thus, nobility was emphasised with the surname's lineage.\n\nIn the sixteenth century, the Spanish adopted the copulative conjunction y (\"and\") to distinguish a person's surnames; thus the Andalusian Baroque writer Luis de Góngora y Argote (1561–1627), the Aragonese painter Francisco José de Goya y Lucientes (1746–1828), the Andalusian artist Pablo Diego Ruiz y Picasso (1881–1973), and the Madrilenian liberal philosopher José Ortega y Gasset (1883–1955). In Hispanic America, this spelling convention was common to clergymen (e.g. Salvadoran Bishop Óscar Arnulfo Romero y Galdámez), and sanctioned by the \"Ley de Registro Civil\" (Civil Registry Law) of 1870, requiring birth certificates indicating the paternal and maternal surnames conjoined with y – thus, \"Felipe González y Márquez\" and \"José María Aznar y López\" are the respective true names of the Spanish politicians Felipe González Márquez and José María Aznar López; however, unlike in Catalan, the Spanish usage is infrequent. In the Philippines, y and its associated usages are retained only in formal state documents such as police records, but is otherwise dropped in favour of a more American-influenced naming order.\n\nThe conjunction y avoids denominational confusion when the paternal surname might appear to be a (first) name; hence the physiologist Santiago Ramón y Cajal might appear to be named \"Santiago Ramón\" (composite) and surnamed \"Cajal\", likewise the jurist \"Francisco Tomás y Valiente\", and the cleric \"Vicente Enrique y Tarancón\". Without the conjunction, the footballer Rafael Martín Vázquez, when referred to by his surnames \"Martín Vázquez\" mistakenly appears to be forenamed \"Martín\" rather than \"Rafael\", whilst, to his annoyance, the linguist Fernando Lázaro Carreter occasionally was addressed as \"Don Lázaro\", rather than as \"Don Fernando\" (Lázaro can be either forename or surname).\n\nMoreover, when the maternal surname begins with an \"i\" vowel sound, written with either the vowel I (Ibarra), the vowel Y (Ybarra archaic spelling) or the combination Hi + \"consonant\" (\"Higueras\"), Spanish euphony substitutes e in place of y, thus the example of the Spanish statesman Eduardo Dato e Iradier (1856–1921).\n\nTo communicate a person's social identity, Spanish naming customs provide orthographic means, such as suffix-letter abbreviations, surname spellings, and place names, which denote and connote the person's place in society.\n\nh. (son of): A man named like his father, might append the lower-case suffix h. (denoting \"hijo\", son) to his surname, thus distinguishing himself, \"Juan Gómez Marcos, h.\", from his father, \"Juan Gómez Marcos\"; the English analogue is \"Jr.\" (\"son\").\n\n–ez: Spanish surnames ending in -ez originated as patronymics denoting \"the son of\" – \"Fernández\" (son of Fernando), \"González\" (son of Gonzalo) – yet not every such surname is patronymic, because in many Spanish dialects the Spanish-language letters z and s are pronounced alike, leading to the same word being spelt with either \"s\" or \"z\". In Hispano-American Spanish, the -ez spellings of \"Chávez\" (Hugo Chávez), \"Cortez\" (Alberto Cortez) and \"Valdez\" (Nelson Valdez) are not patronymic surnames, because they are variant spellings of the Iberian Spanish spelling with -es, as in the names of Manuel Chaves, Hernán Cortés and Víctor Valdés. For more on the \"-z\" surnames in Spanish see Influences on the Spanish language.\nAnonymous foundlings were a naming problem for civil registrars, but such anonymous children were often named toponymically, after the town where they were found. Because most foundlings were reared in church orphanages, they were often given the surnames \"Iglesia\" or \"Iglesias\" (church[es]) and \"Cruz\" (cross). \"Blanco\" (connoting \"blank\" here, rather than the more usual \"white\") was another option. A toponymical first surname might be followed as second surname by \"Iglesia\" or \"Cruz\".\n\nFoundlings often were surnamed \"Expósito\"/\"Expósita\" (Lat. \"exposĭtus\", \"exposed\", connoting \"foundling\"), which marked them, and their descendants, as of low caste and social class, people without social pedigree. In the Catalan language the surname \"Deulofeu\" (\"made by God\") was often given to foundlings. In 1921 Spanish law allowed the surname \"Expósito\" to be changed without charge.\n\nIn Aragón, anonymous children used to receive as well the family surname \"Gracia\" (\"grace\") or \"de Gracia\", because they were thought to survive by the grace of God.\n\nIn Spain, legal and illegal foreign immigrants retain use of their cultural naming customs, yet upon becoming Spanish citizens, they are legally obliged to assume Spanish-style names (a name and two surnames). If the naturalised person is from a one-surname culture, the actual surname is duplicated; therefore, the English name \"George Albert Duran\" becomes the Spanish name \"George Albert Duran Duran\", yet the law optionally allows him to adopt his mother's maiden name (her surname), as his maternal (second) surname. Formally, Spanish naming customs conflate his name \"George\" and his middle-name \"Albert\" to the composite name \"George Albert\", and his sole surname, \"Duran\", is duplicated as his paternal and maternal surnames.\n\nHistorically, flamenco artists seldom used their proper names. According to the flamenco guitarist Juan Serrano, this was because flamenco was considered disreputable and they did not want to embarrass their families:\n\nThis tradition has persisted to the present day, even though Flamenco is now legitimate. Sometimes the artistic name consists of the home town appended to the first name (Manolo Sanlúcar, Ramón de Algeciras); but many, perhaps most, of such names are more eccentric: Pepe de la Matrona (because his mother was a midwife); Perico del Lunar (because he had a mole); Tomatito (son of a father known as \"Tomate\" (tomato) because of his red face); Sabicas (because of his childhood passion for green beans, from \"niño de las habicas\"); Paco de Lucía, born Francisco (\"Paco\") Gustavo Sánchez Gomes, was known from infancy after his Portuguese mother, Lucía Gomes (de Lucía = [son] of Lucía). And many more.\n\nMany Spanish names can be shortened into hypocoristic, affectionate \"child-talk\" forms using a diminutive suffix, especially -ito and -cito (masculine) and -ita and -cita (feminine). Sometimes longer than the person's name, a nickname is usually derived via linguistic rules. However, in contrast to English use, hypocoristic names in Spanish are only used to address a person in a very familiar environment – the only exception being when the hypocoristic is an artistic name (e.g. Nacho Duato born Juan Ignacio Duato). The common English practice of using a nickname in the press or media, or even on business cards (such as Bill Gates instead of William Gates), is not accepted in Spanish, being considered excessively colloquial. The usages vary by country and region; these are some usual names and their nicknames:\nThe official recognition of Spain's other written languages – Catalan, Basque, and Galician – legally allowed the autonomous communities to re-establish their vernacular social identity, including the legal use of personal names in the local languages and written traditions – banned since 1938 – sometimes via the re-spelling of names from Castilian Spanish to their original languages.\n\nThe Basque-speaking territories (the Basque Autonomous Community and Navarre) usually follow Spanish naming customs (given names + two family names, the two family names being usually the father's and the mother's).\n\nThe given names are officially in one language (Basque or Spanish) but often people use a translated or shortened version. A bilingual Basque-Spanish speaker will not necessarily bear a Basque name, and a monolingual Spanish speaker can use a Basque name or a Basque hypocoristic of an official Spanish name; e.g. a \"Francisco\" (official Spanish name) may be known as \"Patxi\" (Basque hypocoristic).\n\nSome Basque-language names and surnames are foreign transliterations into the Basque tongue, e.g. \"Ander\" (English: \"Andrew\"; Spanish: \"Andrés\"), \"Mikel\" (English: \"Michael\"; Spanish: \"Miguel\"), or \"Ane\" (English: \"Anne\"; Spanish: \"Ana\"). In some cases, the name's original-language denotation is translated to Basque, e.g., \"Zutoia\" and \"Zedarri\" denote the Spanish \"Pilar\" (English: \"Pillar\"). Moreover, some originally Basque names, such as \"Xabier\" and \"Eneko\" (English \"Xavier\" and \"Inigo\") have been transliterated into Spanish (\"Javier\" and \"Íñigo\").\n\nRecently, Basque names without a direct equivalent in other languages have become popular, e.g. \"Aitor\" (a legendary patriarch), \"Hodei\" (\"cloud\"), \"Iker\" (\"to investigate\"), and \"Amaia\" (\"the end\"). Some Basque names without a direct Spanish meaning, are unique to the Basque language, for instance, \"Eneko\", \"Garikoitz\", \"Urtzi\". Basque names, rather than Spanish names, are preponderant in the Basque Country, countering the Spanish-name imposition of the Franco régime requiring people being given only Spanish names at birth. After Franco's death and the restoration of democracy in Spain, many Basque adults changed their Spanish names to the Basque equivalent, e.g. from \"Miguel\" to \"Mikel\".\n\nA source for modern Basque names is Sabino Arana's \"Deun-Ixendegi Euzkotarra\" (\"Basque saint-name collection\", published in 1910). Instead of the traditional Basque adaptations of Romance names, he proposed others he made up and that in his opinion were truer to the originals and adapted better to the Basque phonology. For example, his brother Luis became \"Koldobika\", from Frankish \"Hlodwig\". The traditionals \"Peru\" (from Spanish \"Pedro\"), \"Pello\" or \"Piarres\" (from French \"Pierre\"), all meaning \"Peter\", became \"Kepa\" from Aramaic כיפא (Kepha). He believed that the suffix \"-[n]e\" was inherently feminine, and new names like \"Nekane\" (\"pain\"+\"ne\",\"Dolores\") or \"Garbiñe\" (\"clean\"+\"ne\", \"Immaculate [Conception]\") are frequent among Basque females.\n\nBasque surnames usually denote the patronymic house of the bearer; e.g. \"Etxebarria\" – \"the new house\", from \"etxe\" (house) + \"barri\" (new) + \"a\" (the), denotes \"related to a so-named farmhouse\"; in the same way, \"Garaikoetxea\" – \"the house in the heights\", \"garai\" (\"height\") + \"etxe\" (\"house\") + \"a\" (the). Sometimes, surnames denote not the house itself but a characteristic of the place, e.g. \"Saratxaga\" – \"willow-place\", from \"saratze\" (\"willow\") + \"-aga\" (\"place of\"); \"Loyola\", from \"loi\" (\"mud\") + \"ola\" (\"iron smithery\"); \"Arriortua\" – \"stone orchard\", from \"harri\" (\"stone\") + \"ortua\" (\"orchard\"). Before the 20th century all Basque men were considered nobles (indeed, some Basque surnames, e.g. \"Irujo\" or \"Medoza\", were related to some of the oldest Spanish noble families), and many of them used their status to emigrate with privileges to other regions of the Spanish Empire, especially the Americas, due to which some Basque surnames became common to the Spanish-American world; e.g. \"Mendoza\" – \"cold mountain\", from \"mendi\" (\"mountain\" + \"hotza\" (\"cold\"); \"Salazar\" – \"Old hall\", from \"sala\" (\"hall\") + \"zahar\" (\"old\"). Until 1978, Spanish was the single official language of the Spanish civil registries and Basque surnames had to be registered according to the Spanish phonetical rules (for example, the Spanish \"ch\" sound merges the Basque \"ts\", \"tx\", and \"tz\", and someone whose surname in Standard Basque would be \"Krutxaga\" would have to write it as \"Cruchaga\", letter \"k\" also not being used in Spanish). Although the democratic restoration ended this policy, allowing surnames to be officially changed into their Basque phonology, there still are many people who hold Spanish-written Basque surnames, even in the same family: a father born before 1978 would be surnamed \"Echepare\" and his children, \"Etxepare\". This policy even changed the usual pronunciation of some Basque surnames. For instance, in Basque, the letter \"z\" maintained a sibilant \"s\"-like sound, while Spanish changed it; thus, a surname such as \"Zabala\" should be properly read similar to \"sabala\" (), although in Spanish, because the \"z\" denotes a \"th\" sound (), it would be read as \"Tha-bala\" (). However, since the letter \"z\" exists in Spanish, the registries did not force the Zabalas to transliterate their surname.\n\nIn the Basque provinces of Biscay and Gipuzkoa, it was uncommon to take a surname from the place (town or village) where one resided, unless one was a foundling; in general, people bearing surnames such as \"Bilbao\" (after the Basque city of Bilbao) are descendants of foundlings. However, in the Basque province of Alava and, to a lesser extent, in Navarre, it was common to add one's birth village to the surname using the Spanish particle \"de\" to denote a \"toponymic\", particularly when the surname was a common one; for instance, someone whose surname was \"Lopez\" and whose family was originally from the valley of \"Ayala\" could employ \"Lopez de Ayala\" as a surname. This latter practice is also common in Castile.\n\nBasque compound surnames are relatively common, and were created with two discrete surnames, e.g. \"Elorduizapaterietxe\" – \"Elordui\" + \"Zapaterietxe\", a practice denoting family allegiances or the equal importance of both families. This custom sometimes conduced to incredibly long surnames, for compound surnames could be used to create others; for example, the longest surname recorded in Spain is Basque, \"Burionagonatotoricagageazcoechea\", formed by \"Buriona\"+ \"Gonatar\" + \"Totorika\" + \"Beazcoetxea\".\n\nFinally, the nationalist leader Sabino Arana pioneered a naming custom of transposing the name-surname order to what he thought was the proper Basque language syntax order; e.g. the woman named \"Miren Zabala\" would be referred to as \"Zabalatar Miren\" – the surname first, plus the \"-tar\" suffix denoting \"from a place\", and then the name. Thus, \"Zabalatar Miren\" means \"Miren, of the Zabala family\". The change in the order is effected because in the Basque tongue, declined words (such as \"Zabalatar\") that apply to a noun are uttered before the noun itself; another example of this would be his pen name, \"Arana ta Goiritar Sabin\". This Basque naming custom was used in nationalist literature, not in formal, official documents wherein the Castilian naming convention is observed.\n\nThe Catalan-speaking territories also abide by the Spanish naming customs, yet usually the discrete surnames are joined with the word i (\"and\"), instead of the Spanish y, and this practice is very common in formal contexts. For example, the former president of the Generalitat de Catalunya (Government of Catalonia) is formally called El Molt Honorable Senyor Carles Puigdemont i Casamajó. Furthermore, the national language policy enumerated in article 19.1 of Law 1/1998 stipulates that \"the citizens of Catalonia have the right to use the proper regulation of their Catalan names and surnames and to introduce the conjunction between surnames\".\n\nThe correction, translation, and surname-change are regulated by the \"Registro Civil\" (Civil Registry) with the Decree 138/2007 of 26 June, modifying the Decree 208/1998 of 30 July, which regulates the accreditation of the linguistic correctness of names. The attributes and functions of Decree 138/2007 of 26 July regulate the issuance of language-correction certificates for translated Catalan names, by the Institut d'Estudis Catalans (Institute of Catalan Studies) in Barcelona. Nevertheless, there are Catalan surnames that conform to neither the current spelling rules nor to the traditionally correct Catalan spelling rules; a language-correction certification can be requested from the Institut d'Estudis Catalans, for names such as these:\n\nMany Catalan names are shortened to hypocoristic forms using only the final portion of the name (unlike Spanish, which mostly uses only the first portion of the name), and with a diminutive suffix (-et, -eta/-ita). Thus, shortened Catalan names taking the first portion of the name are probably influenced by the Spanish tradition. The influence of Spanish in hypocoristics is recent since it became a general fashion only in the twentieth century and specially since Francisco Franco's dictatorship; example Catalan names are:\n\nThe Galician-speaking areas also abide the Spanish naming customs. Main differences are the usage of Galician given names and surnames.\n\nMost Galician surnames have their origin in local toponymies, being these either Galician regions (Sanlés < Salnés, Carnota, Bergantiños), towns (Ferrol, Noia), parishes or villages (as Andrade). Just like elsewhere, many surnames were also generated from jobs or professions (Carpinteiro 'carpenter', Cabaleiro 'Knight', Ferreiro 'Smith', Besteiro 'Crossbowman'), physical characteristics (Gago 'Twangy', Tato 'Stutterer', Couceiro 'Tall and thin', Bugallo 'fat', Pardo 'Swarthy'), or origin of the person (Franco and Francés 'French', Portugués 'Portuguese').\n\nAlthough many Galician surnames have been historically adapted into Spanish phonetics and orthography, they are still clearly recognizable as Galician words: Freijedo, Spanish adaptation of \"freixedo\" 'place with ash-trees'; Seijo from \"seixo\" 'stone'; Doval from \"do Val\" 'of the Valley'; Rejenjo from \"Reguengo\", Galician evolution of local Latin-Germanic word \"Regalingo\" 'Royal property'.\n\nSpecially relevant are the Galician surnames originated from medieval patronymics, present in local documentation since the 9th century, and popularized from the 12th century on. Although many of them have been historically adapted into Spanish orthography, phonetics and traditions, many are still characteristically Galician; most common ones are:\nSome of them (namely Páez, Méndez, Vázquez) are characteristically Galician due to the drop of intervocalic -l-, -d-, -g- and -n-, but the most present surnames in Galicia could also be of Spanish origin (although Lugo is the only province in Spain with a majority of people surnamed \"López\").\n\nSome common Galician names are:\n\nNicknames are usually obtained from the end of a given name, or through derivation. Common suffixes include masculine -iño, -ito (as in \"Sito\", from \"Luisito\"), -echo (\"Tonecho\", from \"Antonecho\") and -uco (\"Farruco\", from \"Francisco\"); and feminine -iña, -ucha/uxa (\"Maruxa\", \"Carmucha\", from \"Maria\" and \"Carme\"), -uca (\"Beluca\", from \"Isabeluca\"), and -ela (\"Mela\", from \"Carmela\").\n\nAs the provincial \"Surname distribution\" map (above) indicates, Mohamed is an often-occurring surname in the autonomous Mediterranean North African cities of Ceuta and Melilla (respectively registered 10,410 and 7,982 occurrences), Hispanophone Muslims use the Spanish \"Mohamed\" spelling for \"Muhammad\". As such, it is often a component of Arabic names for men; hence, many Ceutan and Melillan Muslims share surnames despite not sharing a common ancestry. Furthermore, \"Mohamed\" (Muhammad) is the most popular name for new-born boys, thus it is not unusual to encounter a man named \"Mohamed Mohamed Mohamed\": the first occurrence is the given name, the second occurrence is the paternal surname, and the third occurrence is the maternal surname.\n\nIn English the Chicago Manual of Style recommends that Spanish and Hispanophone names be indexed by the family name. When there are two family names, the indexing is done under the father's family name; this would be the first element of the surname if the father's and mother's or husband's family names are joined by a \"y\". Depending upon the person involved, the particle \"de\" may be treated as a part of a family name or it may be separated from a family name. The indexing of Hispanophone names differs from that of Portuguese or Lusophone names, where the final element of the name is indexed because the Portuguese custom is to for the father's surname to follow, rather than precede, the mother's. The effect is that the father's surname is the one indexed both for Spanish and Portuguese names.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17455926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17455926", "title": "Stuart Binny", "text": "Stuart Binny\n\nStuart Terence Roger Binny (born 3 June 1984), is an International Indian cricketer, who plays for One Day Internationals, Twenty20 Internationals, and Tests.He plays for the Rajasthan Royals in the Indian Premier League.\n\nHe is the son of former Indian Test cricketer Roger Binny. He was born in Bangalore and attended middle school in The Frank Anthony Public School, Bangalore. He attended high school in The St. Joseph's Indian High School where his father Roger Binny was the school cricket coach for that period. He also took coaching in IACA under coach Imtiaz Ahmed.\nStuart Binny married Mayanti Langer in 2012. He plays for Rajasthan Royals in the Indian Premier league 2018 edition.\n\nHe made his Karnataka debut in the 2003/04 season but couldn't maintain a regular place in the first-class line-up. He considers himself a limited-overs specialist and when the Indian Cricket League began in 2007, he signed up and made a name for himself as one of the tournament's premier all-rounders. After two fulfilling seasons, he accepted the BCCI's amnesty offer and quit the ICL.\n\nIn IPL 2010, he was bought by a Mumbai-based Indian Premier League franchise Mumbai Indians. In IPL 2011, Binny was bought by the Rajasthan Royals. During the IPL 2016 auctions, he was bagged by Royal Challengers Bangalore for a price of 2 crore INR.\n\nBinny, afterward, started to perform well in domestic competitions. He amassed 283 runs in Shimoga, taking his tournament tally to 686 runs at an average of 76.22, making him the third-highest run-getter in the league stage.\n\nMost of his runs have come in fire-fighting causes, yet they have been scored at a strike-rate of 83.55, and have included 14 sixes the most by a single player in the season. He has taken 15 wickets at 20.73 this year including a 10-wicket haul against Odisha. \nIn the IPL Binny hit 32 not out off 13 balls against Pune Warriors India to help Royals get to their target of 179 with a ball and five wickets to spare and thus keep their 100% record in Jaipur intact.\n\nBinny's unbeaten 41 against Chennai Super Kings where he partnered Shane Watson at the end, put Royals in the playoffs.\n\nIn their next match against Mumbai Indians, he turned the floundering innings around with an unbeaten 37 threatening Mumbai after they had reduced Royals to 28 for 4.\n\nBinny was picked for India's ODI team for the tour of New Zealand 2014. He played his first One day International match on 28 January 2014 where he bowled an over in which he gave 8 runs and didn’t bat in the match.\nHe also played in the Arise Asia Cup 2014 and scored a duck. On 17 June 2014 against Bangladesh Binny secured six wickets conceding only four runs surpassing Anil Kumble to have the best bowling record for any Indian bowler. He also scored alone 25* in the 3rd match vs Bangladesh, before the match being called off due to rain.\nHe made his Test Debut in the 1st Test against England in tour of England 2014 and scored 1 run in his debut innings and 78 runs in the second innings. He was picked in 15-man squad for Cricket World Cup 2015 in Australia and New Zealand. He did not play a single match in the tournament.\n\nBinny was later selected for the 2nd and 3rd test matches in Sri Lanka in August 2015, this came as a surprise pick after the Indians lost to Sri Lanka in the first test. He was swapped with Harbhajan Singh, he took 3 wickets for 2 innings and scored 15 and 8 in the first and second innings.\n\nHe made his Twenty20 International debut for India against Zimbabwe on 17 July 2015.\nIn 2016, in a T20i match against West Indies in Florida, Evin Lewis hit him for 5 sixes in a row. Binny also bowled a wide and gave 32 runs in that over.\n\n"}
{"id": "5777246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5777246", "title": "Student development theories", "text": "Student development theories\n\nStudent Development Theory refers to the body of educational psychology that theorizes how students gain knowledge in post-secondary educational environments.\n\nThe earliest manifestation of student development theory — or tradition — in Europe was \"in loco parentis\". Loosely translated, this concept refers to the manner in which children's schools acted on behalf of and in partnership with parents for the moral and ethical development and improvement of students' character development. Ostensibly this instruction emphasized traditional Christian values through strict rules, enforced by rigid discipline. As such, the primary objective of \"in loco parentis\" was on the conditioning of social and individual behavior, rather than intellectual cultivation.\n\nThe second distinct shift toward a unified student development theory emerged in the late nineteenth century, through the first quarter of the twentieth century, marked by the growth of colleges and universities throughout Europe and the United States, simultaneous with the development of social science disciplines like psychology. By mid-twentieth century, behavioral psychologists such as B.F. Skinner and Carl Rogers influenced educational theory and policy, and a new paradigm emerged known as the \"Student Services\" paradigm. As the name indicates, the \"Student Services\" perspective articulated that students ought to be provided with the services that benefit knowledge acquisition.\n\nBy the mid-twentieth century, the service paradigm started to be replaced with the \"student development\" paradigm. This paradigm was influenced by the growing body of psychological and sociological theories, reflecting the idea that students learn both in-class and out-of-class, and are influenced both by their genetics and social environment (see nature and nurture).\n\nBasic assumptions guiding the student development movement:\n\nStudent development theories generally can be divided into five categories:\n\nThere are dozens of theories falling into these five families. Among the most known are:\n\nSchlossberg’s Transition Theory has been worked on over time and has changed some of it original context. This theory is mostly based on the individual and what they consider to be a transition in their life. This theory is used as a guideline from what steps should be taken during the transition to help the young adult to continue to work on and transition into what they need. We use different questionnaires to determine and assess the ability of a certain person to cope with the transition. Here is a quick review of the steps and ideas behind Schlossberg’s Theory:\n\n\nUsing ideas of Piaget and cognitive development Kohlberg looks into the judgments of people and what they consider justifiable to determine about their ideas of Morality come into play. Using only these ideas, not culture, we see how people develop their own moral code and how it changes or stays the same over time.\n\n\nLooking at how you learn as an individual is a huge part in your development of self according to Kolb and his model. By knowing what you need to do to learn it makes it easier for you as an individual to grow as a person. Using the different personality types and ways to learn, we become more self-aware and willing to learn from new ways.\n\n\nSanford's Theory of Challenge and Support states that for optimal student developmental growth in a college environment, challenges they experience must be met with supports that can sufficiently tolerate the stress of the challenge itself. Nevitt Sanford, a psychologist, was a scholar who theorized about the process college students would encounter throughout their college development. He addressed the relationship between the student and their college environment. Sanford proposed three developmental conditions: readiness, challenge, and support.\n\n(1) Readiness refers to internal processes associated with maturation or beneficial environmental factors. This condition of readiness can aid a student's developmental growth if he or she is physically or psychologically ready. If not, it could limit their developmental growth. (2) Challenge refers to situations in which an individual does not have the skills, knowledge, or attitude to cope. (3) Support refers to buffers in the environment that help the individual to successfully meet challenges. Sanford speculated that if students are met with too much challenge, they could regress in their developmental growth and give up on the challenge at hand. For example, in a review by the University of California, Los Angeles, Chaves discussed the juggling of multiple challenges that adult student learners encounter such as integration into an institution, commuting to campus, social integration, and absence from school for a number of years that cause adult student learners to regress in their time to graduation or not graduate at all. If students are met with excessive support, they may not understand what they need and their development would be limited. For example, in a qualitative study grounded in constructivist theory methodology, Marx concluded that college campuses provided too much support, limiting students' forward movement in their ability to internally define their own beliefs, identity, and relationships during college. In both studies, the research indicated that students were unable to reach optimal developmental growth without the appropriate amount of challenge or support.\n\nIt is likely that most students will face an academic, social, or personal challenge during their postsecondary college or university journey. Research shows that challenges are different for traditional age students and adult student learners, various marginalized and majority identity groups, international students, students in specific learning communities, and numerous other characteristics. Research indicates that support for students can be in the form of mentoring and involvement from faculty, staff, family, and peers, ability to be involved in meaningful college activity, believing they matter, and designing their own curriculum or programs, among other support options. When challenges are met with appropriate support, students' developmental growth in a college environment is optimal. For example, a longitudinal study conducted by Ong, Phinney, and Dennis examined 123 Latinx college students attending an ethnically diverse urban university in southern California. These Latinx students faced challenges of being low socioeconomic status (SES), psychological stress, feelings of alienation, and low rates of college retention. However, these students were met with consistent parental support, family interdependence, and an affirmation of their membership in their ethnic group. The support correlated positively to an increased grade point average and greater academic achievement, resilience, and positive adaptation.\n\nStudent development theories, such as Sanford's Theory of Challenge and Support, are not meant to be used alone in practice. It is important to acknowledge that multiple theories, such as Astin's Involvement Theory, Chickering's Theory of Identity Development, Kohlberg's Theory of Moral Development, Rendon's Theory of Validation, Schlossberg's Theory of Mattering and Marginality, Schlossberg's Transition Theory, among others, can be cross pollinated in an individual student's situation. Often the intersection of many student development theories is what is most effective in working with postsecondary college or university student environments.\n\n"}
{"id": "34295218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34295218", "title": "Su fei-erh", "text": "Su fei-erh\n\nSu fei-erh was a Muslim Bukharan Emir who was invited into China by the Song dynasty Emperor and given a title of Prince by the Chinese Emperor. He played a critical role in forming the Muslim Hui people in China and giving the Islamic religion its current name in Chinese.\n\nSu fei-erh was his name in Chinese, So-fei-er is another variant of the spelling. It has been guessed that his name in his original language was Sufair.\n\nThe Song Dynasty hired Muslim warriors form Bukhara to fight against Khitan nomads. 5,300 Muslim men from Bukhara were encouraged and invited to move to China in 1070 by the Song emperor Shenzong to help battle the Liao empire in the northeast and repopulate areas ravaged by fighting. The emperor hired these men as mercenaries in his campaign against the Liao empire. Later on these men were settled between the Sung capital of Kaifeng and Yenching (modern day Beijing). The provinces of the north and north-east were settled in 1080 when 10,000 more Muslims were invited into China. They were led by the Amir of Bukhara, Sayyid \"So-fei-er\" in Chinese. He is called the \"Father\" of Chinese Islam. Islam was named by the Tang and Song Chinese as \"Dashi fa\" (\"law of the Arabs\"). He gave Islam the new name of \"Huihui Jiao\" (\"the Religion of the Huihui\").\n\nSu fei-erh is alleged by the Fa-hsiang to be the ancestor of Sayyid Ajjal Shams al-Din Omar (who was descended from the Prophet Muhammad), however, some were skeptical of this claim and think it was a forgery to mask Sayyid Ajjal's arrival to China with the Mongols.\n\n"}
{"id": "4588631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4588631", "title": "Three Whom God Should Not Have Created: Persians, Jews, and Flies", "text": "Three Whom God Should Not Have Created: Persians, Jews, and Flies\n\nThree Whom God Should Not Have Created: Persians, Jews, and Flies (Arabic: , \"\") is an anti-Iranian and antisemitic Iraqi government pamphlet widely published during the era of Saddam Hussein.\n\nThe author, Khairallah Talfah, was an Iraqi Ba'ath Party official, and the maternal uncle and father-in-law of Saddam Hussein. He first wrote the ten-page pamphlet in 1940.\n\nIn 1981, following the start of the Iran–Iraq War, the Iraqi government publishing house \"Dar al-Hurriyya\" (Abode of Liberty) republished it, and the Iraqi Ministry of Education distributed the propaganda as part of a textbook for school-children.\n\nThe work describes Persians as \"animals God created in the shape of humans\", Jews as a \"mixture of dirt and the leftovers of diverse people\", and flies as poor misunderstood creatures \"whom we do not understand God's purpose in creating\". According to Con Coughlin, \"This weak Iraqi attempt at imitating \"Mein Kampf\" nevertheless had a bearing on Saddam's future policymaking. As president of Iraq, Saddam's foreign policy was determined by his hatred of the Persians, or Iranians as they are better known, and the Israelis.\" To put it more soberly, Iraq competed militarily with Pahlavi Iran to its east and Israel to its west, and was perceived by both countries to be an existential threat, until Saddam settled his differences with Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi through the 1975 Algiers Agreement.\n\nSaddam Hussein had the book's title phrase etched into a plaque he kept on his desk.\n\n"}
{"id": "962197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=962197", "title": "Tom Cole", "text": "Tom Cole\n\nThomas Jeffery Cole (born April 28, 1949) is the U.S. Representative for , serving since 2003. He is a member of the Republican Party. He is a Deputy Majority Whip. The chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC) from 2006 to 2008, he was, during his tenure, the fourth-ranking Republican leader in the House. As of 2015, Cole – a member of the Chickasaw Nation – is one of only two registered Native Americans in Congress (the other being fellow Oklahoman Markwayne Mullin).\n\nCole was born in Shreveport, Louisiana, the son of Helen Te Ata (née Gale) and John D. Cole. He is a fifth-generation Oklahoman, having been raised in Moore, Oklahoma. He graduated from Grinnell College in 1971 with a B.A. in history. His postgraduate degrees include an M.A. from Yale University (1974) and a Ph.D. from the University of Oklahoma (1984), both in British history. Cole's Ph.D. thesis was entitled \"Life and Labor in the Isle of Dogs: The Origins and Evolution of an East London Working-Class Community, 1800–1980\". Cole did research abroad as a Thomas J. Watson Fellow and was a Fulbright Fellow (1977–78) at the University of London. He was a college professor in history and politics before becoming a politician.\n\nFollowing his mother Helen, who served as a state representative and senator, Cole served in the Oklahoma Senate from 1988 to 1991, resigning mid-term to become Executive Director of the National Republican Congressional Committee. From 1995 to 1999, he was Oklahoma's Secretary of State under Governor Frank Keating, and assisted with the recovery efforts following the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing. He resigned to become chief of staff to the Republican National Committee. He also served as Chairman of the Oklahoma Republican Party for much of the 1980s.\n\nCole has been heavily involved in national politics as well, having served both as Executive Director of the NRCC and as Chief of Staff of the Republican National Committee (RNC).\n\nCole spent two years working as a paid consultant for the United States Chamber of Commerce, but his primary involvement in politics was as a political consultant for candidates. Along with partners Sharon Hargrave Caldwell and Deby Snodgrass, his firm (Cole, Hargrave, Snodgrass and Associates) played a large part in the reconstruction of Oklahoma's political landscape, and backed a number of candidates that took office during the Republican Revolution of 1994. Among their clients have been Keating, J.C. Watts, Tom Coburn, Frank Lucas, Mary Fallin, Wes Watkins, Steve Largent, former Mississippi congressman Chip Pickering, and Hawaii governor Linda Lingle.\n\nDuring his initial campaign for the House of Representatives in 2002, Cole received the endorsement of Watts, the popular outgoing congressman. This helped him win a hard-fought general election over Democratic nominee and former Oklahoma State Senator Darryl Roberts. Cole subsequently won easy re-election campaigns in 2004, 2006, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2014 and 2016.\n\nFollowing the 2006 election cycle, the members of the House Republican Conference elected Cole to the post of NRCC Chairman, placing him in charge of national efforts to assist Republican candidates for Congress.\n\nHis voting record during his nine years in the House marks Cole as a solid conservative with occasional libertarian sympathies. He has consistently voted anti-abortion and pro-business positions, and established himself as a supporter of free trade, gun rights, the military, veterans, and American Indian issues. He favors loosening immigration restrictions and imposing stricter limits on campaign funds. In 2012, he sponsored H.R. 5912 which would prohibit public funds from being used for political party conventions. This legislation passed the House in September but awaits action by the Senate.\n\nCole has consistently voted against positions supported by lobbies for senior citizens, labor unions, and teachers' unions. However, he was critical in brokering protections for DOD civilian workers.\n\nIn June 2013, after another failure of the United States farm bill in Congress, Cole called the failure of the legislation inexcusable. His district in Oklahoma includes some of the state's farming communities, and if the Farm Bill passed, it would have saved $40 billion over a ten-year period.\n\nAs Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Legislative Branch, Cole was responsible for introducing the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2015 (H.R. 4487; 113th Congress). The bill would appropriate $3.3 billion to the legislative branch for FY 2015, which is approximately the same amount it received in FY 2014. According to Cole, the bill meets its goals \"in both an effective and efficient manner, and has done so in a genuinely bipartisan, inclusive and deliberative fashion.\"\n\nIn 2013, Cole introduced the Home School Equity Act for Tax Relief. The bill would allow some homeschool parents to take tax credits for purchasing classroom materials.\n\nCole expressed his intention in 2018 to push his Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act into the spending bill as an omnibus. The bill would \"make clear that the National Labor Relations Board has no jurisdiction over businesses owned and operated by an Indian tribe and located on tribal land.\"\n\nCole was ranked as the 91st most bipartisan member of the U.S. House of Representatives during the 114th United States Congress (and the most bipartisan member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Oklahoma) in the Bipartisan Index created by The Lugar Center and the McCourt School of Public Policy that ranks members of the United States Congress by their degree of bipartisanship (by measuring the frequency each member's bills attract co-sponsors from the opposite party and each member's co-sponsorship of bills by members of the opposite party).\n\nIn the contest for House Speaker that followed the resignation of John Boehner Cole supported the claims of Paul Ryan:\n\n\"Anyone who attacks Paul Ryan as being insufficiently conservative is either woefully misinformed or maliciously destructive...Paul Ryan has played a major role in advancing the conservative cause and creating the Republican House majority. His critics are not true conservatives. They are radical populists who neither understand nor accept the institutions, procedures and traditions that are the basis of constitutional governance.\"\n\nAs of the 115th United States Congress, Tom Cole is a member of the following U.S. House committees:\n\nCole supported President Donald Trump's 2017 executive order to impose a temporary ban on entry to the U.S. to citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries. He stated that \"It is fair and appropriate to debate the merits of President Trump's executive order and its initial implementation. But it is inappropriate to engage in demagogic, inflammatory, inaccurate and reckless rhetoric that is designed to create and exploit a political issue rather than address a real threat to our security. I fear that is exactly what we are seeing from many of the President's critics.\"\n\n\nCole and his wife, Ellen, have one son, Mason. He is a member of the United Methodist Church and lives in Moore.\n\nCole has said, \"I was raised to think of myself as Native American and, most importantly, as Chickasaw.\"\n\nCole has said that a great-aunt of his was the Native American storyteller Te Ata. Describing his heritage, he said his \"mother Helen Cole was...extraordinarily proud of [their] Native American history and was, frankly, the first Native American woman ever elected to state senate in Oklahoma.\"\n\nCole sits on the Smithsonian Institution Board of Regents and the National Fulbright Association.\n\nCole is featured in the play \"Sliver of a Full Moon\" by Mary Kathryn Nagle for his role in the re-authorization of the Violence Against Women Act in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3839939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3839939", "title": "Vicente Flores", "text": "Vicente Flores\n\nVicente Flores was Apu Mallku of Qullana Suyu Marka (Greater Collasuyu) between 2003 and 2004. He was replaced by Antonio Machaca.\n"}
{"id": "1955804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1955804", "title": "William L. Brooks", "text": "William L. Brooks\n\nWilliam L. \"Buffalo Bill\" Brooks (c. 1832 – July 29, 1874) was a western lawman and later outlaw.\n\nBrooks was born in Ohio around 1832 where he later became a buffalo hunter in the late-1840s or early-1850s whose success equaled fellow buffalo hunter William F. Cody earning the same nickname of \"Buffalo Bill\". During the late 1860s, Brooks had killed several men in various gunfights, and was briefly hired as a stage driver for the Southwestern Stage Co., before becoming the marshal of Newton, Kansas in 1872. Although he was reported to have been around 40 years old, several biographers have claimed Brooks was in his 20s.\n\nWith Brooks success in Newton he was soon offered a position in Dodge City as town marshal where he was later involved in 15 gunfights during his first month. In one case one of the men killed had four brothers who came after Brooks in revenge. As the brothers arrived in town Brooks was said to have killed all four men with four shots each. By the following year Brooks had cleared the city of most major criminals. Brooks however killed several men in questionable circumstances including one incident where he killed a man over an argument with a local dance hall girl. After backing down from gunfighter Kirk Jordan, Brooks left town shortly after.\n\nAccording to legend, Brooks went to Butte, Montana where he attempted to become the city marshal but, in part because of Brook's reputation, was instead passed over in favor of Morgan Earp. Confronting Earp over his defeat, Brooks was shot in the stomach and Morgan was shot in the shoulder.\n\nRecords show however that, shortly after leaving Dodge City, Brooks returned to his old position as a stage driver for the Southwestern Stage Co. in early 1874. Several months later however the company had lost a mail contract to a rival company and Brooks lost his job. In June several mules and horses owned by the rival company had been stolen and Brooks, with two other men, were arrested the next month. It was charged that Brooks had apparently attempted to weaken the rival company and win back the mail contract for the Southwestern Stage Company. Brooks was lynched while awaiting trial on July 29, 1874.\n\n"}
{"id": "3228410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3228410", "title": "Wives aboard Noah's Ark", "text": "Wives aboard Noah's Ark\n\nThe Wives aboard Noah's Ark were part of the family that survived the Deluge in the biblical Genesis flood narrative. Although the Bible only notes the existence of these women, there are extra-Biblical mentions regarding them and their names.\n\nIn , God says to Noah, \"But I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall come into the ark, you, your sons, your wife, and your sons' wives with you\" (ESV).\nThe deuterocanonical Book of Tobit (written \"c.\" 225–175 BC) does not name any of the wives aboard Noah's Ark, but it does say that Noah's wife was one of his \"own kindred\" ().\nIn the Book of Jubilees (160–150 BC) the names of the wives of Noah, Shem, Ham and Japheth are as follows:\n\n\nIt adds that the three sons each built a city named after their wife.\n\n (written in the late 1st century AD) states that there were eight people on the Ark.\n\nAccording to the Sibylline Oracles, the wives of Shem, Ham and Japheth enjoyed fantastically long lifespans, living for centuries, while speaking prophecy to each generation they saw come and go. According to the preface of the \"Oracles\", the Sibyl author was a daughter-in-law of Noah: the \"Babylonian Sibyl\", Sambethe — who, 900 years after the Deluge, allegedly moved to Greece and began writing the Oracles. The writings attributed to her (at the end of Book III) also hint at possible names of her family who would have lived before the Flood — father Gnostos, mother Circe; elsewhere (in book V) she calls Isis her sister. Other early sources similarly name one of the Sibyls as Sabba (see Sibyl in Jewish Encyclopedia).\n\nThe early Christian writer St. Hippolytus (d. 235 AD) recounted a tradition of their names according to the Syriac \"Targum\" that is similar to \"Jubilees\", although apparently switching the names of Shem's and Ham's wives. He wrote: \"The names of the wives of the sons of Noah are these: the name of the wife of Sem, Nahalath Mahnuk; and the name of the wife of Cham, Zedkat Nabu; and the name of the wife of Japheth, Arathka\". He also recounts a quaint legend concerning the wife of Ham: God having instructed Noah to destroy the first person who announced that the deluge was beginning, Ham's wife at that moment was baking bread, when water suddenly rushed forth from the oven, destroying the bread. When she exclaimed then that the deluge was commencing, God suddenly cancels his former command lest Noah destroy his own daughter-in-law who was to be saved.\n\nAn early Arabic work known as \"Kitab al-Magall\" or the \"Book of Rolls\" (part of Clementine literature), the Syriac Book of the \"Cave of Treasures\" (c. 350), and Patriarch Eutychius of Alexandria (c. 930) all agree in naming Noah's wife as \"Haykêl, the daughter of Namûs (or Namousa), the daughter of Enoch, the brother of Methuselah\"; the first of these sources elsewhere calls Haikal \"the daughter of Mashamos, son of Enoch\", while stating that Shem's wife is called \"Leah, daughter of Nasih\".\n\nFurthermore, the \"Panarion\" of Epiphanius (c. 375) names Noah's wife as Barthenos, while the c. 5th-century Ge'ez work \"Conflict of Adam and Eve with Satan\" calls Noah's wife \"Haikal, the daughter of Abaraz, of the daughters of the sons of Enos\" — whom some authors have connected with Epiphanius' \"Barthenos\" (i.e., \"Bath-Enos\", daughter of Enos). However, \"Jubilees\" makes \"Betenos\" the name of Noah's mother. The word \"haykal\" is Syriac for \"temple\" or \"church\"; in the Georgian copy of \"Cave of Treasures\", we find instead the name T'ajar, which is the Georgian word for the same.\n\nArmenian tradition give the name of Noah's wife as Nemzar, Noyemzar or Noyanzar.\n\nPatriarch Eutychius of Alexandria, writing in Arabic, also states that Shem's wife was Salit, Ham's Nahlat and Japheth's Arisisah, all daughters of Methuselah. The theologian John Gill (1697–1771) wrote in his \"Exposition of the Bible\" of this tradition \"that the name of Shem's wife was Zalbeth, or, as other copies, Zalith or Salit; that the name of Ham's Nahalath; and of Japheth's Aresisia.\"\n\nA manuscript of the 8th-century Latin work \"Inventiones Nominum\", copies of which have been found at the Abbey of St. Gall in Switzerland, and in a library at Albi, SW France, lists as Noah's wife Set, as Shem's wife Nora, as Ham's wife Sare, and as Japeth's wife Serac.\n\nThe \"Genesis Rabba\" midrash lists Naamah, the daughter of Lamech and sister of Tubal-Cain, as the wife of Noah, as does the 11th-century Jewish commentator Rashi in his commentary on Genesis 4:22.\n\nIn the medieval midrash , the name of Noah's wife is said to be Naamah, daughter of Enoch.\n\nThe Persian historian Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari (c. 915) recounts that Japheth's wife was Arbasisah, daughter of Marazil, son of al-Darmasil, son of Mehujael, son of Enoch, son of Cain; that Ham's wife was Naḥlab, daughter of Marib, another son of al-Darmasil; and that Shem's wife was Ṣalib, daughter of Batawil, another son of Mehujael. He says Noah's wife was Amzurah, daughter of Barakil, another son of Mehujael.\n\nIrish folklore is rich in traditions and legends regarding the three sons and their wives. Here the wives are usually named Olla, Olliva, and Ollivani (or variations thereof), names possibly derived from the Anglo-Saxon \"Codex Junius\" (c. 700 AD), a Bible paraphrase written in the fashion of Germanic sagas, and often attributed to the poet Cædmon. The wife of Noah is given as Percoba in \"Codex Junius\".\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon \"Solomon and Saturn\" dialogue gives for Noah's wife Dalila, for Ham's, Jaitarecta, and for Japheth's Catafluvia, while giving \"Olla\", Ollina and Ollibana as alternatives. The name of Shem's wife is missing. Some versions of the Gaelic \"Lebor Gabala\" also name Shem's, Ham's and Japheth's wives as Cata Rechta, Cata Flauia and Cata Chasta respectively. Similar traditions seem to have endured for several centuries in some form, for in Petrus Comestor, we read that the wives of Noah, Shem, Ham and Japheth are Phuarpara, Pharphia, Cataflua and Fliva respectively, and in a 15th-century Middle English catechism, we find written \"\"What hicht Noes wyf?\" \"Dalida; and the wif of Sem, Cateslinna; and the wif of Cam, Laterecta; and the wif of Japheth, Aurca. And other 3 names, Ollia, Olina, and Olybana.\"\n\nÆlfric of Eynsham's Anglo-Saxon translation of the \"Heptateuch\" (c. 1000) included illustrations with the wives' names recorded in the captions. One such illustration (fol. 17) names Noah's wife as Phiapphara, Shem's as Parsia, Ham's as Cataphua, and Japheth's as Fura. Another (fol. 14) includes one wife, presumably Noah's, named Sphiarphara. A Middle English illustrated version of \"Genesis\" dating to the 13th century also gives Puarphara as Noah's wife.\n\nMandaean literature, of uncertain antiquity, refers to Noah's wife by the name Nuraita (or \"Nhuraitha, Anhuraita\", various other spellings).\n\nGnostic literature of the first few centuries AD calls Noah's wife Norea, including texts ascribed to her, as reported by Epiphanius, and confirmed in modern times with the discovery of these texts at Nag Hammadi.\n\nHungarian folklore has several tales about Japheth and his wife called Eneh, attributing this information to the \"Chronicles of Sigilbert, Bishop of Antioch\" in the 14th-century \"Képes Krónika\".\n\nAccording to the 15th-century monk Annio da Viterbo, the Hellenistic Babylonian writer Berossus had stated that the sons' wives were Pandora, Noela, and Noegla, and that Noah's wife was Tytea. However, Annio's manuscript is widely regarded today as having been a forgery.\n\nNonetheless, later writers made use of this \"information\", sometimes even combining it with other traditions. The Portuguese friar Gaspar Rodriguez de S. Bernardino wrote in \"Itinerario da India por terra ate a ilha de Chypre\" in 1842 that the wives of Noah, Shem, Ham and Japheth were named Tytea or Phuarphara, Pandora or Parphia, Noela or Cataflua, and Noegla, Eliua or Arca. In Robert Southey's \"Common-place Book\" from around the same time, similar names are given, with the information attributed to the \"Comte de Mora Toledo\": Titea Magna; Pandora; Noala or Cataflua; and Noegla, Funda or Afia, respectively.\n\nA kabalistic work that appeared in 1670, known as \"Comte de Gabalis\", considered sacred in Rosicrucianism, maintains that the name of Noah's wife was Vesta.\n\nThis name for Noah's wife had earlier been found in Pedro Sarmiento de Gamboa's \"History of the Incas\" (c. 1550), where the names Prusia or Persia, Cataflua and Funda are also given for Shem, Ham, and Japheth's wives respectively.\n\nThe \"Holy Tablets\", first appearing in 1996 as the sacred text of the Nuwaubian Nation (which has fewer than 500 adherents) names Noah's wives as Naama, Waala, and Mubiyna, of whom only Naama survives the flood in the Ark. The corresponding wives of Shem, Ham and Japheth are named as Faatin, Haliyma and Ifat, respectively.\n\n"}
