{"id": "13283221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13283221", "title": "Agrarian Party (Yugoslavia)", "text": "Agrarian Party (Yugoslavia)\n\nThe Agrarian Party (originally \"Alliance of Agrarians\") was a political party within the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes and later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. It was formed in 1919.\n\nThe party originally operated on the whole territory of the state, but in areas with a Croatian majority, the party merged into the Croatian Peasant Party. A splinter party later emerged called the National Peasant Party of Dragoljub Jovanović. \n\nThe party was later banned by the Communist Yugoslav authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18951602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18951602", "title": "Anschluss", "text": "Anschluss\n\nAnschluss ( \"joining\") refers to the annexation of Austria into Nazi Germany on 12 March 1938. The word's German spelling, until the German orthography reform of 1996, was Anschluß and it was also known as the Anschluss Österreichs (, ).\n\nPrior to the \"Anschluss\", there had been strong support from people of all backgrounds – not just Nazis – in both Austria and Germany for a union of the two countries. The desire for a union formed an integral part of the Nazi \"Heim ins Reich\" movement to bring ethnic Germans outside Nazi Germany into Greater Germany. Earlier, Nazi Germany had provided support for the Austrian National Socialist Party (Austrian Nazi Party) in its bid to seize power from Austria's Fatherland Front government.\n\nThe idea of an \"Anschluss\" (a united Austria and Germany that would form a \"Greater Germany\") began after the unification of Germany excluded Austria and the German Austrians from the Prussian-dominated German Empire in 1871. Following the end of World War I with the fall of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, in 1918, the newly formed Republic of German-Austria attempted to form a union with Germany, but the Treaty of Saint Germain (10 September 1919) and the Treaty of Versailles (28 June 1919) forbade both the union and the continued use of the name \"German-Austria\" (\"Deutschösterreich\"); and stripped Austria of some of its territories, such as the Sudetenland.\n\nThe idea of grouping all Germans into a nation-state country had been the subject of debate in the 19th century from the ending of the Holy Roman Empire in 1806 until the ending of the German Confederation in 1866. Austria had wanted a \"Großdeutsche Lösung\" (greater Germany solution), whereby the German states would unite under the leadership of the German Austrians (Habsburgs). This solution would have included all the German states (including the non-German regions of Austria), but Prussia would have had to take second place. This controversy, called dualism, dominated Prusso-Austrian diplomacy and the politics of the German states in the mid-nineteenth century.\n\nIn 1866 the feud finally came to an end during the German war in which the Prussians successfully defeated the Austrians and thereby excluded Austria and the German Austrians from Germany. The Prussian statesman Otto von Bismarck formed the North German Confederation, which included the remaining German states and further expanded the power of Prussia. Bismarck used the Franco-Prussian war (1870-1871) as a way to convince other German states, including the Kingdom of Bavaria, to side with Prussia against the Second French Empire. Due to Prussia's quick victory, the debate was settled and in 1871 the \"Kleindeutsch\" German Empire based on the leadership of Bismarck and the Kingdom of Prussia formed - this excluded Austria.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, the \"Ausgleich\", provided for a dual sovereignty, the Austrian Empire and the Kingdom of Hungary, under Franz Joseph I. The Austrian-Hungarian rule of this diverse empire included various different ethnic groups including Hungarians, Slavic ethnic groups such as Croats, Czechs, Poles, Rusyns, Serbs, Slovaks, Slovenes, and Ukrainians, as well as Italians and Romanians ruled by a German minority. The empire caused tensions between the various ethnic groups. Many Austrian pan-Germans showed loyalty to Bismarck and only to Germany, wore symbols that were temporarily banned in Austrian schools and advocated the dissolution of the empire to allow an annexation of Austria to Germany. Although many Austrians agreed with pan-Germanism ideas, a lot of them still showed allegiance to the Habsburg Monarchy and wished for Austria to remain an independent country. After the Nazis gained power in Germany in 1933, they used propaganda to try to coerce Austrians into advocating for an \"Anschluss\" to the German Reich by using slogans such as \"Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Führer\" (\"One People, One Empire, One Leader\").\n\nBy the end of World War I, Austria had been excluded from internal German affairs for more than fifty years since the Peace of Prague that concluded the Austro-Prussian War of 1866.\n\nElite and popular opinion in Austria after 1918 largely favored some sort of union with Germany, but it was explicitly forbidden by the peace treaties. The Austro-Hungarian Empire broke up in 1918, and on 12 November that year German Austria was declared a republic. The provisional national assembly drafted a provisional constitution that stated that \"German Austria is a democratic republic\" (Article 1) and \"German Austria is a component of the German Republic\" (Article 2). Later plebiscites in the German border provinces of Tyrol and Salzburg yielded majorities of 98% and 99% in favor of a unification with the German (i.e. Weimar) Republic.\n\nIn the aftermath of a prohibition of an \"Anschluss\", the Germans in both Austria and Germany pointed out to a contradiction in the national self-determination principle because it failed to grant it to the ethnic Germans (such as German Austrians and Sudeten Germans) outside of the German Reich.\n\nThe Treaty of Versailles and the Treaty of Saint-Germain (both signed in 1919) explicitly prohibited the political inclusion of Austria in the German state. This measure was criticized by Hugo Preuss, the drafter of the German Weimar Constitution, who saw the prohibition as a contradiction of the Wilsonian principle of self-determination of peoples, intended to help bring peace to Europe. Following the destruction of World War I, however, France and Britain feared the power of a larger Germany and had begun to disempower the current one. Austrian particularism, especially among the nobility, also played a role in the decisions; Austria was Roman Catholic, while Germany was dominated by Protestants, especially in government (the Prussian nobility, for example, was Lutheran). The constitutions of the Weimar Republic and the First Austrian Republic included the political goal of unification, which was widely supported by democratic parties. In the early 1930s, popular support in Austria for union with Germany remained overwhelming, and the Austrian government looked to a possible customs union with the German Republic in 1931.\n\nWhen the Nazis, led by Adolf Hitler, rose to power in the Weimar Republic, the Austrian government withdrew from economic ties. Austria shared the economic turbulence of the Great Depression, with a high unemployment rate, and unstable commerce and industry. During the 1920s it was a target for German investment capital. By 1937, rapid German rearmament increased Berlin's interest in annexing Austria, rich in raw materials and labour. It supplied Germany with magnesium and the products of the iron, textile and machine industries. It had gold and foreign currency reserves, many unemployed skilled workers, hundreds of idle factories, and large potential hydroelectric resources.\n\nHitler, an Austrian German by birth, picked up his German nationalist ideas at a young age. Whilst infiltrating the German Workers' Party (DAP), Hitler became involved in a heated political argument with a visitor, a Professor Baumann, who proposed that Bavaria should break away from Prussia and found a new South German nation with Austria. In vehemently attacking the man's arguments he made an impression on the other party members with his oratory skills and, according to Hitler, the \"professor\" left the hall acknowledging unequivocal defeat. Impressed with Hitler, Anton Drexler invited him to join the DAP. Hitler accepted on September 12, 1919, becoming the party's 55th member. After becoming leader of the DAP, Hitler addressed a crowd on February 24, 1920, and in an effort to appeal to wider parts of the German population, the DAP was renamed the National Socialist German Workers' Party (NSDAP).\n\nThe 1920 National Socialist Program stated as its first point, \"We demand the unification of all Germans in the Greater Germany on the basis of the people's right to self-determination.\" Hitler argued in a 1921 essay that the German Reich had had a single task of, \"incorporating the ten million German-Austrians in the Empire and dethroning the Hapsburgs, the most miserable dynasty ever ruling.\" The Nazis aimed to re-unite all Germans either born or living outside of the \"Reich\" to create an \"all-German \"Reich\"\". Hitler wrote in \"Mein Kampf\" (1925) that he would create a union between his birth country Austria and Germany by any means possible.\n\nThe First Austrian Republic, dominated from the late 1920s by the anti-\"Anschluss\" Catholic nationalist Christian Social Party (CS), gradually disintegrated from 1933 (dissolution of parliament and ban on the Austrian National Socialists) to 1934 (Austrian Civil War in February and ban on all remaining parties except the CS). The government evolved into a corporatist, one-party government that combined the CS and the paramilitary \"Heimwehr\". It controlled labor relations and the press. (\"See Austrofascism and Patriotic Front\").\n\nPower was centralized in the office of the chancellor, who was empowered to rule by decree. The dominance of the Christian Social Party (whose economic policies were based on the papal encyclical \"Rerum novarum\") was an Austrian phenomenon. Austria's national identity had strong Catholic elements that were incorporated into the movement, by way of clerical authoritarian tendencies not found in Nazism. Engelbert Dollfuss and his successor, Kurt Schuschnigg, turned to Benito Mussolini's Italy for inspiration and support. The statist corporatism often referred to as Austrofascism bore more resemblance to Italian Fascism than to German National Socialism, and can be described as a form of clerical fascism.\n\nMussolini supported the independence of Austria, largely due to his concern that Hitler would eventually press for the return of Italian territories once ruled by Austria. However, Mussolini needed German support in Ethiopia (\"see Second Italo-Abyssinian War\"). After receiving a personal assurance from Hitler that Germany would not seek territorial concessions from Italy, Mussolini began a client relationship with Berlin that began with the 1937 Berlin–Rome Axis.\n\nThe Austrian Nazi Party failed to win any seats in the November 1930 general election, but its popularity grew in Austria after Austrian-born Hitler came to power in Germany. The idea of the country joining Germany also grew in popularity, and \"Anschluss\" might have occurred by democratic process had Austrian Nazis not begun a terrorism campaign. John Gunther wrote in 1936, \"In 1932 Austria was probably eighty percent pro-\"Anschluss\"\".\n\nWhen Germany permitted residents of Austria to vote on March 5, 1933, three special trains, boats and trucks brought such masses to Passau that the SS staged a ceremonial welcome. Gunther wrote that by the end of 1933 Austrian public opinion about German annexation was at least 60% against. On 25 July 1934, Dollfuss was assassinated by Austrian Nazis in a failed coup. Afterwards, leading Austrian Nazis fled to Germany but they continued to push for unification from there. The remaining Austrian Nazis continued terrorist attacks against Austrian governmental institutions, causing a death toll of more than 800 between 1934 and 1938.\n\nDollfuss' successor was Kurt Schuschnigg, who followed a political course similar to his predecessor. In 1935 Schuschnigg used the police to suppress Nazi supporters. Police actions under Schuschnigg included gathering Nazis (and Social Democrats) and holding them in internment camps. The Austrofascism of Austria between 1934–1938 focused on the history of Austria and opposed the absorption of Austria into Nazi Germany (according to the philosophy Austrians were \"better Germans\"). Schuschnigg called Austria the \"better German state\" but struggled to keep Austria independent.\n\nIn an attempt to put Schuschnigg's mind at rest, Hitler delivered a speech at the Reichstag and said: \"Germany neither intends nor wishes to interfere in the internal affairs of Austria, to annex Austria or to conclude an Anschluss.\"\n\nBy 1936 the damage to Austria from the German boycott was too great. That summer Schuschnigg told Mussolini that his country had to come to an agreement with Germany. On 11 July 1936 he signed an agreement with German ambassador Franz von Papen, in which Schuschnigg agreed to the release of Nazis imprisoned in Austria and Germany promised to respect Austrian sovereignty. Under the terms of the Austro-German treaty, Austria declared itself a \"German state\" that would always follow Germany's lead in foreign policy, and members of the \"National Opposition\" were allowed to enter the cabinet, in exchange for which the Austrian Nazis promised to cease their terrorist attacks against the government. This did not satisfy Hitler and the pro-German Austrian Nazis grew in strength.\n\nIn September 1936, Hitler launched the Four-Year Plan that called for a dramatic increase in military spending and to make Germany as autarkic as possible with the aim of having the \"Reich\" ready to fight a world war by 1940. The Four Year Plan required huge investments in the \"Reichswerke\" steel works, a programme for developing synthetic oil that soon went wildly over budget, and programmes for producing more chemicals and aluminium; the plan called for a policy of substituting imports and rationalizing industry to achieve its goals that failed completely. As the Four Year Plan fell further and further behind its targets, Hermann Göring, the chief of the Four Year Plan office, began to press for an \"Anschluss\" as a way of securing Austria's iron and other raw materials as a solution to the problems with the Four Year Plan. The British historian Sir Ian Kershaw wrote: ...above all, it was Hermann Göring, at this time close to the pinnacle of his power, who far more than Hitler, throughout 1937 made the running and pushed the hardest for an early and radical solution to the 'Austrian Question'. Göring was not simply operating as Hitler's agent in matters relating to the 'Austrian Question'. His approach differed in emphasis in significant respects...But Göring's broad notions of foreign policy, which he pushed to a great extent on his own initiative in the mid-1930s drew more on traditional pan-German concepts of nationalist power-politics to attain hegemony in Europe than on the racial dogmatism central to Hitler's ideology. Göring was far more interested in the return of the former German colonies in Africa than was Hitler, believed up to 1939 in the possibility of an Anglo-German alliance (an idea that Hitler had abandoned by late 1937), and wanted all Eastern Europe in the German economic sphere of influence. Göring did not share Hitler's interest in \"Lebensraum\" (\"living space\") as for him, merely having Eastern Europe in the German economic sphere of influence was sufficient. In this context, having Austria annexed to Germany was the key towards bringing Eastern Europe into Göring's desired \"Grossraumwirtschaft\" (\"greater economic space\").\n\nFaced with problems in the Four Year Plan, Göring had become the loudest voice in Germany, calling for an \"Anschluss\", even at the risk of losing an alliance with Italy. In April 1937, in a secret speech before a group of German industrialists, Göring stated that the only solution to the problems with meeting the steel production targets laid out by the Four Year Plan was to annex Austria, which Göring noted was rich in iron. Göring did not give a date for the \"Anschluss\", but given that Four Year Plan's targets all had to be met by September 1940, and the current problems with meeting the steel production targets, suggested that he wanted an \"Anschluss\" in the very near-future.\n\nHitler told Goebbels in the late summer of 1937 that eventually Austria would have to be taken \"by force\". On 5 November 1937, Hitler called a meeting with the Foreign Minister Konstantin von Neurath, the War Minister Field Marshal Werner von Blomberg, the Army commander General Werner von Fritsch, the Kriegsmarine commander Admiral Erich Raeder and the Luftwaffe commander Herman Göring recorded in the Hossbach Memorandum. At the conference, Hitler stated that economic problems were causing Germany to fall behind in the arms race with Britain and France, and that the only solution was to launch in the near-future a series of wars to seize Austria and Czechoslovakia, whose economies would be plundered to give Germany the lead in the arms race. In early 1938, Hitler was seriously considering replacing Papen as ambassador to Austria with either Colonel Hermann Kriebel, the German consul in Shanghai or Albert Forster, the \"Gauleiter\" of Danzig. Significantly, neither Kriebel nor Forster were professional diplomats with Kriebel being one of the leaders of 1923 Munich Beerhall \"putsch\" who had been appointed consul in Shanghai to facilitate his work as an arms dealer in China while Forster was a \"Gauleiter\" who had proven he could get along with the Poles in his position in the Free City of Danzig; both men were Nazis who had shown some diplomatic skill. On 25 January 1938, the Austrian police raided the Vienna headquarters of the Austrian Nazi Party, arresting \"Gauleiter\" Leopold Tavs, the deputy to Captain Josef Leopold, discovered a cache of arms and plans for a \"putsch\".\n\nFollowing increasing violence and demands from Hitler that Austria agree to a union, Schuschnigg met Hitler at Berchtesgaden on February 12, 1938, in an attempt to avoid the takeover of Austria. Hitler presented Schuschnigg with a set of demands that included appointing Nazi sympathizers to positions of power in the government. The key appointment was that of Arthur Seyss-Inquart as Minister of Public Security, with full, unlimited control of the police. In return Hitler would publicly reaffirm the treaty of 11 July 1936 and reaffirm his support for Austria's national sovereignty. Browbeaten and threatened by Hitler, Schuschnigg agreed to these demands and put them into effect.\n\nSeyss-Inquart was a long-time supporter of the Nazis who sought the union of all Germans in one state. Leopold argues he was a moderate who favoured an evolutionary approach to union. He opposed the violent tactics of the Austrian Nazis, cooperated with Catholic groups, and wanted to preserve a measure of Austrian identity within Nazi Germany.\n\nOn 20 February, Hitler made a speech before the Reichstag which was broadcast live and which for the first time was relayed also by the Austrian radio network. A key phrase in the speech which was aimed at the Germans living in Austria and Czechoslovakia was: \"… The German Reich is no longer willing to tolerate the suppression of ten million Germans across its borders.\"\n\nOn 9 March 1938, In the face of rioting by the small, but virulent, Austrian Nazi Party and ever-expanding German demands on Austria, Chancellor Kurt Schuschnigg called a referendum (plebiscite) on the issue, to be held on 13 March. Infuriated, on 11 March, Adolf Hitler threatened invasion of Austria, and demanded Chancellor von Schuschnigg's resignation and the appointment of the Nazi Arthur Seyss-Inquart as his replacement. Hitler's plan was for Seyss-Inquart to call immediately for German troops to rush to Austria's aid, restoring order and giving the invasion an air of legitimacy. In the face of this threat, Schuschnigg informed Seyss-Inquart that the plebiscite would be cancelled.\n\nOn 9 March 1938, in an effort to preserve Austria's independence, Schuschnigg scheduled a plebiscite on the issue of unification for 13 March. To secure a large majority in the referendum, Schuschnigg dismantled the one-party state. He agreed to legalize the Social Democrats and their trade unions in return for their support in the referendum. He also set the minimum voting age at 24 to exclude younger voters because the Nazi movement was most popular among the young. In contrast, Hitler had lowered the voting age for German elections held under Nazi rule, largely to compensate for the removal of Jews and other ethnic minorities from the German electorate following enactment of the Nuremberg Laws in 1935.\n\nThe plan went awry when it became apparent that Hitler would not stand by while Austria declared its independence by public vote. Hitler declared that the referendum would be subject to major fraud and that Germany would never accept it. In addition, the German ministry of propaganda issued press reports that riots had broken out in Austria and that large parts of the Austrian population were calling for German troops to restore order. Schuschnigg immediately responded that reports of riots were false.\n\nHitler sent an ultimatum to Schuschnigg on 11 March, demanding that he hand over all power to the Austrian Nazis or face an invasion. The ultimatum was set to expire at noon, but was extended by two hours. Without waiting for an answer, Hitler had already signed the order to send troops into Austria at one o'clock. \nNevertheless, the German Führer underestimated his opposition.\n\nAs Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Edgar Ansel Mowrer, reporting from Paris for CBS, observed: \"There is no one in all France who does not believe that Hitler invaded Austria not to hold a genuine plebiscite, but to prevent the plebiscite planned by Schusschnigg from demonstrating to the entire world just how little hold National Socialism really had on that tiny country.\" Clearly it was Hitler, and not Schuschnigg, who was terrified by the potential results of the scheduled plebiscite, and that was the best indication of where Austrians' loyalty lay.\n\nSchuschnigg desperately sought support for Austrian independence in the hours following the ultimatum. Realizing that neither France nor Britain was willing to offer assistance, Schuschnigg resigned on the evening of 11 March, but President Wilhelm Miklas refused to appoint Seyss-Inquart as Chancellor. At 8:45 pm, Hitler, tired of waiting, ordered the invasion to commence at dawn on 12 March regardless. Around 10 pm, a forged telegram was sent in Seyss-Inquart's name asking for German troops, since he was not yet Chancellor and was unable to do so himself. Seyss-Inquart was not installed as Chancellor until after midnight, when Miklas resigned himself to the inevitable. In the radio broadcast in which he announced his resignation, he argued that he accepted the changes and allowed the Nazis to take over the government 'to avoid the shedding of fraternal blood [\"Bruderblut\"]'. Seyss-Inquart was appointed chancellor after midnight on 12 March.\n\nIt is said that after listening to Bruckner's Seventh Symphony, Hitler cried: \"How can anyone say that Austria is not German! Is there anything more German than our old pure Austrianness?\"\n\nOn the morning of 12 March, the 8th Army of the German \"Wehrmacht\" crossed the border into Austria. The troops were greeted by cheering Austrians with Nazi salutes, Nazi flags, and flowers. For the \"Wehrmacht\", the invasion was the first big test of its machinery. Although the invading forces were badly organized and coordination among the units was poor, it mattered little because the Austrian government had ordered the Austrian Bundesheer not to resist.\n\nThat afternoon, Hitler, riding in a car, crossed the border at his birthplace, Braunau am Inn, with a 4,000 man bodyguard. In the evening, he arrived at Linz and was given an enthusiastic welcome. The enthusiasm displayed toward Hitler and the Germans surprised both Nazis and non-Nazis, as most people had believed that a majority of Austrians opposed \"Anschluss\". Many Germans from both Austria and Germany welcomed the \"Anschluss\" as they saw it as completing the complex and long overdue German unification of all Germans united into one-state. Hitler had originally intended to leave Austria as a puppet state with Seyss-Inquart as head of a pro-Nazi government. However, the overwhelming reception caused him to change course and absorb Austria into the Reich. On 13 March Seyss-Inquart announced the revocation of Article 88 of the Treaty of Saint-Germain, which prohibited the unification of Austria and Germany, and approved the replacement of the Austrian states with \"Reichsgaue\". The seizure of Austria demonstrated once again Hitler's aggressive territorial ambitions, and, once again, the failure of the British and the French to take action against him for violating the Versailles Treaty. Their lack of will emboldened him toward further aggression.\n\nHitler's journey through Austria became a triumphal tour that climaxed in Vienna on 15 March 1938, when around 200,000 cheering German Austrians gathered around the \"Heldenplatz\" (Square of Heroes) to hear Hitler say that \"The oldest eastern province of the German people shall be, from this point on, the newest bastion of the German Reich\" followed by his \"greatest accomplishment\" (completing the annexing of Austria to form a Greater German Reich) by saying \"As leader and chancellor of the German nation and Reich I announce to German history now the entry of my homeland into the German Reich.\" Hitler later commented: \"Certain foreign newspapers have said that we fell on Austria with brutal methods. I can only say: even in death they cannot stop lying. I have in the course of my political struggle won much love from my people, but when I crossed the former frontier (into Austria) there met me such a stream of love as I have never experienced. Not as tyrants have we come, but as liberators.\"\n\nHitler said as a personal note to the \"Anschluss\": \"I, myself, as Führer and Chancellor, will be happy to walk on the soil of the country that is my home as a free German citizen.\"\n\nHitler's popularity reached an unprecedented peak after he fulfilled the \"Anschluss\" because he had completed the long-awaited idea of a Greater Germany. Bismarck had not chosen to include Austria in his 1871 reunification of Germany, and there was genuine support from Germans in both Austria and Germany for an \"Anschluss\".\n\nHitler's forces suppressed all opposition. Before the first German soldier crossed the border, Heinrich Himmler and a few SS officers landed in Vienna to arrest prominent representatives of the First Republic, such as Richard Schmitz, Leopold Figl, Friedrich Hillegeist, and Franz Olah. During the few weeks between the \"Anschluss\" and the plebiscite, authorities rounded up Social Democrats, Communists, other potential political dissenters, and Austrian Jews, and imprisoned them or sent them to concentration camps. Within a few days of 12 March, 70,000 people had been arrested. The disused northwest railway station in Vienna was converted into a makeshift concentration camp. The plebiscite was subject to large-scale propaganda and to the abrogation of the voting rights of around 400,000 people (nearly 10% of the eligible voting population), mainly former members of left-wing parties and Jews.\n\nThe newly installed Nazis, within two days, transferred power to Germany, and \"Wehrmacht\" troops entered Austria to enforce the \"Anschluss\". The Nazis held a controlled plebiscite (\"Volksabstimmung\") in the whole Reich within the following month, asking the people to ratify the \"fait accompli\", and claimed that 99.7561% of the votes cast in Austria were in favor. Austrian citizens of Jewish or Gypsy origin were not allowed to vote.\n\nAlthough the Allies were committed to upholding the terms of the Treaty of Versailles and those of St. Germain, which specifically prohibited the union of Austria and Germany, their reaction was only verbal and moderate. No military confrontation took place, and even the strongest voices against the annexation, particularly Fascist Italy, France, and Britain (the \"Stresa Front\") remained at peace. The loudest verbal protest was voiced by the government of Mexico.\n\nThe campaign against the Jews began immediately after the \"Anschluss\". They were driven through the streets of Vienna, their homes and shops were plundered. Jewish men and women were forced to wash away pro-independence slogans painted on the streets of Vienna ahead of the failed 13 March plebiscite. Jewish actresses from the Theater in der Josefstadt were forced to clean toilets by the SA. The process of Aryanisation began, and Jews were driven out of public life within months. These events reached a climax in the Kristallnacht pogrom of 9–10 November 1938. All synagogues and prayer houses in Vienna were destroyed. The Stadttempel was the sole survivor due to its location in a residential district which prevented it from being burned down. Most Jewish shops were plundered and closed. Over 6,000 Jews were arrested overnight, the majority deported to Dachau concentration camp in the following days. The Nuremberg Laws applied in Austria from May 1938, later reinforced with innumerable anti-Semitic decrees. Jews were gradually robbed of their freedoms, blocked from almost all professions, shut out of schools and universities, and forced to wear the Yellow badge from September 1941.\n\nThe Nazis dissolved Jewish organisations and institutions, hoping to force Jews to emigrate. Their plans succeeded—by the end of 1941, 130,000 Jews had left Vienna, 30,000 of whom went to the United States. They left behind all of their property, but were forced to pay the Reich Flight Tax, a tax on all émigrés from Nazi Germany; some received financial support from international aid organisations so that they could pay this tax. The majority of the Jews who had stayed in Vienna eventually became victims of the Holocaust. Of the more than 65,000 Viennese Jews who were deported to concentration camps, little more than 2,000 survived.\n\nThe \"Anschluss\" was given immediate effect by legislative act on 13 March, subject to ratification by a plebiscite. Austria became the province of Ostmark, and Seyss-Inquart was appointed governor. The plebiscite was held on 10 April and officially recorded a support of 99.7% of the voters.\n\nWhile historians concur that the votes were accurately counted, the process was neither free nor secret. Officials were present directly beside the voting booths and received the voting ballot by hand (in contrast to a secret vote where the voting ballot is inserted into a closed box). In some remote areas of Austria, people voted to preserve the independence of Austria on 13 March (in Schuschnigg's planned but cancelled plebiscite) despite the \"Wehrmacht\"s presence. For instance, in the village of Innervillgraten, a majority of 95% voted for Austria's independence. However, in the plebiscite on 10 April, 73.3% of votes in Innervillgraten were in favor of the \"Anschluss\", which was still the lowest number of all Austrian municipalities. Although there is no doubt that the plebiscite result was manipulated and rigged, there was unquestionably a lot of genuine support for Hitler for carrying out the \"Anschluss\".\n\nAustria remained part of Germany until the end of World War II. A provisional Austrian government declared the \"Anschluss\" \"null und nichtig\" (null and void) on 27 April 1945. Henceforth, Austria was recognized as a separate country, although it remained divided into occupation zones and controlled by the Allied Commission until 1955, when the Austrian State Treaty restored its sovereignty.\n\nGermany, which had a shortage of steel and a weak balance of payments, gained iron ore mines in the Erzberg and 748 million RM in the reserves of Austria's central bank Oesterreichische Nationalbank, more than twice its own cash. In the years that followed, some bank accounts were transferred from Austria to Germany as \"enemy property accounts\".\n\nAustria in the first days of Nazi Germany's control had many contradictions: at one and the same time, Hitler's regime began to tighten its grip in every aspect of society, beginning with mass arrests as thousands of Austrians tried to escape; yet other Austrians cheered and welcomed the German troops entering their territory.\n\nIn March 1938 the local Gauleiter of Gmunden, Upper Austria, gave a speech to the local Austrians and told them in plain terms that all \"traitors\" of Austria were to be thrown into the newly opened concentration camp at Mauthausen-Gusen. The camp became notorious for its cruelty and barbarism. During its existence an estimated 200,000 people died, half of whom were killed.\n\nThe antigypsyism sentiment was implemented initially most harshly in Austria when between 1938-1939 the Nazis arrested around 2,000 Gypsy men whom were sent to Dachau and 1,000 Gypsy women whom were sent to Ravensbrück. Starting in 1939, Austrian Gypsies had to register themselves to local authorities. The Nazis began to publish articles linking the Gypsies with criminality. Until 1942, the Nazis had made a distinction between \"pure Gypsies\" and \"Gypsy \"Mischlinges\". However, Nazi racial research claimed that 90% of Gypsies were of mixed ancestry. Subsequently, the Nazis ordered that the Gypsies were to be treated on the same level as the Jews.\n\nMany Austrian political figures announced their support of the \"Anschluss\" and their relief that it happened without violence. Cardinal Theodor Innitzer (a political figure of the CS) declared as early as 12 March: \"The Viennese Catholics should thank the Lord for the bloodless way this great political change has occurred, and they should pray for a great future for Austria. Needless to say, everyone should obey the orders of the new institutions.\" The other Austrian bishops followed suit some days later. Vatican Radio, however, broadcast a strong denunciation of the German action, and Cardinal Pacelli, the Vatican Secretary of State, ordered Innitzer to report to Rome. Before meeting the Pope, Innitzer met Pacelli, who had been outraged by Innitzer's statement. He told Innitzer to retract his statement; he was made to sign a new statement, issued on behalf of all the Austrian bishops, that stated: \"The solemn declaration of the Austrian bishops... was clearly not intended to be an approval of something that was not and is not compatible with God's law\". The Vatican newspaper reported that the German bishops' earlier statement had been issued without approval from Rome.\n\nRobert Kauer, president of the minority Lutheran Church in Austria, greeted Hitler on 13 March as \"saviour of the 350,000 German Protestants in Austria and liberator from a five-year hardship\". Karl Renner, the most famous Social Democrat of the First Republic, announced his support for the \"Anschluss\" and appealed to all Austrians to vote in favour of it on 10 April.\n\nThe international response to the \"Anschluss\" was publicly moderate. \"The Times\" commented that 300 years before, Scotland had joined England as well, and that this event would not really differ much. On 14 March, the British Prime Minister, Neville Chamberlain spoke about the \"Austrian situation\" in the House of Commons. He noted that the British ambassador in Berlin objected to the use of \"coercion, backed by force\" that would undermine Austria's independence. Within this speech Chamberlain also said, \"The hard fact is that nothing could have arrested what has actually happened [in Austria] unless this country and other countries had been prepared to use force.\"\n\nThe subdued reaction to the \"Anschluss\" (the U.S. issued a similar statement) led to Hitler's conclusion that he could use more aggressive tactics in his \"roadmap\" to expand Nazi Germany, as he would later do in annexing the Sudetenland.\n\nOn March 18, 1938, the German government communicated to the Secretary General of the League of Nations about the inclusion of Austria. And next day in Geneva, the Mexican Delegate to the International Office of Labor, Isidro Fabela, voiced an energetic protest, stronger than that expressed by European countries, denouncing the annexation of Austria by Nazi Germany.\n\nThe word \"Anschluss\" is properly translated as \"joinder,\" \"connection,\" \"unification,\" or \"political union.\" In contrast, the German word \"Annektierung\" (military annexation) was not, and is not commonly used now, to describe the union of Austria and Germany in 1938. The word \"Anschluss\" had been widespread before 1938 describing an incorporation of Austria into Germany. Calling the incorporation of Austria into Germany an \"Anschluss,\" that is a \"unification\" or \"joinder,\" was also part of the propaganda used in 1938 by Nazi Germany to create the impression that the union was not coerced. Hitler described the incorporation of Austria as a \"Heimkehr\", a return to its original home. The word \"Anschluss\" has endured since 1938, despite being a euphemism for what took place.\n\nSome sources, like the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", describe the \"Anschluss\" as an \"annexation\" rather than a union.\n\nThe \"Anschluss\" was among the first major steps in Austrian-born Hitler's desire to create a Greater German Reich that was to include all ethnic Germans and all the lands and territories that the German Empire had lost after the First World War. Although Austria was predominantly ethnically German and had been part of the Holy Roman Empire until it dissolved in 1806 and the German Confederation until 1866 after the defeat in the Austro-Prussian War, it had never been a part of the German Empire. The unification of Germany brought about by Otto von Bismarck created that Prussian-dominated entity in 1871, with Austria, Prussia's rival for dominance of the German states, explicitly excluded.\n\nPrior to annexing Austria in 1938, Nazi Germany had remilitarized the Rhineland, and the Saar region was returned to Germany after 15 years of occupation through a plebiscite. After the \"Anschluss\", Hitler targeted Czechoslovakia, provoking an international crisis which led to the Munich Agreement in September 1938, giving Nazi Germany control of the industrial Sudetenland, which had a predominantly ethnic German population. In March 1939, Hitler then dismantled Czechoslovakia by recognising the independence of Slovakia and making the rest of the nation a protectorate. That same year, Memelland was returned from Lithuania.\n\nWith the \"Anschluss\", the Republic of Austria ceased to exist as an independent state. At the end of World War II, a Provisional Austrian Government under Karl Renner was set up by conservatives, Social Democrats and Communists on 27 April 1945 (when Vienna had already been occupied by the Red Army). It cancelled the \"Anschluss\" the same day and was legally recognized by the Allies in the following months. In 1955 the Austrian State Treaty re-established Austria as a sovereign state.\n\nThe Moscow Declaration of 1943, signed by the United States, the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom, included a \"Declaration on Austria\", which stated the following:\n\nThe governments of the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union and the United States of America are agreed that Austria, the first free country to fall a victim to Hitlerite aggression, shall be liberated from German domination.\n\nThey regard the annexation imposed on Austria by Germany on 15 March 1938, as null and void. They consider themselves as in no way bound by any changes effected in Austria since that date. They declare that they wish to see re-established a free and independent Austria and thereby to open the way for the Austrian people themselves, as well as those neighbouring States which will be faced with similar problems, to find that political and economic security which is the only basis for lasting peace.\n\nAustria is reminded, however, that she has a responsibility, which she cannot evade, for participation in the war at the side of Hitlerite Germany, and that in the final settlement account will inevitably be taken of her own contribution to her liberation.\n\nThe declaration was mostly intended to serve as propaganda aimed at stirring Austrian resistance. Although some Austrians aided Jews and are counted as Righteous Among the Nations, there never was an effective Austrian armed resistance of the sort found in other countries under German occupation.\n\nHowever, other occupied countries, such as Norway, Poland and France, had no such requirements to forcibly provide troops to the Wehrmacht, and their resistance movements had virtually the entire male populace of those countries, to call upon. Also, even the extremely few men, untouched by conscription in Austria, who might make up a resistance movement, would certainly know that they would probably be killing fellow Austrians, forced into German service, with each and every resistance movement attack.\n\nThe Moscow Declaration is said to have a somewhat complex drafting history. At Nuremberg, Arthur Seyss-Inquart and Franz von Papen, in particular, were both indicted under count one (conspiracy to commit crimes against peace) specifically for their activities in support of the Austrian Nazi Party and the \"Anschluss\", but neither was convicted of this count. In acquitting von Papen, the court noted that his actions were in its view political immoralities but not crimes under its charter. Seyss-Inquart was convicted of other serious war crimes, most of which took place in Poland and the Netherlands, was sentenced to death and executed.\n\nAfter World War II many Austrians sought comfort in the idea of Austria as being the first victim of the Nazis. Although the Nazi party was promptly banned, Austria did not have the same thorough process of denazification that was imposed on Germany. Lacking outside pressure for political reform, factions of Austrian society tried for a long time to advance the view that the \"Anschluss\" was only an annexation at the point of a bayonet.\n\nThis view of the events of 1938 has deep roots in the 10 years of Allied occupation and the struggle to regain Austrian sovereignty: the \"victim theory\" played an essential role in the negotiations for the Austrian State Treaty with the Soviets, and by pointing to the Moscow Declaration, Austrian politicians heavily relied on it to achieve a solution for Austria different from the division of Germany into separate Eastern and Western states. The state treaty, alongside the subsequent Austrian declaration of permanent neutrality, marked important milestones for the solidification of Austria's independent national identity during the course of the following decades.\n\nAs Austrian politicians of the left and right attempted to reconcile their differences to avoid the violent conflict that had dominated the First Republic, discussions of both Austrian Nazism and Austria's role during the Nazi-era were largely avoided. Still, the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) had advanced, and still advances, the argument that the establishment of the Dollfuss dictatorship was necessary to maintain Austrian independence. On the other hand, the Austrian Social Democratic Party (SPÖ) argues that the Dollfuss dictatorship stripped the country of the democratic resources necessary to repel Hitler; yet it ignores the fact that Hitler himself was a native of Austria.\n\nIt has also helped the Austrians develop their own national identity as before. After World War II and the fall of Nazi Germany the political ideology of Pan-Germanism fell into disfavor and is now seen by the majority of German-speaking people as taboo. Unlike earlier in the 20th century when there was no Austrian identity separate from a German one, in 1987 only 6% of the Austrians identified themselves as \"Germans.\" A survey carried out in 2008 concluded that over 90% of Austrians considered themselves to be an independent nation.\n\nFor decades, the victim theory remained largely undisputed in Austria. The public was rarely forced to confront the legacy of Nazi Germany. One of those occasions arose in 1965, when Taras Borodajkewycz, a professor of economic history, made anti-Semitic remarks following the death of Ernst Kirchweger, a concentration camp survivor killed by a right-wing protester during riots. It was not until the 1980s that Austrians confronted their mixed past on a large scale. The catalyst for the \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" (struggle to come to terms with the past) was the Waldheim affair. Kurt Waldheim, a candidate in the presidential election and former UN Secretary-General, was accused of having been a member of the Nazi party and of the infamous SA (he was later absolved of direct involvement in war crimes). The Waldheim affair started the first serious discussions about Austria's past and the \"Anschluss\".\n\nAnother factor was the rise of Jörg Haider and the Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) in the 1980s. The party had combined elements of the pan-German right with free-market liberalism since its foundation in 1955, but after Haider ascended to the party chairmanship in 1986, the liberal elements became increasingly marginalized. Haider began to openly use nationalist and anti-immigrant rhetoric. He was criticised for using the \"völkisch\" (ethnic) definition of national interest (\"Austria for Austrians\") and his apologetics for Austria's past, notably calling members of the Waffen-SS \"men of honour\". Following a dramatic rise in electoral support in the 1990s that peaked in the 1999 elections, the FPÖ entered a coalition with the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP), led by Wolfgang Schüssel. This was condemned in 2000. The coalition prompted the regular \"Donnerstagsdemonstrationen\" (Thursday demonstrations) in protest against the government, which took place on the Heldenplatz where Hitler had greeted the masses during the \"Anschluss\". Haider's tactics and rhetoric, often criticised as sympathetic to Nazism, forced Austrians to reconsider their relationship to the past. Haider's coalition partner, former Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, in a 2000 interview with the \"Jerusalem Post\", reiterated the \"first victim\" theory.\n\nThe political discussions and soul-searching were reflected in other aspects of culture. Thomas Bernhard's last play, \"Heldenplatz\" (1988), generated controversy even before it was produced, fifty years after Hitler's entrance to the city. Bernhard made the historic elimination of references to Hitler's reception in Vienna emblematic of Austrian attempts to claim its history and culture under questionable criteria. Many politicians called Bernhard a \"Nestbeschmutzer\" (damaging the reputation of his country) and openly demanded that the play should not be staged in Vienna's Burgtheater. Waldheim, still president, called the play \"a crude insult to the Austrian people\".\n\nIn the Federal Republic of Germany the \"Vergangenheitsbewältigung\" (\"struggle to come to terms with the past\") has been partially institutionalised in literary, cultural, political, and educational contexts. Austria formed a \"Historikerkommission\" (\"Historian's Commission\" or \"Historical Commission\") in 1998 with a mandate to review Austria's role in the Nazi expropriation of Jewish property from a scholarly rather than legal perspective, partly in response to continuing criticism of its handling of property claims. Its membership was based on recommendations from various quarters, including Simon Wiesenthal and Yad Vashem. The Commission delivered its report in 2003. Noted Holocaust historian Raul Hilberg refused to participate in the Commission and in an interview he stated his strenuous objections in terms both personal and in reference to larger questions about Austrian culpability and liability, comparing what he thought to be relative inattention by the World Jewish Congress to the settlement governing the Swiss bank holdings of those who died or were displaced by the Holocaust.\n\nThe Simon Wiesenthal Center continues to criticise Austria (as recently as June 2005) for its alleged historical and ongoing unwillingness aggressively to pursue investigations and trials against Nazis for war crimes and crimes against humanity from the 1970s onwards. Its 2001 report offered the following characterization:\n\nGiven the extensive participation of numerous Austrians, including at the highest levels, in the implementation of the Final Solution and other Nazi crimes, Austria should have been a leader in the prosecution of Holocaust perpetrators over the course of the past four decades, as has been the case in Germany. Unfortunately relatively little has been achieved by the Austrian authorities in this regard and in fact, with the exception of the case of Dr. Heinrich Gross which was suspended this year under highly suspicious circumstances (he claimed to be medically unfit, but outside the court proved to be healthy) not a single Nazi war crimes prosecution has been conducted in Austria since the mid-1970s.\n\nIn 2003, the Center launched a worldwide effort named \"Operation: Last Chance\" in order to collect further information about those Nazis still alive that are potentially subject to prosecution. Although reports issued shortly thereafter credited Austria for initiating large-scale investigations, there has been one case where criticism of Austrian authorities arose recently: The Center put 92-year-old Croatian Milivoj Asner on its 2005 top ten list. Asner fled to Austria in 2004 after Croatia announced it would start investigations in the case of war crimes he may have been involved in. In response to objections about Asner's continued freedom, Austria's federal government deferred to either extradition requests from Croatia or prosecutorial actions from Klagenfurt, claiming reason of dementia in 2008. Milivoj Ašner died on 14 June 2011 at the age of 98 in his room in a Caritas nursing home still in Klagenfurt.\n\n\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6474616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6474616", "title": "Assembly of Captive European Nations", "text": "Assembly of Captive European Nations\n\nAssembly of Captive European Nations or ACEN was an organization founded on September 20, 1954, as a coalition of representatives from nine nations in Central and Eastern Europe under Soviet domination after World War II. Former political and cultural leaders from Albania, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Romania were members of the organization. Its main office was in New York, with branch offices in Bonn, London and Paris.\n\nThe goals of the ACEN were, in their own words:\nto provide liberation from communist dictatorship by peaceful means, to educate public opinion on the actual situation behind the Iron Curtain, and to enlist the cooperation and assistance of governmental and non-governmental institutions.\n\nFunding was provided by the Free Europe Committee. When that organization suspended financial assistance to ACEN in January 1972 because of its own budget reductions, the offices of ACEN were closed and publication activities came to a halt. During its lifetime the organization published pamphlets and periodicals in English, as well as some of the members' own languages. It also sponsored symposia and exhibitions, in particular it promoted the commemoration of Captive Nations Week. It provided background information to members of the United States Congress regarding the political and economic situations in their homelands situated behind the Iron Curtain.\n\nThe records of the ACEN and its member organizations are preserved in the Immigration History Research Center Archives, University of Minnesota Libraries.\n\nACEN chairmen were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7150619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7150619", "title": "Bayt al-Mal (Hezbollah)", "text": "Bayt al-Mal (Hezbollah)\n\nHezbollah Bayt al-Mal, AKA Hezbollah Bayt al-Mal Lil Muslimeen, is a Hezbollah-controlled organization that performs financial services for the organization. In Arabic, the term is used as \"House of Money.\"\n\nBayt al-Mal operates under the direct supervision of Hezbollah Secretary General Hasan Nasrallah. As Hezbollah's main financial body, Bayt al-Mal serves as a bank, creditor, and investment arm for Hezbollah. Husayn al-Shami is the head of Bayt al-Mal.\n\nIt has branch offices in:\nHarat Hurayk, Beirut, Lebanon;\nBurj Al-Barajinah, Lebanon;\nSidon, Lebanon;\nTyre, Lebanon;\nAl-Nabatiyah, Lebanon;\nBa'albak, Lebanon; and\nHirmil, Lebanon.\n\nHezbollah Bayt al-Mal utilizes the Yousser Company for Finance and Investment to secure loans and finance business deals for Hezbollah companies.\n\nAccording to Mr. Stuart Levey, U.S. Department of Treasury's Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence (TFI),\"Bayt al-Mal functions as Hezbollah's unofficial treasury, holding and investing its assets and serving as intermediaries between the terrorist group and mainstream banks.\"\n\nThe central headquarters of Bayt al-Mal was located in Hezbollah's stronghold in Beirut's southern suburbs.\n"}
{"id": "765308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765308", "title": "Black Liberation Army", "text": "Black Liberation Army\n\nThe Black Liberation Army (BLA) was an underground Black Power organization that operated in the United States from 1970 to 1981. Composed entirely of Black Panthers (BPP) who served as members of both groups, the organization's program was one of war against the United States Government, and its stated goal was to \"take up arms for the liberation and self-determination of black people in the United States.\" The BLA carried out a series of bombings, killings of police officers and drug dealers, robberies (which participants termed \"expropriations\"), and prison breaks.\n\nThe Black Liberation Army gained strength as Black Panther Party membership declined. By 1970, police and FBI sabotage (see COINTELPRO), infiltration, sectarianism, the lengthy prison sentences, and death of key members (among them Fred Hampton) had significantly undermined the Black Panther Party. This convinced many former party members of the desirability of an underground existence, seeing that a new period of violent repression by the U.S federal and local government was at hand. BLA members operated under the belief that only through covert means, including but not limited to retribution, could the movement be continued until such a time when an above-ground existence was possible.\n\nThe conditions under which the Black Liberation Army formed are not entirely clear. It is commonly believed that the organization was founded by those who left the Black Panther Party after Eldridge Cleaver was expelled from the party's Central Committee. A fallout was inevitable between Cleaver and other Panther leaders after he publicly criticized the BPP, among other things accusing Panther social programs of being reformist rather than revolutionary. Others, including black revolutionary Geronimo Pratt (AKA Geronimo ji Jaga), assert that the BLA \"as a movement concept pre-dated and was broader than the BPP,\" suggesting that it was a refuge for ex-Panthers rather than a new organization formed through schism. \n\nMaxwell Stanford cites the Black Guards, a wing of the Revolutionary Action Movement, as direct BLA forerunners.\n\nSome accounts of the Black Liberation Army argue that the BLA grew out of the BPP and its original founders were members of the Party. The organization is often presented as a result of the repression on the BPP and the split within the Panthers. It is said to have formed after the collaboration of several Black revolutionary organizations and consisted of the Black underground which came to be collectively known as the Black Liberation Army. Assata Shakur, in her autobiography, asserts:\"“… the Black Liberation Army was not a centralized, organized group with a common leadership and chain of command. Instead there were various organizations and collectives working together and simultaneously independent of each other.”\n\nThe newly formed BLA believed that \"the character of reformism is based on unprincipled class collaboration with our enemy\" and asserted the following principles:\n\nAccording to a Justice Department report on BLA activity, the Black Liberation Army was suspected of involvement in over 70 incidents of violence between 1970 and 1976. The Fraternal Order of Police blamed the BLA for the murders of 13 police officers.\n\nOn October 22, 1970, the BLA was believed to have planted a bomb in St. Brendan's Church in San Francisco while it was full of mourners attending the funeral of San Francisco police officer Harold Hamilton, who had been killed in the line of duty while responding to a bank robbery. The bomb was detonated, but no one in the church suffered serious injuries.\n\nOn May 21, 1971, as many as five men participated in the murder of two New York City police officers, Joseph Piagentini and Waverly Jones. Those arrested and brought to trial for the shootings include Anthony Bottom (a.k.a. Jalil Muntaqim), Albert Washington, Francisco Torres, Gabriel Torres, and Herman Bell.\n\nOn August 29, 1971, three armed men murdered 51-year-old San Francisco police sergeant John Victor Young while he was working at a desk in his police station, which was almost empty at the time due to a bombing attack on a bank that took place earlier - only one other officer and a civilian clerk were there. Two days later, the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" received a letter signed by the BLA claiming responsibility for the attack.\n\nOn November 3, 1971, Officer James R. Greene of the Atlanta Police Department was shot and killed in his patrol van at a gas station. His wallet, badge, and weapon were taken, and the evidence at the scene pointed to two suspects. The first was Twymon Meyers, who was killed in a police shootout in 1973, and the second was Freddie Hilton (a.k.a. Kamau Sadiki), who evaded capture until 2002, when he was arrested in New York City on a separate charge, and was recognized as one of the men wanted in the Greene murder. Apparently, the two men had attacked the officer to gain standing with their compatriots within Black Liberation Army.\n\nOn January 27, 1972, the Black Liberation Army assassinated police officers Gregory Foster and Rocco Laurie at the corner of 174 Avenue B in New York City. After the killings, a note sent to authorities portrayed the murders as a retaliation for the prisoner deaths during 1971 Attica prison riot. To date no arrests have been made.\n\nOn July 31, 1972, five armed individuals hijacked Delta Air Lines Flight 841 en route from Detroit to Miami, eventually collecting a ransom of $1 million and diverting the plane, after passengers were released, to Algeria. The authorities there seized the ransom but allowed the group to flee. Four were eventually caught by French authorities in Paris, where they were convicted of various crimes, but one—George Wright—remained a fugitive until September 26, 2011, when he was captured in Portugal. Portuguese courts rejected the initial pledge for extradition. American authorities may still appeal this decision.\n\nIn another high-profile incident, Assata Shakur, Zayd Shakur and Sundiata Acoli were said to have opened fire on state troopers in New Jersey after being pulled over for a broken taillight. Zayd Shakur and state trooper Werner Foerster were both killed during the exchange. Following her capture, Assata Shakur was tried in six different criminal trials. According to Shakur, she was beaten and tortured during her incarceration in a number of different federal and state prisons. The charges ranged from kidnapping to assault and battery to bank robbery. Assata Shakur was found guilty of the murder of both Foerster and her companion Zayd Shakur, but escaped prison in 1979 and eventually fled to Cuba and received political asylum. Acoli was convicted of killing Foerster and sentenced to life in prison.\n\nThe BLA was active in the US until at least 1981 when a Brinks truck robbery, conducted with support from former Weather Underground members Kathy Boudin and David Gilbert, left a guard and two police officers dead. Boudin and Gilbert, along with several BLA members, were subsequently arrested.\n\nIn January 2007, eight men, labeled the San Francisco 8 were charged by a joint state and federal task force with John Young's murder. The defendants have been identified as former members of the Black Liberation Army. A similar case was dismissed in 1975 when a judge ruled that police gathered evidence through the use of torture. On June 29, 2009, Herman Bell pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter in the death of Sgt. Young. In July 2009, charges were dropped against four of the accused: Ray Boudreaux, Henry W. Jones, Richard Brown and Harold Taylor. That same month, Jalil Muntaquim pleaded no contest to conspiracy to commit voluntary manslaughter becoming the second person to be convicted in this case.\n\nFollowing the collapse of the BLA, some members - including Ashanti Alston, Donald Weems (a.k.a. Kuwasi Balagoon) and Ojore N. Lutalo - became outspoken proponents of anarchism. Weems died in prison of an AIDS-related disease in 1986. Alston remains active in prison support and other activist circles. Lutalo was released from prison in 2009 after serving 28 years on charges related to a shootout with a drug dealer in 1981 (and parole violation stemming from his conviction for a 1975 bank robbery), during which time he was punished with solitary confinement for receiving anarchist literature. While incarcerated, the Anarchist Black Cross Federation gave him support.\n\nOn January 26, 2010, he was arrested for endangering public transportation while on the Amtrak train to New Jersey after attending the Anarchist Book Fair in Los Angeles, being mistakenly identified as making terrorist threats on his cell phone. The charge was dropped for lack of evidence, and Lutalo settled a suit against the city of La Junta, Colorado, where his arrest was made, for an undisclosed amount.\n\nAn organization exists today claiming to be a recreated Black Liberation Army. The group is called the New Black Liberation Militia, a black nationalist paramilitary group with Fred Hampton, Jr. as a member.\n\nBLA members in prison as of 2017, include the following:\n\nOther high-profile BLA members and associates:\n\n\n2. \"Foster and Laurie\" by Al Silverman. Published by Little and Brown, 1974. .\n\"Days of Rage: America's Radical Underground, the FBI, and the Forgotten Age of Revolutionary Violence\" by Bryan Burrough. Published by Penguin Publishing Group, 2016. .\n\n"}
{"id": "52691190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52691190", "title": "Bulgarian train", "text": "Bulgarian train\n\nBulgarian train (; ; ; Macedonian and ) is a method of vote-rigging with the goal of influencing the election process through the control of ballots. The term was coined by the media in Bosnia and Herzegovina ahead of the country's general election in October 2010, and has since been used to refer to similar techniques used during elections in some of the ex-Yugoslavian republics. The name of the method originates from its widespread use during the European Parliament election held in Bulgaria in June 2009, at which analysts' estimates indicate that 200,000-350,000 votes were sold or coerced.\n\nBulgarian train is, in fact, a method of vote-buying that includes a recurrent process of casting pre-filled ballots. The process starts when political 'handlers' distribute pre-filled ballots in front of polling stations. The voters who are willing to sell their ballots take them into the polling stations, where they obtain empty ones, and cast their pre-filled. Then, they go back outside and hand the empty ballots to the handlers, who fill in them and give over to the next voters.\n\nThe method was massively used in Bulgaria during the European Parliament election in June and the parliamentary election in July 2009. The voters willing to sell their vote were primarily from the Roma community. Analysts estimate that the number of people who sold or coerced their vote in this way ranges from 200,000-350,000 at each election. Consequently, the name of the method has become eponymous with Bulgaria.\n\nThe implementation of the method was reportedly prevented in Struga during the Macedonian parliamentary election in December 2016.\n\nBulgarian train was reported during the Serbian parliamentary election in April 2016.\n\nBulgarian train was reported in Teslić during the Bosnian general election in October 2014, when the voting process was interrupted until the suspicious person was cleared from the polling station.\n\nThe use of the term \"Bulgarian train\" sparked controversies in Bulgaria, where it is considered offensive and the same technique of vote-rigging is known as \"Indian string\" (Bulgarian: \"индианска нишка\"). In a research paper on the vote-rigging in Bulgarian elections published in 2010, Bulgarian political scientist Georgi Manolov avoids the use of names associated with specific countries. He refers to the fraudulent techniques as 'vote trading' and the recurrent process of vote-rigging simply as 'train'.\n\n"}
{"id": "230834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230834", "title": "CAPTCHA", "text": "CAPTCHA\n\nA CAPTCHA (, an acronym for \"Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart\") is a type of challenge–response test used in computing to determine whether or not the user is human.\n\nThe term was coined in 2003 by Luis von Ahn, Manuel Blum, Nicholas J. Hopper, and John Langford. The most common type of CAPTCHA (displayed as Version 1.0) was first invented in 1997 by two groups working in parallel. The first group consisted of Mark D. Lillibridge, Martin Abadi, Krishna Bharat, and Andrei Z. Broder; the second group consisted of Eran Reshef, Gili Raanan and Eilon Solan. This form of CAPTCHA requires that the user type the letters of a distorted image, sometimes with the addition of an obscured sequence of letters or digits that appears on the screen. Because the test is administered by a computer, in contrast to the standard Turing test that is administered by a human, a CAPTCHA is sometimes described as a reverse Turing test.\n\nThis user identification procedure has received many criticisms, especially from disabled people, but also from other people who feel that their everyday work is slowed down by distorted words that are difficult to read. It takes the average person approximately 10 seconds to solve a typical CAPTCHA.\n\nSince the early days of the Internet, users have wanted to make text illegible to computers. The first such people could be hackers, posting about sensitive topics to Internet forums they thought were being automatically monitored for keywords. To circumvent such filters, they would replace a word with look-alike characters. \"HELLO\" could become or , as well as numerous other variants, such that a filter could not possibly detect \"all\" of them. This later became known as leetspeak.\n\nOne of the earliest commercial uses of CAPTCHAs was in the Gausebeck-Levchin test. In 2000, idrive.com began to protect its signup page with a CAPTCHA and prepared to file a patent on this seemingly novel technique. In 2001, PayPal used such tests as part of a fraud prevention strategy in which they asked humans to \"retype distorted text that programs have difficulty recognizing.\" PayPal cofounder and CTO Max Levchin helped commercialize this early use.\n\nA popular deployment of CAPTCHA technology, reCAPTCHA, was acquired by Google in 2009. In addition to preventing bot fraud for its users, Google used reCAPTCHA and CAPTCHA technology to digitize the archives of The New York Times and books from Google Books in 2011. In recent years, Google has used an image-based CAPTCHA to improve its driverless car data set, identifying objects like trees and crosswalks. Critics point to the un-witting participation of the end-user in advancing Google's commercial interests. In response, competitors have emerged with alternative models including compensation for the website host or end-user for their effort.\n\nTwo teams of people have claimed to be the first to invent the CAPTCHAs used widely on the Web today. The first team consists of Mark D. Lillibridge, Martín Abadi, Krishna Bharat, and Andrei Broder, who used CAPTCHAs in 1997 at AltaVista to prevent bots from adding URLs to their web search engine. Looking for a way to make their images resistant to OCR attack, the team looked at the manual of their Brother scanner, which had recommendations for improving OCR's results (similar typefaces, plain backgrounds, etc.). The team created puzzles by attempting to simulate what the manual claimed would cause bad OCR.\n\nThe second team to claim inventorship of CAPTCHAs consists of Luis von Ahn, Manuel Blum, Nicholas J. Hopper, and John Langford, who first described CAPTCHAs in a 2003 publication and subsequently received much coverage in the popular press. Their notion of CAPTCHA covers any program that can distinguish humans from computers, including many different examples of CAPTCHAs.\n\nThe controversy of inventorship has been resolved by the existence of a 1997 priority date patent application by Eran Reshef, Gili Raanan and Eilon Solan who worked at Sanctum on Application Security Firewall. Their patent application details that \"The invention is based on applying human advantage in applying sensory and cognitive skills to solving simple problems that prove to be extremely hard for computer software. Such skills include, but are not limited to processing of sensory information such as identification of objects and letters within a noisy graphical environment\"; and a 1998 patent by Lillibridge, Abadi, Bharat, and Broder. Both patents predate other publications by several years, though they do not use the term CAPTCHA, they describe the ideas in detail and precisely depict the graphical CAPTCHAs used in the Web today.\n\nCAPTCHAs are, by definition, fully automated, requiring little human maintenance or intervention to administer, producing benefits in cost and reliability.\n\nThe algorithm used to create the CAPTCHA must be made public, though it may be covered by a patent. This is done to demonstrate that breaking it requires the solution to a difficult problem in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) rather than just the discovery of the (secret) algorithm, which could be obtained through reverse engineering or other means.\n\nModern text-based CAPTCHAs are designed such that they require the simultaneous use of three separate abilities—invariant recognition, segmentation, and parsing—to correctly complete the task with any consistency.\n\n\nEach of these problems poses a significant challenge for a computer, even in isolation. The presence of all three at the same time is what makes CAPTCHAs difficult to solve.\n\nUnlike computers, humans excel at this type of task. While segmentation and recognition are two separate processes necessary for understanding an image for a computer, they are part of the same process for a person. For example, when an individual understands that the first letter of a CAPTCHA is an \"a\", that individual also understands where the contours of that \"a\" are, and also where it melds with the contours of the next letter. Additionally, the human brain is capable of dynamic thinking based upon context. It is able to keep multiple explanations alive and then pick the one that is the best explanation for the whole input based upon contextual clues. This also means it will not be fooled by variations in letters.\n\nWhile used mostly for security reasons, CAPTCHAs also serve as a benchmark task for artificial intelligence technologies. According to an article by Ahn, Blum and Langford, \"any program that passes the tests generated by a CAPTCHA can be used to solve a hard unsolved AI problem.\"\n\nThey argue that the advantages of using hard AI problems as a means for security are twofold. Either the problem goes unsolved and there remains a reliable method for distinguishing humans from computers, or the problem is solved and a difficult AI problem is resolved along with it. In the case of image and text based CAPTCHAs, if an AI were capable of accurately completing the task without exploiting flaws in a particular CAPTCHA design, then it would have solved the problem of developing an AI that is capable of complex object recognition in scenes.\n\nCAPTCHAs based on reading text — or other visual-perception tasks — prevent blind or visually impaired users from accessing the protected resource. However, CAPTCHAs do not have to be visual. Any hard artificial intelligence problem, such as speech recognition, can be used as the basis of a CAPTCHA. Some implementations of CAPTCHAs permit users to opt for an audio CAPTCHA, though a 2011 paper demonstrated a technique for defeating the popular schemes at the time.\n\nFor non-sighted users (for example blind users, or color blind people on a color-using test), visual CAPTCHAs present serious problems. Because CAPTCHAs are designed to be unreadable by machines, common assistive technology tools such as screen readers cannot interpret them. Since sites may use CAPTCHAs as part of the initial registration process, or even every login, this challenge can completely block access. In certain jurisdictions, site owners could become targets of litigation if they are using CAPTCHAs that discriminate against certain people with disabilities. For example, a CAPTCHA may make a site incompatible with Section 508 in the United States. In other cases, those with sight difficulties can choose to identify a word being read to them.\n\nWhile providing an audio CAPTCHA allows blind users to read the text, it still hinders those who are both blind and deaf. According to sense.org.uk, about 4% of people over 60 in the UK have both vision and hearing impairments. There are about 23,000 people in the UK who have serious vision and hearing impairments. According to The National Technical Assistance Consortium for Children and Young Adults Who Are Deaf-Blind (NTAC), the number of deafblind children in the USA increased from 9,516 to 10,471 during the period 2004 to 2012. Gallaudet University quotes 1980 to 2007 estimates which suggest upwards of 35,000 fully deafblind adults in the USA. Deafblind population estimates depend heavily on the degree of impairment used in the definition.\n\nThe use of CAPTCHA thus excludes a small number of individuals from using significant subsets of such common Web-based services as PayPal, Gmail, Orkut, Yahoo!, many forum and weblog systems, etc.\n\nEven for perfectly sighted individuals, new generations of graphical CAPTCHAs, designed to overcome sophisticated recognition software, can be very hard or impossible to read.\n\nA method of improving the CAPTCHA to ease the work with it was proposed by ProtectWebForm and was called \"Smart CAPTCHA\". Developers advise to combine the CAPTCHA with JavaScript support. Since it is too hard for most of spam robots to parse and execute JavaScript, using a simple script which fills the CAPTCHA fields and hides the image and the field from human eyes was proposed.\n\nOne alternative method involves displaying to the user a simple mathematical equation and requiring the user to enter the solution as verification. Although these are much easier to defeat using software, they are suitable for scenarios where graphical imagery is not appropriate, and they provide a much higher level of accessibility for blind users than the image-based CAPTCHAs. These are sometimes referred to as MAPTCHAs (M = 'mathematical'). However, these may be difficult for users with a cognitive disorder.\n\nOther kinds of challenges, such as those that require understanding the meaning of some text (e.g., a logic puzzle, trivia question, or instructions on how to create a password) can also be used as a CAPTCHA. Again, there is little research into their resistance against countermeasures.\n\nThere are a few approaches to defeating CAPTCHAs: using cheap human labor to recognize them, exploiting bugs in the implementation that allow the attacker to completely bypass the CAPTCHA, and finally using machine learning to build an automated solver. According to former Google \"click fraud czar\" Shuman Ghosemajumder, there are numerous services which solve CAPTCHAs automatically.\n\nIn its earliest iterations there was not a systematic methodology for designing or evaluating CAPTCHAs. As a result, there were many instances in which CAPTCHAs were of a fixed length and therefore automated tasks could be constructed to successfully make educated guesses about where segmentation should take place. Other early CAPTCHAs contained limited sets of words, which made the test much easier to game. Still others made the mistake of relying too heavily on background confusion in the image. In each case, algorithms were created that were successfully able to complete the task by exploiting these design flaws. These methods proved brittle however, and slight changes to the CAPTCHA were easily able to thwart them. Modern CAPTCHAs like reCAPTCHA no longer rely just on fixed patterns but instead present variations of characters that are often collapsed together, making segmentation almost impossible. These newest iterations have been much more successful at warding off automated tasks.\n\nIn October 2013, artificial intelligence company Vicarious claimed that it had developed a generic CAPTCHA-solving algorithm that was able to solve modern CAPTCHAs with character recognition rates of up to 90%. However, Luis von Ahn, a pioneer of early CAPTCHA and founder of reCAPTCHA, expressed skepticism, stating: \"It's hard for me to be impressed since I see these every few months.\" He pointed out that 50 similar claims to that of Vicarious had been made since 2003.\n\nIn August 2014 at Usenix WoOT conference, Bursztein et al. presented the first generic CAPTCHA-solving algorithm based on reinforcement learning and demonstrated its efficiency against many popular CAPTCHA schemas. They concluded that text distortion based CAPTCHAs schemes should be considered insecure moving forward.\n\nIt is possible to subvert CAPTCHAs by relaying them to a sweatshop of human operators who are employed to decode CAPTCHAs. A 2005 paper from a W3C working group stated that such an operator \"could easily verify hundreds of them each hour\". In 2010 the University of California at San Diego conducted a large scale study of those CAPTCHA's farms and found out that the retail price for solving one million CAPTCHAs is as low as $1,000.\n\nAnother technique used consists of using a script to re-post the target site's CAPTCHA as a CAPTCHA to a site owned by the attacker, which unsuspecting humans visit and correctly solve within a short while for the script to use.\nHowever, there is controversy around the economic viability of such an attack.\n\nHoward Yeend has identified two implementation issues with poorly designed CAPTCHA systems:\n\nSometimes, if part of the software generating the CAPTCHA is client-side (the validation is done on a server but the text that the user is required to identify is rendered on the client side), then users can modify the client to display the un-rendered text. Some CAPTCHA systems use MD5 hashes stored client-side, which may leave the CAPTCHA vulnerable to a brute-force attack.\n\nSome notable attacks against various CAPTCHAs schemas include:\n\nWith the demonstration that text distortion based \nCAPTCHAs are vulnerable to machine learning based attacks, some researchers have proposed alternatives including image recognition CAPTCHAs which require users to identify simple objects in the images presented. The argument in favor of these schemes is that tasks like object recognition are typically more complex to perform than text recognition and therefore should be more resilient to machine learning based attacks. Here are some of notable alternative CAPTCHA schemas:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17652562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17652562", "title": "Collectivization in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic", "text": "Collectivization in the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic\n\nCollectivization in Ukraine, officially the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic was part of the policy of Collectivization in the USSR and dekulakization that was pursued between 1928 and 1933 with the purpose to consolidate individual land and labour into collective farms called kolkhoz and to eliminate enemies of the working class. The idea of collective farms was seen by peasants as a revival of serfdom.\n\nIn Ukraine this policy had a dramatic effect on the Ukrainian ethnic population and its culture as 86% of the population lived in rural settings. The forceful introduction of the policy of collectivization was one of the main causes of the Holodomor. In Ukraine collectivization had specific goals and outcomes. The Soviet policies related to collectivisation have to be understood in the larger context of the social \"revolution from above\" that took place in the Soviet Union at the time.\n\nThe formation of Collective farms were based on the large village farms in collective ownership of village inhabitants. Estimated yields were expected to increase by 150%. The ultimate goal of collectivization was to resolve \"grain problems\" of the late 1920s.\n\nIn the early 1920s only 3% of the peasantry of the Soviet Union were collectivised. Within the first five-year plan 20% of peasant households were to be collectivised, although in Ukraine the number was set at 30%.\n\nApproaches to changing from individual farming to a collective type of agricultural production had existed since 1917, but for various reasons (lack of agricultural equipment, agronomy resources, etc.) were not implemented widely until 1925, when there was a more intensive effort by the agricultural sector to increase the number of agricultural cooperatives and bolster the effectiveness of already existing sovkhozes. In late 1927, after the XV Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, then known as the All-Union Communist party (bolsheviks) or VKP(b), a significant impetus was given to the collectivization effort.\n\nIn 1927, a drought shortened the harvest in southern areas of the Ukraine and North Caucasus. In 1927–28 the winter tillage area was badly affected due to low snow levels. Despite seed aid from the State, many affected areas were not re-sown. The 1928 harvest was affected by drought in most of the grain producing areas of Ukraine. Shortages in the harvest and difficulties with the supply system invoked difficulties with the food supply in urban areas and destabilized the food supply situation in the USSR in general. In order to alleviate the situation, a system of food rationing was implemented in the second quarter of 1928 initially in Odessa, and later spread to Mariupol, Kherson, Kiev, Dniprelstan (Dnipropetrovsk), and Kharkiv. At the beginning of 1929 a similar system was implemented throughout the USSR. Despite the aid from the Soviet Ukrainian and the Central governments, many southern rural areas registered occurrences of malnutrition and in some cases hunger and starvation (the affected areas and thus the amount of required food aid was under-accounted by authorities). Due to the shortage of forage livestock, its numbers were also affected (see table below).\nMost of kolkhozes and recently refurnished sovkhozes went through these years with few losses, and some were even able to provide assistance to peasants in the more affected areas (seed and grain for food).\n\nDespite an intense state campaign, collectivization, which was initially voluntary, was not popular amongst peasants: as of early 1929, only 5.6% of Ukrainian peasant households and 3.8% of arable land was “collectivized”. In the early of 1929, the methods employed by the specially empowered authority “UkrKolhozcenter” changed from a voluntary enrollment to an administrative one. By October 1, 1929, a plan for the creation of kolkhozes was “outperformed” by 239%. As a result, 8.8% of arable land was “collectivized”.\n\nThe next major step toward \"all-over collectivization\" took place after an article was published by Joseph Stalin in \"Pravda\", in early November 1929.\n\nWhile “summoned “ by November 10–November 17, 1929 meeting of VKP(b) Central Committee “Twenty-Five Thousanders\" only trained at special short courses, the main driving force of collectivization and \"dekulakization\" in Ukraine became a \"poor peasants committee\" (“komnezamy”) and local village councils (\"silrady\") where komnezams members had a voting majority.\n\nThe USSR Kolhozcenter issued the December 10, 1929, decree on collectivisation of livestock within a 3-month period (draft animals 100%, cattle 100%, pigs 80%, sheep and goats 60%). This drove many peasants to slaughter their livestock. By January 1, 1930, the percentage of collectivized households almost doubled, to 16.4% of the total number of households.\nDespite the infamous January 5, 1930 decree, in which the deadline for the complete collectivization of Ukraine was set for the period from the end of 1931 to the spring of 1932, Ukraine authorities decided to accelerate the completion of the campaign by autumn of 1930. The high expectations of the plan were outperformed by local authorities even without the assistance of the 7500 “Twenty-Five Thousanders who had reached some areas only by mid-February – by March 70.9% of arable land and 62.8% of peasant households were suddenly collectivized. The “Dekulakization” plan was also “over-performed”. Almost 200,000 households (3.8% of total peasant households) were affected by the requisition of property, land, and houses. Some of the peasants were arrested and deported “to the north”. Many arrested 'kulaks' and \"well-to-do\" farmers resettled their families to the Urals and Central Asia, where they were often exploited in others sectors of the economy, such as timber cutting. The term 'kulak' was ultimately applied to anybody resisting collectivization as many of the so-called 'kulaks' were no more well-off than other peasants.\n\nThe fast-track to collectivization incited numerous peasant revolts in Ukraine and in other parts of the USSR. In response to the situation, the Soviet regime stepped back: the March 2, 1930, issue of \"Pravda\" published the Stalin's article \"Dizzy with success\". Soon, numerous orders and decrees were issued banning the use of force and administrative methods. Some of “mistakenly dekulakized” received their property back, and even some mistakenly deported returned home but in insignificant numbers-–most remained where they had been deported. The collectivization process was rolled back: by 1 May 1933 38.2% of Ukrainian peasant households and 41.1% of arable land had been collectivized. By the end of August, these numbers declined to 29.2% and 35.6% respectively.\n\nA second forced \"voluntary\" collectivization campaign was initiated in the winter–summer of 1931 with significant assistance of the so-called \"tug-brigades\" composed from kolkhoz udarniks. Many \"kulaks\" along with families were deported from Ukraine.\n\nAccording to declassified data, around 300,000 peasants in Ukraine out of a population of about 30 million were subject to these policies in 1930–31. Ukrainians composed 15% of the total 1.8 million 'kulaks' relocated Soviet-wide. On July 20, 1931 – as a response to the numerous regional requests for additional numbers of kulak deportations Politburo of VKP (b) concluded that the “strategic task of the Party was almost accomplished. All further deportations were recommended to be administered only to individuals.”\n\nThis second forced \"voluntary\" collectivization campaign also invoked a delay in sowing. As a result, cereal crops were heavily affected by the 1931 drought. During winter and spring of 1930–31, the Ukrainian agricultural authority \"Narkomzem\" Ukrainian SRR issued several reports about the significant decline of livestock and especially draft-animal power caused by poor treatment, absence of forage, stables/farms and due the \"kulaks sabotage\".\n\nAccording to the first five-year plan, Ukrainian agriculture was to switch from an exclusive orientation of grain to a more diverse output. This included not only a rise in sugar beet crops, but also other types of agricultural production were expected to be utilised by industry (with even cotton plants being established in 1931). This plan anticipated a decrease in the area of grain cultivated, in contrast to an increase of yield and area for other crops. By July 1, 1931, 65.7% of Ukrainian peasant households and 67.2% of arable land were reported as \"collectivized\". The main grain and sugar beet production areas, however, were collectivized to a greater extent — 80-90%.\n\nThe Decree of Central Committee of VKP(b) from August 2, 1931 clarified the “all-over collectivization” term - in order to be considered complete the “all-over collectivization” does not have to reach “100%”, but not less than 68–70% of peasants households and not less than 75-80% of arable lands. According to the same decree “all-over collectivization” accomplished at Northern Caucasus (Kuban) - 88% of households and 92% of arable lands “collectivized”, Ukraine (South) – 85 and 94 percents respectively, Ukraine (Right Bank) – 69 and 80 percents respectively, and Moldavian ASRR (part of Ukrainian SRR) – 68 and 75 percent.\n\nAs of the beginning of October 1931, the collectivization of 68.0% of peasant households, and 72.0% of arable land was complete.\n\nThe plan for the state grain collection in Ukraine adopted for 1931 was over-optimistic — 510 million poods (8.4 Tg). Drought, administrative distribution of the plan for kolkhozes, together with the lack of relevant management generally destabilized the situation. Significant amounts of grain remained unharvested. A significant percentage was lost during processing and transportation, or spoiled at elevators (wet grain). The total Winter sowing area shrunk by approximately 2 million hectares. Livestock in kolkhozes remained without forage, which was collected under grain procurement. A similar occurrence happened with respect to seeds and wages awarded in kind for kolhoz members. Nevertheless, grain collection continued till May 1932 but reached only 90% of expected plan figures. By the end of December 1931, the collection plan was accomplished by 79%. Many kolkhozes from December 1931 onwards suffered from lack of food, resulting in an increased number of deaths caused by malnutrition registered by OGPU in some areas (Moldavia as a whole and several central rayons of Vinnytsia, Kiev and North-East rayons of Odessa oblasts) in winter-spring and the early summer months of 1932. By 1932 the sowing campaign of Ukraine was obtained with minimal power as most of the remaining horses were incapable of working, while the number of available agricultural tractors was too small to fill the gap.\n\nSpeculative prices on food in the cooperative network (5–10 times more as compared with neighboring Soviet republics) invoked a significant movement of peasants in search for bread. Attempts were made to manage the problem with bread speculation by imposing a quota on all carried foods met with very limited success. On the request of Kosior such provisions were lifted by Stalin at the end of May 1932. The July GPU reports for the first half of 1932, mentioned the “difficulties with food” in 127 rayons (out of 484), acknowledged the fact that they did not have information for all regions. The Decree of Sovnarkom on “Kolkhoz Trade” issued in May, fostered rumors amongst peasants that collectivization was once again rolled-back as it had been in the spring 1930. As a result, the number of peasants who abandoned the kolkhozes significantly increased.\n\nThe Government of the Ukrainian SSR tried to remedy the situation from March with recourse to internal resources, but had little success - withdrawal of food from other Ukrainian regions depleted their own limited supplies. Starting in February 1932, administrative and territorial reform (oblast creation) also added mismanagement cast, - even Moscow had more details about the seed situation than the Ukrainian authorities. In May, in a desperate effort to change the situation, the central Soviet Government provided 7.1 million poods of grain for food for Ukraine and reverted no less than 700 agricultural tractors intended for other regions of USSR. By July, the total amount of aid provided from Central Soviet Authorities for food, sowing and forage for “agricultural sector” was numbered more than 17 million poods.\n\nTaking into account the situation in Ukraine, the central grain collection plan was lowered by 18.1%, in comparison to the 1931 plan. Kolkhozes were expected to harvest 4,751.2 thousand tons, with the peasants responsible for 1,080.1 thousand tons. Sovkhozes were to submit 475,034 tons. In addition Ukrainian kolkhozes and sovkhozes were to return 132,750 tons of grain which had been provided in spring 1932 as aid. The grain collection plan for July 1932 was adopted to collect 19.5 million poods.\n\nThe actual state of collection was disastrous however, and by 31 July only 3 million poods (compared to 21 million in 1931) were collected. As of July 20 the harvested area was half of that in 1931. The sovhozes had only sowed 16% of the defined area.\nThis disparity between agricultural goals, and actual production grew later in the year. An expected 190 thousand tons of grain were to be exported, but by August 27, 1932, only 20 thousand tons were ready. Ukraine met with difficulty in supplying the planned amount of food and as a result a rationing system was implemented to supply urban areas with food. This system became the major source of food delivery to cities while the alternatives, cooperative trade and black market trading, became too expensive, and under-supplied, to provide long-range assistance. By October 25, the plan for grain collection was lowered once again, from the quantity called for in the plan of August 22, 1932. Nevertheless, collection reached only 39% of the annually planned total. A second lowering of goals deducted 70 million poods but still demanded plan completion, and 100% efficiency. Attempts to reach the new goals of production proved futile in late 1932. On November 29, in order to complete the plan, Ukraine was to collect 94 million poods, 4.8 of them from sovkhozes. As of January 2, targets were again lowered, to 62.5 million poods. Later that month, on January 14,the targets were lowered even further– by 29.4 million poods, to 33.1 million. Vinnytsia, Kiev oblasts and Moldavian SRR had accomplished the lowered 1932 plan for grain procurement, but not for sowing reserves. The total remains for Ukraine was 22.1 million poods. At same time, GPU of Ukraine reported hunger and starvation in the Kiev and Vinnytsia oblasts, and began implementing measures to remedy the situation. By January 29 Kharkiv Oblast had also fulfilled the grain collection plan, and reached its production target. Despite these apparent successes in production, the total amount of grain collected by February 5 was only 255 million poods (compared to 440 million poods in 1931) while the numbers of “hunger and malnutrition cases” as registered by the GPU of Ukraine, increased every day, particularly in rural areas and small towns.\nBy early 1932, 69% of households were collectivized. Even though several other regions in the USSR were collectivized to a greater extent, the effect of the collectivization on the Ukrainian agriculture was very substantial.\n\nWhilst the long-lasting effect of overall collectivization had an adverse effect on agricultural output everywhere, Ukraine had long been the most agriculturally productive area, providing over 50% of exported grain and 25% of total production of grain in the Russian Empire in 1913. Over 228,936 square kilometres (56.571 million acres), 207,203 km² (51.201 million acres) were used for grain production, or 90.5% of total arable land. This degree of dependency on agriculture meant that the effects of a bad harvest could be almost unlimited. This had been long recognised, and while projections for agricultural production were adjusted, the shock of limited production could not be easily managed. While collections by the state were in turn, limited, there were already clear stresses. The 1932 total Soviet harvest, was to be 29.5 million tons in state collections of grain out of 90.7 million tons in production. But the actual result was a disastrous 55-60 million tons in production. The state ended up collecting only 18.5 million tons in grain. The total Soviet collections by the state were virtually the same in 1930 and 1931 at about 22.8 million tons. For 1932, they had significantly been reduced to 18.5 million tons; with even lower figure in Ukraine. These were the total estimated outcomes of the grain harvests:\n\nIn 1928, a \"by contract\" policy of procurement (contracts for the delivery of agricultural products) was implemented for kolkhozes and ordinary peasants alike (\"kulaks\" had a \"firm\" plan for procurement) . Accordingly, from 1928 through January 1933, \"grain production areas\" were required to submit 1/3–1/4 of their estimated yield, while areas designated as \"grain\" were required to submit no more than 1/8 of their estimated yield. However, between the Autumn of 1930 and the Spring of 1932, local authorities tended to collect products from kolkhozes in amounts greater than the minimum required in order to exceed the contracted target (in some cases by more than 200%). Especially harmful methods utilized in the \"by contract\" policy were \"counterplan\" actions, which were additional collection plans implemented in already fulfilled contracts. Such \"counterplan\" measures were strictly forbidden after the Spring of 1933 as \"extremely harmful for kolkhoz development.\" \nIn 1932 a \"1/4 of yield\" procurement quota for \"grain production areas\" of Ukraine were planned for implementation. On September 23, 1932, a telegram signed by Molotov and Stalin noted that the harvest of 1932 was \"satisfactory\", according to estimates provided by the agricultural planning authorities, and therefore requests for seed for winter crops were refused while total winter-tillage area demands were increased. Later, Stalin blamed the statistical and planning authorities for inaccurately estimating potential yields and thus a \"Commissions for yield estimation\" was created on December 17, 1932 by his order. Some modern historians also agree that the 1932 harvest figures provided at the time were largely overestimated and the actual difference between estimated and actual harvest was significant. Such unrealistic figures resulted in demand that was impossibly to fulfill and resulted in lesser reduction of grain procurement plan and greater grain procurement then were possible in late 1932 through the February 5, 1933\n\nOn August 7, 1932, the Soviet government passed a law \"on the safekeeping of Socialist property\" that imposed from a ten-year prison sentence to the death penalty for any theft of socialist property. Stalin personally appended the stipulation: \"People who encroach on socialist property should be considered enemies of the people.\" Within five months after passage of the law, 54,645 individuals were sentenced under its provisions, of which, 2,110 were sentenced to death. The initial wording of the Decree \"On fought with speculation” adopted August 22, 1932 lead to common situations where acts by minor such as bartering tobacco for bread were documented as punished by 5 years imprisonment .; After 1934,by NKVD demand, the penalty for minor offenses was limited to a fine of 500 rubles or 3 months of correctional labor.\n\n<br>\nThe existed practice of administrative punishment known as “black board” (black list) by the November, 18 Decree of Central Committee of the Communist Party (Bolshevik) of Ukraine was applied to a greater extent and with more harsh methods to selected villages and kolkhozes that were considered to be \"underperforming\" in the grain collection procurement: “Immediate cessation of delivery of goods, complete suspension of cooperative and state trade in the villages, and removal of all available goods from cooperative and state stores”. Full prohibition of collective farm trade for both collective farms and collective farmers, and for private farmers. Cessation of any sort of credit and demand for early repayment of credit and other financial obligations.” Initially such sanctions were applied to only six villages, but later they were applied to numerous rural settlements and districts. For peasants, who were not kolkhoz members and who were \"underperforming\" in the grain collection procurement, special “measures” were adopted. To “reach the grain procurement quota” amongst peasants 1,100 brigades were organized which consisted of activists (often from neighboring villages) which had accomplished their grain procurement quota or were close to accomplishing it. Since most of goods supplied to the rural areas was commercial (fabrics, matches, fuels) and was sometimes obtained by villagers from neighbored cities or railway stations, sanctioned villages remained for a long period – as an example mentioned in the December 6 Decree the village of Kamyani Potoky was removed from blacklist only October 17, 1933 when they completed their plan for grain collection early. Since January 1933 the black list regime was “softened” when 100% of plan execution was no longer demanded, mentioned in the December 6 Decree villages Liutenky and Havrylivka were removed from the black list after 88 and 70% of plan completion respectively.\nMeasures were undertaken to persecute those withholding or bargaining grain. This was done frequently by requisition detachments, which raided farms to collect grain, and was done regardless of whether the peasants retained enough grain to feed themselves, or whether they had enough seed left to plant the next harvest.\n\nSpecial barricades were set up by GPU units throughout the USSR to prevent an exodus of peasants from the hunger-stricken regions. During a single month in 1933, 219,460 people were intercepted and escorted back or arrested and sentenced. In Ukraine, these measures had the following results, according to the declassified documents during the 11 days (23 January–2 February) after the January 22, 1933 Decree 3861 people were intercepted of which 340 were arrested \"for further recognition\". During the same period, in trains and at railway stations on the whole Ukrainian territory, there were 16,773 people intercepted (907 of those not living in Ukraine); out of those, 1,610 people were arrested. Such figures also included criminals. In the same document, the OGPU informed about the number of peasants which already had left the Ukrainian territory (94,433 persons) during the period from December 15, 1932 to January 2, 1933 (data for 215 districts out of 484, and Moldavian ASRR).\n\nThe government introduced new identity papers and obligatory registration for citizens in December 1932. Initially, the area of new identity papers and obligatory registration implementation were limited to Moscow and Leningrad (encircling 100 km ) and Kharkiv (encircling 50 km) and the new measures were planned for implementation by June 1933. Travel from Ukraine and the Northern Caucasus (Kuban) kray (region) was \"specifically\" forbidden by directives of January 22, 1933 (signed by Molotov and Stalin) and of January 23, 1933 (joint directive VKP(b) Central Committee and Sovnarkom). The directives stated that the travels \"for bread\" from these areas were organized by enemies of the Soviet power with the purpose of agitation in northern areas of the USSR against kolkhozes, same as it happened last year (1932) from Ukraine, but were not prevented. Therefore, railway tickets were to be sold only by \"ispolkom\" permits, and those who already reached the north should be arrested.\n\nOn February 23, 1933 Politburo of VKP(b) Central Committee adopted a decree “About foreign journalists travel through USSR” which expected what they can be travel and reside in mentioned areas only after approval and obtained a permit from General Directorate of Militia\". The Soviet government denied initial reports of the famine (but agreed with information about malnutrition), and prevented foreign journalists from traveling in the region. At the same time there was no credible evidence of information blockade arrangements on a considerable number of foreign specialists (engineers, workers, etc.) which engaged at many construction site at Ukrainian territory.\n\nFor example, Gareth Jones, one of Lloyd George’s private secretaries spent several days in mid-March in travel “all twenty villages, not only in the Ukraine, but also in the black earth district, and in the Moscow region, and that I slept in peasants' cottages, and did not immediately leave for the next village”. He easily reached neighboring rural areas of capital of Soviet Ukraine – Kharkov, spent some days there and despite what he has not “saw in the villages no dead human beings nor animals” this journalist who never before saw a famine evidence, reported “that there was famine in the Soviet Union” (actually increasing of death rate from starvation wider affected Kharkov Oblasts in mid April-begin of June 1933).\n\nOn August 23, 1933 foreign correspondents were warned individually by the press section of the Foreign Office of USSR not to attempt to travel to the provinces or elsewhere in the Soviet Union without first obtaining formal permission. Foreign Office of USSR without explanation refused permission to William H. Chamberlain, Christian Science Monitor correspondent, to visit and observe the harvest in the principal agricultural regions of the North Caucasus and Ukraine. Several months (May–July 1933) ago two other American correspondents were forbidden to make a trip to Ukraine. Such restriction was softened since September 1933.\n\nScholars who have conducted research in declassified archives have reported \"the Politburo and regional Party committees insisted that immediate and decisive action be taken in response to the famine such that 'conscientious farmers' not suffer, while district Party committees were instructed to supply every child with milk and decreed that those who failed to mobilize resources to feed the hungry or denied hospitalization to famine victims be prosecuted.\"\n\nBased on data collected by undercover investigation and photos, the Bohemian-Austrian Catholic Theodor Cardinal Innitzer by the end of 1933 made campaigns of awareness in the West about the massive deaths by hunger and even cases of cannibalism that were occurring in Ukraine and the North Caucasus at that time.\n\nFirst reports about difficulties with food (malnutrition, hunger) in rural areas and same situation in towns (which undersupplied through rationing system) from Ukrainian GPU and Oblasts Authorities referred to beginning, mid-January 1933. “Measures to localize the cases” predominantly based on locally available resources. While the numbers of such reports and areas mentioned in them increased (as also a quantity of food requested ) Central Committee of the Communist Party (Bolshevik) of Ukraine issued a February 8, 1933 Decree which urged what every “hunger case” should be treated without delay and with maximum mobilization of own resources of kolkhozes, rayons, towns, and oblasts\". Also that decree demanded “within 7 days term” an information about food aid which should be provided from “central sources”. As of February 20, 1933 Dnipropetrovska oblast - reported as most affected – received 1.2 million of poods of food aid, Odeska – 0.8 million, Kharkovska – 0.3 million accordingly to the Order of Central Committee of VKP (b). For Kievska oblast by March, 18 Decree of VKP (b) was allocated 6 million of poods. Ukrainian Authorities also provide the aid but it was limited to resources available. In order to preserve orphaned and affected by hunger children Ukrainian GPU and Peoples Commissariat of Heals created special commission; was established a kindergartens network were children should get an additional food (sugar, oils, products from grain), specially directed for him from Central Ukrainian and Soviet authorities. Urban areas also significantly affected by shortage food supplied predominantly through of rationing system. March 20, 1933 Stalin sign a decree which lowered the monthly milling levy for Ukraine by 14 thousand tons, which amount should be redistributed as additional bread supply “for students, small towns and small enterprises in big cities and specially in Kiev”.\n\nHowever food aid distribution was not relevantly managed and redistributed by regional and local authorities, even not spoken about differences in amount required and amount provided.\n\nOverturning the first wave of hunger in February – March Ukrainian authorities met with second even worst wave of hunger in starvation in April- May – especially in Kiev and Kharkiv oblasts (delayed winter also add additional casts to that regions situation.)\n\nBetween February and June 1933, at least thirty-five Politburo decisions and Sovnarkom decrees selectively authorized issue of a total of 35.19 million poods (576,400 tonnes) or more than half of total aid to whole Soviet agriculture - 1.1 million ton provided by Central soviet Authorities in winter-spring 1933 - of grain for food, seeds and forage for Ukrainian peasants, kolhozes and sovhozes. Such figures do not include grain and flour aid provided for urban population, children and aid from local sources. Stalin personally authorized distribution of aid in the case of a request by Michail Aleksandrovich Sholokhov, whose own district was stricken. However, Stalin also reprimanded Sholokhov for failing to recognize \"sabotage\" within his district. This was the only instance that a specific amount of aid was given a specific district. Other appeals were not as successful and many desperate pleas were cut back or rejected.\n\nDocuments from the Soviet archives indicate that the aid distribution was made selectively to the most affected areas and from the spring months such assistance has the goal of the relief effort at sowing time was targeted to recovering patients. A special resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party (Bolshevik) of Ukraine for the Kiev Oblast, from March 31, 1933, ordered dividing peasants hospitalized into ailing and recovering patients. The resolution ordered improving the nutrition of the latter within the limits of available resources so that they could be sent out into the fields to sow the new crop as soon as possible. The food was dispensed according to special resolutions from the government bodies, and additional food was given in the field where the laborers worked.\n\nAfter recognition of the famine situation in Ukraine during the drought and poor harvests, the Soviet government in Moscow continued to export grain rather than retain its crop to feed the people, even though on a significantly lower level than in previous years. In 1930–31 there had been 5,832,000 tons of grains exported In 1931–32, grain exports declined to 4,786,000 tons. In 1932–33, grain exports were just 1,607,000 tons and in 1933–34, this further declined to 1,441,000 tons. Officially published data slightly differ\n\nCereals : 1930 - 4,846,024; 1931 - 5,182,835; 1932 - 1,819,114 (first half of 1932 - approx 750 000, from late April grain also imported - approx. 157,000 tonnes ); 1933 - 1,771,364 tonnes (first half of 1933 - 220 000, late March grain also imported).\n\nFrom that wheat: 1930 - 2,530,953; 1931 - 2,498,958 ; 1932 - 550,917; 1933 - 748,248 tons. Via Ukrainian commercial ports in 1932 were exported (thousand tons): 988.3 -grains, 16,5 other types of cereals; in 1933 - 809.6,-grains 2.6 -cereals; 3.5 meat, 0.4- butter, 2.5 - fish.\n\nVia Ukrainian commercial ports in 1932 were imported (thousand tons): 1932 - no more than 67.2 of grains and cereals 1933 - 8.6 of grains.\n\nReceived from other Soviet ports - 1932 (thousand tons): 164 - grains, 7.3 - other types of cereals, fish -31.5 and no more than 177 thousand tons of meat and butter 1933- 230 - grains, 15.3 other types of cereals 0.1 - meat, 0.9- butter, fish - 34.3.\n\nAfter grain collection difficulties in 1927 and 1928, Stalin ordered the creation of state grain and meat enterprises – sovkhozes - which, accordingly to his initial vision, should deliver more than 100 million of poods of grain in 1932. However, in 1932 their production results were disastrous because of poor general and agricultural management and planning, despite the significant (as compared to kolkhozes) amount of modern agricultural mechanisms (agricultural tractors, harvesters, etc.) employed. But the biggest reason was that they continually seed wheat from 1929 on the same areas and even without fertilizers. Sovkhozes also suffered from a lack of manpower and infrastructure (roads, elevators etc.). Losses during harvesting were extremely high.\nThus despite an expected 290 millions of poods (more than 5 million tons) in 1932, sovkhozes produced 5 time less, while the situation with livestock was even worse. As of July 20, 1932 sovhozes of the Ukrainian SRR had only logged a mere 16% of the defined sawing area.\n\nAnother factor in the decline of the harvests were the shortage of drought power for ploughing and reaping was even more acute in 1932 than in the previous year. The number of working horses declined from 19.5 million on July 1, 1931 to 16.2 million on July 1, 1932. The desperate efforts to replace horses by tractors failed to compensate for this loss. In 1931, the total supply of tractors to agriculture amounted to , 393,000 produced at home and 578,000 imported. But in 1932, because of the foreign trade crisis and home producing establishing, no tractors at all were imported.\n\nIn the whole of 1932, only 679,000 tractor horsepower was supplied to agriculture, considerably less than in 1931. Only about half became available in time for the harvest, and even less in time for the spring sowing. Animal drought power deteriorated in quality. Horses were fed and maintained even more inadequately than in the previous year. The acute shortage of horses led to the notorious decision to employ cows as working animals. According to the speech of one Soviet official at one of the most affected by famine region, the Dnipropetrovsk Oblast \"in 1932 we employ only 9000 cows, but in 1933 we involve at least 3/4 of their total number; 57000 employed at sowing.\" February 23, the Lower Volga party bureau decided to use 200,000 cows for special field work.\n\n"}
{"id": "34839134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34839134", "title": "Dark money", "text": "Dark money\n\nIn the politics of the United States, dark money is funds given to nonprofit organizations—and include 501(c)(4) (social welfare) 501(c)(5) (unions) and 501(c)(6) (trade association) groups—that can receive unlimited donations from corporations, individuals and unions. They can spend funds to influence elections, but are not required to disclose their donors. Dark money first entered politics with \"Buckley v. Valeo\" (1976) when the United States Supreme Court laid out Eight Magic Words that define the difference between electioneering and issue advocacy.\n\nAccording to the Center for Responsive Politics, \"spending by organizations that do not disclose their donors has increased from less than $5.2 million in 2006 to well over $300 million in the 2012 presidential cycle and more than $174 million in the 2014 midterms.\" The\" New York Times\" editorial board has opined that the 2014 midterm elections were influenced by \"the greatest wave of secret, special-interest money ever raised in a congressional election.\"\n\nThe term was first used by the Sunlight Foundation to describe undisclosed funds that were used during the United States 2010 mid-term election. An example of the usage of the term \"dark money\" can be seen in a letter of resignation to President Donald Trump, by former Federal Election Commissioner (FEC), Ann Ravel: “Since 2010, well over $800 million in dark money has been spent in competitive races. At the same time, elections have become more and more expensive. Most of the funding comes from a tiny, highly unrepresentative part of the population.”\n\nThe rise of dark money groups was aided by the U.S. Supreme Court decisions in \"FEC v. Wisconsin Right to Life, Inc.\" (2008) and \"Citizens United v. FEC\" (2010). In \"Citizens United\", the Court ruled (by a 5–4 vote) that corporations and unions could spend unlimited amounts of money to advocate for or against political candidates.\n\nIn some elections, dark money groups have surpassed traditional political action committees (PAC) and \"super PACs\" (independent-expenditure-only committees) in the volume of spending. In 2012, Freedom Partners had the ninth-highest revenues among all U.S. trade associations which filed tax returns that year, more than \"established heavyweights\" such as the American Petroleum Institute, PhRMA, and U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Freedom Partners largely acted as a conduit for campaign spending; of the $238 million it spent in 2012, 99 percent went to other groups, and Freedom Partners itself did not have any employees. This was a major distinction between other high-revenue trade associations, which typically have many employees and devote only about 6 percent of spending to grants to outside groups. In 2014, Freedom Partners was identified as the \"poster child\" for the rise of dark money. The largest and most complex network of dark money groups are funded by conservative billionaire business magnates Charles and David Koch; the Koch brothers' network accounted for about a quarter of dark money spending in 2012.\n\nApproaching the 2018 midterm elections, in mid-September, just 15 groups accounted for three-quarters of the anonymous cash.\n\nAccording to the Center for Responsive Politics, dark money (which it defined as funds from outside groups that did not publicly disclose donors, plus groups that received a substantial portion of their contributions from such nondisclosing groups) accounted for nearly 44% of outside spending in the 2010 election cycle.\n\nIn the 2012 election cycle, more than $308 million in dark money was spent, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. An estimated 86 percent was spent by conservative groups, 11 percent by liberal groups and 3 percent by other groups.\n\nThe three dark money groups which spent the largest sums were Karl Rove's American Crossroads/Crossroads GPS ($71 million), the Koch brothers' Americans for Prosperity ($36 million) and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce ($35 million), all conservative groups. The three liberal groups with the largest dark-money expenditures were the League of Conservation Voters ($11 million), Patriot Majority USA, a group focusing on public schools and infrastructure ($7 million), and Planned Parenthood (almost $7 million).\n\nThe 2014 election cycle saw the largest amount of dark money ever spent in a congressional election; the \"New York Times\" editorial board described 2014 \"the greatest wave of secret, special-interest money ever.\" On the eve of the election, Republican-leaning dark money groups dominated, with $94.6 million in expenditures, exceeding dark money expenditures by Democratic-leaning dark money groups ($28.4 million), and by expenditures that could not be classified ($1.9 million). Karl Rove's dark money group Crossroads GPS alone spent over $47 million in the 2014 election cycle.\n\nIn the Senate elections, dark money spending was highly concentrated in a handful of targeted competitive states, and especially in Alaska, Arkansas, Colorado, Kentucky, and North Carolina. In the eleven most competitive Senate races, $342 million was spent by non-party outside groups, significantly more than the $89 million spent by the political parties.\n\nIn the 2014 Kentucky election, a key player was the \"Kentucky Opportunity Coalition,\" a group supporting Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, whom the \"New York Times\" editorial board has described as \"the most prominent advocate for unlimited secret campaign spending in Washington.\" The Kentucky Opportunity Coalition, a 501(c)(4) \"social welfare\" group, raised more than $21 million, while McConnell raised about $32 million and McConnell's opponent, Democratic candidate Alison Lundergan Grimes, raised about $19 million. According to a Center for Public Integrity analysis of data provided by advertising tracking firm Kantar Media/CMAG, the group ran more than 12,400 television advertisements. Every Kentucky Opportunity Coalition's television advertisements mentioned either McConnell or Grimes; overall, about 53 percent of the group's ads praised McConnell while the rest were attack ads against Grimes. The Kentucky Opportunity Coalition relied heavily on political consultants in Washington, D.C. and Virginia linked to Karl Rove's Crossroads groups, and received $390,000 in a grant from Crossroads GPS. Described as \"mysterious,\" the group was listed by a Post Office box, and the only name formally associated with the group was political operative J. Scott Jennings, a deputy political director in the George W. Bush administration, a worker for McConnell's previous campaigns. Melanie Sloan of the watchdog organization Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington said that the Kentucky Opportunity Coalition was \"nothing more than a sham.\"\n\nDark money also played a role in other competitive Senate seats in 2014. In ten competitive Senate seats, the winners had the following in dark-money support, according to an analysis by the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law:\n\nIn North Carolina, the pro-Tillis group \"Carolina Rising\" received nearly all (98.7%) of its funds from Crossroads GPS; the Center for Responsive Politics highlighted this as an example of how Crossroads GPS, a 501(c)(4) group, \"evades limits on political activity through grants\" to other 501(c)(4) groups. In the 2014 cycle, Crossroads GPS also gave $5.25 million to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, $2 million to the American Future Fund, and $390,000 to the Kentucky Opportunity Coalition. In total, Crossroads GPS spent more than $13.6 million on grants to other groups, which it described as being for the purposes of \"social welfare.\"\n\nIn 2014, the Democratic Party-aligned dark money group Patriot Majority USA, a 501(c)(4), spent almost $13.7 million on \"direct and indirect political campaign activities,\" airing 15,000 television ads in targeted Senate races. About half of the $30 raised by the group came from five anonymous donors. The group was led by Craig Varoga, \"a staunch ally\" of Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada.\n\nIn Alaska, Mark Begich was \"one of the few Democratic candidates to come close to receiving as much support from dark money as his Republican opponent.\" The pro-Begich Alaska Salmon PAC, funded entirely by the League of Conservation Voters and its Alaska affiliate, spent funds in support of Begich.\n\nAccording to the Center for Responsive Politics, by October 2015, $4.88 million in dark money had already been spent for the 2016 election cycle, \"more than 10 times the $440,000 that was spent at this point during the 2012 cycle.\" The money was spent by six groups - five conservative groups (including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which spent $3 million, and Americans for Prosperity, which spent $1.5 million) and one liberal group (Planned Parenthood, which spent just under $75,000).\n\nAccording to Richard Skinner of the Sunlight Foundation, \"the focus of early dark money being spent in the 2016 cycle\" is on competitive U.S. Senate elections and some U.S. House of Representatives races. However, dark money also is playing a role in the 2016 Republican presidential primaries; by June 2015, at least four Republican presidential candidates were raising funds via 501(c)(4) organizations: Bobby Jindal's America Next, Rick Perry's Americans for Economic Freedom, John Kasich's Balanced Budget Forever, and Jeb Bush's Right to Rise.\n\nIn September 2018, the Supreme Court ruled against a 40-year FEC dark money loophole, requiring \"independent expenditure\" groups disclose donations over a certain amount.\n\n501(c) \"dark money\" groups are distinct from super PACs. While both types of entity can raise and spend unlimited sums of money, super PACs \"must disclose their donors,\" while 501(c) groups \"must not have politics as their primary purpose but don't have to disclose who gives them money.\" However, a single individual or group can create both types of entity and combine their powers, making it difficult to trace the original source of funds. ProPublica explains: \"Say some like-minded people form both a Super-PAC and a nonprofit 501(c)(4). Corporations and individuals could then donate as much as they want to the nonprofit, which isn't required to publicly disclose funders. The nonprofit could then donate as much as it wanted to the Super-PAC, which lists the nonprofit's donation but not the original contributors.\" In at least one high-profile case, a donor to a super PAC kept his name hidden by using an LLC formed for the purpose of hiding their personal name. One super PAC, that originally listed a $250,000 donation from an LLC that no one could find, led to a subsequent filing where the previously \"secret donors\" were revealed.\n\nDuring the 2016 election cycle, \"dark money\" contributions via shell LLCs became increasingly common. The Associated Press, Center for Public Integrity, and Sunlight Foundation all \"flagged dozens of donations of anywhere from $50,000 to $1 million routed through non-disclosing LLCs to super PACs\" backing various presidential candidates, including Marco Rubio, Hillary Clinton, Ted Cruz, John Kasich, Jeb Bush, and Carly Fiorina.\n\nBradley A. Smith, a former FEC chairman who is now with the Center for Competitive Politics, a group that opposes campaign-finance reform, argues that this practice is not problematic, writing that \"it is possibly the making of a campaign contribution in the name of another,\" a violation of existing law.\n\nAccording to Kathy Kiely, managing editor of the Sunlight Foundation, \"untraceable dark money is a preferred tactic of conservatives, while Democrats tend to use traceable super PACs.\"\n\nThe first federal law requiring disclosure of campaign contributions, the Federal Corrupt Practices Act, was passed in 1910. By the late 1970s, virtually all states and the federal government required public disclosure of campaign contributions and information on political donors. Most states and the federal government also required public disclosure of information about donors and amounts spent on independent expenditures, that is, expenditures made independently of a candidate's campaign.\n\nIn January 2010, at least 38 states and the federal government required disclosure for all or some independent expenditures or electioneering communications, for all sponsors.\n\nYet despite disclosure rules, it is possible to spend money without voters knowing the identities of donors before the election. In federal elections, for example, political action committees have the option to choose to file reports on a \"monthly\" or \"quarterly\" basis. This allows funds raised by PACs in the final days of the election to be spent and votes cast before the report is due.\n\nIn addition to PACs, non-profit groups ranging from Planned Parenthood to Crossroads may make expenditures in connection with political races. Since these non-profits are not political committees, as defined in the Federal Election Campaign Act, they have few reporting requirements beyond the amounts of their expenditures. They are not required by law to publicly disclose information on their donors. As a result, voters do not know who gave money to these groups. Reports have disclosed instances where non-profits were managed by close associates, former staff, or a candidate's family member, and this has led to concern that the candidates benefiting from their expenditures would be able to know who donated the funds to the non-profit group, but the public would not.\nFor example, in the 2012 election cycle, one organization, the National Organization for Marriage, or NOM, operated two non-profit arms that received millions in donations from just a few donors. It in turn funded several different PACs. While these PACs had to disclose that NOM contributed the funds, they were not required to disclose who gave money to NOM.\n\nOn March 30, 2012 a U.S. District Court ruled that all groups that spend money on electioneering communications must report all donors that give more than $1,000. However, this ruling was overturned on appeal.\n\nDemocrats in the United States Congress have repeatedly introduced the DISCLOSE Act, proposed legislation to require disclosure of election spending by \"corporations, labor unions, super-PACs, and, most importantly, politically active nonprofits.\" The 2014 version of the DISCLOSE Act would require covered groups, including 501(c)(4), to reveal the source of election-spending donations of $10,000 or more. The bill also targets the use of pass-through and shell corporations to evade disclosure by requiring that such groups disclose the origin of contributions. Senate Republicans, led by their leader Mitch McConnell, \"have blocked earlier iterations of the DISCLOSE Act since 2010.\"\n\nAccording to Columbia Law School's Richard Briffault, disclosure of campaign expenditures, contributions, and donors is intended to deter corruption.\n\nThe Federal Elections Commission, which regulates federal elections, has been unable to control dark money. According to the Center for Public Integrity, FEC commissioners are voting on many fewer enforcement matters than in the past because of \"an overtaxed staff and commissioner disagreement.\" The IRS (rather than the FEC) is responsible for oversight of 501(c)(4) groups. The IRS \"found itself ill-prepared for the groundswell\" of such groups taking and spending unlimited amounts of money for political purposes in the wake of the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\" in 2010. The agency particularly \"struggled to identify which organizations appeared to be spending more than the recommended 50 percent of their annual budgets on political activities—and even to define what 'political spending' was.\" When the IRS began looking at nonprofit spending, it was accused of improper targeting in a 2013 controversy.\n\n\"With the FEC and IRS duly sidelined\" advocates for disclosure turned to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); nine academics from universities across the U.S. filed petitioned the SEC in August 2011 for the agency to \"develop rules to require public companies to disclose to shareholders the use of corporate resources for political activities.\" The petition received over a million comments in the following month, \"a record amount for the SEC, with the overwhelming majority of voters asking for better disclosure.\" According to Lucian Bebchuk, a Harvard professor of law, economics, and finance who helped draft the petition, the request had drawn the support of \"nearly a dozen senators and more than 40 members of the House.\" Under current SEC regulations, public corporations must file a Form 8-K report to publicly announce major events of interest to shareholders. The Sunlight Foundation, a group which advocates for a comprehensive disclosure regime, has proposed that the 8-K rule should be updated to require that aggregate spending of $10,000 on political activities (such as monetary contributions, in-kind contributions, and membership dues or other payments to organizations that engage in political activities) should be disclosed and made publicly available via the 8-K system.\n\nIn 2015, Republicans in Congress successfully pushed for a rider in a 2015 omnibus spending bill that bars the IRS from clarifying the social-welfare tax exemption to combat dark money \"from advocacy groups that claim to be social welfare organizations rather than political committees.\" Other provisions in the 2015 bill bar the SEC from requiring corporations to disclose campaign spending to shareholders, and a ban application of the gift tax to nonprofit donors. The Obama administration opposed these provisions, but President Obama eventually acceded to them in December 2015, with the White House declining to comment. The nonpartisan Campaign Legal Center said in a statement that the dark-money provision ensures \"that the door to secret foreign dollars in U.S. elections remains wide open through secret contributions to these ostensibly 'nonpolitical' groups that run campaign ads without any disclosure of their donors.\"\n\nThe Center for Competitive Politics (CCP), chaired by former FEC chairman Bradley A. Smith, opposes legislation to require the disclosure of dark-money groups, saying: \"Our view is that many people will be driven out of politics if they are forced to disclose their names and their personal information. The purpose of disclosure is to help people monitor the government, not for the government to monitor the people.\" The Center for Competitive Politics views \"dark money\" as a pejorative term, stating that the phrase \"evokes an emotional, fearful reaction\" and contending that \"many of the statistics published on the topic aim to mislead rather than enlighten.\" The CCP maintains that dark money \"comprises a very small percentage of total campaign spending,\" calculating the percent of money spent in federal elections by organizations that did not provide itemized disclosure of their donors as 4.3% in 2012 and 3.7% in 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9771859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9771859", "title": "Disodium ribonucleotides", "text": "Disodium ribonucleotides\n\nDisodium 5'-ribonucleotides, E number E635, is a flavor enhancer which is synergistic with glutamates in creating the taste of umami. It is a mixture of disodium inosinate (IMP) and disodium guanylate (GMP) and is often used where a food already contains natural glutamates (as in meat extract) or added monosodium glutamate (MSG). It is primarily used in flavored noodles, snack foods, chips, crackers, sauces and fast foods. It is produced by combining the sodium salts of the natural compounds guanylic acid (E626) and inosinic acid (E630).\n\nA mixture composing of 98% monosodium glutamate and 2% E635 has four times the flavor enhancing power of monosodium glutamate (MSG) alone.\n\nDisodium 5'-ribonucleotides were first assessed in 1974 by the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives based on all available scientific literature. This assessment resulted in a new specification prepared and an \"ADI Not Specified\". This essentially means that this additive shows no toxicology at any level and acceptable daily limits do not need to be set. The definition is as follows:\n\nIn 1993 the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Committee on Food Additives considered several more studies on this food additive and retained the \"ADI not specified\" safety classification.\n\n"}
{"id": "20772245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20772245", "title": "Embassy of Turkey, Rome", "text": "Embassy of Turkey, Rome\n\nThe Embassy of the Turkey in Rome () is Turkey's diplomatic mission to Italy. It is located at Via Palestro, 28, Rome. \n\nThe current ambassador is Murat Esenli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59055072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59055072", "title": "Ernesto Araújo", "text": "Ernesto Araújo\n\nErnesto Henrique Fraga Araújo (born May 15, 1967) is a Brazilian career diplomat and director of the Itamaraty's United States and Canada department. He was named by President-elect Jair Bolsonaro on 14 November 2018 as the next Minister of Foreign Affairs of Brazil.\n\nAraújo is a career diplomat at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (often called Itamaraty after its headquarters). He is also a writer of three fiction novels. He served in Itamaraty's division of Mercosur affairs from 1991 to 1995, and from 2007 to July 2010 was a deputy chief at the Brazilian Embassy in Ottawa. An anonymous colleague of Araújo at Itamaraty described him as an \"extremely scholarly man\", with profound knowledge of ancient history.\n\nIn a 2017 article published by the International Relations Research Institute (IPRI), Araújo praises U.S. President Donald Trump for his nationalist rhetoric and holds that he is restoring Western values that have been challenged by nihilism, which he believes is the Western enemy that replaced communism. Araújo also maintains a blog entitled \"Metapolitics 17 – Against Globalism\", where he writes that globalism \"is the economic globalization that has been driven by cultural Marxism\" and that is \"essentially anti-human and anti-Christian\". On his blog, Araújo has also claimed that climate change is a \"cultural Marxism\" plot to undermine Western countries in order to support China's growth, and has also lamented the \"criminalisation\" of red meat, oil and heterosexual sex.' \n\nIn a November 2018 press conference, when asked about how he will approach foreign nations as foreign minister, Araújo said there will be no preference towards any nation and that Brazil will have \"excellent relations with all partners to improve partnerships for the benefit of all and, above all, the Brazilian people\".\n\nAraújo was born in Porto Alegre in 1967. He graduated from the University of Brasília, where he studied linguistics and literature, and was trained as a diplomat at the Rio Branco Institute. He is married and has a daughter.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "975798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=975798", "title": "Floor 13 (video game)", "text": "Floor 13 (video game)\n\nFloor 13 is a strategy video game published by Virgin Games in 1991. The game set in the United Kingdom, where the player is the director of a secret governmental agency involved in clandestine domestic operations; the headquarters is hidden on the thirteenth floor of a bank building in London Docklands, hence the title.\n\nThe player takes on the role of the Director General of the \"Department of Agriculture and Fisheries\", a non-existent Executive Agency that conceals a secret police which keeps the government popular by any means necessary. Answering only to the Prime Minister, the Director General has the power to use wiretapping, surveillance, smear tactics, disinformation, burglary, kidnapping, torture, and assassination to keep the government popular with the people.\n\nIn addition to the Director General's regular duties suppressing and removing those who threaten the status quo, there is also a subplot involving his membership in a secret society called \"The Secret Masters of Thoth\". These missions, which are received from a \"Secret Master\" wearing the vestments of an Egyptian pharaoh, involve more bizarre opposition than regular missions; these missions include protecting a fellow member from a Mafia assassination, foiling an attempt to subvert the nation by pod people in key positions, the protection of the Church of the SubGenius from a scandal, and restraining the growing power of the Illuminati, among others.\n\nThe game contains numerous references to real-world groups, trends, scandals, and unusual occurrences that were newsworthy in the 1980s and early 1990s, including the Irish Troubles, Shining Path, the BCCI scandal, and the apparent suicides of Roberto Calvi and Jonathan Moyle.\n\nThe game is menu-driven and presents the player with scenarios through reports viewable in the Director General's office each day. Each scenario represents a potential scandal that may hurt the Government's popularity if not properly handled by the player. The player interacts with the game by issuing orders to eight different departments which represent the capabilities available to the Director General (such as surveillance, assassination, interrogation, or disinformation) to use those capabilities against individuals, locations, or groups involved in each scenario. Once each day's reports are read and any orders have been issued, the player can advance to the next day to see the results of their orders and the progress of scenarios. Each scenario is scripted and will generally always proceed in the same way absent the player's intervention (with minor details such as names and pictures of individuals changed), but some of the results of the player's orders are randomized (for example, assassination attempts may fail or interrogation of individuals may or may not reveal particular information). Each individual or group is rated in the reports as to prominence, power, and orientation towards the government, attributes that will affect the likelihood of success of attempted actions taken against them and the likely results on public opinion. Some scenarios have multiple possible resolutions depending on what means the player chooses to use, and may also generate positive press, raising the Government’s popularity, if handled well.\n\nDuring the course of the game, the player must walk a metaphorical tightrope, with two possible ways to lose the game. Every 21 days, the Prime Minister reviews the opinion polls and will fire the Director General, hereinafter known as DG, if the Government’s approval rating is under 50%. If the player is too severe in using aggressive means that attract unwelcome public attention, firing will be implemented by \"Mr. Garcia,\" an assassin sent by the Prime Minister, giving the DG \"flying lessons\" out of the DG’s office window. If the Government still has the lead in the polls every 21 days, the DG will be given more money and employees to work with. With luck, the DG can temporarily keep his job by spying on and ignoring or discrediting suspects without using more severe and obvious methods such as \"removal\", \"interrogation\" or \"heavy assault\"; however, if the player is clumsy or blatant, the Prime Minister will increasingly threaten and then order a flying lesson to be given to the DG. The last Director General (jokingly named after Richard Branson, the owner of the Virgin Group) suffered from a severe case of defenestration at the hands of Mr. Garcia, and the same will happen to the new DG if he gets too far out of line.\n\nIf the DG somehow manages to avoid being fired, out of a window or otherwise, then the game has two possible successful endings. if the player has successfully navigated through every scandal encountered for an entire year while keeping the approval rating above 50%, the Government realizes that the player knows too much and appoints him or her Prime Minister; with a final note to \"enjoy it while it lasts\". The other ending involves successfully completing all seven Secret Master missions; the player is anointed the new head of the Secret Masters of Thoth and the face of the character is shown. The final note of this ending: \"Was it worth it?\"\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\"s Charles Ardai called \"Floor 13\" \"the most unpleasant espionage game ever made\", comparing it to a James Bond fan's reaction to \"Casino Royale\" (\"It is simply handled poorly\"). Beyond disliking the KGB or Gestapo-like \"loathsome secret police activity\" the game depicted, he wrote of the gameplay that \"Hannah Arendt could not have conceived of more banal evil. \"Floor 13\" turns acts of unmitigated cruelty into bloodless, arm's length bureaucratic functions ... a type and quality of gameplay that was obsolete in 1978\".\n"}
{"id": "2386182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2386182", "title": "Foot voting", "text": "Foot voting\n\nFoot voting is expressing one's preferences through one's actions, by voluntarily participating in or withdrawing from an activity, group, or process; especially, physical migration to leave a situation one does not like, or to move to a situation one regards as more beneficial. People who engage in foot voting are said to \"vote with their feet\".\n\nLegal scholar Ilya Somin has described foot voting as \"a tool for enhancing political freedom: the ability of the people to choose the political regime under which they wish to live\". Communist leader Vladimir Lenin commented, \"They voted with their feet,\" regarding Russian soldiers deserting the army of the Tsar. The concept has also been associated with Charles Tiebout, who pioneered the concept (although he did not use the \"term\" \"foot voting\") in a 1956 paper, and with Ronald Reagan, who advocated migration between states of the USA as a solution to unsatisfactory local conditions.\n\nLegal scholar Ilya Somin has argued that foot voting requires far less information (on the part of the citizens engaging in it) to be exercised effectively than does literal voting at the ballot box; that foot voters are more strongly motivated to acquire relevant information than are ballot-box voters; and that decentralized federalism promotes the welfare of citizens because it facilitates foot voting. Somin has also used foot voting to make a case for changes in international law to allow easier migration across international borders. Legal scholars Roderick M. Hills, Jr., and Shitong Qiao have used China as a case study to argue that foot voting is ineffective unless meaningful ballot-box voting is also in place. Somin has rebutted this critique.\n\nModels from theoretical biology have been applied to elucidate the causal relationships between foot voting and the dissemination of human cultural characteristics.\n\n"}
{"id": "27562786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27562786", "title": "Goddess of Democracy (Hong Kong)", "text": "Goddess of Democracy (Hong Kong)\n\nHong Kong's Goddess of Democracy is a 6.4-metre faux bronze statue sculpted by Chen Weiming, inspired by the original 10-metre tall \"Goddess of Democracy\". The original foam and papier-mâché statue was erected by the Chinese pro-democracy movement in Tiananmen Square at the end of May 1989, and destroyed by soldiers clearing the protesters from Tiananmen square on June 4, 1989.\n\nThree successive political controversies surrounded the statue in 2010 in the backdrop to the twenty-first anniversary of the suppression of the Tiananmen pro-democracy movement. Firstly, it was seized by the Hong Kong police at a street rally at the public open space in Times Square, Causeway Bay on the grounds that the display violated safety regulations, which was, according to the protesters, a trumped up charge. Secondly, the sculptor was denied entry into Hong Kong on 2 June, when he journeyed to Hong Kong to examine the sculpture for possible damage whilst in police custody. Thirdly, the erection of the statue on the campus of the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK) was denied by university authorities, to the ire of the student leadership. The various controversies surrounding the statue reportedly increased the number of people attending the annual 4 June vigil in Hong Kong to historical highs.\n\nSince the record turnout for the anniversary vigil, and under pressure from students, the Chinese University administration acquiesced in allowing the statue a 'temporary home' near the Chinese University exit of the MTR University Station.\n\nThe original \"Goddess of Democracy\" statue has become an icon of liberty and a symbol of the free speech and democracy movements. The Chinese government has tried to distance itself from any discussions about the original statue or about the Tiananmen Square protests, and in the case of the Victims of Communism Memorial it called the building of a replica an \"attempt to defame China.\" Several replicas of the statue have been erected worldwide to commemorate the events of 1989.\nAs no discussion about or mention of the 1989 protests is tolerated in mainland China, and because China has publicly embraced the one country, two systems model of governance for Hong Kong, the annual 4 June observance – a tradition since 1989 – has continued after the transfer of sovereignty from Britain to China. Also, this 6.4-metre statue sculpted by US-resident Chen Weiming is the only 'Goddess of Democracy' to find a home on Chinese soil.\n\nThe statue was sculpted of an imitated copper material, has been exhibited in the front of the United States Congress in the American capital after its completion in 2008. Another work of the sculptor, a relief measuring 6.4 m wide by 3.2 m high entitled \"Tiananmen Massacre\" completed in June 2009, joined the statue in Hong Kong in 2010.\n\nOn 29 May 2010, Hong Kong police seized a statue and a six-metre-long relief – named 天安門大屠殺 (\"Tiananmen Massacre\") – the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of Patriotic Democratic Movements in China (the Alliance) erected in Times Square ahead of the 21st anniversary of 6 June Tiananmen Square protest; organisers were arrested for lacking a license to organise \"public entertainment\". A second statue was erected following the anniversary march to commemorate 4 June pro-democracy movement, but was also seized by police citing the same Places of Public Entertainment Ordinance. Thirteen people who had been standing guard over the statue were arrested by police. Both statues were replicas of the 1989 Tiananmen Square statue – one statue was 6.4-metre bronze and the other a 2.2 m rendering in white plastic.\nThe seizures were controversial. Although the management of Times Square said it preferred activities without political elements, it had not complained before police intervened. The police force said it was not responsible for enforcing the public entertainment law, so it had no statistics concerning it; the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department said only seven prosecutions had been made under the law since the beginning of last year. A government spokesman said that the art pieces would be returned \"under condition that the police's relevant requirements will be followed.\" The Leisure and Cultural Services Department stipulated insurance and approval from registered engineers to guarantee that any object taller than 1.7 metres used on 4 June met safety standards. Activists refused the pre-conditions, and Alliance Deputy chairman Lee Cheuk-yan threatened that North Point police station, where the pieces were being held, would be surrounded at 6 pm on 3 June by citizens demanding their release. After the statues and activists were hauled away, the Alliance displayed a 4.5-metre painting of the Goddess of Democracy in Times Square; several activists dressed like the statue.\n\n\"Apple Daily\" reported that similar observances with props were held at Times Square the previous year, and passed without police harassment. The police said that they had acted on a request from the Environment Department on 29 May; the Home Affairs Bureau said it was not notified ahead of the action. After several hours of negotiations with leaders of the Alliance, Police released the statues on 1 June notwithstanding activists' refusal to undertake not to display the statues within the vicinity of Times Square again. The police released it as 'a goodwill gesture', saying that they understood the organisers' need to have the statue set up for the vigil in the evening of 4 June; Loyalist former President of LegCo, Rita Fan, citing legal experts, said the unprecedented action of the police was improper. However, Police defended their action, saying the force had handled the situation, including the return of the art pieces, in a \"lawful, reasonable, and sensible manner\".\n\nCivil rights groups and Pan-democrats reacted angrily to the seizure, warning that freedom of expression was under threat; Chinese Human Rights Defenders called the government actions \"an unprecedented act of interference with the territory's commemorative activities.\" Public anger over the seizures, and fears of political repression, were widely cited as a direct cause for the record 150,000 participants (or 113,000 according to the police) to attend 4 June vigil. Political commentator Michael Chugani said that the police's reason for seizing two replica Goddess of Democracy statues was unconvincing, and that the public had a right to know from how far up the command chain the heavy-handed order came. He said that this challenge to free expression in Hong Kong should not be conflated with the Tiananmen issue. The LegCo Food Safety and Environmental Health Committee of LegCo called an extraordinary meeting for 21 June, the FEHD and the Home Affairs Bureau were asked to be present to account for their actions, their reasons, and the identity of the chief decision-maker for the confiscations. Although health minister York Chow said the Food and Environmental Hygiene Department had \"received information\" from an undisclosed source that people were breaking the law in Times Square, departmental director, Cheuk Wing-hing, reported to the LegCo panel that he had given the order, acting on news reports.\nUpon hearing that his works had been seized by police, the sculptor decided to go to Hong Kong on his own initiative to seek an explanation from the government, and to examine the sculpture for possible damage whilst in police custody; he boarded a plane from Los Angeles on 31 May, but was refused entry into Hong Kong. Chen, who has visited Hong Kong twice before, had arrived at the airport on the night of 1 June. Democratic Party legislator James To acted as Chen's lawyer during his two-hour interrogation by the authorities. To said Immigration officials questioned Chen about his visit, and summarily deported him for refusing to sign a document saying he agreed to leave. Although Immigration officers told To during the interrogation that \"no decision had been made,\" To said he was informed 15 minutes after leaving (at 3 am) that Chen would be repatriated. To said that Chen was hurriedly put on a plane before an appeal could be launched: \"I requested the legal [expulsion] order to be faxed from the immigration office [so that I could respond]. Before I received the document at 9.50 am, I was told at 9.40 am Chen was on the plane.\" James To decried the \"dirty tricks\" employed, and said that people were very annoyed that Hong Kong was denying \"a very humble sculptor\" entry for political reasons.\nChen said the Hong Kong government's denial of his entry was an edict of the central government in Beijing. He continued: \"The confiscation of my statue was due to the sensitivity of history that happened 21 years ago, which was reflected in my sculpture.\" Chen's wife said that her husband had gone to Hong Kong to get an explanation from the government, and admitted that he considered he was testing to see if the Hong Kong Basic Law was still being upheld, and said she was disappointed that Hong Kong had changed so much in just 13 years. The immigration department issued a statement saying it would not comment on individual cases, and that it \"handles all entry applications in accordance with the law and prevailing policies and having due regard to individual circumstances\". Secretary for Security Ambrose Lee denied that the government had a blacklist: \"The Immigration Department works in accordance with established policies and laws of Hong Kong. It has to take into account the interests of Hong Kong when deciding who can come and who cannot come.\n\nThe administrative and planning committee of the Chinese University of Hong Kong convened an emergency meeting for 1 June after receiving an application from the CUHK student union on 29 May to permanently locate a statue on campus. The meeting was chaired by incumbent vice-chancellor Lawrence Lau. The next day, the university announced its decision not to grant the request; the University said it should not align itself with the actions or activities of a political nature that may compromise its political neutrality. However, students were prepared for a stand-off against the University, saying they would ensure the statues were accommodated on campus \"at all costs\". University's staff and students' unions accused the committee of self-censorship. The staff union said: \"As an institution of higher learning dedicated to the pursuit of knowledge and truth, the Chinese University should maintain so-called ‘neutrality’ by facing historical facts bravely\". Student union president Eric Lai also accused the administration of hypocrisy, citing that university president Lawrence Lau lacked neutrality because he served on advisory bodies for the Hong Kong and central governments. \n\nLai told a crowd of 2,000 people that the university officials should apologise for their opposition of the art display. On 4 June, backed by storms of protest, the university capitulated to the students' demands for the statue to be allowed on campus. The Alliance organised a transport truck and the delivery was escorted by police forces. The students themselves then raised it on campus.\n\nVice-chancellor designate Joseph Sung, who was out of town, but was consulted on the vote, admitted that it was the biggest political storm in 21 years. He said he was opposed to invoking political neutrality as the reason for refusal, and that others shared that view. He added that the management team was \"immature\" and \"inexperienced\" in handling the incident, and pledged improved communication and dialogue with students on the future of the statue when he takes up the post next month. An editorial in \"The Standard\" criticised the board's naivety in not anticipating the reaction from students and politicians. It was also highly critical that Sung had sought to distance himself from the decision with such a \"lame excuse\". Following Sung's remarks, outgoing vice-chancellor Lawrence Lau defended the committee's decision as \"collective and unanimous\", seemingly at odds with Sung's assertion the previous day that there were dissenting voices to the ban. He also disagreed with Sung's view that the decision taken was 'immature and inexperienced', as the matter had received 'detailed consideration'. The University attempted to soften the rift at the top with a statement from Sung that he acknowledged and agreed with the stance in the statement of rejecting the application, issued on 2 June but only \"had different views on the wording.\" \"Apple Daily\" commented that the disquiet among board members over Sung's comments forced a hasty retraction; it suggested his lack of management's support, the result of internal politics and the power base cultivated by Lau, did not bode well for his authority. The students union pointed out to inconsistencies in the respective accounts of Lau and Sung, and said the two professors should have communicated to reach a consensus; Lau's reply \"failed to explain why the school used political neutrality as a reason to reject the statue.\" The union said it had requested a meeting with the dean of students on Monday to seek talks with the governance team, but the request was rejected as the team had to deal with the public relations matters.\n\nOn the evening of 5 October 2014, protesters erected an umbrella-carrying male version of the \"Goddess\" at Tamar Square to represent the Umbrella Revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "3480694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3480694", "title": "Golf property", "text": "Golf property\n\nThe term golf property is used to describe a niche in the property market: residential real estate linked to a golf course. Golf property can be in the ownership of the golf course or in proximity to the golf course. The idea of combining the design of a golf course with a subdivision housing property originated in the USA and is now found in many parts of the world.\n\nIn the United States, there are over 2,000 golf courses with surrounding residential properties. Homes, townhouses, and condos make up the majority of golf properties in the US. In recent years, the concept has gone global with golf communities stretching from Dubai to Australia. Legendary golfers such as Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer, and Greg Norman have played a key role in the increased rate of development through partnership with national and global home builders including Lennar, Toll Brothers, and others.\n"}
{"id": "42942581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42942581", "title": "Governor of Laguna", "text": "Governor of Laguna\n\nThe Governor of Laguna is the highest political office in the province of Laguna, Philippines.\n\nThe following is the list of governors of Laguna.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20975149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20975149", "title": "HM Prison Perth", "text": "HM Prison Perth\n\nLocated on one site in south east Perth, Scotland, HM Prison Perth is a prison that houses short term adult male prisoners (those prisoners serving under 4 years). A maximum security establishment which also houses fine defaulters and those on remand from the courts of Angus, City of Dundee, Perth and Kinross and the northern part of Fife. There is also a secure unit for Category A prisoners who are serving sentences of up to life imprisonment. The prison has a national unit that houses disruptive prisoners, where intensive staff/prisoner interaction occurs.\n\nThe main building, a half-mile (1 km) south of the city centre beyond the South Inch, was constructed by architect Robert Reid (1774–1856) from 1810-12 to hold French prisoners captured during the Napoleonic Wars. In 1842, the building began service as a civilian prison and today represents Scotland's oldest prison still in use. It comprises five halls (labelled A to C) and has a capacity of 504 prisoners.\n\nA second building, Friarton Hall, which was until 1999 a separate institution known as HM Prison Friarton, lies opposite the southern end of Moncrieffe Island, south southeast of the town centre. This modern building once served to prepare prisoners for open conditions and had a capacity of 89. Friarton closed in early 2010 and is no longer part of HMP Perth, this building was demolished to make way for a new housing estate.\n\nHMP Perth no longer has a D Hall or an E hall. The old C Hall was knocked down in 2006 to make way for a new fit for purpose C Hall which holds 365 prisoners. Jail now holds 700. Perth holds a lot of long term prisoners (4 years or more).\n\nA total of three judicial executions by hanging took place on the gallows at Perth prison during the 20th Century:\n\n\nAs was customary, the bodies of executed prisoners were buried in unmarked graves within the prison walls.\n"}
{"id": "23814085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23814085", "title": "Headage payments", "text": "Headage payments\n\nUnder the EU Common Agricultural Policy, subsidies known as headage payments are paid to producers based on the number of head of a specific type of livestock. Such payments may be contingent upon participation in a supply control program (e.g., limiting the number of livestock on a farm).\n"}
{"id": "8723682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8723682", "title": "House Grey Memorandum", "text": "House Grey Memorandum\n\nThe House-Grey Memorandum was a memorandum prepared by President of the United States Woodrow Wilson's diplomatic emissary to Europe, \"Colonel\" Edward M. House, and the British Foreign Secretary, Sir Edward Grey.\n\nThe memorandum, drafted in memo form by Grey, was an invitation from the U.S. to all those involved in the First World War to participation in a U.S.-sponsored peace convention. President Wilson aimed to have a role at the peace conference in order to curb the big European powers' ambitions. If Germany declined to attend, the U.S. would probably become militarily involved in the European conflict.\n\nWilson \"approved the whole of the agreement\", but added the word 'probably'. Grey showed the Memorandum to the French Ambassador Paul Cambon. Cambon believed that the Memorandum was just an election tactic for Wilson who would be standing again for President that year.\n\nThe British Government, led by Prime Minister H.H. Asquith, vetoed the proposal as neither they, nor their French ally, wanted a return to the \"status quo ante bellum\" but a victory over the German Empire.\n\nConfidential\n22 February 1916.\n\nColonel House told me that President Wilson was ready, on hearing from France and England that the moment was opportune, to propose that a Conference should be summoned to put an end to the war.\n\nShould the Allies accept this proposal, and should Germany refuse it, the United States would probably enter the war against Germany.\n\nColonel House expressed the opinion that, if such a Conference met, it would secure peace on terms not unfavourable to the Allies; and, if it failed to secure peace, the United States would leave the Conference as a belligerent on the side of the Allies, if Germany was unreasonable.\n\nColonel House expressed an opinion decidedly favourable to the restoration of Belgium, the transfer of Alsace and Lorraine to France, and the acquisition by Russia of an outlet to the sea, though he thought that the loss of territory incurred by Germany in one place would have to be compensated to her by concessions to her in other places outside Europe.\n\nIf the Allies delayed accepting the offer of President Wilson, and if, later on, the course of the war was so unfavourable to them that the intervention of the United States would not be effective, the United States would probably disinterest themselves in Europe and look to their own protection in their own way.\n\nI said that I felt the statement, coming from the President of the United States, to be a matter of such importance that I must inform the Prime Minister and my colleagues; but that I could say nothing until it had received their consideration.\n\nThe British Government could, under no circumstances accept or make any proposal except in consultation and agreement with the Allies...\n\n(Initialled 'E.G.' by Sir Edward Grey) Foreign Office.\n\n"}
{"id": "25645171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25645171", "title": "Italian modern and contemporary art", "text": "Italian modern and contemporary art\n\nItalian Contemporary art refers to painting and sculpture in Italy from the early 20th century onwards.\n\nThe founder and most influential personality of Futurism was the Italian writer Filippo Tommaso Marinetti, who launched the movement in his \"Futurist Manifesto\" in 1909.\n\nThe Futurists expressed a loathing of everything old, especially political and artistic tradition. They admired speed, technology, youth and violence, the car, the airplane and the industrial city, all that represented the technological triumph of humanity over nature, and they were passionate nationalists. \nThe Futurists practised in every medium of art, including painting, sculpture, ceramics, graphic design, industrial design, interior design, theatre, film, fashion, textiles, literature, music, architecture and even gastronomy.\n\nThe leading painters of the movement were Umberto Boccioni, Carlo Carrà, Giacomo Balla and Gino Severini. They advocated a \"universal dynamism,\" which was to be directly represented in painting. At first they used the techniques of Divisionism, breaking light and color down into a field of stippled dots and stripes, later adopting the methods of Cubism. In 1912, Boccioni turned to sculpture to translate into three dimensions his Futurist ideas.\n\nAdvocates of war as \"the world's best hygiene,\" Marinetti, Boccioni, and Sant'Elia all volunteered to fight during World War One. The unofficial end of the first wave of Futurism (also known as the Heroic Years) was in 1916 - the same year Boccioni died in the war.\n\nAfter the War, Marinetti revived the movement, seeking to make Futurism the official state art of Fascist Italy. The main expression of Futurism in painting in the 1930s and early 1940s was Aeropainting (\"aeropittura\"), launched in a manifesto of 1929, \"Perspectives of Flight\", signed by Benedetta Cappa, Fortunato Depero, Gerardo Dottori, Fillìa, Marinetti, Enrico Prampolini, Somenzi and Tato. The technology and excitement of flight, directly experienced by most aeropainters, offered aeroplanes and aerial landscape as new subject matter. \nFuturism had depended so much on its energetic promotion by Marinetti that his death in 1944 brought the movement to an end. Its association with Italian Fascism meant that most of its artists were shunned in the post-war years, but it has received scholarly attention in recent decades and a major exhibition was launched to coincide with the centenary in 2009. In 2014, the Solomon R. Guggenheim held a major Futurist retrospective featuring over 300 Futurist pieces spanning all media they worked in.\n\nNovecento Italiano was an Italian artistic movement founded in Milan in 1922 by Anselmo Bucci (1887–1955), Leonardo Dudreville, Achille Funi, Gian Emilio Malerba, Piero Marussig, Ubaldo Oppi and Mario Sironi. Motivated by a post-war “call to order”, they were brought together by Lino Pesaro, a gallery owner interested in modern art, and Margherita Sarfatti, a writer and art critic who worked on Italian dictator Benito Mussolini’s newspaper, \"Il Popolo d'Italia\". Sarfatti was also Mussolini’s mistress.\n\nThe movement was officially launched in 1923 at an exhibition in Milan, with Mussolini as one of the speakers. After being represented at the Venice Biennale of 1924, the group split and was reformed. The new Novecento Italiano staged its first group exhibition in Milan in 1926.\n\nSeveral of the artists were war veterans; Sarfatti had lost a son in the war. The group wished to take on the Italian establishment and create an art associated with the rhetoric of Fascism. The artists supported the Fascist regime and their work became associated with the state propaganda department, although Mussolini reprimanded Sarfatti for using his name and the name of Fascism to promote Novecento.\nThe name of the movement (which means 1900s) was a deliberate reference to Italian art in the 15th and 16th centuries. The group rejected European avant garde art and wished to revive the tradition of large format history painting in the classical manner. It lacked a precise artistic programme and included artists of different styles and temperament, for example, Carrà and Marini. It aimed to promote a renewed yet traditional Italian art. Sironi said, “if we look at the painters of the second half of the 19th century, we find that only the revolutionary were great and that the greatest were the most revolutionary”; the artists of Novecento Italiano “would not imitate the world created by God but would be inspired by it”.\n\nMetaphysical art () is the name of an Italian art movement, created by Giorgio de Chirico and Carlo Carrà. Their dream-like paintings of squares typical of idealized Italian cities, as well as apparently casual juxtapositions of objects, represented a visionary world which engaged most immediately with the unconscious mind, beyond physical reality, hence the name. The metaphysical movement provided significant impetus for the development of Dada and Surrealism.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, Italian sculptors and painters joined the rest of Western Europe in the revitalization of a simpler, more vigorous, less sentimental Classical tradition, that was applied in liturgical as well as decorative and political settings. The leading sculptors included: Libero Andreotti, Arturo Martini, Giacomo Manzù, Nicola Neonato, Pietro Guida, Marcello Mascherini.\n\nThe term Arte Povera was introduced in Italy during the period of upheaval at the end of the 1960s, when artists were taking a radical stance. Artists began attacking the values of established institutions of government, industry, and culture, and even questioning whether art as the private expression of the individual still had an ethical reason to exist. Italian art critic Germano Celant organized two exhibitions in 1967 and 1968, followed by an influential book called \"Arte Povera\", promoting the notion of a revolutionary art, free of convention, the power of structure, and the market place. Although Celant attempted to encompass the radical elements of the entire international scene, the term properly centered on a group of Italian artists who attacked the corporate mentality with an art of unconventional materials and style.\n\nThe most wide-ranging public collection of works from the Arte Povera movement is at the Kunstmuseum Liechtenstein.\n\nTransavantgarde is the Italian version of Neo-expressionism, an art movement that swept through Italy, and the rest of Western Europe, in the late 1970s and 1980s. The term \"transavantgarde\" was coined by the Italian art critic, Achille Bonito Oliva, and literally means \"beyond the avant-garde\". This art movement rejected conceptual art, reintroducing emotion―especially joy―back into painting and sculpture. The artists revived figurative art and symbolism. The principal transavantgarde artists were Sandro Chia, Francesco Clemente, Enzo Cucchi, Nicola de Maria, Mimmo Paladino and Remo Salvadori.\n\nItalian interior design in the 20th century was particularly well-known and grew to the heights of class and sophistication. At first, in the early 20th century, Italian furniture designers struggled to create an equal balance between classical elegance and modern creativity, and at first, Italian interior design in the 1910s and 1920s was very similar to that of French art deco styles, using exotic materials and creating sumptuous furniture. However, Italian art deco reached its pinnacle under Gio Ponti, who made his designs sophisticated, elegant, stylish and refined, but also modern, exotic and creative. In 1926, a new style of furnishing emerged in Italy, known as \"Razionalismo\", or \"Rationalism\". The most successful and famous of the Rationalists were the Gruppo 7, led by Luigi Figini, Gino Pollini and Giuseppe Terragni. There styles used tubular steel and was known as being more plain and simple, and almost Fascist in style after c. 1934. After World War II, however, was the period in which Italy had a true \"avant-garde\" in interior design. With the fall of Fascism, rise of Socialism and the 1946 RIMA exhibition, Italian talents in interior decorating were made evident, and with the Italian economic miracle, Italy saw a growth in industrial production and also mass-made furniture. Yet, the 1960s and 1970s saw Italian interior design reach its pinnacle of stylishness, and by that point, with Pop and post-modern interiors, the phrases \"Bel Designo\" and \"Linea Italiana\" entered the vocabulary of furniture design.\n\nMichelangelo Pistoletto began painting on mirrors in 1962, connecting painting with the constantly changing realities in which the work finds itself. In the later 1960s he began bringing together rags with casts of omnipresent classical statuary of Italy to break down the hierarchies of \"art\" and common things. An art of impoverished materials is certainly one aspect of the definition of \"Arte Povera\". In his 1967 \"Muretto di straci\" (\"Rag Wall\") Pistoletto makes an exotic and opulent tapestry wrapping common bricks in discarded scraps of fabric.\n\nArtists such as Jannis Kounellis and Mario Merz attempted to make the experience of art more immediately real while also more closely connecting the individual to nature.\n\nThe leading sculptors from 1930-40 to 2000 included Marino Marini, Emilio Greco, Pino Pascali, Mario Ceroli, Giovanni e Arnaldo Pomodoro, Umberto Mastroianni, Ettore Colla.\n\nThe leading painters from 1930-40 to 2000 included Alberto Savinio, Giorgio de Chirico, Giorgio Morandi, Alberto Magnelli, Felice Casorati, Roberto Melli, Corrado Cagli, Gianfilippo Usellini, Pietro Annigoni, Renato Guttuso, Lucio Fontana, Giovanni Capogrossi, Enrico Accatino, Antonio Donghi, Oreste Carpi, Fausto Pirandello, Afro Basaldella, Alberto Burri, Mimmo Rotella, Franco Nonnis, Domenico Gnoli, Valerio Adami, Piero Manzoni, Emilio Tadini, Salvatore Provino, Mino Argento.\n\nA new breed of contemporary Italian artist such as Gaspare Manos are developing a more global language that draws on a vast international personal experience of life and culture stretching over several continents and many decades of travel. Such artist think locally and act globally, like Rabarama who has been the first Italian sculptor to collaborate with the Cirque du Soleil. An equivalent in Spain for example is the painter Miquel Barceló.\n\n"}
{"id": "894145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=894145", "title": "Landwirtschaftliche Produktionsgenossenschaft", "text": "Landwirtschaftliche Produktionsgenossenschaft\n\nThe German expression Landwirtschaftliche Produktionsgenossenschaft (English: \"Agricultural Production Cooperative\"), or — more commonly — its acronym LPG was the official designation for large, collectivised farms in East Germany, corresponding to Soviet kolkhoz. \n\nThe collectivisation of private and state owned agricultural land in East Germany was the progression of a policy of food security (at the expense of large scale bourgeois farmers). It began in the years of Soviet occupation (1945–48) as part of the need to govern resources in the Soviet Sector. Beginning with the forced expropriation of all land holdings in excess of 100 ha, land was redistributed in small packets of around 5 to 7 ha to incoming landless refugees driven off lost German territory to the east. These \"Neubauern\" (new farmers) were given limited ownership rights to the land, meaning that they kept it as long as they worked it. In the early 1950s, remaining farmers with largish holdings (60 to 80 ha) were effectively driven out of business through means such as denying access to pooled machinery and by setting production targets that rose exponentially with amount of land owned to levels that were impossible to meet. \n\nAlongside these coercive actions of expropriation, old and new farmers with smaller land holdings were increasingly encouraged to pool resources in a legally constituted cooperative form, the LPG, in which initially just land but later animals and machinery were shared and worked together. These were not \"state-owned\" farms (although a few of these did exist) - land, except as mentioned above, remained legally in private ownership and the LPG, although often dominated by communist party cadres, was a distinct legal entity operating independently as far as was feasible within the constraints of a planned economy. However, from the early 1960s, pressure mounted on remaining independent farmers to join the LPGs and for existing LPGs to merge in more fully collectivised forms. This process, and a drive to increased industrialisation, led in the 1970s to the separation of crop and animal production and the merging of each across villages to form much larger cooperative units in which, for example, one LPG for crop production with perhaps 3000 ha of land would supply feed to two LPGs working in animal production.\n\nFollowing German reunification in 1990, the LPG was no longer a legal form of business and regulations were introduced governing their dissolution and the restructuring of enterprises into other legal forms. Some former LPG members, typically those with a strong family background in independent farming, reclaimed their land and started again as independent farmers building up to a viable farm size through renting. In most cases, however, former members or their children settled for some level of compensation in return for surrendering their membership rights to a smaller core group of former managers who then took over the business in the new form of a limited company (GmbH). This settlement and compensation process was at times fought over and at times accepted with resignation depending often on the amount of wealth to be distributed and on the degree of trust by the general membership and village population in the ability of managers to carry on the enterprise as successful employers. In some cases, an \"eingetragene Genossenschaft\", a form of cooperative farming, persisted as allowed under existing German law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14490660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14490660", "title": "Libia Grueso", "text": "Libia Grueso\n\nLibia Grueso is a social worker and civil rights activist from Buenaventura, Colombia, fighting for civil rights of Afro-Colombian communities. \n\nShe is also co-founder of the \"Process of Black Communities\" (PCN). She managed to secure more than 24,000 km² in territorial rights for the country's black rural communities, and she has been focused on protecting Colombia's Pacific rainforest. Libia Grueso received the Goldman Environmental Prize in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "28180056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28180056", "title": "List of active separatist movements in Europe", "text": "List of active separatist movements in Europe\n\nThis is a list of currently active separatist movements in Europe. Separatism often refers to full political secession, though separatist movements may seek nothing more than greater autonomy or to be recognised as a national minority.\n\nWhat is and is not considered an autonomist or secessionist movement is sometimes contentious. Entries on this list must meet three criteria:\n\nUnder each region listed is one or more of the following:\n\nVarious ethnic groups in Europe are seeking greater autonomy or independence. In the European Union (EU), several of these groups are members of the European Free Alliance (EFA). In some cases, the group seeks to unify into a different state – in cases where this does not involve the creation of a new state entity, this is considered to be irredentism. Analogous irredentist movements are included in the list of active irredentist movements.\n Northern Epirus\n\n\n\n or Flemish Community (the latter includes )\n\n\n Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia\n\n Moravia\n Czech Silesia\n\n\n\n\n French Basque Country\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOccitania\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Abkhazia\n\n Bavaria\n\n\n East Frisia\n\n\n North Rhine-Westphalia, Rhineland-Palatinate\n\n Baden-Württemberg\n\n Emilia-Romagna\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSouthern Italy \n\nNorthern Italy\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n North Kosovo\n\n Polish National-Territorial Region \n\nAlbanian community in Macedonia\n\n\n\n Transnistria\n\n\n\n Frisia\n\n Groningen\n\n\n Upper Silesia\n\n Kashubia\n\nHungarian community in Romania\n\n\n Karelia\n\n\n\nInsurgency in the North Caucasus\n\n\n\n Vojvodina\n\n Sandžak\n\n\n\nSouthern Slovakia:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n Basque Country (autonomous community)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAdditionally, there are a number of almost extinct secessionist or soveranist movements in other autonomous communities and historical territories, e.g. Extremadura and Murcia.\n\n\nLocal secessionist (mostly autonomist) movements include Aranesism, Bercianism, Cartagenism, Majorcanism, Manchego autonomism, Navarrism, Valencian Blaverism and Eastern Andalusian autonomism.\n\n\n\n Canton of Jura or wider Jura region (including the three districts of Bernese Jura and the Laufen District)\n\n\n\n\n\n Subcarpathian Ruthenia\n\n\n\n\n\nNorthern Ireland\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLondon\n\nCanvey Island\n\n\n\nNorth East England or North East Combined Authority area (which excludes Tees Valley)\n\nNorthern Isles\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30553136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30553136", "title": "Local Government Act of Bhutan 2009", "text": "Local Government Act of Bhutan 2009\n\nThe Local Government Act of Bhutan (Dzongkha: འབྲུག་གི་ས་གནས་གཞུངས་སྤྱི་མོ་ཅན་མ་; Wylie:\" 'brug-gi sa-gans-gzhungs can-ma\") was enacted on September 11, 2009, by parliament of Bhutan in order to further implement its program of decentralization and devolution of power and authority. It is the most recent reform of the law on Bhutan's administrative divisions: Dzongkhags, Dungkhags, Gewogs, Chiwogs, and Thromdes (municipalities). The Local Government Act of Bhutan has been slightly amended in 2014.\n\nThe Local Government Act of 2009 establishes local governments in each of the twenty Dzongkhags, each overseen ultimately by the Ministry of Home and Cultural Affairs. The Act tasks all local governments with a variety of objectives, including promoting Gross National Happiness; providing democratic and accountable government; preserving culture and tradition; promoting development; protecting public health; and discharging any other duties specifically created by other law. Local governments are generally headed by a chairperson and a deputy chairperson who lead, represent, and manage their respective bureaucracies, each answering to the body above it and to parliament of Bhutan. All local governments are administrative divisions and are prohibited to make laws, however they are empowered to make rules and regulations consistent with law as established by parliament. Members of all local governments must be between ages 25 and 65, and sit for five-year terms, or until the local government is dissolved. \n\nThe Act establishes Dzongkhag Tshogdu (District Council) as the highest decision making body in the Dzongkhag. The Dzongkhag Tshogdu is composed of the Gup and Mangmi (elected leaders) from each Gewog, one representative from that Dzongkhag Thromde, and one representative from the Dzongkhag Yenlag Thromdes. Dzongkhag Tshogdus are tasked with balancing socio-economic development; promoting business; protecting consumers; coordinating government agency activities; reviewing Gewog regulations and ordinances; and representing the Dzongkhags in national referenda. The Dzongkhag Tshogdus are empowered to enforce rules on health and public safety; to regulate environmental pollution, advertising in regard to environmental aesthetics; to regulate broadcast media in accordance with the Information, Communications, and Media Act; and to regulate gambling. Dzongkhag Tshogdus also bear the responsibility for their own finances. The Dzongkhag Tshogdus also oversee Dzongdags (governors), royal appointees who are the executive of each Dzongkhag. Dzongdags, in turn, are responsible for maintaining law and order, and for enforcing the \"driglam namzha\" laws.\n\nThe analogous body at the Gewog level is the Gewog Tshogde, composed of the Gup and Mangmi, plus five to eight more elected Tshogpas (councilmen). Gewog Tshogdes are, like Dzongkhag Tshogdus, responsible for enforcing rules on public health and safety and tasked with encouraging economic development. Gewog Tshogdes further regulate drinking and irrigation waters, mines, recreational areas, construction, land use, and agricultural activities in relation to the Forest and Nature Conservation Act. Gewog governments formulate five-year development plans, run their own budgets, and raise their own labor for public projects. These budgetary and developmental functions are subject to the approval and review of the Ministry of Finance. Gewog Tshogdes are empowered to levy taxes on land, buildings, cattle, grazing, entertainment, advertisement (other than in newspapers, print, radio, and internet), and anything else designated by parliament.\n\nThe Act of 2009 presents no substantive change from previous law regarding the Dzongkhag Tshogdu, Gewog Tshogde, terms of local offices, and qualifications for office. Subordinate municipal divisions, however, are completely re-written.\n\nUnder the Act of 2009, a senior decision making body is established for some Thromdes (municipalities), the lowest level of administration. This body, called the Thromde Tshogde, is composed of seven to ten elected members and headed by a Thrompon. Every Thromde is classified as one of two types: Dzongkhag Yenlag Thromde and Dzongkhag Thromde; the latter is further subdivided into Class B Thromde and Class A Thromde based on population, development, and economy. Class A, or highest developed, Thromdes are allowed their own elected Thromde Tshogde; Class B Thromdes and Yenlag Thromdes are governed directly by either the Dzongkhag or the Gewog administration. From time to time, Parliament decides the boundaries of Thromde in consultation with the National Land Commission Secretariat and local authorities.\n\nThromde Tshogdes are empowered to regulate advertising, enforce public health and safety rules, and to levy taxes on land, property, property transfer (sales tax) and, \"betterment.\" The municipal governments are also authorized to levy special taxes on vacant and underdeveloped land to encourage development, and to raise and spend money in to promote local economic development. \n\nThe Act of 2009 also codifies procedures for the dissolution of local governments, referenced but unspecified in previous legislation. Votes of confidence may be initiated by local populations when a written appeal convinces the Election Commission of Bhutan that more than half the population desires a poll. When the Commission approves a confidence poll, it is conducted within a month's time in the form of a yes-no question. At least two-thirds of any local population must vote \"no\" in order to dissolve the local government. Local governments, once dissolved, must be reconstituted within ninety days.\n\nThe Act of 2009 further provides a substantive and procedural framework for the roles and responsibilities of local government members, including conducting sessions and other business, voting, and record of proceedings and resolutions. It also mandates transparency and accountability through open sessions, public disclosure of information, and public participation. The Act of 2009 reforms offices within local bureaucracies, establishing secretariats at each level, creating a Thromde Executive Secretary, and allotting each bureaucracy with a staff of civil servants.\n\nIn the Act of 2009, there is no reference whatever to Dungkhags and Chiwogs, sub-dzongkhags and sub-gewogs respectively, recognized up through the previous Act of 2007. Because the Act of 2009 repeals all previous legislation on local governments whether or not it conflicts, the legal status of Chiwogs is reduced to electoral districts, and Dungkhags are retained as judicial districts (Dungkhag Courts) as described in the Constitution of 2008.\n\nThe Local Government Act of 2009 was preceded by the Local Government Act of 2007, the Thromde Act of 2007, the Dzongkhag Yargay Tshogdu Chathrim of 2002, Gewog Yargay Tshogchung Chathrim of 2002, the Bhutan Municipal Act 1999, and other legislation. All previous acts were repealed by the enactment of the Local Government Act of 2009.\n\nUntil 1956, Bhutan had nine provinces headed by the penlops: Byakar (centered in present-day Bumthang), Dukye, Haa, Paro, Punakha, Dagana, Thimphu, Trongsa, and Wangdue Phodrang. Later, the country was reorganized into dzongkhags. In August 1987, the territory of Gasa dzongkhag was divided between Punakha and Thimphu; Chhukha dzongkhag was formed by merging the parts of Samtse, Paro, and Thimphu. In 1992, Gasa dzongkhag was re-established and carved out from Punakha; the same year, Trashi Yangtse dzongkhag was carved out from Trashigang.\n\nThe Acts of 2002 (Dzongkhag Yargay Tshogdu Chathrim and Gewog Yargay Tshogchung Chathrim) established much of the basic legal framework for Dzongkhg and Gewog administration. This framework established offices and terms, election and meeting procedures, functions and regulatory powers, roles and responsibilities, and codes of conduct for local governments comparable to those that were re-codified in subsequent legislation.\n\nThe Local Government Act of 2007 authorized Dungkhags as intermediate divisions between Dzongkhags and Gewogs. These subdivisions were governed by Dungkhag Administration headed by a Dungpa. Under this Act, Gewogs were further subdivided into Chiwogs for Gewog administration. Aside from these legal subdivisions, the law of the Act of 2007 was largely retained, frequently verbatim, by the Act of 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "233373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233373", "title": "Local food", "text": "Local food\n\nLocal food (local food movement or locavore) is a movement of people who prefer to eat foods which are grown or farmed relatively close to the places of sale and preparation. \n\nLocal food movements aim to connect food producers and food consumers in the same geographic region, in order to develop more self-reliant and resilient food networks; improve local economies; or to affect the health, environment, community, or society of a particular place. The term has also been extended to include not only the geographic location of supplier and consumer but can also be \"defined in terms of social and supply chain characteristics.\" For example, local food initiatives often promote sustainable and organic farming practices, although these are not explicitly related to the geographic proximity of producer and consumer.\n\nLocal food represents an alternative to the global food model, a model which often sees food traveling long distances before it reaches the consumer. A local food network involves relationships between food producers, distributors, retailers, and consumers in a particular place, where they work together to increase food security and ensure economic, ecological and social sustainability of a community.\n\nIn the USA, the local food movement has been traced to the creation of the Agricultural Adjustment Act (AAA) of 1933, which spawned today's controversial agricultural subsidies and price supports. The contemporary American movement associated with the term can be traced back to proposed resolutions to the Society for Nutrition Education's 1981 guidelines. These largely unsuccessful resolutions encouraged increased local production to slow farmland loss. The program described \"sustainable diets\" - a term then new to the American public. At the time, the resolutions were met with strong criticism from pro-business institutions, but have had a strong resurgence of backing since 2000.\n\nIn 2008, revisions were made to the United States Farm Bill which put an emphasis on nutrition: \"it provides low-income seniors with vouchers for use at local produce markets, and it added more than $1 billion to the fresh fruit and vegetable program, which serves healthy snacks to 3 million low-income children in schools\".\n\nNo single definition of \"local\" or \"local food systems\" exists. The geographic distances between production and consumption varies within the movement. However, the general public recognizes that \"local\" describes the marketing arrangement (e.g. farmers selling directly to consumers at regional farmers' markets or to schools). There are \"a number of different definitions for local [that] have been used or recorded by researchers assessing local food systems [and] most [are] informed by political or geographic boundaries. Among the more widely circulated and popular defining parameters is the concept of food miles, which has been suggested for policy recommendations.\" The Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008 includes a definition, with \"locally\" and \"regionally\" grouped together and defined as:\n\nIn May 2010 the USDA acknowledged this definition in an informational leaflet.\n\nThe concept of \"local\" is also seen in terms of ecology, where food production is considered from the perspective of a basic ecological unit defined by its climate, soil, watershed, species and local agrisystems, a unit also called an ecoregion or a food shed. Similar to watersheds, food sheds follow the process of where food comes from and where it ends up.\n\nThe term \"local\" is widely understood by the general public as a description of regional distribution of food, though that does not involve a regulation of distance between the farmer, their food and the consumer. It is the consumer's responsibility to conclude how \"local\" the food is.\n\nThe USDA included statistics about the growing local food market in the leaflet released in May 2010. The statistics are as follows: \"Direct-to-consumer marketing amounted to $1.2 billion in current dollar sales in 2007, according to the 2007 Census of Agriculture, compared with $551 million in 1997. Direct-to-consumer sales accounted for 0.4 percent of total agricultural sales in 2007, up from 0.3 percent in 1997. If non-edible products are excluded from total agricultural sales, direct-to-consumer sales accounted for 0.8 percent of agricultural sales in 2007. The number of farmers' markets rose to 5,274 in 2009, up from 2,756 in 1998 and 1,755 in 1994, according to USDA's Agricultural Marketing Service. In 2005, there were 1,144 community-supported agriculture organizations (CSAs) in operation, up from 400 in 2001 and 2 in 1986, according to a study by the nonprofit, nongovernmental organization National Center for Appropriate Technology. In early 2010, estimates exceeded 1,400, but the number could be much larger. The number of farm to school programs, which use local farms as food suppliers for school meals programs, increased to 2,095 in 2009, up from 400 in 2004 and 2 in the 1996-97 school year, according to the National Farm to School Network. Data from the 2005 School Nutrition and Dietary Assessment Survey, sponsored by USDA's Food and Nutrition Service, showed that 14 percent of school districts participated in Farm to School programs, and 16 percent reported having guidelines for purchasing locally grown produce.\"\n\nUsing metrics including some of those cited above, a Vermont-based farm and food advocacy organization, Strolling of the Heifers, publishes the annual Locavore Index, a ranking of the 50 U.S. states plus Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia. In the 2016 Index, the three top-ranking states were Vermont, Maine and Oregon, while the three lowest-ranking states were Nevada, Texas and Florida.\n\nNetworks of local farmers and producers are now collaborating in the UK, Canada and the US to provide online farmers' markets to consumers. This technological change enables more consumers to participate in farmers' markets. This development also allows local farmers and producers to harvest and prepare produce according to orders, and means that farmers are also able to spread the website costs. Consumers have access to a huge inventory of farms and their products, without having to be locked into buying whatever a CSA provides.\n\nWebsites now exist that aim to connect people to local food growers. They often include a map where fruit and vegetable growers can pinpoint their location and advertise their produce.\n\nSupermarket chains also participate in the local food scene. In 2008 Walmart announced plans to invest $400 million in locally grown produce. Other chains, like Wegman's (a 71-store chain across the northeast), have a long and cooperative history with the local food movement. In this chain's case, each store's produce manager oversees the influx of local foods. A recent study led by Miguel Gomez, a professor of Applied Economics and Management at Cornell University, in cooperation with the Atkinson Center for a Sustainable Future, found that in many instances, the supermarket supply chain did much better in terms of food miles and fuel consumption for each pound compared to farmers markets. The study suggests that selling locally grown foods through supermarkets may be more economically viable and sustainable than through farmers' markets.\n\nA \"locavore\" or \"localvore\" (the term is a neologism) is a person interested in eating food that is locally produced, not moved long distances to market. One common – but not universal – definition of \"local\" food is food grown within of its point of purchase or consumption. The locavore movement in the United States and elsewhere was spawned as a result of interest in sustainability and eco-consciousness becoming more prevalent. The word \"locavore\" was the word of the year for 2007 in the \"Oxford American Dictionary\". The suffix \"vore\" comes from the Latin word \"vorare\" (as in \"devour\"), and is used to form nouns indicating what kind of a diet an animal has. This word was the creation of Jessica Prentice of the San Francisco Bay Area at the time of World Environment Day 2005. It may be rendered \"localvore\", depending on regional differences.\n\nMore recently, an \"invasivore\" movement has emerged as a subset of the locavore movement, which encourages the consumption of nonindigenous invasive species with the intent of controlling harmful populations.\n\nLocavores are interested in affecting their community by supporting the local farmers. The locavore movement has been successful in supporting small local farmers. After declining for more than a century, the number of small farms has increased 20% in the past six years, to 1.2 million, according to the Agriculture Department. \nIn the city of Graz (Austria), several restaurants display a sign with a \"Genuss Region\" logo, which refers to the restaurant using ingredients from local sources and a commitment to the traditions of cultivating regional foods.\n\nLaunched in late 2009, North Carolina's 10% campaign is aimed at stimulating economic development, creating jobs and promoting the state's agricultural offerings. The campaign is a partnership between The Center for Environmental Farming Systems (CEFS), with support from N.C. Cooperative Extension and the Golden LEAF Foundation. More than 4,600 individuals and 543 businesses, including 76 restaurants, have signed on to the campaign through the website nc10percent.com, pledging to spend 10 percent of their food budget on locally sourced foods. Participants receive weekly emails prompting them to record how much they have spent on local food that week. Currently the campaign reports that more than $14 million has been recorded by participants. \"The $10 million mark is a true testament to the commitment of our agricultural community and the quality of North Carolina-grown products.\"\n\nThe Center for Environmental Farming Systems estimates that if all North Carolinians allocated 10% of their food expenditures to locally produced food, $3.5 billion would be generated for the state's economy. Brunswick, Cabarrus, Chatham, Guilford, Forsyth, Onslow and Rockingham counties have adopted resolutions in support of the campaign. Stores are advertising local products with buy-local food labels. CEFS' co-director Nancy Creamer explains: \"North Carolina is uniquely positioned to capitalize on the increased consumer demand for locally produced foods\n...Agriculture is the backbone of our economy. The state's climate, soils and coastal resources support production of a wide variety of produce, meats, fish and seafood.\"\n\nUrban environments are known for their food deserts in areas of poverty, and most of the food available is shipped in. Growing Power, Inc. has a mission of \"helping to provide equal access to healthy, high-quality, safe and affordable food for people in all communities\". Several farms in the Madison, Milwaukee, and Chicago area are good agricultural practice (GAP) certified.\n\nThere are a number of reasons why people choose to participate in the locavore lifestyle. Motivations include healthier food, environmental benefits, and economic or community benefits. Many local farmers whom locavores turn to for their source of food use the crop rotation method when producing their organic crops. This method not only aids in reducing the use of pesticides and pollutants, but also keeps the soil in good condition rather than depleting it. Locavores seek out farmers close to where they live, and this significantly reduces the amount of travel time taken for the food to get from the farm to the table. Reducing the travel time makes it possible to transport the crops while they are still fresh, without using chemical preservatives. The combination of local farming techniques and short travel distances makes the food consumed more likely to be organic and fresh, an added benefit.\n\nA community supported agriculture system is extremely beneficial to a community because it \"enables consumers to support local farmers, obtain food that might be fresher than store-bought food, and learn more information from farmers about how the food is grown.\" Furthermore, local eating can support public objectives. It can promote community interaction by fostering relationships between farmers and consumers. Even shopping experiences and interaction at local farmers' markets have public benefits such as \"bonus-incentive or gleaning programs, the hosting of health sessions and dissemination of informational materials, and establishment of an organized central location that facilitates community engagement.\" In fact, farmers' markets inspire more sociable behavior. Studies show that 75% of shoppers at farmers' markets arrived in groups while only 16% of shoppers at supermarkets arrive in groups. Only 9% of customers in chain supermarkets had a social interaction with another customer, and 14% had an interaction with an employee, but at farmers' markets, 63% had an interaction with a fellow shopper, and 42% had an interaction with an employee or farmer. Local food builds community vibrancy and retains local traditions while establishing a local identity through a unique sense of community. Urban gardens as shown in the documentary, \"Urban Roots\" are another solution to creating local food that greatly benefits the community as a whole. These urban gardens create local produce as well as educational and social opportunities.\n\nFood accessibility is a topic that affects everyone in America. Supermarkets tend to carry foods that have been shipped halfway around the world, chemically ripened, and off-season. However, more affluent areas tend to have at least some access to local, organic food. Low-income communities are especially vulnerable to food deserts, areas in which there is little to no access to healthy food. These neighborhoods not only lack healthy food, but are overrun with unhealthy options; \"disadvantaged neighborhoods are often replete with calorie-dense, low-quality food options\", which adds to the obesity crisis rampant in America.\n\nIn America, many low-income areas correlate to highly African-American and Hispanic populations, so in many ways, food deserts tend to continually marginalize these races. These groups are then continually categorized as vulnerable populations. The study conducted by Taylor Eagle et al. gives a strong example between the correlation between socioeconomic class and accessibility to fruits and vegetables. It also exemplifies the prevalence of unhealthy food in more impoverished areas of Michigan cities.\n\nThis study focused on a particular demographic: children in school. The test subjects were 6th grade children and although the focus was on mean income correlating with food consumption, the test site was the cafeteria. Childhood obesity is highly linked to adult obesity so in order to be effective one must target the younger subset. Targeting a younger subset is the best plan because to achieve full growth and reduce their risk of diseases, children must eat healthy into their adolescent years. A cafeteria creates an atmosphere of little choice;. According to Terry Huang, \"schools play a vital and visible role in their communities\". Why is there no better model for food accessibility in these arenas? Children can become a user group for food accessibility, as they are models for the future health of this country. What children choose to eat will affect their food choices at an older age. In other words, what we eat as children is what we will eat as adults unless change is forced at schools. This trend continues even into college, where students play an active role in changing the face of food. College students are of one of the worst demographics of unhealthy eaters and this becomes a target for providing local, natural food access. In all, people in low-income areas and school children are undernourished and overfed. Low-income populations should focus on joining together as a community to ask for these local sources of food as well as educate their peers about the dangers of fast food. School children should also have access to education to begin lifelong healthy-eating habits. This opens up a pocket of opportunity that will not only aid health, but also help build community in diverse areas.\n\nLocal foods are sometimes considered the most climate friendly because the energy needed to store and transport the food is removed from the equation. There is a decrease in greenhouse gases emitted because locally grown goods do not need to be transported across the country, or constantly cooled in large refrigerators. Another benefit of locally grown food is its lower concentration of pollution sources. According to the USDA, more than 335 million tons of manure are produced annually in American farms. In factory farms, this waste is extremely concentrated, and without proper regulation and disposal, the waste pollutes the surrounding areas. The Natural Resource Defense Council even remarks that factory farms have reached a point in which the farms threaten public health. Pollutants from the manure and urine of overcrowded factory farms lead to water and air pollution. Some of these pollutants, such as hydrogen sulfide and various nitrates, are dangerous even at low levels. Factory farms are also considered unsanitary because they place animals in overcrowded conditions in fully enclosed rooms that often become the perfect breeding grounds for diseases. Locally grown foods support free-range or pasture-grazing farming methods, decreasing the need for large factory farms. With fewer factory farms, waste will not be so concentrated and will thus not have such profound effects on the immediate surrounding areas.\n\nGrowing and selling foods locally saves the environment from serious detriments. With local farms, \"food miles\" can essentially be eliminated, which includes the accompanying pollution. There would be no need to establish more expansive industrial farms that contaminate the soil, whereas local farmers are able to preserve soil for sustainability.\n\nA critical objective for any community is to promote investments that serve to increase the economic and social opportunities available for residents. If the United States wishes to sustain current agricultural production in the future, there must be a market for emerging farmers to counter the effects of a collectively aging farmer population. The introduction of farmers' markets into the local economy can directly benefit the lives of all citizens within the community. In a study conducted in the state of Iowa (Hood 2010), it was concluded that the introduction of 152 farmers' markets into the state economy led to the creation of 576 jobs, a $59.4 million increase in output, and a $17.8 million increase in income UCSUSA report.\n\nWhile this is just one state, other studies conducted in different regions have produced similar results on the economic benefit of more local farming on a specific community. Otto's study further reported that each individual farmers' market produced 3.8 new jobs per market. However, these economic developments are not limited to local food markets. Surveys of towns in Oregon, Lev, Brewer, and Stephenson (2003), found that farmers' markets were the primary reason that tourists visited local towns on the weekend. The gross economic effect can be calculated, as in the case of the Crescent City Farmers Market in New Orleans, where this single market contributed over $10 million to the local economy. The potential reauthorization of the Federal Farmers Market Promotion Program led to the creation of thousands of jobs within local economies, and further collective economic growth. The logical conclusion is that with the increase in economic benefits due to local farming, room is created in this ever-expanding industry.\n\nCritics of the local foods movement question the fundamental principles behind the push to eat locally. For example, the concept that fewer \"food miles\" translates to a more sustainable meal has not been supported by major scientific studies. According to a study conducted at Lincoln University in New Zealand: \"As a concept, food miles has gained some traction with the popular press and certain groups overseas. However, this debate which only includes the distance food travels is spurious as it does not consider total energy use especially in the production of the product.\" The locavore movement has been criticized by Dr. Vasile Stănescu, the co-senior editor of the \"Critical Animal Studies\" book series, as being idealistic and for not actually achieving the environmental benefits of the claim that the reduced food miles decreases the amount of gasses emitted. Studies have shown that the amount of gasses saved by local transportation, while existing, does not have a significant enough impact to consider it a benefit.\n\nThe only study to date that directly focuses on whether or not a local diet is more helpful in reducing greenhouse gases was conducted by Christopher L. Weber and H. Scott Matthews at Carnegie-Mellon. They concluded that \"dietary shift can be a more effective means of lowering an average household's food-related climate footprint than ‘buying local’\".\n\nNumerous studies have shown that locally and sustainably grown foods actually release more greenhouse gases than food made in factory farms. The \"Land Degradation\" section of the United Nations report \"Livestock's Long Shadow\" concludes that \"Intensification - in terms of increased productivity both in livestock production and in feed crop agriculture - can reduce greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation\". Nathan Pelletier of Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia found that cattle raised on open pastures release 50% more greenhouse gas emissions than cattle raised in factory farms. Adrian Williams of Cranfield University in England found that free range and organic raised chickens have a 20% greater impact on global warming than chickens raised in factory farm conditions, and organic egg production had a 14% higher impact on the climate than factory farm egg production. Studies such as Christopher Weber's report on food miles have shown that the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions in production far outweighs those in transportation, which implies that locally grown food is actually worse for the environment than food made in factory farms.\n\nWhile locavorism has been promoted as a feasible alternative to modern food production, some believe it might negatively affect the efficiency of production. As technological advances have influenced the amount of output of farms, the productivity of farmers has skyrocketed in the last 70 years. These latter criticisms combine with deeper concerns of food safety, cited on the lines of the historical pattern of economic or food safety inefficiencies of subsistence farming which form the topic of the book \"The Locavore's Dilemma\" by geographer Pierre Desrochers and public policy scholar Hiroko Shimizu.\n\n"}
{"id": "2922219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2922219", "title": "Michael X", "text": "Michael X\n\nMichael X (1933 – 16 May 1975), born Michael de Freitas in Trinidad and Tobago, was a self-styled black revolutionary and civil rights activist in 1960s London. He was also known as Michael Abdul Malik and Abdul Malik. Convicted of murder in 1972, Michael X was executed by hanging in 1975 in Port of Spain's Royal Jail.\n\nMichael de Freitas was born in Trinidad to an \"Obeah-practising black woman from Barbados and an absent Portuguese father from St Kitts\". Encouraged by his mother to pass for white, \"Red Mike\" was a headstrong youth and was expelled from school at the age of 14. In 1957, he immigrated to the United Kingdom, where he settled in London and worked as an enforcer and frontman for the slum landlord Peter Rachman.\n\nBy the mid-1960s he had renamed himself \"Michael X\" and became a well-known exponent of Black Power in London. Writing in \"The Observer\" in 1965, Colin McGlashan called him the \"authentic voice of black bitterness.\"\n\nIn 1965, under the name Abdul Malik, he founded the Racial Adjustment Action Society (RAAS).\n\nIn 1967 he was involved with the counterculture/hippie organisation the London Free School (LFS) through his contact with John \"Hoppy\" Hopkins, which both helped widen the reach of the group, at least in the Notting Hill area, and create problems with local police who disliked his involvement. Michael and the LFS were instrumental in organising the first outdoor Notting Hill Carnival later that year.\n\nLater that year, he became the first non-white person to be charged and imprisoned under the UK's Race Relations Act, which was designed to protect Britain's Black and Asian populations from discrimination. He was sentenced to 12 months in jail for advocating the immediate killing of any white man seen \"laying hands\" on a black woman. He also said \"white men have no soul\".\n\nIn 1969, he became the self-appointed leader of a Black Power commune on Holloway Road, North London, called the \"Black House\". The commune was financed by a young millionaire benefactor, Nigel Samuel. Michael X said, \"They've made me the archbishop of violence in this country. But that 'get a gun' rhetoric is over. We're talking of really building things in the community needed by people in the community. We're keeping a sane approach.\" John Lennon and Yoko Ono donated a bag of their hair to be auctioned for the benefit of the Black House.\n\nIn what the media called \"the slave collar affair\", businessman Marvin Brown was enticed to The Black House, viciously attacked, and made to wear a spiked \"slave\" collar around his neck as Michael X and others threatened him in order to extort money. The Black House closed in the autumn of 1970. The two men found guilty of assaulting Marvin Brown were imprisoned for 18 months.\n\nThe Black House burned down in mysterious circumstances, and soon Michael X and four colleagues were arrested for extortion. His bail was paid by John Lennon in January 1971.\n\nIn February 1971, he fled to his native Trinidad, where he started an agricultural commune devoted to Black empowerment east of the capital, Port of Spain. \"The only politics I ever understand is the politics of revolution,\" he told the \"Trinidad Express\". \"The politics of change, the politics of a completely new system.\" He began another commune, also called the Black House, which, in February 1972, also burned down.\n\nPolice who had come to the commune to investigate the fire discovered the bodies of Joseph Skerritt and Gale Benson, members of the commune. They had been hacked to death and separately buried in shallow graves. Benson, who had been going under the name Hale Kimga, was the daughter of Conservative MP Leonard F. Plugge. She had met Michael X through her relationship with Malcolm X's cousin Hakim Jamal.\n\nMichael X fled to Guyana a few days later and was captured there. He was charged with the murder of Skerritt and Benson, but was never tried for the latter crime. A witness at his trial claimed that Skerritt was a member of Malik's \"Black Liberation Army\" and had been killed by him because he refused to obey orders to attack a local police station. Malik was found guilty and sentenced to death. The Save Malik Committee, whose members included Angela Davis, Dick Gregory, Kate Millet and others, including the well known \"radical lawyer\" William Kunstler, who was paid by John Lennon, pleaded for clemency, but Malik was hanged in 1975.\n\nOther members of the group were tried for Benson's murder. It was asserted that Benson had been shown an open grave and was then pushed in it and hacked at by Michael X with a machete on her neck.\n\nUnder the name Michael Abdul Malik, Michael X was the author of \"From Michael Freitas to Michael X\" (André Deutsch, 1968). It was ghost written by John Stevenson. Michael X also left behind fragments of a novel about a romantic black hero who wins the abject admiration of the narrator, a young English woman named Lena Boyd-Richardson. Inspecting the hero's bookshelf, Lena Boyd-Richardson is impressed at finding \"Salammbô\": \"I discover that he not only have (sic) the books but actually reads and understands them I was absolutely bowld (sic), litterally. I took a seat, and gazed upon this marvel, Mike.\"\n\nMichael X is the subject of the essay \"Michael X and the Black Power Killings in Trinidad\" by V. S. Naipaul, collected in \"The Return of Eva Perón and the Killings in Trinidad\" (1980), and is also believed to be the model for the fictional character Jimmy Ahmed in Naipaul's 1975 novel \"Guerrillas\".\n\nMichael X is a character in \"The Bank Job\" (2008), a dramatisation of a real-life bank robbery in 1971. The film claims that Michael X was in possession of indecent photographs of Princess Margaret and used them to avoid criminal prosecution by threatening to publish them. He was played by Peter de Jersey.\n\nMichael X and his trial are the subject of a chapter in Geoffrey Robertson's legal memoir \"The Justice Game\" (1998).\n\nMichael X plays a part in \"Make Believe: A True Story\" (1993), a memoir by Diana Athill.\n\n\"Michael X\" is the eponymous title of a play, by the writer Vanessa Walters, that takes the form of a 1960s Black Power rally and was performed at The Tabernacle Theatre, Powis Square, London W11 (Notting Hill), in November 2008.\n\nMichael X (played by Adrian Lester) is portrayed in a scene opposite Jimi Hendrix in the film \"All Is By My Side\" based on Jimi's early years in the music industry.\n\nMuhammad Ali gave his bloody boxing shorts that he wore when he fought Henry Cooper to Michael Abdul Malik, and is referred to as a black militant from Trinidad in \"The Greatest - My Own Story\" by Muhammad Ali and Richard Durham\n\n"}
{"id": "50759146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50759146", "title": "Ministry of Cultural Affairs", "text": "Ministry of Cultural Affairs\n\nThe Ministry of Cultural Affairs (; \"Sanskr̥ti biṣaẏaka mantraṇālaẏa\") is a ministry of the government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh, in charge of national museums and monuments; promoting and protecting the arts (visual, plastic, theatrical, musical, dance, architectural, literary, televisual and cinematographic) in Bangladesh and managing the national archives. The Ministry of Culture is also charged with maintaining the Bengali identity.\n\n"}
{"id": "25646716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25646716", "title": "Ministry of National Defence (East Germany)", "text": "Ministry of National Defence (East Germany)\n\nThe Ministry of National Defense (German: \"Ministerium für Nationale Verteidigung - MfNV\") was the chief administrative arm of the East German National People's Army. The MND was modeled on the Ministry of Defense of the Soviet Union. The headquarters of the Ministry was in Strausberg near East Berlin. The Guard Regiment Hugo Eberlein provided security and guard services to the Ministry. The Ministry also had its own publishing house, Military publishing house of the German Democratic Republic.\n\nThe NVA was administered through the Ministry of National Defense, one of the principal branches of the national government. The ministers of National Defense were:\n\nThe Minister of National Defence was assisted by a colloquium of deputy ministers who were also chiefs of certain key administrations within the ministry.\n\nIn 1987 the deputy ministers and their assignments were as follows: \n\n\nOn January 18, 1956, the People's Chamber (the national legislature) passed a bill creating the NVA and the Ministry of Defense from the Chief Administration of Training of the Ministry of the Interior. This act formally acknowledged the existence of East Germany's armed forces. The NVA incorporated the Kasernierte Volkspolizei or KVP, Sea Police, and Air Police into a single armed force having three branches: ground, naval, and air. The Ministry of Defense was headed by Colonel General (Generaloberst) Willi Stoph, who was also minister of the interior. In 1987 Stoph was chairman of the Council of Ministers and a member of the SED Politburo. General Hoffmann, who was listed as first deputy minister of defense, attended the Soviet General Staff Academy in the mid-1950s and replaced Stoph as defense minister in 1960. Hoffmann held the post until his death in 1985. Concurrent with the establishment of the NVA as a legal entity was a return to public manifestations of German military traditions, with the addition of socialist elements. The training regimen for recruits approximated that of the former Wehrmacht, as did drill and ceremonies. New uniforms, whose cut but not colour (stone grey) were far closer to those of German World War II forces than to Soviet models, were introduced. Only the helmet represented a radical departure from World War II, but here too the design differed from the Soviet model.\n\nThe creation of the NVA addressed both internal and external security problems. Internally the physical appearance of the NVA spoke to the population in terms of their traditional German heritage and differentiated the NVA from the Soviet Army. In theory at least, East German citizens could have pride in their own army. The swift creation of the NVA as a force of more than 120,000 officers and other ranks practicing Prussian-style drill was a dramatic gesture of nationalism that was impossible for the world to ignore.\n\nThe creation of the Ministry of Defense and the NVA seemingly should have been a blow to the authority and prestige of the Ministry of the Interior. The bureaucratic impact of this action was mitigated by permitting Stoph to carry both portfolios for four years. In addition, police activities, both civil and secret, remained under the Ministry of the Interior, as did the Border Police. The Ministry of the Interior established its own Alert Units for the specific function of internal security. The Alert Units were militarily structured, fully motorized units with modern weapons and equipment. Garrisoned and trained in battalion-size units, they were capable of carrying out police tasks and other security functions. They have been used in major disturbances or in civil disasters affecting public order and safety.\n\nDifferentiation between the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of the Interior was still in progress in the 1960s. On issue in this process was the subordination of the Border Police. On September 15, 1961, by order of the National Defense Council, the entire Border Police was transferred to the NVA and redesignated the Border Troops of the NVA. Various explanations for this shift have been offered by different authorities. The official reason stressed improvement in the level of training through closer relationship with the NVA and provision for reinforcement of the Border Troops with other NVA assets. The actual reason probably had more to do with standardization within the Warsaw Pact since similar reorganizations occurred in roughly the same time period in all the non-Soviet Warsaw Pact armies.\n\nThe organization of the East German Ministry of Defense, which closely follows the pattern of the Soviet Ministry of Defense, comprises several administrations and departments, among which there appeared to be a certain amount of overlapping authority. The chiefs of the major administrations and commands concurrently served as deputies to the defense minister.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, its complement of about 4,200 personnel had a military-to-civilian ratio of approximately three to one, in contrast to comparable Western ministries or departments that generally have a much higher proportion of civilian employees. \n\nApproximately 100 Soviet liaison officers also were assigned to the East German ministry.\n\nThe Ministry of National Defense had the following subordinate executive bodies:\n\nThe Headquarters (), was led by the Chief of Staff ().\n\nThe Land Forces Command () was established on 1 December 1972 as a management body created for the land forces. The seat was in Wildpark-West. The Friedrich Engels Guard Regiment provide security and guard services for the Land Forces Command headquarters.\n\nThe Air Force / Air Defense Command () (LSK / LV) was created in 1956 for government air force and air defense. A year later, the administrations for the joint command LSK / LV-based Eggersdorf was established. It was led by the Chief of the Air Force Command / Air Defense ().\n\nPeople's Navy Command () was based in Rostock-Gehlsdorf emerged from the administration of the naval forces. It was created in spring 1957. Following the award of the title \"Volksmarine (People's Navy) on 3 November 1960 and was later renamed the People's Navy Command. It was led by the Chief of the Naval Forces Command/Marine People ().\n\nAfter the subordination of the German Border Police () under the Ministry of National Defense on 15 September 1961, the units were designated as the NVA (Border Troops of the NVA). Once separated, the border troops of the army units were designated as the Border Troops of the GDR (). The Command GDR border troops () was based in Pätz. It was led by the Chief of the GDR border troops command ().\n\nThe Civil Defense Headquarters (), was led by the Head of the Civil Defense Headquarters ().\n\nThe governing bodies still belonged to the Ministry Headquarters, the political headquarters and the areas of Bereiche Rückwärtige Dienste (Rear services) and Technik und Bewaffnung (equipment and armament).\n\nThe Political Headquarters (), was led by the Chief of the Political Administration ().\n\n\nThe Technology and Armament Department (), was led by the Chief of the range equipment and armament ().\n\n\nThe Rear Area Services (), was led by the Chiefs of the area Rear Services ().\n\n\nThe heads of the commands and the other governing bodies were usually also titled Deputy Minister of National Defense.\n\nThe MfNV has concluded agreements with almost all other ministries of the so-called GDR secret agreements. This agreement marked the prominent position of the NVA. Content of these agreements was the preferred treatment of the army in the food issue, to entering and use of forests and open spaces in the GDR.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26349710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26349710", "title": "NHS Evidence", "text": "NHS Evidence\n\nNHS Evidence is a government funded resource of information, research, evidence and best practice guidance for health, social care and public health.\n\nIt is aimed at those working in health and social care, and is designed to help students, specialists, clinicians, managers, commissioners and health providers make better and quicker evidence based decisions.\nThe service, which is provided by the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, was set up in April 2009 as part of Lord Darzi's strategy for the future of the NHS, High Quality Care for All, which identified a clear need for better access to information in order for NHS staff to deliver the highest quality care. Further to a Freedom of Information request it was revealed that in 2009/10 it ran on a budget of £19,433,000 raising to £24,438,000 in 2010/11.\n\nNHS Evidence allows users to search over 100 health and social care databases simultaneously, including The Cochrane Library, British National Formulary and the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. It comprises an increasing number of 'specialist collections', covering a diversity of topics, from clinical areas such as 'Cancer' or 'Eyes and Vision', to issues relating to 'cross-cutting' topics relating to specific user groups, such as 'ethnicity' with information about the particular healthcare needs of minority ethnic groups, and evidence about inequalities in health attributable to cultural, religious or 'racial' differences. Other 'crosscutting' topics include 'later life' and child health, while more specialist collections relate to differing professional or management areas of health care, such as commissioning, screening, and complementary medicines. All of these specialist collections are led by specialists in their fields, and apply carefully agreed quality assurance controls before accessioning resources for general use.\n\nInformation available via NHS Evidence includes clinical and public health guidance, government policy, patient information, drug information, systematic reviews, primary research and grey literature.\n\nThere are six 'lots', or categories of data available, defined by the NICE Framework. These are:\n\nNHS Evidence – Quality and Productivity\nhelps the NHS identify efficiency savings that can be made while continuing to deliver high quality care.\nLinking quality and productivity is an important challenge for the NHS if it is to reach its target of £15–20 billion in efficiency savings by 2014.\nThe Department of Health's Quality and Productivity project has been designed to help NHS organisations make the necessary savings without compromising quality of care and services. NHS Evidence – Quality and Productivity is part of this initiative. It gives access to evidence on how to improve quality and productivity within the NHS, including examples of innovative local practices.\nContent covers best available evidence, tools and techniques, measurement, case-studies and policy on all aspects of innovation and improvement.\nNHS Evidence – Quality and Productivity, provides users with real examples of how staff are improving quality and productivity\nacross the NHS.\n\nNHS Evidence Accreditation\nOrganisations achieving high standards in producing guidance can be identified on NHS Evidence by a seal of approval called an Accreditation Mark.\nDecisions about which organisations are awarded the Accreditation Mark are taken by an independent advisory committee and are based on rigorous analysis and assessment.\nOrganisations are awarded the Accreditation Mark for three years and their performance is reviewed regularly.\n\nEyes on Evidence is a free monthly e-bulletin which provides updates on major new evidence as it emerges with\nan explanation about what it means for current practice.\n\nThe Norwegian Electronic Health Library (Helsebiblioteket.no) is a similar public website for health professionals and students.\n\n"}
{"id": "41495147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41495147", "title": "NHS dentistry", "text": "NHS dentistry\n\nDentistry provided by the National Health Service (NHS) in the United Kingdom was originally intended to ensure that dental treatment is available to the whole population. However, for dentistry it has been limited centrally for some time, struggling to even see 55% of the population in a one-year period. Unlike medical care, charges are made to most people. In England, a new but experimental target system of UDAs was imposed by government on 1 April 2006, but by 2008 the Parliamentary Health Select Committee investigation found the UDAs were unfit for purpose. Dentists act as private contractors to the NHS, which, simply put, means the dentists buy the building and equip the surgery, hire all the staff and pay all of the running costs including wages, materials and insurances, to provide an NHS dental service.\n\nAccording to NHS Choices \"All the treatment that your dentist believes is necessary to achieve and maintain good oral health is available on the NHS. This means that the NHS provides any treatment you need to keep your mouth, teeth and gums healthy and free of pain\". This includes if clinically necessary: dentures, crowns and bridges, orthodontistry, root canal treatment, scaling and polishing, white fillings, Implants, Emergency Dental Treatments, Children Treatments.\n\nMany dentists who provide NHS services also offer additional services, such as hygienists, for payment. A dentist is allowed to refuse to provide treatment under the NHS and then offer to perform the same treatment privately. However, this practice is far from clear cut.\n\nA revised contract is under discussion in 2013 with greater emphasis on oral health and quality indicators. The British Dental Association is keen to see reform, having campaigned vigorously against the \"flawed, target-driven arrangements\" introduced in 2006 that are currently in place.\n\nFollowing the government's introduction of a new contract in April 2006, NHS dentistry is not as widely available as it once was, with 900,000 fewer patients seeing an NHS dentist in 2008 and 300,000 losing their NHS dentist in a single month. This has forced many patients to pay much higher sums for private treatment, and has been criticised by the British Dental Association as having \"failed to improve access to care for patients and failed to allow dentists to provide the modern, preventive care they want to deliver\".\n\nBen Bradshaw when Minister for Health was questioned on Radio 4 in 2007 about the shortfall in NHS dentistry leading to patients unable to access NHS dentists and even resorting to pulling their own teeth out. He suggested that those needing urgent treatment should go to see their GP, prompting the British Medical Association to observe that a General Practitioner was no substitute for a qualified dentist.\n\nThere are repeated stories of shortage of NHS dental services, especially in remote areas such as Skye and Cornwall. Lack of access to emergency dentistry is often seen as contributing to overcrowding in hospital accident & emergency departments. In May 2007, there was a backlog of 14,000 people unable to register with an NHS dentist in Cornwall. Waiting times for routine appointments were up to eighteen months.\nIn October 2018 the chairman of general dental practice at the British Dental Association claimed that there was a hostile environment for dental patients. 380,000 patients a year with dental problems were approaching general practitioners, who were not equipped to help. Accessible public-facing information on where to seek care for dental problems was required.\n\nInitially NHS dentistry was free at the time of use but charges to patients were introduced in 1951 and have been increased from time to time. Charges vary in different countries of the UK.\n\n\nIt was announced in March 2016 that charges in England would rise by 5% in April 2016 and a further 5% in April 2017. The British Dental Association complained: \"This unprecedented hike in dental charges will only serve to discourage the patients that are most in need of care.\"\n\nDentists are paid in \"Units of Dental Activity\". Typical values for UDAs are £20-35, and they are paid 1 UDA for a band 1 course of treatment, 3 for a band 2 course of treatment, and 12 for a band 3 course of treatment. Patient charges are deducted from these values. For many treatments, the rate of pay is below the cost of providing the treatment to a modern standard, and as a result, many dentists will refer patients for any unprofitable services.\n\nIn Scotland and Northern Ireland, the system works differently and relies upon a mix of capitation payments alongside Item of Service charges. An examination in Scotland is free of charge to the patient, but pays the dentist £8.10. For most other items of treatment, the patient charge is set at 80% of the total fee. The fees paid are approximately one third to one half of what they were in 1948, once adjusted for inflation.\n\nSome groups of people are exempt for charges for dental treatment:\n\nFrom 2013 to 2015, 632 patients in Oldham who were in receipt of Universal Credit and therefore entitled to free prescriptions were issued with penalty charge notices, totalling £71,000, because the NHS forms had not been updated to reflect the introduction of Universal Credit. Patients with learning difficulties and with dementia have been issued with penalties because they made honest mistakes ticking the wrong box in complex forms. This has caused stress for the patients and extra work for the dentists trying to sort out the problem. 90% of fines are overturned on appeal. Poor people are deterred from seeking dental care that they need because they fear being fined. Dental visits by poor people fell 23% during the four years to 2018.\n\nSchool dental services provided by local authorities developed slowly after 1907 when the first service of this kind was set up in Cambridge. The Royal Commission on the National Health Service in 1979 reported that local authorities had a statutory duty to make comprehensive dental treatment available to pupils since 1953, but undermanning had prevented the school dental service from delivering it. In 1968 37% of the population of England and Wales over the age of 16 had no natural teeth. In Scotland 44% of the population over 15 in 1972 had none.\n\nThere were about 14,000 general dental practitioners doing NHS work in the UK in 1977, employing about 20,000 dental surgery assistants, and 1145 dental hygienists. 46% of adults with some of their own teeth in England and Wales regularly attended a dentist in 1978 compared with 40% in 1968. In 1979 there were about 400 dental consultants in hospital services, mostly based in the 17 undergraduate dental hospitals and one post-graduate institute.\n\nAt the inception of the NHS in 1948 there were 3 branches of dental service, and these 3 branches still exist today, although the organisation of services in England has changed much more than in the rest of the UK:\n\n\nThe contract between the NHS and dentists determines what work is provided for under the NHS, payments to dentists, and charges to patients. The contract has been revised several times, covering more than just charges and prices. A contract introduced in 2006 was said by the British Dental Association in 2016 to be not fit for purpose, rewarding dentists for meeting government targets for treatment and repair, but not for improving patients' oral health.\n\nIn June 2015 The consumer group Which? contacted 500 dental surgeries listed on the official NHS Choices website and found that 31% of them were refusing to take on any new NHS patients. They called for the Competition and Markets Authority to intervene to ensure dentists were complying with rules. The British Dental Health Foundation. HealthWatch England said that in some parts of England only a fifth of surgeries were accepting new NHS patients. The chair of the British Dental Association, said the “byzantine system” had failed dentists and patients.\n\nThe BDA said that the 2006 contract did not meet its purpose of improving access to NHS dentistry and concentrating on prevention, and had been criticised by patient groups, government, the Health Select Committee and the Chief Dental Officers for England and Wales.\n\nIn January 2016, more than 400 dentists signed a letter arguing that the NHS dental system in England is unfit for purpose and are whistleblowing publicly, to warn and expose the centralised failings to develop a proper national dental health and prevention strategy.\n\n"}
{"id": "22810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22810", "title": "Orange Alternative", "text": "Orange Alternative\n\nThe Orange Alternative (Polish: \"Pomarańczowa Alternatywa\") is a Polish anti-communist underground movement, started in Wrocław, a city in south-west Poland and led by Waldemar Fydrych (sometimes misspelled as Frydrych), commonly known as \"Major (Commander of Festung Breslau)\" in the 1980s. Its main purpose was to offer a wider group of citizens an alternative way of opposition against the authoritarian regime by means of a peaceful protest that used absurd and nonsensical elements.\n\nBy doing this, members of the Orange Alternative could not be arrested by the police for opposition to the regime without the authorities becoming a laughing stock. The Orange Alternative has been viewed as part of the broader Solidarity movement. Academics Dennis Bos and Marjolein 't Hart have asserted it was the most effective of all Solidarity's factions in bringing about the movement's success.\n\nInitially it painted ridiculous graffiti of dwarves on paint spots covering up anti-government slogans on city walls. Afterwards, beginning with 1985 through 1990, it organized a series of more than sixty happenings in several Polish cities, including Wrocław, Warsaw, Łódź, Lublin, and Tomaszów Mazowiecki.\n\nIt was the most picturesque element of Polish opposition to Stalinist authoritarianism. It suspended activity in 1989, but reactivated in 2001 and has been active on a small scale ever since.\n\nA statue of a dwarf, dedicated to the memory of the movement, stands today on Świdnicka Street in Wrocław, in the place where events took place.\n\nThe Orange Alternative movement has inspired several other similar movements in authoritarian countries including Czechoslovakia and Hungary and it has also inspired and influenced the Pora and the so-called Orange Revolution movement in Ukraine, which was in turn supported by Poland.\n\nSome utterances ascribed to Waldemar Fydrych:\n\nThe beginnings of the Orange Alternative are in a student movement called the Movement for New Culture created in 1980 at the University of Wrocław. It is in that year that Waldemar \"Major\" Fydrych, one of the movement's founders, proclaims the Socialist Surrealism Manifesto, which becomes the ideological backbone behind a gazette known as \"The Orange Alternative\". Seven out of the total fifteen issues of this gazette appear during student strikes organized in November and December 1980 as part of the Solidarity upheaval. The first number is edited jointly by Major Waldemar Fydrych and Wiesław Cupała (a.k.a. \"Captain\") simply with an idea to have fun. The editors treat the strike and the surrounding reality as forms of Art. For the ensuing numbers, the editorial committee is joined by Piotr Adamcio, known as \"Lieutenant Pablo\", Andrzej Dziewit and Zenon Zegarski, nicknamed \"Lieutenant Zizi Top\". Although its avantgarde character, according to the student strike organizers, was a threat to the \"higher aims of the strike\", and notwithstanding attempts by the strike committee to censor it, the gazette became rapidly very popular among the students.\n\nThe first known actions of the Orange Alternative consisted of painting dwarf graffiti on spots created by the police's covering up anti-regime slogans on walls of the Polish cities. The first graffiti was painted by Major Waldemar Fydrych and Wiesław Cupała on the night from the 30 to 31 August 1982 on one of the residences in the Wrocław district of Biskupin and Sępolno.\n\nAltogether more than one thousand of such graffiti were painted in the major Polish cities such as Wrocław, Kraków, Warsaw, Łódź, and Gdańsk.\nDwarves appearing in numbers all over Poland aroused the interest of both Polish pedestrians and the militia, whose intervention led to short term arrests of the graffiti artists.\n\nDuring one of these incidents, Major, a detainee at a police station in Łódź, proclaimed, in reference to the Marxist and Hegelian dialectics, yet another artistic manifesto and referred to his graffiti art as \"dialectic painting\" stating: \"The Thesis is the Anti-Regime Slogan. The Anti-thesis is the Spot and the Synthesis is the Dwarf. Quantity evolves into Quality. The more Dwarves there are, the better it is.\"\n\nAt the beginning of the 21st century Dwarf figurines made of bronze began to appear in Wrocław. Over time, they have become a major tourist attraction in Wrocław.\n\nWhat brought the Orange Alternative the biggest fame were its street happenings which it organized throughout the second half of the 1980s. These actions gained it enormous popularity among the Polish youth, who joined the movement, seeing it an alternative to the opposition style presented by the Solidarity, which they viewed as more stiff and boring.\n\nThe first modest happening called the \"Burning of Tubes\" was organized as early as 1985 in Wrocław by Major Waldemar Fydrych accompanied by a small group of artists to which belonged: Krzysztof Skarbek, Piotr Petyszkowski, Andrzej Głuszek, and Sławomir Monkiewicz.\n\nThe break-through moment came in the fall of 1987, during the Open Theatre Festival in Wrocław, when the Village Voice reported the Orange Alternative's action known as \"Distribution of Toilet Paper\" – a happening that satirized the annoying lack of that consumer product at the time. After the publication of this article, the Orange Alternative became of interest to a number of Polish and foreign media.\n\nThe biggest happenings however took place in the years 1987 through 1989, with the \"orange\" wave spilling over Poland into cities such as Warsaw, Łódź, Lublin and Tomaszów Mazowiecki, following Major Fydrych's arrest on 8 March 1988.\n\nThe actions of the Orange Alternative – although its leaders and participants often expressed anarchistic viewpoints – were not inherently ideological. No serious demands were ever expressed. Rather, the slogans were surrealist in character (such as \"Vivat Sorbovit\", Sorbovit being a popular soft drink at that time) or \"There is no freedom without dwarves\". They often paraphrased slogans used by the Solidarity Union or the communists. Their role was to laugh at absurdities and pompousness of both sides of the system and provoke independent thinking.\n\nThe open street formula allowed all individuals to take part in the happenings. This openness drew thousands of pedestrians to participate in the group's actions. In such a way, the majority of the happenings could assemble thousands of participants, of whom many were accidental passers-by. The culmination point in the movement's history was the action organized on 1 June 1988, known as the \"Revolution of Dwarves\", during which more than 10 thousand people marched through the center of Wrocław wearing orange dwarf hats.\n\nThe happenings usually terminated with the arrest of hundreds of participants, who did not manage to escape in time from the hands of the militia. At one point, the participants were even able to provoke the Communist militia to arrest 77 Santa Clauses or, on another occasion, anyone wearing anything orange.\n\nFor each of its actions, the Orange Alternative printed leaflets and posters, featuring slogans like \"Every militiaman is a piece of Art\" or \"Citizen, help the militia, beat yourself up\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47197182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47197182", "title": "Paraguayan Civil War (1922)", "text": "Paraguayan Civil War (1922)\n\nThe Paraguayan Civil War (1922), took place between 27 May 1922 and 10 July 1923, within the borders of Paraguay. It started when supporters of candidate Adolfo Chirife attempted to forcefully restore the implementation of presidential elections canceled by President Eusebio Ayala. Chirife represented the so-called Constitutionalist or Schaererist side ideologically supporting liberal politician Eduardo Schaerer, while troops under Ayala were named Loyalists or Gondrists ideologically pledging allegiance to former President Manuel Gondra. The conflict concluded when Gondrist forces defeated the remnants of the Schaererist army in Asunción.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 1904 revolution, the Paraguayan liberal movement entered a period of instability and factional fighting. Between 1904 and 1922, 15 Paraguayan presidents assumed office. The coups of 1908 and 1910 cemented the division of Paraguayan liberals into the \"radicales\" and \"civicos\" factions. A further split of the radicales faction into two sub-factions led by Manuel Gondra and Eduardo Schaerer respectively, gradually escalated into a full-scale civil war.\n\nIn 1920, Gondra came out victorious in the presidential election. Schaerer immediately attempted to undermine Gondra by forcing the resignation of Interior Minister José Guggiari, Gondra's most vocal supporter. After Gondra's refusal to dismiss Guggiari, Gondra himself resigned, due to the emergence of a split in Paraguay's armed forces. After Vice President Félix Paiva's refusal to assume office, the congress placed senator Eusebio Ayala, a moderate Gondra supporter into interim presidency.\n\nAnother crisis ensued when Adolfo Chirife, a supporter of Schaerer, became a presidential candidate. Amassing the support of the Colorado party along with a large percentage of supporters in the Liberal Party, Chirife gathered enough support to ensure a victory in the upcoming elections. When Ayla reacted by blocking implementation of the elections, Schaerer's supporters attempted to restore the electoral process by force.\n\nTroops belonging to the 1st, 2nd and 4th military zones totaling 1,700 men, united under the name of the Constitutional Army, declaring its loyalty to Schaerer. Opposing them, loyalist elements of the Paraguayan Navy and the wider Asunción area garrisons pledged allegiance to Gondra. On 27 May 1922, following the failure of two weeks of negotiations between the two sides, Adolfo Chirife ordered his military and civilian supporters in Paraguarí to launch an offensive on the capital, thus beginning a civil war. Passing through Luque, the constitutionalists reached Asunción on June 9. By this time the Gondrists had mustered 600 regular soldiers as well as 1,000 members of the anarcho syndicalist Marine Workers Union. Despite enjoying limited success, the Schaererists were forced to abandon the siege of the barricaded suburbs and on June 14, battles took place in Pirayú and Yaguarón as the Schaererists retreated to Paraguarí.\n\nBetween 28 and 29 June 1922, a loyalist Armstrong Whitworth F.K.8 conducted two raids on Paraguarí, first dropping pamphlets and then bombing the city. On 3 July, the same F.K.8 mistakenly bombed train wagons housing imprisoned soldiers who refused to join the Constitutionalist Army. Numerous prisoners were killed or injured in the action. On 8 July 1922, the F.K.8 was shot down over Pirayú, and British pilot Sydney Stewart was killed.\n\nIn the aftermath of the July 14 loss of Pirayú and Yaguarón, Schaererists began evacuating their troops from Paraguarí to Villarrica. Between 23 and 24 July, Loyalists overran Constitutionalist positions in Ybitimí and Sapucaí. The Gondristas continued their advance, taking Itapé and Salitre Cué, and finally entering Villarrica without firing a single shot on July 31. The town of San Estanislao changed hands several times as opposing cavalries skirmished in the area during early August. The Gondrista Air Force relocated to Villarrica. Reinforced with several Italian World War I veterans including ace Cosimo Damiano Rizzotto, it intensified its reconnaissance and bombing missions. On 5 September, a Constitutionalist Ansaldo SVA.5 bombed Salitre-Cué. A Gondrista aircraft of the same model then took off, firing at the bomber that retreated to Cangó, in an engagement that is considered to be the first recorded dogfight in South America.\n\nFighting continued through late October and early November, as Isla Alta and Cangó fell under Gondrist control. Schaererists entrenched themselves in the Caí Puente Coronel Bogado area 30 kilometers north west of Encarnación. On 13 November, a loyalist detachment marched on Caí Puente, while a second column perpetrated a surprise attack on the Constitutionalist rearguard, capturing Carmen del Paraná. Three days later Gondrists took the Schaererirst stronghold of Caí Puente, but many Constitutionalists managed to escape detention, reorganising and moving north towards the unprotected capital. Utilizing rail transport, the Gondrists halted the Schaererist advance, and after heavy fighting in Paraguarí, Piribebuy and Yhú, the defeated Gondrists fell back beyond Carayaó.\n\nOn 18 March 1923, the Schaererists mounted their first attack in three months, seizing the under-protected Villarrica. The Constitutionalists then ambushed a 20-wagon supply convoy at Pañetey, killing almost 500 soldiers. On 18 May, after Schaererist commander-in-chief Adolfo Chirife died of pneumonia, newly elected commander Pedro Mendoza initiated an offensive on Asunción. Passing through the densely forested areas of Carapeguá, Itá and San Lorenzo, Mendoza entered the capital on 9 July 1923 without encountering significant resistance. A day later Loyalists counterattacked the capital from the north, routing the Schaererists and effectively ending the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "789371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=789371", "title": "Pensioners' Party (Italy)", "text": "Pensioners' Party (Italy)\n\nThe Pensioners' Party (\"Partito Pensionati\", PP) is a centrist Italian political party, whose aim is to represent the interests of pensioners.\n\nThe Pensioners' Party was founded in 1987 in Milan, and its current leader is Carlo Fatuzzo.\n\nIn the 2004 European Parliament election, it gained 1.1% of the national vote and elected its leader to the European Parliament, where he sits in the European People's Party–European Democrats group.\n\nOn 4 February 2006, the party joined The Union, the centre-left coalition led by Romano Prodi, and was decisive in the result of the 2006 general election (the PP scored 0.9% and the centre-left won by a 0.1% margin), but soon after the election the alliance with the centre-left turned cold and tense. In the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani (Forza Italia, Vice President of the European People's Party), tried successfully to convince Fatuzzo to return to the centre-right coalition.\n\nFinally, on 20 November 2006, Carlo Fatuzzo, in a press conference along with Antonio Tajani and Fabrizio Cicchitto (national deputy-coordinator of Forza Italia), announced that its party was re-joining the centre-right House of Freedoms coalition.\n\nIn the 2008 general election the Pensioners' Party presented its candidates into The People of Freedom, but it didn't gained any seat.\n\nIn the 2009 European Parliament election, the party ran as part of The Autonomy, an electoral coalition including The Right, the Movement for the Autonomies and the Alliance of the Centre.\n\nIn 2012 the party enters for the first time in the Italian Parliament with one deputy, Lino Miserotti, who replaces the outgoing deputy Marco Airaghi, and with one senator, Giacinto Boldrini, who replaces the deceased senator Gianpiero Carlo Cantoni.\n\nIn the 2013 general election the Pensioners' Party ran with the Centre-right coalition, getting only the 0.16% of the vote for the Chamber and the 0.40% for the Senate.\n\nIn the 2018 general election the party signed a cooperation Agreement with Forza Italia and some members of the party were candidate in FI's lists, including party's secretary Carlo Fatuzzo, who was elected in the Chamber of Deputies. \n"}
{"id": "21882157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21882157", "title": "Philanthropy Journal", "text": "Philanthropy Journal\n\nThe Philanthropy Journal is an online magazine that delivers news, resources and opinion on matters relating to non-profit organizations. The journal offers a free website and email newsletters, nonprofit job postings, professional-development webinars, and resource listings. In addition to regular news coverage, it publishes information on trends, research, and resources relevant to nonprofits.\n\nThe \"Philanthropy Journal\" was started in 2010. It has been a program of the Institute for Nonprofits at North Carolina State University in Raleigh, North Carolina since 2012. The program coordinator for the journal is Sandra Cyr. Until 30 June 2012 the journal was edited by Todd Cohen, a former news reporter and business editor for \"The News & Observer\", who in 1991 began writing a weekly philanthropy column for that newspaper.\n\nThe \"Philanthropy Journal\" is published on a weekly basis.\n"}
{"id": "38380981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38380981", "title": "Polaroid Corp. v. Polarad Elects.", "text": "Polaroid Corp. v. Polarad Elects.\n\nPolaroid Corp. v. Polarad Elect. Corp. is a key United States legal case from 1961 in trademark infringement law. It is also cited in personality rights particularly around celebrities. The decision set out that trademark infringement is measured by the multi-factor \"likelihood of confusion\" test. That is, a new mark will infringe on an existing trademark if the new mark is so similar to the original that consumers are likely to confuse the two marks, and mistakenly purchase from the wrong company.\n\nThe likelihood of confusion test turns on several factors, including:\n\nThis multi-factor test was famously articularted by Judge Henry Friendly in Polaroid v. Polarad. and are often referred to as the \"Polaroid Factors.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44781169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44781169", "title": "Police firearm use by country", "text": "Police firearm use by country\n\nThe use of firearms by police forces varies widely across the world, in part due to differences in gun use policy, civilian firearm laws, and recording of police activity. Police may require that officers use warning shots before aiming on-target, officers may need to make verbal warnings before using their firearms, and officers may be prohibited from carrying weapons while performing tasks such as highway patrol where gun use is not expected.\n\nIn some countries including the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, Norway, Iceland, and New Zealand police do not carry firearms unless the situation is expected to involve gunfire from the opposing force. A survey conducted in the United Kingdom in 2004 found that 47% of citizens supported arming all police while 48% were opposed to the idea.\n\nThe Australian police forces is monitored by the Australian Institute of Criminology, which has recorded police shooting deaths since 1989. Police in Australia routinely wear firearms which are personally issued to them. All fatal police shootings are subject to a mandatory coronial inquest. A 2013 review by the Australian Institute of Criminology found that 42% of victims of fatal police shootings had a mental illness. A more recent history of deaths by police shootings is tabulated below.\n\nPolice in Austria are monitored by the Austrian Interior Ministry. Since 2006 the records of police firearm use have been expanded to show whether or not a round was targeted at people.\nData reported on by Heute\n\nSince 1965 all Danish police officers have carried a police pistol when performing their duties. Danish police used Walther PPK 7.65 mm as the standard pistol until 2000, and then the Heckler & Koch USP 9 mm was introduced. In 2008 police began to carry pepper spray in addition to their firearm.\n\nThe appropriate use of firearms is described in the \"Act on Police Activities\" regulations, section 16 and 17 is translated into English in.\n\nIn Denmark the police use of weapons is recorded by the police department. The police department classifies tear gas as the use of a firearm. In 2006 the death of four people by police shootings prompted an investigation into the use of firearms by the Danish police force from 1996 to 2006. The investigation found no significant trends of increased firearms use by the police.\n\nMore recent figures have been published separately in a different format.\n\nPolice in Finland have access to weapons including a Glock 17, Heckler & Koch MP5, Taser and pepper spray. The use of firearms is recorded by the Police College and the Finnish ministry of the Interior.\nData reported on by YLE uutiset\n\nIn France the police are regularly armed, however, there is no official record of how frequently firearms are used. An independent group \"A Toutes Les Victimes\" has tracked the number of deaths and injuries by police which have been published in the media since 2005.\n\nGerman police forces routinely carry weapons. Police firearm statistics dating back to 1996 are available, a summary of recent years is tabulated below.\n\nIcelandic police do not regularly carry firearms. In 2013 the first fatal police shooting took place where one man was killed. As of July 2016 this remains the only fatal police shooting since Iceland became an independent republic in 1944.\n\nThe Jamaica Constabulary Force's use of lethal force has been monitored by Amnesty International. From 1983 to 2000 the Jamaican police force has been reported to kill between 121 and 355 people each year with an average of 171 deaths. A subsequent report by Amnesty USA shows that from 2000 to 2015 between 101 and 307 people were killed each year with an average of 192 deaths. In 2010 the Independent Commission of Investigations (Indecom) was established to tackle the frequent use of lethal force which has made progress towards reducing the problem.\n\nLaw enforcement in the Netherlands regularly carry firearms, in every incident where a firearm round hits a person there is an investigation conducted to determine if the use of a firearm was justified. The results of the investigations are made publicly available, the cases for each year are tabulated.\n\nData from firearms use investigations \nThe New Zealand Police do not routinely carry firearms. When force is used (excluding handcuffs) a tactical operations report is filed. Use of tactical options is published by the police force.\n\nA summary of tactical options used in 2010–2014 was published in 2015. In 33,198 events over the four-year period, firearms were drawn 1,422 times, resulting in 5 injuries. Tactical operations resulting in fatalities are not recorded in the database.\n\nSince 1916, New Zealand Police have used lethal force 40 times.\n\nThe Norwegian Police Service only carry firearms in response to specific situations. The use of firearms is recorded by the police department which publishes detailed statistics on the annual use of firearms. The information presented in the 2014 report is detailed in the table below.\n\nThe South African Police Service is monitored by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) which releases an annual report on the performance indicators of police activity. The IPID publishes deaths as a results of police action and deaths in police custody. Use of firearms forms the majority of the killings by police; shootings by police are all classified under \"deaths as a result of police action\".\n\nThe Swedish Police Authority always carry firearms when on public duty. The standard weapon issued to officers is the SIG Sauer P226. The police authority report that normally police will threaten to use their weapon but do not discharge it, this happens about 200 times per year. In a typical year the police shoot 20 warning shots aimed at people or vehicles. An investigation reviewing the use of weapons by police details the firearm use from 2003 to 2014.\n\nOnly the most serious use of violence is counted, if an incident involves both warning shots and shots for effect it is only counted in the shots for effect section.\n\nThe police forces in the United Kingdom are managed by different bodies and as such they have different standards for firearms usage. Police in Northern Ireland regularly carry firearms whereas the police in Scotland, England and Wales do not.\n\nThe police force in England and Wales do not routinely carry firearms, a 2006 poll of 47,328 members of the Police Federation of England and Wales found that 82% do not want officers to be routinely armed while on duty. The UK home office reports annual statistics on the use of firearms by police forces. The use of firearms is recorded by the police department which publishes detailed statistics on the annual use of firearms dating back to 2003. One report published figures for 2003-2013, later years are published individually. While the Home Office monitors the use of police equipment the Independent Police Complaints Commission monitors the fatalities of people due to police contact.\n\nThe Police Service of Northern Ireland publish an annual report on the police use of force which lists the frequency that firearms were drawn and fired. However, this report does not list the injuries or deaths resulting from firearms use.\nData published by the Police Service of Northern Ireland.\n\nThere is no consistent recording of firearms use across all states, some bodies such as the New York Police Department (NYPD) report on firearms discharge. In 2015 NYPD reported a record low of eight deaths as well as fifteen injuries caused by police firearms discharge.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation publish the number of justified homicides by law enforcement.\n\nIn response to the lack of published data, British newspaper \"The Guardian\" launched \"The Counted\"- a program to record the number of fatal police shootings throughout the United States. \"The Guardian\" reports that 1146 people were killed in 2015 and 1092 people in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "37850487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37850487", "title": "Radical Movement of Social Democratic Alliance", "text": "Radical Movement of Social Democratic Alliance\n\nRadical Movement of Social Democratic Alliance (RIKSSY) (, ΡΙΚΣΣΥ (a play on words with the homophone ρήξη, \"rupture\"), was a short-lived (2012-2013) political party in Greece, established in December 2012. It was formed by Andreas Loverdos a former minister of the PASOK.\n\n"}
{"id": "16195251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16195251", "title": "Renewing the Anarchist Tradition", "text": "Renewing the Anarchist Tradition\n\nRenewing the Anarchist Tradition is an annual conference of anarchist intellectuals. Started in 1997, it has brought together anarchists and anti-authoritarian scholars and activists desiring to critically engage both with the tradition itself and the world at large. Participants and presenters at the conference aim to foster a more rigorous contemporary theoretical framework for anarchism as well as a stronger foundation from which anti-authoritarian movements can organize and resist. The conference is co-organized by Institute for Anarchist Studies members Andrea Maria, Cindy Milstein and John Petrovato. The 2007 conference was held in Montpelier, Vermont.\n\nThe conference intends to support and nurture \"a new generation of anti-authoritarian public intellectuals\" from varied backgrounds and experiences. The conference is self-described as \"a scholarly conference,\" in virtue of the claimed quality of the presentations and discussions rather than the professional identity of the participants, and being active in academia is not a requirement for participation, though notable radical academics are presenters.The conference has served as a fertile environment for organizers, scholars, writers, artists, educators, publishers, and students from a diversity of left libertarian and anarchist tendencies to collaborate and develop long-term relationships.\n\nPresentations at the conference have focused on topics ranging from the nature of social change and the changing nature of state, technology and capital to anarchists' position in relation to the geopolitics of war and terrorism; from emergent forms of both domination and resistance in a globalizing world to the role and possibilities of anti-authoritarian art and propaganda; and from the persistent importance of concepts such as class, community, and labor, to the challenges for anarchists of confronting issues of identity such as gender, race and sexuality.\n\n"}
{"id": "30699478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30699478", "title": "Rural Reconstruction Nepal", "text": "Rural Reconstruction Nepal\n\nRural Reconstruction Nepal (RRN) () is a non-government, not for profit, social development organisation in Nepal, initiated in 1989 in the form of a small organisation created by a group of creative graduates of the Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science in Chitwan district with its initial name 'Grass Roots Institute for Training and Services-Nepal (GRITS-Nepal)'. By subscribing to the basic principles of the International Rural Reconstruction Movement, GRITS-Nepal was renamed and officially registered in 1993 as Rural Reconstruction Nepal (RRN). With the passage of time, RRN has been able to expand itself into one of the fast-growing NGOs in the country together with its diverse development programmes covering the vast geographical area and the population. \n\nRRN enjoys the Special Consultative Status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) of the United Nations since 1997 and is also accredited to the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), and the Green Climate Fund (GCF). Currently, it is hosting the Sub-Regional Secretariat of the CSO Partnership for Development Effectiveness (CPDE), the Regional Secretariat of the South Asia Alliance for Poverty Eradication (SAAPE) , and the International Secretariat of LDC Watch . \n\nRemaining within the centre of Credo of the International Rural Reconstruction Movement, RRN has been working with the poverty trodden and disadvantaged rural communities for more than one and half decade. During this period, based on the four-fold approach of rural reconstruction - education, health, livelihood and self-government, it has implemented a wide range of community development programmes and projects to address the crucial problems of the country and the people. These programmes include education, healthcare, natural resource management for livelihood, empowerment of women, children and the Dalit, and ethnic minority groups. Besides, it has also implemented activities that produced positive results in the community within a short period, particularly at the time of disasters and conflicts. Such activities included the emergency relief and rehabilitation, rural infrastructure development, life skill development, and local resource generation programmes, among others.\n\nSince its inception, RRN has been working with the poor and marginalised people in rural Nepal to facilitate them in the process of meeting their basic needs, improving livelihoods and building their own institutions. It contributes to rural people's empowerment and socio-economic reconstruction process, by embracing the rights-based approaches to development. RRN is also committed to creating an enabling environment for building a just, equitable, peaceful and prosperous society through social, economic and political empowerment of the rural poor, particularly the poor rural women, peasants, landless people and other disadvantaged and socially oppressed strata of Nepalese society. \n\nBesides implementing integrated community development programmes at grassroots, it is also engaged in advocacy, lobbying and networking at local, national and international levels for the cause of protecting and promoting human rights and social justice. \n\nIn the post conflict context of Nepal, RRN has positioned itself to facilitate in conflict transformation initiatives by adopting the approach that strongly focuses on institutionalising democracy and peace building through reconstruction, rehabilitation and reconciliation - RRR process. In order to successfully embark on such a significant process, RRN considers such key aspects - people's genuine participation, gender equality and social inclusion, transparency, accountability, social justice, coordination and collaboration, and community's demand, community ownership over the interventions and sustainability as its strategies. \n\n\nRRN focuses all its development programmes on the four-fold approach of Rural Reconstruction as the foundation upon which its programme and project activities are based. The focus lies on the following four key building blocks:\n\nRRN subscribes to the philosophy and principles of the International Rural Reconstruction Movement, which are encapsulated in the following credo:\n\nRRN is implementing diverse community development programmes and projects in several districts of the country; covering the Mountain, Hills and Lowlands (Tarai) ecological zones. It is estimated that these programmes have benefited over 500,000 households. \n\n\"Eastern Region\"\n\"Central Region\"\n\"Mid-Western Region\"\n\"Far-Western Region\"\n\n"}
{"id": "50368633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50368633", "title": "Security First Corp", "text": "Security First Corp\n\nSecurity First Corp is a Rancho Santa Margarita, CA information assurance and data security company. The company holds over 250 patents for software defined data security, including its Secure Parser Extended (SPx) technology, which encrypts and randomly splits data into multiple segments, storing them in different locations. This technology is also called bitsplitting.\n\nSecurity First Corp was founded in 2002 by Mark O'Hare, a 26-year navy veteran who had served as Program Executive Officer of the US Navy Aircraft Carrier Program.\n\nIn 2008, information technology company Unisys integrated Security First's Secure Parser technology into its Stealth brand software for Windows servers and desktops.\n\nIn June 2009, the company acquired Silicon Valley-based DRC Computer Corporation (DRC), a developer of acceleration coprocessors. Security First was reportedly using DRC's products for an information security appliance, and planned to operate DRC as a wholly owned subsidiary.\n\nIn August 2011, IBM announced they were integrating three of Security First's cryptographic technologies into its next generation of chips, to increase their security.\n\nIn December 2014, Security First released SPxSHARC for VMware's vCenter Server, running on VMWare's ESXi hypervisor.\n\nIn 2015, IBM announced it was using Security First's SPxBitFiler-IPS encryption technology to allow IBM's PureApplication System virtual pattern deployers to encrypt on-disk data. The technology is also licensed by IBM for its Cloud Data Encryption Service (ICDES).\n\nSecurity First's core product is Secure Parser Extended (SPx) technology, which encrypts data, scrambles it randomly and disperses it to different locations. The technology combines AES-256 certified encryption, multi-factor secret sharing with keyed information dispersal, and cryptographic random bit-splitting. The solution is compliant with common government and industry data protection standards and security requirements.\n\nThe company offers SPx SHARC, a security suite designed for multi-site data protection, SPx Gateway, a data protection solution designed to protect data stored across multiple cloud computing service providers, a process the company calls \"Cloud Spanning\", and ParsedCloud, a file transfer application that encrypts, splits and transfers data between multiple sites, available in free and fee-based versions.\n\nIn December 2014, former Apple CEO John Sculley was interviewed on Fox News and called Security First's bitsplitting technology a \"gamechanger\".\n\nIn a December 2014 SEC filing, the company announced it had raised $29 Million from sales of debt and equity, from undisclosed investors. In an April 2016 SEC filing, the company announced it had raised an additional $36 Million from sales of debt and equity, also from undisclosed investors.\n\nThe company operates DRC Computer corporation as a wholly owned subsidiary.\n"}
{"id": "44837137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44837137", "title": "Shooting of Antonio Martin", "text": "Shooting of Antonio Martin\n\nThe shooting of Antonio Martin occurred on December 23, 2014, in Berkeley, Missouri, a suburb of St. Louis. Martin, an 18-year-old black male, was fatally shot by a white Berkeley police officer when Martin pulled a gun on him. The shooting sparked protests in the St. Louis area and other cities in the U.S. The shooting elicited comparison to the earlier shooting death of Michael Brown two miles away in Ferguson, Missouri.\n\nOn the night of December 23, 2014, a Berkeley Police Department officer responded to an employee's emergency phone call report at 11:11 pm of shoplifting by two men at a Mobil On the Run convenience store along the 6800 block of North Hanley Road. An unidentified officer arrived at 11:15 p.m. in his police cruiser and saw two men just outside the store who matched the description of the suspects.\n\nThe shooting happened in a parking lot outside a Mobil gas station. The police officer was not wearing a body camera and there were no shots fired by the teen's gun. As the officer fired, he stumbled backwards and fell to the ground while retreating, all of which was caught on video by the store's security cameras. One of the shots fired by the officer struck Martin, another struck the tire of the officer's vehicle, and the third is unaccounted for.\n\nPolice recovered a Hi-Point 9mm handgun from the scene, said to be Martin's, with five rounds in the magazine and one round in the chamber. The gun's serial number had been filed off, an indication that it may have been stolen.\n\nFootage of the incident was captured by surveillance cameras outside the convenience store. According to police, several witness' accounts back up the officer's story that Martin was first to draw his weapon. The officer said he was not wearing the body camera he had been issued earlier that day. The police car's dash-camera was likely not recording at the time.\n\nThe officer is identified as a 34-year-old white male, and a six-year veteran of the department. He had previously Served with the Country Club Hills, Missouri Police Department. He is represented by attorney Brian Millikan who also represents St. Louis police officer Jason Flanery in the October killing of VonDeritt Myers.\n\nSt. Louis County Prosecuting Attorney Robert McCulloch assigned a prosecutor to the County's investigation. The City of Berkeley will conduct its own independent investigation.\n\nDespite complaints about the timeliness of medical attention to arrive, paramedics arrived at 11:21 p.m. – six minutes after the shooting. Martin was declared dead, and his body covered, by 11:28 p.m. A crowd of onlookers and protesters gathered at the scene within 20 minutes of the shooting. The county crimes against persons unit arrived at 12:15 a.m. As the crowd grew angry, protesters clashed with law enforcement working to protect the scene for investigators collecting evidence. The crowd grew to an estimated 300 people as tensions escalated. Some threw rocks and other projectiles at the officers. One officer received a facial laceration from a thrown brick. Another officer's leg was injured when two explosive devices were ignited at the gas station. Protesters damaged police cars and another explosive ignited a small fire at a nearby QuikTrip.\n\nMedia crews and surveillance video recorded an individual lighting fires with lighter fluid inside and outside the same store when looters broke in. Police say 19-year-old Joshua Williams of St. Louis was the individual. Williams, a frequently quoted advocate for peace in the aftermath of the Michael Brown shooting, was charged days later with arson in the first degree, a felony; felony burglary and misdemeanor stealing. On video Williams confessed to police of lighting the fires. Four others were arrested for assault-related offenses. Martin's body was removed from the crime scene at around 1:40 a.m. Several protesters lingered at the site throughout the night.\nPolice were seeking the unidentified second suspect who fled the scene as a \"person of interest\". Two other bystanders at the scene were identified as witnesses. Martin's girlfriend was among those at the scene at the time of the shooting.\n\nThe night after the incident, dozens of people, including Martin's mother and stepfather, gathered near the scene where Martin was killed to chant and protest. Some in the group broke away to block traffic on the nearby Interstate 170. Law enforcement attempted to subdue the protesters with pepper spray. At least two were arrested.\n\nOutside the Cathedral Basilica of Saint Louis about 75 vigilers held a moment of silence for Martin and others. St. Louis Police officers in riot gear stood ready in front of the cathedral.\n"}
{"id": "1975296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1975296", "title": "State crown", "text": "State crown\n\nA state crown is the working crown worn or used by a monarch on recurring state occasions such as when opening Parliament in Britain, as opposed to the coronation crown with which they would be formally crowned.\n\nSome state crowns might however be used during parts of the coronation ceremony. In isolated cases, individual monarchs sometimes chose to use their state crown instead of the official coronation crown for the crowning, but those cases were exceptions rather than the norm.\n\nSome states where there was no ceremonial coronation only had state crowns, or neither as in Belgium.\n\nThe term \"state crown\" was particularly used in the Kingdom of England and its successor Kingdom of Great Britain to describe the crowns of Kings Charles II and George I that were worn on occasions such as the State Opening of Parliament. While the crown of Charles no longer exists, the jewel-less frame of the State Crown of George I is still kept among the British Crown Jewels.\nBecause they were more frequently in use, in contrast to a coronation crown which was usually only worn once during each reign, state crowns were repeatedly replaced due to wear and tear. \n\nBecause of its age and fragility, the State Crown of George I was replaced in 1838, the new replacement crown was instead called the Imperial State Crown, as was its replacement in 1937. The adjective 'imperial' did not indicate that British Sovereigns were Emperors, even if \"rex in regno suo est imperator\" (tbe King is Emperor within his own realm), but in medieval European tradition crowns with arches were called Imperial.\n"}
{"id": "880045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880045", "title": "Sunset provision", "text": "Sunset provision\n\nIn public policy, a sunset provision or clause is a measure within a statute, regulation or other law that provides that the law shall cease to have effect after a specific date, unless further legislative action is taken to extend the law. Most laws do not have sunset clauses and therefore remain in force indefinitely, except under systems in which desuetude applies.\n\nThe roots of sunset provisions are laid in Roman law of the mandate but the first philosophical reference is traced in the laws of Plato . At the time of the Roman Republic, the empowerment of the Roman Senate to collect special taxes and to activate troops was limited in time and extent. Those empowerments ended before the expiration of an electoral office, such as the Proconsul. The rule \"Ad tempus concessa post tempus censetur denegata\" is translated as \"what is admitted for a period will be refused after the period\". The same rules were applied in the Roman emergency legislation. The fundamental principle appeared in several areas of legislation and later codified in the \"Codex Iustinianus\" (10, 61, 1). The principle was broken when Julius Caesar became dictator for life.\n\nSunset provisions have been used extensively throughout legal history . The idea of general sunset provisions was discussed extensively in the late 1970s.\n\nIn American federal law parlance, legislation that renews an expired mandate is a \"reauthorization act\" or \"extension act\". Extensive political wrangling often precedes reauthorizations of controversial laws or agencies. High-profile examples in American law include:\n\nPart of the Alien and Sedition Acts, the Sedition Act was a political tool used by John Adams and the Federalist Party to suppress opposition. The authors ensured the act would terminate at the end of Adams' term so that it could not be used by Democratic-Republicans against his own party.\n\nUnder §224 of the USA PATRIOT Act, several of the surveillance portions originally expired on December 31, 2005. These were later renewed, but expired again on March 10, 2006, and were renewed once more in 2010. The USA PATRIOT Act is set to sunset the following provisions:\n\nIn 2004 the sunset provision of the Assault Weapons Ban terminated the law.\n\nThe Congressional Budget Act governs the role of Congress in the budget process. Among other provisions, it affects Senate rules of debate during the budget reconciliation, not least by preventing the use of the filibuster against the budget resolutions. The Byrd rule, named after its principal sponsor, Senator Robert C. Byrd, was adopted in 1985 and amended in 1990 to modify the Budget Act and is contained in section 313. The rule allows Senators to raise a point of order against any provision that is extraneous, where extraneous is defined according to one of several criteria. The definition of extraneous includes provisions that are outside the jurisdiction of the committee or that do not affect revenues nor outlays.\n\nImportantly for sunset provisions, the Byrd Rule also defines as extraneous provisions that \"...would increase the deficit for a fiscal year beyond those covered by the reconciliation measure.\" Since the Budget Act says the budget resolution covers at least the four years following the \"budget year,\" which is typically the year following the year it was adopted, that is the usual period of time. However, budget resolutions have covered periods as long as ten years, so a reconciliation measure may cover the ten years. This rule has the effect of allowing congress members to raise a point of order against any spending increase or tax cut that does not contain a sunset provision that ends it after five or ten years (conceivably longer). (Otherwise, the provision increases the deficit in a fiscal year after the period covered by the budget resolution.) Overcoming a point of order requires cloture, and thus a three-fifths majority of 60 in the Senate. In short, a net effect of the Byrd Rule is to require that any spending increase or tax cut be approved by a majority of 60 if it does not contain a sunset provision. This is intended to assure there is no increase in the deficit after the budget resolution period (though there is an exception if the total effect on the deficit in a particular title is to not increase the deficit, the point of order is not triggered). With the sunset provision, only a simple majority is necessary in the budget reconciliation process.\n\nIn the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 the US Congress enacted a phaseout of the federal estate tax over the following 10 years, so that the tax would be completely repealed in 2010. However, while a majority of the Senate favored the repeal, there was not a three-fifths supermajority in favor. Therefore, a sunset provision in the Act reinstates the tax to its original levels (and indeed, all tax cuts contained in the Act) on January 1, 2011 in order to comply with the Byrd Rule. , Republicans in Congress have tried to repeal the sunset provision, but their efforts have been unsuccessful. Uncertainty over the prolonged existence of the sunset provision has made estate planning more complicated. However, certain provisions of the Act have had their sunset provision repealed. For example, the education savings 529 plans, also introduced in the Act, were permanently extended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006.\n\nAccording to the National Conference of State Legislatures, \"Colorado, Florida and Alabama passed the first sunset laws in 1976. Texas and 21 other states followed suit in 1977. Eventually, a total of 36 states passed broad sunset statutes\"; however, dissatisfaction with the sunset process left only 22 states still using it by 1992.\n\nThe Texas Sunset provision was established in 1977. Under Texas law, all agencies – except universities, courts, and agencies established by the Texas Constitution – will be abolished on a specific date, generally 12 years after creation or renewal, unless the Texas Legislature passes specific legislation to continue its functions.\n\nA 12-member Sunset Advisory Commission oversees the provisions of the Texas Sunset Act. The commission consisting of five members of the Texas Senate and one member from the general public appointed by the Lieutenant Governor of Texas, and five members of the House and one member from the general public appointed by the Speaker of the Texas House of Representatives. Legislative members are appointed for four-year terms, with half of the commission reappointed on or before September 1 of odd-numbered years, while public members serve two-year terms. The chairman and vice-chairman are appointed by the lieutenant governor and speaker, and the chairmanship alternates between the Senate and House every two years. The Commission is assisted by an executive director and staff, who review each agency subject to sunset provisions.\n\nUnder the process, each agency must perform for the commission a self-review of its roles and responsibilities, including areas where its duties may overlap those of other agencies and the effect of the agency's abolition on loss of federal funding. The self-review must be completed by September 1 of the odd-numbered year before the year when the agency would be otherwise abolished. The commission must then complete its own review by the following January 1 and hold public hearings by the following February 1.\n\nAbout 20 to 30 agencies go through the sunset process each legislative session. Constitutionally established agencies are subject to review, but they cannot be abolished under the sunset provisions.\n\nThe commission may recommend that an agency be continued in its present form (nearly always with recommendations to the legislature for improvement), consolidated with another agency, or abolished, with its duties either eliminated or transferred to other agencies.\n\nAlabama has a similar review process with a more limited number of agencies and a review cycle of every four years.\n\nA sunset clause was introduced by the House of Lords to some parts of the Prevention of Terrorism Act 2005; the act was eventually passed without it. Part 5 of the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013, \"Reduction of legislative burdens\", made provision for sunset and review provisions\" in secondary legislation, i.e.\n\nIn Canada all legislation enacted under Section Thirty-three of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (subsection three of the \"notwithstanding clause\") has an implied sunset clause of five years, this being the maximum length legislation enacted under the section may be operative for (unless an earlier date is specified).\n\nThe Canadian Anti-Terrorism Act contains a sunset clause that went into effect in February 2007.\n\nSpecial laws enacted to deal with emergency situations often contain sunset clauses; one of the most infamous special laws, Bill 78, had a sunset clause.\n\nIn 2005, the Australian Government decided to legislate new Anti-Terrorism laws. These laws have a sunset clause of ten years.\n\nIn 2007, the Liberal Democratic Party proposed a constitutional amendment to make sunset clauses compulsory in all legislation that lacks the support of a 75% parliamentary supermajority.\n\nThe Legislative Instruments Act 2003 legislates the automatic expiry of most legislative instruments (delegated legislation). Starting in 2015 these legislative instruments must be renewed or they expire automatically.\n\nIn the German legislation sunset provisions are applied on several federal levels.\nThe German constitution rules a general sunset provision of six months for emergency legislation. Some federal states, e.g., Hesse and North Rhine-Westphalia sporadically add sunset provisions to bills.\n\nA sunset provision can be found in the Corporate Restructuring Promotion Act, which is to facilitate out-of-court workout of insolvent companies. This Act was effective during the period: \nNow the Act came into force for the third time on May 19, 2011 and will be effective to December 2013. \nThe main content of the Act has been kept intact for the purpose of constant corporate debt restructuring through market functions and promotion of speedy and smooth corporate restructuring, while some minor provisions were modified from time to time.\n\nThe Electoral Integrity Act was passed in 1999 to discourage \"waka-jumping\" in a mixed member proportional parliamentary system. The amendment expired as scheduled in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "12682883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12682883", "title": "Swedish Research Council", "text": "Swedish Research Council\n\nThe Swedish Research Council () is a Government agency in Sweden established in 2001, with the responsibility to support and develop basic scientific research. Its objective is for Sweden to be a leading nation in scientific research. The agency has three main functions:\n\n"}
{"id": "2517867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2517867", "title": "Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre", "text": "Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre\n\nThe Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC) is the administrative body which processes applications for universities (and other tertiary institutions) in the state of Victoria (Australia).\n\nVictorian Tertiary Admissions Centre (VTAC) processes applications from suitably qualified students, which may list up to 12 preferences for tertiary courses in the state of Victoria. Tertiary institutions determine whether the applicant is given an offer to undertake a course – VTAC then informs students of the highest preferred course they have been offered, if any.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42405046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42405046", "title": "Voroshylovskyi District, Donetsk", "text": "Voroshylovskyi District, Donetsk\n\nVoroshylovskyi District () is an urban district of Donetsk, Ukraine, named after Marshal of the Soviet Union Kliment Yefremovich Voroshilov.\n\nIt is the Donetsk's downtown and was created in 1973 after splitting away from the Kalininskyi District, Donetsk.\n\n"}
{"id": "9347306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9347306", "title": "Z-Division", "text": "Z-Division\n\nThe International Assessments Program — known as Z-Division — is a Special Projects Group of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory established to provide the United States Intelligence Community with technical assessments of foreign nuclear programs and weapons capabilities. Z-Division was formed in 1965, bringing together scientists and engineers to help intelligence agencies understand the significance of Soviet nuclear weapons tests. The letter 'Z' was chosen as most letters were already assigned to other divisions. Relationships with the American intelligence community were formalised by a memorandum of understanding drawn up between the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and the Atomic Energy Commission (now the Department of Energy) in the same year. \n\n"}
