{"id": "55703839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55703839", "title": "2 Hare Court", "text": "2 Hare Court\n\n2 Hare Court is a set of barristers chambers specialising in criminal and regulatory law, located in the Inner Temple, one of the four Inns of court. Established in the 1967, It employs 61 barristers, including 16 Queens' Counsel and several former prosecutors, including those who have acted as First Senior, Senior and Junior Treasury Counsel - barristers appointed by the Attorney General to prosecute the most serious and complex criminal cases to come before the courts.\n 2 Hare Court is a Grade I listed building that houses barristers' chambers in the Inner Temple. It was named after a nephew of Sir Nicholas Hare, also named Nicholas Hare, who built the first set in 1567. The original buildings were destroyed in a fire in 1678, and the building which is now 1 Hare Court dates from the reconstruction. In 2000, 2 Hare Court building was extensively refurbished.\n\nThe set's practice areas include:\n\nMembers of chambers have prosecuted and defended in many high-profile criminal cases, including murder and terrorism, with head of chambers Jonathan Laidlaw QC defending News International chief executive Rebekah Brooks accused of phone hacking, Oliver Glasgow QC prosecuting Constance Briscoe, barrister and a part-time judge who was imprisoned for perverting course of justice in Chris Huhne scandal, Robert Rinder, barrister specialising in financial crime best known for his role on the reality courtroom series \"Judge Rinder\", who in September 2016 became the first daytime TV judge to compete in the fourteenth series of \"Strictly Come Dancing\",\nand Orlando Pownall QC who represented the Premier League footballer Adam Johnson at a trial over child sex allegations.\n\nFormer members include The Hon. Mr Justice Edis, who practised in chambers until 2013 when he was appointed a Justice of the High Court, and Dame Bobbie Cheema-Grubb, former member who practised in chambers until November 2015, when she was appointed a High Court judge. David Pannick QC, former member, acted for the lead claimant Gina Miller in the historic 11-justice Supreme Court case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40446830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40446830", "title": "ATP (treaty)", "text": "ATP (treaty)\n\nATP (formally, the Agreement on the International Carriage of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be used for such Carriage (ATP)) is a 1970 United Nations treaty that establishes standards for the international transport of perishable food between the states that ratify the treaty. It has been updated through amendment a number of times and as of 2016 has 50 state parties, most of which are in Europe or Central Asia. It is open to ratification by states that are members of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) and states that otherwise participate in UNECE activities. \"ATP\" is derived from the French name of the treaty: \"Accord relatif aux transports internationaux de denrées périssables et aux engins spéciaux à utiliser pour ces transports\".\n\nATP was concluded in Geneva on 1 September 1970 under the aegis of the UNECE. It was signed by Austria, West Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, and Switzerland. The treaty entered into force on 21 November 1976 after it had been ratified by five states. ATP was intended to replace the Agreement on Special Equipment for the Transport of Perishable Foodstuffs and on the Use of such Equipment for the International Transport of some of those Foodstuffs, which was concluded in 1962 but never received enough ratifications to enter into force.\n\nATP mandates that certain types of equipment be used to transport perishable food across borders and that such equipment will be regularly inspected. (For instance, equipment may need to be refrigerated, heated, or insulated.) ATP applies to transport by road and by rail, but it does not apply to transport within the borders of a single country.\n\nAs of 2016, the following 50 states are party to ATP:\nFormer state parties are Czechoslovakia, East Germany, and Yugoslavia. Russia ratified as the Soviet Union and Serbia ratified as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Switzerland signed the agreement but has not ratified it.\n\n"}
{"id": "10532510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10532510", "title": "Airline ticket", "text": "Airline ticket\n\nAn airline ticket is a document or electronic record, issued by an airline or a travel agency, that confirms that an individual is entitled to a seat on a flight on an aircraft. The airline ticket may be one of two types: a \"paper ticket\", which comprises coupons or vouchers; and an electronic ticket (commonly referred to as an \"e-ticket\").\n\nThe ticket, in either form, is required to obtain a boarding pass during check-in at the airport. Then with the boarding pass and the attached ticket, the passenger is allowed to board the aircraft.\n\nRegardless of the type, all tickets contain the following information:\nTimes on airline tickets are generally for the local time zone where the flight will be at that moment.\n\nA revenue passenger on an airline must hold a valid issued ticket. In order for a ticket to be issued, there are two distinct process:\n\nA reservation for an itinerary is made in the airline system, either directly with the airline of by an agent. The itinerary includes all the above details needed for the issuance of an air ticket, except the ticket number.\n\nWhen the reservation the made, a passenger name record (PNR) will be created which is used to manage the reservation and check in. It is possible to have multiple passengers in a single passenger name record.\n\nHaving a reservation does not entitle the passenger to travel. Only when the airline receives the payment, a ticket is issued which is linked to the reservation which allows the passenger to travel.\n\nTraditionally, reservation and payment are separate steps, which the time between them are defined in the fare rules when the reservation is made. However, it is more common to require immediate payment on online booking systems.\n\nEach passenger must hold his/her own air ticket, as shown by an individual ticket number, even when the reservations are linked by a single PNR.\nIATA announced that as of June 1, 2008, IATA-member airlines will no longer issue any paper tickets.\n\nA ticket is generally only good on the airline for which it was purchased. However, an airline can endorse the ticket, so that it may be accepted by other airlines, sometimes on standby basis or with a confirmed seat. Usually the ticket is for a specific flight. It is also possible to purchase an 'open' ticket, which allows travel on any flight between the destinations listed on the ticket. The cost for doing this is greater than a ticket for a specific flight. Some tickets are refundable. However, the lower cost tickets are usually not refundable and may carry many additional restrictions.\n\nThe carrier is represented by a standardized 2-letter code. In the example above, Thai Airways is TG. The departure and destination cities are represented by International Air Transport Association airport codes. In the example above, Munich is MUC and Bangkok is BKK. The International Air Transport Association is the standard setting organization.\n\nOnly one person can use a ticket. If multiple people are traveling together, the tickets are linked together by the same record locator or reservation number, which are assigned, if the tickets were purchased at the same time. If not, most airlines can cross-reference the tickets together in their reservation systems. This allows all members in a party to be processed in a group, allowing seat assignments to be together (if available at the time of the assignment)\n\nWhen paper tickets were still frequently used, a practice existed by travellers to get rid of their tickets (which are person-specific), when they decided to alter the course of their trips. This practice consisted of selling the ticket to other travellers (often at discount prices), after which the seller accompanied the buyer at the time of departure to the airport. Here, the original owner checked in under his name and provided the airline with the buyer's baggage. After this, the buyer boarded the airplane at the moment of departure. However, since most airlines check identification on boarding, this procedure is rarely functional. The practice of using another person's ticket is illegal in many jurisdictions. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2207522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2207522", "title": "American Jurisprudence", "text": "American Jurisprudence\n\nAmerican Jurisprudence (second edition is cited as Am. Jur. 2d) is an encyclopedia of the United States law, published by West. It was originated by Lawyers Cooperative Publishing, which was subsequently acquired by the Thomson Corporation. The series is now in its second edition, launched in 1962. It is a staple of law libraries, and the current edition is over 140 volumes, updated with replacement volumes, annual pocket supplements, and a New Topic Service binder. The discussion has extensive research references to other Thomson West publications, including sister publications \"Am. Jur. Trials, Am. Jur. Proof of Facts, Am. Jur. Pleading and Practice Forms,\" and \"Am. Jur. Legal Forms.\" Before Thomson's acquisition of West Publishing, it was a competitor to Corpus Juris Secundum. \"Am. Jur.\" is available online through both Westlaw, and LexisNexis.\n\nThere is also an American Jurisprudence award given to law school students for achieving the highest grade and rank in the class for a particular subject (Contract, Constitutional Law, etc.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1106345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1106345", "title": "Ancillary relief", "text": "Ancillary relief\n\nIn English law, an application for financial relief following the presentation of a petition for divorce, nullity or judicial separation used to be described as ancillary relief. The term arose because the financial application was 'ancillary' to the petition. However, the term was discarded by the Family Procedure Rules 2010 which substituted it with the term \"application for a financial order\".\n\nThe courts powers derive in large part from the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973, and in particular section 25(2) which sets out the statutory checklist of factors that should be taken into account. The court can order lump sum payments, property adjustment orders (e.g. requiring a property is transferred into the ownership of a husband or wife), periodical payments (known as 'maintenance') and (from 2000) pension sharing orders.\n\nMaintenance orders can be given on nominal or specific terms. Nominal orders operate on the basis that if the court makes no order for maintenance (known as \"periodical payments\") at the time of the final order, it cannot later come back and make an order. If, on the other hand, it makes an order, it can later vary it. This is why an order for periodical payments at the rate of 5 pence per year (the usual nominal order) is known as a nominal order - it gives the recipient the right to come back and make an application for a substantive monthly sum at a later date.\n\nFollowing a 1984 amendment, the court is obliged to consider whether the parties' financial relationship should be terminated ('clean break').\n\nThe leading cases are now the House of Lords decisions of \"White v White 2001\" 1 A.C. 596 and Miller/ McFarlane.\n"}
{"id": "425514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425514", "title": "Art theft", "text": "Art theft\n\nArt theft is usually for the purpose of resale or for ransom (sometimes called artnapping). Stolen art is sometimes used by criminals as collateral to secure loans. Only a small percentage of stolen art is recovered—estimates range from 5 to 10%. This means that little is known about the scope and characteristics of art theft.\n\nMany thieves are motivated by the fact that valuable art pieces are worth millions of dollars and weigh only a few kilograms at most. Transport for items such as paintings is also trivial, assuming the thief is willing to inflict some damage to the painting by cutting it off the frame and rolling it up into a tube carrier. Also, while most high-profile museums have extremely tight security, many places with multimillion-dollar art collections have disproportionately poor security measures. That makes them susceptible to thefts that are slightly more complicated than a typical smash-and-grab, but offer a huge potential payoff. Thieves sometimes target works based on their own familiarity with the artist, rather than the artist's reputation in the art world or the theoretical value of the work.\n\nUnfortunately for the thieves, it is extremely difficult to sell the most famous and valuable works without getting caught, because any interested buyer will almost certainly know the work is stolen and advertising it risks someone contacting the authorities. It is also difficult for the buyer to display the work to visitors without it being recognized as stolen, thus defeating much of the point of owning the art. Many famous works have instead been held for ransom from the legitimate owner or even returned without ransom, due to the lack of black-market customers. Returning for ransom also risks a sting operation.\nFor those with substantial collections, such as the Marquess of Cholmondeley at Houghton Hall, the risk of theft is neither negligible nor negotiable. Jean-Baptiste Oudry's \"White Duck \" was stolen from the Cholmondeley collection at Houghton Hall in 1990. The canvas is still missing.\n\nMuseums can take numerous measures to prevent the theft of artworks include having enough guides or guards to watch displayed items, avoiding situations where security-camera sightlines are blocked, and fastening paintings to walls with hanging wires that are not too thin and with locks.\n\nThe Smithsonian Institution sponsors the National Conference on Cultural Property Protection, held annually in Washington, D. C. The conference is aimed at professionals in the field of cultural property protection.\n\nSince 1996, the Netherlands-based Museum Security Network has disseminated news and information related to issues of cultural property loss and recovery. Since its founding the Museum Security Network has collected and disseminated over 45,000 reports about incidents with cultural property. The founder of the Museum Security Network, Ton Cremers, is recipient of the National Conference on Cultural Property Protection Robert Burke Award.\n\n2007 saw the foundation of the Association for Research into Crimes against Art (ARCA). ARCA is a nonprofit think tank dedicated principally to raising the profile of art crime (art forgery and vandalism, as well as theft) as an academic subject. Since 2009, ARCA has offered an unaccredited postgraduate certificate program dedicated to this field of study. The Postgraduate Certificate Program in Art Crime and Cultural Heritage Protection is held from June to August every year in Italy. A few American universities, including New York University, also offer courses on art crime.\n\nIn the public sphere, Interpol, the FBI Art Crime Team, London's Metropolitan Police, New York Police Department's special frauds squad and a number of other law enforcement agencies worldwide maintain \"squads\" dedicated to investigating thefts of this nature and recovering stolen works of art.\n\nAccording to Robert King Wittman, a former FBI agent who led the Art Crime Team until his retirement in 2008, the unit is very small compared with similar law-enforcement units in Europe, and most art thefts investigated by the FBI involve agents at local offices who handle routine property theft. \"Art and antiquity crime is tolerated, in part, because it is considered a victimless crime,\" Wittman said in 2010.\n\nIn response to a growing public awareness of art theft and recovery, a number of not-for-profit and private companies now act both to record information about losses and oversee recovery efforts for claimed works of art. Among the most notable are:\n\n\nIn January 2017, Spain's Interior Ministry announced that police from 18 European countries, with the support of Interpol, Europol, and Unesco, had arrested 75 people involved in an international network of art traffickers. The pan-European operation had begun in October, 2016 and led to the recovery of about 3,500 stolen items including archaeological artifacts and other artwork. The ministry did not provide an inventory of recovered items or the locations of the arrests.\n\nFrom 1933 through the end of World War II, the Nazi regime maintained a policy of looting art for sale or for removal to museums in the Third Reich. Hermann Göring, head of the Luftwaffe, personally took charge of hundreds of valuable pieces, generally stolen from Jews and other victims of the Holocaust.\n\nIn early 2011, about 1,500 art masterpieces, assumed to have been stolen by the Nazis during and before World War II, were confiscated from a private home in Munich, Germany. The confiscation was not made public until November 2013. With an estimated value of $1 billion, their discovery is considered \"astounding,\" and includes works by Pablo Picasso, Henri Matisse, Marc Chagall, Paul Klee, Max Beckmann and Emil Nolde, all of which were considered lost.\n\nThe looted, mostly Modernist art, was banned by the Nazis when they came to power, on the grounds that it was \"un-German\" or Jewish Bolshevist in nature. Descendants of Jewish collectors who were robbed of their works by the Nazis may be able to claim ownership of many of the works. Members of the families of the original owners of these artworks have, in many cases, persisted in claiming title to their pre-war property.\n\nThe 1964 film \"The Train\", starring Burt Lancaster, is based on the true story of works of art which had been placed in storage for protection in France during the war, but was looted by the Germans from French museums and private art collections, to be shipped by train back to Germany. Another film, \"The Monuments Men\" (2014), co-produced, co-written and directed by George Clooney, is based on a similar true-life story. In this film, U.S. soldiers are tasked with saving over a million pieces of art and other culturally important items throughout Europe, before their destruction by Nazi plunder.\n\nIn 2006, after a protracted court battle in the United States and Austria (see Republic of Austria v. Altmann), five paintings by Austrian artist Gustav Klimt were returned to Maria Altmann, the niece of pre-war owner, Ferdinand Bloch-Bauer. Two of the paintings were portraits of Altmann's aunt, Adele. The more famous of the two, the gold \"Portrait of Adele Bloch-Bauer I\", was sold in 2006 by Altmann and her co-heirs to philanthropist Ronald Lauder for $135 million. At the time of the sale, it was the highest known price ever paid for a painting. The remaining four restituted paintings were later sold at Christie's New York for over $190 million.\n\nBecause antiquities are often regarded by the country of origin as national treasures, there are numerous cases where artworks (often displayed in the acquiring country for decades) have become the subject of highly charged and political controversy. One prominent example is the case of the Elgin Marbles, which were moved from Greece to the British Museum in 1816 by Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin. Many different Greek governments have maintained that removal was tantamount to theft.\n\nSimilar controversies have arisen over Etruscan, Aztec, and Italian artworks, with advocates of the originating countries generally alleging that the removal of artifacts is a pernicious form of cultural imperialism. Yale University's Peabody Museum of Natural History is engaged (as of November 2006) in talks with the government of Peru about possible repatriation of artifacts taken during the excavation of Machu Picchu by Yale's Hiram Bingham. Likewise the Chinese government considers Chinese art in foreign hands to be stolen and there may be a clandestine repatriation effort underway.\n\nIn 2006, New York's Metropolitan Museum reached an agreement with Italy to return many disputed pieces. The Getty Museum in Los Angeles is also involved in a series of cases of this nature. The artwork in question is of Greek and ancient Italian origin. The museum agreed on November 20, 2006, to return 26 contested pieces to Italy. One of the Getty's signature pieces, a statue of the goddess Aphrodite, is the subject of particular scrutiny.\n\nIn January 2013, after investigations by Interpol, FBI and The U.S. Department of Homeland Security, police in Canada arrested John Tillmann (art thief) for an enormous spate of art thefts. It was later determined that Tillmann in conjunction with his Russian wife, had for over twenty years, stolen at least 10,000 different art objects from various museums, galleries, archives and shops from around the world. While not the largest art heist in total dollar value, Tillmann's case may be the largest art heist ever, in number of objects stolen.\n\nImages of some artworks that have been stolen and have not yet been recovered.\n\nGenres such as crime fiction often portray fictional art thefts as glamorous or exciting raising generations of admirers. Most of these sources add adventurous, even heroic element to the theft, portraying it as an achievement. In literature, a niche of the mystery genre is devoted to art theft and forgery. In film, a caper story usually features complicated heist plots and visually exciting getaway scenes. In many of these movies, the stolen art piece is a MacGuffin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10499110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10499110", "title": "Association law", "text": "Association law\n\nAssociation law is a term used in the United States for the law governing homeowner associations and related organizations.\n\nReal estate developers often choose to maximize residential construction to clusters of residences within real property parcels. Many people purchase their residence within an association for reasons such as location along beaches and other areas, amenities, uniformity of appearance and other particular benefits or reasons. Associations are registered by the developer of the community as a not-for-profit corporation, which form of corporation is also governed by particular statutes.\n\nThe legal forms of residential associations include homeowner associations, condominium associations, cooperative associations and mobile home associations. Thus, state laws are enacted to address specific types of associations applicable to the type of communities and relationships between the governing association and its constituents.\n\nIn Florida there are statutes under Ch. 718, \"The Condominium Act\", Ch. 719, regarding Co-Operative ownership, Ch. 720, governing Homeowner Associations, and Ch. 721, controlling laws for Mobile Homes. The laws for such associations continually evolve to address important legal and socioeconomic matters.\n\nDeed restrictions apply to purchasers of residential interests within such communities pursuant to a recorded Declaration, By-Laws, Covenants and Restrictions and/or Rules and Regulations for the particular community. Associations and all owners therein are subject to state statutes enacted for the particular form of community. Thus, compliance with such restrictions is mandatory and will be enforce by an applicable court of law and/or arbitration unless such restrictions are declared to be invalid or otherwise illegal.\n\nAssociations are also required to comply with applicable laws concerning structural and other components of the condominium or other applicable building to help ensure the safety of owners.\n\nOnce the developer arrives at a certain percentage of sales or permanent leasing of units within the association, the developer is statutorily required to transfer control of the association to owners other than the developer including control of a majority of the board of directors and delivery of financial records, all association records and all association property. \"E.g.\", Fla. Stat. sec. 718.301(1).\n\nParticular laws apply to financial requirements, construction defects and other matters concerning the developer of associations with applicable deadlines and various statutes of limitations. \"E.g.\", Fla. Stat. sec. 718.301(4)(c)(90-day deadline following turnover of control for the developer of a condominium to pay for and provide an independent audit of the financial records); \"e.g.\", Fla. Stat. sec. 718.203(developer warranties). Even a conversion of an older building to condominium can subject the developer to providing warranties to its owners. \"E.g.\", 718.618(6). Thus, following the transition of the association from the developer to unit owners other than the developer, the board of directors has the exceedingly important task of timely evaluating same through expert and legal advice.\n\nThere is a growing trend for developers to choose to construct or convert buildings to non-residential commercial offices. One of the reasons for this growth in popularity is that the residential market is cooling with slower sales, high levels of investment ownership and high levels of supply.\n"}
{"id": "42892247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42892247", "title": "Banking union", "text": "Banking union\n\nThe banking union in the European Union is the transfer of responsibility for banking policy from the national to the EU level in several countries of the European Union, initiated in 2012 as a response to the Eurozone crisis. The motivation for banking union was the fragility of numerous banks in the Eurozone, and the identification of vicious circle between credit conditions for these banks and the sovereign credit of their respective home countries (\"bank-sovereign vicious circle\"). In several countries, private debts arising from a property bubble were transferred to sovereign debt as a result of banking system bailouts and government responses to slowing economies post-bubble. Conversely, weakness in sovereign credit resulted in deterioration of the balance sheet position of the banking sector, not least because of high domestic sovereign exposures of the banks. \n\nAs of 2014, the banking union mainly consists of two main initiatives, the Single Supervisory Mechanism and Single Resolution Mechanism, which are based upon the EU's \"single rulebook\" or common financial regulatory framework. The SSM took up its authority on 4 November 2014, and the SRM entered into full force on 1 January 2016. \n\nAs of October 2018, the geographical scope of the banking union was identical to that of the euro area. In future, other non-euro member states of the EU may join the banking union under a procedure known as close cooperation. Bulgaria is expected to join in the course 2019, as part of its longer-term aim to adopt the euro as its currency.\n\nThe integration of bank regulation has long been sought by EU policymakers, as a complement to the internal market for capital and, from the 1990s on, of the single currency. However, powerful political obstacles including the willingness of member states to retain instruments of financial repression and economic nationalism led to the failure of prior attempts to create a European framework for banking supervision, including during the negotiation of the Maastricht Treaty in 1991 and of the Treaty of Nice in 2000. During the 2000s, the emergence of pan-European banking groups through cross-border mergers and acquisitions (such as the purchases of Abbey National by Santander Group, HypoVereinsbank by UniCredit and Banca Nazionale del Lavoro by BNP Paribas) led to renewed calls for banking policy integration, not least by the International Monetary Fund, but with limited policy action beyond the creation of the Committee of European Banking Supervisors in 2004.\n\nDeterioration of credit conditions during the Eurozone crisis, and specifically the contagion of financial instability to larger member states of the euro area from the middle of 2011, led to renewed thinking about the interdependence between banking policy, financial integration, and financial stability. On 17 April 2012, IMF managing director Christine Lagarde renewed the institution's earlier calls for banking policy integration by specifically referring to the need for the euro monetary union to be \"...supported by stronger financial integration which our analysis suggests be in the form of unified supervision, a single bank resolution authority with a common backstop, and a single deposit insurance fund.\" The following week on 25 April 2012, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi echoed this call by noting in a speech before the European Parliament that \"Ensuring a well-functioning EMU implies strengthening banking supervision and resolution at European level\". Suggestions for more integrated European banking supervision were further discussed during an informal European Council meeting on 23 May 2012, and appear to have been backed at the time by French President François Hollande, Italian Prime Minister Mario Monti, and European Commission President José Manuel Barroso. German Chancellor Angela Merkel signalled a degree of convergence on this agenda when declaring on 4 June 2012, that European leaders \"will also talk about to what extent we have to put systemically (important) banks under a specific European oversight\".\n\nAnother milestone was the report delivered on 26 June 2012, by European Council President Herman Van Rompuy, which called for deeper integration in the Eurozone and proposed major changes in four areas. First, it called for a banking union encompassing direct recapitalisation of banks by the European Stability Mechanism, a common financial supervisor, a common bank resolution scheme and a deposit guarantee fund. Second, the proposals for a fiscal union included a strict supervision of eurozone countries' budgets, and calls for eurobonds in the medium term. Third, it called for more integration on economic policy, and fourth, for the strengthening of democratic legitimacy and accountability. The latter is generally envisioned as giving supervisory powers to the European Parliament in financial matters and in reinforcing the political union. A new treaty would be required to enact the proposed changes.\n\nThe key moment of decision was a summit of euro area heads of state and government on 28–29 June 2012. The summit's brief statement, published early on 29 June, began with a declaration of intent, \"We affirm that it is imperative to break the vicious circle between banks and sovereigns,\" which was later repeated in numerous successive communications of the European Council. It followed by announcing two major policy initiatives: first, the creation of the Single Supervisory Mechanism under the European Central Bank's authority, using Article 127(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; and second, \"when an effective single supervisory mechanism is established,\" the possibility of direct bank recapitalisation by the European Stability Mechanism, possibly with retroactive effect in the case of Spain and Ireland.\n\nIn the following weeks, the German government quickly backtracked on the commitment about direct bank recapitalisation by the ESM. In September 2012, it was joined on this stance by the governments of Finland and the Netherlands. Eventually, such conditions were put on the ESM direct recapitalisation instrument that, as of September 2014, it has never been activated. However, the creation of the Single Supervisory Mechanism proceeded apace. Furthermore, in December 2012 the European Council announced the creation of the Single Resolution Mechanism. Europe's banking union has been identified by many analysts and policymakers as a major structural policy initiative that has played a significant role in addressing the Eurozone crisis.\n\nBruegel, a Brussels-based think tank, has been credited for popularising both the concept and the expression of European banking union. The earliest public use of the expression \"banking union\" in the Eurozone crisis context is an article by Bruegel scholar Nicolas Véron in December 2011. This use paralleled the earlier advocacy of fiscal union by various observers and policymakers in the same context, especially in Germany in the second half of 2011. From April 2012, the expression was later popularised by the financial press, initially with reference to its use by Bruegel. From June 2012 onward, it was increasingly used in the public policy debate, including by the European Commission.\n\nThe single rulebook is a name for the EU laws that collectively govern the financial sector across the entire European Union. The provisions of the single rulebook are set out in three main legislative acts:\n\n\nOne pillar of the banking union is the Single Supervisory Mechanism (SSM), which would grant the European Central Bank (ECB) a supervisory role to monitor the implementation of the single rulebook and the financial stability of banks based in participating states.\n\nNot all EU member states will participate in the SSM. Participation is automatic for eurozone states. Since the EU treaties only give the ECB jurisdiction over eurozone states, legally it cannot enforce measures in non-eurozone state. This would prevent the ECB from effectively carrying out its supervisory role in these states. However, the SSM allows for non-eurozone states to enter into a \"close cooperation\" agreement with the ECB to let banks in that country be supervised by the ECB provided that they have mechanisms in place to make ECB measures binding upon national authorities. A \"close cooperation\" agreement can be ended by the ECB or by the participating non-eurozone member state. Participating non-eurozone states will also gain a seat on the ECB's Supervisory Board.\n\nWhile all banks in participating states will be under the supervision of the ECB, this will be carried out in co-operation with national supervisors. The most significant institutions, including those with holdings greater than 30 billion euros or 20% of the GDP of the state where they are based, and those directly funded by the European Stability Mechanism or European Financial Stability Facility, or have applied for such financing, will be directly supervised by the ECB. Smaller banks will remain directly monitored by their national authorities, though the ECB has the authority to take over direct supervision of any bank. The ECB's monitoring regime includes conducting stress tests on financial institutions. If problems are found, the ECB will have the ability to conduct early intervention in the bank to rectify the situation, such as by setting capital or risk limits or by requiring changes in management. However, if a bank is in danger of failing, the responsibility for resolving it rests with the Single Resolution Mechanism.\n\nThe SSM was enacted through two regulations:\n\nThe European Commission released their proposal for the SSM in September 2012. The European Parliament and Council agreed on the specifics of the SSM on 19 March 2013. The Parliament voted in favour of the SSM Regulations on 12 September 2013, and the Council of the European Union gave their approval on 15 October 2013. The regulation set 4 November 2014 as the date when the ECB was to begin its supervisory role.\n\nThe Single Resolution Mechanism (SRM) is a proposed pillar that would centrally implement the common rulebook's Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive in participating Member States, and would establish a Single Resolution Fund (SRF) to finance their restructuring.\n\nThe SRM would let troubled banks operating under the SSM be restructured with a variety of tools including bailout funds from the centralised SRF, valued at 1% of covered deposits of all credit institutions authorised in all the participating member states (estimated at around 55 billion euros), which would be filled with contributions by participating banks during an eight-year establishment phase. This would help to alleviate the impact of failing banks on the sovereign debt of individual states. The SRM would also handle the winding down of non-viable banks. The Single Resolution Board would be directly responsible for the resolution of significant banks under ECB supervision, while national authorities would take the lead in smaller banks.\n\nLike the SSM, the SRM Regulation will cover all banks in the eurozone, with other states eligible to join. The text of the Regulation approved by Parliament stipulates that all states participating in the SSM, including those non-eurozone states with a \"close cooperation\" agreement, will automatically be participants in the SRM.\n\nThe SRM is to be enacted through a Regulation and an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) titled:\n\nThe proposed Regulation was put forward by the European Commission in July 2013. The Parliament and the Council of the European Union reached an agreement on the Regulation on 20 March 2014. The European Parliament approved the Regulation on 15 April, and the Council followed suit on 14 July 2014, leading to its entry into force on 19 August 2014.<ref name=\"Regulation 806/2014\"></ref>\n\nThe Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) was signed by 26 EU member states on 21 May 2014, remaining open to accession by the remaining EU members Sweden and the United Kingdom. Its entry into force was conditional on the Agreement being ratified by states representing 90% of the weighted vote of SSM and SRM participating states. This was achieved on 30 November 2015, when all participating states apart from Greece and Luxembourg had ratified. Greece ratified on 7 December. The agreement entered into force on 1 January 2016 for SSM and SRM participating states. Luxembourg subsequently ratified on 11 January 2016.\n\nThe 19 eurozone member states participate automatically in the SSM and SRM. Since the EU treaties only give the ECB jurisdiction over eurozone states, legally it cannot enforce measures in non-eurozone states. This would prevent the ECB from effectively carrying out its supervisory role in these states. Under the European Treaties, non-eurozone countries do not have the right to vote in the ECB's Governing Council and in return are not bound by the ECB's decisions. Non-eurozone countries cannot become full members of the SSM and SRM in the sense of having the same rights and obligations as eurozone members. However, non-eurozone EU member states can enter into a \"close cooperation agreement\" on the SSM with the ECB. The banks in that country are then supervised by the ECB and the country gains a seat in the ECB's Supervisory Board. It would allow banks in that country to be supervised by the ECB provided that they have mechanisms in place to make ECB measures binding upon national authorities. A \"close cooperation\" agreement can be ended by the ECB or by the participating non-eurozone member state. Participating non-eurozone states will also gain a seat on the ECB's Supervisory Board. The text of the SRM stipulates that all states participating in the SSM, including those non-eurozone states with a \"close cooperation\" agreement, will automatically be participants in the SRM.\n\nThe first request to enter into \"close cooperation\" was made by Bulgaria on 18 July 2018.\n\nThe Danish government announced in April 2015 its intention to join the banking union. Although the justice ministry found that the move did not entail any transfer of sovereignty and thus would not automatically require a referendum, the Danish People's Party, Red Green Alliance and Liberal Alliance oppose joining the banking union and collectively the three won enough seats in the subsequent June 2015 election to prevent parliament from joining without the approval through a referendum. As of July 2017, Denmark is studying joining, with a decision expected in the fall of 2019.\n\nBulgaria's Finance Minister, Vladislav Goranov, stated in July 2017 that his country would not participate prior to euro adoption. However, after pressure from the ECB to begin participating in the Banking Union prior to joining the European Exchange Rate Mechanism, Goranov said in June 2018 that Bulgaria would join the Banking Union within a year. Bulgaria sent a letter to the Eurogroup in July 2018 on its desire to participate in ERM II, and commitment to enter into a \"close cooperation\" agreement with the Banking Union.\n\nSweden's Financial Markets Minister Per Bolund has said that the country is conducting a study on joining, which is planned to be completed by 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "19216309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19216309", "title": "Brian Fitzgerald (academic)", "text": "Brian Fitzgerald (academic)\n\nBrian Fitzgerald is an Australian legal academic and barrister. He is an intellectual property and information technology/internet lawyer who has pioneered the teaching of internet/cyber law in Australia. Fitzgerald was a specialist research professor at the Queensland University of Technology (QUT) until February 2012, when he became the inaugural Executive Dean of Law at the Australian Catholic University's Faculty of Law and Business.\n\nFitzgerald studied Arts at Griffith University and Law at the Queensland University of Technology, graduating with First Class Honours, and as University Medallist in Law, before going on to postgraduate study at the University of Oxford (BCL), Harvard University (LLM) and Griffith University (PhD). In 1998 he was named as QUT Law Faculty's Alumnus of the Year.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2002, Fitzgerald was Head of the School of Law and Justice at Southern Cross University, and from 2002 to 2007 he was Head of the School of Law at QUT. Since March 2012 he has been the Executive Dean of Law at the Australian Catholic University, based in Melbourne.\n\nFitzgerald is a Chief Investigator and Program Leader for Law in the Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence on Creative Industries and Innovation. He is also the Project Leader of Creative Commons Australia and Peer to Patent Australia and is member of the Access to and Use of Public sector Information (auPSI) project. He was Project Leader for the Open Access to Knowledge Law (OAK Law) Project studying legal protocols for open access for the Australian research sector, and for the Legal Framework for e-Research Project.\n\nHis current projects include work on intellectual property issues across the areas of copyright, digital content and the internet, copyright and the creative industries in China, open content licensing and the Creative Commons, free and open source software, research use of patents, patent informatics administration licensing, Science Commons, e-research, licensing of digital entertainment and anti-circumvention law.\n\nProfessor Fitzgerald was a member of the Government 2.0 Taskforce set up by the Australian Government in 2009. This taskforce produced its report, \"Engage: Getting on with Government 2.0\", in December 2009.\n\nFitzgerald has been featured in \"The Sydney Morning Herald\", \"The Science Show\", and \"The Law Report\" discussing copyright related legal issues.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4866560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4866560", "title": "Budget theory", "text": "Budget theory\n\nBudget theory is the academic study of political and social motivations behind government and civil society budgeting. Classic theorists in Public Budgeting include Henry Adams, William F. Willoughby, V. O. Key, Jr., and, more recently, Aaron Wildavsky. Notable recent theorists include Baumgartner and Jones--Frank R. Baumgartner and Bryan D. Jones, Richard Fenno, Allen Schick, Dennis Ippolito, Naomi Caiden, Irene Rubin, James D. Savage, Thomas Greitens and Gary Wamsley. Budget theory was a central topic during the Progressive Era and was much discussed in municipal bureaus and other academic and quasi-academic facilities of that time such as the nascent Brookings Institution.\n\nThe executive budget in United States was a financial innovation designed to empower city mayors and city managers with the capacity to implement needed policy reforms in the Progressive Era. Since that time, the executive budget has become a tool by which the president of the United States has been able to substantively shape policy and draw power to the president from Congress, which was originally charged with \"holding the purse\" (and still is constitutionally, as there is no federal-legislative authority to change the constitution outside the amendment process or for congress to legislate away their authority). This has resulted in an ever increasing role and power base for what is now called the Office of Management and Budget.\n\nConstitutional economics is a field of economics and constitutionalism which describes and analyzes the specific interrelationships between constitutional issues and functioning of the economy including budget process. The standards of constitutional economics when used during annual budget planning, as well as the latter's transparency to the society, are of the primary guiding importance to the implementation of the rule of law. Also, the availability of an effective court system, to be used by the civil society in situations of unfair government spending and executive impoundment of any previously authorized appropriations, becomes a key element for the success of any influential civil society.\n\nThe term “constitutional economics” was used by American economist – James M. Buchanan – as a name for a new academic sub-discipline that in 1986 brought him the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his “development of the contractual and constitutional bases for the theory of economic and political decision-making.” Buchanan rejects “any organic conception of the state as superior in wisdom, to the individuals who are its members.” This philosophical position is, in fact, the very subject matter of constitutional economics. Buchanan believes that a constitution, intended for use by at least several generations of citizens, must be able to adjust itself for pragmatic economic decisions and to balance interests of the state and society against those of individuals and their constitutional rights to personal freedom and private happiness.\n\nThe Russian school of constitutional economics was created in the early 21st century with the idea that CE allows for a combined economic and constitutional analysis in the legislative, first of all, budget process, thus helping to overcome arbitrariness in the economic and financial decision-making and to open entrance to civil society into budget process. This model of CE is based on the understanding that it is necessary to narrow the gap between practical enforcement of the economic, social and political rights granted by the constitution and the annual (or mid-term) economic policy, budget legislation and administrative policies conducted by the government. In 2006, the Russian Academy of Sciences has officially recognized constitutional economics as a separate academic sub-discipline.\n\nConstitutional economics studies such issues as the proper national wealth distribution including the government spending on the judiciary, which in many transitional and developing countries is completely controlled by the executive. The latter undermines the principle of powers' “checks and balances”, as it creates a critical financial dependence of the judiciary. It is important to distinguish between the two methods of corruption of the judiciary: the state (through budget planning and various privileges – being the most dangerous), and the private. The state corruption of the judiciary makes it almost impossible for any business to optimally facilitate the growth and development of national market economy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "731752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=731752", "title": "CFM International", "text": "CFM International\n\nCFM International is a joint venture between GE Aviation, a division of General Electric of the United States, and Safran Aircraft Engines (formerly known as Snecma), a division of Safran of France. The joint venture was formed to build and support the CFM56 series of turbofan engines.\n\nThe names of CFM International and the CFM56 product line are derived from the two parent companies' commercial engine designations: GE's CF6 and Snecma's M56.\n\nThe joint venture has delivered 30,700 engines to more than 570 operators and has 13,700 engines in backlog. In 2016 CFM delivered 1,665 CFM56 and 77 LEAP, and booked 2,677 orders : 876 CFM56 and 1,801 LEAP for US$36 billion at list price. The LEAP engine backlog exceeds 12,200 which is valued at more than US$170 billion at list price.\n\nIn 2017, CFM delivered 1,900 engines including 459 LEAPs, of which it plan to deliver 1,200 in 2018, 1,800 in 2019 and more than 2,000 in 2020.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56718772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56718772", "title": "Civil liability in recreational diving", "text": "Civil liability in recreational diving\n\nThe civil liability of a recreational diver may include a duty of care to another diver during a dive. Breach of this duty that is a proximate cause of injury or loss to the other diver may lead to civil litigation for damages in compensation for the injury or loss suffered.\n\nParticipation in recreational diving implies acceptance of the inherent risks of the activity Diver training includes training in procedures known to reduce these risks to a level considered acceptable by the certification agency, and issue of certification implies that the agency accepts that the instructor has assessed the diver to be sufficiently competent in these skills at the time of assessment and to be competent to accept the associated risks. Certification relates to a set of skills and knowledge defined by the associated training standard, which also specifies the limitations on the scope of diving activities for which the diver is deemed competent. These limitations involve depth, environment and equipment that the diver has been trained to use. Intentionally diving significantly beyond the scope of certified competence is at the diver's risk, and may be construed as negligence if it puts another person at risk. Recommendations generally suggest that extending the scope should be done gradually, and preferably under the guidance of a diver experienced in similar conditions. The training agencies usually specify that any extension of scope should only be done by further training under a registered instructor, but this is not always practicable, or even possible, as there can always be circumstances that differ from those experienced during training.\n\nRetention of skills requires exercise of those skills, and prolonged periods between dives will degrade skills by unpredictable amounts.\n\nA recreational diver may have a duty of care to another diver if one of these conditions occurs:\n\nThe existence of a duty of care between two persons depends on the relationship between them. Dive buddies who depend on each other to perform tasks such as equipment checks and provide assistance in an emergency are obliged to act reasonably and not increase the risks of the activity, but may be excluded from liability by assumption of the risk or waiver.\n\nWhere relevant, the dive operator is responsible for:\n\nIn a number of US cases, the failure of a charter operator to assign a buddy has been ruled a breach of the industry standard of care. It is not clear what competence or certification is required to allocate buddy pairs, and whether this duty would also apply to a boat operator who is not a divemaster or instructor. Defendants have argued that a person who dived without an allocated buddy was contributorily negligent as they also did not meet the appropriate standard of care.\n\n\n\nThe certified diver is responsible for ensuring that their personal equipment, competence and fitness is sufficient to ensure their own safety in and under the water on the planned dive, allowing for reasonably foreseeable contingencies, and to follow safe diving practices.\n\nA diver in training may not be competent to assume one or more of these duties, or their competence may be limited, depending on their existing certification. The duty of care of the instructor is to compensate for the known or reasonably predictable shortfalls in the learner's competence.\n\nThe responsibilities of dive buddies have been established by training standards and usage. Buddies are responsible for: \nTraining agencies may differ in the detail of the procedures divers are expected to use in each of these cases. In most cases both systems work and are reasonably compatible when they require the active participation of one diver at a time, but there are examples where differences could lead to complications. For example, the specific procedures for sharing air can vary considerably between agencies, and have changed over time. It is quite possible for a buddy pair to have been trained in two conflicting protocols for air sharing, and each use equipment selected according to the system they were trained to use. In an emergency this could lead to sub-optimal response even if the procedures had been agreed during planning.\n\nDivers may be given vague, conflicting and outmoded advice:\n\nAn option for some divers is to dive without a buddy. Although this would relieve the diver of any duty to a buddy and any related liability, this may not be permitted by the service provider, or in a few cases, by national law.\n\nNot all dive professionals agree that the buddy system is entirely preferable to solo diving. Even professionals who basically support the buddy system in theory accept that in practice it often leaves a great deal to be desired, and that in some circumstances diving solo may be safer as this avoids the hazards imposed by a panicked or incompetent buddy. Solo diving advocates also contend that most dives do not follow the buddy system as specified by the training agencies, as the divers are often too far apart to notice if a problem occurs or to respond effectively.\n\nThe usual strategies used by divers to minimize the likelihood of being sued and the consequences of a lawsuit are insurance, liability releases and care in selecting a buddy. Following the accepted procedures when buddy diving, ensuring personal competence and taking due care will reduce the risk of an incident occurring due to fault of the diver.\n\n\n\n\nIn recreational diving the participant is taking on a voluntary risk.\nIn sport participants accept that other participants may be careless and may cause injuries to others due to inept behaviour.\n\nAssumption of risk is a defense in the law of torts, which bars or reduces a plaintiff's right to recovery against a negligent tortfeasor if the defendant can demonstrate that the plaintiff voluntarily and knowingly assumed the risks at issue inherent to the dangerous activity in which they were participating at the time of the injury.\n\nWhat is usually meant by assumption of risk is more precisely termed \"primary\" or \"express\" assumption of risk. It occurs when the plaintiff has either expressly or implicitly relieved the defendant of the duty to mitigate or relieve the risk causing the injury from which the cause of action arises. It operates as a complete bar to liability on the theory that upon assumption of the risk, there is no longer a duty of care between the defendant and the plaintiff, and without a duty owed by the defendant, there can be no negligence on their part. However, primary assumption of risk is not a blanket exemption from liability for the operators of a dangerous activity. The \"specific\" risk causing the injury must have been known to, and appreciated by, the plaintiff in order for primary assumption of risk to apply. Also, assumption of risk does not absolve a defendant of liability for reckless conduct.\n\nTo establish negligence in a civil court there must be a breach of duty which can be shown to have caused harm to the other person.\n\nA breach is a failure to follow an appropriate standard of care where a duty exists based on a relationship. This can occur between buddies and between a provider and a client.\n\nOnce it is established that the defendant owed a duty to the plaintiff/claimant, the matter of whether or not that duty was breached must be settled. A defendant who knowingly exposes the plaintiff/claimant to a substantial risk of loss, or fails to recognise a substantial risk of loss to the plaintiff/claimant, which any reasonable person in the same situation would clearly recognise, breaches that duty.\n\nThe standard action in tort is negligence. The tort of negligence provides a cause of action leading to damages, or to relief, in each case designed to protect legal rights, including those of personal safety, property, and, in some cases, intangible economic interests or noneconomic interests such as the tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress in the United States. Negligence actions include claims personal injury accidents of many kinds, including scuba diving.\n\nIf although not intending to do harm someone can reasonably foresee that their actions could harm another person, and they continue with those actions and do not stop, and that other person is eventually injured or suffers damages as a consequence of those actions, that is negligence, and the injured party can hold the negligent person liable for compensation.\n\nA person who has a legal duty to take reasonable care and does not do so, can be held liable for damages that are directly caused by the breach of that duty. Directly caused means that the injury or damage is a direct consequence of the failure to perform the reasonable duty. Reasonable care is the standard of care that is considered reasonable to expect in a given situation, taking into account the conditions, experience, training, qualifications, etc. The standard does not require perfection and makes allowance for mistakes and errors in judgement, provided that the person has exercised caution appropriate to the circumstances. In determining a standard of care, the courts would take an objective approach, and take into account the person’s specific knowledge or experience, and the level at which the person represented themself.\n\nWhen a voluntarily accepted risk leads to an involuntary injury there must be evidence of someone either doing something that they should not have done or not doing something that they should have done before a claim for damages can succeed. \n\nA large proportion of cases are litigated due to uncertainty of the cause of the accident.\n\nThe history of appeal cases in the USA tend to rule that the buddy relationship creates a duty to act reasonably and not increase the risks associated with diving. The existence of damages can usually be proven though the amount may be contested. The aspect that is usually litigated is whether a breach occurred and whether the breach was a proximate case of the injury. A defense often raised is assumption of the risk by the plaintiff, supported where applicable by a signed waiver.\n\nIn about 70% of diving fatalities, drowning is reported as the cause of death, without specifying the reason for drowning. Drowning generally just means that the diver died underwater and there was no physical obstacle to water entering the respiratory passages. It is a diagnosis that is often reached in the absence of a more specific understanding of the sequence of events, and often reached when little effort has gone into the investigation to exclude other possible causes to find out why the diver drowned.\n\nThere is a common misconception and presumption by the general public that someone should have intervened to prevent the drowning, which presupposes that someone should have known it was happening, and was negligent in not taking preventative action. A large amount of litigation is based on the desire to hold someone else accountable, and this is aggravated by the commonly inadequate investigation and vague conclusions regarding the trigger and sequence of events in fatal accidents. Statistic indicate that the majority of diving fatalities are due to error on the part of the victim.\n\nFailure to identify, preserve, and produce critical evidence such as dive computer data can result in sanctions against the responsible party, including findings in favour of the party requesting the lost information. Investigators without a sufficient knowledge of diving equipment have been known to destroy or lose critical evidence through mishandling of equipment, even when it survived rescue and recovery efforts.\n\nIn law, a proximate cause is an event sufficiently related to an injury that the courts deem the event to be the cause of that injury. There are two types of causation in the law: cause-in-fact, and proximate (or legal) cause, which tends to be an act or omission by a person. Legal causation is the \"causal relationship between conduct and result\". In other words, causation provides a means of connecting conduct with a resulting effect, typically an injury, as a means to establishing the scope of liability. In many cases negligence can be attributed to both the plaintiff, or decedent, and the defendants. The degree of negligence established by the court reduces the recovery of damages in that proportion.\n\nIn a claim for damages the plaintiff must convince the court that injury or loss occurred, and that the compensation value claimed is realistic. Damages are likely to be limited to those reasonably foreseeable by the defendant. If a defendant could not reasonably have foreseen that someone might be hurt by their actions, there may be no liability.\n"}
{"id": "180923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180923", "title": "Coinage Act of 1873", "text": "Coinage Act of 1873\n\nThe Coinage Act of 1873 or Mint Act of 1873, 17 Stat. 424, was a general revision of the laws relating to the Mint of the United States. In abolishing the right of holders of silver bullion to have their metal struck into fully legal tender dollar coins, it ended bimetallism in the United States, placing the nation firmly on the gold standard. Because of this, the act became contentious in later years, and was denounced by some as the \"Crime of '73\".\n\nBy 1869, the Mint Act of 1837 was deemed outdated, and Treasury Secretary George Boutwell had Deputy Comptroller of the Currency John Jay Knox undertake a draft of a revised law, which was introduced into Congress by Ohio Senator John Sherman. Due to the high price of silver, little of that metal was presented at the Mint, but Knox and others foresaw that development of the Comstock Lode and other rich silver-mining areas would lower the price, causing large quantities of silver dollars to be struck and the gold standard to be endangered. During the almost three years the bill was pending before Congress, it was rarely mentioned that it would end bimetallism, though this was not concealed. Congressmen instead debated other provisions. The legislation, in addition to ending the production of the silver dollar, abolished three low-denomination coins. The bill became the Act of February 12, 1873, with the signature of President Ulysses S. Grant.\n\nWhen silver prices dropped in 1876, producers sought to have their bullion struck at the Mint, only to learn that this was no longer possible. The matter became a major political controversy that lasted the remainder of the century, pitting those who valued the deflationary gold standard against those who believed free coinage of silver to be necessary for economic prosperity. Accusations were made that the passage of the act had been secured through corruption, though there is little evidence of this. The gold standard was explicitly enacted into law in 1900, and was completely abandoned by the U.S. in 1971.\n\nThe Mint Act of 1792 established the Mint of the United States. The Mint, in its first decades, only coined gold and silver in response to deposits of that metal by citizens, returning the bullion to the depositor in the form of coins. Either gold or silver could be presented for conversion into currency, as both metals were a legal tender, a dollar was equal to both a legally defined weight of silver, and another legally defined quantity of gold. Having a currency be defined in terms of two different metals is called bimetallism. Such a system may experience instability as the price of gold and silver on the world market changes, and this took place in the first decades after 1792, as the relative values of gold and silver in Europe changed. At that time, gold or silver U.S. coins were rarely seen in the nation, as they were heavily exported because of such shifts—most pieces in circulation were foreign in origin.\n\nIn 1834, Congress made a dollar worth slightly less, thus lightening U.S. gold and silver coins (known collectively as specie), making them uneconomical to export, and they were seen more often in commerce within the U.S. With this greater circulation, Congress re-examined the existing statutes relating to the Mint, and found many provisions to be obsolete. It enacted the Mint Act of 1837, a thorough revision of the statutes relating to the Mint. New provisions included the establishment of a bullion fund, allowing depositors to be paid without waiting for their metal to go through the coining process. The ratio of value between equivalent weights of gold and silver was adjusted slightly, allowing coins of both metals to circulate within the U.S.\nWhen silver prices rose relative to gold as a reaction to the California Gold Rush, silver coinage was worth more than face value, and rapidly flowed overseas for melting. Despite vocal opposition led by Tennessee Representative (and future president) Andrew Johnson, the precious metal content of smaller silver coins was reduced in 1853, allowing them to circulate. Until then, depositors of silver could choose to have their bullion struck into silver coins of any denomination of five cents or above; the Act of 1853 lightened the silver coins from the half dime to the half dollar and eliminated the right of the depositor to have silver struck into those denominations. Depositors could still choose to have silver struck into dollar coins, but since there was more than a dollar's worth of silver in a dollar coin, it was more profitable to sell the bullion to manufacturers and jewelers. So long as silver prices remained high, this effectively placed the United States on the gold standard.\n\nAlthough the Mint rarely received deposits of silver for striking into coins after 1853, it purchased silver bullion using the new lightweight silver coins at above-market prices. This was illegal, as Congress had ordered that the new lightweight coins only be purchasable using gold, a provision intended to limit quantities sold to actual demand. As the silver pieces had a legal tender limit of $5, if excessive numbers were circulated, they might choke commerce. This in fact occurred, and merchants and bankers complained that the legal tender limit was causing them to have to sell accumulations at a discount to brokers.\n\nThe glut was replaced with a shortage when most federal coins were hoarded amid the economic chaos of the Civil War. Slowest to vanish was the base-metal cent, which only had value because government said it did, and at that time, confidence in government was shaken. Eventually, it too vanished from circulation and commanded a premium for change. A variety of makeshifts replaced the vanished coins, such as fractional currency and merchant's tokens. Beginning in 1864, Congress began to authorize base metal coins that would not be hoarded. It reduced the weight of the cent, causing it to be made of bronze, and also required a two-cent piece of the same metal. The following year saw the initiation of the three-cent nickel and in 1866, the five-cent nickel (today simply known as the nickel) began production. The two-cent piece, initially popular, saw declining mintages as the public preferred the smaller, more convenient nickel coins.\n\nGreenbacks, which were backed by neither silver nor gold but by the credit of the United States, and which were necessitated by vast wartime expenditures, had helped to finance the war. In the late 1860s, politicians disagreed about how quickly to have the government resume paying out gold and silver in payment of its obligations. Treasury Secretary Hugh McCulloch felt the best way to return to that practice was to withdraw the greenbacks as quickly as possible, and he did so until stopped by Congress, which felt his contractionist stand was hurting the economy. More and more silver was being mined in the Far West. Falls in the price of the metal made the option of depositing silver at the Mint in exchange for coin more attractive, and mintages of the silver dollar rose considerably in the late 1860s and into the 1870s. The silver dollar was fully legal tender, and some officials worried that the increased deposits would cause silver to drive gold from circulation as predicted by Gresham's law, endangering the gold standard.\n\nAs it had been two decades since much silver was regularly deposited for striking into coins, the fact that the United States had been on a bimetallic standard since 1792 was often forgotten. The gold standard was seen as the only possible choice, and many people assumed that the United States was on that standard, which had been adopted by strong nations like the United Kingdom (1816) and the German Empire (1871).\n\nLosses of nearly $250,000 at the San Francisco Mint had concerned the Treasury, and, in 1866, McCullough sent John Jay Knox, a Treasury employee, on a special investigatory mission. Knox found that informalities in transferring bullion between various officers of that mint had led to inconsistent sets of accounts, but due to the lack of receipts kept, it was not possible to pinpoint who was to blame. In 1869, Knox, by then Deputy Comptroller of the Currency, was sent by McCullough's successor George Boutwell to investigate other Mint facilities, discovering severe irregularities and large government losses at the New York Assay Office. Knox again discovered a dearth of proper accounting procedures, and that officials there had trouble finding a copy of the Mint's regulations.\n\nIn 1867, an international monetary conference was held in Paris to discuss how to have gold coins of various countries struck to a common standard. Slight adjustments to the British gold sovereign and to the five-dollar gold piece (or half eagle) would make each equal to 25 francs, and it was proposed that the British and Americans make those changes while France began striking a 25-franc piece. None of this ever came to fruition, but in January 1868, Ohio Senator John Sherman introduced legislation to place the United States formally on the gold standard, to eliminate silver as a legal tender, and to implement the recommendations of the conference.\n\nKnox, in his 1866 report, had recommended a thorough revision of the laws pertaining to the Mint, and in January 1870, Secretary Boutwell instructed him to prepare a draft. In this, Knox had the assistance of former Mint Director Henry Linderman, who then held a roving commission for the Treasury Department; Linderman would in 1873 become the first director of the Bureau of the Mint.\n\nKnox completed a draft bill, intended to repeal many antiquated legal provisions, and to rewrite others. He proposed to eliminate the standard silver dollar (he proposed a lightweight silver dollar that would have a low legal tender limit), move the office of the Director of the Mint from Philadelphia to Washington, eliminate the Mint's charge to strike gold bullion (then .5 percent), and abolish the office of Treasurer at the mints and assay offices, transferring its functions to the superintendent. In drafting the bill, Knox consulted with a number of former Mint officers besides Linderman, such as former directors James Ross Snowden and Robert M. Patterson, as well as former Philadelphia Mint Chief Coiner Franklin Peale. Mint Director James Pollard submitted the bill to Congress on April 25, 1870.\n\nSherman introduced the bill on April 28, 1870, and it was referred to the Senate Finance Committee, of which he was chairman. He did not seek its passage in that session of Congress, as lawmakers were busy with other financial legislation. The bill attracted next to no newspaper attention throughout the period of almost three years it was under consideration, though monetary experts and others watched its progress closely. On January 9, 1871, Sherman brought the bill to the Senate floor for debate. That it abolished the silver dollar, and thus bimetallism, was not discussed, as senators focused on the omission of the coinage charge (the fee for the Mint's services in converting bullion to money). This was of importance to the Senate—especially members from the Far West—because it affected what mining companies and refiners (an important economic interest) could get for their product. Sherman offered an amendment to retain the coinage charge, but it was attacked by Western senators as an unjust tax on miners and refiners of gold, and the amendment was defeated, 26–23. On January 10, the bill passed the Senate, 36–14, with Sherman voting against his own bill. It was then sent to the House of Representatives and referred to the Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures from which it was briefly brought forth on February 25 by Pennsylvania's William D. Kelley, the chairman, before being recommitted to committee. The bill was not considered by the House during the remainder of the 41st Congress, which expired on March 3, 1871, and the Senate-passed bill died with it.\n\nKelley reintroduced the bill in the House when Congress reconvened in December 1871. Chairman Kelley was from Philadelphia, and was influenced by industrialist Joseph Wharton, who owned a nickel refinery in nearby Camden, New Jersey, from which the Mint purchased, without competitive bidding, much of the metal for the three-cent and five-cent base metal coins. The bill at that time proposed that the cent, then made of bronze, be made of nickel alloy as well—when it was debated on January 9, 1872, Wharton's interest was an immediate target. Kelley was quizzed by New York Representative Clarkson Potter, who called the bill \"this Pennsylvania contrivance\" which would give \"a monopoly to the gentleman in Pennsylvania [Wharton].\" Another New Yorker, Dwight Townsend, moved to scuttle the bill in disgust over how long it was taking to pass; his motion on voice vote would have succeeded, but there was no quorum and it failed on a roll call vote. On January 10, Missouri Congressman James R. McCormick, who represented nickel producers in his home state, introduced an amendment for competitive bidding for nickel purchases by the Mint. Rather than accede to McCormick's amendment, Kelley sent the bill back to committee.\n\nWhen the bill was brought back to the House floor on April 9, 1872, it was managed by Massachusetts Representative Samuel Hooper, chairman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency. He went through the bill section by section, and stated the bill would place the United States on the gold standard. In the ensuing debate, other representatives, including Potter and Kelley, showed their understanding of that. The bill now provided for competitive nickel bidding, but was again withdrawn, this time by Hooper, after Kelley accused Potter of trying to benefit New York bullion merchants. This fracas caused other New Yorkers to oppose the bill. On May 27, Hooper presented a substitute bill, which he got passed, 110–13, without it even being read. Among the changes that the House made to Knox's bill were a slight increase in weight of the subsidiary silver coins (the dime, quarter dollar, and half dollar), making a dollar in them weigh .\n\nThe bill then awaited Congress reconvening in December. Early in that month, Secretary Boutwell issued his annual report, calling for the passage of the legislation. On the 16th, the bill was referred to Sherman's committee. It emerged without the plan to make the cent from copper-nickel, and with the lightweight silver dollar replaced with a Trade dollar intended for commerce in the Far East, having limited legal tender status in the U.S. The bill was reported back to the Senate on January 7, 1873. It was debated there on the 17th.\n\nOne topic of discussion was the bill's requirement that an eagle appear on larger U.S. coins. Linderman had requested an amendment to require that gold and silver coins bear a statement of their weight and fineness, which would mean sacrificing the eagle. California's Eugene Casserly opposed the amendment, which was sponsored by Sherman, stating \"it will hardly be possible to think of a half dollar or a quarter dollar as being such a coin without the eagle upon it\". The eagle was saved when the amendment failed, 24 in favor and 26 against. Casserly was less successful with an amendment to remove entirely the reduced coinage charge of .2 percent, which failed. Sherman moved the bill along as quickly as he could, and it passed without a recorded vote. The House initially refused to agree to the Trade dollar; representatives of both houses, led by Sherman and Potter, met in a conference committee, and the House acceded to the Senate amendment for the Trade dollar. The bill passed both houses without further debate, and was signed by President Ulysses S. Grant on February 12, 1873. At no point in its almost three-year journey through the legislative process did the bill provide for the retention of the standard silver dollar, into which depositors could have their bullion coined.\n\nWhen, several years after its passage, the 1873 law became a political issue, some of those involved in enacting it, including Sherman and Linderman, stated that there had been no intent to end bimetallism in the elimination of the authority for private citizens to have silver bullion coined into dollars. They argued that the 1853 legislation had ended the practice of having bullion struck into smaller-denomination coins; the 1873 act simply rectified an omission and eliminated a coin with a low mintage that did not circulate. They were not always consistent in their denials: Boutwell wrote in his memoirs that \"in 1873 I had come to believe that it was wise for every nation to recognize, establish, and maintain the gold standard ... hence it was that I determined to abandon the idea of a double [i.e., bimetallic] standard.\n\nWithin a few years, the idea that the omission of the silver dollar from the Coinage Act had not been with intent to place the United States on the gold standard became the establishment position. Part of this was in reaction against the conspiracy theories that were circulating about the \"Crime of '73\", as advocates of bimetallism called the act. This was accepted by many historians well into the 20th century. Neil Carothers, in his 1930 history of small-denomination U.S. currency, wrote that \"many others have demonstrated that this was not a corrupt or surreptitious action by the enemies of silver. The elimination of the standard silver dollar was simply in the interests of clarifying the coinage law ... Not one party to the passage of the law of 1873 recognized the significance of the abolition of the legally existing double standard.\" According to historian Allen Weinstein, \"Silver's demonetization, according to the traditional account, came as an unplanned if fortunate by-product of a complex and largely technical revision of the mint laws in the Coinage Act of 1873.\"\n\nEconomist Milton Friedman wrote, \"what is not open to question is that the standard silver dollar was omitted from the list of coins to be minted intentionally, in full knowledge of the likely consequences, and in the belief that those consequences were desirable.\" He cited Walter T. K. Nugent's 1968 book, \"Money and American Society, 1865—1880\",\n\nKnox and Linderman were both personally familiar with mining conditions in the Far West. They knew that the amount of bullion produced was only going to increase, and would likely drop the price of silver below the level ($1.2929 per troy ounce) at which the metal in a silver dollar was worth more as bullion than as money. In his explanatory statement accompanying his draft bill, Knox explained the discontinuance of the silver dollar would mean the United States was no longer a bimetallic nation. Boutwell, in his 1872 annual report, urged Congress to end the coinage of silver from private deposits, lest the government take a loss from paying out gold in exchange for the silver dollars, and ultimately having to melt them when they could not be circulated. According to Nugent, \"Were Knox, Linderman, Boutwell, Sherman, and others aware of what they were doing when they planned to drop the silver dollar? It is inconceivable that they were not; Knox's statement was explicit. But did they urge it because they feared a drop in silver prices? No one made an explicit statement to that effect, but it was undoubtedly the case.\"\n\nThe Director of the Mint had always been located at the Philadelphia Mint, with the other mints and assay offices governed by superintendents of whom the director was in charge. The 1873 act moved the office to Washington, where the director supervised the new Bureau of the Mint and remained in charge of all mints and assay offices. The Mint Director required appointment by the president and confirmation by the Senate and served a term of five years (unless removed by the president). Henceforth, the Philadelphia Mint would be under the immediate control of a superintendent, like the other mints. The act also formally made the bureau part of the Department of the Treasury. The Mint of the United States had originally reported directly to the president but over time legislation had made it subject to control by the Treasury Secretary.\n\nLittle change was made to the officers of the mints, other than adding a superintendent for Philadelphia (Pollock would be the first incumbent), and abolishing the office of Treasurer at each facility. In addition to the superintendent, each mint had as officers the Assayer, the Melter and Refiner, and the Coiner; each was required to post a bond to indemnify the government against losses during their tenure of office, and each was responsible for part of the coining process. Philadelphia also had an Engraver (sometimes Chief Engraver), responsible for preparing coinage dies and designs, though the Director of the Mint could, with the agreement of the Treasury Secretary, hire outside artists to design coins. The provision allowing for the hiring of outside artists was inserted at the suggestion of former director Patterson. The act set the salaries and bonding requirements for the officers, and required them to be appointed by the president and confirmed by the Senate, as was the case under both the 1792 and 1837 acts. It also set forth the procedures for appointment of an acting officer or Director of the Mint, in the case of the incumbent's temporary absence.\n\nSections 14 to 16 of the act set forth the coins authorized to be struck by the Mint Bureau. This is the part of the act that would later prove contentious, as it omitted the standard silver dollar, since 1853 the only coin into which depositors of silver bullion could have their metal struck. It did allow for a Trade dollar, of higher weight than the old coin, that depositors could have their silver made into, but the legal tender of this and all silver coins was limited to $5—the old silver dollar had an unlimited legal tender. All gold coins had unlimited legal tender, and the act made provision for the redemption of gold coin abraded below normal weight at full value, if twenty years or more old and if still containing 99.5 percent or more of the authorized weight. Lightweight gold coin that did not meet these qualifications would have the loss in value fall upon the depositor.\n\nAlso eliminated by the 1873 act were the two-cent piece, three-cent silver and half dime. Although the first two coins circulated little, the half dime was still being heavily struck by the San Francisco Mint for use in the Far West, where paper money was disfavored. The coins authorized by the 1873 act were the cent, three-cent nickel, five-cent nickel, dime, quarter, half dollar, Trade dollar, gold dollar, quarter eagle, three-dollar piece, half eagle, eagle, and double eagle.\n\nThe act prescribed the specifications of each coin. No change was made to the bronze composition of the cent. The dime, quarter, and half dollar were made slightly heavier so that a dollar in these coins would weigh , in a nod to the metric system—the five-cent nickel already weighed . It required that the obverse of each American coin be emblematic of Liberty, and that an eagle must appear on the reverse, except for the small-diameter cent, three-cent nickel, five-cent nickel, dime, gold dollar, and three-dollar piece, on which an eagle could not appear. It required the use of the country's name on the reverse, and of \"E Pluribus Unum\" somewhere on the coin. It allowed the motto \"In God We Trust\" to appear on American coinage—continuing permission granted in the Act of March 3, 1865, which had authorized the three-cent nickel. The 1873 law allowed for the redemption of current or obsolete base-metal coinage by the Treasury when presented in lots of $20 or more, continuing a provision enacted in 1871.\n\nFurther provisions in this part of the act allowed depositors of silver bullion to receive their metal back in the form of bars or in Trade dollars. It forbade deposit of silver for striking into other coins, but allowed the Mint, for two years, to purchase silver bullion with silver coins at Philadelphia and at the New York Assay Office. This practice, although illegal under the 1853 act, had long been permitted by Mint Directors.\n\nThe annual Assay Commission met at the Philadelphia Mint in most years from 1797 to 1980, when it was abolished. Consisting of government officials and members of the public, it tested the gold and silver coins issued by the Mint to ensure they met standards.\n\nThe 1837 act had designated the judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the United States Attorney for that district, and the Collector of the Port of Philadelphia as members \"ex officio\" of the Assay Commission. The Coinage Act of 1873 kept the judge as a member, but omitted the other two, substituting the Comptroller of the Currency and the assayer of the New York Assay office. Under the 1837 act, the president was allowed to appoint members of the public each year, and this continued under the new legislation. The 1873 law also prescribed a detailed procedure for taking samples from each delivery by that mint's Coiner, sealing them in envelopes and transmitting them to Philadelphia, where the Assay Commission met each February.\n\nThis part of the Coinage Act also provided as to how the Coiner should settle accounts, for internal testing of coins outside the auspices of the Assay Commission, and continued the bullion fund, allowing depositors of gold or silver to receive coins or other payment without having to wait for the actual metal they had deposited to go through the coining process. The mints were required to have a set of weights conforming to the official weight weighing one troy pound purchased by the U.S. minister in London in 1827, and to have the ones at Philadelphia tested in the presence of the Assay Commission each year.\n\nSections 51 to 53 regulated matters that had proved controversial in past decades. Section 51 required all obverse dies (containing the date on most denominations) to be destroyed at the conclusion of each year. Under Director Snowden in the 1850s, the Mint had restruck rare early-dated coins to sell or exchange with collectors. Medals of a national nature could be struck at Philadelphia under Section 52, but private medals were forbidden. Until 1854, the year in which he was fired by President Franklin Pierce, Peale had conducted a controversial medals business on the premises of the Philadelphia Mint. Section 53 required the bureau's profits from seigniorage to be deposited in the Treasury and forbade the Mint from paying expenses or salaries from that money. Under Director Patterson (retired 1851), the Mint had retained such earnings, and spent them without congressional oversight.\n\nThe assay offices were regulated by sections 54 through 60, under the control of the Director of the Mint. Each office would be governed in a manner similar to the mints, with a superintendent in charge and two subordinate officers: an Assayer and a Melter and Refiner. Sections 61 to 64 forbade counterfeiting, intentional lightening of coins to secure metal, and other offenses, and prescribed the punishments for them. Section 65 is a transition provision, setting an April 1, 1873 effective date, as well as providing that the current Director of the Mint (Pollock) would become superintendent at Philadelphia, and the occupants of the office of Treasurer at each mint (abolished by the legislation) would become Assistant Treasurers of the United States. Section 66 names each mint and assay office, and Section 67 names the legislation as the \"Coinage Act of one thousand eight hundred and seventy-three\".\n\nThe abolition of the half dime, still circulating in the Far West, led to shortages of small change there. Congress tried to address this with the unpopular twenty-cent piece, which was struck for circulation only in 1875 and 1876 and was rejected by the public for its similarity to the quarter dollar. The Western United States was not fully supplied with small change until the Mint began striking cents there in 1908 and five-cent nickels in 1912. The Trade dollar, struck principally to compete with Mexican dollars in the Far East trade, failed to gain full acceptance in the Orient. Many were returned to (or never left) the United States. As they could be purchased at a discount, they were popular among employers, who placed them in workers' pay packets. In 1876, Congress revoked even the limited legal tender status they enjoyed; in 1878, the Mint stopped striking them except for collectors, and even that limited issue ceased after 1885. In 1887, Congress allowed a six-month window during which they could be redeemed for other currency, provided they had not been chopmarked by Asian merchants.\nAs Friedman noted, if the price of silver had remained high, the exclusion of the silver dollar from the 1873 act would have been irrelevant. By 1874, the effect of the new mines in the Far West, and the sale of silver in Germany following its demonetization there, combined to force the price of silver down. Silver producers had not been aware of the statutory change, and only learned of it when they sought to present silver at the mints for coining. According to numismatic historian Don Taxay, \"an agitation followed, during which several pious Congressmen feigned ignorance of the repeal, maintaining it had been worked into the Mint bill surreptitiously.\" One Delaware manufacturer wrote to his senator, Thomas F. Bayard, in 1878, \"at the beginning ... I was totally ignorant of all that related to the silver question—so much in fact that (I find now like almost everyone else not excluding Congressmen!) I did not know Silver had been demonetized.\"\n\nA severe depression, the Panic of 1873, began in the same year as passage of the act, and persisted for much of the decade. Many in the United States came to believe the gold standard too rigid to deal with economic hard times like those, and sought to restore bimetallism. The inflation caused by such a policy would enable debtors to repay what they owed more easily. The price of silver continued to fall—the silver in a dollar in the new metric-weight subsidiary silver coins was worth only $.75 by mid-1876, though the price recovered some after that.\n\nIn early 1875, Congress passed a bill for the resumption of specie payments (that is, in gold and silver coin)—effective in 1879. Friedman stated that had it not been for the 1873 act, resumption would have been on the effective basis of a silver standard, which he viewed as a good thing, allowing for more economic stability and \"almost surely would have avoided\" the downturn of the early 1890s known as the Panic of 1893.\nSupport for bimetallism grew in the 1870s, and resulted in the passage of the Bland–Allison Act of February 28, 1878, over the veto of President Rutherford B. Hayes. This legislation required the Treasury to purchase millions of dollars' worth of silver bullion each month, and coin it into silver dollars—the denomination was restored as a legal tender, except when gold was specified by law or private contract. Renewed support for silver led to the passage of the Sherman Silver Purchase Act of 1890, greatly increasing the silver purchases, and requiring the Treasury to pay for them in banknotes that could be redeemed for gold. Over the next three years, $132,000,000 in gold was withdrawn from the Treasury, and amid another depression President Grover Cleveland secured the repeal of the silver purchase act.\n\nThe free silver movement reached its height with the 1896 campaign of former Nebraska representative William Jennings Bryan, who won the Democratic nomination for president after his Cross of Gold speech, which decried the gold standard, electrified the 1896 Democratic National Convention. Bryan was defeated in the election by former Ohio governor William McKinley, and in 1900, Congress passed the Gold Standard Act, placing that standard into law. The gold standard was departed from for many purposes by President Franklin Delano Roosevelt's New Deal administration, and completely ended by President Richard Nixon in 1971.\n\n\"The Atlanta Constitution\" on April 1, 1873, reported the passage of the Coinage Act. It noted the abolition of the two-cent piece and the authorization of the Trade dollar, but did not mention the ending of the standard silver dollar. There was no widespread objection to the 1873 act until 1876. Several factors combined to bring forth protest then: tight money policies by the Treasury in preparation for the resumption of specie payments, a more precipitous drop in the price of silver than had hitherto been the case, and widespread use of Trade dollars after their rejection in the Chinese market. At the same time, the Comstock Lode and other Western mining areas were producing record amounts of silver. With a depression still ongoing, silver began to be seen as a means of inflating the currency and stimulating the economy.\n\nBeginning in March 1876, former newspaper editor George Weston published letters asserting that bimetallism was mandated by the Constitution, and questioning how the Coinage Act had passed. Sympathetic newspapers began to suggest that the legislation had been enacted through corruption for the benefit of wealthy capitalists. On August 5, 1876, Missouri Congressman Richard P. Bland (soon to be known as \"Silver Dick\") told the House of Representatives, \"The act of February 12, 1873 was a fraud, because its title gave no clue to the real intent of the act. The record shows that the act was stealthily passed, without reconsideration and without debate.\" In 1878, Congressman Kelley, who had introduced the bill into the House, stated, \"I was ignorant of the fact it would demonetize the silver dollar\".\n\nOften blamed by those who deemed the act a crime was British financial writer Ernest Seyd, who had given advice as to the text of the bill, as attested by Congressman Hooper on the House floor in 1872. Seyd, according to this theory, was the agent of a group of British holders of American bonds, who had sent Seyd to America with ₤100,000 (then about $550,000) to bribe congressmen into demonetizing silver. Kelley denied this had taken place, but the story stuck, and became a common belief in the silver movement. In 1890, Seyd's corrupt involvement was asserted on the floor of the House of Representatives by Arkansas's Thomas C. McRae. Seyd was in fact an ardent bimetallist who strongly objected to the American demonetization of silver. He had submitted, at Hooper's request, an analysis of the bill in the course of which he advocated retaining the silver dollar as a legal tender.\n\nThe earliest use of the phrase \"Crime of 1873\" in congressional debate was by Colorado Senator Henry M. Teller, who on July 10, 1890, stated, \"the fight for free coinage [of silver] is on, and it will stay on, too, till the will of the people shall be heard in the enactment of a law that shall put silver back where it belongs and where it would have been but for the blunder or the crime of 1873\". The act had long been referred to as a \"crime\" without the exact phrase being used; in one 1889 speech, Nevada Senator William M. Stewart called it a \"crime\" seven times. He had voted for it in 1873.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2994335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2994335", "title": "Conservator (religion)", "text": "Conservator (religion)\n\nA conservator (from ), was a judge delegated by the pope to defend certain privileged classes of persons – as universities, Catholic religious orders, chapters, the poor – from manifest or notorious injury or violence, without recourse to a judicial process. Conservators were appointed as early as the 13th century.\n\nPope Innocent IV presupposed their existence in the decree from which we first learn their power. Owing to abuses and complaints the Council of Trent limited their jurisdiction, but new controversies, often recurring, caused popes Clement VIII, Gregory XV, and Innocent X to define their privileges more precisely.\n\nTroubles continued to arise, especially concerning the conservators of religious orders. Pope Clement XIII decreed that in missionary countries such officials should no longer be chosen, but that all controversies should be referred to the Holy See. From that time forth conservators fell into practical desuetude.\n\nAccording to law, these officials were to be chosen from among the prelates or dignitaries of cathedral and collegiate churches; later from the synodal judges. When a conservator had been chosen by regular clergy he could not be removed for five years without cause. He had no jurisdiction in cases that required juridical examination. While he took of all complaints against regular clergy, he had no authority to receive those of the regular clergy against others unless they were notorious. In the latter case the conservator decided the question summarily. He could punish with ecclesiastical penalties even high church dignitaries who interfered with his duties. His power was limited, however, to the one diocese in which be had been elected, nor could the same conservator have power in several dioceses.\n\n"}
{"id": "26955697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26955697", "title": "Convening authority (court-martial)", "text": "Convening authority (court-martial)\n\nThe term convening authority is used in United States military law to refer to an individual with certain legal powers granted under either the Uniform Code of Military Justice (i.e. the regular military justice system) or the Military Commissions Act of 2009 (for the Guantanamo military commissions).\n\nThe term \"convening authority\" is used in the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) when referring to an individual whose function is of critical importance in the US military justice system. The persons who may exercise this authority are defined in article 22 () for general court-martial, article 23 () for special court-martial, and article 24 () for summary court-martial. The convening authority decides on the disposition of cases to investigation and trial, and also selects the members of a court-martial.\n\nThe appointees serve as the military judge and members of the \"panel\", which decides the guilt or innocence of a person standing trial before the court-martial or military commission. When an enlisted member is on trial, he or she may demand that enlisted members be included on the panel. The court-martial then reports back to the convening authority their recommended verdict.\n\nUnlike a civilian trial, the convening authority's \"command prerogative\" entitles them to amend or overturn the sentence of a court-martial. However, the convening authority may not set aside a finding of not guilty or increase the severity of a recommended punishment.\n\nWhile normally only exercised in practice by members of the armed forces, six civilian officials can also act as a convening authority: the President, the Secretary of Defense, the three \"service secretaries\" (the Secretary of the Army, Secretary of the Navy, and Secretary of the Air Force), and the Secretary of Homeland Security (when the United States Coast Guard is under the United States Department of Homeland Security and has not been transferred to the Department of the Navy under the Department of Defense).\n\nThe individual in over-all charge of the Guantanamo military commissions is also called the convening authority, and it broadly mirrors the provisions found in the Uniform Code of Military Justice.\nThe first three incumbents were civilian officials, although the first and third incumbents, John D. Altenburg and Bruce MacDonald, were retired military flag officers.\nSusan J. Crawford, the second convening authority, had been a long-term senior civilian lawyer for the Department of Defense, eventually serving as the Inspector General.\n\n"}
{"id": "42299087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42299087", "title": "Copyright status of The Wizard of Oz and related works in the United States", "text": "Copyright status of The Wizard of Oz and related works in the United States\n\nThe copyright status of \"The Wizard of Oz\" and related works is complicated for several reasons. The book series is very long-running, and written by multiple authors, so the books often fall on opposite sides of eligibility for copyright laws. There have also been multiple adaptations across many different media, which enjoy different kinds of copyright protection. The copyright law of the United States has changed many times, and impacted Oz works every time. Currently, twenty-three Oz books and five movies are in the public domain. Nothing else will enter the public domain until 2019 at the earliest. All of the Famous Forty will be in the public domain in 2059, barring another extension of copyright terms.\n\nWhen L. Frank Baum began publishing the Oz books, the copyright law in effect was the Copyright Act of 1831, which provided a 28-year term with a possible fourteen more years upon renewal of the copyright. However, the Copyright Act of 1909 retroactively affected Baum's books, allowing a 28-year renewal for fifty-six total years of copyright protection. The L. Frank Baum Trust renewed the copyright on all of Baum's Oz novels.\n\n\"The Wonderful Wizard of Oz\" was published in 1900, and was the first to enter the public domain in \"1956\". This allowed Reilly & Lee, the publisher of all the other Oz books (as well as Baum's other books) to issue their own edition of \"The Wizard of Oz\", which had previously been published by George M. Hill Company and later by the Bobbs Merill Company after Hill went bankrupt..\n\n\"The Marvelous Land of Oz\", which was published in 1904, followed suit and entered public domain in 1960.\n\nAll of Baum's subsequent Oz books, published between 1907 and 1920, had their copyright extended by subsequent laws. Between 1962 and 1974, Congress passed nine copyright acts extending the copyright one or two years each time (these acts also introduced the rule that rounds the copyright term up to the end of that calendar year). This ensured that all works published after September 1906 (and renewed as necessary) stayed copyrighted until the Copyright Act of 1976 took effect. The 1976 Act extended the renewal to 47 years, meaning works could stay copyrighted for 75 years after publication. Thus, the rest of Baum's Oz books did not enter public domain until the 75-year terms was up. \"Ozma of Oz\" (published in 1907) was the first to enter the public domain in 1983, and the subsequent books followed, with \"Glinda of Oz\" (published in 1920) finally entering the public domain in 1996.\n\nThis accounts for all of the apocryphal Oz books that sprang forth in the 1980s; once more Oz books entered the public domain, it allowed other authors to utilize those elements in their own works.\n\nAll of Baum's other works - non-Oz books, plays, and musicals - are also in the public domain, and have been since 1995 at the latest.\n\nThe first two books written by Ruth Plumly Thompson, \"The Royal Book of Oz\" (published in 1921) and \"Kabumpo in Oz\" (published 1922), entered the public domain 75 years later (1997 and 1998, respectively) pursuant to the Copyright Act of 1976.\nThe next twelve books (\"The Cowardly Lion of Oz\" through \"Speedy in Oz\", published between 1923 and 1934) were still copyrighted when the 1998 Sonny Bono Act extended the copyright term a further twenty years, meaning works would now be copyrighted for 95 years. These twelve books of Thompson's are therefore still copyrighted, and will not begin entering the public domain until 2019. By 2030, all of them will be in the public domain.\n\nThompson did not renew the copyright on her last five canonical books: \"The Wishing Horse of Oz\", \"Captain Salt in Oz\", \"Handy Mandy in Oz\", \"The Silver Princess in Oz\", and \"Ozoplaning with the Wizard of Oz\". Thus, these books entered the public domain 28 years after publication, between 1963 and 1967.\nCongress amended the copyright law in 1992 so there would subsequently be automatic renewals of copyright. Therefore, the copyright on Thompson's deutero-canonical books \"Yankee in Oz\" (published in 1972) and \"The Enchanted Island of Oz\" (published in 1976) will not expire until 2068 and 2072 respectively.\n\nJohn R. Neill's three canonical Oz books – \"The Wonder City of Oz\", \"The Scalawagons of Oz\", and \"Lucky Bucky in Oz\" – were published between 1940 and 1942. Neill's heirs renewed the copyrights, so these books will not enter the public domain until 2036 through 2038, pursuant to the 95-year term.\nA fourth Oz book by Neill – \"The Runaway in Oz\" – was written by Neill in 1943. It was published posthumously in 1995. The 1976 Copyright Act introduced an alternate copyright terms for all works published after 1977, stating that the new copyright term would be fifty years after the death of the author. However, for all works that were published posthumously after 1977, the law treats them as if the author died no sooner than 1977. The Sonny Bono Act upheld this, but increased the term to seventy years after the author's death. Therefore, although Neill died in 1943, The Runaway in Oz will not enter public domain until 2048.\n\nSnow published two canonical Oz books: \"The Magical Mimics in Oz\" in 1946, and \"The Shaggy Man of Oz\" in 1949. The copyright was never renewed on either of these, so they entered the public domain in 1974 and 1977, respectively. They are the last two Oz books that entered the public domain.\n\n\"The Hidden Valley of Oz\" was published by Rachel Cosgrove in 1951, had the copyright renewed, and therefore will enter public domain in 2047.\n\nCosgrove also wrote \"The Wicked Witch of Oz\" in 1954. However, it was not published until 1993. Since it was published after 1977, it will remain copyrighted for seventy years after the author's death. Cosgrove died in 1998, so \"The Wicked Witch of Oz\" will enter public domain in 2069.\n\nThe McGraws' canonical book, \"Merry Go Round in Oz\", was published in 1963. No renewal was needed, so it will enter the public domain in 2059. It will be the last book in the Famous Forty to enter the public domain.\n\nThe McGraws co-wrote another Oz book, \"The Forbidden Fountain of Oz\", which was published in 1980. Its copyright lasts for seventy years after the death of last living author. Lauren McGraw is still alive, so \"The Forbidden Fountain of Oz\" will enter the public domain seventy years after her death. Since it will remain copyrighted until at least 2085, it will be the last deutero-canonical work to enter the public domain.\n\nEloise McGraw wrote \"The Rundelstone of Oz\" by herself, and it was published posthumously in 2001. Since Eloise McGraw died in 2000, it will enter the public domain in 2071.\nAll other Oz books (with the exception of the special cases listed below) are still copyrighted under the current laws of 70 years after author's death.\n\nBaum's son, Frank Joslyn Baum, wrote his own Oz story – \"The Laughing Dragon of Oz\". He tried to get it published by Reilly & Lee, but they refused, and he published it with Whitman Publishing Company in 1934. This was an infringing work at the time – all of the Oz books were still copyrighted, and the rights were held by Frank Baum's mother, Maud Gage Baum.\nBoth Maud Baum and Reilly & Lee sued Frank Baum and Whitman Publishing. The case was settled and \"The Laughing Dragon\" stayed out of print until 2006. However, its copyright was renewed in 1962, so it will remain copyrighted until 2030, per the 95-year term.\n\"The Laughing Dragon of Oz\" was the first high-profile case of infringement on the Oz books, and it would be the first of many.\n\nAlexander Volkov's six Oz books were published in the Soviet Union, so they are subject to Russian copyright law. The first book – \"The Wizard of the Emerald City\" – was published in 1939, when \"The Wizard of Oz\" was still copyrighted. \"The Wizard of the Emerald City\" is an adaptation of \"The Wizard of Oz\", borrowing liberally from the original book without even crediting Baum.\nThe subsequent four books were published between 1963 and 1970, and the last one – \"The Secret of the Deserted Castle\" – was published in 1980. At the time of publication, \"The Wizard of Oz\" and \"The Land of Oz\" were in the public domain, but the other Oz books were still copyrighted. However, Volkov's books are mostly original sequels to \"The Wizard of the Emerald City\", so whether they are infringing or not is difficult to say. Barely any of the elements from later Oz books are featured in Volkov's works, so most likely they were not infringing.\n\nThe Soviet Union did not have international copyright relations until 1973, when it joined the 1971 Paris version of the Universal Copyright Convention. This meant that when \"The Secret of the Deserted Castle\" was published in 1982, it was automatically copyrighted in the United States. However, the UCC did not work retroactively, so Volkov's first five works were not copyrighted in the US.\n\nRussia joined the Berne convention in 1995, which ensured that the US and Russia (and all other member countries) had to retroactively recognize all existing copyrights in the opposite countries. That included Volkov's first five books, which were now copyrighted under US law.\n\nThe copyright lasts for seventy years after the author's death in Russia, as of a 2004 amendment. Volkov died in 1977, so all of his books will enter the public domain in 2048. In the meantime, other Russian authors are continuing Volkov's Oz series, much as American authors posthumously continued Baum's series. Volkov's works received faithful and legitimate English translations by Peter Blystone in 1991, 1993, and 2007.\n\nMarch Laumer infringed on both American and Russian Oz writers, though he never saw any repercussions because his works were not considered significant enough to fight. He published Oz books between 1978 and 1999, but incorporated elements from all the preceding Oz writers, most of whose works were still copyrighted.\n\nHe collaborated with Chris Dulabone to release an English translation of \"The Yellow Fog\" in 1986. The two writers then adapted \"The Seven Underground Kings\" into \"The Underground Kings of Oz\" in 1993. Both of these works, while clearly infringing on Volkov's works, were legal in the US at the time. This preceded Russia's accession to the Berne convention, and the US did not recognize the copyright on any Russian work published before 1973 (\"The Yellow Fog\" and \"The Seven Underground Kings\" were published in 1970 and 1964, respectively).\n\nThe copyright on the 1910 film entered public domain in 1938. Baum's Oz Film Manufacturing Company movies entered public domain in 1942. and then the 1925 Larry Semon movie version of \"The Wizard of Oz\" entered the public domain in 1954. These films remain the only Oz live action movies in the public domain.\n\nThe 1939 version of \"The Wizard of Oz\" is the most well-known adaptation of \"The Wizard of Oz\"; in many respects, its popularity surpassed the original book. Its copyright was renewed in 1967, so it will remain copyrighted for a 95-year term, entering the public domain in 2035. This has caused issues for most subsequent Oz adaptations, especially because WB (the current owners of the copyright), have been very aggressive in protecting the film's copyright. Recently, they went after potential merchandise for the upcoming \"\".\n\nIn a landmark case, WB v. AVELA (2011), the US Eighth Circuit ruled that any visual depictions and aspects of characters in public domain developed solely for the copyrighted movies are under copyright protection. This was significant, because the film is not a particularly faithful adaptation of the book, so much of it is still protected. (In the case, AVELA was utilizing the promotional materials for the film, and the court ruled that those images are not copyrighted and therefore may be used, but only those exact images may be used.)\n\n\"Journey Back to Oz\" was a 1974 animated film that served as an official sequel to the 1939 movie, as well as a very loose adaptation of \"The Land of Oz\" (which was in public domain by then). It is just about the only film that could borrow from the 1939 movie without issue. It was copyrighted in 1971 as it was nearing completion.\n\nThe 1985 film \"Return to Oz\" was based on \"The Land of Oz\" and \"Ozma of Oz\". Disney owned the rights to adapt all of Baum's books except \"The Wizard of Oz\", but this did not matter because by 1985 both \"The Land of Oz\" and \"Ozma of Oz\" were in the public domain.\n\nThe only element that \"Return to Oz\" used from the 1939 movie was the ruby slippers – in the book, the slippers were silver. The ruby slippers had become so iconic due to the MGM movie, Disney paid handsomely for the rights to use them. \n\nThe 2013 film \"Oz the Great and Powerful\" was technically a prequel to the 1939 movie, but it was not allowed to be considered as such. The filmmakers had to toe a fine line between calling the film to mind but not infringing on it. To that end, they had a copyright expert on set to ensure that no infringement occurred.\n\nThe copyright expert had to make sure that the Wicked Witch's shade of green was distinct enough from Margaret Hamilton's shade of green. The expert also ensured that the Emerald City was not too close in appearance to the Emerald City in the 1939 film.\n\nWhile WB and Disney did not engage in a copyright battle, they did file rival trademarks. Disney filed a trademark on \"Oz the Great and Powerful.\" One week later, WB filed its own trademark for \"The Great and Powerful Oz.\" The US Patent and Trademark Office suspended WB's attempt at a trademark because Disney had filed basically the same one a week earlier.\n\nThe Wicked Witch of the West is one of the most iconic villains of modern times. However, the iconic version of the Wicked Witch is Margaret Hamilton's portrayal in the 1939 movie, which is copyrighted. The character of the Wicked Witch from the book is in public domain, but that version of the Wicked Witch is not even green. Most modern portrayals of the Wicked Witch of the West do make her green, because that is how the public thinks of the Wicked Witch, but they all strive to make her appearance somehow distinctive.\nThe Wicked Witch is not given a name in the books, so subsequent authors gave her their own names. All of these names are protected under copyright as part of their respective works, which means new creators have to keep coming up with their own version. Some of the most well-known incarnations of the Wicked Witch of the West are \"Elphaba\" (\"Wicked\"), \"Theodora\" (\"Oz the Great and Powerful\"), \"Zelena\" (\"Once Upon a Time\"), \"Evillene\" (\"The Wiz\"), and \"Azkadellia\" (\"Tin Man\").\nThere are similar issues regarding portrayals of the Wicked Witch of the East, but she is not as prevalent in the public conscious as her Western sister.\n\n"}
{"id": "23589973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23589973", "title": "Czesław Znamierowski", "text": "Czesław Znamierowski\n\nIn 1924–39 and in 1945–65 Znamierowski was professor of law theory at Poznań University. From 1948 he was a member of the Polish Academy of Learning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7746391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7746391", "title": "Denialism", "text": "Denialism\n\nIn the psychology of human behavior, denialism is a person's choice to deny reality, as a way to avoid a psychologically uncomfortable truth. Denialism is an essentially irrational action that withholds the validation of a historical experience or event, when a person refuses to accept an empirically verifiable reality. In the sciences, denialism is the rejection of basic facts and concepts that are undisputed, well-supported parts of the scientific consensus on a subject, in favor of radical and controversial ideas. The terms \"Holocaust denialism\" and \"AIDS denialism\" describe the denial of the facts and the reality of the subject matters, and the term \"climate change denial\" describes denial of the scientific consensus that the climate change of planet Earth is a real and occurring event primarily caused by human activity. The forms of denialism present the common feature of the person rejecting overwhelming evidence and the generation of political controversy with attempts to deny the existence of consensus.\nThe motivations and causes of denialism include religion and self-interest (economic, political, financial) and defence mechanisms meant to protect the psyche of the denialist against mentally disturbing facts and ideas.\n\nAnthropologist Didier Fassin distinguishes between \"denial\", defined as \"the empirical observation that reality and truth are being denied\", and \"denialism\", which he defines as \"an ideological position whereby one systematically reacts by refusing reality and truth\".\n\nPersons and social groups who reject propositions on which there exists a mainstream and scientific consensus engage in \"denialism\" when they use rhetorical tactics to give the appearance of argument and legitimate debate, when there is none. Rick Stoff quoted Chris Hoofnagle—a senior staff attorney at the Samuelson Law, Technology & Public Policy Clinic and a senior fellow at the Berkeley Center for Law and Technology at the UC Berkeley School of Law—as follows:\nIn a 2003 newspaper article, Edwin Cameron—a senior South African judge who has AIDS—described the tactics used by those who deny the Holocaust and by those who deny that the AIDS pandemic is due to infection with HIV. He states that \"For denialists, the facts are unacceptable. They engage in radical controversion, for ideological purposes, of facts that, by and large, are accepted by almost all experts and lay persons as having been established on the basis of overwhelming evidence\". To do this they employ \"distortions, half-truths, misrepresentation of their opponents' positions and expedient shifts of premises and logic.\" Edwin Cameron notes that a common tactic used by denialists is to \"make great play of the inescapable indeterminacy of figures and statistics\", as scientific studies of many areas rely on probability analysis of sets of data, and in historical studies the precise numbers of victims and other facts may not be available in the primary sources.\n\nA 2009 article published in the journal \"Globalization and Health\" also notes \"recourse to data debates and pseudo-scientific 'evidence as a common feature of several types of denialism. This is an area which British historian Richard J. Evans mentioned as part of his analysis of the David Irving's work which he presented for the defence when Irving sued Deborah Lipstadt for libel:\nMark Hoofnagle (brother of Chris Hoofnagle) has described denialism as \"the employment of rhetorical tactics to give the appearance of argument or legitimate debate, when in actuality there is none\". It is a process that operates by employing one or more of the following five tactics in order to maintain the appearance of legitimate controversy:\n\nTara Smith of the University of Iowa also stated that moving goalposts, conspiracy theories, and cherry-picking evidence are general characteristics of denialist arguments, but went on to note that these groups spend the \"majority of their efforts critiquing the mainstream theory\" in an apparent belief that if they manage to discredit the mainstream view, their own \"unproven ideas will fill the void\".\n\nIn 2009 author Michael Specter defined group denialism as \"when an entire segment of society, often struggling with the trauma of change, turns away from reality in favor of a more comfortable lie\".\n\nIf one party to a debate accuses the other of \"denialism\" they are framing the debate. This is because an accusation of denialism is both prescriptive and polemic. Prescriptive because it carries implications that there is truth to the denied claim; polemic since the accuser implies that continued denial in the light of presented evidence raises questions about the other's motives.\n\nSome people have suggested that because denial of the Holocaust is well known, advocates who use the term \"denialist\" in other areas of debate may intentionally or unintentionally imply that their opponents are little better than holocaust deniers. For example, in an essay discussing the general importance of skepticism, Clive James objected to the use of the word denialist to describe climate change skeptics, stating that it \"calls up the spectacle of a fanatic denying the Holocaust\"; and Celia Farber has objected to the term \"AIDS denialists\", arguing that it is unjustifiable to place this belief on the same moral level with the Nazi crimes against humanity. However, Robert Gallo \"et al.\" defended this latter comparison, stating that AIDS denialism is similar to Holocaust denial since it is a form of pseudoscience that \"contradicts an immense body of research\".\n\nEdward Skidelsky, a lecturer in philosophy at Exeter University, has suggested that this is a new use for the word denial and it may have its origins in an old sense of \"deny\", akin to \"disown\" (as in the Apostle Peter denying Jesus), but that its more immediate antecedence is from the Freudian sense of deny as a refusal to accept a painful or humiliating truth. He writes that \"An accusation of 'denial' is serious, suggesting either deliberate dishonesty or self-deception. The thing being denied is, by implication, so obviously true that the denier must be driven by perversity, malice or wilful blindness.\" He suggests that, by the introduction of the word \"denier\" into further areas of historical and scientific debate, \"One of the great achievements of The Enlightenment—the liberation of historical and scientific enquiry from dogma—is quietly being reversed\", and that this should worry liberal-minded people.\n\nThe superseded belief that the Earth is flat, and denial of all of the overwhelming evidence that supports an approximately spheroid globe that rotates around its axis and revolves around the Sun, persists into the 21st century. Modern proponents of flat-Earth cosmology (or flat-earthers) refuse to accept any kind of contrary evidence, dismissing all spaceflights and images from space as hoaxes and accusing all organizations and even private citizens of conspiring to \"hide the truth\". They also claim that no actual satellites are orbiting the Earth, that the International Space Station is fake, and that these are lies from all governments involved in this grand cover-up.\n\nAdherents of the modern flat-Earth model propose that a dome-shaped firmament encloses a disk-shaped Earth. They commonly claim that the Sun is only 3,000 miles above the Earth and that the Moon and the Sun orbit above, but not around, a flat Earth. Modern flat-earthers believe that Antarctica is not a continent but a massive ice flow, with a wall 150 feet or higher, which circles the perimeter of the Earth and keeps everything (including all the oceans' water) from falling off the edge.\n\nFlat-earthers also assert that no one is allowed to fly over or explore Antarctica, despite contrary evidence. According to them, all photos and videos of ships sinking under the horizon and of the bottoms of city skylines and clouds below the horizon, revealing the curvature of the Earth, have been manipulated, CGI, or somehow faked. Therefore, regardless of any scientific or empirical evidence provided, flat-earthers will stubbornly conclude it is fabricated or altered in some way.\n\nWhen linked to other observed phenomena such as gravity, sunsets, tides, eclipses, distances and other measurements that challenge the flat earth model, claimants replace commonly-accepted explanations with piecemeal models that distort how perspective, mass, boyancy, light or other physical systems work. These piecemeal replacements rarely conform with each other, finally leaving many flat-Earth claimants to agree that such phenomena remain \"mysteries\" and more investigation is to be done. In this conclusion, adherents remain open to all explanations except the commonly accepted globular Earth model, shifting the debate from ignorance to denialism.\n\nAIDS denialism is the denial that the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is the cause of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS). AIDS denialism has been described as being \"among the most vocal anti-science denial movements\". Some denialists reject the existence of HIV, while others accept that the virus exists but say that it is a harmless passenger virus and not the cause of AIDS. Insofar as denialists acknowledge AIDS as a real disease, they attribute it to some combination of recreational drug use, malnutrition, poor sanitation, and side effects of antiretroviral medication, rather than infection with HIV. However, the evidence that HIV causes AIDS is scientifically conclusive and the scientific community rejects and ignores AIDS-denialist claims as based on faulty reasoning, cherry picking, and misrepresentation of mainly outdated scientific data. With the rejection of these arguments by the scientific community, AIDS-denialist material is now spread mainly through the Internet.\n\nThabo Mbeki, former president of South Africa, embraced AIDS denialism, proclaiming that AIDS was primarily caused by poverty. About 365,000 people died from AIDS during his presidency; it is estimated that around 343,000 premature deaths could have been prevented if proper treatment had been available.\n\nSome international corporations, such as ExxonMobil, have contributed to \"fake citizens' groups and bogus scientific bodies\" that claim that the science of global warming is inconclusive, according to a criticism by George Monbiot. ExxonMobil did not deny making the financial contributions, but its spokesman stated that the company's financial support for scientific reports did not mean it influenced the outcome of those studies. \"The recycling of this type of discredited conspiracy theory diverts attention from the real challenge at hand: how to provide the energy needed to improve global living standards while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions.\" \"Newsweek\" and \"Mother Jones\" have published articles stating corporations are funding the \"denial industry\".\n\nIn the context of consumer protection, denialism has been defined as \"the use of rhetorical techniques and predictable tactics to erect barriers to debate and consideration of any type of reform, regardless of the facts.\" The Bush Administration's replacement of previous science advisers with industry experts or scientists tied to industry, and its refusal to submit the Kyoto Protocol for ratification due to uncertainties they asserted were present in the climate change issue, have been cited by the press as examples of politically motivated denialism.\n\nReligious beliefs may prompt an individual to deny the validity of the scientific theory of evolution. Evolution is still considered an undisputed fact within the scientific community and in academia, where the level of support for evolution is essentially universal, yet this view is often met with opposition by biblical literalists. The alternative view is often presented as a literal interpretation of the Book of Genesis's creation myth. Many fundamentalist Christians teach creationism as if it were fact under the banners of creation science and intelligent design. Beliefs that typically coincide with creationism include the belief in the global flood myth, geocentrism, and the belief that the Earth is only 6,000-10,000 years old. These beliefs are viewed as pseudoscience in the scientific community and are widely regarded as erroneous.\n\nThere is a scientific consensus that currently available food derived from GM crops poses no greater risk to human health than conventional food, but that each GM food needs to be tested on a case-by-case basis before introduction. Nonetheless, members of the public are much less likely than scientists to perceive GM foods as safe. The legal and regulatory status of GM foods varies by country, with some nations banning or restricting them, and others permitting them with widely differing degrees of regulation.\n\nHowever, opponents have objected to GM foods on grounds including safety. Psychological analyses indicate that over 70% of GM food opponents in the US are \"absolute\" in their opposition, experience disgust at the thought of eating GM foods, and are \"evidence insensitive\".\n\nDespite wide scientific consensus that some animals can experience pain and suffering, this is often denied when it is convenient for people to do so. Such denial occurs for animals on farms, in laboratories, and those used for entertainment, where animals may come to be viewed as commodities. A study in 2013 reported that male undergraduates in the US denied animal suffering to justify eating meat.\n\nThe denial of animal pain and suffering is often inconsistent between related species. Such beliefs have led to the publication of books such as \"Why We Love Dogs, Eat Pigs, and Wear Cows\" written by social psychologist Melanie Joy in which she popularised the term \"carnism\".\n\nDenial of animal pain and suffering can also lead to denial of broader concepts, such as denial of moral status or the existence of \"mind\" in non-human animals. Among those who eat meat, it can lead to their experiencing the meat paradox. Philosopher Marc Bekoff wrote that denialism is a feature of moral thinking about animals, and that there is a \"self-serving disconnect\" between scientific facts and the way some people think about animals.\n\nThe idea that animals might not feel pain goes back to the 17th-century French philosopher, René Descartes, who argued that animals do not experience pain and suffering because they lack consciousness.\n\nThe term has been used with \"Holocaust denialism\" as \"the refusal to accept an empirically verifiable reality. It is an essentially irrational action that withholds validation of a historical experience or event.\" The general class of genocide denial, of which holocaust denial is a subset, is a form of denialism for political reasons.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7440381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7440381", "title": "Digital Society Day", "text": "Digital Society Day\n\nIndia celebrates October 17 as the Digital Society Day.\n\nOctober 17 is significant for the Digital Society in India since it was on October 17, 2000, that Information Technology Act 2000, the first law of the digital society in India was notified. This notification gave for the first time in the country, legal recognition for electronic documents. It also provided a legally recognized method of authentication of electronic documents by means of digital signatures. Additionally, Information Technology Act 2000 recognized Cyber Crimes and prescribed a fast track grievance redressal mechanism for Cyber Crimes.\n\nThese provisions were critical for the development of digital society since it enabled digital contracts to be formed in support of e-commerce and e-governance. It is therefore appropriate that the day be remembered as an important event in the e-history of India.\nCyber Law College was the first organization in India to recognize October 17 as a \"Digital Society Day\" and undertake specific programmes related to the fulfillment of the objectives of the Information technology Act.\nDigital Society Foundation of India, a Charitable Trust promoted by Naavi the founder of Cyber Law College has also started several activities to encourage the participation of the community in creating better awareness of Cyber Laws in India.\n\nOctober 17 also being the Poverty Alleviation Day, and Poverty Alleviation through ICT being the theme of the WSIS, Digital Society Foundation is undertaking projects that would help Digital Society contribute to the alleviation of poverty in rural India.\n\nThe formal celebration of the day started in 2006 at Bangalore where in an event organized by Digital Society Foundation, a trust promoted by Cyber Law College October 17 formally declared as the Digital Society Day by the honourable Judge of Karnataka High Court Sri N Kumar.Since then, this historic day has been commemorated each with activities of interest to the digital society in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "18934661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18934661", "title": "DrinkOrDie", "text": "DrinkOrDie\n\nDrinkOrDie (DoD) was one of the most prestigious underground software piracy group and warez trading network during the 1990s. On December 11, 2001, a major law enforcement raid - known as Operation Buccaneer - forced it to close under criminal charges of infringement. DoD, as a rule, received no financial profit for their activities. The DoD network - which primarily consisted of university undergraduates - was also supported by software company employees, who would leak copies of software and other digital media..DoD was also actively involved in illicit file-trading with other networks.\n\nDrinkOrDie was founded in 1993 in Moscow by a Russian with the handle \"deviator\" aka \"Jimmy Jamez\" and a friend who went by the code name \"CyberAngel.\" By 1995, the group was global with Jimmy Jamez as leader.\n\nOne of its earliest major accomplishments was the Internet release of Windows 95 two weeks before Microsoft released the official version. It is also known for its DoD DVD Speed Ripper released in 1999 shortly before DeCSS. The activity of the DoD group diminished after 1996, and they were not considered major players in the warez scene by 2000.\n\nIn 2001 the group was busted in a U.S. Customs operation called Operation Buccaneer. The global raids were initiated after information was given to United States Customs by James Cudney, known as Bcrea8tiv. Cudney quickly rose up the ranks of DOD council where he spent many years working undercover for US Customs, logging conversations in chat rooms and channels visited on IRC. He also carried out undercover operations in the UK, France, and the US prior to the arrests collecting detailed information on DOD members and members of other online warez groups. e.g., screenames, ftp locations, nationalities. At the time, DrinkOrDie allegedly had two leaders, one in the United States and another in Australia.\n\nCo-leader Hew Raymond Griffiths, known by his handle \"Bandido\", was a British national and long-term Australian resident from Bateau Bay on the Central Coast of New South Wales. He was charged in 2003 with copyright infringement and conspiracy to commit copyright infringement under US legislation. He fought extradition to the US for over 3 years, and was arbitrarily detained by Australia for most of that time.\n\nGriffiths was ultimately unsuccessful and in early February 2007, he was extradited to the US. He pleaded guilty on 20 April 2007 to one count of conspiracy to commit criminal copyright infringement and one count of criminal copyright infringement. On 22 June 2007 Griffiths was sentenced to 51 months in prison for conspiracy to commit copyright infringement. But the US District Court Judge, Claude M Hilton, took into account the almost three years Griffiths had spent in Australian jails while fighting extradition, meaning he only served 15 months in a US jail.\n\nAs a result of Operation Buccaneer, the UK's National Hi-Tech Crime Unit also arrested 6 members living in Britain. Two of them ran a 9-month trial starting in September 2004 at the Central Criminal Court - Old Bailey and were convicted for Conspiracy to Defraud Software Companies and Institutions. Sentences for those convicted ranged from house arrest to 30 months in prison.\n\nApart from Griffiths and the British defendants, others implicated in DoD were Swedish, German, Norwegian, Italian and Finnish nationals. All except Griffiths were dealt with under the copyright or fraud laws of their own country. Griffiths was the only member of the international network to be extradited to the US. This has set an important benchmark in copyright enforcement for the US Department of Justice.\n\n"}
{"id": "1666295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1666295", "title": "Driver License Compact", "text": "Driver License Compact\n\nThe Driver License Compact is an agreement between states in the United States of America. The compact is used to exchange data between motorist's home state and a state where the motorist incurred a vehicular infraction. Not all states are members, and states respond to the data differently.\n\nUnder the Driver License Compact, which is a series of laws within the adopting states in the United States and adopting provinces of Canada, in order for a driver's state to penalize him/her for an out-of-state offense, the driver's state must have the equivalent statute. If the driver's state does not have the statute, no action can be taken. For example, the state of Indiana does not have a careless driving offense whereas Colorado does. If an Indiana licensed driver gets convicted of careless driving in Colorado, the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles takes no action.\n\nThe Driver License Compact came into existence with Nevada becoming the first member in 1960. Organizations in the Western States such as governors came together to cooperate on traffic safety. Under the Beamer Resolution (\"Interstate Compacts for Highway Safety Resolution\"), Public Law 85-684, enacted on August 20, 1958, 72 Stat. 635 (named for Rep. John V. Beamer, R-Indiana), states were automatically given permission to form compacts in the areas of traffic safety. Originally, the Driver License Compact dealt with dangerous driving violations such as drunk driving, reckless driving, commission of a felony involving a motor vehicle and others. Later on, minor violations were included as well. Quite a few states joined in the 1960s but it languished in the 1970s and part of the 1980s. In the late 1980s, there was a push by the AAMVA to get states to join and in the early to mid 1990s, quite a few states joined.\n\nThe Driver License Compact is no longer being pushed by the AAMVA as it is being superseded by the Driver License Agreement (DLA), which also replaces the Non-Resident Violator Compact. However, , there were only three member states to the DLA: Arkansas, Connecticut, and Massachusetts.\n\nGeorgia, Wisconsin, Massachusetts, Michigan, and Tennessee are not members. American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators: Nevada repealed the authorizing legislation in 2007, although it still generally conforms to the agreement through regulations.\n\n\nSome US states share information and act on driving violations in certain Canadian provinces, in a similar way to the compact:\n\n\nThe National Driver Register (NDR) is a computerized database of information about drivers who have had their licenses revoked or suspended, or who have been convicted of serious traffic violations such as driving while impaired by alcohol or other drugs. State motor vehicle agencies provide NDR with the names of individuals who have lost their privilege or who have been convicted of a serious traffic violation. When a person applies for a driver's license the state checks to see if the name is on the NDR file. If a person has been reported to the NDR as a problem driver, the license may be denied.\n"}
{"id": "50246668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50246668", "title": "Elections Act 1958", "text": "Elections Act 1958\n\nThe Elections Act 1958 () is a Malaysian law which enacted to provide for the elections to the Dewan Rakyat and Dewan Undangan Negeri.\n\nThe Elections Act 1958, in its current form (1 December 2011), consists of 6 Parts containing 17 sections and no schedule (including 19 amendments).\n\n"}
{"id": "48670652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48670652", "title": "Executive Magistrate of Bangladesh", "text": "Executive Magistrate of Bangladesh\n\nExecutive Magistrate () is the Magistrate of the executive organ of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. The members of the Bangladesh Civil Service (Administration) i.e. Bangladesh Administrative Service are the Executive Magistrates. They usually exercise vast executive and limited judicial power in their respective jurisdiction. They have been vested power under various sections of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC),1898; Penal Code,1860; Police Regulation,1943 and many others Criminal Acts. Executive Magistrates of Bangladesh are empowered to conduct Mobile Court (Section-5; The Mobile Court Act, 2009) for controlling law and order situation and for ensuring social justice by curving various social problems like food adulteration, eve teasing, narcotics controlling and eviction against illegal occupation of government property.\n\nAccording to the section-10(6)of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC),1898; members of Bangladesh Civil Service(Administration), who are in the capacity of Assistant Commissioner (AC), Upozila Nirbahi Officer (UNO) and Additional Deputy Commissioners(ADC); shall be Executive Magistrate and may exercise the power of Executive Magistrate within their existing respective local areas. Besides, according to the provision of the section-10(5) of CrPC,1898; The Government may, if it thinks expedient or necessary, appoint any persons employed in the Bangladesh Civil Service (Administration) to be an Executive Magistrate and confer the powers of an Executive Magistrate on any such member.\n\nIn every Administrative District, there are following Executive Magistrates:-\n\n(a) District Magistrate (DM): In every district and in every Metropolitan Area, the Government shall appoint as many persons as it thinks fit to be Executive Magistrates and shall appoint one of them to be the District Magistrate.\n\n(b) Additional District Magistrate (ADM):The Government may also appoint any Executive Magistrate to be an Additional District Magistrate, and such Additional District Magistrate shall have all or any of the powers of a District Magistrate under this Code or under any other law for the time being in force, as the Government may direct.\n\n(c) Additional Deputy Commissioner(ADC): All the ADC's in the district are Executive Magistrate.\n\nAccording to the provisions of Schedule-iii of the Code of Criminal Procedure,1898; Ordinary Powers of Executive Magistrate are-\n\n1. Power to arrest, or to direct the arrest of and to commit to custody, a person committing an offence in presence of the Magistrate.(Section-64)\n2. Power to arrest, or to direct the arrest in his presence of a person for whose arrest he can issue warrant.(Section-65)\n\n3. Power to endorse a warrant or to order the removal of an accused person arrested under a warrant section.(Section-83,84,86)\n\n4. Power to cause search by postal and telegraph authority for documents etc. and to detain them.(Section-95)\n\n5. Power to issue search warrant for discovery of persons wrongfully confined.(Section-100)\n\n6. Power to direct search, in his presence of any place for the search of which he can issue search-warrant.(Section-105)\n\n7. Power to require security to keep peace(Section-107).\n\n8. Power to require Security for good behaviour from vagrants and suspected persons (Section-109) \n\n9. Power to require Security for good behaviour from habitual offenders(Section-110)\n\n10. Power to Discharge of sureties(Section-126)\n\n11.Power to command unlawful Assembly to disperse(Section-127)\n\n12.Power to Use of civil force to disperse(Section-128)\n\n13.Power to require military force to be used to disperse unlawful Assembly(Section-130)\n\n14.Power to make orders as to local nuisance(Section-133)\n\n15.Power to issue injunction as immediate measure, in case of public nuisance(Section-142)\n\nThe ordinary powers of an Executive Magistrate are:\n\n1. Power to define local areas within which an Executive Magistrate may exercise his power(Section-10.4)\n\n2. Power to require delivery of letters, telegrams etc.(Section-95.1)\n\n3. Power to issue search warrant for documents in custody of postal or telegraph authority. (Section-96)\n\n4. Power to require Security for good behaviour from persons disseminating seditious matter(Section-108)\n\n5. Power to discharge persons bound to keep peace or to be of good behaviour(Section-124)\n\n6. Power to cancel any bond for keeping the peach or good behaviour(Section-125)\n\n7. Power to prohibit repetition or continuance of public nuisance(Section-143)\n\n8. Power to ORDERS IN URGENT CASES OF NUISANCE OR APPREHENDED DANGER.(Section-144)\n9. Power to make orders etc. in possession cases(Section-147)\n\n10. Power to depute any Executive Magistrate subordinate to him to make the local inquiry,(Section-148)\n\n11. Power to hold inquests sections(Section-174)\n\n12. Power to order preliminary investigation by a police-officer not being below the rank of Sub-Inspector in certain cases(Section-196B)\n\n13. Power to Power to appoint Public Prosecutors(Section-192.2)\n\n14. Power to OF COMMISSIONS FOR THE EXAMINATION OF WITNESSES(Section-503-506)\n\n15. Power to revision of, orders under section 514(Section-515)\n\n16. Power to deal with and dispose of certain properties(Section-518)\n\n17. Power to withdraw and recall cases(Section-528.2)\n\n18. Power to compel restoration of abducted female(Section-552)\n\n\nMobile Court Act,2009 is mainly a procedural Act. Under the provisions of this Act, Executive Magistrate can take cognizance of about one hundred Acts, Ordinances and Orders.\nUnder this Act, an Executive Magistrate can award imprisonment up to two years and can fine as per the provisions of the respective laws. Schedule of Mobile Court Act includes following Acts:\n\n(2) Public Gambling Act, 1867 (Act No. II of 1867);\n\n(3) Sarais Act, 1867 (Act No. XXII of 1867);\n\n(4) Touts Act, 1879 (Act No XVIII of 1879);\n\n(5) Ferries Act, 1885 (Act No.I of 1885);\n\n(6) Railways Act, 1890 (Act No. IX of 1890);\n\n(7) Ports Act, 1908 (Act No. XV of 1908);\n\n(8) Electricity Act, 1910 (Act No. IX of 1910);\n\n(9) Cinematograph Act, 1918 (Act No. II of 1918);\n\n(10) Juvenile Smoking Act, 1919 (Act No. II of 1919);\n\n(11) Poisons Act, 1919 (Act No. XII of 1919);\n\n(12) Cruelty to Animals Act, 1920 (Act No. I of 1920);\n\n(13) Passport Act, 1920 (Act No. XXXIV of 1920);\n\n(14) Cantonments Act, 1924 (Act No. II of 1924);\n\n(15) Highways Act, 1925 (Act No. III of 1925);\n\n(16) Forest Act, 1927 (Act No. XVI of 1927);\n\n(17) Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929 (Act No. XVIII of 1929);\n\n(18) [***]\n\n(19) Places of Public Amusement Act, 1933 (Bengal Act No. X of 1933);\n\n(20) Petroleum Act, 1934 (Act No XXX of 1934);\n\n(21) Criminal Law (Industrial Areas) Amendment Act, 1942 (Act No. IV of 1942);\n\n(22) [***]\n(23) Protection of Ports (Special Measures) Act, 1948 (Act No. XVII of 1948);\n(24) Protection and Conservation of Fish Act, 1950 (East Bengal Act No. XVIII of 1950);\n\n(25) Control of Entry Act, 1952 (Act No. LV of 1952);\n\n(26) Building Construction Act, 1952 (West Bengal Act No. II of 1952);\n\n(27) Control of Essential Commodities Act, 1956 (East Pakistan Act No. I of 1956);\n\n(30) Civil Aviation Ordinance, 1960 (Ordinance No. XXXII of 1960);\n\n(31) Port Authorities Lands and Buildings (Recovery of Possession) Ordinance,1962 (Ordinance No. IX of 1962);\n\n(32) Censorship of Films Act, 1963 (Act No. XVIII of 1963);\n\n(33) Agricultural Produce Markets Regulation Act, 1964 (East Pakistan Act No. IX of 1964);\n\n(34) Pilotage Ordinance, 1969 (Ordinance No. V of 1969);\n\n(35) The Government and Local Authority Lands and Building (Recovery of Possession) Ordinance, 1970 (East Pakistan Ordinance No. XVIIII of 1970);\n\n(36) Pesticides Ordinance, 1971 (Ordinance No. II of 1971);\n\n(37) [***]\n\n(38) Representation of the People Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 155 of 1972) ;\n\n(39) Printing Presses and Publications (Declaration and Registration) Act, 1973 (Act No. XXIII of 1973);\n(40) Bangladesh Wild Life (Preservation) Order,1973 (President's Order No. 23 of 1973);\n\n(41) Territorial Waters and Maritime Zones Act, 1974 (Act No. XXVI of 1974);\n\n(42) Chittagong Port Authority Ordinance, 1976 (Ordinance No. LII of 1976);\n\n(43) Mongla Port Authority Ordinance, 1976 (Ordinance No. LIII of 1976);\n\n(44) Inland Shipping Ordinance, 1976 (Ordinance No.LXXII of 1976);\n\n(45)[***]\n\n(46) Seeds Ordinance, 1977 (Ordinance No. XXXIII of 1977);\n\n(47) Note-Books (Prohibition) Act, 1980 (Act No. XII of 1980);\n\n(48) Medical and Dental Council Act, 1980 (Act No. XVI of 1980);\n\n(49) Public Examinations (Offences) Act, 1980 (Act No. XLII of 1980);\n\n(50) Medical Practice and Private Clinics and Laboratories (Regulation) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No.IV of 1982);\n\n(51) [Drugs Act, 1940 (Act No.XXIII of 1940) Gi sections 29 I 37)];\n\n(52) Standards of Weights and Measures Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. XII of 1982);\n\n(53) [***]\n\n(54) [***]\n\n(55) Fish and Fish Products (Inspection and Quality Control) Ordinance, 1983 (Ordinance No. XX of 1983);\n\n(56) Bangladesh Merchants Shipping Ordinance, 1983 (Ordinance No. XXVI of 1983);\n\n(57) Bangladesh Uniani and Ayurvedic Practitioners Ordinance, 1983 (Ordinance No. XXXII of 1983);\n(58) [***]\n\n(59) Bangladesh Homeopathic Practitioners Ordinance, 1983 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1983);\n(60) Motor Vehicles Ordinance, 1983 (Ordinance \nNo. LV of 1983);\n(61) Breast-Milk Substitutes (Regulation of Marketing) Ordinance, 1984 (Ordinance No. XXXIII of 1984);\n\n(62) [***]\n\n(63) Bangladesh Standards and Testing Institution Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XXXVII of 1985);\n\n(64) [***]\n\n(65) Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1988\n\n(66) Brick Making and Establishment of Knell(Control) Act, 2013\n\n(67) Prevention of Diseases due to the lack of Iodine Act, 1989\n\n(68) Narcotics Control Act,1990\n\n(69) Mineral and Mineral Resources (Control and Development) Act, 1992\n\n(70) Bangladesh Environment Preservation Act,1995\n\n(71) Water Supply and Swearege Authority Act, 1996\n\n(72) Aviation Security and Crime Control Act, 1997\n\n(73) Annexation of Body Organs Act, 1999\n\n(74) [***]\n\n(75) [***]\n\n(76) Acid Control Act, 2002\n\n(77) Safe Blood Circulation Act,2002\n\n(78) Fire Security and Extinction Act, 2003\n\n(79) Birth and Date Registration Act,2004\n\n(80) Smoking and Tobacco Usage (Control) Act,2005\n\n(81) Fertilizer Management Act, 2006\n\n(82) Bangladesh Acriditation Act,2006\n\n(83) Cable Television Neteork Management Act, 2006\n\n(84) Bangladesh Labour Act,2006\n\n(85) Consumer Rights Protection Act, 2009\n\n(86) Upazila Parishad Act, 1998\n\n(87) Local Government (Municipality) Act, 2009\n\n(88) Local Government (City Corporation) Act,2009\n\n(89) Local Government (Union Parishad) Act, 2009\n\n(90) Jute Ordinance,1962\n\n(91) Bangladesh National Anthem, Flag and Emblem Order,1972\n\n(92) Bangladesh Gas Act, 2010\n\n(95) Real State Development and Management Act, 2010\n\n(96) Sand-dung and Soil Management Act,2010\n\n(97) Grafitty and Postering(Control) Act,2012\n\n(98) Wildlife(Preservation and Security) Act,2012\n\n(99) Disaster Management Act,2012\n\n(100) Compulsory Use of Jute Cover for Goods Act, 2010\n\n(101) Overseas Employment and Immigration Act, 2013\n\nEvery police-officer is legally bound to abide by the Police Regulations, any violation of which shall render the violator liable to be prosecuted u/s 29 of the Police Act, 1861. Nevertheless, Courts and Tribunals, particularly the District Magistrate and Executive Magistrates, are also required to follow many provisions of the Police Regulations, 1943.\nThe Police Regulations, 1943 have been published in three volumes. Volume I contains 1290 regulations, volume II contains appendices and forms and volume III contains alphabetically arranged subject wise index of regulations and appendices. It is incumbent upon every Magistrate to go through all regulations and appendices of which the regulations appended hereto are of high importance for the Executive Magistrate.\n\n(a) The Commissioner as the local head of the administration, shall exercise supervision and control over the action of the District Magistrate in police matters.\n(b) An order received from the Commissioner either direct or through the District magistrate shall be promptly executed by the Superintendent, who shall, however, report it through the Deputy Inspector General of the Range to the Inspector General if it is of an unusual nature.\n[§.12,Act v, 1861]\n\n(a) The Deputy Inspector-General of a Range shall keep in close touch with Commissioner and District Magistrates in regard to the maintenance of peace and the prevention and detection of crime in their respective charges and shall do all in his power to establish harmonious co-operation between the police and the magistracy.\n(b) He shall ordinarily communicate with the Commissioner by demi-official or unofficial notes and with District Magistrates through Superintendents but he shall make a point of having personal discussions with them at intervals, e.g., when he visits their Headquarters.\n\n\n(a) The Superintendent is the immediate head of the police force of the district and is responsible for all matters concerning its internal economy and management and for its efficiency and discipline. He is also responsible, subject to the general control of the District Magistrate, for the criminal administration of the district, and for the proper performance by officers subordinate to him of all preventive and executive duties.\n\n(b) The District Magistrate has no authority to interfere in the internal organisation and discipline of the police force, but it is his duty to bring to the notice of the Superintendent all cases in which the conduct and qualifications of a police officer affect the general administration of his district.\n\n(c) The District Magistrate may call for the papers relating to the conduct or character of any police officer of his district and may send them on to the Deputy Inspector-General of the Range for the information of the Inspector-General and Commissioner. He may direct an enquiry to be made into any case of misconduct of a police officer. The Superintendent shall submit to the District Magistrate the papers regarding all serious cases of misconduct and of cases likely to affect the relations of the police with the public.\n\n(d) All orders of the District Magistrate relating to the police except those passed in his judicial capacity, shall be addressed to the Superintendent, or in the event of his absence from Headquarters to the officer in charge during his absence. The Superintendent as the local head of the police under the District Magistrate is bound to carry out his orders except in regard to the internal economy organisation and discipline of the force, and matters of a purely departmental nature.\n\n(e) Should any difference of opinion on any question relating to the police administration arise between the Superintendent and the District Magistrate, it is the duty of the Superintendent to carry out the Magistrate's instructions. The Magistrate shall in such cases forth with refer the matter to the Commissioner and the Superintendent shall similarly make a reference to his Deputy inspector-General. The Commissioner and the Deputy Inspector-General shall consult together and, if possible, arrive at an agreed decision. If they are unable to agree, the matter shall be referred to the Provincial Government through the inspector-General\n\n(f) The District Magistrate, in the exercise of his power of control, shall abstain from any action likely to weaken the authority of the Superintendent or to deprive him of responsibility. For this reason he shall avoid, as far as possible, the issue of executive orders until he has consulted the Superintendent.\n\n(g) No circular or general order dealing with questions of law or procedure other than purely departmental matters may be issued by a Superintendent until it has been approved by the District Magistrate.\n\n(a) The Superintendent shall remain in constant personal communication with the District Magistrate whenever possible, and consult him on all important matters. It is incumbent on him to afford the District Magistrate all possible assistance in the criminal administration of the district, and in such matters he shall, as far as possible, accede to his wishes. Should any question arise on which they do not agree the District Magistrate shall give the Superintendent written orders and the Superintendent will carry them out; but the District Magistrate shall refer the point under dispute, if the Superintendent so desires, to the Deputy Inspector-General when the matter will be settled as laid down in regulation 15 (e).\n\n(b) The Superintendent shall keep the District Magistrate fully informed of all matters coming to his knowledge affecting the peace of the district, and when he is on tour the police officer in charge of Headquarters shall send direct to the District Magistrate all important information which would not reach him soon enough through the Superintendent.\n\n(c) Whenever he is about to leave the station, the Superintendent shall report his intention to the Magistrate, specifying, as far as possible, the places at which he may be found from day to day; and the Magistrate, for reasons to be recorded by him, may require the Superintendent to remain at Headquarters.\n\nCorrespondence between District Magistrates and Superinten¬dents shall be carried on by means of unofficial notes or memoranda. The original file shall be sent for action, when possible, and formal letters shall on no account be written.\n\n\nAll orders on the police, except judicial orders, issued by the office of the District Magistrate shall ordinarily be sent through the Superintendent. This includes orders relating to tours by the District Magistrate and other officers and the provision of supplies by the police. Similarly, orders issued by the Sub-divisional Magistrate shall be sent through the Sub-divisional Police Officer, or if there be no Sub-divisional Police Officer, through the Circle Inspector.\n\n\nThe District Magistrate shall exercise constant supervision over the prevention and detection of crime, for the proper conduct of which he is ultimately responsible. An important part of his duty is to inspect the police-stations of his district at regular intervals. It is not necessary for him to examine the details of the working of the department, but he should give special attention to—\n\n(i) the general diary and the manner in which it is written up;\n\n(ii) the recording of vital statistics;\n\n(iii) the proper working of the Arms Act;\n\n(iv) the methods of collecting crop statistics;\n\n(v) the working of the rural police;\n\n(vi) the general state of crime in the police-station and any reasons for its increase or decrease;\n\n(vii) whether the Sub-Inspector appears to have a proper knowledge of his duties, whether he is in touch with the respectable inhabitants of his charge, has acquired local knowledge, and takes an interest in his work;\n\n(viii) Whether the police-station officials appear to be working properly and have a proper knowledge of their duties and the neighbourhood;\n\n(ix) whether the police-station has been regularly and properly inspected.\n\n\n(a) If the District Magistrate observes in any police officer of or below the rank of Inspector marked incompetence or unfitness for the locality in which he is stationed, or unfitness for his particular duties, he may draw the attention of the Superintendent to the fact and request him to consider the advisability of transferring him to another locality or to other duties. He shall; however, bear in mind that not only are transfers detrimental to police work, but the officer transferred may do as badly or even worse in another place. Unsatisfactory work is as a rule met by punishment and a transfer should not be recommended unless it is likely to improve the criminal administration of the district as a whole.\n\n(b) If the Magistrate observes in any police officer above the rank of Inspector incompetence or unfitness he may communicate with the Inspector-General, who after paying careful attention to the views of the District Magistrate, shall determine what measures should be taken and shall inform the Magistrate of the action which he takes in the matter.\n\n\nPolice officers shall treat all courts and Magistrates with due respect. They shall not make reflections on them in public or insert disparaging criticisms of their acts in departmental reports or similar documents which are or may be published ; but, if a Superintendent has reason to believe that there has been a failure of justice or that police officers have received unfair treatment, he may bring the case to the notice of the District Magistrate either by a formal application presented by the Court officer for action under section 435 of the Code of Criminal Procedure or by an unofficial note or report, the language of which shall be temperate and respectful.\n\n30A. The District Magistrate should consider such application referred to .in regulation 30, note or report and take such action as he thinks fit but he should not transmit to the Magistrate concerned any unofficial notes or reports on the subject.\nEmployment of armed parties. [§.12,Act v, 1861]\n\n\n\n(2) Any District Magistrate or Additional District Magistrate may, if satisfied with respect to any person that with a view to preventing him from doing any prejudicial act within the meaning of section 2(f) (iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (vii) or (viii) it is necessary so to do, make an order directing that such person be detained.\n\n(3) When any order is made under sub-section (2), the District Magistrate or the Additional District Magistrate making the order shall forthwith report the fact to the Government together with the grounds on which the order has been made and such other particulars as, in his opinion, have a bearing on the matter, and no such order shall remain in force for more than thirty days after the making thereof unless in the meantime it has been approved by the Government.\n\n(4) If any person fails to remove himself from Bangladesh in accordance with the direction of an order made under sub-section (1) (b), then, without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (5), he may be so removed by any police officer or by any person authorised by the Government in this behalf.\n\n(5) If any person contravenes any order made under sub-section (1) (b), he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.\n\n\n(1) The District Magistrate 10 or the Police Commissioner in 11 a Metropolitan Area may, subject to the control of the Government, by order direct that, subject to any exemption specified in the order, no person present within any area or areas specified in the order shall, between such hours as may be specified in the order, be out of doors except under the authority of a written permit granted by a specified authority or person.\n\n(2) If any person contravenes any order made under this section, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "603596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603596", "title": "Executorial trustee", "text": "Executorial trustee\n\nAn executorial trustee is someone who is appointed to be an executor (the person who carries out the directions set forth in a will) and also be a trustee of an estate after the executors duties have been completed.\n\nThe role of trustee must be taken at a different time than that of executor, as the position of trustee precludes administration in trust law.\n\nEspecially when dealing with large and lucrative estates this position generally does not exist in many cases so as not to create a conflict of interest. The remedy is usually to have an executor act in an arbitrary fashion and have no financial interest in how the estate will be divided up. This can be problematic, given that in some countries, such as the United States, an executor is automatically entitled to compensation for his or her services.\n\nSee also: trust law, inheritance, executor, trustee,\nwiktionary definition\n"}
{"id": "37510889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37510889", "title": "Expatriation Act of 1907", "text": "Expatriation Act of 1907\n\nThe Expatriation Act of 1907 (59th Congress, 2nd session, chapter 2534, enacted March 2, 1907) was an act of the 59th United States Congress concerning retention and relinquishment of United States nationality by married women and Americans residing abroad. It effectively functioned as Congressional endorsement of the various \"ad hoc\" rulings on loss of United States nationality that had been made by the State Department since the passage of the Expatriation Act of 1868. Some sections of it were repealed by other acts in the early 1920s; those sections which remained were codified at , but those too were repealed by the Nationality Act of 1940.\n\nThe act contained seven sections, the last regarding rules of evidence for matters in the act, and the other six relating to citizenship and passports.\n\nSection 1 provided for the issuance of non-renewable alien's passports of six months' validity to non-citizens who had lived in the United States for three years and had made a declaration of intention to become U.S. citizens. This provision was repealed by the Act of June 4, 1920 (, An Act Making appropriations for the Diplomatic and Consular Service for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1921).\n\nSection 2 contained three grounds for loss of United States citizenship: naturalization in a foreign state, taking an oath of allegiance to a foreign state, or specifically for a naturalized citizen residing for two years in one's foreign state of origin or five years in any other foreign state; it also provided that citizenship could be lost only in peacetime. It was repealed by Section 504 of the Nationality Act of 1940; however, a saving clause in the 1940 Act provided that nothing in that Act would affect the status of those who had already lost citizenship prior to its passage.\n\nThe background of this section goes back to a 1906 recommendation by the House Committee on Foreign Affairs that the State Department form a commission of inquiry on the subject of nationality laws and their relation to US citizens living abroad. Acting Secretary of State Robert Bacon named international law expert James Brown Scott, Minister to the Netherlands David Jayne Hill, and Passports Bureau chief Gaillard Hunt to the commission. Their report was published later that year.\n\nIn addition to the provisions which actually ended up in the Act, the commission had also recommended that persons wishing to re-acquire US citizenship \"be required to comply with the laws applicable to the naturalization of aliens\". However, this was not adopted by Congress. Another difference between the law and the previous practice of the State Department was that any oath to a foreign state became grounds for loss of US citizenship even if no foreign nationality was acquired by that oath. Congress and the State Department were in agreement that loss of citizenship in wartime should not be permitted; this had been a long-standing principle in US law going all the way back to \"Talbot v. Janson\" in 1795, and Secretary of State Hamilton Fish had stated in the 1870s that permitting loss of citizenship in wartime \"would be to afford a cover to desertion and treasonable aid to the public enemy.\"\n\nSection 3 provided for loss of citizenship by American women who married aliens. Section 4 provided for retention of American citizenship by formerly alien women who had acquired citizenship by marriage to an American after the termination of their marriages. Women residing in the US would retain their American citizenship automatically if they did not explicitly renounce; women residing abroad would have the option to retain American citizenship by registration with a US.consul. The aim of these provisions was to prevent cases of multiple nationality among women. Nevertheless, these resulted in significant protests by members of the women's suffrage movement, and just two years after women gained the franchise, they were repealed by the Cable Act of 1922. However, the Cable Act itself continued to provide for the loss of citizenship by American women who married \"aliens ineligible to citizenship,\" namely Asians.\n\nIn 2013, Daniel Swalm, the grandson of a Minnesota woman who had lost U.S. citizenship under Section 3 of the Expatriation Act of 1907 for marrying a Swedish immigrant and died without regaining her citizenship, began lobbying Congress to posthumously restore citizenship to women like his grandmother. He contacted his senator Al Franken, who in 2014 sponsored a resolution () expressing regret for the passage of the 1907 Act. The resolution passed the Senate on May 14.\n\nSection 5 provided that child born abroad to alien parents could acquire U.S. citizenship upon the naturalization of their parents during their minority, once the minor child him or herself began to reside permanently in the U.S. Section 6 provided that children born abroad to U.S. citizen parents would be required to swear an oath of allegiance before a U.S. consul upon reaching the age of majority if they wished to retain U.S. citizenship. Both sections were repealed by Section 504 of the Nationality Act of 1940.\n\nThe Supreme Court first considered the Expatriation Act of 1907 in the 1915 case \"MacKenzie v. Hare\". The plaintiff, a suffragist named Ethel MacKenzie, was living in California, which since 1911 had extended the franchise to women. However, she had been denied voter registration by the respondent in his capacity as a Commissioner of the San Francisco Board of Election on the grounds of her marriage to a Scottish man. MacKenzie contended that the Expatriation Act of 1907 \"if intended to apply to her, is beyond the authority of Congress\", as neither the Fourteenth Amendment nor any other part of the Constitution gave Congress the power to \"denationalize a citizen without his concurrence\". However, Justice Joseph McKenna, writing the majority opinion, stated that while \"[i]t may be conceded that a change of citizenship cannot be arbitrarily imposed, that is, imposed without the concurrence of the citizen\", but \"[t]he law in controversy does not have that feature. It deals with a condition voluntarily entered into, with notice of the consequences.\" Justice James Clark McReynolds, in a concurring opinion, stated that the case should be dismissed for lack of jurisdiction.\n\nIn 1950, the Supreme Court ruled on \"Savorgnan v. United States\". The Expatriation Act of 1907 had been repealed for nearly a decade by that point, but the case concerned a woman who married an Italian man on December 26, 1940 (after the passage of the Nationality Act of 1940, but before its effective date) and then applied for naturalization as an Italian citizen, all while still living in the United States. She later lived in Italy from 1941 to 1945, after the 1940 Act had taken effect. Justice Harold Hitz Burton, writing the majority opinion, reversed the District Court and found that the petitioner had indeed lost U.S. citizenship. His ruling, though it relied primarily on the Nationality Act of 1940, also made reference to the Expatriation Act of 1907. He rejected the petitioner's contention that Section 2 of the Act only resulted in loss of U.S. citizenship when the act of naturalization occurred on foreign soil, and held that it was irrelevant under the Act whether or not the petitioner had intended to renounce her U.S. citizenship by applying for the Italian one. However, he declined to rule on the Government's contention that the petitioner would have lost U.S. citizenship even if she had not taken up residence abroad, writing that \"it is not necessary to determine here whether the petitioner's residence and naturalization are to be tested under the saving clause or under the rest of the Act of 1940\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1915832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1915832", "title": "Hague Congress (1872)", "text": "Hague Congress (1872)\n\nThe Hague Congress was the fifth congress of the International Workingmen's Association (IWA), held from 2–7 September 1872 in The Hague, the Netherlands.\n\nThe Hague Congress is famous for the expulsion of the anarchist Mikhail Bakunin for clashing with Karl Marx and his followers over the role of politics in the IWMA. It marked the end of this organization as a unitarian alliance of all socialist factions (anarchists and Marxists).\n\nThe background to the congress lay in the failure of the Paris Commune in June of the previous year, and in the different lessons drawn from it by the two most prominent members of the International, Karl Marx and Mikhail Bakunin. Marx, in his pamphlet \"The Civil War in France\", believed that the major lesson from the Commune was that it was essential for the proletariat to take control of the State and thus the International had to become a true political party of the proletariat. On the other hand, Bakunin saw the most important element of the Commune as being the Parisian workers' rejection of the State in all its forms and continued to call for a revolutionary alliance of workers and peasants in a decentralized organization.\n\nIn September 1871, the General Council of the International, headed by Marx, held a conference in London at which a series of resolutions were passed, including one (sometimes known as Resolution No.9) which stated: \"That this constitution of the working class into a political party is indispensable in order to ensure the triumph of the social revolution and its ultimate end — the abolition of classes.\" This was seen by many to imply a major change of direction to the content of the International's General Rules.\n\nThe resolution caused a great deal of consternation in many sections of the International, particularly in Italy, French-speaking Switzerland and Spain, as it was seen as a measure which would eliminate the autonomy of local sections and turn the General Council into a centralized political office. The Conference itself was considered irregular by these sections, who believed that decisions of this nature could only have been decided at a regular congress of the International.\n\nIn June 1872, a Congress was convened for 2 September 1872 in The Hague, the agenda for which was to concern a general revision of the organization's General Rules.\n\nThe Hague Congress met from 2 to 7 September 1872 in The Hague, Holland. Marx declared that the proletariat had to take control of the state for a successful revolution, and advocated that the Congress vote to uphold this view. The anarchists naturally objected. Anarchist leaders Mikhail Bakunin and James Guillaume were expelled for protesting after the Congress accepted Marx's proposal. Bakunin was not present at the conference but was expelled in absentia.\n\nAfter the expulsion of Bakunin and James Guillaume from the Hague Congress, the anarchists declared it null and void.\n\nThe anarchist faction (including the Jura federation, and the federations of Spain, Italy and Belgium) then held its own Congress of Saint-Imier, a few days later, from which also emerged the Anarchist St. Imier International.\n\nLater in that year of 1872 Bakunin wrote:\n\nThe legitimacy of this conference has been contested. Mr. Marx, a very able political conniver, doubtless anxious to prove to the world that though he lacked firearms and cannons the masses could still be governed by lies, by libels, and by intrigues, organized his Congress of the Hague in September 1872. Barely two months have passed since this congress and already in all of Europe (with the exception of Germany where the workers are brainwashed by the lies of their leaders and their press) and its free federations – Belgian, Dutch, English, American, French, Spanish, Italian – without forgetting our excellent Jura Federation [Switzerland] – there has arisen a cry of indignation and contempt against this cynical burlesque which dares to call itself a true Congress of the International. Thanks to a rigged, fictitious majority, composed almost exclusively of members of the General Council, cleverly used by Mr. Marx, all has been travestied, falsified, brutalized. Justice, good sense, honesty, and the honor of the International brazenly rejected, its very existence endangered – all this the better to establish the dictatorship of Mr. Marx. It is not only criminal – it is sheer madness. Yet Mr. Marx who thinks of himself as the father of the International (he was unquestionably one of its founders) cares not a whit, and permits all this to be done! This is what personal vanity, the lust for power, and above all, political ambition can lead to. For all these deplorable acts Marx is personally responsible. Marx, in spite of all his mis-deeds, has unconsciously rendered a great service to the International by demonstrating in the most dramatic and evident manner that if anything can kill the International, it is the introduction of politics into its program.\nAnd:\n\nIs it not astonishing that Mr. Marx has believed it possible to graft onto this precise declaration, which he himself probably wrote, his scientific socialism? For this – the organization and the rule of the new society by socialist savants – is the worst of all despotic governments!\n"}
{"id": "4350180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4350180", "title": "Human–animal marriage", "text": "Human–animal marriage\n\nHuman–animal marriage is a marriage between a (non-human) animal and a human. This topic has appeared in mythology and magical fiction. In the 21st century there have been numerous reports from around the world of humans marrying their pets and other animals. Human–animal marriage is often seen in accordance with zoophilia, however they are not necessarily linked. Although animal-human marriage is not mentioned specifically in national laws, the act of engaging in sexual acts with an animal is illegal in many countries under animal abuse laws.\n\nThe practice of animal-human marriage has made appearances in several mythological stories and folklore, and is often understood to mean a deity-human marriage involving gods or heroes. The Chinese folktale 'The Goddess Of The Silkworm' is an example of a tale where a woman marries a horse. A similar Irish legend tells of a king who marries a horse, symbolizing a divine union between the king and the goddess of the land. Also the indigenous Cheyenne have a story of animal-human marriage in 'The Girl who Married a dog'. In addition, there are many Native American stories about people who married animals. In these Native American myths, animal spirits frequently assume human form. They are not seen as literal animals, but representatives from the animal kingdom.\n\nAlthough it is uncertain if there is a legal basis for marrying an animal, several individuals claim to have done so. The Sudanese goat marriage incident made big headlines in 2006 when a man was forced to marry a goat after being caught in a sexual interaction with the goat. Other reports of marriage include animals such as dogs, cats, frogs and a dolphin. Other incidents of human animal relations took place in 2010, when 18-year-old Balinese man Ngurah Alit was found having sexual intercourse with a cow, who he claimed flirted with him. As part of a Pecaruan ritual, the man was forced to marry the animal. The ceremony was thought to cleanse the village of the immoral act of bestiality. The cow was drowned in the ocean, while Alit was symbolically drowned as well.\n\n"}
{"id": "38312461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38312461", "title": "Indian Law and Order Commission", "text": "Indian Law and Order Commission\n\nThe Indian Law and Order Commission (ILOC) is a federal commission established by the U.S. Congress in the Tribal Law and Order Act, (Pub.L. 111-211, H.R. 725, 124 Stat. 2258, enacted July 29, 2010), in Section 235 of the Act. Its chairman is Hon. Troy Eid.\n\nThe nine-member commission is charged with conducting a comprehensive study of law enforcement and criminal justice in tribal communities, and submitting a report to the President and Congress with its findings, conclusions and recommendations for, among other things, simplifying jurisdiction in Indian country, improving services and programs to prevent juvenile crime on Indian land, to rehabilitate Indian youth in custody, to reduce recidivism among Indian youth, as well as adjustments to the penal authority of tribal courts and alternatives to incarceration.\n\nAppointments to the Commission were made in 2010 and allocated by the TLOA to the President, 3 members; the Majority Leader of the Senate, 2 members; the Senate Minority Leader, 1 member; the Speaker of the House of Representatives, 2 members; and the House Minority Leader, 1 member. The nine members appointed, alphabetically, with their appointing authority are:\n\n\nThe Indian Law and Order Commission held its first in-person session on Wednesday, April 6, 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "13275030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13275030", "title": "Inquiry into a Sustainability Charter", "text": "Inquiry into a Sustainability Charter\n\nOn Wednesday 5 September 2007, the Australian House of Representatives Environment and Heritage Committee presented, to the Speaker, its report on the inquiry into a sustainability charter entitled \"Sustainability for survival: creating a climate for change\".\n\nA key recommendation within this report was to restate the need for a national Sustainability Commission headed by a Sustainability Commissioner that was previously recommended in the Sustainable Cities Report published in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "56783362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56783362", "title": "Institute of the Right of Peace and Development - IDPD", "text": "Institute of the Right of Peace and Development - IDPD\n\nThe Institute of the Right of Peace and Development (IDPD, French: \"Institut du droit de la paix et du développemen\"t) is a French research institute in the field of international law located in Nice, France. \n\nIDPD was established by René-Jean Dupuy (former president of Hague Academy of International Law) in 1968, and a brainchild of the University of Nice Sophia Antipolis. It proposes MA, and Ph.D level programmes in various fields of international law and European law, including international security, functioning of international organizations, law of the sea and space law.\n\nConsidering the aims it pursues, the Institute works in close collaboration with other international organisations, such as International Institute of Humanitarian Law, Sanremo or Hague Academy of International Law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30870726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30870726", "title": "Judicial interpretation", "text": "Judicial interpretation\n\nJudicial interpretation refers to different ways that the judiciary uses to interpret the law, particularly constitutional documents and legislation. This is an important issue in some common law jurisdictions such as the United States, Australia and Canada, because the supreme courts of those nations can overturn laws made by their legislatures via a process called judicial review. \n\nFor example, the United States Supreme Court has decided such topics as the legality of slavery as in the Dred Scott decision, and desegregation as in the \"Brown v Board of Education\" decision, and abortion rights as in the \"Roe v Wade\" decision. As a result, how justices interpret the constitution, and the ways in which they approach this task has a political aspect. Terms describing types of judicial interpretation can be ambiguous; for example, the term \"judicial conservatism\" can vary in meaning depending on what is trying to be \"conserved\". One can look at judicial interpretation along a continuum from judicial restraint to judicial activism, with different viewpoints along the continuum.\n\nIn the United States, there are different ways to do judicial interpretation:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5395361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5395361", "title": "Judicial officer", "text": "Judicial officer\n\nA Judicial officer is a person with the responsibilities and powers to facilitate, arbitrate, preside over, and make decisions and directions in regard to the application of the law.\n\nJudicial officers are typically categorized as judges, magistrates, puisne judicial officers such as justices of the peace or officers of courts of limited jurisdiction; and notaries public and commissioners of oaths. The powers of judicial officers vary and are usually limited to a certain jurisdiction.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, Judicial officers refer to District judges and Magistrates. They are appointed by the Judicial Service Commission.\n\nIn Kuwait, Judicial Officers are sworn law enforcement agents with the capacity to enforce the law within their speciality, an example would be The Environment Public Authority's environmental Judicial Officers, which function, effectively, as an Environmental judicial police force that enforces the country's environmental law. \n"}
{"id": "507285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=507285", "title": "Layoff", "text": "Layoff\n\nA layoff is the temporary suspension or permanent termination of employment of an employee or, more commonly, a group of employees (collective layoff) for business reasons, such as personnel management or downsizing an organization. Originally, \"layoff\" referred exclusively to a temporary interruption in work, or employment but this has evolved to a permanent elimination of a position in both British and US English, requiring the addition of \"temporary\" to specify the original meaning of the word. A layoff is not to be confused with wrongful termination. \"Laid off workers\" or \"displaced workers\" are workers who have lost or left their jobs because their employer has closed or moved, there was insufficient work for them to do, or their position or shift was abolished (Borbely, 2011). Downsizing in a company is defined to involve the reduction of employees in a workforce. Downsizing in companies became a popular practice in the 1980s and early 1990s as it was seen as a way to deliver better shareholder value as it helps to reduce the costs of employers (downsizing, 2015). Indeed, recent research on downsizing in the U.S., UK, and Japan suggests that downsizing is being regarded by management as one of the preferred routes to help declining organizations, cutting unnecessary costs, and improve organizational performance. Usually a layoff occurs as a cost-cutting measure.\n\nEuphemisms are often used to \"soften the blow\" in the process of firing and being fired. The term \"layoff\" originally meant a temporary interruption in work (and usually pay). The term became a euphemism for permanent termination of employment and now usually means that, requiring the addition of \"temporary\" to refer to the original meaning. Many other euphemisms have been coined for \"(permanent) layoff\", including \"downsizing\", \"excess reduction\", \"rightsizing\", \"leveraging synergies\", \"delayering\", \"smartsizing\", \"redeployment\", \"workforce reduction\", \"workforce optimization\", \"simplification\", \"force shaping\", \"recussion\", and \"reduction in force\" (also called \"RIF\", especially in the government employment sector). \"Mass layoff\" is defined by the United States Department of Labor as 50 or more workers laid off from the same company around the same time. \"Attrition\" implies that positions will be eliminated as workers quit or retire. \"Early retirement\" means workers may quit now yet still remain eligible for their retirement benefits later. While \"redundancy\" is a specific legal term in UK labour law. When an employer is faced with work of a particular type ceasing or diminishing at a particular location, it may be perceived as obfuscation. Firings imply misconduct or failure while layoffs imply economic forces beyond the employer's and employees' control, especially in the face of a recession such as the one that began in the late 2000s.\n\nRIF - A generic reduction in force, of undetermined method. Often pronounced like the word \"riff\" rather than spelled out. Sometimes used as a verb, as in \"the employees were pretty heavily \"riffed\"\".\n\neRIF – Layoff notice by email.\n\nIRIF - Involuntary reduction in force - The employee(s) did not voluntarily choose to leave the company. This usually implies that the method of reduction involved either layoffs, firings, or both, but would not usually imply resignations or retirements. If the employee is fired rather than laid off, the term \"with cause\" may be appended to indicate that the separation was due to this employee's performance and/or behavior, rather than being financially motivated.\n\nVRIF - Voluntary reduction in force - The employee(s) did play a role in choosing to leave the company, most likely through resignation or retirement. In some instances, a company may exert pressure on an employee to make this choice, perhaps by implying that a layoff or termination would otherwise be imminent, or by offering an attractive severance or early retirement package. Conversely, the company is not obliged to accept an employees decision and may not accept every employee who volunteers for a VRIF.\n\nWFR - Work force reduction.\n\nFollowing the recession of 2007-2008, the public sector has seen significantly smaller job growth in employment versus the private sector and layoffs have been used to ensure sustainability. As the public sector declines the demand for services from the private sector decline as well. Layoffs in the public sector have put limitations on the growth rate of the private sector, inevitably burdening the entire flow of markets.\n\nThe risk of being laid off varies depending on the workplace and country a person is working in. Unemployment compensation in any country or workplace typically has two main factors. The first factor of unemployment compensation depends on the distribution of unemployment benefits in a workplace outlined in an employee handbook. The second factor is the risk of inequality being conditioned upon the political regime type in the country an employee is working in. For example, in Canada, Dorion (1995) states that white-collar workers who have been made redundant receive higher re-employment wages, than those in blue-collar occupations as their job is regarded as being of a higher status than blue collar workers, whereas in France, Margolis (1999, 2002) finds that workers who have been laid off have smaller unemployment periods and higher re-employment earnings in comparison with other unemployed people. The amount of compensation will usually depend on what level the employee holds in the company.\n\nPackages may also vary if the employee is laid off, or voluntarily quits in the face of a layoff (VRIF). The method of separation may have an effect on a former employee's ability to collect whatever form of unemployment compensation might be available in their jurisdiction. In many U.S. states, workers who are laid off can file an unemployment claim and receive compensation. Depending on local or state laws, workers who leave voluntarily are generally ineligible to collect unemployment benefits, as are those who are fired for gross misconduct. Also, lay-offs due to a firm's moving production overseas may entitle one to increased re-training benefits. Some companies in the United States utilize Supplemental Unemployment Benefits. Since they were first introduced by organized labor and the Department of Labor in the early 1950s, and first issued in a Revenue Ruling by the IRS in 1956, SUB-Pay Plans have enabled employers to supplement the receipt of state unemployment insurance benefits for employees that experience an involuntary layoff. By establishing severance payments as SUB-Pay benefits, the payments are not considered wages for FICA, FUTA, and SUI tax purposes, and employee FICA tax. To qualify for SUB-Pay benefits, the participant must be eligible for state unemployment insurance benefits and the separation benefit must be paid on a periodic basis. There have also been increasing concerns about the organizational effectiveness of the post-downsized ‘anorexic organization’. The benefits, which organizations claim to be seeking from downsizing, center on savings in labor costs, speedier decision making, better communication, reduced product development time, enhanced involvement of employees and greater responsiveness to customers (De Meuse et al. 1997, p. 168). However, some writers draw attention to the ‘obsessive’ pursuit of downsizing to the point of self-starvation marked by excessive cost cutting, organ failure and an extreme pathological fear of becoming inefficient. Hence ‘trimming’ and ‘tightening belts’ are the order of the day.\n\nTraditionally, layoffs directly affect the employee. However, the employee terminated is not alone in this. Layoffs affect the workplace environment and the economy as well as the employee. Layoffs have a widespread effect and the three main components of layoff effects are in the workplace, to the employee, and effects to the economy.\n\nEffects of layoffs in the workplace: Layoffs have remained the greatest way for a company to cut costs. Although from the employer's perspective a layoff is beneficial for the business, layoffs create an uncertainty in the workplace environment and lowers other employees' job security as well as creates an apprehension and fear of termination for the remaining employees, and subsequently lowers overall motivation in the workplace environment. According to \"Healing the Wounds: Overcoming the trauma of Layoffs and Revitalizing Downsized Organizations,\" in the post-layoff environment, there is a need for empathy, tangibility, self-knowledge, and relentlessly seeking customers among the surviving employees. The remaining employees may have feelings of survivors guilt. In order to diminish negative effects of layoffs, Wayne Cascio suggests alternative approaches to layoff and downsizing as \"Responsible restructuring\" approach. Optimism is critical for rebuilding the workplace environment because employees look to their leaders for stability and predictability. No matter the position in an organization, employees will look for job security.\n\nEffects of layoffs to the employee: Employees (or former employees in this case) can be affected in a couple of different ways. When an employee is laid off, his or her general trust in long-term work may decrease, reducing expectations upon rehire. After an employee withstands a layoff, the effects can trickle into future employment and attitudes. Layoffs in the workplace often leave the former employee less inclined to trust future employers which can lead to behavioral conflicts among co-workers and management. Despite new employers not being responsible for a prior circumstances, job performance may still be affected by prior layoffs. Many companies work to make layoffs as minimally burdensome to the employee. At times employers may layoff multiple people at once to soften the impact.\n\nEffects of layoffs in the American economy: Layoffs create lower job security overall, and an increased competitiveness for available and opening positions. Layoffs have generally two major effects on the economy and stockholders. The way layoffs affect the economy varies from the industry that is doing the layoffs and the size of the layoff. If an industry that employs a majority of a region (freight in the northeast for example) suffers and has to lay employees off, there will be mass unemployment in an economically rich area. This can have leave ripple effects nationwide. Unemployment is the biggest effect on the economy that can come from layoffs.\n\nIn francophone Belgium, the term Procédure Renault has become a synonym for the consultation process leading to mass redundancies, due to a controversial mass layoff and resultant legislation in the late 1990s. When an employee has been laid off in Australia their employer has to give them redundancy pay, which is also known as severance pay. The only time that a redundancy payment doesn’t have to be paid is if an employee is casual, working for a small business or has worked for a business for less than twelve months. The redundancy compensation payment for employees depends on the length of time an employee has worked for an employer which excludes unpaid leave. If an employer can’t afford the redundancy payment they are supposed to give their employee, once making them redundant, or they find their employee another job that is suitable for the employee. An employer is able to apply for a reduction in the amount of money they have to pay the employee they have made redundant. An employer can do this by applying to the Fair Work Commission for a redundancy payment reduction. A layoff is also known as a retrenchment in (South African English). In the UK, permanent termination due to elimination of a position is usually called redundancy. Certain countries (such as Belgium, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Italy, France and Germany), distinguish between leaving the company of one's own free will, in which case the person is not entitled to unemployment benefits, but may receive a onetime payment and leaving a company as part of a reduction in labour force size, in which case the person is entitled to them. A RIF reduces the number of positions, rather than laying off specific people, and is usually accompanied by internal \"redeployment\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1493026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1493026", "title": "Maysville Road veto", "text": "Maysville Road veto\n\nThe Maysville Road veto occurred on May 27, 1830, when United States President Andrew Jackson vetoed a bill that would allow the federal government to purchase stock in the Maysville, Washington, Paris, and Lexington Turnpike Road Company, which had been organized to construct a road linking Lexington to Maysville on the Ohio River (Maysville being located approximately 66 miles/106 km northeast of Lexington), the entirety of which would be in the state of Kentucky. Its advocates regarded it as a part of the national Cumberland Road system. Congress passed a bill in 1830 providing federal funds to complete the project. Jackson vetoed the bill on the grounds that federal funding of intrastate projects of this nature was unconstitutional. He declared that such bills violated the principle that the federal government should not be involved in local economic affairs. Jackson also pointed out that funding for these kinds of projects interfered with paying off the national debt.\n\nProponents of internal improvements, such as the development of roads and bridges, argued that the federal government had an obligation to harmonize the nation's diverse, and often conflicting, sectional interests into an \"American System.\" Jackson's decision was heavily influenced by his Secretary of State Martin Van Buren. Some authors have described the motives behind the veto decision as personal, rather than strictly political. The veto has been attributed to a personal grudge against Henry Clay, a political enemy and resident of Kentucky, as well as to preserve the trade monopoly of New York's Erie Canal, in Van Buren's case.\n\nSupporters of the bill insisted on the project's national significance. This particular project was intended to be a part of a much larger interstate system extending from Zanesville, Ohio, to Florence, Alabama. If the highway as a whole was of national significance, they argued, surely the individual sections must be as well. They looked to the Supreme Court decision handed down six years before in \"Gibbons v. Ogden\", in which the court confirmed the power to regulate commerce among the states including those portions of the journey which lay within one state or another. Additionally, the road connected the interior of Kentucky to the Ohio River, and therefore served as the main artery for the transportation of goods. Kentucky Representative Robert Letcher made this argument regarding the road's connection to the rest of the nation:\n\nThe road designed to be improved is intended to intersect at the great national road in the State of Ohio. It connects itself also on each side with the Ohio River. These two connections most certainly and justly entitle it to the appellation of a national work.\n\nMoreover, the federal government had provided funding for other intrastate projects when they benefited the rest of the nation. As Representative Coleman stated:\n\nBut gentlemen say, every inch of the Maysville road is in the State of Kentucky. How can it be national? I answer, every inch of the Delaware Canal, sixteen miles in length, is in the State of New Jersey; and every inch of the Louisville Canal is in one county; nay, I believe in one city. How can they be national? Yet, Congress have subscribed for stock in both of them.\n\nThese arguments were all intended to illustrate the road's overwhelming national significance. Opponents responded that this line of argument would establish that every road was a national road; there would be no limit to federal power.\n\nJackson believed that federal money should only be spent when carrying out Congress' enumerated powers. President Thomas Jefferson employed a broad view of the spending power when he carried out the Louisiana Purchase and the construction of the Cumberland Road. In contrast, President James Madison, the \"Father of the Constitution”, viewed this type of spending as unconstitutional, as evidenced by his veto of the Bonus Bill of 1817. Jackson sided with Madison's view and felt that Jefferson's broad view of the spending power was not enough to justify passage of the bill before him.\nOne of Jackson's main arguments against the bill was the project's provincial nature. It was understood that Congress could only fund projects which benefited the nation as a whole, but the Maysville project was \"purely local matter:\"\n\nIt has no connection with any established system of improvements; is exclusively within the limits of a State, starting at a point on the Ohio River and running out 60 miles to an interior town, and even as far as the State is interested conferring partial instead of general advantages.\n"}
{"id": "18772757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18772757", "title": "Onward ticket", "text": "Onward ticket\n\nAn onward ticket is a proof of a booked train, bus or airline ticket originating from the country about to be entered.\n\nAn onward ticket reflects any of these:\n\nAn onward ticket can be required, based on the countries' entry requirements (which may or may not include the onward ticket). Many countries insist a flight ticket be held out from their country, which must be presented upon arrival at immigration. They set this requirement, so that if travellers run out of money, the country is certain that the traveller can depart. In the past, travellers would remain in a country supporting themselves by illicit employment. Without an onward ticket, a traveller may be refused entry to these countries and subsequently placed on the next plane for the destination from where he arrived. \n\nHowever, there are also many states that do not operate this policy and are less strict in the application of the law of the countries' customs. To determine which do and do not, guide books, websites of the own Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the relevant embassies and/or other sources may be used.\n\n"}
{"id": "30850009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30850009", "title": "Ornelas v. United States", "text": "Ornelas v. United States\n\nOrnelas v. United States, 517 U.S. 690 (1996), was a case decided by the Supreme Court of the United States that held that appellate courts should review probable cause determinations for warrantless searches de novo.\n\nIn December 1992, Detective Pautz of the Milwaukee Sheriff's Department was conducting drug interdiction when he noticed a 1981 two door Oldsmobile with California plates. Pautz radioed his dispatcher to check the registration of the car, and he ran the name of the owner, Miguel Ledesma Ornelas, through the Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs Information System (NADDIS). NADDIS reported that Ornelas was a heroin dealer. Two more officers arrived on the scene. An officer asked Ornelas if he had any contraband in the car, and Ornelas responded negatively. Detective Hurrle requested permission to search the car, and Ornelas consented. Deputy Luedke searched the car and noticed a loose door panel with a rusty screw. Deputy Luedke removed the panel and found two kilograms of cocaine. Ornelas and his accomplice, Ismael Ornelas-Ledesma, were arrested.\n\nOrnelas filed a motion to suppress in the District Court. The court found that the officers had probable cause to remove the door panel and denied the motion. Ornelas was convicted and appealed to the Seventh Circuit. The Seventh Circuit reviewed the District Court's determination of probable cause on a deferential clear error standard and affirmed the conviction. The Supreme Court granted certiorari.\n\nWriting for a majority of eight Justices, Chief Justice Rehnquist noted that the Supreme Court itself had never expressly deferred to the probable cause determination of lower courts. The Court reasoned that deferential appellate review could cause varied and inconsistent results, and that it would hinder the clarification of the law. De novo review would unify precedent and provide clearer guidance for police. The Court held that probable cause determinations for warrantless searches should be reviewed de novo, but also that \"an appeals court should give due weight to a trial court's finding that the officer was credible and the inference was reasonable.\" Ornelas' conviction was vacated and the case was remanded to the Seventh Circuit. \n\nJustice Scalia dissented, arguing that probable cause determinations are necessarily fact intensive and unsuited to de novo review by an appellate court. Scalia also noted that true de novo review was inconsistent with giving due weight to police inferences.\n\nOn remand in the Seventh Circuit the court reviewed the probable cause determination de novo and affirmed the conviction.\n\n\"Ornelas\" was initially viewed as a victory for criminal defendants because de novo review was thought to be more critical and searching than deference to the District Court. David Sklansky, however, suggests that the \"due weight\" given police inferences is actually more favorable to law enforcement than a clear error standard for reviewing District Court determinations.\n\n"}
{"id": "606589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606589", "title": "Paragraph 175", "text": "Paragraph 175\n\nParagraph 175 (known formally as §175 StGB; also known as Section 175 in English) was a provision of the German Criminal Code from 15 May 1871 to 10 March 1994. It made homosexual acts between males a crime, and in early revisions the provision also criminalized bestiality as well as forms of prostitution and underage sexual abuse. All in all, around 140,000 men were convicted under the law.\n\nThe statute drew legal influence from previous measures, including those undertaken by the Holy Roman Empire and Prussian states. It was amended several times. The Nazis broadened the law in 1935; in the prosecutions that followed, thousands died in concentration camps as a widespread social persecution of homosexuals took place.\n\nParagraph 175 was adopted in 1871, shortly after Germany was unified. Beginning in the 1890s, sexual reformers fought against the \"disgraceful paragraph\", and soon won the support of August Bebel, head of the Social Democratic Party (SPD). However, a petition in the Reichstag to abolish Paragraph 175 foundered in 1898. In 1907, a Reichstag Committee decided to broaden the paragraph to make lesbian sexual acts punishable as well, but debates about how to define female sexuality meant the proposal languished and was abandoned. In 1929, another Reichstag Committee decided to repeal Paragraph 175 with the votes of the Social Democrats, the Communist Party (KPD) and the German Democratic Party (DDP); however, the rise of the Nazi Party prevented the implementation of the repeal. Although modified at various times, the paragraph remained part of German law until 1994.\n\nIn 1935, the Nazis broadened the law so that the courts could pursue any \"lewd act\" whatsoever, even one involving no physical contact, such as masturbating next to each other. Convictions multiplied by a factor of ten to over 8,000 per year by 1937. Furthermore, the Gestapo could transport suspected offenders to concentration camps without any legal justification at all (even if they had been acquitted or already served their sentence in jail). Thus, over 10,000 homosexual men were forced into concentration camps, where they were identified by the pink triangle. The majority of them died there.\n\nWhile the Nazi persecution of homosexuals is reasonably well known today, far less attention has been given to the continuation of this persecution in post-war Germany. In 1945, after the concentration camps were liberated, some homosexual prisoners were recalled to custody to serve out their two-year sentence under Paragraph 175. In 1950, East Germany abolished Nazi amendments to Paragraph 175, whereas West Germany kept them and even had them confirmed by its Constitutional Court. About 100,000 men were implicated in legal proceedings from 1945 to 1969, and about 50,000 were convicted. Some individuals accused under Paragraph 175 committed suicide. In 1969, the government eased Paragraph 175 by providing for an age of consent of 21. The age of consent was lowered to 18 in 1973, and finally, in 1994, the paragraph was repealed and the age of consent lowered to 14, the same that is in force for heterosexual acts. East Germany had already reformed its more lenient version of the paragraph in 1968, and repealed it in 1988.\n\nMost sodomy-related laws in Western civilization originated from the growth of Christianity during Late Antiquity. In 1532, the Constitutio Criminalis Carolina produced a foundation for this principle of law, which remained valid in the Holy Roman Empire until the end of the 18th century. In the words of Paragraph 116 of that code:\n\nThe punishment for fornication that goes against nature. cxvj. When a human commits fornication with a beast, a man with a man, a woman with a woman, they have also forfeited life. And they should be, according to the common custom, banished by fire from life into death.\n\nIn 1786 the Austrian-born Peter Leopold of Tuscany abolished the death penalty for all crimes (including sodomy) and replaced it with prison and hard labour. In 1794, Prussia introduced the \"Allgemeines Landrecht\", a major reform of laws that replaced the death penalty for this offense with a term of imprisonment. Paragraph 143 of that code says:\n\nUnnatural fornication, whether between persons of the male sex or of humans with beasts, is punished with imprisonment of six months to four years, with the further punishment of a prompt loss of civil rights.\n\nIn France, the Revolutionary Penal Code of 1791 punished acts of this nature only when someone's rights were injured (i.e., in the case of a non-consensual act), which had the effect of the complete legalization of homosexuality.\n\nIn the course of his conquests, Napoleon exported the French Penal Code beyond France into a sequence of other states such as the Netherlands. Bavaria, too, adopted the French model and in 1813 removed from its lawbooks all prohibitions of consensual sexual acts.\n\nIn view of these developments, two years before the 1871 founding of the German Empire, the Prussian kingdom, worried over the future of the paragraph, sought a scientific basis for this piece of legislation. The Ministry of Justice assigned a \"Deputation für das Medizinalwesen\" (\"Deputation for medical knowledge\"), including, among others, the famous physicians Rudolf Virchow and Heinrich Adolf von Bardeleben, who, however, stated in their appraisal of March 24, 1869 that they were unable to give a scientific grounding for a law that outlawed zoophilia and male homosexual intercourse, distinguishing them from the many other sexual acts that were not even considered as matters of penal law.\n\nNevertheless, the draft penal law submitted by Bismarck in 1870 to the North German Confederation retained the relevant Prussian penal provisions, justifying this out of concern for \"public opinion\".\n\nOn January 1, 1872, exactly one year after it had first taken effect, the penal code of the North German Confederation became the penal code of the entire German Empire.\nBy this change, sexual intercourse between men became again a punishable offence in Bavaria as well. Almost verbatim from its Prussian model from 1794, the new Paragraph 175 of the imperial penal code specified:\n\nUnnatural fornication, whether between persons of the male sex or of humans with beasts, is punished with imprisonment, with the further punishment of a prompt loss of civil rights.\n\nEven in the 1860s, individuals such as Karl Heinrich Ulrichs and Karl Maria Kertbeny had unsuccessfully raised their voices against the Prussian paragraph 143. In the Empire, more organized opposition began with the 1897 founding of the sexual-reformist Wissenschaftlich-humanitäres Komitee (WhK, Scientific-Humanitarian Committee), an organization of notables rather than a mass movement, which tried to proceed against Paragraph 175 based on the thesis of the innate nature of homosexuality.\n\nThis case was argued, for example, in an 1897 petition drafted by physician and WhK chairman Magnus Hirschfeld, urging the deletion of Paragraph 175; it gathered 6,000 signatories. One year later, SPD chairman August Bebel brought the petition into the Reichstag, but failed to achieve the desired effect. On the contrary, ten years later the government laid plans to extend Paragraph 175 to women as well. Part of their \"Scheme for a German Penal Code\" (E 1909) reads:\n\nThe danger to family life and to youth is the same. The fact that there are more such cases in recent times is reliably testified. It lies therefore in the interest of morality as in that of the general welfare that penal provisions be expanded also to women.\n\nAllowing time for the refinement of the draft, it was set to appear before the Reichstag no earlier than 1917. World War I and the defeat of the German Empire consigned it to the dustbin.\n\nThere was a vigorous grassroots campaign against Paragraph 175 between 1919 and 1929, led by an alliance of the Gemeinschaft der Eigenen and the Wissenschaftlich-humanitäre Komitee. But, much as during the time of the Empire, during the Weimar Republic the parties of the left failed to achieve the abolition of Paragraph 175, because they lacked a majority in the Reichstag.\n\nThe plans of a center-right regime in 1925 to increase the penalties of Paragraph 175 came closer to fruition; but they, too, failed. In addition to paragraph 296 (which corresponded to the old paragraph 175), their proposed reform draft provided for a paragraph 297 to be included. The plan was that so-called \"qualified cases\" such as homosexual prostitution, sex with young men under the age of 21, and sexual coercion of a man in a service or work situation would be classified as \"severe cases\", reclassified as felonies (\"Verbrechen\") rather than misdemeanors (\"Vergehen\"). This act would have pertained not only to homosexual intercourse but also to other homosexual acts such as, for example, mutual masturbation.\n\nBoth new paragraphs grounded themselves in protection of public health:\n\nIt is to be assumed that it is the German view that sexual relationships between men are an aberration liable to wreck the character and to destroy moral feeling. Clinging to this aberration leads to the degeneration of the people and to the decay of its strength.\n\nWhen this draft was discussed in 1929 by the judiciary committee of the Reichstag, the Social Democratic Party, the Communist Party, and the left-wing liberal German Democratic Party at first managed to mobilize a majority of 15 to 13 votes against Paragraph 296. This would have constituted legalization of consensual homosexuality between adult men. At the same time, a vast majoritywith only three KPD votes dissentingsupported the introduction of the new Paragraph 297 (dealing with the so-called \"qualified cases\").\n\nHowever, this partial successwhich the WhK characterized as \"one step forward and two steps back\"came to nought. In March 1930, the \"Inter-Parliamentary Committee for the Coordination of Criminal Law Between Germany and Austria\", by a vote of 23 to 21, placed back Paragraph 296 in the reform package. But the latter was never passed, because during the last years of the Weimar Republic, the years of the \"\", the parliamentary legislative process generally ground to a halt.\n\nIn 1935 the Nazis strengthened Paragraph 175 by redefining the crime as a felony and thus increasing the maximum penalty from six months' to five years' imprisonment. Further, they removed the longtime tradition that the law applied only to penetrative intercourse. A criminal offense would now exist if \"objectively the general sense of shame was offended\" and subjectively \"the debauched intention was present to excite sexual desire in one of the two men, or a third\". Mutual physical contact was no longer necessary.\n\nBeyond thatmuch as had already been planned in 1925a new Paragraph 175a was created, punishing \"qualified cases\" as \"schwere Unzucht\" (\"severe lewdness\") with no less than one year and no more than ten years in the penitentiary. These included:\n\"Unnatural fornication with a beast\" was moved to Paragraph 175b.\n\nAccording to the official rationale, Paragraph 175 was amended in the interest of the moral health of the \"Volk\"the German peoplebecause \"according to experience\" homosexuality \"inclines toward plague-like propagation\" and exerts \"a ruinous influence\" on the \"circles concerned\".\n\nThis aggravation of the severity of Paragraph 175 in 1935 increased the number of convictions tenfold, to 8,000 annually. Only about half of the prosecutions resulted from police work; about 40 percent resulted from private accusations (\"Strafanzeige\") by non-participating observers, and about 10 percent were denouncements by employers and institutions. So, for example, in 1938 the Gestapo received the following anonymous letter:\n\nWea large part of the artists' block [of flats or studios] at Barnaywegask you urgently to observe B., living with Mrs. F as a subtenant, who has remarkable daily visits from young men. This must not continue. [...] We ask you cordially to give the matter further observation.\n\nIn contradistinction to normal police, the Gestapo were authorized to take gay men into preventive detention (\"Schutzhaft\") of arbitrary duration without an accusation (or even after an acquittal). This was often the fate of so-called \"repeat offenders\": at the end of their sentences, they were not freed but sent for additional \"re-education\" (\"Umerziehung\") in a concentration camp. Only about 40 percent of these pink triangle prisonerswhose numbers amounted to an estimated 10,000survived the camps. Some of them, after their release by the Allied Forces, were placed back in prison, because they had not yet finished court-mandated terms of imprisonment for homosexual acts.\n\nIn the Soviet Occupied Zone that later became East Germany (\"see History of Germany since 1945\"), the development of law was not uniform. The Provincial High Court in Halle (\"Oberlandesgericht Halle, or OLG Halle\") decided for Saxony-Anhalt in 1948 that Paragraphs 175 and 175a were to be seen as injustice perpetrated by the Nazis, because a progressive juridical development had been broken off and even been reversed. Homosexual acts were to be tried only according to the laws of the Weimar Republic.\n\nIn 1950, one year after being reconstituted as the German Democratic Republic, the Berlin Appeal Court (\"Kammergericht Berlin\") decided for all of East Germany to reinstate the validity of the old, pre-1935 form of Paragraph 175. However, in contrast to the earlier action of the OLG Halle, the new Paragraph 175a remained unchanged, because it was said to protect society against \"socially harmful homosexual acts of qualified character\". In 1954, the same court decided that Paragraph 175a, in contrast to Paragraph 175, did not presuppose acts tantamount to sexual intercourse. Lewdness (\"Unzucht\") was defined as any act that is performed to arouse sexual excitement and \"violates the moral sentiment of our workers\".\n\nA revision of the criminal code in 1957 made it possible to put aside prosecution of an illegal action that represented no danger to socialist society because of lack of consequence. This removed Paragraph 175 from the effective body of the law, because at the same time the East Berlin Court of Appeal (\"Kammergericht\") decided that all punishments deriving from the old form of Paragraph 175 should be suspended due to the insignificance of the acts to which it had been applied. On this basis, homosexual acts between consenting adults ceased to be punished, beginning in the late 1950s.\n\nOn July 1, 1968, the GDR adopted its own code of criminal law. In it § 151 StGB-DDR provided for a sentence up to three years' imprisonment or probation for an adult (18 and over) who engaged in sexual acts with a youth (under 18) of the same sex. This law applied not only to men who have sex with boys but equally to women who have sex with girls.\n\nOn August 11, 1987 the Supreme Court of the GDR struck down a conviction under Paragraph 151 on the basis that \"homosexuality, just like heterosexuality, represents a variant of sexual behavior. Homosexual people do therefore not stand outside socialist society, and the civil rights are warranted to them exactly as to all other citizens.\" One year later, the Volkskammer (the parliament of the GDR), in its fifth revision of the criminal code, brought the written law in line with what the court had ruled, striking Paragraph 151 without replacement. The act passed into law May 30, 1989. This removed all specific reference to homosexuality from East German criminal law.\n\nAfter World War II, the victorious Allies demanded the abolition of all laws with specifically National Socialist content; however, they left it to West Germany to decide whether or not the expansion of laws regulating male homosexual relationships falling under Paragraph 175 should be left in place. On May 10, 1957 the Federal Constitutional Court upheld the decision to retain the 1935 version, claiming that the paragraph was \"not influenced by National Socialist [i.e., Nazi] politics to such a degree that it would have to be abolished in a free democratic state\".\n\nBetween 1945 and 1969, about 100,000 men were indicted and about 50,000 men sentenced to prison. The rate of convictions for violation of Paragraph 175 rose by 44 percent, and in the 1960s, the number remained as much as four times higher than it had been in the last years of the Weimar Republic. Many arrests, lawsuits, and proceedings in Frankfurt in 1950–1951 had serious consequences:\n\nA nineteen-year-old jumped off the Goetheturm after having received a summons, another fled to South America, another to Switzerland, a dental technician and his friend poisoned themselves with coal gas. In total there were six known suicides. Many of the accused lost their jobs.\n\nSimilar to the thinking during the Nazi Regime, the government argued that there was a difference between a homosexual man and a homosexual woman, and because all men were more aggressive and predatory than women, lesbianism would not be criminalized. While lesbianism violated nature, it did not present the same threat to society as did male homosexuality.\n\nFirst convening in 1954, the legal experts in the criminal code commission (Strafrechtskommission) continued to debate the future of Paragraph 175; while the constitutional court ruled it was not unconstitutional, this did not mean it should forever remain in force. It was therefore the commission's job to advise the Ministry of Justice and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer about the new form this law should take. While they all agreed homosexual activity was immoral, they were divided when it came to whether or not it should be allowed to be practiced between consenting adults in private. Due to their belief that homosexuals were not born that way, but rather, they fell victim to seduction, the Justice Ministry officials remained concerned that if freed from criminal penalty, adult homosexuals would intensify their \"propaganda and activity in public\" and put male youth at risk.\nDuring the administration of Chancellor Konrad Adenauer's government, a draft penal code for West Germany (known as \"Strafgesetzbuch E 1962\"; it was never adopted) justified retaining paragraph 175 as follows:\n\nConcerning male homosexuality, the legal system must, more than in other areas, erect a bulwark against the spreading of this vice, which otherwise would represent a serious danger for a healthy and natural life of the people.\n\nWith new national Bundestag (West Germany's parliament) elections coming up, the Social Democratic Party was coming into power, first in 1966 as part of a broad coalition, and by 1969, with a parliamentary majority. With the Social Democrats holding the power, they were finally in a position to make key appointments in the Ministry of Justice and start implementing reform. In addition, demographic anxieties such as fear of declining birth rate no longer controlled the 1960s and homosexual men were no longer seen as a threat for not being able to reproduce. The role of the state was seen as protecting society from harm, and should only intervene in cases that involved force or the abuse of minors.\n\nOn June 25, 1969, shortly before the end of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU)SPD Grand Coalition headed by CDU Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger, Paragraph 175 was reformed, in that only the \"qualified cases\" that were previously handled in §175asex with a man less than 21 years old, homosexual prostitution, and the exploitation of a relationship of dependency (such as employing or supervising a person in a work situation)were retained. Paragraph 175b (concerning bestiality) also was removed.\n\nWith the 1969 reform in place, the acceptance of homosexual acts or homosexual identities for West Germans was far from in place. Most reformers agreed that decriminalizing sexual relations between adult men was not the same as advocating an acceptance of homosexual men. While the old view of \"militarized\" masculinity may have phased out, \"family-centered\" masculinity was now grounded in the traditional male, and being a proper man meant being a proper father, which was believed at the time to be a role a homosexual male could not fulfill.\n\nOn November 23, 1973, the social-liberal coalition of the SPD and the Free Democratic Party passed a complete reform of the laws concerning sex and sexuality. The paragraph was renamed from \"Crimes and misdemeanors against morality\" into \"Offenses against sexual self-determination\", and the word \"Unzucht\" (\"lewdness\") was replaced by the equivalent of the term \"sexual acts\". Paragraph 175 only retained sex with minors as a qualifying attribute; the age of consent was lowered to 18 (compared to 14 for heterosexual sex).\n\nIn 1986 the Green Party and the first openly gay member of the German parliament tried to remove Paragraph 175 together with Paragraph 182. This would have meant a general age of consent of 14 years. This was opposed by the CDU, SPD, and FDP, and Paragraph 175 remained a part of German law for eight more years.\n\n In the course of reconciling the legal codes of the two German states after 1990, the Bundestag had to decide whether Paragraph 175 should be abolished entirely (as in the former East Germany) or whether the remaining West German form of the law should be extended to what had now become the eastern portion of the Federal Republic. In 1994, at the end of the period of reconciliation of laws, it was decidedespecially in view of the social changes that had occurred in the meantimeto strike Paragraph 175 entirely from the legal code.\n\nAccording to § 176 StGB the absolute minimum age of consent is now 14 years for all sexual acts irrespective of the sex of the participants; in special cases, covered in § 182 StGB, an age of 16 years applies. § 182 (2) StGB allows for prosecution as an \"Antragsdelikt\", a concept in German law according to which certain acts are treated as crimes only if the victim chooses to become a complainant. Further, § 182 (3) StGB allows the public prosecutor's office to pursue a case on the basis of the belief that there is a special public interest. Finally, § 182 (4) StGB allows the court to refrain from punishment if the wrongness of the accused's behavior appears small.\n\n§ 182 StGB contains numerous terms without precise legal definitions; critics have raised concerns that families can misuse this law to criminalize socially disapproved sexual relationships (e.g. a family disapproving of a young person's homosexual relationship might be able prosecute their partner).\n\nIn Austria, an analogous situation exists: Like the German § 175 StGB, the Austrian § 209 StGB was stricken from the legal code; like the German § 182 StGB, the Austrian § 207b StGB is perceived by critics as having potential to be abused as a surrogate for the stricken law.\n\nOn May 17, 2002a date chosen symbolically as \"17.5\"the Bundestag passed a supplement to the Act of Abolition of National Socialism (\"NS-Aufhebungsgesetzes\"). By this supplement to the act, Nazi-era convictions of homosexuals and deserters from the Wehrmacht were annulled. The right-conservative CSU-politician Norbert Geis called this general amnesty a \"dishonor\" referring, however, only to the defectors of the Wehrmacht, not to homosexuals. Louder criticism came from the lesbian and gay movement, because the Bundestag left post-1945 judgments untouched, although the legal basis from the end of the war to 1969 was the same as in the Nazi era.\n\nThe issue of pardoning men convicted in the postwar era remained controversial. On May 12, 2016, Federal Minister of Justice, Heiko Maas, announced that Germany was investigating the possibility of pardoning and compensating all gay men convicted under Paragraph 175. In cases where victims had died still bearing a conviction, the government will instead make payments to gay rights groups. This was confirmed on October 8, 2016, when Maas laid out the compensation scheme and announced that the government was setting aside €30 million to cover claims. The law comprises both individual pardons and a collective pardon and the documenting of suffering caused by the law, with the full process expected to take up to five years. Those affected by the pardon can apply for a \"vindication certificate\", and relatives can apply for a posthumous pardon. Each person convicted will receive €3,000 compensation, plus €1,500 for each year spent in custody as a result of a conviction under Paragraph 175 – on average, a conviction carried a two-year sentence. Bundestag Member Volker Beck, who was a key figure in establishing a compensation fund for victims of Nazism, suggested that other losses suffered as a result of conviction under Paragraph 175, such as the loss of a job and resulting reduction in pension, should also be taken into account when deciding how much compensation to offer. In June 2017, the law was passed in Bundestag by an overwhelming majority in all parties.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4263683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4263683", "title": "Police (Scotland) Act 1857", "text": "Police (Scotland) Act 1857\n\nThe Police (Scotland) Act 1857 (20 & 21 Vict c 72) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It was one of the Police (Scotland) Acts 1857 to 1890. The legislation made the establishment of a police force mandatory in the counties of Scotland, and also allowed existing burgh police forces to be consolidated with a county force.\n\nThe Commissioners of Supply for each county were required to form a Police Committee to administer a police force for their area. The committee was to consist of not more than 15 commissioners, plus the Lord Lieutenant and Sheriff of the county (or their deputies). The police force forces were to come into existence on 15 March 1858.\n\nA Chief Constable was to be appointed to each police force by the committee. It was, however, permitted for two or more adjoining counties to appoint a single chief constable. The chief constable was to run the day-to-day activities of the force, and to appoint and dismiss constables. He was also to appoint a deputy chief constable to act in his absence.\n\nThe commissioners of supply were to levy a \"police assessment\" or special rate to finance the constabulary. They were also permitted to divide a county into Police Districts, with constables allocated to each district, and a separate assessment to be paid in each area.\n\nConstables of a county police force were to have full powers within their county, which was to include for policing purposes any detached parts of other counties locally situate within it. Similar provisions were made in regard to sherriffs and justices of the peace. They had jurisdiction in all harbours, lochs and bays, and in burghs within the county, and in any adjoining county.\n\nConstables in Berwickshire, Dumfriesshire and Roxburghshire were permitted to serve warrants in the counties of Cumberland and Northumberland across the English border.\n\nAn Inspector of Constabulary was to be appointed to ensure that an efficient police system was being operated by the various forces in Scotland. He was to certify annually that each force was being effectively, making it eligible to payment of one quarter of its costs by the treasury.\n\nAccording to the Inspector's first report in 1859, 32 counties and 57 burghs had established police forces.\n\nA number of burghs had established police forces, either under the Burgh Police (Scotland) Act 1833 or by local Acts. The magistrates and town council of a burgh could agree with the commissioners of supply of a county to consolidate the burgh force with the county police. One or more members of the town council would be appointed to the county police committee in this case.\n\nConversely, the Act allowed any burgh which had not yet established a police force to do so within six months of the passing of the Act.\n\nBurgh forces were also to be subject to inspection, but those unconsolidated burghs with a population of 5,000 or less were not permitted to avail of central government funds.\n\nThe Act did not automatically extend to Orkney and Shetland, although it could be applied by Order in Council on the request of the Sheriff of the county.\n\nThe Act did not affect any police forces employed by railway or canal companies, or established by local act of parliament.\n"}
{"id": "27169260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27169260", "title": "Prosecutor Princess", "text": "Prosecutor Princess\n\nProsecutor Princess () is a 2010 South Korean television series starring Kim So-yeon, Park Si-hoo, Han Jung-soo and Choi Song-hyun. It aired on SBS from March 31 to May 20, 2010 on Wednesdays and Thursdays at 21:55 for 16 episodes.\n\nAfter Ma Hye Ri passes the bar exam, she discovers that her love of fashion and dislike of overtime interferes with her ability to carry out her duties as a public prosecutor. She faces opposition from contemptuous colleagues and exasperated superiors. With her career on a downward spiral, she enlists the help of mysterious attorney Seo In-woo.\n\n\nIt aired in Japan on cable channel KNTV beginning October 18, 2010, then on terrestrial network Fuji TV in 2011.\n\n\"Fly High\" was the first digital single and soundtrack to be released from \"Prosecutor Princess OST\", performed by South Korean R&B boy group Shinee. \"Fly High\" ranked at spot 46 and peaked at spot 38 of Gaon Chart upon release.\n\n\"Fly High\" was composed by Oh Jun-seong of Forrest Media who was the producer of the \"Prosecutor Princess OST\", and the vocals were provided by Shinee of SM Entertainment. The song was released as one of the two tracks of digital single \"Prosecutor Princess OST Part 1\" on April 2, 2010.\n\nA promotional music video of \"Fly High\" featuring scenes from the TV drama series was released in late May 2010. The song was performed by Shinee during their first Asia tour Shinee World and the live version was included in live album \"Shinee World\". The Japanese version was performed during Shinee's first Japanese arena tour Shinee World 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "57181605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57181605", "title": "Saadi v Italy", "text": "Saadi v Italy\n\nSaadi v Italy was a case of the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) decided in February 2008, in which the Court unanimously reaffirmed and extended principles established in \"Chahal v United Kingdom\" regarding the absolute nature of the principle of non-refoulement and the obligations of a state under Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR).\n\nIn particular the Court addressed the role of an exchange of notes between Italy (the state which sought to deport Saadi) and Tunisia (the receiving state, to which he would be deported) and ruled that it was inadequate to protect against the risk that Saadi would be ill-treated, as Tunisia had only restated Tunisian law and had not made the diplomatic assurances against ill-treatment requested by Italy. The ruling did not directly address in its \"ratio\" whether diplomatic assurances could constitute adequate protection in general when such assurances were provided by states known to practice torture, but reiterated in \"dicta\" that even if Italy had received such assurances, the Court would still have examined them for reliability.\n\nNassim Saadi, a Tunisian citizen, had resided in Italy since the late 1990s and held a residence permit from the Bologna police. Saadi was arrested in Italy on charges of conspiracy to commit acts of violence with the aim of spreading terror, falsification of documents, receiving stolen goods, and aiding and abetting illegal entry. At trial before Milan Corte d'Assise, he was found guilty of a downgraded charge of criminal conspiracy on 9 May 2005 and sentenced to four-and-a-half years imprisonment followed by deportation to Tunisia. Two days later, Saadi's trial in absentia before a military tribunal in Tunis concluded and resulted in a conviction for incitement to terrorism and membership in a terrorist organisation, with a sentence of twenty years' imprisonment.\n\nSaadi was released on 9 August 2006, but the Italian Minister of the Interior made a deportation order against him the following day. In municipal law, appeal from the deportation order laid to the and to the Council of State, but execution of the deportation order would not be stayed whilst the appeal was pending. Saadi's request for political asylum was also denied on the national security grounds. As such, Saadi lodged his appeal to the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) on 14 September 2006.\n\nSaadi argued that his deportation to Tunisia created a \"real risk\" that he would be subject to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment and that the deportation would thus contravene Article 3 of the Convention. He further argued that deportation would abrogate his right to a fair trial under Article 6 (due to his conviction in absentia in Tunisia), and that it would deprive his wife and son of his support and thus contravene Article 8. Italy argued that it had received diplomatic assurances from Tunisia that Saadi would not be subject to torture and that its receipt of such assurances fulfilled its Article 3 obligations.\n\nThe United Kingdom as intervenor urged the Court to modify the \"real risk\" standard established in \"Chahal v. United Kingdom\" to allow the risk of torture to be balanced against consideration of the individual's dangerousness. The United Kingdom had repeatedly criticised the \"absolute ban\" established in Chahal and was an intervenor in two other Article 3 cases simultaneously pending before the ECtHR, namely \"Ramzy v the Netherlands\" and \"A v the Netherlands\".\n\nIn the unanimous decision, the Grand Chamber accepted Saadi's argument that Italy was in violation of Article 3. Addressing the United Kingdom's arguments submitted as intervenor, the Court ruled that the threat that Saadi posed to Italy did not reduce the risk of ill-treatment in Tunisia.\n\nThe Court was faced with the question of assessing whether there existed a risk of Saadi facing torture or ill treatment were he to be deported to Tunisia. This was a different question than a standard of proof for an event that had already occurred, as it involved forecasting the likelihood of a future event. The Court adopted the test of \"whether substantial grounds have been shown for believing that there is a real risk of treatment incompatible with Article 3\", which English courts have subsequently referred to as the \"\"Saadi\" test\". The Court did not reach Saadi's Article 6 (right to a fair trial) and Article 8 (right to family life) arguments, ruling that since \"there was no reason to doubt\" that Italy would comply with the Court's order in relation to Article 3, there was no need to address the more complicated issue of whether an expulsion or potential expulsion could constitute a violation of the right to a fair trial. In its jurisprudence up to 2008 the Court had never addressed that issue.\n\nThe ECtHR addressed the persuasiveness of diplomatic assurances again in \"Beh Khemais v Italy\" shortly after. \"Saadi\" was soon after applied in the English courts in to bar the deportation to Libya of the two applicants.\n\n\"Saadi\" was hailed as a \"landmark\" case by human rights organisations including Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and the International Commission of Jurists despite that the ruling seemed a foregone result given earlier case law. The case's significance lay in that it rejected repeated calls for a \"balancing test\" to be introduced in response to the new \"international climate\" of terrorism. Some commentators compared and contrasted the case with the earlier \"Suresh v Canada (Minister of Citizenship and Immigration)\", in which the Supreme Court of Canada did not categorically reject deporting an individual to a state where he or she could face the risk of torture, but instead applied such a balancing test.\nIn light of the bar against deportation which \"Saadi\" reiterated, parties to the ECHR were left to look into other methods of protecting the public from dangerous individuals who could not be returned to their countries of origin. One scholar subsequently argued that civil detention following completion of criminal sentence could be justified under Article 15 of the ECHR.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "221857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221857", "title": "Sino-British Joint Declaration", "text": "Sino-British Joint Declaration\n\nThe Sino–British Joint Declaration is an international bilateral treaty signed between the People's Republic of China and the United Kingdom on 19 December 1984 in Beijing. The Declaration stipulates the sovereign and administrative arrangement over Hong Kong after 1 July 1997, when the lease of the New Territories was set to expire according to the Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory.\n\nThe Declaration was signed by Premier Zhao Ziyang of the People's Republic of China (PRC) and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of the United Kingdom (UK) on behalf of their respective governments. It entered into force with the exchange of instruments of ratification on 27 May 1985, and was registered by the PRC and UK governments at the United Nations on 12 June 1985. In the Joint Declaration, the PRC Government stated that it had decided to resume the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong (including Hong Kong Island, Kowloon, and the New Territories) with effect from 1 July 1997, and the UK Government declared that it would hand over Hong Kong to the PRC with effect from 1 July 1997. The PRC Government also declared its basic policies regarding Hong Kong in the document.\n\nIn accordance with the \"one country, two systems\" principle agreed between the UK and the PRC, the socialist system of PRC would not be practised in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), and Hong Kong's previous capitalist system and its way of life would remain unchanged for a period of 50 years until 2047. The Joint Declaration provides that these basic policies should be stipulated in the Hong Kong Basic Law and that the socialist system and socialist policies shall not be practised in HKSAR. However, with the start of the Umbrella Revolution in 2014, a campaign against the perceived infringements in the HKSAR by mainland China, the British Foreign Office announced that Chinese officials now treat the Joint Declaration as \"void\".\n\nThe background of the Sino–British Joint Declaration was the pending expiration of the lease of the New Territories on 1 July 1997. The lease was negotiated between the UK and the Guangxu Emperor of China, and was for a period of 99 years starting from 1 July 1898 under the Second Convention of Peking. At the time of the lease signing, Hong Kong Island had already been ceded to the UK in perpetuity under the Treaty of Nanjing in 1842 after the First Opium War, and the southern part of the Kowloon Peninsula as well as the Stonecutters Island had also been ceded to the UK in perpetuity under the Convention of Beijing in 1860 after the Second Opium War.\n\nIn the early 1980s the territory and its business community grew concerned about the future of Hong Kong. These concerns, regarding the status of property rights and contracts, were spurred by political uncertainty surrounding the scheduled reversion of the New Territories to the PRC. In March 1979, the Governor of Hong Kong, Murray MacLehose, visited Beijing. During this visit, informal talks about the future of Hong Kong began. Upon his return, MacLehose attempted to allay investors' worries about the scheduled reversion, but reiterated that the PRC asserted its intention to regain sovereignty over Hong Kong. The first formal negotiations began with chairman Deng Xiaoping of the Central Military Commission during the visit of the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Margaret Thatcher, to China in September 1982.\n\nDuring the following discussions, where the Governor of Hong Kong took part in every round of formal talks as a member of the British delegation, it became clear that the continuation of British administration after 1997 would not be acceptable to China in any form. The Chinese Government has consistently taken the view that the whole of Hong Kong should be Chinese territory, due to them being acquired through the inequality of historical treaties. As a result, the two sides discussed possible measures besides continued British administration, and came up with the concept of Hong Kong as a Special Administration Region of the PRC. In April 1984, the two sides concluded the initial discussion of these matters, and arranged that Hong Kong would retain a high degree of autonomy under Chinese sovereignty with the preservation of the maintained lifestyle in Hong Kong. By 18 September 1984, both sides had approved the English and Chinese texts of the documents and the associated Exchange of Memoranda.\n\nThe signing of the Joint Declaration caused some controversy in Britain because UK's Conservative Party Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher was agreeing with the China's Communist government represented by Deng Xiaoping. However, political analysts believe she had no choice to agree because \"the alternative to acceptance of the present agreement [was] to have no agreement\", an unacceptable situation considering Britain's weak negotiating position. As Hong Kong was not militarily defensible and relied on Guangdong province in mainland China to supply most of its food and water, the economic feasibility of dividing Hong Kong (with Britain retaining control of Hong Kong Island and Kowloon while the New Territories returning to the PRC) was impracticable. Furthermore, there was an urgency to make an agreement because there were fears that without a treaty the economy in Hong Kong would collapse in the 1980s. Concerns about land ownership in the leased New Territories also added to the problem. Although discussions on the future of Hong Kong had started in the late 1970s, the final timing of the Joint Declaration was more affected by property and economic factors rather than geopolitical necessities.\n\nThe Sino–British Joint Declaration consists of eight paragraphs, three Annexes about the Basic Policies regarding Hong Kong, the Sino–British Joint Liaison Group and the Land Leases as well as the two Memoranda of the two sides. Each part has the same status, and \"The whole makes up a formal international agreement, legally binding in all its parts. An international agreement of this kind is the highest form of commitment between two sovereign states.\" Within these declarations the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region shall be directly under the authority of the Central People's Government of the PRC and shall enjoy a high degree of autonomy except for foreign and defence affairs. It shall be allowed to have executive, legislative and independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication. The Basic Law explains that in addition to Chinese, English may also be used in organs of government and that apart from the national flag and national emblem of the PRC the HKSAR may use a regional flag and emblem of its own. It shall maintain the capitalist economic and trade systems previously practised in Hong Kong. \nThe third paragraph lists the PRC's basic policies regarding Hong Kong:\n\nThe Government of the United Kingdom will be responsible for the administration of Hong Kong with the object of maintaining and preserving its economic prosperity and social stability until 30 June 1997 and the Government of the PRC will give its co-operation in this connection.\n\nFurthermore, this declaration regulates the right of abode, those of passports and immigration. All Chinese nationals who were born or who have ordinarily resided in Hong Kong for a continuous period of seven years or more are qualified to obtain permanent identity cards. Those cardholders can also get a passport of the HKSAR, which is valid for all states and regions. But the entry into the HKSAR of persons from other parts of China shall continue to be regulated in accordance with the present practice.\n\nThis Annex is called the \"Elaboration by the government of the People's Republic of China of its basic policies regarding Hong Kong\". It is partly mentioned in the summary above and deals in detail with the way Hong Kong will work after 1 July 1997. The annexe consist of following sections:\n(1) Constitutional arrangements and government structure; (II) the laws; (III) the judicial system; (IV) the public service; (V) the financial system; (VI) the economic system and external economic relations; (VII) the monetary system, (VIII) shipping, (IX) civil aviation; (X) education; (XI) foreign affairs; (XII) defence, security and public order; (XIII) basic rights and freedoms; (XIV) right of abode, travel and immigration.\n\nAnnex II set up the Sino–British Joint Liaison Group. That Group came into force at 1 July 1988 and continued its work until 1 January 2000. Its functions were\n\nThis Group was an organ for liaison and not of power, where each side could send up to 20 supporting staff members. It should meet at least once in each of the three locations (Beijing, London and Hong Kong) in each year. From 1 July 1988 onwards it was based in Hong Kong. It should also assist the HKSAR to maintain and develop economic and cultural relations and conclude agreements on these matters with states, regions and relevant international organisations and could therefore set up specialist sub-groups. Between 1985 and 2000 the Joint Liaison Group held 47 plenary meetings whereof 18 were held in Hong Kong, 15 in London and 14 in Beijing.\n\nOne of the main achievements had been to ensure the continuity of the independent judiciary in Hong Kong, including agreements in the areas of law of Merchant Shipping, Civil Aviation, Nuclear Material, Whale Fisheries, Submarine Telegraph, Outer Space and many others. Furthermore, it agreed to a network of bilateral agreements between Hong Kong and other countries. Within those agreements were reached on the continued application of about 200 international conventions to the HKSAR after 30 June 1997. Hong Kong should also continue to participate in various international organisations after the handover.\n\nAccording to the Land Leases all leased lands, granted by the British Hong Kong Government, which extend beyond 30 June 1997 and all rights in relation to such leases shall continue to be recognised and protected under the law of the HKSAR for a period expiring not longer than 30 June 2047. Furthermore, a Land Commission shall be established with equal number of officials from the Government of the United Kingdom and the Government of the PRC which was dissolved on 30 June 1997. This commission was established in 1985 and met in Hong Kong for 35 formal meetings and agreed on 26 legal documents, within the granting of the land required for the new airport at Chek Lap Kok in 1994.\n\nIn this memorandum the Government of the United Kingdom declared that all persons who hold British Dependent Territories citizenship (BDTCs) through an affiliation with Hong Kong would cease to be BDTCs on 1 July 1997. After the declaration, the Hong Kong Act, 1985 and the Hong Kong (British Nationality) Order, 1986 created the category British National (Overseas). BDTCs were allowed to apply for British National (Overseas) status until July 1997, but this status does not in of itself grant the right of abode anywhere, including the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. After the handover, most former BDTCs became citizens of the People's Republic of China. Any who were ineligible for PRC citizenship and who had not applied for BN(O) status automatically became British Overseas citizens.\n\n\"Under the National Law of the PRC, all Hong Kong Chinese compatriots, whether they are holders of the 'British Dependent Territories Citizens' Passport' or not, are Chinese nationals.\" Those people who use travel documents issued by the Government of the United Kingdom are permitted to use them for the purpose of travelling to other states and regions, but they will not be entitled to British consular protection in the HKSAR and other parts of the PRC.\n\nAfter signing of the declaration, the Sino–British Joint Liaison Group was set up according to the Annex II of the declaration.\n\nThe transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong (referred to as the \"return\" or \"handover\" by the Chinese and British press respectively) occurred as scheduled on 1 July 1997. Since the return just a few things changed, such as the flag of Hong Kong and the Prince of Wales Building being renamed into the People's Liberation Army Building. Post boxes were repainted green, as per the practice in China. Street names have remained unchanged and the Royal Hong Kong Yacht Club has kept its \"Royal\" prefix, although the Hong Kong Jockey Club and other institutions have given up this title.\n\nAfter the Asian financial crisis in 1997 the Hong Kong measures were taken with the full co-operation of the Chinese government. This did not mean that the Chinese government dictated what to do and therefore still follows the points of the declaration. \nDespite the autonomy, the government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region sometimes sought the suggestions from the Chinese government. In 1999 the government of the HKSAR asked China's State Council to seek an interpretation of a provision in the Basic Law by the National People's Congress Standing Committee. The Chinese government said that a decision by the Hong Kong Court of Final Appeal would allow 1.6 million mainland immigrants to enter Hong Kong. As a result, the Chinese authorities obliged and the Hong Kong judgment was overturned.\n\nPressures from the mainland government were also apparent, for example in 2000, after the election of pro-independence candidate Chen Shui-bian as Taiwan's president, a senior mainland official in Hong Kong warned journalists not to report the news. Another senior official advised businessmen not to do business with pro-independence Taiwanese.\n\nWith this and other changes, ten years after the return, in 2007, \"The Guardian\" wrote that on the one hand, \"nothing has changed since the handover to China 10 years ago\", but this was in comparison to the situation before the last governor Chris Patten had introduced democratic reforms three years before the handover. A chance for democracy had been lost as Hong Kong had just begun to develop three vital elements for a western-style democracy (the rule of law, official accountability and a political class outside the one-party system) but the Sino–British deal had prevented any of these changes to continue.\n\nWu Bangguo, the chairman of the National People's Congress Standing Committee stated in a conference in Beijing 2007, that \"Hong Kong had considerable autonomy only because the central government had chosen to authorize that autonomy\".\n\nIn 2014, against the backdrop of Umbrella Revolution, the British Foreign Affairs Select Committee was banned by China from entering Hong Kong on their planned visit in December as part of their inquiry into progress of the implementation of the Sino–British Joint Declaration. In an emergency parliamentary debate about the unprecedented ban, the chairman on the committee Richard Ottaway revealed that Chinese officials consider the Joint Declaration \"now void and only covered the period from the signing in 1984 until the handover in 1997.\"\n\nIn 2016 Caroline Wilson, who was the British Consul-General to Hong Kong and Macao, said the Causeway Bay Books disappearances was a violation of the Joint declaration.\n\nIn July 2017, when British Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson urged democratic progress in Hong Kong, China's foreign ministry spokesman Lu Kang said the legally binding Hong Kong handover treaty with Britain 'as a historical document, no longer has any practical significance,' and that 'It is not at all binding for the central government's management over Hong Kong. The UK has no sovereignty, no power to rule and no power to supervise Hong Kong after the handover.' In response the British Foreign office said: \"It is a legally binding treaty, registered with the UN and continues to be in force. As a co-signatory, the UK government is committed to monitoring its implementation closely.\" Johnson restated Britain's commitment to Hong Kong is enshrined in the \"treaty\" that was \"just as strong today\" as it was 20 years ago.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1969353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1969353", "title": "Southern Television broadcast interruption", "text": "Southern Television broadcast interruption\n\nThe Southern Television broadcast interruption was a broadcast interruption through the Hannington transmitter of the Independent Broadcasting Authority in the United Kingdom at 5:10 p.m. on 26 November 1977. The broadcast message is generally considered to be a hoax, but the identity of the hijacker is unknown.\n\nA speaker interrupted transmissions for six minutes and claimed to be a representative of an \"Intergalactic Association\". Reports of the incident vary, some calling the speaker \"Vrillon\" or \"Gillon\", others \"Asteron\".\n\nThe voice, which was disguised and accompanied by a deep buzzing, broke into the broadcast of the local ITV station Southern Television, overriding the UHF audio signal of the early-evening news being read by Andrew Gardner from ITN to warn viewers that \"All your weapons of evil must be removed\" and \"You have but a short time to learn to live together in peace.\"\n\nThe interruption ceased shortly after the statement had been delivered, transmissions returning to normal shortly before the end of a \"Looney Tunes\" cartoon. Later in the evening, Southern Television apologised for what it described as \"a breakthrough in sound\" for some viewers. ITN also reported on the incident in its own late-evening Saturday bulletin.\n\nThe broadcast took over the sound only, leaving the video signal unaltered, aside from some picture distortion.\n\nAt that time, the Hannington UHF television transmitter was unusual in being one of the few transmitters which rebroadcast an off-air signal received from another transmitter (Southern Television's Rowridge transmitter on the Isle of Wight), rather than being fed directly by a landline. As a consequence it was open to this kind of signal intrusion, as even a relatively low-powered transmission very close to the receiver could overwhelm its reception of the intended signal, resulting in the unauthorised transmission being amplified and rebroadcast across a far wider area. The IBA stated to carry out a hoax would take \"a considerable amount of technical know-how\" and a spokesman for Southern Television confirmed \"A hoaxer jammed our transmitter in the wilds of North Hampshire by taking another transmitter very close to it.\" They never discovered the identity of the intruder.\n\nThe incident caused some local alarm and attracted publicity in the next day's Sunday newspapers, with the IBA announcing the broadcast was a hoax. The IBA confirmed it was the first time such a hoax transmission had been made.\n\nReports of the event carried worldwide with numerous American newspapers picking up the story from the UPI press agency.\n\nThe broadcast became a footnote in ufology as some chose to accept the supposed \"alien\" broadcast at face value, questioning the explanation of a transmitter hijack. Within two days of the incident's report in \"The Times\", a letter to the editor published on 30 November 1977 asked, \"[How] can the IBA – or anyone else – be sure that the broadcast was a hoax?\" The editorial board of one American local newspaper—the \"Eugene Register-Guard\"—commented, \"Nobody seemed to consider that 'Asteron' may have been for real.\" By as late as 1985, the story had entered urban folklore, with suggestions there had never been any explanation of the broadcast.\n\nA 1999 episode of children's television series \"It's a Mystery\" featured the event, produced by one of Southern's successors, Meridian Television. The feature reenacted the incident with faux news reports and viewers watching the incident play out at home.\n\nThe Winter 1977 issue of \"Fortean Times\" (issue #24) magazine featured a transcript of what they described as the 'short message' that was broadcast:\n\nThis is the voice of Asteron. I am an authorised representative of the Intergalactic Mission, and I have a message for the planet Earth. We are beginning to enter the period of Aquarius and there are many corrections which have to be made by Earth people. All your weapons of evil must be destroyed. You have only a short time to learn to live together in peace. You must live in peace... or leave the galaxy.\n\nThe \"Fortean Times\" article went on to criticise reports of the incident appearing in newspapers:\n\nInexplicably the News Of The World and D. Mail call the owner of the voice \"Gillon, of the Ashdown Galactic Command\" and that he said: \"Unless the weapons of Earth are laid down, destruction from outer space invasion will quickly follow.\" I hope their regular news reportage is more accurate than that, for the indication is that they've simply invented a more shocking message.\nSpeaking on British commercial radio on 6 December 1977, Sir John Whitmore also questioned newspaper reporting of the incident, referring to a recording of the complete broadcast which appeared to exist at the time.\n\nA complete transcript of the message reads:\n\nThis is the voice of Vrillon, a representative of the Ashtar Galactic Command, speaking to you. For many years you have seen us as lights in the skies. We speak to you now in peace and wisdom as we have done to your brothers and sisters all over this, your planet Earth. We come to warn you of the destiny of your race and your world so that you may communicate to your fellow beings the course you must take to avoid the disaster which threatens your world, and the beings on our worlds around you. This is in order that you may share in the great awakening, as the planet passes into the New Age of Aquarius. The New Age can be a time of great peace and evolution for your race, but only if your rulers are made aware of the evil forces that can overshadow their judgments. Be still now and listen, for your chance may not come again. All your weapons of evil must be removed. The time for conflict is now past and the race of which you are a part may proceed to the higher stages of its evolution if you show yourselves worthy to do this. You have but a short time to learn to live together in peace and goodwill. Small groups all over the planet are learning this, and exist to pass on the light of the dawning New Age to you all. You are free to accept or reject their teachings, but only those who learn to live in peace will pass to the higher realms of spiritual evolution. Hear now the voice of Vrillon, a representative of the Ashtar Galactic Command, speaking to you. Be aware also that there are many false prophets and guides at present operating on your world. They will suck your energy from you – the energy you call money and will put it to evil ends and give you worthless dross in return. Your inner divine self will protect you from this. You must learn to be sensitive to the voice within that can tell you what is truth, and what is confusion, chaos and untruth. Learn to listen to the voice of truth which is within you and you will lead yourselves onto the path of evolution. This is our message to our dear friends. We have watched you growing for many years as you too have watched our lights in your skies. You know now that we are here, and that there are more beings on and around your Earth than your scientists admit. We are deeply concerned about you and your path towards the light and will do all we can to help you. Have no fear, seek only to know yourselves, and live in harmony with the ways of your planet Earth. We of the Ashtar Galactic Command thank you for your attention. We are now leaving the planes of your existence. May you be blessed by the supreme love and truth of the cosmos.\n\nAuthor Nelson Algren included a variation of the message in his 1983 book \"The Devil's Stocking\", a fictionalised account of the trial of Rubin Carter, a real-life prize-fighter who had been found guilty of double murder. In the book, as a period of unrest within the prison begins, the character 'Kenyatta' gives a speech closely mirroring the \"Fortean Times\" transcript of the Southern Television interruption:\n\n\"I am an authorized representative of the Intergalactic Mission,\" Kenyatta finally disclosed his credentials. \"I have a message for the Planet Earth. We are beginning to enter the period of Aquarius. Many corrections have to be made by Earth people. All your weapons of evil must be destroyed. You have only a short time to learn to live together in peace. You must live in peace\" – here he paused to gain everybody's attention – \"you must live in peace or leave the galaxy!\"\n"}
{"id": "15262886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15262886", "title": "Sustainable design standards", "text": "Sustainable design standards\n\nDesign standards, reference standards and performance standards are familiar throughout business and industry, virtually for anything that is definable. Sustainable design, taken as reducing our impact on the earth and making things better at the same time, is in the process of becoming defined. There are also lots of well organized specific methodologies that are used by different communities of people for different purposes.\n\nOne of the better known is the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) green building rating system, which uses a diverse group of hard measures of environmental quality and impacts to define a holistic approach to sustainable building and assign ratings to individual projects.\n\nSustainable design is really just a more determined effort to consider the whole range of impacts on our environment in making any decision. A more complete design guide, guided more by whole project impact measures, is the model offered by the U.S. cooperating agencies in the \"Whole Building Design Guide\".\n\nGreen construction codes and standards are beginning to emerge on the national code stage. The standards go beyond energy standards such as ASHRAE 90.1 and the International Energy Conservation Code (IECC) to cover additional areas such as site sustainability, water efficiency, indoor environmental quality and materials and resources. The first is ASHRAE 189.1, Standard for the Design of High-Performance, Green Buildings Except Low-Rise Residential Buildings, published by ASHRAE in January 2010 in conjunction with the U.S. Green Building Council and the Illuminating Engineering Society. Standard 189.1 provides criteria by which a building can be judged as “green,” written in model code language that jurisdictions can use to develop a green building construction code.\n\nSeveral organizations have developed their own ways of setting goals for energy reductions, such as Architecture 2030 and for qualifying performance toward them such as Cradle to Cradle.\n\nDeveloping real methods for how to discover the design opportunities that would allow you to meet or exceed the standards was one of the objectives of the environmental design movement in architectural schools in the 1960s and '70s, but though some of the issues introduced then are still an important part of the process, not much actually changed about the methods of design. Now with the combination of many more interactive tools and much higher stakes in the outcome, and long gestating rethinking about natural systems in general, a dramatic new revolution in methodology seems inevitable.\n\nBIM (building information modeling) allows designers to work with many remote consultants on the same data file that represents all the decisions being made by the team. That same file is available to the climate and energy and environmental impact analysis and cost analysis tools and consultants, ... and of course to the prospective contractors and the regulators. Along with this new integrated access to the model there in needed a new way to integrate the conversation of so many people, each with some interest in reviewing each other's comments on the progress with the central design model. That is likely to involve development of wiki tools for the process. One such very early impliementation of a Wiki SD tool called \"4Dsustainability\" organizes the project design evolution around the general learning process of how you define the problem by exploring its environment, and following that through the project.\n\nThe main difference between sustainable design methods and conventional design is incorporating the entire environment of the project's stakeholders on the design team, essentially, and that calls for new ways to explore connections and for more people and perspectives to be taken into account. Other methods that recognize this requirement are the \"AIA SDAT\" (sustainable design assessment team) program and the \"Scenarios for sustainability\" process design tools.\n"}
{"id": "53497684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53497684", "title": "Tennessee Law Review", "text": "Tennessee Law Review\n\nTennessee Law Review began in 1922 and is published by the Tennessee Law Review Association which is based within the University of Tennessee College of Law, Knoxville. The journal is published quarterly and edited is by University of Tennessee Law students. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1225219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1225219", "title": "The Humble Guys", "text": "The Humble Guys\n\nThe Humble Guys (THG) were a cracking group for the IBM PC during the late 1980s founded by two friends known by the pseudonyms Candyman and Fabulous Furlough. The group was also noticed in the demoscene for some of their cracktros.\n\nTHG was the first group to make use of the NFO file as a means for documenting their releases before packaging and distribution. The first release to contain an .NFO file was Nova Logic's remake of the arcade classic Bubble Bobble in 1989. This has since spawned an entire generation of ASCII artists devoted solely to creating artwork for the purpose of decorating NFO files for warez groups. To put things into perspective, there are now entire websites explicitly devoted to the collection and archival of NFO files, such as The iSONEWS.\n\nTHG also was one of the first groups to release an \"intro tool\" for the IBM PC demoscene, released by their coding subsidiary, \"THG F/X\", called the THG IntroMaker. The THG IntroMaker would allow one to create a self-contained executable program which played music and displayed graphics on screen without the need for any knowledge of computer programming. A much more advanced and highly sophisticated extension of this today would be Farbrausch's \".werkkzeug\".\n\nPrior to THG's arrival on the warez scene the IBM world did not have anything other than text based intros usually quoting song lyrics. THG members brought the experience from the C64 and AMIGA warez scene bringing the first animated and graphical intros to the IBM scene.\n\nIn December 1991 , the \"F/X division\" of The Humble Guys released a first and only copy of an electronic magazine called \"The Humble Review\" featuring game reviews and articles. Writer and weblogger Justin Hall would have his first article published in the Humble Review; a film review of Akira by \"Fusty\".\n\nMembers of THG also had their own custom BBS software, originally a \"forum hack\", called L.S.D. BBS (Lush Software Designs) which was first introduced on June 1, 1990, written by The Slavelord and others. The original source code for this was Emulex/2, which was acquired by a THG member who's alias was Tripin Face. The source code was referred to as 'Jani' in some communities at the time. \n\nOn the evening of October 27, 1992, NBC television aired an episode about computer hackers on Dateline titled \"Are Your Secrets Safe?\". This show prominently displayed ads for several warez BBSes, including one for The Slave Den BBS which was operated by a senior member and spokesperson of THG. As a result of this undesired exposure, The Slavelord voluntarily retired from his activities within the group.\n\nOn September 5, 2006, David J. Francis, known by his username \"Candyman\" died in his hometown of St. Louis Missouri, of heart failure.\n\nOn October 4th, 2015, Pierre Barkett, known by his username \"The PieMaN\" died in Florida of heart failure.\n\nTHG redefined the manner in which the PC Warez Scene worked when they entered the scene in 1989. Prior to THG, warez releases were haphazard, with multiple groups releasing the same title, usually after the title had been available in retail stores for weeks. Often games were released to BBSes without being cracked. THG changed this by releasing titles days before the software made it to retail chains such as Babbage's. They did this by establishing relationships with the major wholesale software distributors, and ordering games with overnight shipping. For those cases where overnight shipping wasn't enough, THG found people who lived near the software companies, who could go to the company, and buy the game the day it was released. This beat the overnight shipping method by 2 days in most cases. Also, an advantage that they possessed was that most other warez groups were run by teens, who attended school during the day. THG was run by professional men, who were available each day \"by 10:30\" when FedEx, or UPS delivered. The other groups had to \"wait until they got home\" in the afternoons. A decided advantage considering most \"cracks\" were done in less than an hour, and releases complete shortly thereafter.\n\nTHG had members who worked for morning TV shows. Software companies, ever eager for free advertising, would send a box of new, or in some cases \"about to be released\" software to a TV show, for just a simple phone call. They also understood the \"progression\" of software. Once a title was completed, the box, manual, and final version of the game, were shipped to a \"duplication house\" to copy the software for sale in stores. THG had contacts in these duplication houses, where they could get the games weeks before they would show up at the store. Activision's F-14 Tomcat was one such title, along with all titles from Microprose.\n\nAt the height of their power, THG had game suppliers in the US, UK, France, Germany, and many parts of Asia.\n\nTHG introduced the concept of couriers in an effort to plaster their releases on their competitors' BBSes. The THG couriers were often told to make sure that the various groups received the latest crack on their HQ's BBS before other THG BBSes. The combination of using software wholesalers and couriers turned the PC Warez Scene upside down in 1990, but these are considered normal practice now. The fierce competition within the current warez and video scenes are directly descended from THG.\n\nAs a result of the fierce competition from THG, the majority of older, well established, warez groups disappeared from the scene. Of the four or five groups that were around prior to THG's arrival in December, 1989, the only group that survived the onslaught from THG was the International Network of Crackers (INC).\n\nOne of THG's greatest competitors in the IBM PC cracking scene was the International Network of Crackers (INC). The file header of the executable THG cracktro, READTHG.EXE (displayed above), contains text which reads: \"Cool Hand but fucks his dog and Phantom from INC\" (sic), an insulting reference towards the vice-president and courier coordinator of their rival organization, INC.\n\nAfter Candyman shut down his BBS (Candyland - originally run on CNET BBS and \"first setup and up by The Bandit (this is untrue)\", setup, development and maintenance was continued by The Maker including unique customization, who was on hand from day one, for Candyman.) After Candyman left the United States, Fabulous Furlough took over the reins of the group. After political infighting among the remaining members of the group led to problems within the organization, several of the newer members of THG splintered off and formed a new group called USA (United Software Association) which included several noteworthy members such as Genesis and The Humble Babe (who changed her name to The NotSoHumble Babe upon her departure from THG). USA released a few games, most of them coming from one of THG's suppliers in Illinois, whom USA had managed to \"turn\". After the bust of The Not So Humble Babe on credit card fraud charges in Michigan, USA teamed up the European PC warez division of Fairlight and were cooperatively known as \"USA/FLT\". This inevitably lead to the two groups USA and THG warring with each other.\n\nA year after the USA/FLT fiasco, several of the original members of The Humble Guys left the group in an effort to once again capture lightning in a bottle. However, by the fall of 1992 several other groups, such as Razor 1911 had joined the scene and this new group, while having some brief success, was never as successful as THG. The new group fell apart shortly after The Slavelord shut down his BBS after the Dateline story.\n\nDuring 1992 though early 1994, many THG releases were supplied by the UK branch which compromised mostly of Hi.T.Moonweed, Bryn Rogers and Hydro who struggled to keep the group together due to US burnout. The UK BBS's, The Flying Teapot and The Demons Forge (ran by Hi.T and Bryn respectively) became the UK's major landmarks.\n\nBy 1994, most of the founding members of The Humble Guys were no longer involved with the warez scene, and the group was just a shadow of its former self. After the Pits BBS in New York was shut down by Novell in 1995, the group moved to IRC (Internet Relay Chat) and had a presence on many different servers with the name #THG. They focused on distribution rather than cracking. The Humble Guys disbanded in the early 2000s when the last founding member left.\n"}
{"id": "9659285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9659285", "title": "The Medieval Underworld", "text": "The Medieval Underworld\n\nThe Medieval Underworld is a 1972 illustrated book authored by Andrew McCall, published by Barnes & Noble Books in New York. It details the basis for criminal and ecclesiastical justice from the fall of Rome to about 1500.\n\nThe book has been distinguished in Mark Galeotti's \"Paths of Wickedness and Crimes\" for its discussion of organized crime in medieval Europe, and it forms part of the basis of the IEA's overview course on Crime and Society.\n\nIn popular culture, \"The Medieval Underworld\" has been suggested as a source of primary material for role-playing game developers.\n\n"}
{"id": "9368789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9368789", "title": "Title 30 of the United States Code", "text": "Title 30 of the United States Code\n\nTitle 30 of the United States Code outlines the role of mineral lands and mining in the United States Code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40755073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40755073", "title": "Town of Greece v. Galloway", "text": "Town of Greece v. Galloway\n\nTown of Greece v. Galloway, 572 U.S. ___ (2014), is a United States Supreme Court case in which the court decided that the Town of Greece, New York may permit volunteer chaplains to open each legislative session with a prayer. The plaintiffs were Susan Galloway and Linda Stephens, represented by Americans United for Separation of Church and State. They argue that the prayers violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled against the town, and on May 20, 2013 the Supreme Court agreed to rule on the issue. On May 5, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 5-4 in favor of the Town of Greece, and that the town's practice of beginning legislative sessions with prayers does not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nDoes the town of Greece, New York, impose an impermissible establishment of religion by opening its monthly board meetings with a prayer?\n\nBy a 5-4 vote, the Court ruled that the town's practice did not violate the Establishment Clause. The majority opinion authored by Justice Kennedy stated: \"The town of Greece does not violate the First Amendment by opening its meetings with prayer that comports with our tradition and does not coerce participation by nonadherents.\" The court concluded that the town's practice of opening its town board meetings with a prayer offered by members of the clergy does not violate the Establishment Clause when the practice is consistent with the tradition long followed by Congress and state legislatures, the town does not discriminate against minority faiths in determining who may offer a prayer, and the prayer does not coerce participation with non-adherents.\n\nThe majority held that sectarian prayers at government meetings are permissible under the Constitution. “To hold that invocations must be non-sectarian would force the legislatures sponsoring prayers and the courts deciding these cases to act as supervisors and censors of religious speech,” Kennedy wrote for himself and the conservative members on the court. Lawmakers and judges would otherwise have to police prayer, he wrote, involving “government in religious matters to a far greater degree than is the case under the town’s current practice of neither editing nor approving prayers in advance nor criticizing their content after the fact.” This means that prayers are allowed to invoke particular religious affiliations without running afoul of the First Amendment prohibition against endorsement of religion at federal, state or local level.\n\nKennedy stated that U.S. Constitution doesn't require the town of Greece to search outside the town for chaplains from other faiths as long as the town maintains a policy of nondiscrimination. He however included a restraint on legislature prayers by stating that \"[t]he purpose of legislative prayer is to lend gravity” to sessions where “the divisive business of governing” will take place. Noting that legislature prayer (in this context) should be “solemn and respectful in tone”, Kennedy went on to state that when legislative prayers are used as an opportunity to condemn or try to convert people who are not members of a particular religion, then these prayers would not conform with the Constitution. He added in general: \"Absent a pattern of prayers that over time denigrate, proselytize, or betray an impermissible government purpose, a challenge based solely on the content of a particular prayer will not likely establish a constitutional violation.\"\n\nJustice Kennedy wrote: “Legislative bodies do not engage in impermissible coercion merely by exposing constituents to prayer they would rather not hear and in which they need not participate.” According to the majority legislative prayers might be impermissible if they “denigrate nonbelievers or religious minorities, threaten damnation, or preach conversion,” or if the prayer giver is chosen in a religiously discriminatory way.\n\nJustice Thomas wrote in his separate opinion (which was joined in part by Justice Scalia) that the case should be dismissed because the Establishment Clause doesn't apply to the states and its subdivisions, but only to Congress. He also stated that the Constitution would have only been violated if “actual legal coercion” like imposing taxes to pay for the church is used. Justice Alito wrote a separate concurring opinion (which was joined in part by Justice Scalia) in which he dealt with points raised by Justice Kagan in her dissent. In Alito's view “the logical thrust of many of [Justice Kagan's] arguments is that prayer is never permissible prior to meetings of local government legislative bodies.”\n\nJustice Breyer filed a dissent that focused on the case facts and argued that the town must do more to make its legislative prayer inclusive of other faiths.\n\nThe main dissent was authored by Justice Kagan and it was joined by Justices Ginsburg, Breyer and Sotomayor. Kagan noted three key differences between the case before the court and \"Marsh\" (1983): \nNoting these differences, Kagan wrote: \"So month in and month out for over a decade, prayers steeped in only one faith, addressed toward members of the public, commenced meetings to discuss local affairs and distribute government benefits. In my view, that practice does not square with the First Amendment’s promise that every citizen, irrespective of her religion, owns an equal share in her government.\" According to Kagan the providing equal treatment would have been easy: town council members could tell the chaplains that the prayers should be non-denominational, or they could have invited clergy from all different faiths to give the prayers, rather than focusing almost exclusively on Christian ministers. However, the town didn’t employ either of those measures.\n\nThe reactions to the court's ruling were diverse. Christian conservatives and others who feel that religious expression has been overly curtailed in public settings were happy with the ruling. Eric Rassbach, deputy general counsel of the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, called the court's decision \"a great victory for religious liberty.\" Along with their supporters, the Jewish and atheist women who filed suit against the town of Greece were disappointed by the court's ruling. A number of Jewish organizations, including the American Jewish Committee and the Anti-Defamation League, had filed amici curiae briefs in support of the respondents, and expressed disappointment with the majority's decision. Secular groups were also disappointed. Daniel Mach, director of the ACLU Program on Freedom of Religion and Belief, for example stated: “We are disappointed by today’s decision. Official religious favoritism should be off-limits under the Constitution. Town-sponsored sectarian prayer violates the basic rule requiring the government to stay neutral on matters of faith.” Ira Lupu, a law professor emeritus at George Washington University who specializes in the First Amendment, called the court's ruling \"a very bad decision\" because it undermined the Establishment Clause. Lupu explained that the court decision \"does not insist on any [...] reasonable effort to make prayer nonsectarian or to push for diversity. The majority faith in a particular community can dictate the prayers and minority faiths could be left out if they don’t step up and say, ‘Hey, what about us?'\"\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" pointed out that the decision divided the justices along religious lines, as well as ideological ones. All five justices in the majority were Catholics, and three out of the four dissenters were Jewish.\n\nAccording to Lyle Denniston the constitutional prescription for legislative prayers is based on eight factors. These factors are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2685825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2685825", "title": "Z-Wave", "text": "Z-Wave\n\nZ-Wave is a wireless communications protocol used primarily for home automation. It is a mesh network using low-energy radio waves to communicate from appliance to appliance, allowing for wireless control of residential appliances and other devices, such as lighting control, security systems, thermostats, windows, locks, swimming pools and garage door openers. Like other protocols and systems aimed at the home and office automation market, a Z-Wave automation system can be controlled from a wireless keyfob, a wall-mounted keypad or through smartphones, tablets or computers, with a Z-Wave gateway or central control device serving as both the hub controller and portal to the outside. It provides interoperability between home control systems of different manufacturers that are a part of its alliance. There are a growing number of interoperable Z-Wave products; over 1,700 in 2017, and over 2,400 by 2018.\n\nThe Z-Wave protocol was developed by Zensys, a Danish company based in Copenhagen, in 2001. That year, Zensys introduced a consumer light-control system, which evolved into Z-Wave as a proprietary system on a chip (SoC) home automation protocol on an unlicensed frequency band in the 900 MHz range. Its 100 series chip set was released in 2003, and its 200 series was released in May 2005, with the ZW0201 chip offering a high performance at a low cost. Its 500 series chip, also known as Z-Wave Plus, was released in March 2013, with four times the memory, improved wireless range, and improved battery life. The technology began to catch on in North America around 2005, when five companies, including Danfoss, Ingersoll-Rand and Leviton Manufacturing, adopted Z-Wave. They formed the Z-Wave Alliance, whose objective is to promote the use of Z-Wave technology, with all products by companies in the alliance interoperable. In 2005, Bessemer Venture Partners led a $16 million third seed round for Zensys. In May 2006, Intel Capital announced that it was investing in Zensys, a few days after Intel joined the Z-Wave Alliance. In 2008, Zensys received investments from Panasonic, Cisco Systems, Palamon Capital Partners and Sunstone Capital.\n\nZ-Wave was acquired by Sigma Designs in December 2008. Following the acquisition, Z-Wave's US headquarters in Fremont, California were merged with Sigma's headquarters in Milpitas, California. On January 23, 2018, Sigma announced it planned to sell its Z-Wave business to Silicon Labs for $240m, which was completed on April 18, 2018.\n\nIn 2005, six products on the market used Z-Wave technology. By 2012, as smart home technology was becoming increasingly popular, there were approximately 600 products using Z-Wave technology available in the US. By May 2017, over 1,700 products have been certified by the Z-Wave Alliance. As of April 18, 2018, there were over 2,400 interoperable Z-Wave products.\n\nZ-Wave's interoperability layer ensures that devices can share information and allows all Z-Wave hardware and software to work together. Its wireless mesh networking technology enables any node to talk to adjacent nodes directly or indirectly, controlling any additional nodes. Nodes that are within range communicate directly with one another. If they aren’t within range, they can link with another node that is within range of both to access and exchange information. In September 2016, certain parts of the Z-Wave technology were made publicly available, when Sigma Designs released a public version of Z-Wave's interoperability layer, with the software added to Z-Wave's open-source library. The open-source availability allows software developers to integrate Z-Wave into devices with fewer restrictions. Z-Wave's S2 security, Z/IP for transporting Z-Wave signals over IP networks, and Z-Ware middleware are all open source as of 2016.\n\nThe Z-Wave Alliance was established in 2005 as a consortium of companies that make connected appliances controlled through apps on smartphones, tablets or computers using Z-Wave wireless mesh networking technology. The alliance is a formal association focussed on both the expansion of Z-Wave and the continued interoperability of any device that utilises Z-Wave.\n\nIn October, 2013, Sigma Designs and the Z-Wave Alliance announced a new protocol and interoperability certification program called Z-Wave Plus, based upon new features and higher interoperability standards bundled together and required for the 500 series system on a chip (SoC), and including some features that had been available since 2012 for the 300/400 series SoCs. In February 2014, the first product was certified by Z-Wave Plus. The alliance aims to create for the smart home a secure mesh network that works across different platforms.\n\nZ-Wave is designed to achieve reliable communication and operation between devices and sensor-enabled objects from various manufacturers in the Z-Wave Alliance, which consists of over 450 members. Members of the alliance include Intermatic, Leviton, Techniku, Carrier, ADT Corporation, FAKRO, Ingersoll Rand, Jasco, LG Uplus, Nortek Security & Control, Sigma Designs, SmartThings, Honeywell, Bosch, Belkin, Zipato, August Home and Black & Decker.\n\nZ-Wave is designed to provide reliable, low-latency transmission of small data packets at data rates up to 100kbit/s. The throughput is 40kbit/s (9.6kbit/s using old chips) and suitable for control and sensor applications, unlike Wi-Fi and other IEEE 802.11-based wireless LAN systems that are designed primarily for high data rates. Communication distance between two nodes is about 30 meters (40 meters with 500 series chip), and with message ability to hop up to four times between nodes, it gives enough coverage for most residential houses. Modulation is by Manchester channel encoding.\n\nZ-Wave uses the Part 15 unlicensed industrial, scientific, and medical (ISM) band. It operates at 868.42 MHz in Europe, at 908.42 MHz in the North America and uses other frequencies in other countries depending on their regulations. This band competes with some cordless telephones and other consumer electronics devices, but avoids interference with Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and other systems that operate on the crowded band. The lower layers, MAC and PHY, are described by ITU-T G.9959 and fully backwards compatible. In 2012, the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) included the Z-Wave PHY and MAC layers as an option in its G.9959 standard for wireless devices under 1 GHz. Data rates include 9600 bps and 40 kbps, with output power at 1 mW or 0 dBm. The Z-Wave transceiver chips are supplied by Sigma Designs and Mitsumi. \n\nTable of used frequencies in various parts of the world as of January 2017:\nZ-Wave uses a source-routed mesh network architecture. Mesh networks are also known as wireless ad hoc networks. In such networks, devices use the wireless channel to send control messages which are then relayed by neighboring devices in a wave-like fashion. The source device wanting to transmit is therefore known as the initiator. Hence, the name source-initiated mesh ad hoc routing. There were several source-initiated mesh routing protocols proposed in the period early 1990s. The earlier ones were Associativity-Based Routing (ABR) and Dynamic Source Routing (DSR).. \n\nDevices can communicate to one another by using intermediate nodes to actively route around and circumvent household obstacles or radio dead spots that might occur in the multipath environment of a house. A message from node A to node C can be successfully delivered even if the two nodes are not within range, providing that a third node B can communicate with nodes A and C. If the preferred route is unavailable, the message originator will attempt other routes until a path is found to the C node. Therefore, a Z-Wave network can span much farther than the radio range of a single unit; however, with several of these hops a slight delay may be introduced between the control command and the desired result.\n\nThe simplest network is a single controllable device and a primary controller. Additional devices can be added at any time, as can secondary controllers, including traditional hand-held controllers, key-fob controllers, wall-switch controllers and PC applications designed for management and control of a Z-Wave network. A Z-Wave network can consist of up to 232 devices, with the option of bridging networks if more devices are required.\n\nA device must be \"included\" to the Z-Wave network before it can be controlled via Z-Wave. This process (also known as \"pairing\" and \"adding\") is usually achieved by pressing a sequence of buttons on the controller and on the device being added to the network. This sequence only needs to be performed once, after which the device is always recognized by the controller. Devices can be removed from the Z-Wave network by a similar process. The controller learns the signal strength between the devices during the inclusion process, thus the architecture expects the devices to be in their intended final location before they are added to the system. Typically, the controller has a small internal battery backup, allowing it to be unplugged temporarily and taken to the location of a new device for pairing. The controller is then returned to its normal location and reconnected.\n\nEach Z-Wave network is identified by a Network ID, and each device is further identified by a Node ID. The Network ID (also called Home ID) is the common identification of all nodes belonging to one logical Z-Wave network. The Network ID has a length of 4 bytes (32 bits) and is assigned to each device, by the primary controller, when the device is \"included\" into the Network. Nodes with different Network IDs cannot communicate with each other. The Node ID is the address of a single node in the network. The Node ID has a length of 1 byte (8 bits) and must be unique in its network.\n\nThe Z-Wave chip is optimized for battery-powered devices, and most of the time remains in a power saving mode to consume less energy, waking up only to perform its function. With Z-Wave mesh networks, each device in the house bounces wireless signals around the house, which results in low power consumption, allowing devices work for years without needing to replace batteries. For Z-Wave units to be able to route unsolicited messages, they cannot be in sleep mode. Therefore, battery-operated devices are not designed as repeater units. Mobile devices, such as remote controls, are also excluded since Z-Wave assumes that all repeater capable devices in the network remain in their original detected position.\n\nZ-Wave is based on a proprietary design, with Sigma Designs as its primary chip vendor. In 2014, Mitsumi became a licensed second source for Z-Wave 500 series chips. Although there have been a number of academic and practical security researches on home automation systems based on Zigbee and X10 protocols, research is still in its infancy to analyze the Z-Wave protocol stack layers, requiring the design of a radio packet capture device and related software to intercept Z-Wave communications. An early vulnerability was uncovered in AES-encrypted Z-Wave door locks that could be remotely exploited to unlock doors without the knowledge of the encryption keys, and due to the changed keys, subsequent network messages, as in \"door is open\", would be ignored by the established controller of the network. The vulnerability was not due to a flaw in the Z-Wave protocol specification but was an implementation error by the door-lock manufacturer.\n\nOn November 17, 2016, the Z-Wave Alliance announced stronger security standards for devices receiving Z-Wave Certification as of April 2, 2017. Known as Security 2 (or S2), it provides advanced security for smart home devices, gateways and hubs. It shores up encryption standards for transmissions between nodes, and mandates new pairing procedures for each device, with unique PIN or QR codes on each device. The new layer of authentication is intended to prevent hackers from taking control of unsecured or poorly-secured devices. According to the Z-Wave Alliance, the new security standard is the most advanced security available on the market for smart home devices and controllers, gateways and hubs.\n\nThe chip for Z-Wave nodes is the ZW0500, built around an Intel MCS-51 microcontroller with an internal system clock of 32 MHz. The RF part of the chip contains an GisFSK transceiver for a software selectable frequency. With a power supply of 2.2-3.6 volts, it consumes 23mA in transmit mode. Its features include AES-128 encryption, a 100kbps wireless channel, concurrent listening on multiple channels, and USB VCP support.\n\nFor smart-home wireless networking, there are numerous technologies competing to become the standard of choice. Wi-Fi consumes a lot of power, and Bluetooth is limited in signal range and number of devices. Other network standards competing with Z-Wave include Insteon, Thread and ZigBee. Of the three, Z-Wave has the longest open-air operating range at 300 feet (outdoor) and 80+ feet (indoor). Insteon has the largest number of maximum devices capability at 17.7 million (to ZigBee's 65,000 and Z-Wave's 232). Thread has the fastest data transmission rate at 250 kbps. Z-Wave has better interoperability than ZigBee, but ZigBee has a faster data transmission rate. Thread operates on the busy Wi-Fi standard frequency of 2.4 GHz, while Z-Wave operates at 908 MHz in the US, which has reduced noise and a greater coverage area. ZigBee operates on both 915 MHz and 2.4 GHz frequencies. All three are mesh networks. The Z-Wave MAC/PHY is globally standardized by the International Telecommunications Union as ITU 9959 radio, and the Z-Wave Interoperability, Security (S2), Middleware and Z-Wave over IP specifications were all released into the public domain in 2016, making Z-Wave highly accessible to Internet of Things developers.\n\n"}
