{"id": "8208548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8208548", "title": "A256 road", "text": "A256 road\n\nThe A256 is a key road running north-south through East Kent which connects the Thanet towns to Dover. It is operated by Kent County Council as a primary route, and has seen investment in the past to connect traffic to the Port of Ramsgate, and to the Pfizer research centre in Sandwich.\n\nThe road begins in the outskirts of the Thanet town of Broadstairs, at a roundabout with the A255 where it heads westwards through the Westwood Retail Parks via \"Westwood Road\".\n\nThe A256 then passes 2 roundabouts with residential estates on the left before arriving at a couple of smaller roundabouts with exits to the left and right into the various retail parks. Most of these parks were built during the early 2000s.\nAlso in Westwood, the A256 meets a large roundabout with the A254 Margate Road. Here the A256 heads south-westwards, called 'Haine Road', passing Westwood Cross shopping centre on the left (built on the former Haine Hospital site) at a roundabout with Manston Court Road (on the right). The A256 then briefly bypasses the village of Haine, along New Haine Road, constructed in early 2009, which heads southeastwards alongside Westwood Cross shopping centre, before heading southwestwards after another roundabout, and passing The Marlowe Academy. At the next roundabout, with the Euro Kent Business Park situated on the left, the A256 then rejoins its original route along Haine Road.\n\nHere, the route of the A256 takes a more southerly direction, travelling in the direction of Sandwich. The three cooling towers of Richborough Power Station could once be seen in the distance, before they were demolished in March 2012.\nFurther along Haine Road the A256 becomes dual carriageway for about 300 metres (0.2 miles) with its junction with the B2050 Manston Road.\n\nApproximately 600 metres (0.4 miles) after this junction, the A256 encounters a double roundabout junction, known as the \"Lord of the Manor\" roundabout, named after the pub on the junction. At the first junction there are exits for the A299 (formerly A253) towards London and Canterbury, and for the (joint) A256/A299 towards Ramsgate and Dover. A railway line separates the two roundabouts and passes underneath the main dual road A256/A299, with high white concrete walls on both sides of the road. At the second roundabout there are exits for the A299 travelling towards Ramsgate and the A256, travelling southwards, towards Sandwich. It is here where the A256 becomes a primary route.\n\nShortly after the Lord of the Manor roundabout, the A256 Sandwich Road bends to the right, now facing a more south-westerly direction as it enters the village of Cliffsend. The majority of the built-up area of Cliffsend is on the western side of the road. The land to the south of the village is relatively flat and low-lying (just 3 metres above sea level). It previously formed the Wantsum Channel which used to separate the Isle of Thanet from mainland Kent. The famous Viking Ship 'Hugin' sits on the east side of the A256, separating the road from the sea. St Augustines Golf Club is situated next to the A256 south-west of Cliffsend. Cliffsend also forms the boundary on the A256 between Thanet District Council and Dover District Council.\n\nThe single road then travels through low and flat land, passing Richborough Port, Castle, and disused Power Station. A Subway and petrol stations are also situated on the left-hand and right hand sides of the road, in between the road and Sandwich Bay.\nThe River Stour, which previously formed part of the Wantsum Channel, runs parallel on both sides of Ramsgate Road. At the next roundabout, the original A256 Ramsgate Road leaves the new bypass, and heads towards Sandwich town centre. The bypass itself continues the route of the A256 in a slow semicircle to the west of the town of Sandwich. The bypass is composed of four roundabouts; the second roundabout has three more exits – the A257 Canterbury Road heading towards Canterbury, a minor road travelling towards Sandwich town centre (previously the A257 before the bypass was built) and the A256 bypass travelling southwards towards Dover. At the third roundabout of the Sandwich bypass, there are three more exits – the former A256 towards Sandwich, the A258 (which actually continues the Sandwich bypass for a further 0.3 miles) towards Deal, and the A256 Sandwich Road towards Dover. Here the A256 changes to a south-westerly direction, briefly bypassing the village of Eastry for approximately . Note there are two filling stations (Total & Texaco). There is another petrol station which is Jet nearby. All of them had car washes.\n\nThe Eastry bypass ends with a roundabout where the former A256 rejoins the current route known as \"Dover Road\" onto a dual carriageway. However, as the A256 continues to travel southwards, about a mile further south the old A256 Dover Road leaves the new bypass and passes through the village of Tilmanstone, whilst the current A256 dual carriageway diverts on a more easterly journey. Approximately further south from this junction is a roundabout where the old A256 once again rejoins the dual carriageway – there is also a minor road on the left heading towards East Studdal.\n\nShortly after this roundabout, the A256 splits once again and continues on a dual carriageway bypass whilst the former A256 Sandwich Road travels through the village of Whitfield before arriving at a large roundabout south of Whitfield, with the A2. \nThe current A256 dual carriageway actually arrives at a junction with the A2 dual carriageway a further to the east, where the A2 and A256 merge and travel westwards for 700 metres until the roundabout at Whitfield. \n\nThis is where the A256 loses its primary route status and also becomes a single road, travelling south westwards briefly for (approximately) 0.6 miles, before turning left onto London Road, heading towards Dover town centre in a south-easterly direction. Roughly along London Road and the A256 enters the built up area of Buckland and travels downhill towards Dover. \n\nSoon after passing underneath a railway bridge, a one-way system is encountered where the road number A256 is given to both Buckland Avenue and London Road which form part of the one-way system.\nEventually, after meeting the A258 once again on the downhill part of the one-way system, the A256 terminates on the A20 Townwall Street, which runs parallel to the coastline, north-eastwards towards the A2 Jubilee Way and south-westwards towards Folkestone and the M20 motorway.\n\n"}
{"id": "2301375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2301375", "title": "A5127 road", "text": "A5127 road\n\nThe A5127 is a major road in England which runs between Birmingham and Lichfield, Staffordshire. For much of the route the road follows the old route of the A38 which has since been moved in order to by-pass places such as Erdington and Sutton Coldfield and form a relief road from Birmingham city centre to Spaghetti Junction.\n\nThe part from the county boundary, through Shenstone to Lichfield was one of the roads of the Lichfield Turnpike Trust, established in 1729. Beyond Lichfield, it joins the Roman Ryknild Street at Streethay and immediately after that joins the present A38.\n\nMain places and junctions along the A5127:\n\nThis route closely follows the Cross-City Line.\n"}
{"id": "4343782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4343782", "title": "Administrative divisions of Chad", "text": "Administrative divisions of Chad\n\nThe administrative divisions of Chad have often changed since 1900, when the territory was first created by France as part of its colonial empire, with the name \"Territoire Militaire des pays et protectorats du Tchad\". The first subdivision took place in 1910, when 9 circonscriptions were made, named \"départements\" (departments) in 1935 and \"régions\" (regions) in 1947. As for the regions, they were further divided in districts.\n\nIn 1960, immediately before independence, the \"régions\" became \"préfectures\" (prefectures), and the districts instead \"sous-prefectures\" (sub-prefectures). The prefectures were in origin 11, later on raising to 14. In 1999 they were modified in 28 departments; this was ultimately changed in 2002, when 18 regions replaced them. As for the regions, they are divided in departments, while the latter are divided in sub-prefectures. After a series of splits in 2008 the number of regions increased to 22. In 2012 Ennedi Region was split into Ennedi-Est and Ennedi-Ouest, producing the current 23 regions.\n\nOn September 5, 1900, a decree signed by the French President Émile Loubet officially created the \"Territoire militaire des pays et protectorats du Tchad\" as part of the growing French colonial empire. The new territory was placed under the command of a Commissioner who answered to the High Commissioner of the French Congo (called French Equatorial Africa (AEF) after 1910), of which Chad was a circuscription.\n\nIn 1906 Chad was merged with the Oubangui-Chari, becoming an autonomous territory within the \"Oubangui-Chari-Tchad\" colony, suppressed in 1916. In 1920 Chad was placed on an equal standing with the other AEF colonies (i. e. Gabon, Oubangui-Chari and Middle Congo).\n\nIt was only in 1958, when Chad was granted territorial autonomy, that the country was separated from the AEF. Two years later Chad was to come full independence under the government of François Tombalbaye and of the Chadian Progressive Party.\n\nThe first Governor-General of French Equatorial Africa, Martial Merlin, built in 1910 for all the colonies he administered a two levels structure. Chad was divided in 9 \"circonscriptions\" (circumscriptions), with Fort-Lamy (today N'Djamena) as capital; two years later, as an underdivision of the regions, the \"subdivisions\" were introduced. The Mayo-Kebbi circumscription disappeared in 1911 when the left bank of the Logone River was ceded to the German colony of Kamerun as part of the exchange for the French protectorate over Morocco. the area was retaken by France in World War I, and some years later, in 1922, the circumscription was restored and given back to Chad. On the other side Moyen-Chari was part of Oubangui-Chari from 1925 to 1933.\n\nIn 1914 a new circumscription was added with Borkou-Ennedi, renamed Borkou-Ennedi-Tibesti in 1930 when the Tibesti was passed from Niger to Chad.\n\nIn 1934 all the AEF was the object of a major administrative reorganization, known as Renard reform after the Governor-General Edouard Renard. Meant to cut down the maintainment costs and transform the AEF in an unitary colony divided in 4 regions. Chad was placed under a \"commandant de région\" who awnsered to the Governor-Delegate in Bangui, who instead was under the Governor-General in Brazzaville.\n\nThe circumscriptions of Chad took the name of departments and many of them were merged, while two departments, Logone (united with the Mayo-Kebbi) and Chari-Bangoran (Moyen-Chari and N'Délé) were separated from Chad and placed directly under Bangui's administration.\n\nThe radicality of these centralization measures proved themselves unsustainable, causing their reversion on the return to the previous structure of the AEF in 1936. In that year Logone and Moyen-Chari were returned to Chad while both Kanem-Batha and Chari-Baguirmi were split restoring the original 10 subdivisions. In 1944 the departments were brought to 9, when Bas-Chari and Baguirmi were merged back to recreate Chari-Baguirmi.\n\nIn 1937 Chad was made fully independent from Bangui but the administrator was given the lesser rank of \"commandant\". The following year his rank was increased to \"governeur\" (governor), reestablishing a full parity among the AEF colonies.\n\nThis is the situation of Chad on December 31, 1945, concerning departments and subdivisions: \n\n"}
{"id": "13160311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13160311", "title": "Airborne Real-time Cueing Hyperspectral Enhanced Reconnaissance", "text": "Airborne Real-time Cueing Hyperspectral Enhanced Reconnaissance\n\nAirborne Real-time Cueing Hyperspectral Enhanced Reconnaissance, also known by the acronym ARCHER, is an aerial imaging system that produces ground images far more detailed than plain sight or ordinary aerial photography can.\nIt is the most sophisticated unclassified hyperspectral imaging system available, according to U.S. Government officials.\nARCHER can automatically scan detailed imaging for a given signature of the object being sought (such as a missing aircraft), for abnormalities in the surrounding area, or for changes from previous recorded spectral signatures.\n\nIt has direct applications for search and rescue, counterdrug, disaster relief and impact assessment, and homeland security, and has been deployed by the Civil Air Patrol (CAP) in the US on the Australian-built Gippsland GA8 Airvan fixed-wing aircraft. CAP, the civilian auxiliary of the United States Air Force, is a volunteer education and public-service non-profit organization that conducts aircraft search and rescue in the US.\n\nARCHER is a daytime non-invasive technology, which works by analyzing an object’s reflected light. It cannot detect objects at night, underwater, under dense cover, underground, under snow or inside buildings. The system uses a special camera facing down through a quartz glass portal in the belly of the aircraft, which is typically flown at a standard mission altitude of 2500 feet (800 meters) and 100 knots (50 meters/second) ground speed.\n\nThe system software was developed by Space Computer Corporation of Los Angeles and the system hardware is supplied by NovaSol Corp. of Honolulu, Hawaii specifically for CAP. The ARCHER system is based on hyperspectral technology research and testing previously undertaken by the United States Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) and Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL).\nCAP developed ARCHER in cooperation with the NRL, AFRL and the United States Coast Guard Research & Development Center in the largest interagency project CAP has undertaken in its 74-year history.\n\nSince 2003, almost US$5 million authorized under the 2002 Defense Appropriations Act has been spent on development and deployment. , CAP reported completing the initial deployment of 16 aircraft throughout the U.S. and training over 100 operators, but had only used the system on a few search and rescue missions, and had not credited it with being the first to find any wreckage.\nIn searches in Georgia and Maryland during 2007, ARCHER located the aircraft wreckage, but both accidents had no survivors, according to Col. Drew Alexa, director of advanced technology, and the ARCHER program manager at CAP. An ARCHER equipped aircraft from the Utah Wing of the Civil Air Patrol was used in the search for adventurer Steve Fossett in September 2007. ARCHER did not locate Mr. Fossett, but was instrumental in uncovering eight previously uncharted crash sites in the high desert area of Nevada,\nsome decades old.\n\nCol. Alexa described the system to the press in 2007: \"The human eye sees basically three bands of light. The ARCHER sensor sees 50. It can see things that are anomalous in the vegetation such as metal or something from an airplane wreckage.\" Major Cynthia Ryan of the Nevada Civil Air Patrol, while also describing the system to the press in 2007, stated, \"ARCHER is essentially something used by the geosciences. It's pretty sophisticated stuff … beyond what the human eye can generally see,\" She elaborated further, \"It might see boulders, it might see trees, it might see mountains, sagebrush, whatever, but it goes 'not that' or 'yes, that'. The amazing part of this is that it can see as little as 10 per cent of the target, and extrapolate from there.\"\n\nIn addition to the primary search and rescue mission, CAP has tested additional uses for ARCHER. For example, an ARCHER equipped CAP GA8 was used in a pilot project in Missouri in August 2005 to assess the suitability of the system for tracking hazardous material releases into the environment, and one was deployed to track oil spills in the aftermath of Hurricane Rita in Texas during September 2005.\n\nSince then, in the case of a flight originating in Missouri, the ARCHER system proved its usefulness in October 2006, when it found the wreckage in Antlers, Okla. The National Transportation and Safety Board was extremely pleased with the data ARCHER provided, which was later used to locate aircraft debris spread over miles of rough, wooded terrain. In July 2007, the ARCHER system identified a flood-borne oil spill originating in a Kansas oil refinery, that extended downstream and had invaded previously unsuspected reservoir areas. The client agencies (EPA, Coast Guard, and other federal and state agencies) found the data essential to quick remediation. In September 2008, a Civil Air Patrol GA-8 from Texas Wing searched for a missing aircraft from Arkansas. It was found in Oklahoma, identified simultaneously by ground searchers and the overflying ARCHER system. Rather than a direct find, this was a validation of the system's accuracy and efficacy. In the subsequent recovery, it was found that the ARCHER plotted the debris area with great accuracy.\n\nThe major ARCHER subsystem components include:\n\nThe passive hyperspectral imaging spectroscopy remote sensor observes a target in multi-spectral bands. The HSI camera separates the image spectra into 52 \"bins\" from 500 nanometers (nm) wavelength at the blue end of the visible spectrum to 1100 nm in the infrared, giving the camera a spectral resolution of 11.5 nm. Although ARCHER records data in all 52 bands, the computational algorithms only use the first 40 bands, from 500 nm to 960 nm because the bands above 960 nm are too noisy to be useful. For comparison, the normal human eye will respond to wavelengths from approximately 400 to 700 nm, and is trichromatic, meaning the eye's cone cells only sense light in three spectral bands.\n\nAs the ARCHER aircraft flies over a search area, reflected sunlight is collected by the HSI camera lens. The collected light passes through a set of lenses that focus the light to form an image of the ground. The imaging system uses a pushbroom approach to image acquisition. With the pushbroom approach, the focusing slit reduces the image height to the equivalent of one vertical pixel, creating a horizontal line image.\n\nThe horizontal line image is then projected onto a diffraction grating, which is a very finely etched reflecting surface that disperses light into its spectra. The diffraction grating is specially constructed and positioned to create a two-dimensional (2D) spectrum image from the horizontal line image. The spectra are projected vertically, i.e., perpendicular to the line image, by the design and arrangement of the diffraction grating.\n\nThe 2D spectrum image projects onto a charge-coupled device (CCD) two-dimensional image sensor, which is aligned so that the horizontal pixels are parallel to the image's horizontal. As a result, the vertical pixels are coincident to the spectra produced from the diffraction grating. Each column of pixels receives the spectrum of one horizontal pixel from the original image. The arrangement of vertical pixel sensors in the CCD divides the spectrum into distinct and non-overlapping intervals. The CCD output consists of electrical signals for 52 spectral bands for each of 504 horizontal image pixels.\n\nThe on-board computer records the CCD output signal at a frame rate of sixty times each second. At an aircraft altitude of 2,500 ft AGL and a speed of 100 knots, a 60 Hz frame rate equates to a ground image resolution of approximately one square meter per pixel. Thus, every frame captured from the CCD contains the spectral data for a ground swath that is approximately one meter long and 500 meters wide.\n\nA high-resolution imaging (HRI) black-and-white, or panchromatic, camera is mounted adjacent to the HSI camera to enable both cameras to capture the same reflected light. The HRI camera uses a pushbroom approach just like the HSI camera with a similar lens and slit arrangement to limit the incoming light to a thin, wide beam. However, the HRI camera does not have a diffraction grating to disperse the incoming reflected light. Instead, the light is directed to a wider CCD to capture more image data. Because it captures a single line of the ground image per frame, it is called a line scan camera. The HRI CCD is 6,144 pixels wide and one pixel high. It operates at a frame rate of 720 Hz. At ARCHER search speed and altitude (100 knots over the ground at 2,500 ft AGL) each pixel in the black-and-white image represents a 3 inch by 3 inch area of the ground. This high resolution adds the capability to identify some objects.\n\nA monitor in the cockpit displays detailed images in real time, and the system also logs the image and Global Positioning System data at a rate of 30 gigabytes (GB) per hour for later analysis. The on-board data processing system performs numerous real-time processing functions including data acquisition and recording, raw data correction, target detection, cueing and chipping, precision image geo-registration, and display and dissemination of image products and target cue information.\n\nARCHER has three methods for locating targets:\n\nIn change detection, scene changes are identified, and new, moved or departed targets are highlighted for evaluation. In spectral signature matching, the system can be programmed with the parameters of a missing aircraft, such as paint colors, to alert the operators of possible wreckage. It can also be used to look for specific materials, such as petroleum products or other chemicals released into the environment, or even ordinary items like commonly available blue polyethylene tarpaulins. In an impact assessment role, information on the location of blue tarps used to temporarily repair buildings damaged in a storm can help direct disaster relief efforts; in a counterdrug role, a blue tarp located in a remote area could be associated with illegal activity.\n\n"}
{"id": "307160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307160", "title": "Arabah", "text": "Arabah\n\nThe Arabah (, \"Wādī ʻAraba\"), or Arava/ Aravah (, \"HaAravah\", lit. \"desolate and dry area\"), as it is known by its respective Arabic and Hebrew names, is a geographic area south of the Dead Sea basin, which forms part of the border between Israel to the west and Jordan to the east.\n\nThe old meaning, which was in use up to the early 20th century, covered almost the entire length of what today is called the Jordan Rift Valley, running in a north-south orientation between the southern end of the Sea of Galilee and the northern tip of the Gulf of Aqaba at Aqaba/ Eilat. This included the Jordan River Valley between the Sea of Galilee and the Dead Sea, the Dead Sea itself, and what today is commonly called the Arava Valley. The contemporary use of the term is restricted to this southern section alone.\n\nThe Arabah is in length, from the Gulf of Aqaba to the southern shore of the Dead Sea.\n\nTopographically, the region is divided into three sections. From the Gulf of Aqaba northward, the land gradually rises over a distance of , and reaches a height of above sea level, which represents the watershed divide between the Dead Sea and the Red Sea. From this crest, the land slopes gently northward over the next to a point south of the Dead Sea. In the last section, the Arabah drops steeply to the Dead Sea, which is below sea level.\n\nThe Arabah is scenic with colorful cliffs and sharp-topped mountains. The southern Arabah is hot and dry and virtually without rain.\n\nThere are numerous species of flora and fauna in the Aravah Valley. Notably the caracal (\"Caracal caracal\") is found on the valley's savanna areas.\n\nIn Biblical times, the Arava was a center of copper production; King Solomon is believed to have had mines here based on copper mines dating to his reign. The Arabah, especially its eastern part, was part of the realm of the Edomites (called \"Idumeans\" during the Roman times). Later the eastern Arabah became the domain of the Nabateans, the builders of the city of Petra.\n\nThe Israel–Jordan Peace Treaty was signed in the Arava on October 26, 1994. The governments of Jordan and Israel are promoting development of the region. There is a plan to bring sea water from the Red Sea to the Dead Sea through a canal (Red–Dead Seas Canal), which follows along the Arabah. This (long envisioned) project was once an issue of dispute between Jordan and Israel, but it was recently agreed that the project shall be constructed on and by the Jordanian side.\n\nIn 2004, the Jordanian administrative district of Wadi Araba had a population of 6,775. Five major tribes comprise eight settlements on the Jordanian side: Al-S'eediyeen (), Al-Ihewat (), Al-Ammareen (), Al-Rashaideh (), and Al-Azazmeh (), as well as smaller tribes of the Al-Oseifat (), Al-Rawajfeh (), Al-Manaja'h (), and Al-Marzaqa (), among others. The main economic activities for these Arabah residents revolve around herding sheep, agriculture, handicrafts, and the Jordanian Army.\n\nTimna Valley Park is notable for its prehistoric rock carvings, some of the oldest copper mines in the world, and a convoluted cliff called King Solomon's pillars. On the Jordanian side is the famous Wadi Rum, which is famous among rock climbers, hikers, campers, and lovers of the outdoors. Also in Jordan is the copper mining area of Wadi Feynan, including the site of Khirbat en-Nahas, corresponding to the one from Timna Valley in the west.\n\nFeynan Ecolodge was opened in Wadi Feynan by the Royal Society for the Conservation of Nature in 2005.\n\nBelow is a list of Jordanian population clusters in Wadi Araba:\nThe total population of the Jordanian portion of the region is 103,000, of which 96,000 live in Aqaba.\n\nBelow is a list of Israeli localities in the Arava, from north to south.\n\n\nThe population of the Israeli portion is 52,000, of which 47,500 live in Eilat, and just over 5,000 live in 20 small towns north of Eilat, the largest of which is Yotvata, with a population of 610. The Israeli residents of the region are almost entirely Jewish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35273816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35273816", "title": "Bowie Canyon", "text": "Bowie Canyon\n\nThe Bowie Canyon is a submarine canyon located in the Bering Sea. It is a submerged line of demarkation between the Bowers Ridge and the Aleutian Ridge. At its deepest point, it is 1.3 miles deep. It is named after American geodetic engineer, William Bowie.\n"}
{"id": "25608837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25608837", "title": "Chios Strait", "text": "Chios Strait\n\nThe Chios Strait, or the Chios Channel as referred to by some sources, is a relatively narrow strait in the eastern Aegean Sea that separates the Greek island of Chios from the Anatolian mainland and from the Aegean Region of Turkey.\n\nThe Chios Strait is approximately 3 nautical miles in width, and it is the body of water that separates Chios from the isthmuses along the western extremity of the Karaburun Peninsula in Turkey. The peninsula hosts many major districts and cities in İzmir Province, including the municipality of Çeşme, the westernmost city along the peninsula and, therefore, the closest to Chios. Çeşme is one of the northern cities of the Turkish Riviera, and almost its entire coastline is situated along the waters of the strait. In many situations, such as in the photograph to the right, the mountains of Chios and the Chios Strait can easily be viewed from Turkey, and vice versa along the east coast of Chios from settlements such as Karfas. The hospitable water conditions of the Chios Strait make it a very common tourism and boating destination on both the Greek and Turkish coasts.\n\n"}
{"id": "142440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142440", "title": "Climatology", "text": "Climatology\n\nClimatology (from Greek , \"klima\", \"place, zone\"; and , \"-logia\") or climate science is the scientific study of climate, scientifically defined as weather conditions averaged over a period of time. This modern field of study is regarded as a branch of the atmospheric sciences and a subfield of physical geography, which is one of the Earth sciences. Climatology now includes aspects of oceanography and biogeochemistry. Basic knowledge of climate can be used within shorter term weather forecasting using analog techniques such as the El Niño–Southern Oscillation (ENSO), the Madden–Julian oscillation (MJO), the North Atlantic oscillation (NAO), the Northern Annular Mode (NAM) which is also known as the Arctic oscillation (AO), the Northern Pacific (NP) Index, the Pacific decadal oscillation (PDO), and the Interdecadal Pacific Oscillation (IPO). Climate models are used for a variety of purposes from study of the dynamics of the weather and climate system to projections of future climate. Weather is known as the condition of the atmosphere over a period of time, while climate has to do with the atmospheric condition over an extended to indefinite period of time.\n\nChinese scientist Shen Kuo (1031–1095) inferred that climates naturally shifted over an enormous span of time, after observing petrified bamboos found underground near Yanzhou (modern day Yan'an, Shaanxi province), a dry-climate area unsuitable for the growth of bamboo.\n\nEarly climate researchers include Edmund Halley, who published a map of the trade winds in 1686 after a voyage to the southern hemisphere. Benjamin Franklin (1706–1790) first mapped the course of the Gulf Stream for use in sending mail from the United States to Europe. Francis Galton (1822–1911) invented the term \"anticyclone\". Helmut Landsberg (1906–1985) fostered the use of statistical analysis in climatology, which led to its evolution into a physical science.\n\nThe Greeks began the formal study of climate; in fact the word climate is derived from the Greek word klima, meaning \"slope,\" referring to the slope or inclination of the Earth's axis. The first distinct climate treaties were the works of Hippocrates, who wrote Airs, Water and Places in 400 B.C.E.\n\nClimatology is approached in various ways such as Paleoclimatology, which seeks to reconstruct past climates by examining records such as ice cores and tree rings (dendroclimatology). Paleotempestology uses these same records to help determine hurricane frequency over millennia. The study of contemporary climates incorporates meteorological data accumulated over many years, such as records of rainfall, temperature and atmospheric composition. Knowledge of the atmosphere and its dynamics is also embodied in models, either statistical or mathematical, which help by integrating different observations and testing how they fit together. Modeling is used for understanding past, present and potential future climates. Historical climatology is the study of climate as related to human history and thus focuses only on the last few thousand years.\n\nClimate research is made difficult by the large scale, long time periods, and complex processes which govern climate. Climate is governed by physical laws which can be expressed as differential equations. These equations are coupled and nonlinear, so that approximate solutions are obtained by using numerical methods to create global climate models. Climate is sometimes modeled as a stochastic process but this is generally accepted as an approximation to processes that are otherwise too complicated to analyze.\n\nScientists use climate indices based on several climate patterns (known as modes of variability) in their attempt to characterize and understand the various climate mechanisms that culminate in our daily weather. Much in the way the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which is based on the stock prices of 30 companies, is used to represent the fluctuations in the stock market as a whole, climate indices are used to represent the essential elements of climate. Climate indices are generally devised with the twin objectives of simplicity and completeness, and each index typically represents the status and timing of the climate factor it represents. By their very nature, indices are simple, and combine many details into a generalized, overall description of the atmosphere or ocean which can be used to characterize the factors which impact the global climate system.\n\nEl Niño–Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a global coupled ocean-atmosphere phenomenon. The Pacific Ocean signatures, El Niño and La Niña are important temperature fluctuations in surface waters of the tropical Eastern Pacific Ocean. The name El Niño, from the Spanish for \"the little boy\", refers to the Christ child, because the phenomenon is usually noticed around Christmas time in the Pacific Ocean off the west coast of South America. La Niña means \"the little girl\". Their effect on climate in the subtropics and the tropics are profound. The atmospheric signature, the Southern Oscillation (SO) reflects the monthly or seasonal fluctuations in the air pressure difference between Tahiti and Darwin. The most recent occurrence of El Niño started in September 2006 and lasted until early 2007.\n\nENSO is a set of interacting parts of a single global system of coupled ocean-atmosphere climate fluctuations that come about as a consequence of oceanic and atmospheric circulation. ENSO is the most prominent known source of inter-annual variability in weather and climate around the world. The cycle occurs every two to seven years, with El Niño lasting nine months to two years within the longer term cycle, though not all areas globally are affected. ENSO has signatures in the Pacific, Atlantic and Indian Oceans.\n\nIn the Pacific, during major warm events, El Niño warming extends over much of the tropical Pacific and becomes clearly linked to the SO intensity. While ENSO events are basically in phase between the Pacific and Indian Oceans, ENSO events in the Atlantic Ocean lag behind those in the Pacific by 12–18 months. Many of the countries most affected by ENSO events are developing countries within tropical sections of continents with economies that are largely dependent upon their agricultural and fishery sectors as a major source of food supply, employment, and foreign exchange. New capabilities to predict the onset of ENSO events in the three oceans can have global socio-economic impacts. While ENSO is a global and natural part of the Earth's climate, whether its intensity or frequency may change as a result of global warming is an important concern. Low-frequency variability has been evidenced: the quasi-decadal oscillation (QDO). Inter-decadal (ID) modulation of ENSO (from PDO or IPO) might exist. This could explain the so-called protracted ENSO of the early 1990s.\n\nThe Madden–Julian oscillation (MJO) is an equatorial traveling pattern of anomalous rainfall that is planetary in scale. It is characterized by an eastward progression of large regions of both enhanced and suppressed tropical rainfall, observed mainly over the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The anomalous rainfall is usually first evident over the western Indian Ocean, and remains evident as it propagates over the very warm ocean waters of the western and central tropical Pacific. This pattern of tropical rainfall then generally becomes very nondescript as it moves over the cooler ocean waters of the eastern Pacific but reappears over the tropical Atlantic and Indian Oceans. The wet phase of enhanced convection and precipitation is followed by a dry phase where convection is suppressed. Each cycle lasts approximately 30–60 days. The MJO is also known as the 30- to 60-day oscillation, 30- to 60-day wave, or the intraseasonal oscillation.\n\nIndices of the NAO are based on the difference of normalized sea level pressure (SLP) between Ponta Delgada, Azores and Stykkisholmur/Reykjavik, Iceland. The SLP anomalies at each station were normalized by division of each seasonal mean pressure by the long-term mean (1865–1984) standard deviation. Normalization is done to avoid the series of being dominated by the greater variability of the northern of the two stations. Positive values of the index indicate stronger-than-average westerlies over the middle latitudes.\n\nThe NAM, or AO, is defined as the first EOF of northern hemisphere winter SLP data from the tropics and subtropics. It explains 23% of the average winter (December–March) variance, and it is dominated by the NAO structure in the Atlantic. Although there are some subtle differences from the regional pattern over the Atlantic and Arctic, the main difference is larger amplitude anomalies over the North Pacific of the same sign as those over the Atlantic. This feature gives the NAM a more annular (or zonally symmetric) structure.\n\nThe NP Index is the area-weighted sea level pressure over the region 30N–65N, 160E–140W.\n\nThe PDO is a pattern of Pacific climate variability that shifts phases on at least inter-decadal time scale, usually about 20 to 30 years. The PDO is detected as warm or cool surface waters in the Pacific Ocean, north of 20° N. During a \"warm\", or \"positive\", phase, the west Pacific becomes cool and part of the eastern ocean warms; during a \"cool\" or \"negative\" phase, the opposite pattern occurs. The mechanism by which the pattern lasts over several years has not been identified; one suggestion is that a thin layer of warm water during summer may shield deeper cold waters. A PDO signal has been reconstructed to 1661 through tree-ring chronologies in the Baja California area.\n\nThe Interdecadal Pacific oscillation (IPO or ID) display similar sea surface temperature (SST) and sea level pressure patterns to the PDO, with a cycle of 15–30 years, but affects both the north and south Pacific. In the tropical Pacific, maximum SST anomalies are found away from the equator. This is quite different from the quasi-decadal oscillation (QDO) with a period of 8–12 years and maximum SST anomalies straddling the equator, thus resembling ENSO.\n\nClimate models use quantitative methods to simulate the interactions of the atmosphere, oceans, land surface, and ice. They are used for a variety of purposes from study of the dynamics of the weather and climate system to projections of future climate. All climate models balance, or very nearly balance, incoming energy as short wave (including visible) electromagnetic radiation to the earth with outgoing energy as long wave (infrared) electromagnetic radiation from the earth. Any unbalance results in a change in the average temperature of the earth.\n\nThe most talked-about models of recent years have been those relating temperature to emissions of carbon dioxide (see greenhouse gas). These models predict an upward trend in the surface temperature record, as well as a more rapid increase in temperature at higher latitudes.\n\nModels can range from relatively simple to quite complex:\n\nIn contrast to meteorology, which focuses on short term weather systems lasting up to a few weeks, climatology studies the frequency and trends of those systems. It studies the periodicity of weather events over years to millennia, as well as changes in long-term average weather patterns, in relation to atmospheric conditions. study both the nature of climates – local, regional or global – and the natural or human-induced factors that cause climates to change. Climatology considers the past and can help predict future climate change.\n\nPhenomena of climatological interest include the atmospheric boundary layer, circulation patterns, heat transfer (radiative, convective and latent), interactions between the atmosphere and the oceans and land surface (particularly vegetation, land use and topography), and the chemical and physical composition of the atmosphere.\n\nA more complicated way of making a forecast, the analog technique requires remembering a previous weather event which is expected to be mimicked by an upcoming event. What makes it a difficult technique to use is that there is rarely a perfect analog for an event in the future. Some call this type of forecasting pattern recognition, which remains a useful method of observing rainfall over data voids such as oceans with knowledge of how satellite imagery relates to precipitation rates over land, as well as the forecasting of precipitation amounts and distribution in the future. A variation on this theme is used in Medium Range forecasting, which is known as teleconnections, when you use systems in other locations to help pin down the location of another system within the surrounding regime. One method of using teleconnections are by using climate indices such as ENSO-related phenomena.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21505845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21505845", "title": "Convention on the Law of the Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses", "text": "Convention on the Law of the Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses\n\nThe Convention on the Law of Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses, commonly referred to as the UN Watercourses Convention, is an international treaty, adopted by the United Nations on 21 May 1997, pertaining to the uses and conservation of all waters that cross international boundaries, including both surface and groundwater. \"Mindful of increasing demands for water and the impact of human behavior\", the UN drafted the document to help conserve and manage water resources for present and future generations. From the time of its drafting, the Convention took more than 17 years to enter into force on 17 August 2014. With the treaty having been ratified by just 36 states, the majority of countries, especially the key ones, remain outside its scope. The convention, however, is regarded as an important step in establishing international law governing water.\n\nIn northern hemisphere autumn of 2008, the UN began reviewing a law proposed by the International Law Commission to serve similar purpose to the unratified document, but was considering adopting the proposal as guideline rather than immediately attempting to draft it into law.\n\nThe International Law Commission (ILC) was requested by the United Nations in 1970 to prepare viable international guidelines for water use comparable to The Helsinki Rules on the Uses of the Waters of International Rivers, which had been approved by the International Law Association in 1966 but which failed to address aquifers that were not connected to a drainage basin. After the ILC completed its project in 1994, the UN Sixth Committee drafted the Convention on the Law of Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses based on their proposal. The General Assembly adopted the document on 21 May 1997 with only three dissenting in a vote of 106.\n\nThe document sought to impose upon UN member states an obligation to consider the impact of their actions on other states with an interest in a water resource and to equitably share the resource, mindful of variant factors such as population size and availability of other resources.\n\nEach member state that shares in a resource is required to provide information to other sharing states about the condition of the watercourse and about their planned uses for it, allowing sufficient time for other sharing states to study the use and object if the use is perceived to be harmful. The document permits a state with urgent need to immediately utilize a watercourse, providing that it notifies sharing states both of the use and the urgency. In the event that a use is perceived to be harmful, it requires member states to negotiate a mutually acceptable solution, appealing for arbitration as necessary to uninvolved states or international organizations such as the International Court of Justice.\n\nThe treaty also requires states to take reasonable steps to control damage, such as caused by pollution or the introduction of species not native to the watercourse, and imposes an obligation on states that damage a shared water resource to take steps to remedy the damage or to compensate sharing states for the loss. It includes provisions for managing natural damage to waterways, such as caused by drought or erosion, and mandated that sharing states notify others immediately of emergency conditions related to the watercourse that may affect them, such as flooding or waterborne diseases.\n\nArticle 7 of the document, entitled, \"Obligation not to cause significant harm,\" requires that member states \"in utilizing an international watercourse in their territories ... take all appropriate measures to prevent the causing of significant harm to other watercourse states\" and compensate sharing states for any such harm. According to Stephen McCaffrey of the McGeorge School of Law, this is \"the most controversial provision\" of the Convention, with conflict stemming from the fact that a state may have legitimate uses for a watercourse in its nation that can negatively impact other nations. He offers the following example:\nSuppose ... upstream State A has not significantly developed its water resources because of its mountainous terrain. The topography of the downstream states on the watercourse, B and C, is flatter, and they have used the watercourse extensively for irrigation for centuries, if not millennia. State A now wishes to develop its water resources for hydroelectric and agricultural purposes. States B and C cry foul, on the ground that this would significantly harm their established uses.\nMcCaffrey indicates that controversy here stemmed from the UN's adaptation of text by the ILC with the intention of strengthening the obligation to do no harm, as the ILC's language more heavily emphasized the \"equitable utilization\", or balance of the various needs of the states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21985535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21985535", "title": "Dictionnaire Bouillet", "text": "Dictionnaire Bouillet\n\nDictionnaire Bouillet is the informal title of the Dictionnaire universel d'histoire et de géographie (\"Universal Dictionary of History and Geography\"), a French reference work in the public domain. The first edition was published in 1842; the 34th and final edition was published in 1914. \nThe original authors were Marie-Nicolas Bouillet (d. 1865) and Alexis Chassang (1827–78).\n\nEditions after 1852 were amended, probably clandestinely and by the typographers rather than the authors, to make certain articles less offensive to Christian sensibilities. For example, for Cardinal Ximenes, the original \"Il était fanatique et cruel\" (\"He was fanatical and cruel\") was changed to read \"Il était sévère, mais juste\" (\"He was tough but fair\"). References to sales of religious indulgences were deleted entirely.\n\nThe neutrality of editions after 1842 is therefore open to question when the work touches on Christian themes.\n\n"}
{"id": "52873350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52873350", "title": "Driver's licenses in Trinidad and Tobago", "text": "Driver's licenses in Trinidad and Tobago\n\nIn Trinidad and Tobago, you could obtain a learner's permit at your 17th birthday. Licenses to drive are commonly referred to in Trinidad and Tobago as Driver's Permits. Driver's Permits are issued by the Licensing Authority, which is governed by the Ministry of Works and Transport. In order to legally operate any motor vehicle in Trinidad and Tobago, only when it is on public-owned-roads, the operator of the motor vehicle must be in possession of a valid Driver's Permit on their person and is legally endorsed for that \"class of vehicle\". Contravention to the aforementioned could warrant a fine of up to TT$1500 and imprisonment.\n\nThe Driver's Permit in Trinidad and Tobago features personal information about holder and it is widely accepted as a form of legal photo identification.\n\nIt features:\n\n\nDriver's Permits in Trinidad and Tobago \nfirst came as a book in the 1950s but then progressed to a laminated card then finally to a digital printed card with holograms and scanning technology.\n\nA potential applicant must first have attained the age of 17 years, then will visit their nearest Licensing Office. Applications for driver's permits shall be made to the Transport Officer on the approved form and shall be officially accepted by the applicant. The applicant would then be issued a learner's permit that is usually valid for (1) one year. The applicant would then also receive a date for the first exam that they would have to undergo, which is commonly called \"Driving Regulations\", which comprises excerpts from both the Highway Code and the Motor Vehicle and Road Traffic Act Chapter 48:50.\n\nOnce the applicant was successful in the written exam, the applicant would then receive a date for the practical exam. The practical exam consists of a series of driving maneuvers and a road test that must be completed thoroughly.\n\nOnce satisfying the aforementioned conditions, the Transport Officer would issue the applicant with a Driver's Permit.\n\nTransaction Code: A\n\nDriver's permits can be valid for five (5) - ten (10) years depending on which is requested by the applicant. For five (5) year permits, the cost is TT$500, and the cost for a ten (10) year permit is TT$1000. These two permits are only distributed to citizens who are under the age of sixty (60) years and are deemed medically fit by a licensed medical practitioner. For those sixty (60) years of age and over, their Driver's permits are issued free of charge. Applicants over sixty (60) years of age but less than sixty-five (65) years of age, three (3) year permits are issued. Finally, for those over sixty-five (65) years of age, two (2) year permits are issued. All applicants over 60 years of age require a medical endorsement from a licensed medical practitioner.\n\nTransaction Code: B\n\n\"(See Section Below on Endorsements/Vehicle Classes)\"\n\nIn order for an individual to operate any vehicle in Trinidad and Tobago they must be endorsed by the Licensing Authority to drive that particular class. With that being said most persons in Trinidad and Tobago are holders of \"Class 3 (\"Light Motor vehicles). In order for the aforementioned holder to drive any other classes the procedure is as follows.\n\nThe applicant would visit the nearest Licensing Authority office and submit an application for the endorsement. Provided that the applicant does not contravene the rules below, they would be given a learner's permit valid for a period of (1) year. The applicant would then go through the same process as the First Issue with the difference being the exams would now be centered around the class of vehicle that applicant is applying to operate.\n\nRules:\n\nIn order for the Holder of a \"Class 3 (\"Light Motor vehicles) to obtain a Class 4 (Heavy motor vehicles) or a Public Service Permit. He/ she must have attained the age of twenty-one years (21) and have held the Class 3 permit for at least one (1) year.\n\nIn order for a Class 4 to obtain a Class 5 (Extra Heavy Motor Vehicles) he/she must have held the Class 4 permit for at least one (1) year.\n\nIn order for a holder to obtain a Class 6 Omni-bus he/she must apply through the Public Transport Service Corporation.\n\nTransaction Code: D\n\nImmediately after noticing the permit's disappearance, the holder must go to the nearest Police station and make a report indicating the particulars of the incident. Then the Police would supply a receipt of the report which would then be taken to the Licensing Authority where they would reissue the holder a new permit at a small fee.\n\nTransaction Code: C\n\nMotor Vehicles in Trinidad and Tobago are classified under law as following:\n\n\nWhen the applicant is issued his/her driver's permit, the coloured background of their photo would be determined by the highest class of vehicle that they are legally allowed to drive. The background colours are as follows:\n\nIn Trinidad and Tobago a Public Service vehicle is defined as a vehicle that's intended purpose is to operate in a public capacity for hire or reward such as Omni Buses, Taxi and Maxi taxis.\n\nTo operate any one of the aforementioned, by law a Permit or License must be obtained:\n\nTo apply for a permit to operate an omnibus, the applicant must have driving experience of over 10 years and must be in possession of class 5 for a period of at least three of the aforementioned years. The applicant must also be able to produce a certificate of good character and a certificate of fitness attesting to good medical health. The applicant must then apply to the Public Transport Service Corporation (PTSC) for permission to do so. The applicant would then have to undergo a training course/exercise for a period that is determined by the Transport Officer. Once satisfying all the conditions that were requested in the training exercise and passing the exams, the applicant would be issued an omnibus permit. However, being the holder of an omnibus permit you are required by law to report for service without fail, in any state of emergency, time of crisis or anytime the Government of Trinidad and Tobago sees fit.\n\nTo operate a taxi in Trinidad and Tobago, the applicant must be over 21 years of age and have driving experience of over 3 years. The applicant must be in possession of a class 3 for a period of at least three years.The applicant must also be able to produce a certificate of good character and a certificate of fitness attesting to good medical health. The applicant must then visit their nearest Licensing Authority and apply for a Taxi-Badge (Similar process to First Issue). Upon successful completion of both written and practical examinations, the applicant would then be issued a taxi badge.\n\nTo become a School bus operator in Trinidad and Tobago, the applicant must be over 25 years of age and have driving experience of over 3 years. The applicant must be in possession of a class 4.The applicant must also be able to produce a certificate of good character and a certificate of fitness attesting to good medical health. The applicant must then register the school bus and ensure it is painted in bright yellow, with SCHOOL BUS OPERATOR and the identification number on both sides in Black. Contravention to the aforementioned would warrant a fine of up to TT$10,000.\n\nTo operate a maxi taxi in Trinidad and Tobago, the applicant must be in possession of a Taxi Badge (as mentioned above) and a class 4 permit. The applicant would then apply to their nearest Licensing Authority and apply for a maxi taxi operator's permit.\nA Driver's Permit Holder may be disqualified for a number of reasons including:\n\n\nThe demerit points system entails that certain traffic offences and traffic violations will also carry predefined demerit points, in addition to the other penalties i.e. Fixed Penalty Tickets and Imprisonment.\n\nThis system was designed to work closely connected with the Red Light Camera Enforcement and the Speed Camera Enforcement projects of 2017 where thirty-five red light cameras were installed in strategic locations and multiple speed cameras where those infractions usually occurs (i.e. Speeding & Breaking of Traffic Lights) . These systems are totally automated and send the fixed penalty ticket to the registered owner of the vehicle via postage.\n\nThe predefined demerit points allotted for each traffic offences and traffic violations are said to be on par with other international countries for similar types of offences. The demerit points system would be ranging from two (2) to maximum fourteen (14) points, which would remain on your record at the Licensing Authority for a period of three (3) years, then it would be expunged. The individual can check their records online at the official page of the Licensing Authority https://apps.mowt.gov.tt/\n\n\nWhen a driver meets the conditions for their driver's permit to be suspended they can file a Notice to Contest within 15 days of receiving the penalties. The driver would then have to appear before magistrate, the decision of the court would be final.\n\nIf the driver decides not to contest and accepts the disqualification, they would have to surrender their license to the nearest Licensing Authority. Failure to do so would result in a fine of five thousand dollars ($5000) and further disqualification of up to a year. If the driver decides to apply for a driver's permit while on suspension they would be subjected to a fine of ten thousand dollars ($10,000) dollars.\n\nAfter the period of disqualification ends, the driver, must reapply to the Licensing Authority for a driver's permit. Attend a driver's rehabilitation programme approved by the Licensing Authority, then start the process aforementioned in the Obtaining a Driver's Permit section on this page.\n\nOn 13 January 2017, the Licensing Authority unveiled its new drivers permit with the addition of new security features hologram technology. The permits now feature a scannable barcode that can be used to view the holder's driving details and records. This aims to alleviate the problem of counterfeit driving permits that are prevalent in Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nThe Authority also announced its proposal to integrate Permit scanners that Police officers can use to scan the permits and be able to view outstanding warrants or offences that the holder may have. This system will also be compatible with the points of merit system that was aforementioned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52447", "title": "European colonization of the Americas", "text": "European colonization of the Americas\n\nThe European colonization of the Americas describes the history of the settlement and establishment of control of the continents of the Americas by most of the naval powers of Western Europe. \nSystematic European colonization began in 1492, when a Spanish expedition headed by the Italian explorer Christopher Columbus sailed west to find a new trade route to the Far East but inadvertently landed in what came to be known to Europeans as the \"New World\". He ran aground on the northern part of Hispaniola on 5 December 1492, which the Taino people had inhabited since the 7th century; the site became the first permanent European settlement in the Americas. Western European conquest, large-scale exploration and colonization soon followed. Columbus's first two voyages (1492–93) reached the Bahamas and various Caribbean islands, including Hispaniola, Puerto Rico, and Cuba. In 1497, Italian explorer John Cabot, on behalf of England, landed on the North American coast, and a year later, Columbus's third voyage reached the South American coast. As the sponsor of Christopher Columbus's voyages, Spain was the first European power to settle and colonize the largest areas, from North America and the Caribbean to the southern tip of South America.\n\nThe Spaniards began building up their American empire in the Caribbean, using islands such as Cuba, Puerto Rico, and Hispaniola as bases. The North and South American mainland fell to the conquistadors, with an estimated 8 million deaths of indigenous populations. Florida fell to Juan Ponce de León after 1513. From 1519 to 1521, Hernán Cortés waged a campaign against the Aztec Empire, ruled by Moctezuma II. The Aztec capital, Tenochtitlan, became Mexico City, the chief city of what the Spanish were now calling \"New Spain\". More than 240,000 Aztecs died during the siege of Tenochtitlan. Of these, 100,000 died in combat. Later, the areas that are today California, Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, Texas, Missouri, Louisiana, and Alabama were taken over by other conquistadors, such as Hernando de Soto, Francisco Vázquez de Coronado, and Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca. Farther to the south, Francisco Pizarro conquered the Inca Empire during the 1530s. The de Soto expedition was the first major encounter of Europeans with North American Indians in the eastern half of the United States. The expedition journeyed from Florida through present-day Georgia and the Carolinas, then west across the Mississippi and into Texas. De Soto fought his biggest battle at the walled town of Mabila in present-day Alabama on October 18, 1540. Spanish losses were 22 killed and 148 wounded. The Spaniards claimed that 2,500 Indians died. If true, Mabila was the bloodiest battle ever fought between red men and white in the present-day United States.\n\nOther powers such as France also founded colonies in the Americas: in eastern North America, a number of Caribbean islands and small coastal parts of South America. Portugal colonized Brazil, tried colonizing the eastern coasts of present-day Canada and settled for extended periods northwest (on the east bank) of the River Plate. The Age of Exploration was the beginning of territorial expansion for several European countries. Europe had been preoccupied with internal wars and was slowly recovering from the loss of population caused by the Black Death; thus the rapid rate at which it grew in wealth and power was unforeseeable in the early 15th century.\n\nEventually, most of the Western Hemisphere came under the control of Western European governments, leading to changes to its landscape, population, and plant and animal life. In the 19th century over 50 million people left Western Europe for the Americas. The post-1492 era is known as the period of the Columbian Exchange, a dramatically widespread exchange of animals, plants, culture, human populations (including slaves), ideas, and communicable disease between the American and Afro-Eurasian hemispheres following Columbus's voyages to the Americas.\n\nNorse journeys to Greenland and Canada are supported by historical and archaeological evidence. A Norse colony in Greenland was established in the late 10th century, and lasted until the mid 15th century, with court and parliament assemblies (\"þing\") taking place at Brattahlíð and a bishop located at Garðar. The remains of a Norse settlement at L'Anse aux Meadows in Newfoundland, Canada, were discovered in 1960 and were dated to around the year 1000 (carbon dating estimate 990–1050 CE). L'Anse aux Meadows is the only site widely accepted as evidence of pre-Columbian trans-oceanic contact. It was named a World Heritage site by UNESCO in 1978. It is also notable for its possible connection with the attempted colony of Vinland, established by Leif Erikson around the same period or, more broadly, with the West Norse colonization of the Americas.\n\nEarly explorations and conquests were made by the Spanish and the Portuguese immediately following their own final reconquest of Iberia in 1492. In the 1494 Treaty of Tordesillas, ratified by the Pope, these two kingdoms divided the entire non-European world into two areas of exploration and colonization, with a north to south boundary that cut through the Atlantic Ocean and the eastern part of present-day Brazil. Based on this treaty and on early claims by Spanish explorer Vasco Núñez de Balboa, discoverer of the Pacific Ocean in 1513, the Spanish conquered large territories in North, Central and South America.\n\nSpanish conquistador Hernán Cortés took over the Aztec Kingdom and Francisco Pizarro conquered the Inca Empire. As a result, by the mid-16th century, the Spanish Crown had gained control of much of western South America, and southern North America, in addition to its earlier Caribbean territories. Over this same timeframe, Portugal claimed lands in North America (Canada) and colonized much of eastern South America, naming it Santa Cruz and Brazil.\n\nOther European nations soon disputed the terms of the Treaty of Tordesillas. England and France attempted to plant colonies in the Americas in the 16th century, but these failed. England and France succeeded in establishing permanent colonies in the following century, along with the Dutch Republic. Some of these were on Caribbean islands, which had often already been conquered by the Spanish or depopulated by disease, while others were in eastern North America, which had not been colonized by Spain north of Florida.\n\nEarly European possessions in North America included Spanish Florida, Spanish New Mexico, the English colonies of Virginia (with its North Atlantic offshoot, Bermuda) and New England, the French colonies of Acadia and Canada, the Swedish colony of New Sweden, and the Dutch New Netherland. In the 18th century, Denmark–Norway revived its former colonies in Greenland, while the Russian Empire gained a foothold in Alaska. Denmark-Norway would later make several claims in the Caribbean, starting in the 1600s.\n\nAs more nations gained an interest in the colonization of the Americas, competition for territory became increasingly fierce. Colonists often faced the threat of attacks from neighboring colonies, as well as from indigenous tribes and pirates.\n\nThe first phase of well-financed European activity in the Americas began with the Atlantic Ocean crossings of Christopher Columbus (1492–1504), sponsored by Spain, whose original attempt was to find a new route to India and China, known as \"the Indies\". He was followed by other explorers such as John Cabot, who was sponsored by England and reached Newfoundland. Pedro Álvares Cabral reached Brazil and claimed it for Portugal.\n\nAmerigo Vespucci, working for Portugal in voyages from 1497 to 1513, established that Columbus had reached a new set of continents. Cartographers still use a Latinized version of his first name, \"America\", for the two continents. Other explorers included Giovanni da Verrazzano, sponsored by France in 1524; the Portuguese João Vaz Corte-Real in Newfoundland; João Fernandes Lavrador, Gaspar and Miguel Corte-Real and João Álvares Fagundes, in Newfoundland, Greenland, Labrador, and Nova Scotia (from 1498 to 1502, and in 1520); Jacques Cartier (1491–1557), Henry Hudson (1560s–1611), and Samuel de Champlain (1567–1635), who explored the region of Canada he reestablished as New France.\n\nIn 1513, Vasco Núñez de Balboa crossed the Isthmus of Panama and led the first European expedition to see the Pacific Ocean from the west coast of the New World. In an action with enduring historical import, Balboa claimed the Pacific Ocean and all the lands adjoining it for the Spanish Crown. It was 1517 before another expedition, from Cuba, visited Central America, landing on the coast of Yucatán in search of slaves.\nThese explorations were followed, notably in the case of Spain, by a phase of conquest: The Spaniards, having just finished the \"Reconquista\" of Spain from Muslim rule, were the first to colonize the Americas, applying the same model of governing their European holdings to their territories of the New World.\n\nTen years after Columbus's discovery, the administration of Hispaniola was given to Nicolás de Ovando of the Order of Alcántara, founded during the \"Reconquista\". As in the Iberian Peninsula, the inhabitants of Hispaniola were given new landmasters, while religious orders handled the local administration. Progressively the \"encomienda\" system, which granted tribute (access to indigenous labor and taxation) to European settlers, was set in place.\n\nA relatively common misconception is that a small number of \"conquistadores\" conquered vast territories, aided only by disease epidemics and their powerful caballeros. In fact, recent archaeological excavations have suggested a vast Spanish-Indian alliance numbering in the hundreds of thousands. Hernán Cortés eventually conquered Mexico with the help of Tlaxcala in 1519–1521, while the conquest of the Incas was carried out by some 40,000 Incan renegades led by Francisco Pizarro in between 1532 and 1535.\n\nOver the 1st century and a half after Columbus's voyages, the native population of the Americas plummeted by an estimated 80% (from around 50 million in 1492 to eight million in 1650), mostly by outbreaks of Old World diseases.\n\nIn 1532, Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor sent a vice-king to Mexico, Antonio de Mendoza, in order to prevent Cortes' independentist drives, who definitively returned to Spain in 1540. Two years later, Charles V signed the New Laws (which replaced the Laws of Burgos of 1512) prohibiting slavery and the \"repartimientos\", but also claiming as his own all the American lands and all of the indigenous people as his own subjects.\nWhen Pope Alexander VI issued the \"Inter caetera\" bull in May 1493 granting the new lands to the Kingdom of Spain, he requested in exchange an evangelization of the people. Thus, during Columbus's second voyage, Benedictine friars accompanied him, along with twelve other priests. As slavery was prohibited between Christians, and could only be imposed in non-Christian prisoners of war or on men already sold as slaves, the debate on Christianization was particularly acute during the 16th century. In 1537, the papal bull \"Sublimis Deus\" definitively recognized that Native Americans possessed souls, thus prohibiting their enslavement, without putting an end to the debate. Some claimed that a native who had rebelled and then been captured could be enslaved nonetheless.\n\nLater, the Valladolid debate between the Dominican priest Bartolomé de Las Casas and another Dominican philosopher Juan Ginés de Sepúlveda was held, with the former arguing that Native Americans were beings doted with souls, as all other human beings, while the latter argued to the contrary and justified their enslavement.\n\nThe process of Christianization was at first violent: when the first Franciscans arrived in Mexico in 1524, they burned the places dedicated to pagan cult, alienating much of the local population. In the 1530s, they began to adapt Christian practices to local customs, including the building of new churches on the sites of ancient places of worship, leading to a mix of Old World Christianity with local religions. The Spanish Roman Catholic Church, needing the natives' labor and cooperation, evangelized in Quechua, Nahuatl, Guaraní and other Native American languages, contributing to the expansion of these indigenous languages and equipping some of them with writing systems. One of the first primitive schools for Native Americans was founded by Fray Pedro de Gante in 1523.\n\nTo reward their troops, the \"Conquistadores\" often allotted Indian towns to their troops and officers. Black African slaves were introduced to substitute for Native American labor in some locations—including the West Indies, where the indigenous population was nearing extinction on many islands.\n\nDuring this time, the Portuguese gradually switched from an initial plan of establishing trading posts to extensive colonization of what is now Brazil. They imported millions of slaves to run their plantations. The Portuguese and Spanish royal governments expected to rule these settlements and collect at least 20% of all treasure found (the \"quinto real\" collected by the \"Casa de Contratación\"), in addition to collecting all the taxes they could. By the late 16th century American silver accounted for one-fifth of Spain's total budget. In the 16th century perhaps 240,000 Europeans entered American ports.\n\nInspired by the Spanish riches from colonies founded upon the conquest of the Aztecs, Incas, and other large Native American populations in the 16th century, the first Englishmen to settle permanently in America hoped for some of the same rich discoveries when they established their first permanent settlement in Jamestown, Virginia in 1607. They were sponsored by common stock companies such as the chartered Virginia Company financed by wealthy Englishmen who exaggerated the economic potential of this new land. The main purpose of this colony was the hope of finding gold.\n\nIt took strong leaders, like John Smith, to convince the colonists of Jamestown that searching for gold was not taking care of their immediate needs for food and shelter and the biblical principle that \"he who will not work shall not eat\" (see 2 Thessalonians 3). The lack of food security leading to extremely high mortality rate was quite distressing and cause for despair among the colonists. To support the Colony, numerous supply missions were organized. Tobacco later became a cash crop, with the work of John Rolfe and others, for export and the sustaining economic driver of Virginia and the neighboring colony of Maryland.\n\nFrom the beginning of Virginia's settlements in 1587 until the 1680s, the main source of labor and a large portion of the immigrants were indentured servants looking for new life in the overseas colonies. During the 17th century, indentured servants constituted three-quarters of all European immigrants to the Chesapeake region. Most of the indentured servants were teenagers from England with poor economic prospects at home. Their fathers signed the papers that gave them free passage to America and an unpaid job until they became of age. They were given food, clothing, housing and taught farming or household skills. American landowners were in need of laborers and were willing to pay for a laborer’s passage to America if they served them for several years. By selling passage for five to seven years worth of work they could then start out on their own in America. Many of the migrants from England died in the first few years.\n\nEconomic advantage also prompted the Darien Scheme, an ill-fated venture by the Kingdom of Scotland to settle the Isthmus of Panama in the late 1690s. The Darien Scheme aimed to control trade through that part of the world and thereby promote Scotland into a world trading power. However, it was doomed by poor planning, short provisions, weak leadership, lack of demand for trade goods, and devastating disease. The failure of the Darien Scheme was one of the factors that led the Kingdom of Scotland into the Act of Union 1707 with the Kingdom of England creating the united Kingdom of Great Britain and giving Scotland commercial access to English, now British, colonies.\n\nIn the French colonial regions, the focus of economy was on sugar plantations in Caribbean. In Canada the fur trade with the natives was important. About 16,000 French men and women became colonizers. The great majority became subsistence farmers along the St. Lawrence River. With a favorable disease environment and plenty of land and food, their numbers grew exponentially to 65,000 by 1760. Their colony was taken over by Britain in 1760, but social, religious, legal, cultural and economic changes were few in a society that clung tightly to its recently formed traditions.\n\nRoman Catholics were the first major religious group to immigrate to the New World, as settlers in the colonies of Portugal and Spain (and later, France) belonged to that faith. English and Dutch colonies, on the other hand, tended to be more religiously diverse. Settlers to these colonies included Anglicans, Dutch Calvinists, English Puritans and other nonconformists, English Catholics, Scottish Presbyterians, French Huguenots, German and Swedish Lutherans, as well as Jews, Quakers, Mennonites, Amish, and Moravians.\n\nMany groups of colonists went to the Americas searching for the right to practice their religion without persecution. The Protestant Reformation of the 16th century broke the unity of Western Christendom and led to the formation of numerous new religious sects, which often faced persecution by governmental authorities. In England, many people came to question the organization of the Church of England by the end of the 16th century. One of the primary manifestations of this was the Puritan movement, which sought to \"purify\" the existing Church of England of its offensive residual Catholic rites.\n\nWaves of repression led to the migration of about 20,000 Puritans to New England between 1629 and 1642, where they founded multiple colonies. Later in the century, the new Pennsylvania colony was given to William Penn in settlement of a debt the king owed his father. Its government was set up by William Penn in about 1682 to become primarily a refuge for persecuted English Quakers; but others were welcomed. Baptists, German and Swiss Protestants and Anabaptists also flocked to Pennsylvania. The lure of cheap land, religious freedom and the right to improve themselves with their own hand was very attractive.\n\nSlavery was a common practice in the Americas prior to the arrival of Europeans, as different American Indian groups captured and held other tribes' members as slaves. Many of these captives were forced to undergo human sacrifice in Amerindian civilizations such as the Aztecs. In response to some enslavement of natives in the Caribbean during the early years, the Spanish Crown passed a series of laws prohibiting slavery as early as 1512. A new stricter set of laws was passed in 1542, called the \"New Laws of the Indies for the Good Treatment and Preservation of Indians\", or simply New Laws. These were created to prevent the exploitation of the indigenous peoples by the \"encomenderos\" or landowners, by strictly limiting their power and dominion. This helped curb Indian slavery considerably, though not completely. Later, with the arrival of other European colonial powers in the New World, the enslavement of native populations increased, as these empires lacked legislation against slavery until decades later. The population of indigenous peoples declined (mostly from European diseases, but also from forced exploitation and atrocities). Later, native workers were replaced by Africans imported through a large commercial slave trade.\n\nBy the 18th century, the overwhelming number of black slaves was such that Amerindian slavery was less commonly used. Africans, who were taken aboard slave ships to the Americas, were primarily obtained from their African homelands by coastal tribes who captured and sold them. Europeans traded for slaves with the slave capturers of the local native African tribes in exchange for rum, guns, gunpowder, and other manufactures.\n\nThe total slave trade to islands in the Caribbean, Brazil, Mexico and to the United States is estimated to have involved 12 million Africans. The vast majority of these slaves went to sugar colonies in the Caribbean and to Brazil, where life expectancy was short and the numbers had to be continually replenished. At most about 600,000 African slaves were imported into the United States, or 5% of the 12 million slaves brought across from Africa. Life expectancy was much higher in the United States (because of better food, less disease, lighter work loads, and better medical care) so the numbers grew rapidly by excesses of births over deaths, reaching 4 million by the 1860 Census. Slaves were a valuable commodity both for work and for sale in slave markets and so the policy of actively encouraging or forcing slaves to breed developed, especially after the ending of the Atlantic slave trade. From 1770 until 1860, the rate of growth of North American slaves was much greater than for the population of any nation in Europe, and was nearly twice as rapid as that of England.\n\nSlaves imported to the Thirteen colonies/United States by time period:\n\nThe European lifestyle included a long history of sharing close quarters with domesticated animals such as cows, pigs, sheep, goats, horses, dogs and various domesticated fowl, from which many diseases originally stemmed. Thus, in contrast to the indigenous people, Europeans had developed a richer endowment of antibodies. The large-scale contact with Europeans after 1492 introduced Eurasian germs to the indigenous people of the Americas.\n\nEpidemics of smallpox (1518, 1521, 1525, 1558, 1589), typhus (1546), influenza (1558), diphtheria (1614) and measles (1618) swept the Americas subsequent to European contact, killing between 10 million and 100 million people, up to 95% of the indigenous population of the Americas. The cultural and political instability attending these losses appears to have been of substantial aid in the efforts of various colonists in New England and Massachusetts to acquire control over the great wealth in land and resources of which indigenous societies had customarily made use.\n\nSuch diseases yielded human mortality of an unquestionably enormous gravity and scale – and this has profoundly confused efforts to determine its full extent with any true precision. Estimates of the pre-Columbian population of the Americas vary tremendously.\n\nOthers have argued that significant variations in population size over pre-Columbian history are reason to view higher-end estimates with caution. Such estimates may reflect historical population maxima, while indigenous populations may have been at a level somewhat below these maxima or in a moment of decline in the period just prior to contact with Europeans. Indigenous populations hit their ultimate lows in most areas of the Americas in the early 20th century; in a number of cases, growth has returned.\n\nGeographic differences between the colonies played a large determinant in the types of political and economic systems that later developed. In their paper on institutions and long-run growth, economists Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson, and James A. Robinson argue that certain natural endowments gave rise to distinct colonial policies promoting either smallholder or coerced labor production. Densely settled populations, for example, were more easily exploitable and profitable as slave labor. In these regions, landowning elites were economically incentivized to develop forced labor arrangements such as the Peru mit'a system or Argentinian latifundias without regard for democratic norms. French and British colonial leaders, conversely, were incentivized to develop capitalist markets, property rights, and democratic institutions in response to natural environments that supported smallholder production over forced labor.\n\nJames Mahoney, a professor at Northwestern University, proposes that colonial policy choices made at critical junctures regarding land ownership in coffee-rich Central America fostered enduring path dependent institutions. Coffee economies in Guatemala and El Salvador, for example, were centralized around large plantations that operated under coercive labor systems. By the 19th century, their political structures were largely authoritarian and militarized. In Colombia and Costa Rica, conversely, liberal reforms were enacted at critical junctures to expand commercial agriculture, and they ultimately raised the bargaining power of the middle class. Both nations eventually developed more democratic and egalitarian institutions than their highly concentrated landowning counterparts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 2007, the Smithsonian Institution National Museum of American History and the Virginia Historical Society (VHS) co-organized a traveling exhibition to recount the strategic alliances and violent conflict between European empires (English, Spanish, French) and the Native people living in North America. The exhibition was presented in three languages and with multiple perspectives. Artifacts on display included rare surviving Native and European artifacts, maps, documents, and ceremonial objects from museums and royal collections on both sides of the Atlantic. The exhibition opened in Richmond, Virginia on March 17, 2007, and closed at the Smithsonian International Gallery on October 31, 2009.\n\nThe related online exhibition explores the international origins of the societies of Canada and the United States and commemorates the 400th anniversary of three lasting settlements in Jamestown (1607), Québec (1608), and Santa Fe (1609). The site is accessible in three languages.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24490545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24490545", "title": "Exploration of North America", "text": "Exploration of North America\n\nThe exploration of North America by non-indigenous people was a continuing effort to map and explore the continent of North America. It spanned centuries, and consisted of efforts by numerous people and expeditions from various foreign countries to map the continent. The European colonization of the Americas followed.\n\nAccording to the Sagas of Icelanders, Norse sailors (often called Vikings) from Iceland first settled Greenland in the 980s. Erik the Red explored and settled southwestern Greenland, which he named to entice potential Icelandic settlers, eventually establishing the Eastern and Western Settlements, which were abandoned around 1350.\n\nL'Anse aux Meadows, an archaeological site on the northernmost tip of Newfoundland, and a second site in southwestern Newfoundland, are the only known sites of a Norse village in North America outside of Greenland. These sites are notable for their possible connections with the attempted colony of Vinland established by Leif Erikson in 1003.\n\nThe Viking voyages did not become common knowledge in the Old World, and Europeans remained unaware of the existence of the Americas as a whole, until the first decades following the year 1492. Many expeditions were launched from European nations in search of a Northwest Passage to East Asia (or \"the Indies\" as the region was called) in order to establish a shorter trade route to China than the Silk Road, a trade route which had become desperately needed and yet exacerbated by the Fall of Constantinople. Also, the Castilian crown needed an alternative to the Portuguese controlled eastern maritime trade route around Africa to India and East Asia.\nOn August 3, 1492, Christopher Columbus set sail from the Port of Palos de la Frontera in the Province of Huelva, from the newly \"los Reyes Católicos\" coordinated Kingdoms of Castile and Aragon, in present-day Spain, financed by Queen Isabella I of Castille. Columbus's Letter on the First Voyage of his discovery of the Bahamas, Cuba, and Hispaniola spread the news across Europe quickly. Columbus rediscovered and explored much of the Lesser Antilles in his second voyage then discovered both Trinidad and Tobago on his third voyage whilst skirting the northern South American coast. His fourth voyage was spent scanning the Central American coast. The Voyages of Christopher Columbus opened the New World.\n\nItalian navigator and explorer Giovanni Caboto (known in English as John Cabot) is credited with the discovery of continental North America on June 24, 1497, under the commission of Henry VII of England. Though the exact location of his discovery remains disputed, the Canadian and United Kingdom governments' official position is that he landed on the island of Newfoundland. The English presence through Giovanni Caboto was signaled in Juan de la Cosa's map of 1500.\n\nIn 1499 João Fernandes Lavrador was licensed by the King of Manuel I of Portugal and together with Pêro de Barcelos they reached Greenland and sighted Labrador for the first time since Leif Erikson, which was granted and named after Lavrador. After returning he possibly went to Bristol to sail in the name of England. Nearly at the same time, between 1499 and 1502 the brothers Gaspar and Miguel Corte Real explored and named the coasts of Greenland, Labrador and also Newfoundland, naming \"Terra Verde\" the explored North American coasts. Both explorations were signaled in 1502 Cantino planisphere.\n\nIt was soon understood that Columbus had not reached Asia, but rather found what was to Europeans a New World, which in 1507 was named \"America\", probably after Amerigo Vespucci, on the Waldseemüller map.\n\nIn 1500, Pedro Álvares Cabral was sent by Portugal to explore South America. He is considered to be the discoverer of Brazil.\n\nAragon King Ferdinand II sent Juan Ponce de León from the fledgling colony on Hispaniola to verify rumors of undiscovered land to the northwest. On April 2, 1513, Ponce de León disembarked on the northeast coast of what he named Florida for the crown. The exact location is disputed, but historians have offered the possibilities of St. Augustine, Ponce de León Inlet, and Melbourne Beach. He encountered the powerful Gulf Stream and found a passage through the Florida Keys to land on the southwestern Gulf Coast of Florida on the Gulf of Mexico. Again, the exact location is disputed. While it is true that Columbus visited Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands in 1493, Ponce de Leon was the first known European to reach the present-day United States mainland.\n\nOn September 25, 1513, Spanish conquistador Vasco Núñez de Balboa was the first European to see the Pacific Ocean once he crossed the Isthmus of Panama. He claimed all the territory touching it for the Crown, later to affect colonization of Las Californias.\n\nAround 1519-1521, Portuguese explorer João Álvares Fagundes explored the coasts of Newfoundland, Labrador and Nova Scotia, with a mission to create colonies.\n\nIn 1524, Italian explorer Giovanni da Verrazzano sailed for King Francis I of France and is known as the first European since the Norse to explore the Atlantic coast of North America. Arriving near the Cape Fear River delta, he explored the coastlines of present-day states of South Carolina and North Carolina, entering the Pamlico Sound, and bypassing entrances to the Chesapeake Bay. Believing the New York Harbor to be a lake, he sailed past Long Island, exploring Narragansett Bay and Newfoundland.\n\nIn 1524-1525, Portuguese explorer Estevão Gomes, on behalf of Charles I of Spain, explored present-day Nova Scotia sailing South along the Maine coast. Gomes entered New York Harbor and saw the Hudson River(which he named the \"San Antonio River\"). Because of his expedition, the 1529 Diogo Ribeiro world map outlines the East coast of North America almost perfectly.\n\nIn 1534, Jacques Cartier planted a cross in the Gaspé Peninsula, on the Gulf Gulf of Saint Lawrence and claimed the land in the name of Francis I. In 1535 Cartier explored the St. Lawrence river and also claimed the region for France.\nAfter two failed attempts to reach East Asia by circumnavigating Siberia, Henry Hudson sailed west in 1609 under the Dutch East India Company. He, too, passed Cape Cod, Chesapeake Bay and the Delaware Bay, instead sailing up the Hudson River on September 11, 1609 in search of a fabled connection to the Pacific via what was actually the Great Lakes. In Hudson's fourth and final voyage, he discovered, mapped, and explored the Hudson Strait, Hudson Bay and James Bay.\n\nOther major sea-based explorers were Captain James Cook, George Vancouver, and Charles Wilkes.\n\nThere were numerous Spanish explorers and conquistadors who explored the Southwest of North America (including present-day west and central United States) and cross the continent (east to west) in its southern regions, mainly from the second quarter to the middle of the 16th century, such as Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca and Francisco Vásquez de Coronado, but also the North American Southeast and south-central regions, s Soto]].\n\nIn 1608 Samuel de Champlain founded what is now Quebec City, which would become the first permanent settlement and the capital of New France. He took personal administration over the city and its affairs, and sent out expeditions to explore the interior. Champlain himself discovered Lake Champlain in 1609. By 1615, he had travelled by canoe up the Ottawa River through Lake Nipissing and Georgian Bay to the centre of Huron country near Lake Simcoe. During these voyages, Champlain aided the Wendat (aka 'Hurons') in their battles against the Iroquois Confederacy. As a result, the Iroquois would become enemies of the French and be involved in multiple conflicts.\n\nFrom 1679 to 1682 René-Robert Cavelier, Sieur de La Salle explored the Great Lakes region of the United States and Canada, and the entire course of Mississippi River to the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nFrom 1697 to 1702 Eusebio Kino explored the Sonoran Desert and on his journey to the Colorado River Delta discovered an overland route to Baja California that was then commonly believed to be an island. In 1683 Kino lead the first European overland crossing of Baja California.\n\nEuropean exploration of western Canada was largely motivated by the fur trade and the search for the elusive Northwest Passage. Hudson's Bay Company explorer Henry Kelsey has the distinction of being the first European to see the northern Great Plains in 1690.\n\nAnthony Henday was the first to have seen the Rocky Mountains, in 1754, but curiously did not mention it in his journals. From his westernmost geographic position (roughly near the town of Olds, Alberta, halfway between Calgary and Red Deer, Alberta) the Rockies should have been quite conspicuous, but he was likely trying to disguise the disappointing fact that an unknown range of seemingly impassible mountains now stood between the HBC and the Pacific. Samuel Hearne found the Coppermine River in 1769-71 in his failed search for copper ore deposits. Burned by these shortfalls, the HBC largely quit exploration.\n\nThe North West Company, on the other hand, used a business model that required constant expansion into untapped areas. Under the auspices of the NWC, Alexander Mackenzie discovered the Mackenzie River in 1789 and was the first European to reach the North-American Pacific overland, via the Bella Coola River, in 1793. Simon Fraser reached the Pacific in 1808 via the Fraser River.\n\nDavid Thompson, widely regarded as the greatest land geographer that ever lived, traveled over 90,000 km during his lifetime. In 1797, Thompson was sent south by his employers to survey part of the Canada-U.S. boundary along the water routes from Lake Superior to Lake of the Woods to satisfy unresolved questions of territory arising from the Jay Treaty between Great Britain and the United States. By 1798 Thompson had completed a survey of from Grand Portage, through Lake Winnipeg, to the headwaters of the Assiniboine and Mississippi Rivers, as well as two sides of Lake Superior. In 1798, the company sent him to Red Deer Lake (in present-day Alberta) to establish a trading post. The English translation of Lac La Biche-Red Deer Lake-first appeared on the Mackenzie map of 1793. Thompson spent the next few seasons trading based in Fort George (now in Alberta), and during this time led several expeditions into the Rocky Mountains. In 1811/1812 he followed the Columbia River to the Pacific, and in 1814 used his notes and measurements to draft the first European-style map of western Canada, covering 3.9 million square kilometres.\n\nLewis and Clark were the first Americans to venture into the newly acquired territory of the Louisiana Purchase, at the order of President Thomas Jefferson. They discovered many new geographical features, Indian tribes, and animal and plant species. John Colter was a member of the expedition who subsequently became a guide for others in the 'Old West,' and did some explorations of his own.\n\nJohn C. Frémont led many important explorations in the Great Plains, Great Basin, Oregon territory, and Mexican Alta California.\n\nJoseph Reddeford Walker was one of the most prominent of the explorers, and charted many new paths through the West, which often were then utilized by emigrants crossing to settle in Western towns and communities. In 1833, his exploring party discovered a route along the Humboldt River across present-day Nevada, ascending the Sierra Nevada following the Carson River and descending via Stanislaus River drainages to Monterey. His return route across the southern Sierra was via Walker Pass, named after Walker by John Charles Fremont. The approach of the Sierra via the Carson River route later became known as the California Trail, the primary route for the emigrants to the gold fields during the California gold rush.\n\nAs the American population of the West increased, the US government launched ongoing official explorations mainly through the US Army Corps of Topographical Engineers. One of the main officers and explorers in this unit was George Wheeler. In 1872, the US Congress authorized an ambitious plan to map the portion of the United States west of the 100th meridian at a scale of 8 miles to the inch. This plan necessitated what became known as the Wheeler Survey, along with the Clarence King and John Wesley Powell Surveys, and expeditions by Ferdinand Vandeveer Hayden. In 1879, all such efforts were reorganized as the United States Geological Survey.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28913203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28913203", "title": "GIS Live DVD", "text": "GIS Live DVD\n\nGIS Live DVD is a type of the thematic Live CD containing GIS/RS applications and related tutorials, and sample data sets. The general sense of a \"GIS Live DVD\" is to demonstrate the power of FLOSS GIS and encourage users to start on FLOSS GIS. However, a disc can be used for GIS data processing and training, too. A disc usually includes some selected Linux-based or Wine (software)-enabled Windows applications for GIS and Remote Sensing use. Using this disc the end users can execute GIS functions to get experience in free and open source software solutions or solve some simple business operations. The set-up and the operating behaviour of the applications can also be studied prior to building real FLOSS GIS-based systems. Recently a LiveDVD image is stored and booted from USB (Live USB).\n\nThere can be multiple use cases:\n\nThe creation is usually based on an existing Live CD. Some of the GIS and Remote sensing applications are already included in the basic Linux distribution. Some other packages has got \"ready to install\" versions while some others need to be translated from the source code. After having got all applications and related contents (e.g. documentations, sample data) installed the image of the Live DVD is create by the basic distribution provided tools.\n\nThe CASCADOSS research project has identified the following risks of disc creation\n\nThe following diagram presents a general function–means tree of the GIS LiveDVDs:\n\nPrimary use is professional archaeological work. Distributor: Arc-Team Italy. Basic Operating system: Debian, 2010, Software included: AutoQ3D, OpenJUMP GIS, XvidCap, QCAD, SAGA GIS, ParaView, PostgreSQL, PostGIS, JSVR, WhiteDune, Pmapper, GRASS\n\nPrimary uses are evaluation and training. Distributor: Compet-Terra Bt. Hungary as a member of the CASCADOSS project. Basic distribution: Fedora 11. GIS software included: GRASS GIS, gvSIG, ivics, ISIS Modelling Software, JUMP GIS, Kosmo, QGIS, SAGA, Ilwis, Spatialite, GeoNetwork opensource, MapServer, GeoServer, Openlayers, R, Postgresql, postgis, Data included: sample data from Belgium, Poland, Bohemia and sample data of the applications.\n\nPrimary use is demonstration. Distributor: Software in the Public Interest, Inc., United States of America. Basic distribution: Debian, 2007, GIS Software Included: QGIS 0.8.0-5, earth3d 1.0.5-1, mapnik 0.4.0-1, Grass 6.2.1-3, gpsbabel 1.3.3-2, mapserver 4.10.2-1, gpsdrive 2.09-2.2, kflog 2.1.1-3.1, postgis 1.2.1-2\n\nPrimary use is evaluation and demonstration. Distributor: Esri, Inc., United States of America. Basic distribution: Debian Squeeze, GIS Software Included: Esri Geoportal Server 1.2.5\n\nPrimary uses are demonstration, education and installation. Distributor: The Open Source Geospatial Foundation, Basic distribution: Ubuntu Hardy, 2009, Software included: GDAL/OGR, mapserver, GRASS, postgis, pgadmin, GDAL-GRASS plugin, PROJ.4, geoserver, uDig, gvSIG, R-spatial, GeoNetwork opensource\n\nPrimary use is education. FOSS4G 2008 \"Practical Introduction to GRASS and related software for beginners\" Workshop Live DVD. Creator: M. Ciolli, C. Tattoni, P. Zatelli, Dipartimento di Ingegneria Civile e Ambientale, Facoltà di Ingegneria, Università di Trento, Italy. Basic operating system: Kubuntu 8.04. Software: GRASS GIS 6.2.3 and GRASS GIS 6.4 (snapshot_2008_7_12), R 2.7.0 with GRASS support, QGIS 0.10 with GRASS plugin, PostgreSQL 8.3.8, PostGIS 1.3.3, pgAdminIII 1.8.2, pgagent 1.8.2, GRASS tutorial and workshop slides.\n\nPrimary use is education. Creator: Jan Růžička, František Klímek, Institute of Geoinformatics, Faculty of Mining and Geology, Czech Republic. Basic distribution: Knoppix, 2006, GIS Software. included: GRASS, Thuban, GpsDrive, JUMP GIS, MapLab, MapServer, QGIS, PostGIS\n\nPrimary use is demonstration. Distributor: Sourcepole AG, Switzerland. GIS Basic distribution: Knoppix Software included: GRASS 6.2, UMN MapServer 4.4.1, MapLab 2.0.1, PostgreSQL 8.1.4.2, TerraView 2.0, MapDesk, MySQL 5.0.21, JUMP GIS 1.1.2, Interlis, QGIS 0.8, Thuban 1.0.0, GSdrive, GPSMan\n\nPrimary use is demonstration. Distributor: GDF Hannover bR, Germany, Basic distribution: 2006, KNOPPIX. GIS Software included: GRASS 6.2, QGIS 0.8 CVS, MySQL, PostgreSQL\n\nPrimary use is demonstration. Distributor: Omniverdi. Italy (that is a group of programmers) Basic distribution: 2008, Gentoo Software included: GRASS 6.3.0, QGIS 0.11.0, PostgreSQL 8.3.1, PostGIS 1.3.1, GDAL 1.5.0, PROJ.4 4.5.0, PgAdmin 1.6.3 Data included: QGIS Dataset Alaska, Spearfish, North Carolina GRASS dataset\n\nPrimary use are demonstration and installation. Distributor: The live DVD project of the Open Source Geospatial Foundation, Basic distribution: 2012, Xubuntu Software included: OpenLayers, Geomajas, Mapbender, MapFish, GeoMoose, Sahana Eden, Ushahidi, PostGIS, SpatiaLite, Rasdaman, pgRouting,\nQGIS desktop and server, GRASS GIS, gvSIG, uDig, Kosmo, OpenJUMP GIS, SAGA GIS, OSSIM, Geopublisher, AtlasStyler, osgEarth, GpsDrive, Marble, OpenCPN, OpenStreetMap, Prune, Viking, zyGrib, GeoKettle, GDAL/OGR, GMT, Mapnik, MapTiler, OTB, R Spatial Task View, GeoServer, MapServer, deegree, GeoNetwork, MapProxy, 52°North WSS,52°North WPS, 52°North SOS, TinyOWS, ZOO Project, GeoTools, MetaCRS, libLAS. Data included: Natural Earth, OSGeo North Carolina, OpenStreetMap. Windows and Apple Installers for some of the above applications. A video of the OSGeo-Live is available too.\n\nPrimary use is education. Creator: M. Ciolli, C. Tattoni, A. Vitti, P. Zatelli, Dipartimento di Ingegneria Civile e Ambientale, Facoltà di Ingegneria, Università di Trento, Italy. Basic operating system: Kubuntu 9.04 2009 GRASS, GIS 6.4RC4, PostgreSQL 8.3.7, pgAdminIII 1.8.4, QGIS 1.1.0, PostGIS 1.3.3, R 2.9.0 with gstat and spgrass6 packages, North Carolina GRASS Dataset, QGIS & GRASS Tutorials.\n\n\nHere are some screenshots of live CDs dedicated to GIS:\n"}
{"id": "1719884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1719884", "title": "Gap (landform)", "text": "Gap (landform)\n\nA gap is a land form that is a low point or opening between hills or mountains or in a ridge or mountain range. It may be called a col, notch, pass, saddle, water gap, or wind gap, and geomorphologically are most often carved by water erosion from a freshet, stream or a river. Gaps created by freshets are often, if not normally, devoid of water through much of the year, their streams being dependent upon the meltwaters of a snow pack. Gaps sourced by small springs will generally have a small stream excepting perhaps during the most arid parts of the year.\n\nWater gaps of necessity often cut entirely through a barrier range and riverine gaps may create canyons such as the riverine gaps of the Danube River, Lehigh River Gorge, the Colorado River's Grand Canyon and the Genesee River. Such cuttings may expose millennia of strata in the local rock column writing the geologic record.\n"}
{"id": "5073626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5073626", "title": "Gazetteer for Scotland", "text": "Gazetteer for Scotland\n\nThe Gazetteer for Scotland is a gazetteer covering the geography, history and people of Scotland. It was conceived in 1995 by Bruce Gittings of the University of Edinburgh and David Munro of the Royal Scottish Geographical Society, and contains 15,500 entries as of January 2008, making it one of the largest Scottish-based web sites. It claims to be \"the largest Scottish resource available on the web\".\n\nFollowing on from a strong Scottish tradition of geographical publishing, the \"Gazetteer for Scotland\" is the first comprehensive gazetteer to be produced for the country since Francis Groome's \"Ordnance Gazetteer of Scotland\" (1882-6) (the text of which is incorporated into relevant entries). The aim is not to produce a travel guide, of which there are many, but to write a substantive and thoroughly edited description of the country, including industrial sites, notable architecture and many other features not of tourist interest.\n\nUnlike a traditional gazetteer, the \"Gazetteer for Scotland\" has been expanded into an encyclopedia, by including additional entries on famous people, events, Scottish families and family history. These entries are interlinked, and facilities provided to search and map the online database. The \"Gazetteer for Scotland\" also includes a simple interface to the historical mapping provided by the National Library of Scotland, and links to other Scottish Government resources, such as listed building information from Historic Environment Scotland and geological maps from the British Geological Survey. As such, it provides a single portal into a vast array of underlying information.\n\nIn terms of the web, the \"Gazetteer for Scotland\" is historically interesting because it is one of the earliest decisions to take what would have been a book and make it available as a website, realising that the content would grow too much larger than could be economically publishable. The web medium also permitted many more illustrations than would be possible in print. A book has, in fact, been published as a later output of this project \"Scotland: An Encyclopedia of Places and Landscape\" (2006), which distills the key facts from the \"Gazetteer for Scotland\" database, together with high-quality mapping, into a handy reference form.\n\n"}
{"id": "28567784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28567784", "title": "General levelling of France", "text": "General levelling of France\n\nThe General Levelling of France (\"nivellement général de la France\" or \"NGF\")\nforms a network of benchmarks in mainland France and Corsica, now overseen by the Institut Géographique National. It is now the official levelling network in mainland France. It is made up of two networks:\n"}
{"id": "690206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690206", "title": "Governorates of Jordan", "text": "Governorates of Jordan\n\nJordan is divided into twelve governorates (\"muhafazah\"), by the administrative divisions system of the Ministry of Interior. In 1994, four new governorates were created: Jerash, Ajloun, Madaba and Aqaba. Jerash Governorate and Ajloun Governorate were split from Irbid Governorate, Madaba Governorate was split from Amman Governorate and Aqaba Governorate was split from Ma'an Governorate. Governorates are further subdivided into districts (\"liwa\") and often into sub-districts (\"qda\").\n\nGeographically, the governorates of Jordan are located in one of three regions: the North Region, Central Region and the South Region. The three geographical regions are not distributed by area or populations but rather by geographical connectivity and distance among the population centres. The South Region is separated from the Central Region by the Mountains of Moab in Karak Governorate. The population centres of the Central and North Region are separated geographically by the mountains of Jerash Governorate. Socially, the population centres of Amman, Salt, Zarqa and Madaba form together one large metropolitan area in which business interactions in these cities are under the influence of Amman while the cities of Jerash, Ajloun, and Mafraq are mostly under the influence of the city of Irbid.\n\n"}
{"id": "1454108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1454108", "title": "Greektown", "text": "Greektown\n\nGreektown is a general name for an ethnic enclave populated primarily by Greeks or people of Greek ancestry, usually in an urban neighborhood.\n\nThe oldest Greek dominated neighborhood outside of Greece were probably the Fener in Istanbul or the Ash Shatibi in Alexandria.\n\nFor many centuries in Vienna existed the Griechenviertel (Greek quarter) in the Innere Stadt (inner town). Later the Greek community moved to other newer quarters. A traditional Austrian restaurant there is called Griechenbeisl (Greek tavern) and a street Griechengasse (Greek lane).\n\n\nA typical housing pattern found in United States' Greektowns is to buy a multiple story dwelling, move into the lower floor and rent the upper floors to other Greeks.\n\nThe following pages provide some history regarding certain Greek communities in the USA.\nThe term \"Greektown\" is not widely used in Australia, even in areas with comparatively high levels of Greek concentration. In the 1860s, a shanty town referred to as \"Greektown\" was established at Tambaroora near Bathurst in New South Wales. and there is the Greek Precinct, Melbourne\n\nMany Greeks reside in Wood Green, Harringay and Palmers Green, the latter harbouring the largest community of Greek-Cypriots outside Cyprus, resulting in these areas bearing local nicknames whereby the \"Green\" is replaced by \"Greek\" – as in \"Greek Lanes\" and \"Palmers Greek\". Although in recent years, most of London's Greek and Greek-Cypriot population resides in Southgate.\n\nBayswater is also home to a substantial Greek community. The Saint Sophia Cathedral, situated on Moscow road was built in 1882, and is a grade I listed building.\n\n"}
{"id": "10040229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10040229", "title": "Green infrastructure", "text": "Green infrastructure\n\nGreen Infrastructure or blue-green infrastructure is a network providing the “ingredients” for solving urban and climatic challenges by building with nature. The main components of this approach include stormwater management, climate adaptation, less heat stress, more biodiversity, food production, better air quality, sustainable energy production, clean water and healthy soils, as well as the more anthropocentric functions such as increased quality of life through recreation and providing shade and shelter in and around towns and cities. Green infrastructure also serves to provide an ecological framework for social, economic and environmental health of the surroundings. Green Infrastructure is considered a subset of Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure, which is defined in standards such as SuRe - the Standard for Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure. However, green infrastructure can also mean \"low-carbon infrastructure\" such as renewable energy infrastructure and public transportation systems (See \"low-carbon infrastructure\"). Blue-Green infrastructure can also be a component of sustainable drainage systems designed to manage water quantity and quality, while providing improvements to biodiversty and amentity.\n\nNature can be used to provide important services for communities by protecting them against flooding or excessive heat, or helping to improve air, soil and water quality. When nature is harnessed by people and used as an infrastructural system it is called “green infrastructure”. Green infrastructure occurs at all scales. It is most often associated with stormwater management systems, which are smart and cost-effective. However, green infrastructure is really a larger concept and is closely associated with many other things. Green infrastructure also serves to provide an ecological framework for social, economic and environmental health of the surroundings.\n\n \"Blue infrastructure\" refers to urban infrastructure relating to water. Blue infrastructure is commonly associated with green infrastructure in the urban setting and may be referred to as \"blue-green\" infrastructure when in combination. Rivers, streams, ponds and lakes may exist as natural features within cities, or be added to an urban environment as an aspect of its design. Urban developments on coasts may also have pre-existing features of the coastline specifically employed in their design. Harbours, quays, piers and other extensions of the urban environment may also be added to capture benefits associated with the marine environment. There may considerable co-benefits to health and wellbeing of populations with access to blue spaces in the urban context.\n\nSome people might expect that green spaces are excessive to maintain and extravagant in nature, but high-performing green spaces can provide real economic, ecological and social benefits. For example:\nIn result, high performing green spaces work to create a balance between built and natural environments.\n\nA study in 2012 that focused on 479 green infrastructure projects across the United States, found that 44% of green infrastructure projects reduced costs compared to the 31% that increased the costs. The most notable cost savings were due to reduced stormwater runoff and decreased heating and cooling costs.\n\nIdeas for green urban structures began in the 1870s, with concepts of urban farming and garden allotments. Alternative terminology includes stormwater best management practices (BMPs), source controls, and low impact development (LID) practices.\n\nGreen infrastructure concepts originated in mid-1980s proposals for best management practices that would achieve more holistic stormwater quantity management goals for runoff volume reduction, erosion prevention, and aquifer recharge. In 1987, amendments to the U.S. Clean Water Act introduced new provisions for management of diffuse pollutant sources from urban land uses, establishing the regulatory need for practices that unlike conventional drainage infrastructure managed runoff \"at source.\" Under the Act, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published regulations for municipalities in 1990, requiring the development of storm water pollution prevention plans and the implementation of \"source control practices\". EPA's 1993 handbook, \"Urban Runoff Pollution Prevention and Control Planning,\" identified BMPs to consider in such plans, including vegetative controls, filtration practices and infiltration practices (trenches, porous pavement).\n\nGreen Infrastructure is a concept that highlights the importance of the natural environment in decisions about land-use planning. However, the term does not have a widely recognised definition. Also known as “blue-green infrastructure” or “green-blue urban grids” the terms are used by many design-, conservation- and planning related disciplines and commonly feature stormwater management, climate adaptation and multifunctional green space.\n\nThe term \"green infrastructure\" is sometimes expanded to \"multifunctional\" green infrastructure. Multifunctionality in this context refers to the integration and interaction of different functions or activities on the same piece of land.\n\nEPA extended the concept of “green infrastructure” to apply to the management of stormwater runoff at the local level through the use of natural systems, or engineered systems that mimic natural systems, to treat polluted runoff. This use of the term \"green infrastructure\" to refer to urban \"green\" BMPs, although not central to the larger concept, does contribute to the overall health of natural ecosystems.\n\nHowever, it is apparent that the term “blue-green infrastructure” is applied in an urban context and places a greater emphasis on the management of stormwater as an integral part of creating a sustainable, multifunctional urban environment.\nProximity and access to water have been key factors in human settlement through history. In addition to providing drinking water and food, water and the spaces around it create potential for transport, trade and power generation, and provide the human population with resources in terms of recreation and tourism. Many of the world’s largest cities are located near to water sources, and networks of urban \"blue infrastructure\", such as canals, harbours and so forth, have been constructed to capture the benefits and minimise risks. Globally, cities are facing severe water uncertainties, such as floods, droughts and upstream activities on trans-boundary rivers. The increasing pressure, intensity and speed of urbanisation has led to the disappearance of any visible form of water infrastructure in most cities. Urban coastal populations are growing, and many cities have seen extensive postindustrial transformation of canals, riversides, docks etc. following changes in global trading patterns. The potential implications of such waterside regeneration in terms of public health have only recently been scientifically investigated. A systematic review conducted in 2017 found consistent evidence of positive associations between exposure of people to blue space and mental health and physical activity.\n\nOne fifth of the world’s population, 1.2 billion people, live in areas of water scarcity. Climate change and water-related disasters will place increasing demands on urban systems and will result in increased migration to urban areas. Cities require a very large input of freshwater and in turn have a huge impact on freshwater systems. Urban and industrial water use is projected to double by 2050.\n\nIn 2010 the United Nations declared that access to clean water and sanitation is a human right. New solutions for improving the sustainability of cities are being explored. Good urban water management is complex and requires not only water and wastewater infrastructure, but also pollution control and flood prevention. It requires coordination across many sectors and between different local authorities and changes in governance that lead to more sustainable and equitable use of the urban water resources.\n\nUrban forests are forests located in cities. They are an important component of urban green infrastructure systems. Urban forests use appropriate tree and vegetation species, instead of noxious and invasive kinds, which reduce the need of maintenance and irrigation. In addition, native species also provide aesthetic value while reducing cost. Diversity of plant species should also be considered in design of urban forests to avoid monocultures; this makes the urban forests more durable and resilient to pests and other harms.\n\n\nConstructed wetlands are manmade wetlands, which work as a bio-filtration system. They contain wetland vegetation and are mostly built on uplands and floodplains. Constructed wetlands are built this way to avoid connection or damage to natural wetlands and other aquatic resources. There are two main categories of constructed wetlands: subsurface flow system and free water surface system. Proper planning and operating can help avoid possible harm done to the wetlands, which are caused by alteration of natural hydrology and introduction of invasive species.\n\n\nGreen roofs improve air and water quality while reducing energy cost. The plants and soil provide more green space and insulation on roofs. Green and blue roofs also help reducing city runoff by retaining rainfall providing a potential solution for the stormwater management in highly concentrated urban areas. The social benefit of green roofs is the rooftop agriculture for the residents.\n\nThe Trust for Public Land is working in partnership with the City of Los Angeles' Community Redevelopment Agency, Bureau of Sanitation, the University of Southern California's Center for Sustainable Cities, and Jefferson High School by converting the existing 900 miles of alleys in the city to green alleys. The concept is to re-engineer existing alleyways to reflect more light to mitigate heat island effect, capture storm water, and make the space beautiful and usable by the neighboring communities. The first alley, completed in 2015, saved more than 750,000 gallons in its first year. The Green alleys will provide open space on top of these ecological benefits, converting spaces which used to feel unsafe, or used for dumping into a playground, and walking/biking corridor.\n\nThe Trust for Public Land has completed 183 green school yards across the 5 boroughs in New York. Existing asphalt school yards are converted to a more vibrant and exciting place while also incorporating infrastructure to capture and store rainwater: rain garden, rain barrel, tree groves with pervious pavers, and an artificial field with a turf base. The children are engaged in the design process, lending to a sense of ownership and encourages children to take better care of their school yard. Success in New York has allowed other cities like Philadelphia and Oakland to also convert to green school yards.\n\nLow impact development (also referred to as green stormwater infrastructure) are systems and practices that use or mimic natural processes that result in the infiltration, evapotranspiration or use of stormwater in order to protect water quality and associated aquatic habitat. LID practices aim to preserve, restore and create green space using soils, vegetation, and rainwater harvest techniques. It is an approach to land development (or re-development) that works with nature to manage stormwater as close to its source as possible. Many low impact development tools integrate vegetation or the existing soil to reduce runoff and let rainfall enter the natural water cycle.\n\nThe Green Infrastructure approach analyses the natural environment in a way that highlights its function and subsequently seeks to put in place, through regulatory or planning policy, mechanisms that safeguard critical natural areas. Where life support functions are found to be lacking, plans may propose how these can be put in place through landscaped and/or engineered improvements.\n\nWithin an urban context, this can be applied to re-introducing natural waterways and making a city self-sustaining particularly with regard to water, for example, to harvest water locally, recycle it, re-use it and integrate stormwater management into everyday infrastructure.\n\nThe multi-functionality of this approach is key to the efficient and sustainable use of land, especially in a compact and bustling country such as England where pressures on land are particularly acute. An example might be an urban edge river floodplain which provides a repository for flood waters, acts as a nature reserve, provides a recreational green space and could also be productively farmed (probably through grazing). There is growing evidence that the natural environment also has a positive effect on human health.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Green Infrastructure planning is increasingly recognised as a valuable approach for spatial planning and is now seen in national, regional and local planning and policy documents and strategies, for example in the Milton Keynes and South Midlands Growth area.\n\nIn 2009, guidance on green infrastructure planning was published by Natural England. This guidance promotes the importance of green infrastructure in 'place-making', i.e. in recognizing and maintaining the character of a particular location, especially where new developments are planned.\n\nIn North West England the former \"Regional Spatial Strategy\" had a specific Green Infrastructure Policy (EM3 - Green Infrastructure) as well as other references to the concept in other land use development policies (e.g. DP6). The policy was supported by the \"North West Green Infrastructure Guide.\" The Green Infrastructure Think Tank (GrITT) provides the support for policy development in the region and manages the web site that acts as a repository for information on Green Infrastructure.\n\nThe Natural Economy Northwest programme has supported a number of projects, commissioned by The Mersey Forest to develop the evidence base for green infrastructure in the region. In particular work has been undertaken to look at the economic value of green infrastructure, the linkage between grey and green infrastructure and also to identify areas where green infrastructure may play critical role in helping to overcome issues such as risks of flood or poor air quality.\n\nIn March 2011, a prototype Green Infrastructure Valuation Toolkit was launched. The Toolkit is available under a Creative Commons licence, and provides a range of tools that provide economic valuation of green infrastructure interventions. The toolkit has been trialled in a number of areas and strategies, including the Liverpool Green Infrastructure Strategy.\n\nIn 2012, the Greater London Authority published the All London Green Grid Supplementary Planning Guidance (ALGG SPG) which proposes an integrated network of green and open spaces together with the Blue Ribbon Network of rivers and waterways. The ALGG SPG aims to promote the concept of green infrastructure, and increase its delivery by boroughs, developers, and communities, to benefit areas such as sustainable travel, flood management, healthy living and the economic and social uplift these support.\n\nGreen Infrastructure is being promoted as an effective and efficient response to projected climate change.\n\nGreen Infrastructure may include geodiversity objectives.\n\nGreen infrastructure programs managed by EPA and partner organizations are intended to improve water quality generally through more extensive management of stormwater runoff. The practices are expected to reduce stress on traditional water drainage infrastructure--storm sewers and combined sewers—which are typically extensive networks of underground pipes and/or surface water channels in U.S. cities, towns and suburban areas. Improved stormwater management is expected to reduce the frequency of combined sewer overflows and sanitary sewer overflows, reduce the impacts of urban flooding, and provide other environmental benefits.\n\nOne example of these green infrastructure programs in use is the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). It was established in 1972 to reduce stormwater runoff pollution across the United States by distributing permits to facilities (or groups of facilities) to regulate their allowable point source pollution. Under the Clean Water Act, the NPDES may be managed by localities, which has prompted many cities and counties to delegate Best Management Practices (BMPs) to local builders for slowing and filtering surface runoff from their projects.\n\nThough green infrastructure is yet to become a mainstream practice, many US cities have initiated its implementation. For example, the City of Philadelphia has installed or supported a variety of retrofit projects in neighborhoods throughout the city. Installed improvements include:\nSome of these facilities reduce the volume of runoff entering the city's aging combined sewer system, and thereby reduce the extent of system overflows during rainstorms.\n\nAnother U.S. example is the State of Maryland's promotion of a program called GreenPrint. GreenPrint Maryland is the first web-enabled map in the nation that shows the relative ecological importance of every parcel of land in the state.\n\nCombining color-coded maps, information layers, and aerial photography with public openness and transparency, Greenprint Maryland applies the best environmental science and Geographic Information Systems (GIS) to the urgent work of preserving and protecting environmentally critical lands. A valuable new tool not only for making land conservation decisions today, but for building a broader and better informed public consensus for sustainable growth and land preservation decisions into the future.\n\nThe program was established in 2001 with the objective to “preserve an extensive, intertwined network of land vital to the long-term survival of our native plants and wildlife and industries dependent on clean environment and abundant natural resources.”\nIn April 2011, EPA announced the \"Strategic Agenda to Protect Waters and Build More Livable Communities through Green Infrastructure\" and the selection of the first ten communities to be green infrastructure partners. The communities selected were: Austin, Texas; Chelsea, Massachusetts; the Northeast Ohio Regional Sewer District (Cleveland, Ohio); the City and County of Denver, Colorado; Jacksonville, Florida; Kansas City, Missouri; Los Angeles, California; Puyallup, Washington; Onondaga County and the City of Syracuse, New York; and Washington, D.C.\n\nThe Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is also promoting green infrastructure as a means of managing urban flooding (also known as localized flooding).\n\nSince 2009, two editions of the ABC (Active, Beautiful, Clean) Waters Design Guidelines have been published by the Public Utilities Board (PUB), Singapore. The latest version (2011) contains planning and design considerations for the holistic integration of drains, canals and reservoirs with the surrounding environment. PUB encourages the various stakeholders — landowners, private developers to incorporate ABC Waters design features into their developments, and the community to embrace these infrastructures for recreational & educational purposes.\n\nThe main benefits outlined in the ABC Waters Concept include:\n\n\nA 2012 paper by the Overseas Development Institute reviewed evidence of the economic impacts of green infrastructure in fragile states.\n\nUpfront construction costs for GI were up to 8% higher than non-green infrastructure projects. Climate Finance was not adequately captured by Fragile states for GI investments, and governance issues may further hinder capability to take full advantage.\n\nGI Investments needed strong government participation as well as institutional capacities and capabilities that fragile states may not possess. Potential poverty reduction includes improved agricultural yields and higher rural electrification rates, benefits that can be transmitted to other sectors of the economy not directly linked to the GI investment.\n\nWhilst there are examples of GI investments creating new jobs in a number of sectors, it is unclear what the employment opportunities advantages are in respect to traditional infrastructure investments. The correct market conditions (i.e. labour regulations or energy demand) are also required in order to maximise employment creation opportunities.\n\nSuch factors that may not be fully exploited by fragile state governments lacking the capacity to do so. GI investments have a number of co-benefits including increased energy security and improved health outcomes, whilst a potential reduction of a country’s vulnerability to the negative effects of climate change being arguably the most important co-benefit for such investments in a fragile state context.\n\nThere is some evidence that GI options are taken into consideration during project appraisal. Engagement mostly occurs in projects specifically designed with green goals, hence there is no data showing decision making that leads to a shift towards any green alternative. Comparisons of costs, co-benefits, poverty reduction benefits or employment creation benefits between the two typologies are also not evident.\n\nCurrently, an international standard for green infrastructure is developed: SuRe® – The Standard for Sustainable and Resilient Infrastructure is a global voluntary standard which integrates key criteria of sustainability and resilience into infrastructure development and upgrade. SuRe® is developed by the Swiss Global Infrastructure Basel Foundation (GIB) and the French bank Natixis as part of a multi-stakeholder process and will be compliant with ISEAL guidelines.\nGIB has also developed the SuRe® SmartScan, a simplified version of the SuRe® Standard which serves as a self-assessment tool for infrastructure project developers. It provides them with a comprehensive and time-efficient analysis of the various themes covered by the SuRe® Standard, offering a solid foundation for projects that are planning to become certified by the SuRe® Standard in the future. Upon completion of the SmartScan, project developers receive a spider diagram evaluation, which indicates their project’s performance in the different themes and benchmarks the performances with other SmartScan assessed projects.\n\nSince 2009, two editions of the ABC (Active, Beautiful, Clean) Waters Design Guidelines have been published by the Public Utilities Board (PUB), Singapore. The latest version in 2011 contains planning and design considerations for the integration of drains, canals and reservoirs with the surrounding environment. PUB encourages the various stakeholders — landowners, private developers to incorporate ABC Waters design features into their developments, and the community to embrace these infrastructures for recreational & educational purposes.\n\nThe main benefits outlined in the ABC Waters Concept include:\n\nFarmers claimed that flooding of their farmlands was caused by suburban development upstream. The flooding was a result of funneled runoff directed into storm drains by impervious cove, which ran unmitigated and unabsorbed into their farmlands downstream. The farmers were awarded an undisclosed amount of money in the tens of millions as compensation. Low density and highly paved residential communities redirect stormwater from impervious surfaces and pipes to stream at velocities much greater than predevelopment rates. Not only are these practices environmentally damaging, they can be costly and inefficient to maintain. In response, the city of Surrey opted to employ a green infrastructure strategy and chose a 250-hectare site called East Clayton as a demonstration project. The approach reduced the stormwater flowing downstream and allows for infiltration of rainwater closer if not at its point of origin. In result, the stormwater system at East Clayton had the ability to hold one inch of rainfall per day, accounting for 90% of the annual rainfall. The incorporation of green infrastructure at Surrey, British Columbia was able to create a sustainable environment that diminishes runoff and to save around $12,000 per household.\n\nThe site of former factory “Nya Krokslätt” is situated between a mountain and a stream. Danish engineers, Ramboll, have designed a concept of slowing down and guiding storm water in the area with methods such as vegetation combined with ponds, streams and soak-away pits as well as glazed green-blue climate zones surrounding the buildings which delay and clean roof water and greywater.\nThe design concept provides for a multifunctional, rich urban environment, which includes not only technical solutions for energy efficient buildings, but encompasses the implementation of blue-green infrastructure and ecosystem services in an urban area.\n\nSince 1991, the city of Zürich has had a law stating all flat roofs (unless used as terraces) must be greened roofed surfaces. The main advantages as a result of this policy include increased biodiversity, rainwater storage and outflow delay, and micro-climatic compensation (temperature extremes, radiation balance, evaporation and filtration efficiency). Roof biotopes are stepping stones which, together with the earthbound green areas and the seeds distributed by wind and birds, make an important contribution to the urban green infrastructure.\n\nIn the old industrial area of the Ruhr District in Germany, Duisburg-Nord is a landscape park which incorporates former industrial structures and natural biodiversity. The architects Latz + Partner developed the water park which now consists of the old River Emscher, subdivided into five main sections: Klarwasserkanal (Clear Water Canal), the Emschergraben (Dyke), the Emscherrinne (Channel), the Emscherschlucht (Gorge) and the Emscherbach (Stream). The open waste water canal of the “Old Emscher” river is now fed gradually by rainwater collection through a series of barrages and water shoots. This gradual supply means that, even in lengthy dry spells, water can be supplied to the Old Emscher to replenish the oxygen levels. This has allowed the canalised river bed to become a valley with possibilities for nature development and recreation.\nAs a key part of the ecological objectives, much of the overgrown areas of the property were included in the plan as they were found to contain a wide diversity of flora and fauna, including threatened species from the red list. Another important theme in the development of the plan was to make the water system visible, in order to stimulate a relationship between visitors and the water.\n\nThe Greenhouse Project was started in 2008 by a small group of public school parents and educators to facilitate hands-on learning, not only to teach about food and nutrition, but also to help children make educated choices regarding their impact on the environment.\nThe laboratory is typically built as a traditional greenhouse on school rooftops and accommodates a hydroponic urban farm and environmental science laboratory. It includes solar panels, hydroponic growing systems, a rainwater catchment system, a weather station and a vermi composting station.\nMain topics of education include nutrition, water resource management, efficient land use, climate change, biodiversity, conservation, contamination, pollution, waste management, and sustainable development. Students learn the relationship between humans and the environment and gain a greater appreciation of sustainable development and its direct relationship to cultural diversity.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Hammarby Sjöstad had a reputation for being a run-down, polluted and unsafe industrial and residential area. Now, it is a new district in Stockholm where the City has imposed tough environmental requirements on buildings, technical installations and the traffic environment.\nAn ‘eco-cycle’ solution named the Hammarby Model, developed by Fortum, Stockholm Water Company and the Stockholm Waste Management Administration, is an integral energy, waste and water system for both housing and offices. The goal is to create a residential environment based on sustainable resource usage. Examples include waste heat from the treated wastewater being used for heating up the water in the district heating system, rainwater runoff is returned to the natural cycle through infiltration in green roofs and treatment pools, sludge from the local wastewater treatment is recycled as fertiliser for farming and forestry.\nThis sustainable model has been a source of inspiration to many urban development projects including the Toronto (Canada) Waterfront, London's New Wembley, and a number of cities/city areas in China.\n\nEPA supported the city of Emeryville, California in the development of \"Stormwater Guidelines for Green, Dense Redevelopment.\" Emeryville, which is a suburb of San Francisco, began in the 1990s reclaiming, remediating and redeveloping the many brownfields within its borders. These efforts sparked a successful economic rebound. The city did not stop there, and decided in the 2000s to harness the redevelopment progress for even better environmental outcomes, in particular that related to stormwater runoff, by requiring in 2005 the use of on-site GI practices in all new private development projects. The city faced several challenges, including a high water table, tidal flows, clay soils, contaminated soil and water, and few absorbent natural areas among the primarily impervious, paved parcels of existing and redeveloped industrial sites. The guidelines, and an accompanying spreadsheet model, were developed to make as much use of redevelopment sites as possible for handling stormwater. The main strategies fell into several categories:\n\nThe Gowanus Canal, in Brooklyn, New York, is bounded by several communities including Park Slope, Cobble Hill, Carroll Gardens, and Red Hook. The canal empties into New York Harbor. Completed in 1869, the canal was once a major transportation route for the then separate cities of Brooklyn and New York City. Manufactured gas plants, mills, tanneries, and chemical plants are among the many facilities that operated along the canal. As a result of years of discharges, storm water runoff, sewer outflows, and industrial pollutants, the canal has become one of the nation's most extensively contaminated water bodies. Contaminants include PCBs, coal tar wastes, heavy metals, and volatile organics. On March 2, 2010, EPA added the canal to the its Superfund National Priorities List (NPL). Placing the canal on the list allows the agency to further investigate contamination at the site and develop an approach to address the contamination.\n\nAfter the NPL designation, several firms tried to redesign the area surrounding the canal to meet EPA's principles. One of the proposals was the Gowanus Canal Sponge Park, suggested by DLANDstudio, an architecture and landscape architecture firm based in Brooklyn. The firm designed a public open space system that slows, absorbs, and filters surface water runoff with the goal of remediating contaminated water, activating the private canal waterfront, and revitalizing the neighborhood. The unique feature of the park is its character as a working landscape that means the ability to improve the environment of the canal over time while simultaneously supporting public engagement with the canal ecosystem. The park was cited in a professional award by the American Society of Landscape Architects, in the Analysis and Planning category, in 2010.\n\nThe Lafitte Greenway in New Orleans, Louisiana, is a post-Hurricane Katrina revitalization effort that utilizes green infrastructure to improve water quality as well as support wildlife habitat. The site was previously an industrial corridor that connected the French Quarter to Bayou St. John and Lake Pontchartrain. Part of the revitalization plan was to incorporate green infrastructure for environmental sustainability. One strategy to mitigate localized flooding was to create recreation fields that are carved out to hold water during times of heavy rains. Another strategy was to restore the native ecology of the corridor, giving special attention to the ecotones that bisect the site. The design proposed retrofitting historic buildings with stormwater management techniques, such as rainwater collection systems, which allows historic buildings to be preserved. This project received the Award of Excellence from the American Society of Landscape Architects in 2013.\n\nA Geographic Information System (GIS) is a computer system for that allows users to capture, store, display, and analyze all kinds of spatial data on Earth. GIS can gather multiple layers of information on one single map regarding streets, buildings, soil types, vegetation, and more. Planners can combine or calculate useful information such as impervious area percentage or vegetation coverage status of a specific region to design or analyze the use of green infrastructure. The continued development of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and their increasing level of use is particularly important in the development of Green Infrastructure plans. The plans frequently are based on GIS analysis of many layers of geographic information.\n\nAccording to the Green Infrastructure Master Plan, developed by Hawkins Partners, civil engineers use GIS to analyze the modeling of impervious surfaces with historical Nashville rainfall data within the CSS (combined sewer system) to find the current rates of runoff.\nGIS are able to help planning teams analyze potential volume reductions at the specific region for green infrastructures, including water harvesting, green roofs, urban trees, and structural control measures.\n\nLack of funding is consistently cited as a barrier to the implementation of green infrastructure. One advantage that green infrastructure projects offer, however, is that they generate so many benefits that they can compete for a variety of diverse funding sources. Some tax incentive programs administered by federal agencies can be used to attract financing to green infrastructure projects. Here are two examples of programs whose missions are broad enough to support green infrastructure projects:\n\n\nSome people might expect that green spaces are excessive to maintain and extravagant in nature, but high-performing green spaces can provide real economic, ecological and social benefits. For example:\nIn result, high performing green spaces work to create a balance between built and natural environments.\n\nA study in 2012 that focused on 479 green infrastructure projects across the United States, found that 44% of green infrastructure projects reduce costs compared to the 31% that increased the costs. The most notable cost savings were due to reduced stormwater runoff and decreased heating and cooling costs.\n\nA comprehensive green infrastructure in Philadelphia is planned to cost just $1.2 billion over the next 25 years, compared to over $6 billion for \"grey\" infrastructure (concrete tunnels created to move water). Under the new green infrastructure plan it is expected that:\n\nA green infrastructure plan in New York City is expected to cost $1.5 billion less than a comparable grey infrastructure approach. Also, the green stormwater management systems alone will save $1 billion, at a cost of about $0.15 less per gallon. The sustainability benefits in New York City range from $139–418 million over the 20 year life of the project. This green plan estimates that “every fully vegetated acre of green infrastructure would provide total annual benefits of $8.522 in reduced energy demand, $166 in reduced CO2 emissions, $1,044 in improved air quality, and $4,725 in increased property value.”\n\nOne program that has integrated green infrastructure into construction projects worldwide is the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification. This system offers a benchmark rating for green buildings and neighborhoods, credibly quantifying a project’s environmental responsibility. The LEED program incentivizes development that uses resources efficiently. For example, it offers specific credits for reducing indoor and outdoor water use, optimizing energy performance, producing renewable energy, and minimizing or recycling project waste. Two LEED initiatives that directly promote the use of green infrastructure include the rainwater management and heat island reduction credits. An example of a successfully LEED-certified neighborhood development is the 9th and Berks Street transit-oriented development (TOD) in Philadelphia, PA which achieved a Platinum level rating on October 12, 2017.\n\nAnother approach to implementing green infrastructure has been developed by the International Living Future Institute. Their Living Community Challenge assesses a community or city in twenty different aspects of sustainability. Notably, the Challenge considers whether the development achieves net positive water and energy uses and utilizes replenishable materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16272408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16272408", "title": "Guillaume Grandidier", "text": "Guillaume Grandidier\n\nGuillaume Grandidier (1 July 1873 – 13 September 1957) was a French geographer, ethnologist, zoologist who studied the island of Madagascar.\n\nHe was the son of the wealthy industrialist Alfred Grandidier also a zoologist and expert on Madagascar. Guillaume Grandidier was Secretary of the Geographical Society of Paris and a prolific author.\n\nThe \"Atlas des Colonies Françaises, Protectorats et Territoires sous Mandat de la France\", simply known as the Atlas Grandidier, was published under his direction in 1934. Among his other works was the monumental \"Madagascar L'Histoire politique, physique et naturelle de Madagascar\". This work was undertaken in cooperation with his father and others such as Alphonse Milne-Edwards and Leon Vaillant. This work ran to 40 volumes.\n\n\"Liopholidophis grandidieri\", a species of snake endemic to Madagascar, was named in his honor by French herpetologist François Mocquard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11613212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11613212", "title": "ISO 3166-2:NI", "text": "ISO 3166-2:NI\n\nISO 3166-2:NI is the entry for Nicaragua in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Nicaragua, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 15 departments and 2 autonomous regions.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Nicaragua. The second part is two letters.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry have been announced in newsletters by the ISO 3166/MA since the first publication of ISO 3166-2 in 1998:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38218655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38218655", "title": "Jacques Robbe", "text": "Jacques Robbe\n\nJacques Robbe (1643–1721) was a French engineer and geographer. He also wrote plays under the pseudonym Barquebois.\n\nBorn in Soissons, Robbe was educated as a lawyer. He became royal geographer, publishing a treatise on geography in 1678, which was translated into Turkish by Petros Baronian, the interpreter for the Dutch embassy in Istanbul.\n\nRobbe died in Paris in 1721.\n\n"}
{"id": "9672531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9672531", "title": "Jordan Transverse Mercator", "text": "Jordan Transverse Mercator\n\nJordan Transverse Mercator (JTM) (Arabic: نظام تربيع ميركاتور الأردني المستعرض) is a grid system created by the Royal Jordan Geographic Center (RJGC). This system is based on 6° belts with a Central Meridian of 37° East and a Scale Factor at Origin (mo) = 0.9998. The JTM is based on the Hayford ellipsoid adopted by the IUGG in 1924. No transformation parameters are presently offered by the government. However, Prof. Stephen H. Savage of Arizona State University provides the following parameters for the projection:\n\nJordan Transverse Mercator \nGeographic Coordinate System: GCS_International_1924\nDatum: D:International_1924\nSpheroid: International_1924\nPrime Meridian: Greenwich\nUnits: Degree\n\nProjection: Transverse Mercator\nUnits: Meter\nThree-parameter transformation to WGS84 is: \n\nProf. Savage also offers software, ReprojectME!, which will convert coordinates between JTM and other systems. (See http://daahl.ucsd.edu/gaialab/# for more information.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21486360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21486360", "title": "Kievan Rus'", "text": "Kievan Rus'\n\nKievan Rus' ( (), (), ) was a loose federation of East Slavic and Finnic peoples in Europe from the late 9th to the mid-13th century, under the reign of the Varangian Rurik dynasty. The modern nations of Belarus, Russia, and Ukraine all claim Kievan Rus' as their cultural ancestors, with Belarus and Russia deriving their names from it.\n\nAt its greatest extent, in the mid-11th century, it stretched from the Baltic Sea in the north to the Black Sea in the south and from the headwaters of the Vistula in the west to the Taman Peninsula in the east, uniting the majority of East Slavic tribes.\n\nAccording to Russian historiography, the first ruler to start uniting East Slavic lands into what has become known as Kievan Rus' was Prince Oleg (882–912). He extended his control from Novgorod south along the Dnieper river valley to protect trade from Khazar incursions from the east, and he moved his capital to the more strategic Kiev. Sviatoslav I (died 972) achieved the first major expansion of Kievan Rus' territorial control, fighting a war of conquest against the Khazars. Vladimir the Great (980–1015) introduced Christianity with his own baptism and, by decree, extended it to all inhabitants of Kiev and beyond. Kievan Rus' reached its greatest extent under Yaroslav the Wise (1019–1054); his sons assembled and issued its first written legal code, the Rus' Justice, shortly after his death.\n\nThe state declined beginning in the late 11th century and during the 12th century, disintegrating into various rival regional powers. It was further weakened by economic factors, such as the collapse of Rus' commercial ties to the Byzantine Empire due to the decline of Constantinople and the accompanying diminution of trade routes through its territory. The state finally fell to the Mongol invasion of the 1240s.\n\nDuring its existence, Kievan Rus' was known as the \"land of the Rus'\" (Old East Slavic: , from the ethnonym ; Greek: ; Arabic: \"\"), in Greek as , in Old French as , in Latin as (with local German spelling variants \"Ruscia\" and \"Ruzzia\"), and from the 12th century also . Various etymologies have been proposed, including , the Finnish designation for Sweden, and \"Ros\", a tribe from the middle Dnieper valley region.\nIn the Norse sources, the sagas, the principality is called Garðariki, and the peoples, according to Snorre Sturlason, are called Suiones, the confederation of Great Sviþjoð (Þjoð means people in Norse; cf. etymology of Sweden) were made up of the peoples along the Dniepr called Tanais that separated Asia and Europe (called Enea by Snorri Sturluson), all the way to the Baltics and Scandinavia. \n\nThe term \"Kievan Rus\" ( ) was coined in the 19th century in Russian historiography to refer to the period when the centre was in Kiev. In English, the term was introduced in the early 20th century, when it was found in the 1913 English translation of Vasily Klyuchevsky's \"A History of Russia\", to distinguish the early polity from successor states, which were also named \"Rus\". Later, the Russian term was rendered into Belarusian and Ukrainian as () and (), respectively.\n\nPrior to the emergence of Kievan Rus' in the 9th century AD, the lands between the Baltic Sea and Black Sea were primarily populated by eastern Slavic tribes. In the northern region around Novgorod were the Ilmen Slavs and neighboring Krivichi, who occupied territories surrounding the headwaters of the West Dvina, Dnieper, and Volga Rivers. To their north, in the Ladoga and Karelia regions, were the Finnic Chud tribe. In the south, in the area around Kiev, were the Poliane, a group of Slavicized tribes with Iranian origins, the Drevliane to the west of the Dnieper, and the Severiane to the east. To their north and east were the Vyatichi, and to their south was forested land settled by Slav farmers, giving way to steppelands populated by nomadic herdsmen.\n\nControversy persists over whether the Rus' were Varangians (Vikings) or Slavs. This uncertainty is due largely to a paucity of contemporary sources. Attempts to address this question instead rely on archaeological evidence, the accounts of foreign observers, and legends and literature from centuries later. To some extent the controversy is related to the foundation myths of modern states in the region. According to the \"Normanist\" view, the Rus' were Scandinavians, while Russian and Ukrainian nationalist historians generally argue that the Rus' were themselves Slavs. Normanist theories focus on the earliest written source for the East Slavs, the \"Primary Chronicle\", although even this account was not produced until the 12th century. Nationalist accounts have suggested that the Rus' were present before the arrival of the Varangians, noting that only a handful of Scandinavian words can be found in modern Russian and that Scandinavian names in the early chronicles were soon replaced by Slavic names. Nevertheless, archaeological evidence from the area suggests that a Scandinavian population was present during the 10th century at the latest. On balance, it seems likely that the Rus' proper were a small minority of Scandinavians who formed an elite ruling class, while the great majority of their subjects were Slavs. Considering the linguistic arguments mounted by nationalist scholars, if the proto-Rus' were Scandinavians, they must have quickly become nativized, adopting Slavic languages and other cultural practices.\n\nAhmad ibn Fadlan, an Arab traveler during the 10th century, provided one of the earliest written descriptions of the Rus': \"They are as tall as a date palm, blond and ruddy, so that they do not need to wear a tunic nor a cloak; rather the men among them wear garments that only cover half of his body and leaves one of his hands free.\" Liutprand of Cremona, who was twice an envoy to the Byzantine court (949 and 968), identifies the \"Russi\" with the Norse (\"the Russi, whom we call Norsemen by another name\") but explains the name as a Greek term referring to their physical traits (\"A certain people made up of a part of the Norse, whom the Greeks call \"[...]\" the Russi on account of their physical features, we designate as Norsemen because of the location of their origin.\"). Leo the Deacon, a 10th-century Byzantine historian and chronicler, refers to the Rus' as \"Scythians\" and notes that they tended to adopt Greek rituals and customs. But 'Scythians' in Greek parlance is used predominantly as a generic term for nomads.\n\nAccording to the \"Primary Chronicle\", the territories of the East Slavs in the 9th century were divided between the Varangians and the Khazars. The Varangians are first mentioned imposing tribute from Slavic and Finnic tribes in 859. In 862, the Finnic and Slavic tribes in the area of Novgorod rebelled against the Varangians, driving them \"back beyond the sea and, refusing them further tribute, set out to govern themselves.\" The tribes had no laws, however, and soon began to make war with one another, prompting them to invite the Varangians back to rule them and bring peace to the region:\n\nThe three brothers—Rurik, Sineus, and Truvor—established themselves in Novgorod, Beloozero, and Izborsk, respectively. Two of the brothers died, and Rurik became the sole ruler of the territory and progenitor of the Rurik Dynasty. A short time later, two of Rurik’s men, Askold and Dir, asked him for permission to go to Tsargrad (Constantinople). On their way south, they discovered \"a small city on a hill,\" Kiev, captured it and the surrounding country from the Khazars, populated the region with more Varangians, and \"established their dominion over the country of the Polyanians.\"\n\nThe Chronicle reports that Askold and Dir continued to Constantinople with a navy to attack the city in 863–66, catching the Byzantines by surprise and ravaging the surrounding area, though other accounts date the attack in 860. Patriarch Photius vividly describes the \"universal\" devastation of the suburbs and nearby islands, and another account further details the destruction and slaughter of the invasion. The Rus' turned back before attacking the city itself, due either to a storm dispersing their boats, the return of the Emperor, or in a later account, due to a miracle after a ceremonial appeal by the Patriarch and the Emperor to the Virgin. The attack was the first encounter between the Rus' and Byzantines and led the Patriarch to send missionaries north to engage and attempt to convert the Rus' and the Slavs.\n\nRurik led the Rus' until his death in about 879, bequeathing his kingdom to his kinsman, Prince Oleg, as regent for his young son, Igor. In 880-82, Oleg led a military force south along the Dnieper river, capturing Smolensk and Lyubech before reaching Kiev, where he deposed and killed Askold and Dir, proclaimed himself prince, and declared Kiev the \"mother of Rus' cities.\" Oleg set about consolidating his power over the surrounding region and the riverways north to Novgorod, imposing tribute on the East Slav tribes. In 883, he conquered the Drevlians, imposing a fur tribute on them. By 885 he had subjugated the Poliane, Severiane, Vyatichi, and Radimichs, forbidding them to pay further tribute to the Khazars. Oleg continued to develop and expand a network of Rus' forts in Slav lands, begun by Rurik in the north.\n\nThe new Kievan state prospered due to its abundant supply of furs, beeswax, honey, and slaves for export, and because it controlled three main trade routes of Eastern Europe. In the north, Novgorod served as a commercial link between the Baltic Sea and the Volga trade route to the lands of the Volga Bulgars, the Khazars, and across the Caspian Sea as far as Baghdad, providing access to markets and products from Central Asia and the Middle East. Trade from the Baltic also moved south on a network of rivers and short portages along the Dnieper known as the \"route from the Varangians to the Greeks,\" continuing to the Black Sea and on to Constantinople. Kiev was a central outpost along the Dnieper route and a hub with the east-west overland trade route between the Khazars and the Germanic lands of Central Europe. These commercial connections enriched Rus' merchants and princes, funding military forces and the construction of churches, palaces, fortifications, and further towns. Demand for luxury goods fostered production of expensive jewelry and religious wares, allowing their export, and an advanced credit and money-lending system may have also been in place.\n\nThe rapid expansion of the Rus' to the south led to conflict and volatile relationships with the Khazars and other neighbors on the Pontic steppe. The Khazars dominated the Black Sea steppe during the 8th century, trading and frequently allying with the Byzantine Empire against Persians and Arabs. In the late 8th century, the collapse of the Göktürk Khaganate led the Magyars and the Pechenegs, Ugric and Turkic peoples from Central Asia, to migrate west into the steppe region, leading to military conflict, disruption of trade, and instability within the Khazar Khaganate. The Rus' and Slavs had earlier allied with the Khazars against Arab raids on the Caucasus, but they increasingly worked against them to secure control of the trade routes.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire was able to take advantage of the turmoil to expand its political influence and commercial relationships, first with the Khazars and later with the Rus' and other steppe groups. The Byzantines established the Theme of Cherson, formally known as Klimata, in the Crimea in the 830s to defend against raids by the Rus' and to protect vital grain shipments supplying Constantinople. Cherson also served as a key diplomatic link with the Khazars and others on the steppe, and it became the centre of Black Sea commerce. The Byzantines also helped the Khazars build a fortress at Sarkel on the Don river to protect their northwest frontier against incursions by the Turkic migrants and the Rus', and to control caravan trade routes and the portage between the Don and Volga rivers.\n\nThe expansion of the Rus' put further military and economic pressure on the Khazars, depriving them of territory, tributaries, and trade. In around 890, Oleg waged an indecisive war in the lands of the lower Dniester and Dnieper rivers with the Tivertsi and the Ulichs, who were likely acting as vassals of the Magyars, blocking Rus' access to the Black Sea. In 894, the Magyars and Pechenegs were drawn into the wars between the Byzantines and the Bulgarian Empire. The Byzantines arranged for the Magyars to attack Bulgarian territory from the north, and Bulgaria in turn persuaded the Pechenegs to attack the Magyars from their rear. Boxed in, the Magyars were forced to migrate further west across the Carpathian Mountains into the Hungarian plain, depriving the Khazars of an important ally and a buffer from the Rus'. The migration of the Magyars allowed Rus' access to the Black Sea, and they soon launched excursions into Khazar territory along the sea coast, up the Don river, and into the lower Volga region. The Rus' were raiding and plundering into the Caspian Sea region from 864, with the first large-scale expedition in 913, when they extensively raided Baku, Gilan, Mazandaran and penetrated into the Caucasus.\n\nAs the 10th century progressed, the Khazars were no longer able to command tribute from the Volga Bulgars, and their relationship with the Byzantines deteriorated, as Byzantium increasingly allied with the Pechenegs against them. The Pechenegs were thus secure to raid the lands of the Khazars from their base between the Volga and Don rivers, allowing them to expand to the west. Rus' relations with the Pechenegs were complex, as the groups alternately formed alliances with and against one another. The Pechenegs were nomads roaming the steppe raising livestock which they traded with the Rus' for agricultural goods and other products. The lucrative Rus' trade with the Byzantine Empire had to pass through Pecheneg-controlled territory, so the need for generally peaceful relations was essential. Nevertheless, while the Primary Chronicle reports the Pechenegs entering Rus' territory in 915 and then making peace, they were waging war with one another again in 920. Pechenegs are reported assisting the Rus' in later campaigns against the Byzantines, yet allied with the Byzantines against the Rus' at other times.\n\nAfter the Rus' attack on Constantinople in 860, the Byzantine Patriarch Photius sent missionaries north to convert the Rus' and the Slavs. Prince Rastislav of Moravia had requested the Emperor to provide teachers to interpret the holy scriptures, so in 863 the brothers Cyril and Methodius were sent as missionaries, due to their knowledge of the Slavonic language. The Slavs had no written language, so the brothers devised the Glagolitic alphabet, later developed into Cyrillic, and standardized the language of the Slavs, later known as Old Church Slavonic. They translated portions of the Bible and drafted the first Slavic civil code and other documents, and the language and texts spread throughout Slavic territories, including Kievan Rus'. The mission of Cyril and Methodius served both evangelical and diplomatic purposes, spreading Byzantine cultural influence in support of imperial foreign policy. In 867 the Patriarch announced that the Rus' had accepted a bishop, and in 874 he speaks of an \"Archbishop of the Rus'.\"\n\nRelations between the Rus' and Byzantines became more complex after Oleg took control over Kiev, reflecting commercial, cultural, and military concerns. The wealth and income of the Rus' depended heavily upon trade with Byzantium. Constantine Porphyrogenitus described the annual course of the princes of Kiev, collecting tribute from client tribes, assembling the product into a flotilla of hundreds of boats, conducting them down the Dnieper to the Black Sea, and sailing to the estuary of the Dniester, the Danube delta, and on to Constantinople. On their return trip they would carry silk fabrics, spices, wine, and fruit. The importance of this trade relationship led to military action when disputes arose. The Primary Chronicle reports that the Rus' attacked Constantinople again in 907, probably to secure trade access. The Chronicle glorifies the military prowess and shrewdness of Oleg, an account imbued with legendary detail. Byzantine sources do not mention the attack, but a pair of treaties in 907 and 911 set forth a trade agreement with the Rus', the terms suggesting pressure on the Byzantines, who granted the Rus' quarters and supplies for their merchants and tax-free trading privileges in Constantinople.\n\nThe Chronicle provides a mythic tale of Oleg's death. A sorcerer prophesies that the death of the Grand Prince would be associated with a certain horse. Oleg has the horse sequestered, and it later dies. Oleg goes to visit the horse and stands over the carcass, gloating that he had outlived the threat, when a snake strikes him from among the bones, and he soon becomes ill and dies. The Chronicle reports that Prince Igor succeeded Oleg in 913, and after some brief conflicts with the Drevlians and the Pechenegs, a period of peace ensued for over twenty years.\n\nIn 941, Igor led another major Rus' attack on Constantinople, probably over trading rights again. A navy of 10,000 vessels, including Pecheneg allies, landed on the Bithynian coast and devastated the Asiatic shore of the Bosphorus. The attack was well-timed, perhaps due to intelligence, as the Byzantine fleet was occupied with the Arabs in the Mediterranean, and the bulk of its army was stationed in the east. The Rus' burned towns, churches, and monasteries, butchering the people and amassing booty. The emperor arranged for a small group of retired ships to be outfitted with Greek fire throwers and sent them out to meet the Rus', luring them into surrounding the contingent before unleashing the Greek fire. Liutprand of Cremona wrote that \"the Rus', seeing the flames, jumped overboard, preferring water to fire. Some sank, weighed down by the weight of their breastplates and helmets; others caught fire.\" Those captured were beheaded. The ploy dispelled the Rus' fleet, but their attacks continued into the hinterland as far as Nicomedia, with many atrocities reported as victims were crucified and set up for use as targets. At last a Byzantine army arrived from the Balkans to drive the Rus' back, and a naval contingent reportedly destroyed much of the Rus' fleet on its return voyage (possibly an exaggeration since the Rus' soon mounted another attack). The outcome indicates increased military might by Byzantium since 911, suggesting a shift in the balance of power.\n\nIgor returned to Kiev keen for revenge. He assembled a large force of warriors from among neighboring Slavs and Pecheneg allies, and sent for reinforcements of Varangians from “beyond the sea.” In 944 the Rus' force advanced again on the Greeks, by land and sea, and a Byzantine force from Cherson responded. The Emperor sent gifts and offered tribute in lieu of war, and the Rus' accepted. Envoys were sent between the Rus', the Byzantines, and the Bulgarians in 945, and a peace treaty was completed. The agreement again focused on trade, but this time with terms less favorable to the Rus', including stringent regulations on the conduct of Rus' merchants in Cherson and Constantinople and specific punishments for violations of the law. The Byzantines may have been motivated to enter the treaty out of concern of a prolonged alliance of the Rus', Pechenegs, and Bulgarians against them, though the more favorable terms further suggest a shift in power.\n\nFollowing the death of Grand Prince Igor in 945, his wife Olga ruled as regent in Kiev until their son Sviatoslav reached maturity (ca. 963). His decade-long reign over Rus' was marked by rapid expansion through the conquest of the Khazars of the Pontic steppe and the invasion of the Balkans. By the end of his short life, Sviatoslav carved out for himself the largest state in Europe, eventually moving his capital from Kiev to Pereyaslavets on the Danube in 969. In contrast with his mother's conversion to Christianity, Sviatoslav, like his druzhina, remained a staunch pagan. Due to his abrupt death in an ambush in 972, Sviatoslav's conquests, for the most part, were not consolidated into a functioning empire, while his failure to establish a stable succession led to a fratricidal feud among his sons, which resulted in two of his three sons being killed.\n\nIt is not clearly documented when the title of the Grand Duke was first introduced, but the importance of the Kiev principality was recognized after the death of Sviatoslav I in 972 and the ensuing struggle between Vladimir the Great and Yaropolk I. The region of Kiev dominated the state of Kievan Rus' for the next two centuries. The Grand Prince (\"velikiy kniaz'\") of Kiev controlled the lands around the city, and his formally subordinate relatives ruled the other cities and paid him tribute. The zenith of the state's power came during the reigns of Vladimir the Great (980–1015) and Prince Yaroslav I the Wise (1019–1054). Both rulers continued the steady expansion of Kievan Rus' that had begun under Oleg.\n\nVladimir had been prince of Novgorod when his father Sviatoslav I died in 972. He was forced to flee to Scandinavia in 976 after his half-brother Yaropolk had murdered his other brother Oleg and taken control of Rus. In Scandinavia, with the help of his relative Earl Håkon Sigurdsson, ruler of Norway, Vladimir assembled a Viking army and reconquered Novgorod and Kiev from Yaropolk. As Prince of Kiev, Vladimir's most notable achievement was the Christianization of Kievan Rus', a process that began in 988. The Primary Chronicle states that when Vladimir had decided to accept a new faith instead of the traditional idol-worship (paganism) of the Slavs, he sent out some of his most valued advisors and warriors as emissaries to different parts of Europe. They visited the Christians of the Latin Rite, the Jews, and the Muslims before finally arriving in Constantinople. They rejected Islam because, among other things, it prohibited the consumption of alcohol, and Judaism because the god of the Jews had permitted his chosen people to be deprived of their country. They found the ceremonies in the Roman church to be dull. But at Constantinople, they were so astounded by the beauty of the cathedral of Hagia Sophia and the liturgical service held there that they made up their minds there and then about the faith they would like to follow. Upon their arrival home, they convinced Vladimir that the faith of the Byzantine Rite was the best choice of all, upon which Vladimir made a journey to Constantinople and arranged to marry Princess Anna, the sister of Byzantine emperor Basil II.\n\nVladimir's choice of Eastern Christianity may also have reflected his close personal ties with Constantinople, which dominated the Black Sea and hence trade on Kiev's most vital commercial route, the Dnieper River. Adherence to the Eastern Church had long-range political, cultural, and religious consequences. The church had a liturgy written in Cyrillic and a corpus of translations from Greek that had been produced for the Slavic peoples. This literature facilitated the conversion to Christianity of the Eastern Slavs and introduced them to rudimentary Greek philosophy, science, and historiography without the necessity of learning Greek (there were some merchants who did business with Greeks and likely had an understanding of contemporary business Greek). In contrast, educated people in medieval Western and Central Europe learned Latin. Enjoying independence from the Roman authority and free from tenets of Latin learning, the East Slavs developed their own literature and fine arts, quite distinct from those of other Eastern Orthodox countries. (See Old East Slavic language and Architecture of Kievan Rus for details). Following the Great Schism of 1054, the Rus' church maintained communion with both Rome and Constantinople for some time, but along with most of the Eastern churches it eventually split to follow the Eastern Orthodox. That being said, unlike other parts of the Greek world, Kievan Rus' did not have a strong hostility to the Western world.\n\nYaroslav, known as \"the Wise\", struggled for power with his brothers. A son of Vladimir the Great, he was vice-regent of Novgorod at the time of his father's death in 1015. Subsequently, his eldest surviving brother, Svyatopolk the Accursed, killed three of his other brothers and seized power in Kiev. Yaroslav, with the active support of the Novgorodians and the help of Viking mercenaries, defeated Svyatopolk and became the grand prince of Kiev in 1019. Although he first established his rule over Kiev in 1019, he did not have uncontested rule of all of Kievan Rus' until 1036. Like Vladimir, Yaroslav was eager to improve relations with the rest of Europe, especially the Byzantine Empire. Yaroslav's granddaughter, Eupraxia the daughter of his son Vsevolod I, Prince of Kiev, was married to Henry IV, Holy Roman Emperor. Yaroslav also arranged marriages for his sister and three daughters to the kings of Poland, France, Hungary and Norway. Yaroslav promulgated the first East Slavic law code, \"Russkaya Pravda\"; built Saint Sophia Cathedral in Kiev and Saint Sophia Cathedral in Novgorod; patronized local clergy and monasticism; and is said to have founded a school system. Yaroslav's sons developed the great Kiev Pechersk Lavra (monastery), which functioned in Kievan Rus' as an ecclesiastical academy.\n\nIn the centuries that followed the state's foundation, Rurik's descendants shared power over Kievan Rus'. Princely succession moved from elder to younger brother and from uncle to nephew, as well as from father to son. Junior members of the dynasty usually began their official careers as rulers of a minor district, progressed to more lucrative principalities, and then competed for the coveted throne of Kiev.\n\nThe gradual disintegration of the Kievan Rus' began in the 11th century, after the death of Yaroslav the Wise. The position of the Grand Prince of Kiev was weakened by the growing influence of regional clans.\n\nAn unconventional power succession system was established (rota system) whereby power was transferred to the eldest member of the ruling dynasty rather than from father to son, i.e. in most cases to the eldest brother of the ruler, fomenting constant hatred and rivalry within the royal family. Familicide was frequently deployed to obtain power and can be traced particularly during the time of the Yaroslavichi (sons of Yaroslav), when the established system was skipped in the establishment of Vladimir II Monomakh as the Grand Prince of Kiev, in turn creating major squabbles between Olegovichi from Chernihiv, Monomakhs from Pereyaslav, Izyaslavichi from Turov/Volhynia, and Polotsk Princes.\n\nThe most prominent struggle for power was the conflict that erupted after the death of Yaroslav the Wise. The rivaling Principality of Polotsk was contesting the power of the Grand Prince by occupying Novgorod, while Rostislav Vladimirovich was fighting for the Black Sea port of Tmutarakan belonging to Chernihiv. Three of Yaroslav's sons that first allied together found themselves fighting each other especially after their defeat to the Cuman forces in 1068 at the Battle of the Alta River. At the same time, an uprising took place in Kiev, bringing to power Vseslav of Polotsk who supported the traditional Slavic paganism. The ruling Grand Prince Iziaslav fled to Poland asking for support and in couple of years returned to establish the order. The affairs became even more complicated by the end of the 11th century driving the state into chaos and constant warfare. On the initiative of Vladimir II Monomakh in 1097 the first federal council of Kievan Rus took place near Chernihiv in the city of Liubech with the main intention to find an understanding among the fighting sides. However, even though that did not really stop the fighting, it certainly cooled things off.\n\nBy 1130, all descendants of Vseslav the Seer had been exiled to the Byzantine Empire by Mstislav the Great. The most fierce resistance to Monomakhs posed Olegovichi when the izgoi Vsevolod II managed to become the Grand Prince of Kiev. Rostislavichi who have initially established in Halych lands by 1189 were defeated by the Monomakh-Piast descendant Roman the Great.\n\nThe decline of Constantinople – a main trading partner of Kievan Rus' – played a significant role in the decline of the Kievan Rus'. The trade route from the Varangians to the Greeks, along which the goods were moving from the Black Sea (mainly Byzantine) through eastern Europe to the Baltic, was a cornerstone of Kiev wealth and prosperity. Kiev was the main power and initiator in this relationship, once the Byzantine Empire fell into turmoil and the supplies became erratic, profits dried out, and Kiev lost its appeal.\n\nThe last ruler to maintain a united state was Mstislav the Great. After his death in 1132, the Kievan Rus' fell into recession and a rapid decline, and Mstislav's successor Yaropolk II of Kiev instead of focusing on the external threat of the Cumans was embroiled in conflicts with the growing power of the Novgorod Republic. In 1169, as the Kievan Rus' state was full of internal conflict, Andrei Bogolyubsky of Vladimir sacked the city of Kiev. The sack of the city fundamentally changed the perception of Kiev and was evidence of the fragmentation of the Kievan Rus'. By the end of the 12th century, the Kievan state became even further fragmented and had been divided into roughly twelve different principalities.\n\nThe Crusades brought a shift in European trade routes that accelerated the decline of Kievan Rus'. In 1204, the forces of the Fourth Crusade sacked Constantinople, making the Dnieper trade route marginal. At the same time, the Teutonic Knights (of the Northern Crusades) were conquering the Baltic region and threatening the Lands of Novgorod. Concurrently with it, the Ruthenian Federation of Kievan Rus' started to disintegrate into smaller principalities as the Rurik dynasty grew. The local Orthodox Christianity of Kievan Rus', while struggling to establish itself in the predominantly pagan state and losing its main base in Constantinople, was on the brink of extinction. Some of the main regional centres that developed later were Novgorod, Chernigov, Halych, Kiev, Ryazan, Vladimir-upon-Klyazma, Volodimer-Volyn and Polotsk.\n\nIn the north, the Republic of Novgorod prospered because it controlled trade routes from the River Volga to the Baltic Sea. As Kievan Rus' declined, Novgorod became more independent. A local oligarchy ruled Novgorod; major government decisions were made by a town assembly, which also elected a prince as the city's military leader. In 1136, Novgorod revolted against Kiev, and became independent. Now an independent city republic, and referred to as \"Lord Novgorod the Great\" it would spread its \"mercantile interest\" to the west and the north; to the Baltic Sea and the low-populated forest regions respectively. In 1169, Novgorod acquired its own archbishop, named Ilya, a sign of further increased importance and political independence. Novgorod enjoyed a wide degree of autonomy although being closely associated with the Kievan Rus.\n\nIn the northeast, Slavs from the Kievan region colonized the territory that later would become the Grand Duchy of Moscow by subjugating and merging with the Finnic tribes already occupying the area. The city of Rostov, the oldest centre of the northeast, was supplanted first by Suzdal and then by the city of Vladimir, which become the capital of Vladimir-Suzdal'. The combined principality of Vladimir-Suzdal asserted itself as a major power in Kievan Rus' in the late 12th century. In 1169, Prince Andrey Bogolyubskiy of Vladimir-Suzdal sacked the city of Kiev and took over the title of the (Великий Князь/Velikiy Knyaz/Grand Prince or Grand Duke) to claim primacy in Rus'. Prince Andrey then installed his younger brother, who ruled briefly in Kiev while Andrey continued to rule his realm from Suzdal. In 1299, in the wake of the Mongol invasion, the metropolitan moved from Kiev to the city of Vladimir and Vladimir-Suzdal.\n\nTo the southwest, the principality of Halych had developed trade relations with its Polish, Hungarian and Lithuanian neighbours and emerged as the local successor to Kievan Rus'. In 1199, Prince Roman Mstislavych united the two previously separate principalities. In 1202 he conquered Kiev, and assumed the title of Knyaz of Kievan Rus', which was held by the rulers of Vladimir-Suzdal since 1169. His son, Prince Daniel (r. 1238–1264) looked for support from the West. He accepted a crown as a \"Rex Rusiae\" (\"King of Rus\") from the Roman papacy, apparently doing so without breaking with Constantinople. In 1370, the patriarch of the Eastern Orthodox Church in Constantinople granted the King of Poland a metropolitan for his Ruthenian subjects. Lithuanian rulers also requested and received a metropolitan for Novagrudok shortly afterwards. Cyprian, a candidate pushed by the Lithuanian rulers, became Metropolitan of Kiev in 1375 and metropolitan of Moscow in 1382; this way the church in the Russian countries was reunited for some time. In 1439, Kiev became the seat of a separate \"Metropolitan of Kiev, Halych and all Rus'\" for all Greek Orthodox Christians under Polish-Lithuanian rule.\n\nHowever, a long and unsuccessful struggle against the Mongols combined with internal opposition to the prince and foreign intervention weakened Galicia-Volhynia. With the end of the Mstislavich branch of the Rurikids in the mid-14th century, Galicia-Volhynia ceased to exist; Poland conquered Halych; Lithuania took Volhynia, including Kiev, conquered by Gediminas in 1321 ending the rule of Rurikids in the city. Lithuanian rulers then assumed the title over Ruthenia.\n\nThe state finally disintegrated under the pressure of the Mongol invasion of Rus', fragmenting it into successor principalities who paid tribute to the Golden Horde (the so-called Tatar Yoke). In the late 15th century, the Muscovite Grand Dukes began taking over former Kievan territories and proclaimed themselves the sole legal successors of the Kievan principality according to the protocols of the medieval theory of translatio imperii.\n\nOn the western periphery, Kievan Rus' was succeeded by the Principality of Galicia-Volhynia. Later, as these territories, now part of modern central Ukraine and Belarus, fell to the Gediminids, the powerful, largely Ruthenized Grand Duchy of Lithuania drew heavily on Rus' cultural and legal traditions. Due to the fact of the economic and cultural core of Rus' being located on the territory of modern Ukraine, Ukrainian historians and scholars consider Kievan Rus' to be a founding Ukrainian state.\n\nOn the north-eastern periphery of Kievan Rus', traditions were adapted in the Vladimir-Suzdal Principality that gradually gravitated towards Moscow. To the very north, the Novgorod and Pskov Feudal Republics were less autocratic than Vladimir- Suzdal- Moscow until they were absorbed by the Grand Duchy of Moscow. Russian historians consider Kievan Rus the first period of Russian history.\n\nDuring the Kievan era, trade and transport depended largely on networks of rivers and portages. The peoples of Rus' experienced a period of great economic expansion, opening trade routes with the Vikings to the north and west and with the Byzantine Greeks to the south and west; traders also began to travel south and east, eventually making contact with Persia and the peoples of Central Asia.\n\nDue to the expansion of trade and its geographical proximity, Kiev became the most important trade centre and chief among the communes; therefore the leader of Kiev gained political \"control\" over the surrounding areas. This princedom emerged from a coalition of traditional patriarchic family communes banded together in an effort to increase the applicable workforce and expand the productivity of the land. This union developed the first major cities in the Rus' and was the first notable form of self-government. As these communes became larger, the emphasis was taken off the family holdings and placed on the territory that surrounded. This shift in ideology became known as the verv'.\n\nIn the 11th and the 12th centuries, the princes and their retinues, which were a mixture of Slavic and Scandinavian elites, dominated the society of Kievan Rus'. Leading soldiers and officials received income and land from the princes in return for their political and military services. Kievan society lacked the class institutions and autonomous towns that were typical of Western European feudalism. Nevertheless, urban merchants, artisans and labourers sometimes exercised political influence through a city assembly, the \"veche\" (council), which included all the adult males in the population. In some cases, the veche either made agreements with their rulers or expelled them and invited others to take their place. At the bottom of society was a stratum of slaves. More important was a class of tribute-paying peasants, who owed labour duty to the princes. The widespread personal serfdom characteristic of Western Europe did not exist in Kievan Rus'.\n\nThe change in political structure led to the inevitable development of the peasant class or smerdy. The smerdy were free un-landed people that found work by labouring for wages on the manors that began to develop around 1031 as the verv' began to dominate socio-political structure. The smerdy were initially given equality in the Kievian law code, they were theoretically equal to the prince, so they enjoyed as much freedom as can be expected of manual labourers. However, in the 13th century, they slowly began to lose their rights and became less equal in the eyes of the law.\n\nSee also: Old Russian Law, main source: Russkaya Pravda.\n\nKievan Rus', although sparsely populated compared to Western Europe, was not only the largest contemporary European state in terms of area but also culturally advanced. Literacy in Kiev, Novgorod and other large cities was high. As birch bark documents attest, they exchanged love letters and prepared cheat sheets for schools. Novgorod had a sewage system and wood paving not often found in other cities at the time. The Russkaya Pravda confined punishments to fines and generally did not use capital punishment. Certain rights were accorded to women, such as property and inheritance rights.\n\nThe economic development of Kievan Rus may be translated into demographic statistics. Around 1200, Kiev had a population of 50,000, Novgorod and Chernigov both had around 30,000. Constantinople had population of about 400,000 around 1180. The Soviet scholar Mikhail Tikhomirov calculated that Kievan Rus' on the eve of the Mongol invasion had around 300 urban centres.\n\nKievan Rus' also played an important genealogical role in European politics. Yaroslav the Wise, whose stepmother belonged to the Macedonian dynasty, which ruled the Byzantine empire from 867 to 1056, married the only legitimate daughter of the king who Christianized Sweden. His daughters became queens of Hungary, France and Norway, his sons married the daughters of a Polish king and a Byzantine emperor (not to mention a niece of the Pope), while his granddaughters were a German Empress and (according to one theory) the queen of Scotland. A grandson married the only daughter of the last Anglo-Saxon king of England. Thus the Rurikids were a well-connected royal family of the time.\n\nFrom the 9th century, the Pecheneg nomads began an uneasy relationship with Kievan Rus′. For over two centuries they launched sporadic raids into the lands of Rus′, which sometimes escalated into full-scale wars (such as the 920 war on the Pechenegs by Igor of Kiev reported in the Primary Chronicle), but there were also temporary military alliances (e.g. the 943 Byzantine campaign by Igor). In 968, the Pechenegs attacked and besieged the city of Kiev. Some speculation exists that the Pechenegs drove off the Tivertsi and the Ulichs to the regions of the upper Dniester river in Bukovina. The Byzantine Empire was known to support the Pechenegs in their military campaigns against the Eastern Slavic states.\n\nBoniak was a Cuman khan who led a series of invasions on Kievan Rus′. In 1096, Boniak attacked Kiev, plundered the Kiev Monastery of the Caves, and burned down the prince's palace in Berestovo. He was defeated in 1107 by Vladimir Monomakh, Oleg, Sviatopolk and other Rus′ princes.\n\nThe Mongol Empire invaded Kievan Rus' in the 13th century, destroying numerous cities, including Ryazan, Kolomna, Moscow, Vladimir and Kiev. Giovanni de Plano Carpini, the Pope's envoy to the Mongol Great Khan, traveled through Kiev in February 1246 and wrote:\n\n\"They [the Mongols] attacked Rus, where they made great havoc, destroying cities and fortresses and slaughtering men; and they laid siege to Kiev, the capital of Rus; after they had besieged the city for a long time, they took it and put the inhabitants to death. When we were journeying through that land we came across countless skulls and bones of dead men lying about on the ground. Kiev had been a very large and thickly populated town, but now it has been reduced almost to nothing, for there are at the present time scarce two hundred houses there and the inhabitants are kept in complete slavery\"\n\nByzantium quickly became the main trading and cultural partner for Kiev, but relations were not always friendly. The most serious conflict between the two powers was the war of 968–971 in Bulgaria, but several Rus' raiding expeditions against the Byzantine cities of the Black Sea coast and Constantinople itself are also recorded. Although most were repulsed, they were concluded by trade treaties that were generally favourable to the Rus'.\n\nRus'-Byzantine relations became closer following the marriage of the \"porphyrogenita\" Anna to Vladimir the Great, and the subsequent Christianization of the Rus': Byzantine priests, architects and artists were invited to work on numerous cathedrals and churches around Rus', expanding Byzantine cultural influence even further. Numerous Rus' served in the Byzantine army as mercenaries, most notably as the famous Varangian Guard.\n\n\n\nIn 988, the Christian Church in Rus' territorially fell under the jurisdiction of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople after it was officially adopted as the state religion. According to several chronicles after that date the predominant cult of Slavic paganism was persecuted.\n\nThe exact date of creation of the Kiev Metropolis is uncertain, as well as who was the first leader of the church. Predominantly it is considered that the first head was Michael I of Kiev, however some sources also claim Leontiy who is often placed after Michael or Anastas Chersonesos, became the first bishop of the Church of the Tithes. The first metropolitan to be confirmed by historical sources is Theopemp, who was appointed by Patriarch Alexius of Constantinople in 1038. Before 1015 there were five dioceses: Kiev, Chernihiv, Bilhorod, Volodymyr, Novgorod, and soon thereafter Yuriy-upon-Ros. The Kiev Metropolitan sent his own delegation to the Council of Bari in 1098.\n\nAfter the sacking of Kiev in 1169, part of the Kiev metropolis started to move to Vladimir-upon-Klyazma, concluding the move sometime after 1240 when Kiev was taken by Batu Khan. Metropolitan Maxim was the first metropolitan who chose Vladimir-upon-Klyazma as his official residence in 1299. As a result, in 1303, Lev I of Galicia petitioned Patriarch Athanasius I of Constantinople for the creation of a new Halych metropolis; however, it only existed until 1347.\n\nThe Church of the Tithes was chosen as the first Cathedral Temple. In 1037, the cathedral was transferred to the newly built Saint Sophia Cathedral in Kiev. Upon the transferring of the metropolitan seat in 1299, the Dormition Cathedral, Vladimir was chosen as the new cathedral.\n\nBy the mid 13th century, the dioceses of Kiev Metropolis (988) were as follows: Kiev (988), Pereyaslav, Chernihiv (991), Volodymyr-Volynsky (992), Turov (1005), Polotsk (1104), Novgorod (~990s), Smolensk (1137), Murom (1198), Peremyshl (1120), Halych (1134), Vladimir-upon-Klyazma (1215), Rostov (991), Bilhorod, Yuriy (1032), Chełm (1235), Tver (1271). There also were dioceses in Zakarpattia and Tmutarakan. In 1261 the Sarai-Batu diocese was established.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33148834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33148834", "title": "Law's Falls, Coonoor", "text": "Law's Falls, Coonoor\n\nLaw's Falls is a tourist spot in Coonoor, The Nilgiris, Tamil Nadu.\n\n"}
{"id": "48451180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48451180", "title": "Linda McDowell", "text": "Linda McDowell\n\nLinda Margaret McDowell (born 1949) is a British geographer and academic, specialising in the ethnography of work and employment. She was Professor of Geography at the University of Oxford from 2004 to 2016.\n\nMcDowell studied for her PhD as a part-time student at the Bartlett School of Planning, where she had previously earned a master's degree. \nSupervised by Peter Cowan, she researched housing change in London. \n\nPrior to completing her PhD, she lectured at the Open University. She then returned to the University of Cambridge, where she had studied as an undergraduate. \nShe took a chair at London School of Economics in 1999, after which she moved first to University College London and then, in 2004, to the University of Oxford.\n\nShe is an economic geographer, who describes herself as an ethnographer of work and employment. \nShe wrote the first paper on feminism in the journal Society and Space, while her three books on work and gender - \"Capital Culture: Gender at Work in the City\", which explored the role of gender in the City of London's financial services; \"Gender, Place and Identity\", which offered a broader introduction to gender and geography; and \"Redundant Masculinities\", which explored masculinity in the context of economic downturns - have been major contributions to feminist geography and geographies of gender. More recently, her research has explored labour and economic migration since 1945.\n\nMcDowell's work has received numerous awards. From the Royal Geographical Society she has been awarded the Back Award and the Victoria Medal. In 2008, she became a fellow of the British Academy. She is also a fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences. McDowell has edited the journals Area and Antipode.\n\nShe was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2016 New Year Honours for services to geography and higher education.\n\n"}
{"id": "5544423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5544423", "title": "List of FIPS region codes (A–C)", "text": "List of FIPS region codes (A–C)\n\nThis is a list of FIPS 10-4 region codes from A-C, using a standardized name format, and cross-linking to articles.\n\nOn September 2, 2008, FIPS 10-4 was one of ten standards withdrawn by NIST as a Federal Information Processing Standard. The list here is the last version of codes. For earlier versions, see link below.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28906394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28906394", "title": "List of Religious Cultural Monuments of Albania", "text": "List of Religious Cultural Monuments of Albania\n\nThe List of Religious Cultural Monuments of Albania () refers to a monument in Albania which has been recognized by the Government of Albania and Ministry of Culture as a religious national heritage monument and one which is seen as of top importance to the religious culture of the nation. These cultural monuments include places of worship, including mosques, churches and monasteries. As of 2010, there were 201 places of worship that have been designated as Religious Cultural Monuments.\n\n\nIn Gjirokastër:\n\nIn Përmet:\n\nIn other towns:\n\nIn Korçë:\n\nIn Moscopole (Voskopojë):\n\nIn other towns:\n\nIn Vlorë:\n\nIn Himarë:\nIn Dhërmi:\n\nIn Vuno:\n\nIn other towns:\n"}
{"id": "22615993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22615993", "title": "List of Speakers of the Anguilla House of Assembly", "text": "List of Speakers of the Anguilla House of Assembly\n\nList of Speakers of the Anguilla House of Assembly.\n\nBelow is a list of office-holders:\n"}
{"id": "31562120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31562120", "title": "List of airlines of Guam", "text": "List of airlines of Guam\n\nThis is a list of airlines currently operating in Guam.\n\n"}
{"id": "50428328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50428328", "title": "List of extreme summits of Mexico", "text": "List of extreme summits of Mexico\n\nThis article comprises four sortable tables of mountain summits of Mexico that are the higher than any other point north or south of their latitude or east or west their longitude in Mexico.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\n!Rank\n!Mountain Peak\n!State\n!Mountain range\n!Elevation\n!Prominence\n!Isolation\n!Location\n"}
{"id": "33535537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33535537", "title": "List of flag bearers for Nauru at the Olympics", "text": "List of flag bearers for Nauru at the Olympics\n\nThis is a list of flag bearers who have represented Nauru at the Olympics.\n\nFlag bearers carry the national flag of their country at the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games.\n\n"}
{"id": "47491333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47491333", "title": "List of mammals of Ascension Island", "text": "List of mammals of Ascension Island\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded on and around Ascension Island. Ascension Island has two native mammal species, both of which are beaked whales in the genus Mesoplodon. Neither is thought to be at risk, but there is insufficient data collected on them to allow an assessment to be made.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11358034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11358034", "title": "List of mammals of the Northern Mariana Islands", "text": "List of mammals of the Northern Mariana Islands\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in the Northern Mariana Islands. There are 7 mammal species in the Northern Mariana Islands, of which 0 are critically endangered, 1 is endangered, 1 is vulnerable, and 0 are near-threatened.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\n\nSirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered.\n\n\nThe bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals in the world naturally capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20% of all mammals.\n\n\nThere are over 260 species of carnivorans, the majority of which feed primarily on meat. They have a characteristic skull shape and dentition.\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1223987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1223987", "title": "List of political parties in Réunion", "text": "List of political parties in Réunion\n\nRéunion is not a separate territory but a region of France. France has a multi-party system, with numerous parties in which no one party often has a chance of gaining power alone, and parties must work with each other to form coalition governments.\n\nFor further details see the article: Politics of France.\n\nMost of the French political parties are active in Réunion.\n\nIn addition there is the following regional party:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51955881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51955881", "title": "Mes-Meheux, Sierra Leone", "text": "Mes-Meheux, Sierra Leone\n\nMes-Meheux, Sierra Leone is an uninhabited island of the Banana Islands and was named after Jean Meheux, who was a French merchant and trader who assimilated into African society. Jean Meheux had several children with a Temne woman and had several children including John Meheux, a Sheriff of the Colony of Sierra Leone. Jean Meheux owned a large house and extensive property in Kissy Road and Kissy Street and 'Meheux Street' commemorates Jean Meheux's family and descendants.\n"}
{"id": "54581021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54581021", "title": "Opus Center", "text": "Opus Center\n\nOpus Center is a set of four office buildings built in Downtown Seattle. The structures, completed in 2000 or 2001, are four, nine and eleven stories tall, and two of them are constructed on a lid over the underground Chinatown transit station, completed in 1985. Until 2011 it was the headquarters of Amazon.com.\n\nThe building's engineering is unusual because of the placement over the transit tunnel, and for other reasons. Part of the structure is cantilevered over the 1985 load-bearing columns that did not match the later building's design. Because of the tunnel, four buildings are designed as one seismic unit, including a rubber membrane serving as a joint between all the buildings and 505 Union Station. It was the first building in Seattle with perimeter moment frame design since the 1994 Northridge earthquake, which exposed national safety concerns requiring re-review of this technique.\n"}
{"id": "16278993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278993", "title": "Outline of Luxembourg", "text": "Outline of Luxembourg\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Luxembourg:\n\nLuxembourg – small sovereign country located in Western Europe, bordered by Belgium, France, and Germany. Luxembourg has a population of half a million people in an area of approximately 2,586 square kilometres (999 sq mi).\n\nLuxembourg is a parliamentary representative democracy with a constitutional monarchy, ruled by a Grand Duke. It is the world's only remaining sovereign Grand Duchy. The country has a highly developed economy, with the highest Gross Domestic Product per capita in the world (U.S. Central Intelligence Agency 2007). Its historic and strategic importance dates back to its founding as a Roman era fortress site and Frankish count's castle site in the Early Middle Ages. It was an important bastion along the Spanish road when Spain was the principal European power influencing the whole western hemisphere and beyond in the 14th–17th centuries.\n\nLuxembourg is a founding member of the European Union, NATO, the United Nations, Benelux, and the Western European Union, reflecting the political consensus in favour of economic, political, and military integration. The city of Luxembourg, the capital and largest city, is the seat of several institutions and agencies of the European Union.\n\nLuxembourg lies on the cultural divide between Romance Europe and Germanic Europe, borrowing customs from each of the distinct traditions. Luxembourg is a trilingual country; French, German, and Luxembourgish are official languages. Although a secular state, Luxembourg is predominantly Roman Catholic.\n\n\nGeography of Luxembourg\n\nEnvironment of Luxembourg\n\n\n\nList of ecoregions in Luxembourg\n\nAdministrative divisions of Luxembourg\n\nDistricts of Luxembourg\n\nCantons of Luxembourg\n\nCommunes of Luxembourg\n\n\n\nDemographics of Luxembourg\n\nPolitics of Luxembourg\n\nGovernment of Luxembourg\n\n\n\nCourt system of Luxembourg\n\nForeign relations of Luxembourg\n\nThe Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is a member of:\n\nLaw of Luxembourg\n\nMilitary of Luxembourg\n\nLocal government in Luxembourg\n\nHistory of Luxembourg\n\nCulture of Luxembourg\n\nArt of Luxembourg\n\nSports in Luxembourg\n\nEconomy of Luxembourg\n\n\nEducation in Luxembourg\n\nLuxembourg\n\n"}
{"id": "16279077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16279077", "title": "Outline of the Federated States of Micronesia", "text": "Outline of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Micronesia:\n\nThe Federated States of Micronesia – island nation located in the North Pacific Ocean, north of Papua New Guinea. The country is a sovereign state in free association with the United States. The Federated States of Micronesia were formerly part of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, a United Nations Trust Territory under US administration. In 1979 they adopted a constitution, and in 1986 independence was attained under a Compact of Free Association with the United States. Present concerns include large-scale unemployment, overfishing, and dependence on U.S. aid. The Federated States of Micronesia are located in the region known as Micronesia, which consists of hundreds of small islands divided in seven territories. The term \"Micronesia\" may refer to the Federated States or to the region as a whole, even though the lack of a central government makes it a sovereign group of states, not a country.\n\n\nGeography of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\n\n\nRegions of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nList of ecoregions in the Federated States of Micronesia\nNone\n\n\nDemographics of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nPolitics of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nGovernment of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\n\nCourt system of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nForeign relations of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nThe Federated States of Micronesia is a member of:\n\nLaw of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nMilitary of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nLocal government in the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nHistory of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nCulture of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\n\nSports in the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nEconomy of the Federated States of Micronesia\n\nEducation in the Federated States of Micronesia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50597542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50597542", "title": "Padovano", "text": "Padovano\n\nPadovano is an Italian surname meaning \"Paduan\", \"of Padua\" or \"from Padua\". Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4661947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4661947", "title": "Paristan", "text": "Paristan\n\nParistan or Pari-estan ( \"Pariyestân\", \"fairyland\"; \"pari\" [fairy] + the suffix \"-stan\") is a name of a \"fairyland\" in the mythology of the Middle East. In many children's stories \"Koh-e-Qaf\" is also used for \"fairyland\". \"Koh-e-Qaf\" () refers to the Caucasus mountains. It has since entered the folklore of South Asia and Central Asia.\n\nMost of the fairies are depicted as young females with very fair colour, golden hair and light colored eyes. The location of Koh-e-Qaf is usually claimed to be around Baghdad (Iraq). The story named \"Thief of Baghdad\" mentions that the fairies of Koh-e-Qaf live in a place near Baghdad.\n\n"}
{"id": "23465091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23465091", "title": "Piazza telematica", "text": "Piazza telematica\n\nIn the fields of urban planning, urban regeneration and e-government, the term piazza telematica has been used in Italy since the early 1990s by a number of community network and local institutions for promoting the insertion, inside the urban upgrading processes, of the principles of sustainable development and of accessibility for all to IT tools for assuring the Right of Citizenship: the possibilities to participate in public decision processes, to access to the knowledge and training, to take part of the social local community life.\n\nThe term piazza telematica evokes a hybrid space indebted in equal parts to the real (with territorial components) and the virtual space that has to be considered as a whole, a new glocal (global – local) public space with a great symbolic value for the democratic interaction and for the social life.\n\nThe word “piazza” underlines the semantic significance of a public space traditionally located in the heart of the town centre or of a village and dedicated to communication, meeting, and the exchange of material goods and, at present, through the use of telematics systems and services, to the exchange also of immaterial goods (new virtual services and functions: Telecommuting, Coworking, online Training through Multi-monitor, Telemedicine, Electronic commerce and the new Sustainable mobility services such as Bike sharing and Car sharing.\n\n\nIn some other pilot projects, as is the case for the Piazza Telematica of the Municipality of Provaglio d'Iseo, the term Piazza Telematica is used in order to evoke a virtual space on the Internet open to all citizens for the exchange of ideas, proposals and participation, through forum and other web instruments, to the socio-cultural and economic life of the community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "439821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=439821", "title": "Polar drift", "text": "Polar drift\n\nPolar drift is a geological phenomenon caused by variations in the flow of molten iron in Earth's outer core, resulting in changes in the orientation of Earth's magnetic field, and hence the position of the magnetic north and south poles.\n\nThe North Magnetic Pole is approximately from the geographic north pole. The pole drifts considerably each day, and since 2007 it moves about per year as a result of this phenomenon.\n\nThe South Magnetic Pole is constantly shifting due to changes in the Earth's magnetic field.\nAs of 2005 it was calculated to lie at , placing it off the coast of Antarctica, between Adelie Land and Wilkes Land. In 2015 it lay at (est). That point lies outside the Antarctic Circle and it is moving northwest by about per year. Its current distance from the actual Geographic South Pole is approximately . The nearest permanent science station is Dumont d'Urville Station. Wilkes Land contains a large gravitational mass concentration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43756597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43756597", "title": "Repetition method", "text": "Repetition method\n\nIn surveying, the repetition method is used to improve precision and accuracy of measurements of horizontal angles. The same angle is measured multiple times, with the survey instrument rotated so that systematic errors tend to cancel. The arithmetic mean of these observations gives true value of an angle. The precision of the measurement can exceed the least count of the instrument. used.\n\nThe repetition method is used when high accuracy is required. For rough or approximate survey work, the ordinary method of measuring horizontal angles is used as it is less time consuming.\n\n"}
{"id": "9706993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9706993", "title": "Sengupathi Falls", "text": "Sengupathi Falls\n\nSengupathi Falls are situated from Coimbatore city\non the Coimbatore - Siruvani Road.\n\nOther interesting projects/places nearby are Parambikulam, Aliyar, Sholiyar, Palar rivers and Anaimalai Hills range. Siruvani Waterfalls is not too far from this place.\n"}
{"id": "240852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240852", "title": "Shrubbery", "text": "Shrubbery\n\nA shrubbery is a wide border to a garden where shrubs are thickly planted, or a similar larger area with a path winding through it. A singular shrub is also known as a bush.\n\nA shrubbery was a feature of 19th-century gardens in the English manner, with its origins in the gardenesque style of the early part of the century. A shrubbery was a collection of hardy shrubs, quite distinct from a flower garden, which was a cutting garden to supply flowers in the house. The shrubbery was arranged as a walk, ideally a winding one, that made a circuit that brought the walker back to the terrace of the house. Its paths were gravel, so that they dried quickly after a rain. A walk in the shrubbery offered a chance for a private conversation, and a winding walk among shrubs surrounding even quite a small lawn was a feature of the garden behind a well-furnished Regency suburban villa.\n\n\"Mr Rushworth,\" said Lady Bertram, \"if I were you, I would have a very pretty shrubbery. One likes to get out into a shrubbery in fine weather.\" —Jane Austen, \"Mansfield Park\" (1814).\n\nIn the 1980s John Nash's never-executed plans for the garden setting of the Brighton Pavilion, illustrated in Nash's volume \"Views of the Royal Pavilion\" (1826), were finally carried out in connection with the extensive restorations of the Pavilion itself. Its \"fairly open landscape of soft lawns dotted with trees and set with lightly-wooded, sinuous shrubberies\" are best illustrated in Augustus Charles Pugin's watercolor view c. 1822 of the west front of the Pavilion, reproduced in Nash's publication. The winding perimeter walk circling the lawn among the shrubs and trees, enriched with island beds of herbaceous perennials, began to be laid out in 1814, with a flush of activity 1817-21. Two books of commentaries proved indispensable for the replanting scheme. One was Henry Phillips, who wrote in 1823\nThe shrubbery is a style of pleasure-garden which seems to owe its creation to the idea that our sublime poet formed of Eden. It originated in England and is as peculiar to the British nation as landscape planting.\n\nThe formulas for arranging a shrubbery were founded on contemporary painterly requirements for the Picturesque; judicious contrast and variety were essential, but Philips seems to have been among the first garden writers to notice that yellowish-green leaves in the foreground seem to throw bluish green-leaved shrubs deeper into a perceived distance. The desirable undulations of paths and islands and bands of shrub plantings would ideally undulate in elevation too: \"break up the level by throwing up elevations,' Philips suggested, \"so as to answer the double purpose of obscuring private walks and screening other parts from the wind.\"\n\nNash was at work also on the public parks of London, devising the shrubberies of Regent's Park and of St. James's Park, where the German visitor Prince Pückler-Muskau discerned that\nMr Nash ... masses the shrubs more closely together, allows the grass to disappear in wide sweeps under the plants or lets it run along the edges of the shrubs without trimming them ... hence they soon develop into a thicket that gracefully bends over the lawn without showing anywhere a sharply defined outline\n\nSuch precise effects were made immeasurably simpler by the invention in 1827 by the English engineer Edwin Beard Budding of the rotary lawn mower, an extrapolation of machinery commonly used to cut velvet pile.\n\nAfter the turn of the new century Gertrude Jekyll offered a chapter of suggestions for \"Wood and Shrubbery Edges\" in \"Colour Schemes for the Flower Garden\" (London, 1908) in which her descriptions were based on her own garden at Munstead Wood, south of Godalming, Surrey, but her shrubbery and hardy perennial plantings were designed to soften transitions: \"Where woodland joins garden ground there is often a sudden jolt; the wood ends with a hard line, sometimes with a path along it, accentuating the defect.\" In the expansive space of even a small Edwardian garden, Miss Jekyll recommended a space \"from twenty-five to forty feet\" planted so as to bring wood and garden into harmony, \"so planted as to belong equally to garden and wood.\" Rhododendrons were the stand-by in these shrub belts, combined with ferns, wood-rush, lilies, white foxgloves and white columbines.\n\n"}
{"id": "10729265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10729265", "title": "Shyamoli", "text": "Shyamoli\n\nShyamoli () is a locality in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh. It is to the northweset of Agargaon, neighbour of the Kallyanpur.\n\nShaymoli is a busy area of Dhaka. The previous landmark Shaymoli cinema hall is destroyed and recently a shopping mall has emerged on its place, named Shaymoli Square.It is the largest shopping mall of Shyamoli.\n"}
{"id": "32181655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32181655", "title": "Sustainable land management", "text": "Sustainable land management\n\nSustainable land management (SLM) refers to practices and technologies that aim to integrate the management of land, water, biodiversity, and other environmental resources to meet human needs while ensuring the long-term sustainability of ecosystem services and livelihoods. The term sustainable land management is used, for example, in regional planning and soil or environmental protection, as well as in property and estate management.\n\nThe World Bank defines sustainable land management as a process in a charged environment between environmental protection and the guarantee claim of ecosystem services on the one hand. On the other hand, it is about productivity of agriculture and forestry with respect to demographic growth and increasing pressure in land use.\nThe United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) applies the term in a much wider context. Besides agriculture and forestry they include the mineral extraction sector, property and estate management.\n\nIn the course of national politics and programmes, few European states use the terminology \"sustainable land management\". Here Australia and New Zealand are to be mentioned, as both countries have agreed on sustainable land management with respect to climate change as part of their government programmes.\n\nIn the European context, the definition of the European Network for Land Use Management for Sustainable European Cities (LUMASEC) may be used as a reference. It emphasizes the inter- and transdisciplinary cooperation on sustainable land management: \n\nSince 2010, the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) funds an international research program on \"sustainable land management\". Module A of the program investigates interactions between land management, climate change, and ecosystem services. It includes projects operating in South America, Africa, Europe, Central Asia, and South Asia. Module B seeks \"innovative system solutions\" in 13 projects with a Central European focus.\n\nFurthermore, the Economics of Land Degradation (ELD) Initiative seeks to establish a cost benefit analysis on the practice of sustainable land management highlighting its economic benefits. This economic analysis will enable decision makers to take appropriate measures combat land degradation globally. Additionally, the Initiative supports regional case studies focusing on Africa and Central Asia.\n\n\n"}
