{"id": "35128490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35128490", "title": "2012 fiscal austerity in Argentina", "text": "2012 fiscal austerity in Argentina\n\nArgentina began a period of fiscal austerity in 2012, dubbed \"Sintonía fina\" () by the government. It included increases in several utility and public service rates, limits on wage raises, limits on imports, and a reorganization of state enterprises. \n\nThe administration of Néstor Kirchner and of his wife and successor, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, had imposed price controls on utilities and public services, at levels cheaper than needed by service providers, since 2003. The state had provided subsidies to the service providers, compensating their losses. Fiscal austerity policies enacted early in 2012 removed many of these subsidies, however, leading to huge rate and fare increases. The removal of subsidies in the case of utility rates was done initially on a case-by-case basis, and by inviting people to voluntarily forfeit the subsidies by filling out a form; several politicians and other famous people did so. They were then removed for wealthy neighborhoods, and while rates were maintained in lower income districts, the increases were eventually extended to most people. Several unions requested wage raises in accordance to these increases and to high inflation generally; the rate and fare increases would cost up to 80% of the amount of the wage raises, however.\n\nThe increase in rates - up to 300% - has no similar precedent in recent Argentine history, save for those enacted by Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo more than a decade before.\n\nInflation rates published by independent sources are very high, although INDEC, which is controlled by the presidency, publishes lower inflation rates. High inflation, in turn, has prompted trade unions in Argentina to request frequent wage increases. The National Government endorsed collective bargaining wage raise guidelines of 24% in 2010 and 25% in 2011. The average wage hike obtained by unions was 5% higher than these figures, however, and the administration's austerity guideline for 18% raises in 2012 was similarly flouted by subsequent collective bargaining agreements, which averaged nearly 25%. Hugo Moyano, head of the General Confederation of Labor (CGT), opposed the new, more moderate guidelines, and joined forces with a longtime rival, Restaurant Workers Union head Luis Barrionuevo, to pursue requests for higher raises. Antonio Caló of the Steel and Metalworkers Union (UOM) and Sergio Palazzo of the Bank Employees Union did likewise, announcing sectoral strikes in May to seek a 25% increase. \n\nSeeking to reverse a decline in foreign exchange reserves caused by the emergence of a negative current account balance in 2011, Commerce Secretary Guillermo Moreno enacted measures to prevent the purchase of U.S. dollars and to curtail imports. Several sectors of the Argentine economy, such as resellers and manufacturers that work with imported items, were harmed by these policies. Moreno stipulated that importers export at least as much as they import, and several firms were threatened with expropriation upon failure to do so. He organized a system, independent of the National Customs, to personally oversee the requests for imports; more than half of import requests filed under the new system were denied. This action generated diplomatic tension and commercial disputes with Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru.\n\nThe Buenos Aires Metro had been subsidized as well; instead of removing these subsidies directly as was done with other services, however, the National Government proposed the subways' transfer to the City of Buenos Aires. Mayor Mauricio Macri initially accepted, but further differences arose. The National Government intended to transfer the subways without the subsidized budget needed to operate them, and the city had already passed a municipal budget for 2012 which did not consider these added costs. The 2012 Buenos Aires rail disaster generated concern about the conditions of railways and subways, moreover. The city administration considered that without the transfer of subsidies the city's economy would be harmed, and that the administration's conditions regarding these were an imposition. The National Government sent a bill to Congress to approve the transfer, and Macri did similarly with the City Legislature; both must approve the transfer to confirm it.\n\nChanges related to the 2012 fiscal austerity measures, as well as the government's April 2012 seizure of the country's largest oil-and-gas corporation, YPF, also had a pronounced effect on currency trading for both institutions as well as individuals wanting to buy or sell pesos. Following the tightening of foreign export controls and import restrictions, in early 2012 a widening gulf emerged between the official peso-dollar exchange rate and the blue-chip swap rate, indicating a much weaker sentiment on the value of the peso relative to the U.S. dollar than the official exchange rate suggested. For tourists and local residents wanting to exchange dollars for pesos (or vice versa), it meant an active black market centered around Florida Street, where the peso could be traded for a lower value than the official exchange rate, which sees almost daily intervention from Argentina's central bank designed to slow its perceived weakening relative to the dollar. 2012's reforms, instead of having the intended effect of holding down interest rates and spurring economic recovery, ended up causing an immediate and sustained flight of capital from the traditional banking system into a robust underground economy.\n"}
{"id": "3855385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3855385", "title": "Albanian Subversion", "text": "Albanian Subversion\n\nThe Albanian Subversion () is one of the earliest and most notable failures of the Western covert paramilitary operations in the Eastern Bloc. The British SIS and the American CIA launched a joint subversive operation, using as agents Albanian expatriates. Other anti-communist Albanians and many nationalists worked as agents for Greek, Italian and Yugoslav intelligence services, some supported by the UK and U.S. secret services. A Soviet mole, and, later, other spies tipped off the missions to Moscow, which in turn relayed the information to Albania. Consequently, many of the agents were caught, put on trial, and either shot or condemned to long prison terms at hard labor. \n\nThe Albanian subversion cost the lives of at least 300 men and for a long time was one of the most carefully concealed secrets of the Cold War. In 2006, some 2,300 pages of documents laying out major parts of the Albania Project under its two major cryptonyms, BGFIEND and OBOPUS, were declassified by a U.S. government interagency working group acting under the terms of the Nazi War Crimes Disclosure Act. These documents are available at the National Archives in College Park, Maryland.\n\nThe reason behind the operation in Albania was that Albania was separated from the Eastern Bloc by Yugoslavia, which had split with the Soviet Union in June 1948. Albania was also the poorest European nation, and was home to about one million people, many still divided along semi-feudal and (especially in remote areas) tribal lines. There were three major religious groups and two distinct classes: those people who owned land and claimed feudal privileges and those who did not. The landowners, only about 1% of the population, held 95% of the cultivated land as well as the principal ruling posts in the country's central and southern regions.\n\nDuring World War II, the Albanian society was split into several amorphous groups: nationalists, communists, royalists, traditionalists - the latter both tribal and feudal in nature. It was the Communist-led National Liberation Front that emerged victorious, mainly due to the ideological discipline instilled in their troops, but also because they were the only force which had consistently fought the Italians and Germans; many nationalists and the royalists had collaborated with Italian or German occupiers during the war.\n\nHowever, Albania was in an unenviable position after World War II. Greece hungered for Albanian lands it claimed, while Yugoslavia wanted Albania merged into a Balkan confederation. The Allies recognized neither King Zog nor a republican government-in-exile, nor did they ever raise the question of Albania or its borders at major wartime conferences. No reliable statistics on Albania's wartime losses exist, but the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration reported about 30,000 Albanian dead from the war, 200 destroyed villages, 18,000 destroyed houses, and about 100,000 people made homeless, numbers whose significance is further compounded by the relatively small population of Albania: approximately 1,000,000 in 1938. Albanian official statistics claim somewhat higher losses.\n\nIn this post-war chaos of 1949 the allies decided to launch their operation. The plan called for parachute drops of royalists into the Mati region in Central Albania. The region was traditionally known as a bastion of Albanian traditionalism and moreover praised for their loyalty to King Zog, himself an offspring of one of the regional clans. The original plan was that, if Britain could parachute in enough well-trained agents, they could organize a massive popular revolt, which the allies would supply by air drops. In time, this revolt would spill out a civil war. The trouble that this would cause the Soviet politics was considered by the British to be worth the risk, and if it did succeed, then it could be the starting point of a chain reaction of popular revolutions throughout the Eastern Bloc. The project appeared so appealing that the Secret Intelligence Service (SIS) had no hesitation in putting in into operation. It was run in detail by an agent who had come into SIS and Special Operations Executive (SOE). The chief of SIS, Stewart Menzies, was not enthusiastic about the paramilitary operation but saw it as a way to appease the former SOE “stinks and bangs people.”\n\nIn addition, the British wanted the United States to finance the operation and to provide bases. Senior British intelligence officer William Hayter, who chaired the Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC), came to Washington, D.C. in March with a group of Secret Intelligence Service members and Foreign Office staff that included Gladwyn Jebb, Earl Jellicoe, and Peter Dwyer of SIS and a Balkans specialist. Joined by SIS Washington liaison Harold Adrian 'Kim' Philby, they met with Robert Joyce of the US State Department’s Policy and Planning Staff (PPS) and Frank Wisner, who was the head of the Office of Policy Coordination (OPC), and other U.S. intelligence officials such as James McCargar and Franklin Lindsay. McCargar was assigned to liaise with Philby on joint operational matters. Unbeknownst to the SIS and CIA, though, Philby was a communist, and spy for Soviet foreign intelligence.\n\nThere was no scarcity of anti-communist Albanians and the recruiters promptly found them in the Displaced Persons camps in Greece, Italy, and Turkey. The manpower recruitment for what the British codenamed VALUABLE Project and the Americans FIEND, consisted of 40% from the Balli Kombëtar (BK) National Front, an organization formed during World War II on a nationalist program committed to creating a Greater Albania; 40% from the monarchist movement, known as Legaliteti; and the rest from other Albanian factions.\n\nA dozen Albanian emigrés were recruited and taken to Libya to train for a pilot project that would become known as Operation Valuable (It is not clear exactly when MI6 assigned the VALUABLE cryptonym to the Albanian effort). The SIS, with U.S. Army Col. 'Ace' Miller as a liaison, trained these men in the use of weapons, codes and radio, the techniques of subversion and sabotage. They were dropped into the mountains of Mati throughout 1947, but failed to impress the inhabitants of the region into a larger revolt. The operation dragged on until 1949. There were sabotage attempts on the Kucova oilfields and the copper mines in Rubik but no real success in raising a revolt. Then, the US government weighing up the political situation, decided to lend a hand. In September 1949, British foreign secretary Ernest Bevin went to Washington, D.C. to discuss Operation Valuable with US government officials. The CIA released a report that concluded that “a purely internal Albanian uprising at this time is not indicated, and, if undertaken, would have little chance of success.” The CIA asserted that the Enver Hoxha regime had a 65,000 man regular army and a security force of 15,000. There were intelligence reports that there were 1,500 Soviet “advisers” and 4,000 “technicians” in Albania helping to train the Albanian Army.\n\nBritish and U.S. naval officials were concerned that the USSR was building a submarine base at the Karaburun Peninsula near the port of Vlora. On September 6, 1949, when NATO met for the first time in Washington, Bevin proposed that “a counter-revolution” be launched in Albania. US Secretary of State Dean Acheson was in agreement. NATO, established as a defensive military alliance for Western Europe and North America, was now committed to launching offensive covert operations against a sovereign nation in the Balkans. The U.S. and UK, joining with their weak allies, Italy and Greece, agreed to support the overthrow of the Hoxha regime in Albania and to eliminate Soviet influence in the Mediterranean region. Bevin wanted to place King Zog on the throne as the leader of Albania once Hoxha was overthrown.\n\nThis time a better class of commando was sought so an approach was made to King Zog in exile in Cairo to recommend men for the job. But British negotiator Neil 'Billy' McLean and American representatives Robert Miner and Robert Low were unable to bring Zog in because no one would name him head of a provisional government in exile. In August 1949, an announcement was made in Paris that Albanian political exiles had formed a multiparty committee to foment anticommunist rebellion in the homeland; actually the \"Free Albania\" National Committee was created by American diplomatic and intelligence officials for political cover to a covert paramilitary project, with British concurrence. The British made the first organizational move, hiring on as chief trainer Major David Smiley, deputy commander of a cavalry (tank) regiment stationed in Germany. Already agreed with McLean and his cohort, Julian Amery, to supply 30 Albanian emigres as recruits for the operation to penetrate Albania were leaders of the Balli Kombetar, an exile political group whose key policy was to replace the Albanian Communist regime with a non-royalist government.\nIn July 1949, the first group of 30 Albanian recruits, some veterans of World War II guerrilla and civil wars, were recruited by Balli Kombetar leaders and transported by British special operations personnel to Fort Binġemma, on the British island colony of Malta. Labeled as \"The Pixies\" by the SIS, the Pixies spent two months training as radio operators, intelligence gatherers, and more sophisticated guerrillas than they had been as members of cetas (guerrilla bands) during World War II. On September 26, 1949, nine Pixies boarded a British Navy trawler which sailed north; three days later, a Greek style fishing boat, known as a caique and named \"Stormie Seas', sailed from Malta.\n\nWith a stop at an Italian port, the two vessels sailed October 3, rendezvoused at a point in the Adriatic Sea, and transferred the Albanians to the caique. Hours later that same night, the Pixies landed on the Albanian coast, some south of Vlora, which was the former territory of the Balli Kombetar, others further north. This was the start of Operation Valuable. Albanian government security forces soon interdicted one of the two groups into which the commandos had split. The Communists killed three members of the first group, and a fourth man with the second group. The first three deaths and disappearance of a fourth man to join his family wiped out one group, while the surviving four from the first 1949 covert landing exfiltrated south to Greece.\n\nFor two years after this landing, small groups of British-trained Albanians left every so often from training camps in Malta and Britain and Germany. Most of the entire series of operations was a disaster, with Albanian security forces interdicting many of the insurgents. Occasionally, the Albanian authorities would report on “large but unsuccessful infiltrations of enemies of the people” in several regions of the country. It must also be pointed out that some British, Italian, and Greek agents infiltrated Albania two, three and four times each, a pattern that followed Albanian exiles who worked as intelligence gatherers for the Italian Navy. Some American agents, originally trained by Italian or Greek officials, also infiltrated by air, sea, or afoot on more than two occasions, to gather intelligence rather than take part in political or paramilitary operations.\n\nThe last infiltration took place a few weeks before Easter 1952. In a desperate effort to discover what was going on Captain Shehu himself, with Captain Branica and radio operator Tahir Prenci, were guided by veteran gendarme and guerrilla fighter Hamit Matjani and three armed guards to the Mati region northeast of Tirana, the region once home to Albania's ex-King Zog. Albanian security forces militia were waiting for them at their rendezvous point, a house owned by Shehu’s cousin, a known supporter of Zog. The militia forced Shehu’s operator to transmit an all clear signal to his base in Cyprus. The operator had been schooled to deal with such situations by using a fail-safe drill which involved broadcasting in a way that warned it was being sent under duress and therefore should be disregarded. But the militia seemed to know the drill. The all clear signal went out and, nearly a year later, four more top agents, including Matjani himself, parachuted into an ambush at Shen Gjergj (Saint George), near the town of Elbasan. The Albanian army was waiting in a big circle, guns cocked, and the guerrillas landed in the middle of it. No one surrendered. Those not killed were tried in April 1954.\n\nIn the 2009 RTÉ (Irish) television programme \"Who Do You Think You Are?\" British Colonel Charles Davison's wife Maeve Davison ( née de Burgh - mother of Chris de Burgh) reveals that Davison was posted to Malta in the early 1950s. When asked what the posting involved, Maeve replies \"He was offered a posting in Malta. It was officially Army work but in fact it was intelligence work. He was training agents to be put into Albania. And he was teaching them how to... blow things up and generally cause lots of destruction.\"\nMrs. Davison wrote a letter on 21 May 1952 telling the Army that Col Davison was no longer interested in a job he had been inquiring about because he had already left for another posting. The letter is contained in Davison's official war records and was shown on the programme. The location of the posting is not stated in the letter but when questioned about where it was, Maeve Davison confirms it was Malta. Maeve Davison says she joined her husband in Malta and acted as a cypher clerk - encoding and decoding messages about the operations and forwarding them to London. Her letter and comments on the programme indicate the British operation did not cease but continued on Malta in 1952 and later under Colonel Charles Davison.\n\nShehu, Sufa, Matjani and others were put on trial, which found all guilty as charged. Shehu, Sula and the royal guards were to be shot, Matjani to be hanged. Many of the local inhabitants who were suspected of having helped the guerrillas, were jailed or forcibly located elsewhere in Albania. Whatever remained of the anticommunist resistance was virtually erased.\n\nThose guerrillas who survived had no doubt they were betrayed: “Police were always waiting when a boat came ashore. How could they know where the boats would come unless a traitor would have told them? Also, people who had been our friends when we left Albania were often no longer our friends when we went back.”\n\nUp to 300 agents and civilians who helped them were likely killed during the operation. Abaz Ermenji, co-founder of Balli Kombetar (BK) stated: “Our ‘allies’ wanted to make use of Albania as a guinea-pig, without caring about the human losses, for an absurd enterprise that was condemned to failure.” Halil Nerguti stated: “We were used as an experiment. We were a small part of a big game, pawns that could be sacrificed.” There is no question that the CIA and MI6 used the operation as a small-scale exercise in regime change. The stakes were small. Failure would not be noticed. John H. Richardson Sr, Director of the CIA's South-East Division, terminated Operation Fiend. By 1954, Company 4000's 120 members focused on guarding a United States Air Force chemical weapons dump south of Munich; CIA training facilities outside Heidelberg, Germany shut down, as did a CIA base on a Greek island. Over time, the remaining Albanians were resettled in the US, UK, and the Commonwealth countries.\n\nDuring the summer of 1993, one of the ex-American agents, Shaqir Kabashi, an ethnic Albanian from Kosovo, traveled to Albania in hopes of finding skeletonized remains of his brother. He believed the sibling had been shot to death during a 1951 covert operation for the U.S. OPC. The story Kabashi had been told by an Albanian newly emigrated to the U.S. was that remains of CIA agents were buried on a hillside near the city of Fier. Using a good amount of his own retirement money, Kabashi recruited a gang of men from a nearby village, who dug several pits in a hillside meadow. Human remains were found in one pit, Kabashi later told a Reuters stringer. Firmly persuaded he had his brother's remains, Shaqir had most of the skeletons buried in a courtyard of a newarby mosque. He carried a few samples of bones on his flight back to the U.S. But despite suggestions that he seek U.S. Government aid in getting DNA analysis, Shaqir died in November 1997 without confirming he had found his late brother.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33719674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33719674", "title": "Americans for Truth about Homosexuality", "text": "Americans for Truth about Homosexuality\n\nAmericans for Truth about Homosexuality (AFTAH) is an organization which describes its mission as \"exposing the homosexual activist agenda\". AFTAH rejects the idea that sexual orientation is inborn and believes that people can \"leave the homosexual lifestyle\". AFTAH contends that there is a fundamental conflict between gay rights and religious freedom. It is designated as an anti-gay hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC).\n\nAFTAH was formed as a part-time enterprise in 1996 to oppose the \"radical homosexual agenda.\" It was reorganized in 2006 by Peter LaBarbera. It was a 501(c)3 United States tax-exempt organization until stripped of that designation in 2010, following years of failing to file the appropriate paperwork. AFTAH's tax exempt status was reinstated in 2012 but again revoked in 2015.\n\nIn 1997, LaBarbera, then an editor for the Family Research Council, criticized US President Bill Clinton for supporting the Employment Non-Discrimination Act (ENDA) stating: \"He's out there using his presidential power to boost the gay lobby. I think there is an increasing acceptance [of homosexuality], but the majority of Americans are put off by the kind of homosexual advocacy they are seeing.\"\n\nIn 2009, AFTAH filed a lawsuit in US Federal Court against a Naperville, Illinois, Holiday Inn Select, because of the cancellation of a banquet the AFTAH planned to hold October 6, 2007, at the hotel. The hotel cancelled the AFTAH event after learning that it would likely draw protests from the Chicago-based Gay Liberation Network. That same year, LaBarbera, while speaking at the Reclaiming Oklahoma for Christ Conference, called for a government study of the dangers of homosexual sex.\n\nIn 2010, AFTAH was designated as an anti-gay hate group by the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) for spreading \"hateful propaganda\", and claiming that homosexuality can be \"cured\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5127882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5127882", "title": "Antifaschistische Aktion", "text": "Antifaschistische Aktion\n\nAntifaschistische Aktion (), abbreviated as Antifa (), is an anti-fascist network in Germany.\n\nThe first German movement to call itself \"Antifaschistische Aktion\" was proclaimed by the German Communist Party (KPD) in their newspaper \"Rote Fahne\" in 1932 and held its first rally in Berlin on 10 July 1932, then capital of the Weimar Republic. Its two-flag logo, designed by Association of Revolutionary Visual Artists members Max Keilson and Max Gebhard, remains a widely used symbol of militant anti-fascism.\n\nThe late 1920s and early 1930s saw rising tensions between Nazis and leftists. Berlin in particular was the site of regular and often very violent clashes between the two groups. There were several Nazi and anti-Nazi paramilitary groups. On the anti-Nazi side, these included the Social Democrat-dominated Reichsbanner Schwarz-Rot-Gold (formed in 1924), the Communist paramilitary and propaganda organisation Roter Frontkämpferbund (Red Front Fighters League or RFB, formed in 1924) and the Communist Kampfbund gegen den Faschismus (Fighting-Alliance against Fascism, formed in 1930). In late 1931, the local \"Roter Massenselbstschutz\" (Red Mass Self-Defence, RMSS) units were formed by Kampfbund members as autonomous and loosely organised structures under the leadership of, but outside the formal organisation of, the KPD, as part of the party's united front policy to work with other working class groups to defeat fascism. In May 1932, the Roter Frontkämpferbund had been banned and, following a skirmish between Nazi and Communist members in the parliament, Antifaschistische Aktion was formed as a broad-based alliance in which Social Democrats, Communists and others could fight legal repression and engage in self-defence against Nazi paramilitaries. \n\nThe RMSS units were absorbed into Antifaschistische Aktion, forming the nuclei of the latter's \"Unity Committees\", organised on a micro-local basis, e.g. in apartment buildings, factories or allotments. \n\nAs well as fighting fascists, the RMSS and Antifaschistische Aktion used their militant approach to develop a comprehensive network of self-defence for communities targeted by the nazis, for example in \"tenant protection\" (Mieterschutz), action against evictions. Initially the RMSS units had minimal formal membership, but in the second half of 1932, local executive boards were created to co-ordinate the activities of the KPD, Kampfbund, RMSS and (now illegal) RFB, with the RMSS given a more distinct and almost paramilitary defence role, often co-operating on an ad hoc basis with the Reichsbanner. \n\nAfter the forced dissolution in the wake of the Machtergreifung in 1933, the movement went underground.\n\nGroups called \"Antifaschistische Ausschüsse\", \"Antifaschistische Kommittees\" or \"Antifaschistische Aktion\", all typically abbreviated to Antifa, spontaneously re-emerged in Germany in 1944, mainly involving veterans of pre-war KPD, KPO and SPD politics, as well as some members of other democratic political parties and Christians who opposed the Nazi régime. In 1945, for example, the antifascist committee in the city of Olbernhau included \"three Communists and three Social Democrats\" while the antifascist committee in Leipzig \"had nine members, including three liberals and progressive Christians\".\n\nIn the French, British, and American zones, Antifas began to recede by the late summer of 1945, marginalized by Allied bans on political organization and by re-emerging divisions within the movement between Communists and others, while in East Germany the Antifa groups were absorbed into the new Stalinist state. On 11 July 1945, the Soviets permitted the formation of the \"United Front of the Antifascist-Democratic Parties\", which included representatives from the \"communist KPD, the Social Democratic SPD, the Christian Democratic Union (CDU), and the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP)\".\n\nContemporary Antifa in Germany \"has no practical historical connection to the movement from which it takes its name, but is instead a product of West Germany's squatter scene and autonomist movement in the 1980s\". Many new Antifa groups formed from the late 1980s onwards. One of the biggest antifascist campaigns in Germany in recent years was the, ultimately successful, effort to block the annual Nazi-rallies in the east German city of Dresden in Saxony, which had grown into \"Europe's biggest gathering of Nazis\".\n\nIn October 2016, the Antifa in Dresden campaigned on the occasion of the anniversary of the reunification of Germany on 3 October for \"turning Unity celebrations into a disaster\" („Einheitsfeierlichkeiten zum Desaster machen“), to protest this display of new German nationalism, whilst explicitly not ruling out the use of violence.\n\nThe American Antifa of the early 21st-century has drawn its aesthetics and some of its tactics from the original German organization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14722062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14722062", "title": "Article 49 of the French Constitution", "text": "Article 49 of the French Constitution\n\nArticle 49 of the French Constitution is an article of the French Constitution, the fundamental law of the French Fifth Republic. It sets out the political responsibility of the government (the executive power) before the parliament (legislative power). It is part of Title V: \"On the relations between the parliament and the government\" (articles 34 to 51). \n\nThe article, which comprises four paragraphs, is designed to prevent ministerial crises like those that occurred in France under the Fourth Republic. Its best-known provision is the third paragraph (article 49.3), which allow the government to force passage of a bill without a vote unless the parliament votes a motion of no confidence to veto the government (\"commitment of responsibility\").\n\nThe Constitutional Law adopted on 21 July 2008 amended article 49 of the Constitution. The new text came into force on 1 March 2009. Before that date, the prime minister could use the procedure of paragraph 3 without any limit on all draft bills; since then, it can be used at most once per session, except for draft bills on public finances or the funding of Social Security (annual budget laws).\n\nAccording to a report by the National Assembly, section 3 may be implemented both during a regular session or a special session. In case of change of prime minister during the same session, the second will have this option even if the first has already used it. In addition, it may be used on several successive readings of the same text.\n\nOn 27 August 1958 Michel Debré, then the Minister of Justice and one of the principal drafters of the Constitution, introduced the draft before the General Assembly of the Council of State. Section 49 was mentioned in a brief passage that exposed its spirit and motivations:\n\nDuring his press conference on 31 January 1964, General de Gaulle returned to the topic of the functioning of the institutions. His reading gave the president of the republic a primacy that goes well beyond the letter of the constitution, but which is often consistent with the practice. He addressed, among other topics, the issue of the motion of no confidence:\n\nThe first paragraph allows the prime minister to commit the responsibility of his government before the National Assembly by putting forward a motion of confidence. As stated in article 50, a negative vote (with a simple majority, in contrast to the two following paragraphs, which protect the executive to a greater extent) leads to a resignation of the government. Its meaning is sometimes imprecise, and therefore its interpretation is disputed, particularly concerning the obligatory or optional character of this commitment. In practice it is viewed as optional, and the presidential post retains a clear supremacy. Thus, the motion of confidence is an arm at the disposition of the government alone. The political benefit which it can obtain remains limited: even if the motion of confidence is still an important parliamentary tradition that can sometimes bring it advantages in its relation with the parliament as well as with the public opinion, a government not supported by a majority can abandon it without great inconvenience.\n\nThe word \"engage\" (to commit, or to \"make [something] an issue\") in Section 49.1 is particularly subject to controversy. It can be interpreted as an obligation, typical of parliamentary regimes, or simply an option, a privilege of the separation of powers and the prerogatives of the president. Two other elements are subject to discussion but are of much less consequence: deliberation in the Cabinet (\"Conseil des ministres\") and the distinction between a \"program\" and a \"declaration of general policy\".\n\nParliamentary regimes customarily induct the prime minister or the government by the parliament or by the lower chamber of the parliament. For example, the Constitution of Italy states that \"The government has to appear before each chamber no later than ten days after its appointment to get a vote of confidence\" (94.3). The Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany provides for the election of the chancellor by the Bundestag (the lower house of the German parliament). The Constitution of the Fourth Republic of France also stated that \"the president of the Cabinet and the ministers cannot be nominated until after the president of the cabinet has been invested with the confidence of the assembly\" (article 45), and the practice of the Third Republic was identical. It is usual in French law for the simple present indicative to connote a requirement and not a simple option: \"engage\" means \"must commit\" and not \"may commit\". The word \"éventuellement\" (\"possibly\") in the declaration of general policy and the phrase \"peut engager\" (\"may commit\") in section 3 reinforce the obligatory nature of the commitment to a program, which lacks this phrasing.\n\nNevertheless, the government exists by the order of its nomination through the president of the Republic (article 8), without reference to a possible investiture by the assembly. Article 20 makes clear, by referring to articles 49 and 50, that the president is responsible before the parliament, but the constitution does not attach conditions to any of his powers regarding his \"commitment of responsibility\", and even when it is required, no deadline is fixed to limit the obligation, which in reality is comes down to a moral decision. The interpretation of the clause as being optional is also that which Michel Debré made in front of the Conseil d'État, even before the adoption of the constitution: \"the weapon of the government and of it alone\". But in his first speech of general policy, he said on this topic that \"the text does not say explicitly that he must do it, but the spirit of the Constitution is clear.\" This difficulty with regards to the connotation of the indicative mood is not the only semantic issue affecting the Constitution; one could bring up the debate of 1960 about article 29, \"Parliament shall convene in extraordinary session, at the request of the prime minister or of the majority of the members of the National Assembly, to consider a specific agenda.\" and the quarrel in 1986 about article 13: \"The president of the republic shall sign the ordinances...\"\n\nThe text mentions the requirement of deliberation in the Cabinet, and the doctrine was questioned to find out if the term implied the agreement of the Cabinet or simply discussion, which would in that case leave the decision to the prime minister alone. The \"gouvernements\" have always spoken of authorization or of the agreement of the Cabinet. This phrasing has the additional advantage of solidifying the optional interpretation of the commitment of responsibility, since the prime minister could hardly be required to commit the responsibility of the government and prevented from doing it without the agreement of the Cabinet. The Constitutional Council validated the commitment of the responsibility of the government (in section 3) by the phrasing \"to the extent that the Cabinet had deliberated [...] the commitment of responsility\" without mentioning authorization. Since the \"gouvernements\" of the Fifth Republic had always been strongly united and superior to those of prior coalitions' \"gouvernements\", the question of a possible disagreement between the prime minister and the Cabinet remains theoretical. In any case, this deliberation does not give the president, especially in a period of \"cohabitation\", the power to prevent the commitment of his responsibility, except in the improbable case of a refusal to enter the question on the agenda of the Cabinet.\n\nLastly, there is the distinction between a \"program\" and a \"declaration of general policy\". If the former can be understood as a catalogue of the principal arrangements that the government hopes to make, probably as soon as it is established, in the logic of the investiture, and the latter as an explanation of its reasoning and of its intentions in a precise domain which would take—or to which the government would want to give—a particular importance, the distinction has no practical consequence. Certain prime ministers have used the expression \"declaration of general policy\" while they were speaking for the first time before the assembly. The Constitutional Council remarked incidentally that article 49 \"tends to confer an analogous meaning\" to the two terms.\n\nDe Gaulle in his Second Bayeux Speech (\"deuxième discours de Bayeux\" of 1946, when he explained his views on political institutions) did not want a \"parliamentary\" system, at least not in the monistic sense which had prevailed since the end of the 19th century: \"It goes without saying that the parliament, which is composed of two chambers and which exercises legislative power, cannot be the source of executive power.\" As an important concession, however, which averted a strictly presidential regime, the head of state must \"reconcile the general interest regarding the choice of the people with an orientation that is free from the parliament.\" The first governments of the Fifth Republic, those that set the precedent for later governments, committed their responsibility in front of the assembly after their appointment. They did this, however, always emphasizing that they proceeded from the president of the Republic and not the parliament, and that it was not an investiture. But after the presidential election of December 1965, Prime Minister Georges Pompidou, who became, once again, the head of a third government, waited for the opening of the common session of the parliament in April to present his program, making a simple declaration followed by a debate without a vote, and thus without a commitment of responsibility, although he had a solid parliamentary majority. Then, he stated that he wanted to create a precedent establishing the optional character of this commitment. After the general election of 1967, his fourth government had diminished to a narrow and uncertain majority, and he used the same solution.\n\nFrançois Mitterrand attacked the assembly, saying: Pompidou challenged the opposition to censure his government. The interruption of this practice persisted after the parliamentary dissolution of May 1968 even when the governments had found a crushing and disciplined majority in the parliament, showing that the practice is considered as optional (some commitments of responsibility did occur, but not immediately after the nomination of the governments). The practice was renewed in 1974 and afterwards was followed sporadically. It disappeared again between 1988 and 1993 when the socialist governments, whose support did not reach a majority in the parliament, no longer could resort to the vote of confidence except on a single specific occasion: while France was engaged in the Gulf War, Prime Minister Michel Rocard obtained very wide support in the assembly, but stated that: Lacking a guaranteed majority, it is preferable for the government to wait for a motion of no confidence described in part 2, the adoption of which is more difficult than a simple refusal of confidence. One category of government did, however, systematically require the confidence of, and almost investiture by, the Assembly upon coming into office: cohabitation governments. Those derive politically, if not legally, from the Assembly rather than from the President and must have its support; the regime thus functions in a more clearly parliamentary fashion.\n\nWhen introducing the motion of confidence in the National Assembly, the prime minister generally takes the opportunity to make an important political statement. This parliamentary ritual gives the motion some formality, which will be widely commented on by the media. For many years, it was the best format for making political policy speeches, that is, before the television interview appeared in its various forms offering alternatives. The speech is a mark of courtesy and deference to parliament. It allows the new prime minister to put forward his positions and pledge the soundness of his government. The refusal to make commitments is seen as an admission of the majority's weakness. Apart from the prime minister's nomination, the motion of confidence allows the government to deliver a new declaration on matters and events that may imposed themselves or on which the government wishes to give importance.\n\nOn the other hand, under the Fifth Republic, it no longer possible, as under the previous Republic or regimes, to attach motions of confidence to votes of law to force the assembly to vote on the combined motion and the law. Under former practices, the government could link its continuance to the adoption of the legal texts. The Fifth Republic provides for a much more powerful weapon with the paragraph 3 (see below).\n\nThe motion of confidence can also help the government in its relations with its majority in parliament. Voting on the motion can assure MPs worried about the unpopularity of their party if there is a clear victory in the National Assembly. It also can help rally MPs to stand-up to the opposition, and possibly force a critical coalition partner to renew its membership in the majority, as occurred with the RPR between 1976 and 1981 or the Communist Party between 1981 and 1986. However, the impact of the motion is often limited and does not often change the popularity of the government and its majority unless the prime minister delivers a highly successful speech. As for the reluctant coalition partner, it may vote to support the motion while expressing reservations and criticisms. In this regard, these reluctant MPs will become more bound by their vote since the text of the motion focuses on specific points, rather than on their general support of the government's policy, however, this does not prevent them from rejecting certain laws.\n\nLastly, the approval of the motion by the assembly does not strengthen the ability of the prime minister to stand-up to the president of the republic. Prime Minister Jacques Chaban-Delmas requested and received the confidence of the assembly on 24 May 1972, while clearly reaffirming that the government took its legitimacy from the president of the republic, who may at any time put an end to its functions. (In reality, the president appoints the government, but the government can be withdrawn only on presentation of the resignation of the prime minister). President Georges Pompidou had given his agreement to this commitment, noting that it was the prime minister's prerogative. (Some time later, he said: \"I was not in favor of that and that was known.\") Five weeks later, he asked for and obtained the resignation of Chaban-Delmas.\n\nA vote of no confidence (\"censure\") is a means for the National Assembly, on its own initiative, to force the government to resign. The vote's application and action by the parliament, in this regard, is an essential characteristic of any parliamentary system. De Gaulle, when inaugurated as prime minister under the Fourth Republic, promised he would include this procedure in the reform of the institutions. It was actually imposed by the Constitutional Law of 3 June 1958.\n\nIn the constitution, the government's responsibility is framed by devices that allow it to streamline the parliamentarian system to promote stability of government. However, it is difficult to ascribe actual stability of the governments with these technical measures. The strength is due to two other factors. First, if a vote of non-confidence is approved by the National Assembly, the government, instead of resigning, is likely to ask the president to dissolve the assembly to stop it from voting. On the other hand, the Fifth Republic has been characterized by the appearance of stable political parties and reliable electoral coalitions able to effectively support the government. All these elements have reduced no confidence votes by parliamentarians. To date, censure has passed only once.\n\nThis possibility, even unused, of the National Assembly to bring down the government has a deep impact on the workings of the institutions.\nWithout it, the French constitution would clearly define a presidential system, albeit with strong powers endowed to the executive branch by the constitution. For even without a majority in the National Assembly, the president would still be able to nominate a government to suit himself and thus hold all theirs powers\n\nLa possibilité pour l'Assemblée nationale de renverser le gouvernement, quand bien même elle n'est pas utilisée, a une influence profonde sur le fonctionnement des institutions. En effet, en son absence, le régime serait clairement de type présidentiel, avec de surcroît un exécutif particulièrement bien armé par la constitution. Dépourvu de majorité à l'Assemblée, le président de la République pourrait nommer quand même un gouvernement qui lui est favorable et disposer ainsi de tous ses pouvoirs soumis à contreseing (article 19), notamment celui de nomination (article 13), alors que le gouvernement aurait le pouvoir réglementaire (article 37), et les moyens considérables que lui offre la constitution dans ses relations avec le parlement (l'essentiel du titre V). À supposer qu'il ait en plus le soutien du Sénat, il pourrait bloquer toute initiative de l'Assemblée nationale qui n'a pas son accord ; à défaut, la gêner considérablement. Resterait l'impossibilité pour lui de faire voter les lois qu'il souhaite, et surtout la nécessité de parvenir tous les ans à un compromis avec l'Assemblée pour voter le budget. Il serait cependant beaucoup mieux armé face au parlement que ne l'est le président aux États-unis, archétype du régime présidentiel.\n\nAu contraire, par la menace de la motion de censure, la présence à l'Assemblée nationale d'une majorité hostile conduit le président de la République à nommer un gouvernement issu de cette majorité (« compatible », dit le discours de Bayeux), mode de fonctionnement des institutions nommé cohabitation depuis qu'il s'est produit pour la première fois en 1986 à l'issue des élections législatives. C'est alors ce gouvernement qui dispose de l'essentiel du pouvoir exécutif, et il peut s'appuyer sur sa majorité à l'Assemblée. L'article 49.2 impose donc la cohérence entre le gouvernement et la majorité parlementaire (pour autant qu'une telle majorité existe), caractéristique du régime parlementaire moderne, même si le chef de l'État y dispose de pouvoirs beaucoup plus étendus que dans les autres régimes européens.\n\nL'alinéa 2 s'attache, avec les moyens classiques du parlementarisme rationalisé, à rendre difficile tant le dépôt de la motion de censure que son adoption. Le but recherché est d'éviter l'instabilité gouvernementale et ainsi, « Qu'il existe un gouvernement qui soit fait pour gouverner, à qui on en laisse le temps et la possibilité » comme le dit de Gaulle dans son discours du 4 septembre 1958 Place de la République.\n\nLe dépôt est limité en imposant pour chaque motion de censure la signature d'un dixième au moins des députés, chacun ne pouvant en signer que trois pendant la session ordinaire de l'article 28 (avant la réforme constitutionnelle de 1995 sur la session unique, une seule motion pour chacune des deux sessions ordinaires de l'année), une par session extraordinaire de l'article 29. La portée de cette restriction est faible, l'opposition n'épuisant en général pas le nombre de motions autorisées. Sa conséquence la plus visible est s'il y a plusieurs oppositions, que les composantes les plus faibles (par example, le groupe du Front national entre 1986 et 1988) ne peuvent déposer de motion, faute d'atteindre la barre des 10% ; motion qui n'aurait eu de toutes façons guère de chances d'être adoptée.\n\nL'article s'attache aussi à compliquer l'adoption de la motion. Tout d'abord, un délai de quarante-huit heures doit s'écouler entre le dépôt de la motion et son vote. Lorsque le scrutin risque d'être serré, ces quarante-huit heures peuvent être mise à profit par le gouvernement pour convaincre quelques indécis de ne pas la voter. La constitution empêche ainsi le système de l'interpellation qui avait cours sous la III République, lorsqu'un seul député pouvait « interpeller » le gouvernement, et la Chambre voter après débat un texte qui, lorsqu'il était défavorable au gouvernement, entraînait son départ. La République prévoyait déjà un jour franc entre le dépôt de la motion et son vote.\nEnsuite, en imposant un vote en faveur de la motion par la majorité des membres de l'Assemblée. Ce qui signifie que pour être adoptée, plus de la moitié des députés en fonction (on ne compte pas les éventuels sièges vacants, précise le règlement de l'Assemblée) doivent voter pour la motion. Le système ne laisse pas la place à l'abstention : un député peut voter la motion, ou ne pas la voter, auquel cas il est réputé ne pas souhaiter le renversement du gouvernement. On dit d'ailleurs qu'une motion qu'elle n'est pas adoptée, signifiant par là qu'elle n'a pas atteint la majorité, et non qu'elle est rejetée, ce qui voudrait dire qu'une majorité s'est déclarée contre ; or, seuls votent les partisans de la motion. Ce mécanisme, lors d'un scrutin serré, peut assurer la survie du gouvernement. La motion ayant échoué avec la marge la plus étroite visait la politique agricole du gouvernement de Pierre Bérégovoy en juin 1992. Il n'a manqué que trois voix à son adoption. La procédure de la IV République était similaire, avec une nuance : si les partisans de la censure devait atteindre, comme aujourd'hui, la majorité absolue des députés, tous les députés prenaient part au vote, si bien qu'on pouvait distinguer les partisans du gouvernement des abstentionnistes ; bien que rien ne soit changé pour l'adoption de la motion, le vote pouvait affaiblir le gouvernement en mettant en évidence le peu de soutien don't il bénéficiait.\n\nCes précautions sont encore renforcées par le caractère exclusif de l'article 49 quant à la mise en cause de la responsabilité du gouvernement. Le Conseil constitutionnel censure toute tentative, dans les lois organiques ou les règlements des assemblées, qui ouvrirait au parlement ou à une assemblée la possibilité d'un vote marquant sa défiance au gouvernement, fut-ce sans effet contraignant, en dehors de l'article 49.\n\nCes diverses techniques de rationalisation se sont montrées efficaces pour ceux des gouvernements de la V République qui n'ont disposé que d'une majorité faible pour les soutenir. Cependant les mêmes techniques ou presque déjà présente dans la constitution de la IV République avaient totalement manqué leur but. La plupart cependant n'ont pas été formellement renversés, mais se sont retirés faute d'obtenir le soutien qu'ils estimaient nécessaire, ou encore à la suite de désaccords graves entre ministres. Ces deux causes ont disparu.\n\nLes gouvernements des deux républiques précédentes (tout au moins après la chute de Mac-Mahon) devaient toute leur légitimité au parlement, le président de la République ne faisant guère que les proposer aux assemblées, auxquelles il devait d'ailleurs lui aussi sa fonction. Un soutien trop faible du parlement, même sans que la censure soit votée, les conduisait souvent à démissionner. Le président de la V République a sa légitimité propre et considère, hors période de cohabitation, que le gouvernement est le sien et est responsible devant lui, ce qui mène souvent à faire un parallèle entre la V République et les régimes parlementaires dualistes de la première moitié du XIX siècle. La responsabilité devant le parlement subsiste, mais le gouvernement peut s'estimer légitime tant qu'il n'est pas renversé dans les formes. Si la censure est votée, elle peut s'interpréter comme un conflit entre les légitimités, toutes deux fondées sur l'élection, du président de la République et de l'Assemblée, conflit qui, explique de Gaulle, L'assemblée ne doit plus alors renverser le gouvernement qu'en raison d'un désaccord majeur, et le président de la République pour faire trancher le conflit de légitimité « peut recourir à la nation », en prononçant la dissolution de l'Assemblée nationale (article 12). Il s'agit d'un de ses pouvoirs propres, il n'y a aucune condition que de pure forme à sa mise en œuvre, et il a été effectivement utilisé la seule fois où la censure a été votée. La constitution veille d'ailleurs à interdire la censure lorsque la dissolution n'est pas possible, pendant la vacance ou l'empêchement de la présidence (article 7). La possibilité, voire la probabilité de cette dissolution peut avoir une forte valeur dissuasive sur l'Assemblée, beaucoup de députés risquant d'y perdre leur siège.\n\nEn laissant à part les aspects dualistes propre à la V République, qui peuvent eux aussi contribuer à expliquer la solidité des gouvernements face à l'Assemblée, on a souvent remarqué les limites de la rationalisation \"technique\" du parlementarisme, celle qui repose sur l'introduction dans la constitution de mesures entravant le vote des motions de censures. Les premiers examples de rationalisation technique, qu'on trouve dans les constitutions rédigées à l'issue de la Première Guerre mondiale, notamment celle de la République de Weimar, elle aussi dotée d'un chef de l'État fort, ont totalement échoué, comme elles ont échoué sous la IV République, ou encore dans la République italienne. En revanche, le parlementarisme britannique, totalement dépourvu de telles mesures, montre une grande stabilité. Cette stabilité est souvent attribuée au bipartisme, notamment par Michel Debré dans son discours au Conseil d'État ou encore par René Capitant, un des inspirateurs du régime, tous deux admirateurs du système britannique, fondé sur le scrutin majoritaire à un tour et le bipartisme. Bien que Michel Debré ait jugé sa transposition impossible en France, le scrutin majoritaire à deux tours, introduit en 1958 a abouti à des effets proches, avec des coalitions formées avant le scrutin et demeurant stables après. Lors qu'il ne relève que de la loi ordinaire (article 34), ce mode de scrutin contribue sans doute plus à la stabilité du gouvernement que le détail de l'article 49. On peut remarquer de même l'effet du changement de mode de scrutin en Italie en 1993, en l'absence de réforme majeure de la constitution, qui reste d'un strict parlementarisme moniste, d'ailleurs assez proche de celle de la IV République. Cependant, le mode de scrutin ne garantit pas toujours l'existence de majorité, comme le montre l'example anglais dans les années 1920, ou encore la composition de l'Assemblée nationale entre 1988 et 1993.\n\nThe censure was passed only once under the Fifth Republic, during the 4 October 1962 meeting (in reality on the morning of 5 October). The motion was filed on October 2, after General de Gaulle had announced on 30 September a referendum (in accordance to Article 11 of the Constitution) to organize the election of the President of the Republic by direct suffrage. The circumstances of that vote are quite specific, it occurred at the end of the Algerian crisis, which affected the first years of the Fifth Republic, a kind of transitional phase in its history. The vote took place during the first legislature of the Fifth Republic, and put an ends to it. The parliamentary elections of 1958 had not resulted in a clear majority, but the president and the Debré government could work with the assembly without a secured majority, because the priority was to resolve the Algerian crisis. In the summer of 1962, the crisis ended, and many of the deputies wished to revert to a more parliamentarian regime. De Gaulle, requesting the resignation of Prime Minister Debré, and appointing Georges Pompidou, a non-parliamentaryare, seemed not to go in this direction.\n\nThe motion was passed easily, the Gaullist party UNR being the only major group not to vote it. De Gaulle was moving on 5 October and received on 6 October Pompidou announcing his resignation, as Article 50 forces him to do. De Gaulle took note of the resignation without formally accepting it, and requested the Government to remain in office, and announced the dissolution of the National Assembly on 9 October. De Gaulle won very easily the 28 October referendum and the parliamentary elections on 18 and 25 November. With this last vote, the left recovered from the 1958 elections in which there had been no alliance between socialists and communists. Conversely, centrist parties, popular and independent Republicans are defeated at the benefit of the UNR, which monopolized the rightist votes. That election, consequence of censorship of 5 October, put in place the polarization of political life in France. Pompidou's new government was appointed after the elections.\n\nThe announcement of the referendum, which was preceded by few rumors in the summer, caused considerable excitement. The universal suffrage elections were to change the balance of powers, and would turn the election of the President of the Republic into a plebiscite, reviving the painful memory of Louis-Napoleon Bonaparte and General Boulanger. However it was the procedure which was under attack, because De Gaulle choose to revise the constitution with the Article 11 and not with the Article 89 which requires the consent of parliament. Most parliamentarians believe that the procedure is unconstitutional. This was also the opinion of most experts, by the State Council whose opinion was published in the press after a leak, by the Constitutional Council whose advice remains confidential, and by most of the entourage of the president, even the Prime Minister. The motion was clearly directed against the President of the Republic. La plupart de ses pouvoirs sont soumis à contreseing, ce qui dans la tradition parlementaire, justifie son irresponsabilité, le ministre qui contresigne endosse l'acte. L'article 11 échappe au contreseing, cependant on ne peut parler de pouvoir propre, l'initiative devant venir soit du gouvernement, soit du parlement. En l'espèce, elle est venue, bien que ce soit de pure forme, du gouvernement, ce qui permet la mise en jeu de sa responsabilité. Le texte de la motion ne laisse cependant aucun doute quant à sa cible, le gouvernement n'étant mentionné qu'à sa fin : « L'Assemblée nationale [...], Considérant qu'en écartant le vote par les deux chambres le Président de la République viole la Constitution dont il est le gardien ; Considérant qu'il ouvre ainsi une brèche par laquelle un aventurier pourrait passer un jour, pour renverser la République et supprimer les libertés ; Considérant que le Président n'a pu agir que sur la proposition du Gouvernement ; Censure le Gouvernement conformément à l'article 49, alinéa 2, de la Constitution. » Sa rédaction n'est pas loin de suggérer l'usage de l'article 68, la mise en accusation du président de la République pour haute trahison, plutôt que la censure du gouvernement.\n\nThe clause 3 allows the government to impose the adoption of a text by the assembly, immediately and without a vote, that the assembly cannot oppose without toppling the government through a motion of no confidence (clause 2). This is one of the most known clauses of the Constitution, often cited as a mere number, \"article 49.3\" or even \"the forty-nine three.\" This clause reveals a reversal of the relationship between governments and parliaments in the 20th century in favor of the former: the executive power is no longer subordinated to the legislative one and must be able to adopt laws in accordance to its policy. Various solutions have been implemented to ensure the ability of the government to pass laws. With article 49.3, the governments of the Fifth Republic are stronger than ever. The article allows the government to compel the majority if reluctant to adopt a text, and also to accelerate the legislative process, and in particular to end any obstruction from the opposition.\n\nThe procedure of section 49.3 has been used 82 times since 1958 by prime ministers.\n\n\nSection 49.3 was conceived at a time when the parliament was often subject to divisions into numerous and undisciplined parties. This situation disappeared after the legislative elections of 1962. The new arrangement is more efficient, in that the legislators will prefer not to vote to force the resignation of the government even if they oppose the law in question, because they fear a form of political suicide in the eyes of the voters.\n\nVarious reasons can cause the section to come into play:\n\n\n\n\"This article was originally translated from the French Wikipedia article, .\"\n"}
{"id": "2895898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2895898", "title": "Attornment", "text": "Attornment\n\nAttornment (from French \"tourner\", \"to turn\"), in English real property law, is the acknowledgment of a new lord by the tenant on the alienation of land. Under the feudal system, the relations of landlord and tenant were to a certain extent reciprocal. So it was considered unreasonable to the tenant to subject him to a new lord without his own approval, and it thus came about that alienation could not take place without the consent of the tenant. Attornment was also extended to all cases of lessees for life or for years. The necessity for attornment was abolished by an act of 1705.\n\nIn mortgages, an attornment clause is a clause whereby the mortgagor attorns tenant to the mortgagee, thus giving the mortgagee the right to distrain, as an additional security.\nAs used in modern legal transactions, the term \"attornment\" refers to an acknowledgment of the existence of the relationship of landlord and tenant. A tenant often has the duty under the tenant's lease, particularly in commercial leases, to provide an attornment upon request, and is required by a creditor or potential buyer of property from the landlord to establish the nature of existing encumbrances on and income streams flowing from a property, as an element of the due diligence process associated with the transaction. Frequently, a tenant must declare the existence of any outstanding disputes with the landlord at the time the attornment is executed and waives any dispute not declared at that time.\n\nA request for an attornment from a tenant which is refused can be used by a landlord as a basis for establishing grounds for eviction on the grounds of insecurity that the lease will be honored, or the existence of an actual case or controversy suitable for resolution in a declaratory judgment action.\n\nAttornment in commercial real estate is generally used in the context of a subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreement (SNDA), which protects both the tenant and the lender in the event the landlord defaults on its commercial lending obligations. The lease remains in full force and effect.\n"}
{"id": "7359066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7359066", "title": "BPO security", "text": "BPO security\n\nInformation security has emerged as a significant concern for banks, mobile phone companies and other businesses that use call centers or business process outsourcing, or BPO. There have been instances of theft of personal data reported from call centers.\n\nBritain's Financial Services Authority examined standards in India in April 2005 and the Banking Code Standards Board audited eight India-based call centres in 2006, handling more than a million calls per month from the UK. the examinations did not extend to Africa-based call centres staffed by workers of Indian origin.\n\nThe BCSB report stated that \"Customer data is subject to the same level of security as in the UK. High risk and more complex processes are subject to higher levels of scrutiny than similar activities onshore.\" \n\nIndia's NASSCOM has said that they take breach in security extremely seriously and will assist the police in their probe.\n\nThere are three identifiable types of illicit activities concerning fraud emanating from call centers:\nWhile items 1 and 2 are mostly subject to police action, call centres can use internal procedures to minimise risk. Such mitigation measures include but are not limited to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "65560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65560", "title": "Borax", "text": "Borax\n\nBorax, also known as sodium borate, sodium tetraborate, or disodium tetraborate, is an important boron compound, a mineral, and a salt of boric acid. Powdered borax is white, consisting of soft colorless crystals that dissolve in water. A number of closely related minerals or chemical compounds that differ in their crystal water content are referred to as \"borax\", but the word is usually used to refer to the decahydrate. Commercially sold borax is partially dehydrated.\n\nBorax is a component of many detergents, cosmetics, and enamel glazes. It is used to make buffer solutions in biochemistry, as a fire retardant, as an anti-fungal compound, in the manufacture of fiberglass, as a flux in metallurgy, neutron-capture shields for radioactive sources, a texturing agent in cooking, as a precursor for other boron compounds, and along with its inverse, boric acid, is useful as an insecticide.\n\nIn artisanal gold mining, the borax method is sometimes used as a substitute for toxic mercury in the gold extraction process. Borax was reportedly used by gold miners in parts of the Philippines in the 1900s.\n\nBorax was first discovered in dry lake beds in Tibet and was imported via the Silk Road to the Arabian Peninsula in the 8th century AD. Borax first came into common use in the late 19th century when Francis Marion Smith's Pacific Coast Borax Company began to market and popularize a large variety of applications under the 20 Mule Team Borax trademark, named for the method by which borax was originally hauled out of the California and Nevada deserts in large enough quantities to make it cheap and commonly available.\n\nThe term \"borax\" is often used for a number of closely related minerals or chemical compounds that differ in their crystal water content:\n\nBorax is generally described as NaBO·10HO. However, it is better formulated as Na[BO(OH)]·8HO, since borax contains the [BO(OH)] ion. In this structure, there are two four-coordinate boron atoms (two BO tetrahedra) and two three-coordinate boron atoms (two BO triangles).\n\nBorax is also easily converted to boric acid and other borates, which have many applications. Its reaction with hydrochloric acid to form boric acid is:\n\nThe \"decahydrate\" is sufficiently stable to find use as a primary standard for acid base titrimetry.\n\nWhen borax is added to a flame, it produces a yellow green color. Borax is not used for this purpose in fireworks due to the overwhelming yellow color of sodium. Boric acid is used to color methanol flames a transparent green.\n\nBorax is very soluble in ethylene glycol, moderately soluble in diethylene glycol and methanol, slightly soluble in acetone. It is poorly soluble in cold water, but its solubility increases significantly with temperature.\n\nThe English word \"borax\" is Latinized: the Middle English form was \"boras\", from Old French \"boras, bourras\". That may have been from medieval Latin \"baurach\" (another English spelling), \"borac(-/um/em), borax\", along with Spanish \"borrax\" (> \"borraj\") and Italian \"borrace\", in the 9th century. Another name for borax is tincal, from Sanskrit.\n\nThe word \"tincal\" \"tinkle\", or \"tincar\" \"tinker\", refers to crude borax, before it is purified, as mined from lake deposits in Tibet, Persia, and other parts of Asia. The word was adopted in the 17th century from Malay \"tingkal\" and from Urdu/Persian/Arabic \"tinkār/tankār\"; thus the two forms in English. These all appear to be related to the Sanskrit टांकण \"ṭānkaṇa\".\n\nBorax occurs naturally in evaporite deposits produced by the repeated evaporation of seasonal lakes. The most commercially important deposits are found in: Turkey; Boron, California; and Searles Lake, California. Also, borax has been found at many other locations in the Southwestern United States, the Atacama desert in Chile, newly discovered deposits in Bolivia, and in Tibet and Romania. Borax can also be produced synthetically from other boron compounds.\n\nNaturally occurring borax (known by the trade name Rasorite–46 in the United States and many other countries) is refined by a process of recrystallization.\nBorax is used in various household laundry and cleaning products, including the \"20 Mule Team Borax\" laundry booster, \"Boraxo\" powdered hand soap, and some tooth bleaching formulas.\n\nBorate ions (commonly supplied as boric acid) are used in biochemical and chemical laboratories to make buffers, e.g. for polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of DNA and RNA, such as TBE buffer (borate buffered tris-hydroxymethylaminomethonium) or the newer SB buffer or BBS buffer (borate buffered saline) in coating procedures. Borate buffers (usually at pH 8) are also used as preferential equilibration solution in dimethyl pimelimidate (DMP) based crosslinking reactions.\n\nBorax as a source of borate has been used to take advantage of the co-complexing ability of borate with other agents in water to form complex ions with various substances. Borate and a suitable polymer bed are used to chromatograph non-glycosylated hemoglobin differentially from glycosylated hemoglobin (chiefly HbA1c), which is an indicator of long term hyperglycemia in diabetes mellitus.\n\nBorax alone does not have a high affinity for the \"hardness cations\", although it has been used for water-softening. Its chemical equation for \"water-softening\" is given below:\nThe sodium ions introduced do not make water ‘hard’. This method is suitable for removing both temporary and permanent types of hardness.\n\nA mixture of borax and ammonium chloride is used as a flux when welding iron and steel. It lowers the melting point of the unwanted iron oxide (scale), allowing it to run off. Borax is also used mixed with water as a flux when soldering jewelry metals such as gold or silver, where it allows the molten solder to wet the metal and flow evenly into the joint. Borax is also a good flux for \"pre-tinning\" tungsten with zinc — making the tungsten soft-solderable. Borax is often used as a flux for forge welding.\n\nBorax is replacing mercury as the preferred method for extracting gold in small-scale mining facilities. The method is called the borax method and is used in the Philippines.\n\nA rubbery polymer sometimes called Slime, Flubber, 'gluep' or 'glurch' (or erroneously called Silly Putty, which is based on silicone polymers), can be made by cross-linking polyvinyl alcohol with borax. Making flubber from polyvinyl acetate-based glues, such as Elmer's Glue, and borax is a common elementary-science demonstration.\n\nBorax, given the E number \"E285\", is used as a food additive in some countries, but is banned in some countries, like the U.S., and Thailand. As a consequence, certain foods, such as caviar, produced for sale in the US contain higher levels of salt to assist preservation.\nIts use as a cooking ingredient is to add a firm rubbery texture to the food, or as a preservative. In Asian cooking it is mostly used for its texturing properties. In China, borax ( or ) was found to have been added to some Chinese foods like hand-pulled noodles \"lamian\" and some rice noodles like shahe fen, kway teow, and chee cheong fun recipes. In Indonesia it is a common, but forbidden, additive to such foods as noodles, bakso (meatballs), and steamed rice. The country's Directorate of Consumer Protection warns of the risk of liver cancer with high consumption over a period of 5–10 years.\n\n\nBorax, sodium tetraborate decahydrate, according to one study, is not acutely toxic. Its (median lethal dose) score is tested at 2.66 g/kg in rats, meaning that a significant dose of the chemical is needed to cause severe symptoms or death. The lethal dose is not necessarily the same for humans. On pesticide information websites it is listed as a non-lethal compound and of no hazardous concerns.\n\nBorax has been in use as an insecticide in the United States with various restrictions since 1946. All restrictions were removed in February 1986 due to the low toxicity of borax, as reported in two EPA documents relating to boric acid and borax.\n\nAlthough it cited inconclusive data, a re-evaluation in 2006 by the EPA still found that \"There were no signs of toxicity observed during the study and no evidence of cytotoxicity to the target organ.\" In the reevaluation, a study of toxicity due to overexposure was checked and the findings were that \"The residential handler inhalation risks due to boric acid and its sodium salts as active ingredients are not a risk concern and do not exceed the level of concern...\" but that there could be some risk of irritation to children inhaling it if used as a powder for cleaning rugs. \nSodium tetraborate decahydrate has no known hazard issues.\n\nConditions defined as \"over-exposure\" to borax dust can cause respiratory irritation, while no skin irritation is known to exist due to borax. Ingestion may cause gastrointestinal distress including nausea, persistent vomiting, abdominal pain, and diarrhea. Effects on the vascular system and human brain include headaches and lethargy, but are less frequent. \"In severe poisonings, a beefy red skin rash affecting palms, soles, buttocks and scrotum has been described. With severe poisoning, erythematous and exfoliative rash, unconsciousness, respiratory depression, and renal failure.\"\n\nA draft risk assessment released by Health Canada in July 2016 has found that overexposure to boric acid has the potential to cause developmental and reproductive health effects. Since people are already exposed to boric acid naturally through their diets and water, Health Canada advised that exposure from other sources should be reduced as much as possible, especially for children and pregnant women. The concern is not with any one product, but rather multiple exposures from a variety of sources. With this in mind, the department also announced that registrations for certain pesticides that contain boric acid, which are commonly used in homes, will have their registrations cancelled and be phased out of the marketplace. As well, new, more protective label directions are being introduced for other boric acid pesticides that continue to be registered in Canada (for example, enclosed bait stations and spot treatments using gel formulations).\n\nThe Indonesian Directorate of Consumer Protection warns of the risk of liver cancer with high consumption of borax over a period of 5–10 years.\n\nBorax was added to the Substance of Very High Concern (SVHC) candidate list on 16 December 2010. The SVHC candidate list is part of the EU Regulations on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals 2006 (REACH), and the addition was based on the revised classification of borax as \"toxic for reproduction\" category 1B under the CLP Regulations. Substances and mixtures imported into the EU which contain borax are now required to be labelled with the warnings \"May damage fertility\" and \"May damage the unborn child\". It was proposed for addition to REACH Annex XIV by the ECHA on 1 July 2015. If this recommendation is approved, all imports and uses of borax in the EU will have to be authorized by the ECHA. Review of the boron toxicity (as boric acid and borates) published 2012 in Journal of Toxicology and Environmental Health concluded: \"It clearly appears that human B [boron] exposures, even in the highest exposed cohorts, are too low to reach the blood (and target tissue) concentrations that would be required to exert adverse effects on reproductive functions.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55509837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55509837", "title": "Carla Gomes", "text": "Carla Gomes\n\nCarla P. Gomes is a Portuguese-American computer scientist and professor at Cornell University. She is the founding Director of the Institute for Computational Sustainability and is noted for her pioneering work in developing computational methods to address challenges in sustainability. She has conducted research in a variety of areas of artificial intelligence and computer science, including constraint reasoning, mathematical optimization, and randomization techniques for exact search methods, algorithm selection, multi-agent systems, and game theory. Her work in computational sustainability includes ecological conservation, rural resource mapping, and pattern recognition for material science.\n\nGomes received her master's degree in applied mathematics from the Technical University of Lisbon in 1987 and her PhD in computer science from the University of Edinburgh in 1993. Following her PhD, she worked at the Air Force Research Laboratory for five years before joining Cornell University as a research associate in 1998. She served as the Director of the Intelligent Information Systems Institute at Cornell from 2001 to 2008, and joined the faculty in 2003 as an associate professor with joint appointments in the Departments of Computing and Information Science, Applied Economics and Management, and Computer Science. \nIn 2008, Gomes received a $10 million grant from the National Science Foundation to create the Institute for Computational Sustainability to develop computational methods for environmental, economic, and social sustainability. She became a full professor in the Departments of Computer Science, Information Science, and the Dyson School of Economics and Management in 2010.\nIn 2011, she was a visiting fellow at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study.\n\nGomes was elected a Fellow of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence in 2007 \"for significant contributions to constraint reasoning and the integration of techniques from artificial intelligence, constraint programming, and operations research\".\nShe was elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 2013.\nWith Bart Selman and Henry Kautz, she received the 2016 Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence Classic Paper Award for their 1998 paper \"Boosting Combinatorial Search through Randomization\", which provided \"significant contributions to the area of automated reasoning and constraint solving through the introduction of randomization and restarts into complete solvers\".\nShe was elected as an ACM Fellow in 2017.\n"}
{"id": "9405564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9405564", "title": "Democratic Army of Greece", "text": "Democratic Army of Greece\n\nThe Democratic Army of Greece (, DSE (ΔΣΕ)), was the army founded by the Communist Party of Greece during the Greek Civil War, 1946–1949. At its height, it had a strength of around 50,000 men and women.\n\nThe DSE was backed up by the Popular Civil Guard (Λαϊκή Πολιτοφυλακή, ΛΠ), the Communist Party's security police force.\n\nAfter the liberation of Greece from the Axis occupation, the \"Dekemvriana\" and the Varkiza Agreement (in which ELAS, the main Partisan Army in Greece, agreed to a disarmament), the persecution of left wing citizens, communists and officials of EAM, started. There were 166 different anti-communist groups, such as those of Sourlas and Kalabalikis in Thessaly, and Papadopoulos in Macedonia. Archives of D.S. National Solidarity indicate that by 31 March 1946, nationwide, 1,289 suspected communists had been killed, 6,671 had been wounded, 84,931 had been arrested, 165 been raped, and the property of 18,767 was looted. Imprisoned suspected communists numbered in excess of 30,000. Those responsible for the murders, according to the DSE, were collaborationist groups, national guards, rural police, and members of the British armed forces.\n\nUnder these circumstances, the persecuted partisans that were still free, started to form guerrilla groups named Groups of Persecuted Fighters. By the summer of 1946 cells of these groups had been established throughout Greece. The official start of the armed struggle came with the attack on the Greek Gendarmerie station at Litochoro by around 35 guerrillas on 31 March 1946, an election day. 12 Gendarmes were killed, and this attack is generally considered the start of the Civil War.\nThe Communist Party of Greece led the armed struggle, through the General Partisan Command, which was created on 28 October 1946, and headed by Markos Vafiadis. Order number 19 of the General Command, issued on 27 December 1946, renamed the guerilla groups to the Democratic Army of Greece (DSE). The relevant order included the following comment regarding the DSE: \"It is the national people’s revolutionary army of the new Democratic Greece and fights with gun in hand for our National independence and for People's Democracy.\"\n\nIn 1947, KKE and the Democratic Army formed the \"Provisional Democratic Government\" (\"Mountain Government\") under the premiership of Markos Vafiadis. After this, KKE turned illegal.\n\nAs well as issues regarding the war effort, the Provisional Government had to deal with issues regarding the \"People's Law\" in the territories controlled by the DSE. These had to do with the judicial, financial, and political systems. As the Provisional Government was based on political forces which aimed to establish a socialist state, its decisions were driven by this political agenda. The self-determination of national minorities living in Greece was one priority. The Provisional Government and the KKE intended to establish a People's Republic of Greece in which all nationalities would work together in a Socialist state. An article written by Nikos Zachariadis expressed the KKE's strategy after the envisioned victory of the Democratic Army of Greece regarding what was then known as the \"Macedonian Issue\": \"The Macedonian people will acquire an independent, united state with a coequal position within the family of free peoples’ republics within the Balkans, within the family of Peoples’ Republics to which the Greek people will belong. The Macedonian people are today fighting for this independent united state with a coequal position and is helping the DSE with all its soul...\" The policy of self-determination for Macedonia within a People's Republic was reiterated during the 5th KKE Central Committee meeting held in January 1949, which declared that the \"Macedonian people participating in the liberation struggle would find their full national re-establishment as they want giving their blood for this acquisition... Macedonian Communists should pay great attentions to foreign chauvinist and counteractive elements that want to break the unity between the Greek and Macedonian people. This will only serve the monarcho-fascists and British imperialism...\" This statement can be explained due to the large number of Slavomacedonian fighters (~ 60%) amongst the DSE fighters.\n\nThe Provisional Government never achieved international recognition. During the first two years, from 1946 to the beginning of 1948, it managed to control large rural areas but no major town. At the same time, the Hellenic Army, advised by the British up to 1947 and afterwards by US military delegation led by General James Van Fleet, US Army, established the Greek government's position in the rest of the country as well as internationally.\n\nAfter the fatal blow in early 1948, when DSE's III Brigade numbering 20,000 men and women was completely wiped out, DSE lost support in southern Greece as well as the political and economic control of a huge area. That was the beginning of the end of the Greek Civil War. At the same time, the efforts of the HQ of DSE to capture and hold a major town in the North such as Konitsa or Florina led to catastrophic defeat of the partisan army, which never recovered. On the other hand, the DSE did manage to achieve some military victories in 1948 and early 1949, in the battles of Karpenisi, Naousa, and Karditsa. At the same time, DSE had a huge problem regarding reserves. Most of the men and women capable and willing to join its ranks were imprisoned or unable to reach areas controlled by DSE.\n\nOne of the biggest battles of the three year Greek Civil War took place in the Grammos mountains in 1948. The operation took place after the Hellenic Army had secured the Peloponnese, where it managed to defeat the DSE's III Division, numbering 20,000 fighters. In the battle of Grammos, forces of the Hellenic Army, with the codename Operation Koronis, deployed 70,000 troops, while the DSE had 12,000 fighters. The battle lasted from 16 June until 21 August 1948. On that day, DSE forces, after hard fight, retreated into Albanian territory and reformed towards Vitsi. The maneuver from Grammos to Vitsi is considered one of the most important tactical actions of DSE during the war, from a military point of view.\n\nTowards the end of August 1949, the Hellenic Army, under the leadership of Alexander Papagos, deployed 180,000 troops, and achieved the defeat of the DSE army of about 7,000 fighters on the Grammos-Vitsi front. After this defeat, the DSE fighters crossed the border into Albania and scattered to camps all over the newly founded so-called Socialist Republics, with the main body of the fighters camped in Taskent, the capital of Uzbekistan in the USSR.\n\nThe post-Civil War era left a country in ruins. Many of the nation's youth were either killed on the battlefield, imprisoned or became political refugees. The political situation was quite unstable for most of the next two decades – the decisive factor leading to the Greek military junta of 1967–1974. The ghost of the Civil War haunted Greece for many years after. In 1981, when the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) party came to power in Greece following a long period of right-wing dominance, the political refugees of the DSE were finally given permission to return to their homeland (Slavomacedonians excluded) by the new Interior Minister, George Gennimatas. Markos Vafiadis also returned to Greece and supported the PASOK government, and was elected a Member of Parliament for PASOK.\n\nIn 1989, the Greek Parliament voted unanimously a law that declared the three-year war of 1946–1949 as formally having been the \"Greek Civil War\" and accepted the former \"Communist Bandits\" as \"Fighters of DSE\", giving some of them privileges of pension.\n\nThe following text was the oath that DSE members must swear and abide by. During enrolment, the member would swear:\n\nI, a child of the Greek people and a DSE fighter, swear to battle with gun in hand, to shed my blood, and give even my life to banish from the soil of my motherland every last foreign occupier. To banish every trace of fascism. To secure and defend the national independence and territorial integrity of my motherland. To secure and defend democracy, honour, work, fortune, and progress of my people.\n\nI swear to be a good, brave and disciplined soldier, to carry out all the orders of my superiors, to observe all regulations, and not betray any secrets of the DSE.\n\nI swear to be a good example to the people, to encourage popular unity and reconciliation, and to avoid any action that reduces and dishonours me, as a person and as a fighter.\n\nMy ideal is a free and strong democratic Greece and the progress and prosperity of the people. And in the service of my ideal I offer my gun and my life.\n\nIf I ever prove to be a liar, and with bad intent violate my oath, let the vengeful hand of the nation, and the hate and scorn of the people, fall upon me implacably.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2703251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2703251", "title": "Democratic Socialist Party (Guinea-Bissau)", "text": "Democratic Socialist Party (Guinea-Bissau)\n\nThe Democratic Socialist Party () was a political party in Guinea-Bissau.\n\nThe party first contested national elections in 2004, when it ran in the parliamentary elections that year. It received 2% of the vote, but failed to win a seat. In the 2008 elections its vote share fell to 0.4% and it remained without representation in the National People's Assembly.\n"}
{"id": "54078916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54078916", "title": "Dutch Women's Council", "text": "Dutch Women's Council\n\nDutch Women's Council () was founded in 1898 as an umbrella organization to unite women's groups across the country in their struggles for economic, legal, political, and social rights. Initially their focus was not political, but expanded to encompass women's suffrage. After more than one hundred years of operation, the council continues to strive for women's equality.\n\nSoon after the National Exhibition of Women's Labor was held, the board members of the exhibition decided that an umbrella organization called the National Women's Council of the Netherlands () would be beneficial for uniting women in the improvement of their legal, political and socio-economic status in the country. On 29 October 1898 the organization was founded with the first chairman designated as Mariane van Hogendorp and was affiliated with the International Council of Women.\n\nThe NVR membership was neither tied to political ideology or religious affiliation, which meant that debate on various points of view were welcomed, but also at times made members uncomfortable as their particular customs or practices had to be set aside for the advancement of the whole group. The council had a requirement that all affiliated associations, companies, or organizations have at least one woman who was a member of their governing board. To ensure that no single organization could dominate the other members, the bylaws specified that all decisions had to be unanimous. It was also hoped that such a rule would cause the women to discuss and eliminate issues which were divisive.\n\nAmong the issues the Council focused upon initially were equal education for girls and boys, the inclusion of women in employment opportunities, health and sanitation legislation, illegitimacy, loss of women's autonomy upon marriage, prostitution, alcoholism, and other social ills. Initially, women's suffrage was not an area in which the women focused; however, increasing involvement of several members like Aletta Jacobs with international suffragists like Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, led the NVT to begin pressing for political rights.\n\nIn 1972 the National Women's Council was reorganized to become the Dutch Women's Council and throughout the 1980s a corporate structure was adopted changing focus to a more economic focus. By the end of the 1980s, the organization faced a crisis because the Ministry of Welfare, Public Health and Culture saw no need to channel funds into an umbrella organization with such broad reach. That decision in turn, led to a split in the organization in 1992, with one branch retaining the name Dutch Women's Council and the other new organization, Arachne Women's Advice Bureau for Government Policy, being developed to evaluate women's policy issues. Social Participation and Rights of Women remain the goals of the organization, which has approximately 50 affiliated organizations. The organization's archival materials are located at the Atria Institute on gender equality and women's history.\n\n"}
{"id": "5660960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5660960", "title": "Economic stagnation", "text": "Economic stagnation\n\nEconomic stagnation is a prolonged period of slow economic growth (traditionally measured in terms of the GDP growth), usually accompanied by high unemployment. Under some definitions, \"slow\" means significantly slower than potential growth as estimated by macroeconomists, even though the growth rate may be nominally higher than in other countries not experiencing economic stagnation.\n\nThe term \"secular stagnation\" was originally coined by Alvin Hansen in 1938 to \"describe what he feared was the fate of the American economy following the Great Depression of the early 1930s: a check to economic progress as investment opportunities were stunted by the closing of the frontier and the collapse of immigration\".\n\nWarnings similar to secular stagnation theory have been issued after all deep recessions, but they usually turned out to be wrong because they underestimated the potential of existing technologies.\n\nSecular stagnation refers to \"a condition of negligible or no economic growth in a market-based economy\". In this context, the term \"secular\" is used in contrast to \"cyclical\" or \"short-term\", and suggests a change of fundamental dynamics which would play out only in its own time. Alan Sweezy described the difference: \"But, whereas business-cycle theory treats depression as a temporary, though recurring, phenomenon, the theory of secular stagnation brings out the possibility that depression may become the normal condition of the economy.\" According to Alan Sweezy \"the idea of secular stagnation runs through much of Keynes \"General Theory\"\".\n\n\n\nThe U.S. economy of the early 19th century was primarily agricultural and suffered from labor shortages.\n\nCapital was so scarce before the Civil War that private investors supplied only a fraction of the money to build railroads, despite the large economic advantage railroads offered.\n\nAs new territories were opened and federal land sales conducted, land had to be cleared and new homesteads established. Hundreds of thousands of immigrants came to the United States every year and found jobs digging canals and building railroads. Because there was little mechanization, almost all work was done by hand or with horses, mules and oxen until the last two decades of the 19th century.\nThe decade of the 1880s saw great growth in railroads and the steel and machinery industries. Purchase of structures and equipment increased 500% from the previous decade. Labor productivity rose 26.5% and GDP nearly doubled.\n\nThe workweek during most of the 19th century was over 60 hours, being higher in the first half of the century, with twelve-hour work days common. There were numerous strikes and other labor movements for a ten-hour day.\n\nThe tight labor market was a factor in productivity gains allowing workers to maintain or increase their nominal wages during the secular deflation that caused real wages to rise in the late 19th century. Labor did suffer temporary setbacks, such as when railroads cut wages during the Long Depression of the mid-1870s; however, this resulted in strikes throughout the nation.\n\nConstruction of structures, residential, commercial and industrial, fell off dramatically during the depression, but housing was well on its way to recovering by the late 1930s.\n\nThe depression years were the period of the highest total factor productivity growth in the United States, primarily to the building of roads and bridges, abandonment of unneeded railroad track and reduction in railroad employment, expansion of electric utilities and improvements wholesale and retail distribution. This helped the United States, which escaped the devastation of World War II, to quickly convert back to peacetime production.\n\nThe war created pent up demand for many items as factories that once produced automobiles and other machinery converted to production of tanks, guns, military vehicles and supplies. Tires had been rationed due to shortages of natural rubber; however, the U.S. government built synthetic rubber plants. The U.S. government also built synthetic ammonia plants, aluminum smelters, aviation fuel refineries and aircraft engine factories during the war. After the war commercial aviation, plastics and synthetic rubber would become major industries and synthetic ammonia was used for fertilizer. The end of armaments production free up hundreds of thousands of machine tools, which were made available for other industries. They were needed in the rapidly growing aircraft manufacturing industry.\n\nThe memory of war created a need for preparedness in the United States. This resulted in constant spending for defense programs, creating what President Eisenhower called the military-industrial complex.\n\nU.S. birth rates began to recover by the time of World War II, and turned into the baby boom of the postwar decades. A building boom commenced in the years following the war. Suburbs began a rapid expansion and automobile ownership increased.\n\nHigh-yielding crops and chemical fertilizers dramatically increased crop yields and greatly lowered the cost of food, giving consumers more discretionary income. Railroad locomotives switched from steam to diesel power, with a large increase in fuel efficiency. Most importantly, cheap food essentially eliminated malnutrition in countries like the United States and much of Europe.\n\nMany trends that began before the war continued: \n\nThe workweek never returned to the 48 hours or more that was typical before the Great Depression.\n\nThe period following the 1973 oil crisis was characterized by stagflation, the combination of low economic and productivity growth and high inflation. The period was also characterized by high interest rates, which is not entirely consistent with secular stagnation. Stronger economic growth resumed and inflation declined during the 1980s.\n\nAlthough productivity never returned to peak levels, it did enjoy a revival with the growth of the computer and communications industries in the 1980s and 1990s. This enabled a recovery in GDP growth rates; however, debt in the period following 1982 grew at a much faster rate than GDP.\n\nThe U.S. economy experienced structural changes following the stagflation. Steel consumption peaked in 1973, both on an absolute and per-capita basis, and never returned to previous levels. The energy intensity of the United States and many other developed economies also began to decline after 1973. Health care expenditures rose to over 17% of the economy.\n\nProductivity growth began to slow down sharply in developed countries after 1973, but there was a revival in the 1990s which still left productivity growth below the peak decades earlier in the 20th century. Productivity growth in the U.S. slowed again since the mid-2000s.\n\nA recent book titled \"The Great Stagnation: How America Ate All the Low-Hanging Fruit of Modern History, Got Sick and Will (Eventually) Feel better\" by Tyler Cowen is one of the latest of several stagnation books written in recent decades. \"Turning Point\" by Robert Ayres and \"The Evolution of Progress\" by C. Owen Paepke were earlier books that predicted the stagnation.\n\nA prescient analysis of stagnation and what is now called financialization was provided in the 1980s by Harry Magdoff and Paul Sweezy, coeditors of the independent socialist journal \"Monthly Review\". Magdoff was a former economic advisor to Vice President Henry A. Wallace in Roosevelt’s New Deal administration, while Sweezy was a former Harvard economics professor. In their 1987 book, \"Stagnation and the Financial Explosion\", they argued, based on Keynes, Hansen, Michał Kalecki, and Marx, and marshaling extensive empirical data, that, contrary to the usual way of thinking, stagnation or slow growth was the norm for mature, monopolistic (or oligopolistic) economies, while rapid growth was the exception.\n\nPrivate accumulation had a strong tendency to weak growth and high levels of excess capacity and unemployment/underemployment, which could, however, be countered in part by such exogenous factors as state spending (military and civilian), epoch-making technological innovations (for example, the automobile in its expansionary period), and the growth of finance. In the 1980s and 1990s Magdoff and Sweezy argued that a financial explosion of long duration was lifting the economy, but this would eventually compound the contradictions of the system, producing ever bigger speculative bubbles, and leading eventually to a resumption of overt stagnation.\n\nSecular stagnation was dusted off by Hans-Werner Sinn in a 2009 article dismissing the threat of inflation, and became popular again when Larry Summers invoked the term and concept during a 2013 speech at the IMF.\n\nHowever, \"The Economist\" criticizes secular stagnation as \"a baggy concept, arguably too capacious for its own good\". Warnings similar to secular stagnation theory have been issued after all deep recessions, but they all turned out to be wrong because they underestimated the potential of existing technologies.\n\nPaul Krugman, writing in 2014, clarified that it refers to \"the claim that underlying changes in the economy, such as slowing growth in the working-age population, have made episodes like the past five years in Europe and the United States, and the last 20 years in Japan, likely to happen often. That is, we will often find ourselves facing persistent shortfalls of demand, which can’t be overcome even with near-zero interest rates.\" At its root is \"the problem of building consumer demand at a time when people are less motivated to spend\".\n\nOne theory is that the boost in growth by the internet and technological advancement in computers of the new economy does not measure up to the boost caused by the great inventions of the past. An example of such a great invention is the assembly line production method of Fordism. The general form of the argument has been the subject of papers by Robert J. Gordon. It has also been written about by Owen. C. Paepke and Tyler Cowen. \nSecular stagnation has also been linked to the rise of the digital economy. Carl Benedikt Frey, for example, has suggested that digital technologies are much less capital-absorbing, creating only little new investment demand relative to other revolutionary technologies.\n\nAnother is that the damage done by the Great Recession was so long-lasting and permanent, so many workers will never get jobs again, that we really can't recover.\n\nA third is that there is a \"persistent and disturbing reluctance of businesses to invest and consumers to spend\", perhaps in part because so much of the recent gains have gone to the people at the top, and they tend to save more of their money than people—ordinary working people who can't afford to do that.\n\nAnd a fourth is that advanced economies are just simply paying the price for years of inadequate investment in infrastructure and education, the basic ingredients of growth.\n\nJapan has been suffering economic or secular stagnation for most of the period since the early 1990s. Economists, such as Paul Krugman, attribute the stagnation to a liquidity trap (a situation in which monetary policy is unable to lower nominal interest rates because these are close to zero) exacerbated by demographics factors.\n\nEconomists have asked whether the low economic growth rate in the developed world leading up to and following the subprime mortgage crisis of 2007–2008 was due to secular stagnation. Paul Krugman wrote in September 2013: \"[T]here is a case for believing that the problem of maintaining adequate aggregate demand is going to be very persistent – that we may face something like the 'secular stagnation' many economists feared after World War II.\" Krugman wrote that fiscal policy stimulus and higher inflation (to achieve a negative real rate of interest necessary to achieve full employment) may be potential solutions.\n\nLarry Summers presented his view during November 2013 that secular (long-term) stagnation may be a reason that U.S. growth is insufficient to reach full employment: \"Suppose then that the short term real interest rate that was consistent with full employment [i.e., the \"natural rate\"] had fallen to negative two or negative three percent. Even with artificial stimulus to demand you wouldn't see any excess demand. Even with a resumption in normal credit conditions you would have a lot of difficulty getting back to full employment.\"\n\nRobert J. Gordon wrote in August 2012: \"Even if innovation were to continue into the future at the rate of the two decades before 2007, the U.S. faces six headwinds that are in the process of dragging long-term growth to half or less of the 1.9 percent annual rate experienced between 1860 and 2007. These include demography, education, inequality, globalization, energy/environment, and the overhang of consumer and government debt. A provocative 'exercise in subtraction' suggests that future growth in consumption per capita for the bottom 99 percent of the income distribution could fall below 0.5 percent per year for an extended period of decades\".\n\nThe German Institute for Economic Research sees a connection between secular stagnation and the regime of low interest rates (Zero interest-rate policy, negative interest rates).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "432447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432447", "title": "Food sovereignty", "text": "Food sovereignty\n\n\"Food sovereignty\", a term coined by members of Via Campesina in 1996, asserts that the people who produce, distribute, and consume food should control the mechanisms and policies of food production and distribution, rather than the corporations and market institutions they believe have come to dominate the global food system. It also encompasses the right of peoples to healthy and culturally appropriate food and their right to define their own food and agriculture systems. The phrase \"culturally appropriate\" signifies that the food that is available and accessible for the population should fit with the cultural background of the people consuming it.\n\nThe history of food sovereignty as a movement is relatively young. However, there are a number of key movements and countries that have made significant steps towards making an alternative food system a reality.\n\nAt the Forum for Food Sovereignty in Sélingué, Mali, 27 February 2007, about 500 delegates from more than 80 countries adopted the \"Declaration of Nyéléni\", which says in part:\n\nFood sovereignty is the right of peoples to healthy and culturally appropriate food produced through ecologically sound and sustainable methods, and their right to define their own food and agriculture systems. It puts those who produce, distribute and consume food at the heart of food systems and policies rather than the demands of markets and corporations. It defends the interests and inclusion of the next generation. It offers a strategy to resist and dismantle the current corporate trade and food regime, and directions for food, farming, pastoral and fisheries systems determined by local producers. Food sovereignty prioritises local and national economies and markets and empowers peasant and family farmer-driven agriculture, artisanal fishing, pastoralist-led grazing, and food production, distribution and consumption based on environmental, social and economic sustainability.\n\nIn April 2008 the International Assessment of Agricultural Science and Technology for Development (IAASTD), an intergovernmental panel under the sponsorship of the United Nations and the World Bank, adopted the following definition: \"Food sovereignty is defined as the right of peoples and sovereign states to democratically determine their own agricultural and food policies.\"\n\nIn September 2008, Ecuador became the first country to enshrine food sovereignty in its constitution. As of late 2008, a law is in the draft stages that is expected to expand upon this constitutional provision by banning genetically modified organisms, protecting many areas of the country from extraction of non-renewable resources, and to discourage monoculture. The law as drafted will also protect biodiversity as collective intellectual property and recognize the Rights of Nature.\n\nSince then another five countries have integrated food sovereignty into their national constitutions or laws. These countries are Venezuela, Mali, Bolivia, Nepal and Senegal; and most recently Egypt (2014 Constitution). \n\nIn 2011 more than 400 people from 34 European countries met from the 16th to 21 August in Krems, Austria, to plan the development of a European movement for food sovereignty. The meeting included people from the Atlantic to the Urals and Caucasus, as well as from the Arctic to the Mediterranean. These people included international representatives from diverse social movements and civil society organisations.\n\nBy coming together they aimed to build on the foundations of the Mali forum in 2007. The objectives were to strengthen local involvement; build a sense of common purpose and understanding; create a joint agenda for action; celebrate the struggle for food sovereignty in Europe; and inspire and motivate people and organisations to work together.\n\nThe forum, which was organised on the principles of participation and consensus decision making, used methods to avoid institutionalised prejudices that are inherent in society (such as gender, age, language, occupation). It did this by making a concerted effort to allow for all sections of society to be included in the discussion.\n\nThe forum allowed producers and activists from projects across Europe to share skills, coordinate actions and discuss perspectives. The forum culminated in the Nyéléni declaration.<\"Nyeleni Europe declaration\">\n\nSince 2011 Europe-wide gatherings and actions have continued, including the Good Food March, where citizens, youth and farmers came together to call for a greener and fairer agricultural policy in Europe, as well as democratic reform of Europe’s Common Agricultural Policy.\n\nFood sovereignty was born in response to campaigners' disillusion with food security, the dominant global discourse on food provisioning and policy. The latter emphasises access to adequate nutrition for all, which may be provided by food from one's own country or from global imports. In the name of efficiency and enhanced productivity, it has therefore served to promote what has been termed the \"corporate food regime\": large-scale, industrialised corporate farming based on specialised production, land concentration and trade liberalisation. Food security’s inattention to the political economy of the corporate food regime blinds it to the adverse effects of that regime, notably the widespread dispossession of small producers and global ecological degradation.\n\nHaiti can be seen as a case study. Migration from the countryside to cities has reflected a transition from subsistence agriculture to factory labor. Farmers were forced to make this move because of heavy imports of \"Miami rice\", with which their natively-grown rice could not compete in the local market. By 2008, Haiti was importing 80 percent of its rice, leaving them extremely vulnerable to price and supply fluctuations. When the price of rice did triple in 2008, many Haitians could not afford to buy it.\n\nWriting in Food First's \"Backgrounder\", fall 2003, Peter Rosset argues that \"food sovereignty goes beyond the concept of \"food security\"... [Food security] means that... [everyone] must have the certainty of having enough to eat each day[,] ... but says nothing about where that food comes from or how it is produced.\" Food sovereignty includes support for smallholders and for collectively owned farms, fisheries, etc., rather than industrializing these sectors in a minimally regulated global economy. In another publication, Food First describes \"food sovereignty\" as \"a platform for rural revitalization at a global level based on equitable distribution of farmland and water, farmer control over seeds, and productive small-scale farms supplying consumers with healthy, locally grown food.\"\n\nFood justice is a similar concept, but its discourses focuses more on race and class inequities and their relation to food, whereas food sovereignty refers more so to agency over food production systems.\n\nThe Green Revolution is upheld by some proponents of food security as a success story in increasing crop yields and combating world hunger. However, many in the food sovereignty movement are critical of the green revolution and accuse those who advocate it as following too much of a Western culture technocratic program that is out of touch with the needs of majority of small producers and peasants.\n\nThe ‘green revolution’ refers to developments in plant breeding between the 1960s and 1980s that improved yields from major cereal crops, particularly wheat and rice, and other staple crops. The main focus was on the research, development and transfer of agricultural technology, such as hybrid seeds and fertilisers, through massive private and public investment that went into transforming agriculture in a number of countries, starting in Mexico and India.\n\nWhile the green revolution may have produced more food, world hunger continues because it did not address the problems of access. Food sovereignty advocates argue that the green revolution failed to alter the highly concentrated distribution of economic power, and if anything, exacerbated it – particularly access to land and purchasing power.\n\nSome critics argue that globally the green revolution caused vast environmental destruction though the increased use of herbicides which caused dramatic loss in biodiversity. There was also a loss of traditional knowledge as farmers relied more heavily of biotechnological inputs. The green revolution favored wealthy, large scale farmers and forced many smaller, poorer farmers into debt.\n\nSome of these views are supported by the World Bank- and UN-sponsored IAASTD report. The focus on technology paid no regard to who controlled that technology and ignored the knowledge of the people who were expected to adopt it. Results included significant biodiversity loss due to the mass adoption of hybrid seeds and soil erosion.\n\nThe adoption of genetically modified (GMOs) cropping by the government of Western Australia in 2010 and the subsequent failure of crop segregation has led to the contamination of at least one organic farm by Monsanto's GM canola. The organic certification of the certified organic farm of Steve and Sue Marsh was withdrawn in 2010 due to GM contamination. A court case in the Supreme Court of Western Australia for nuisance and negligence failed to achieve any relief or protection for the organic farm. However, the organic certification of the Marsh farm was reinstated in 2013.\n\nIt is in its capacity as a social movement that food regime analysts are interested in food sovereignty. With its Marxist influences, food regime theorists are interested in how moments of crisis within a particular food regime are expressive of the dialectical tension that animates movement between such configurations (i.e., periods of transition). According to leading theorist Philip McMichael, food regimes are always characterised by contradictory forces. Consolidation of a regime does not so much resolve as it does contain, or else strategically accommodate, these tensions; meanwhile, their intensification, often via the mobilisations of social movements, often signals a period of transition.\n\nAccording to McMichael, a \"world agriculture\" under the WTO Agreement on Agriculture (\"food from nowhere\") represents one pole of the \"central contradiction\" of the present regime. He is interested in the food sovereignty movement’s potential to escalate the tension between this and its opposing pole, the agroecology-based localism (\"food from somewhere\") advocated by various grassroots food movements. Offering slightly different conclusions, recent work by Harriet Friedmann suggests that \"food from somewhere\" is already being co-opted under an emergent \"corporate-environmental\" regime (cf. Campbell 2009).\n\nSome scholars argue that the Food Sovereignty movement follows wrong baseline assumptions (small-scale farming is not necessarily a freely chosen life-style and farmers in least developed and highly developed countries do not face the same challenges). The Food Sovereignty movement may be right about the mistakes of neoliberal economic ideology, but it is silent about the fact that many famines actually occurred under socialist and communist regimes that pursued the goal of food self-sufficiency (cf. Aerni 2011).\n\nThere is a lack of consensus within the food sovereignty movement regarding the political or jurisdictional community at which its calls for democratisation and renewed \"agrarian citizenship\" (cf. Wittman 2009) are directed. In public statements, the food sovereignty movement urges for strong sovereign powers for both national governments and local communities (in the vein of the indigenous rights movement, Community-Based Natural Resource Management (CBNRM) and the like) (elsewhere it has also appealed to global civil society to act as a check against abuses by national and supranational governing bodies).\n\nThose who take a radically critical view on state sovereignty would argue against the possibility that national sovereignty can be reconciled with that of local communities (see also the debate about multiculturalism and indigenous autonomy in Mexico ). On the other hand, Raj Patel is more favourable towards this prospect: for Patel, an adapted version of Seyla Benhabib’s Kantian-inspired cosmopolitan federalism – involving multiple, layered geographies of democratic attachment and jurisdiction – could offer a promising vehicle for the realisation of food sovereignty on a large scale. Patel’s important proviso here is that a stronger version of Benhabib’s accompanying principle of moral universalism is also pursued. By Patel’s assessment, the food sovereignty movement is showing promising signs of moving towards the radical egalitarianism and democratic praxis that such a model entails.\n\nIn its strong reassertion of rural and peasant identities and forms of social reproduction, the food sovereignty movement has been read as a sharp challenge to modernist narratives of inexorable urbanisation, industrialisation of agriculture and de-peasantisation. However, as part of ongoing debates over the contemporary relevance of the \"agrarian question\" in classical Marxism, Henry Bernstein is critical of these largely celebratory accounts. Specifically, levels Bernstein, such analyses tend to present the agrarian population as a unified, singular and world-historical social category. Therefore, they fail to account, in any more than a gestural manner, for:\nIn so doing, these accounts cannot escape a certain agrarian populism (or agrarianism) according to Bernstein (for a response to Bernstein, see McMichael (2009)).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18270950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18270950", "title": "Home equity protection", "text": "Home equity protection\n\nHome price protection is an agreement that pays the homeowner if a particular home price index declines in value over a period of time after the protection is purchased. The protection is for a new or existing homeowner that wishes to protect the value of their home from future market declines.\n\nIn 1999, Robert J. Shiller and Alan N. Weiss published an overview of the idea. Two similar programs had been tried in Illinois by municipalities: a 1978 Oak Park plan, which had never had a claim as of 1999, and a broader program covering the city of Chicago passed by voter referendum in 1987 and implemented in 1990.\n\nAnother program was initiated 2002 as several scholars at Yale University worked in conjunction with a program in Syracuse, NY, which was developed with the intent of increasing home ownership in neighborhoods on the verge of collapse that were marred by ever declining home prices. The Syracuse non-profit program, called Home Headquarters, was sponsored by the Syracuse Neighborhood Initiative, and a homeowner could protect the value of their home for a one-time fee of 1.5% of the home's value. In many cases, a local organization would pay the fee for the homeowner if they agreed to live in the home for 3 years. Similar programs were developed in other municipalities to encourage home ownership in specific areas that were considered to be at risk of losing home value due to increased rental conversions and other factors.\n\nOn December 4, 2008 at the height of the real estate crisis Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke suggested that what the real estate market needed to recover was a hedge to restore confidence.\n\nAny protection contract is essentially providing a hedge to the owner against declining home prices. The provider (protection seller) of the contract will generally have a significant reserve in place and will also hedge their risk using housing futures from the CBOE Chicago Board Options Exchange & CME Chicago Board of Trade and other real estate short strategies to help mitigate losses. Some providers utilize reinsurance from A rated carriers to provide more durable secondary risk protection.\n\nLosses are generally measured by a nationally recognized house price index such as Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight (OFHEO), Radar Logic, First American Core Logic, or the S&P Case-Shiller index.\n\nMost home equity protection products are not insurance and do not require an insurable interest from the buyer of protection, however some providers offer an insurance version of the product.\n\nThere are some similarities with swaps, particularly total return swap and credit default swaps.\n\nCompanies offering the product include EquityLock. \n\nAlternatively, it is possible to hedge the risk of a housing price decline using Case-Shiller Futures.\n\nWaiting periods are required in many of the programs to prevent the owner of the home price protection agreement from gaming the system.\n\nThe protection generally covers all sales to unrelated parties including short sales but will not cover foreclosures.\n\n"}
{"id": "4615666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4615666", "title": "Institute of the Czech Language", "text": "Institute of the Czech Language\n\nThe Institute of the Czech Language (, \"ÚJČ\") is a scientific institution dedicated to the study of the Czech language. It is one of the institutes of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. Its headquarters are in Prague and it has a branch in Brno.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, the institute is widely accepted as the regulatory body of the Czech language. Its recommendations on standard Czech () are viewed as binding by the educational system, newspapers and others, although this has no legal basis.\n\nThe institute's rich publishing activity has two main branches, firstly scientific monographies, magazines (, ) and articles, that could be viewed as conversation between bohemists themselves, discussing matters of the Czech language. Secondly, what could be considered output of these discussions, is a consistent set of rules on vocabulary, grammar and orthography. Of the recommendations published most weight carry those, to which the institute itself assigns \"codification status\": monolingual dictionaries of the Czech language, \"Slovník spisovného jazyka českého\" and \"Slovník spisovné češtiny pro školu a veřejnost\", and the grammar manual \"Pravidla českého pravopisu\". The recommendations published in new editions of these are usually subsequently accepted by a ministry of education to be used in schools. The publication of new editions has often been a source of heated debate and national controversy, as recently as 1993.\n\nThe approach of the institute is decidedly prescriptive, in that it leaves uncodified all varieties other than standard, such as common Czech spoken by many Czechs.\n\nThe institute was created in 1946, by transformation of the former Office for the Czech Lexicon (), founded in 1911 by the former Czech Academy of Sciences and Arts. In 1953 it became a part of the Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences and became a public research institution in 2007.\n\nThere have been unsuccessful attempts to enshrine the position of the Czech language and its minders in legislation, akin to the Language law of Slovakia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "421112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=421112", "title": "Keep Left (pamphlet)", "text": "Keep Left (pamphlet)\n\nKeep Left was a pamphlet published in the United Kingdom in 1947 by the \"New Statesman\" that was written by Michael Foot, Richard Crossman and Ian Mikardo. It advocated a democratic socialist \"third force\" foreign policy, a socialist Europe acting independently from either the United States or the Soviet Union, against the pro-American foreign policy of Labour foreign secretary Ernest Bevin. \"Keep Left\" was a key statement of the Labour left's dissent from the 1945-51 Labour government.\n"}
{"id": "35633301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35633301", "title": "Klara shelter", "text": "Klara shelter\n\nKlara air raid shelter (), also known as the Klara bunker, is one of Stockholm's major civil air raid shelters, with an area of 6,650 m². The shelter is designed for civilians and members of government, and is located in central Stockholm. The shelter was built during the Cold War, in the 1960s, as central Stockholm was being reformed during the \"Redevelopment of Norrmalm\". Klara shelter is named after the nearby Klara Church.\n\nThe air raid shelter complex is designed to protect large parts of the government and civilian population of the city in the case of a military attack on Stockholm. The facility is still shelter-rated, and additionally provides 296 parking spaces, primarily for long-term parking.\nThe basic design of the complex is a two-story oval, situated below Sergels torg (Sergel's Square), Klara Church, and adjacent areas, with multiple entrances. The shelter can accommodate 8,000 people in time of war or other danger. The machine room includes five large generators. In the case of failure of the civil power grid, these units could generate enough energy to power and light the entire complex. If war had broken out between the 1960s-1980s, two thirds of the Parliament and Government members would have been housed in a separate part of Klara shelters, while the third would be sent to a rock shelter elsewhere.\n\nThe shelter has several entrances and escape routes. Beside the entrance to the building, a ramp provides vehicle access to the parking area, from which the shelter can be reached through an understated access door (see photo, right). Partway down the stairs (which are removable) leading from Drottninggatan to the \"plate\" in Sergel's Square, there is another entrance. Additional entrances are from the old subway entrance next to Klara Church, which has been converted to lead straight down to the shelter, from T-Centralen (the T-Centre Metro station), from the parking garages around the Klara district, and from the Kungsträdgården metro station. Large parts of the shelter are used in peacetime as parking garages, for example Vattugaraget at Vattugatan.\n\nAccess is via staircases about 10 meters wide, currently blocked by removable walls and protected by 70-ton steel doors. To keep the air temperature bearable during protection operations (15,000 people producing a lot of heat), there is a large air conditioning plant.\n"}
{"id": "43040755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43040755", "title": "Lisa Graves", "text": "Lisa Graves\n\nLisa Graves is a progressive activist who is senior fellow and former executive director of the Center for Media and Democracy (CMD). She served in this role from 2009 to 2017, when she became president of True North Research and co-director of DocumentedInvestigations.org. Graves also serves on the advisory board of UnKoch.\n\nGraves received her J.D. degree from Cornell Law School. She previously served as the Chief Counsel for Nominations on the United States Senate Judiciary Committee under Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont) and as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the United States Department of Justice during the Clinton Administration. Graves also worked as the Senior Legislative Strategist on national security issues for the American Civil Liberties Union, and as an adjunct professor at the George Washington University Law School.\n\nGraves joined the progressive watchdog group Center for Media and Democracy in 2009 as executive director. Graves has investigated and reported on the Koch Brothers, the American Legislative Exchange Council, and the State Policy Network.\n\nIn 2012, Graves was interviewed about the Center for Media and Democracy project \"ALEC Exposed\" for the Bill Moyers documentary film \"United States of ALEC.\" \n\nIn 2016, Graves was interviewed in Ava DuVernay's documentary 13th.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218185", "title": "List of anarchist communities", "text": "List of anarchist communities\n\nThis is a list of anarchist communities representing any society or portion thereof founded by anarchists that functions according to anarchist philosophy and principles. Anarchists have been involved in a wide variety of community experiments since the 19th century. There are numerous instances in which a community organizes itself along philosophically anarchist lines to promote regional anarchist movements, counter-economics and countercultures. These have included intentional communities founded by anarchists as social experiments and community oriented projects, such as collective organizations and cooperative businesses. There are also several instances of mass society \"anarchies\" that have come about from explicitly anarchist revolutions, including the Free Territory of Ukraine and the Shinmin autonomous region in Manchuria. As well as these countries : Switzerland Norway Germany Israel America and turkey\n\nActive societies:\n\nPast societies:\n\n\nActive communities:\nPast communities:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54692641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54692641", "title": "List of anti-cannabis organizations", "text": "List of anti-cannabis organizations\n\nThe following is a list of anti-cannabis organizations and campaigns:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "421422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=421422", "title": "List of security hacking incidents", "text": "List of security hacking incidents\n\nThe timeline of computer security hacker history covers important and noteworthy events in the history of security hacking and cracking.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3896093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3896093", "title": "Massachusetts State Auditor", "text": "Massachusetts State Auditor\n\nThe Massachusetts State Auditor is a statewide elected office in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts responsible for conducting financial, performance, and technical assessments of state programs, departments, agencies, authorities, contracts, and vendors. The current State Auditor is Suzanne Bump (D).\n\n"}
{"id": "33771247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33771247", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Spain)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food (Spain)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food () also known as MAPAMA is a ministerial department of the Government of Spain. Its headquarters is in the Ministry of Agriculture Building, an emblematic nineteenth-century edifice located in Madrid, Spain.\n\nThe Ministry is responsible for assigning Veterinary Surgeons to carry out checks in regard to the issuing of REGA Licences (\"Registro de Explotación\") a requirement for the ownership of horses on Spanish property and small holdings.\n\nThis department included until 2018 the tasks of the former Ministry of Environment. These competences now belong to the Ministry for the Ecological Transition.\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and Food is a department of the General Administration responsible for:\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food is organised in the following superior bodies:\n\nIt also has some autonomous bodies which belong to the Ministry but they have their own budget:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4526380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4526380", "title": "Ministry of National Security of Azerbaijan", "text": "Ministry of National Security of Azerbaijan\n\nThe Azerbaijan Ministry of National Security (MNS, Azerbaijani: Milli Təhlukəsizlik Nazirliyi) was an intelligence agency within the cabinet of Azerbaijan. The MNS was a central executive authority that carried out the competencies designated to it by the legislation of the Republic of Azerbaijan in the field of obtaining and analyzing information about foreign affairs, corporations, individuals. The MNS also carried out intelligence, counter-intelligence, protection of state secrets, revealing, preventing, precluding and detection of crimes. On 14 December 2015, President Ilham Aliyev signed a decree dissolving the ministry and creating a National Security Service with domestic duties and a foreign intelligence service.\n\nMinistry of National Security of Azerbaijan was established on the material-technical and personnel basis of the Soviet Committee of State Security (KGB) on November 1, 1991. Within a short period of time, representatives of other nationalities had left the Ministry and Azerbaijan, the process of staffing Ministry only by the national specialists had begun. Not only the name and the personnel of the security body had changed, but primary change the Ministry faced was its mission and duties.\n\nThe Ministry was guided by the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the laws of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the decrees of President, the decisions and decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, the international treaties of which Azerbaijan was a part, its statute, and other normative-legal acts of the MNS.\n\nThe MNS headquarters were in the following cities:\n\n\nThe MNS has ties to several foreign intelligence agencies including National Intelligence Organization, Mossad and others.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50189312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50189312", "title": "Minnie M. Kenny", "text": "Minnie M. Kenny\n\nMinnie M. Kenny (1929–August 17, 2005) was a cryptanalyst, educator and equal opportunity activist who worked at the National Security Agency (NSA). She served as Deputy Commandant at the National Cryptologic School and was responsible for creating scholarships for NSA employees. The recipient of numerous awards, including the Meritorious and the Exceptional Civilian Service Awards, the presidential Meritorious Executive Award and Distinguished Service Award of the CIA, Kenny was inducted into the Cryptologic Hall of Honor in 2009.\n\nMinnie McNeal was born in 1929 in Philadelphia. After graduating from the Philadelphia High School for Girls, she worked for the Philadelphia Commerce Department and the United States Census Bureau in Washington, D. C., before being hired in 1951 to work at Arlington Hall for the Army Security Agency. She was part of the first group of African Americans who were allowed to work upstairs in the Operations Division, out of the basement, and was assigned to the 'U' Street School for training. After her training and the change of the organization from military footing to the National Security Agency in 1952, McNeal was assigned as a communications clerk to the ALLO (All Other (non-Soviet)) linguistics unit. She was particularly well known for her expertise in cryptanalysis, language and traffic analysis and worked with an elite \"think tank\" at NSA, to develop programs for cryptanalysis and language, serving as chair of the agency's Language Panel. In 1972, McNeal married Herbert Cornelius Kenny, one of the singers of The Ink Spots, with whom she had a daughter Daphne.\n\nIn 1973, Kenny became the founding editor of NSA's Group B journal \"Dragon Seeds\" and pressed for each cryptanalyst to have their own personal computer as a necessary tool. From 1975 to 1981, she served in the Office of Techniques and Standards of the NSA, as the chief of the language and linguistics. In 1980, she was the recipient of the Meritorious Civilian Service Award. Beginning in 1982, Kenny served as Deputy Commandant at the National Cryptologic School, and worked with traditional Black colleges and universities to increase diversity. She introduced computer assisted teaching techniques and founded the Computer Assisted Learning and Instruction Consortium (CALICO) to bring professional language teachers and those who use language together in an international association. In 1984, Kenny was awarded a second civilian honor, the Exceptional Civilian Service Award by the NSA and both presidents Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush awarded her with the Meritorious Executive Award. After a decade working to improve the school, Kenny served on the Department of Defense Congressional Task Force on Women, Minorities, and the Handicapped in Science and Technology and as the NSA Director for Equal Employment Opportunity, before her 1993 retirement. She was a recipient of the Central Intelligence Agency's Distinguished Service Award.\n\nKenny then served as a Congressional Fellow on the staff of Congressman Louis Stokes and worked on the drafting of the Underground Railroad Act of 1997, which was designed to preserve and protect the history of significant buildings associated with the historic organization.\n\nKenny died August 17, 2005, in Columbia, Maryland, and was buried at St. John's Cemetery in Ellicott City, Maryland. Posthumously, in 2009, she was inducted into the Cryptologic Hall of Honor.\n\n"}
{"id": "45253066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45253066", "title": "Missing Middle Housing", "text": "Missing Middle Housing\n\nMissing Middle Housing consists of multi-unit housing types such as duplexes, fourplexes, bungalow courts, and mansion apartments that are not bigger than a large house, that are integrated throughout most walkable pre-1940s neighborhoods, often integrated into blocks with primarily single-family homes, and that provide diverse housing choices and generate enough density to support transit and locally-serving commercial amenities. Although many of these are a common feature in pre-war building stocks, these housing types have become much less common (hence the “missing”). The term was coined by architect and urban planner Daniel Parolek, Principal and Founder of Opticos Design, Inc.\n\nThe American Association for Retired Persons recently released a new report, which showed that more and more, Americans want to “age in place,” and need easy access to services and amenities available in walkable, urban, transit-oriented communities.\n\nMillennials have also been shown to drive less, and seek housing choices in walkable neighborhoods close to transit. The numbers of automobile miles traveled increased each year between 1946 and 2004; today Americans drive less than 2004, and no more per person than in 1996. The decline in driving is most striking among young people aged 16 to 34, who drove 23% fewer miles on average in 2009 than their age group did in 2001.\n\n“Millennials prefer amenity rich housing choices. These amenities are within walking distance,” presented Howard Ways of the Redevelopment Authority of Prince George's County in Washington D.C. “They prefer smaller units with open floor plans and are not interested in yard work at all.”\n\n“There’s a convergence of the demand created by Baby Boomers who are moving back, not just into city centers but into surrounding single-family neighborhoods, and the Millennials who want walkable urban living. The demand is just going to continue to grow,\" said Dan Parolek in an article on the National Association of Realtors website. “I find in my development work my primary buyers are empty nester Boomers who are selling the big house, the big lot, the kids are grown and gone, and they’re looking for more lifestyle freedom,” said Linda of The Cottage Company in the same article.\n\n\"The structure of the traditional North American suburb has failed to live up to the expectations of many who settled in suburban neighbourhoods, and new ways are being sought to re-engineer suburban living and re-build those settlement patterns.\" — Innovations in Small-scale Living from North America, Small Housing B.C.\n\n\nSource:\n\nMissing Middle Housing offers greater choice in housing types that still blend into existing single family neighborhoods, unlike mid-rise apartment buildings. They are typically more affordable than a single-family home because they are smaller and share communal parking and lawns. These building types typically have a residential unit density in the range of 16 to 30 units per acre but are often perceived as being less dense because they are smaller in scale.\n\nResidents of The Cottage Company's cottage court developments are looking for a detached housing option that is smaller in size and requires less maintenance than a single-family home. The cottage court concept meets that need by grouping several small detached houses around shared lawns and parking. Residents get the benefit of their own detached home, and association fees take care of the lawn and parking maintenance. The most prevalent demographic groups in The Cottage Company's cottage court housing tend to be single women, empty nesters, and young professional couples.\n\nPursuing these housing types can also offer a financial benefit to developers. In a recent blog post, Daniel Parolek writes that a small infill builder in Norman, OK, recently made the decision to renovate an existing fourplex rather than turning it into a duplex. \"He told me that if he had renovated the building into a duplex like he had planned before talking to me, he was expecting to get $600/month per bedroom and each unit would have been three bedrooms for a total of $3,600 in revenue per month for the two units. He was happy to tell me that he is now renting each of the one-bedroom units for $1,000 each for $4,000 in total monthly revenue. That is an 11% increase in monthly revenue! In this one project Keith has blown the top off of this market and is getting $1,000 per bedroom for these small, well-designed micro units located in a walkable context,\" Parolek wrote.\n\nLloyd Alter of Treehugger says there is a certain amount of density required for building green cities that support transit-oriented development, but that you don't want it to be too dense. \"I have made the case that you don't want it too high; that there is a Goldilocks density that's just right. One form of housing that gets close to Goldilocks is the stacked townhouse,\" he writes.\n\nPortland, OR, has a number of historic Missing Middle housing types located throughout the city, most of which are duplexes, that were built before the 1920s before the city's first zoning plan was approved. Zoning for single-family homes was expanded in the 1950s and the building of duplexes or triplexes largely became illegal in Portland. Some local developers are now advocating for these Missing Middle types, saying that they are key to building the bike-friendly neighborhoods Portland is known for.\n\nSouth Main in Buena Vista, CO, founded by siblings Jed Selby and Katie Selby Urban.\n\nHamilton Square is a Missing Middle Housing project in Novato, CA, on a two-and-a-half acre site located on the former Hamilton Air Force Base along Main Gate Road. The site plan includes a variety of buildings oriented around a 4,380-square foot square with a postal pavilion less than a quarter mile from the future SMART Station area.\n\nConover Commons is a community developed by The Cottage Company in Kirkland, Wash.\n\nHabersham is a waterfront New Urbanist community near Beaufort, S.C. Habersham features Missing Middle housing types including cottages, granny flats, townhouses, live/work lofts, and mansion apartments. The town plan was designed by Duany Plater-Zyberk & Co., the Miami architects who were among the founders of New Urbanism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22719622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22719622", "title": "National Security Agency (Montenegro)", "text": "National Security Agency (Montenegro)\n\nThe National Security Agency (Montenegrin: Agencija za Nacionalnu Bezbjednost; ANB) is the national intelligence agency of Montenegro. Its headquarters are located in Podgorica.\n\nAccording to the law governing ANB, the agency is tasked with collecting, storing, analyzing, assessing, exchanging and guarding \n\n\nANB is also responsible for counterintelligence protection of Parliament of Montenegro, Government of Montenegro, President of Montenegro, and other Government bodies and ministries, pertaining to activities significant to security of personnel, buildings and assets of aforementioned institutions. \n\nContemporary history of state intelligence in Montenegro can be traced to 13 May 1944, when OZNA was formed, as part of Yugoslav People's Army, with autonomous center of territorial intelligence in Montenegro. OZNA was split from the Army in March 1946, and incorporated in Ministry of Interior, thus becoming civilian intelligence agency. Within the Yugoslav army, KOS was formed as military counterintelligence agency, while civilian branch (now attached to Ministry of Interior) was renamed UDB.\n\nIn May 2005, National Security Agency was formed as a separate Government agency, inheriting the employees and assets from Montenegrin UDB. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "12686914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12686914", "title": "National Women's Liberal Commission", "text": "National Women's Liberal Commission\n\nThe National Women's Liberal Commission is the women's wing of the Liberal Party of Canada. Its current president since January 2012 is Mary Pynenburg\n\nIt traces its origins to the National Federation of Liberal Women of Canada in 1928.\n\n"}
{"id": "24485204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24485204", "title": "Negative vote weight", "text": "Negative vote weight\n\nNegative vote weight (also known as \"inverse success value\") refers to an effect that occurs in certain elections where votes can have the opposite effect of what the voter intended. A vote for a party might result in the loss of seats in parliament, or the party might gain extra seats by not receiving votes.\n\nThe effect that a vote for a party might result in the loss of a seat is contrary to the requirement that every vote in a democratic election should have the same weight. It also violates the requirement that the vote may not explicitly run counter to the intention of the voter.\n\nThe phenomenon of negative vote weight occurred in several past federal elections in Germany, including the election in 2009. The negative vote weight could occur in a state where a party had overhang seats. In such states, in many circumstances a vote for a party will not increase its national seat total (MMP allocations are calculated at the national level in Germany), but may increase the proportion of the party's national seats to be allocated to the state where it already had overhang seats (overhang seats being allocated at the state level). This effectively decreased the party's total seat count, and a voter would have been better served by not voting for that party.\n\nHowever, the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany ruled on 3 July 2008 that this was unconstitutional, as a negative vote weight is incompatible with the constitutional guarantee of equality and directness. Accordingly, the election law was changed in February 2013.\n\nNegative vote weight is possible in national elections in the Czech Republic and Romania. It can also occur in some of the Austrian states' local elections. In both cases, however, the incidence is lower, and the effect is less pronounced than in Germany.\n\nNegative vote weight can occur in popular referendums that have a vote quorum (where the proposed change is considered only if a minimum number of people vote). A vote \"against\" the proposal can cause the quorum to be satisfied and thus result in the acceptance of the proposal. For this reason, some popular referendums aim for an approving quorum where the proposed change is only considered if a minimum number of people vote \"for\" the proposal.\n\n"}
{"id": "11544568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11544568", "title": "No-cost campaign", "text": "No-cost campaign\n\nNo-cost campaign is a term coined initially by a Stanford student. It refers to a political campaign in which the candidates run without funding. Based on a foundation and the principles of Web 2.0 networking, the original essay analyzes the potential of social networking site Digg.com. Because Web 2.0 follows the democratic principle of being powered by the masses, it is a well-suited medium for political campaigning, and could save hundreds of millions of dollars in campaign money.\n\n"}
{"id": "20132880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20132880", "title": "Oleksa Dovbush", "text": "Oleksa Dovbush\n\nOleksa Dovbush () (born 1700, Pechenizhyn Kolomyia— died 24 August 1745) was a famous Ukrainian outlaw, leader of opryshky, who became a folk hero, often compared to Robin Hood.\n\nOleksa was born in the Hutsul village of Pechenizhyn in the Carpathian Mountains in the early 18th century. He became the leader of his own band that consisted of almost 50 members (\"leheni\"). Popular tradition portrays him as a protector to the poor people of the region. There are few written references left of him and his activities.\n\nThe many folk songs and the few prose legends that still survive in Prykarpattia portray him as a local hero who robbed the rich and helped the poor serfs, like the mythical Robin Hood. His residence is believed to be located near the city of Bolekhiv in Ivano-Frankivsk oblast. It is a rock complex that is called the Rocks of Dovbush which was nominated in the seven historical and seven natural wonders of Ukraine. Dovbush's deeds became so admired that the tales of his acts spread beyond the Hutsul region to the neighboring Pokuttia and Podillya regions of western Ukraine. His portraits were sold at local market places. He was feared by Polish szlachta (landowning nobility). Once, a military expedition of 2000 soldiers, headed by Polish magnate Józef Potocki, was sent to stop his activities. Nonetheless, he could not be captured. Dovbush was shot and mortally wounded by one Stefan, the husband of his lover Dzvinka, in 1745.\n\nAccording to Hassidic legend, Dovbush at one time hid in the house of Baal Shem Tov and gave him his pipe as a token of friendship.\n\nAfter his death, his legacy was extended by several of his companions and/or people that idolized him: Vasyl Bayurak (a memorial plate is erected in Ivano-Frankivsk that mentions of his execution), Maksym Zalizniak, Ustym Karmaliuk, and many others.\n\nHis legend entered Ukrainian folklore and was the subject of various artistic works, by, among others, the writers Ivan Franko and Yuriy Fedkovych. A film was made about him, and there are streets and locations named after him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55783773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55783773", "title": "Promissione ducale", "text": "Promissione ducale\n\nThe promissione ducale () was an oath of office sworn by the incoming Doge of Venice. It contained not only an oath of allegiance to the Republic of Venice, but also spelled out the constitutional limitations to the Doge's power, which he swore to abide by.\n\nThe \"promissione\" had its origins in the oaths of office sworn by civil magistrates in the Italian city-states (communes), covering both the established legal order, and the exercise of jurisdiction by the magistrates. Thus in Venice too, the Doges of Venice were accustomed to take such oaths, or \"promissioni\", which covered both matters political as well as matters of criminal law; the earliest of which is the collection of penal guidelines known as the \"promissione del maleficio\" of Orio Mastropiero () in 1181, which was reformed in 1195 under Enrico Dandolo ().\n\nThe political oath of office on the other hand contained a series of promises to govern and adjudicate fairly and impartially, maintain the secrets of the state, execute the deliberations of the Great Council of Venice, etc. At the same time, already in the very first surviving example, that of Doge Dandolo in 1193, it contains a set of restrictions on the Doge's power, such as a prohibition on conducting direct correspondence with foreign princes, or of meddling in the election of the Patriarch of Venice. These restrictions were increased over time, so that in 1229, after the death of Doge Pietro Ziani, a commission of five \"correctors of the ducal \"promissione\"\" (\"Correttori alle promissione ducale\") was established to revise them. In the course of the centuries the \"promissione\" became more and more extensive and from 1595 it was printed. The \"promissione ducale\" of Doge Marino Grimani () contained 108 pages, that of Doge Giovanni II Cornaro () had 165 pages, and the one for the last Doge, Ludovico Manin (), had 301 pages.\n\nNot only were the powers of the Doge circumscribed, but eventually restrictions were also extended to his relatives, primarily to avoid any danger of the office becoming hereditary: in 1473, the Doge's sons and grandsons were prohibited from being elected to any council apart from the Great Council, and three years later they were forbidden from being elected to the boards of \"savii\" as well. These restrictions were only partially lifted a few decades before the end of the Republic: in 1763, the Doge's brother and two of his sons were allowed to sit in the Venetian Senate, but without the right to vote during the Doge's lifetime. The oath equally also contained provisions regarding the Doge's spouse, the Dogaressa, including her clothing and ceremonial duties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51349495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51349495", "title": "Raymond Lefebvre", "text": "Raymond Lefebvre\n\nRaymond-Louis Lefebvre (Vire, 1891-Barents Sea, 1920) was a French writer and political activist. He attended the 2nd World Congress of the Comintern in 1920, but disappeared in the Barents Sea whilst returning.\n\nLefebvre served as a soldier during the First World War and in 1917 described his experiences in \"Le sacrifice d'Abraham\" (The Sacrifice of Abraham). He had been wounded and was revolted by the whole experience. This work placed him alongside Henri Barbusse, Georges Duhamel, Marcel Martinet – amongst others – as being one of the writers who developed a revolutionary perspective during the war. He was involved in setting up a radical veterans association, the Association Républicaine des Anciens Combattants.\n\nAfter attending the 2nd Congress of the Cominiern, he was appointed to the Provisional International Bureau of the Kultintern, an organisation set up to promote proletarian culture. \n"}
{"id": "58232792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58232792", "title": "Renegade Tribune", "text": "Renegade Tribune\n\nRenegade Tribune is an anti-Semitic, white separatist, holocaust denying, historical revisionist, white nationalist, and neo-Nazi website established in 2012 by Kyle Hunt. The website, which is part of a larger brand known as \"Renegade Broadcasting\", primarily focuses on white separatism and antisemitism. In addition to white separatist and anti-Semitic ideology being posted on the website, it also offers content based on volkisch paganism and harsh criticism of other pagans for \"wanting to ruin their bloodlines\".\n\nIn March 2018, Christine Shawcroft, who just became the chairwoman of the Labour Party disputes panel not even three months prior to the event, was found to be defending Alan Bull, a candidate who posted a link to a Renegade Tribune article along with a Facebook post that said, \"International Red Cross report confirms the Holocaust of six million Jews is a hoax\". As a response to the incident, Renegade Tribune made an article called \"UK Labour Candidate Shared Holohoax Article from Renegade Tribune, Suspended by Party\".\n"}
{"id": "28202443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28202443", "title": "Right-wing dictatorship", "text": "Right-wing dictatorship\n\nA right-wing dictatorship (sometimes also referred to as a rightist dictatorship) is an authoritarian (or sometimes totalitarian) regime whose policy could be called right-wing. There are various definitions of the term \"rightist\". The broadest one includes all dictatorships that do not consider themselves communist. Those are usually pro-capitalist in economic matters and conservative in ideological ones. The term fascist dictatorship is sometimes used interchangeably with the right-wing one. It is commonly accepted that Nazi Germany and the Kingdom of Italy were ruled by fascist governments at some points of their history, but how it refers to other right-wing regimes is a question of further debate. The Estado Novo in Portugal was a right-wing dictatorship which was corporatist in nature. Most South American dictatorships during the second half of the 20th century were right-wing: Pinochet, the Brazilian Military Government, etc. There have also been a number of military dictatorships installed by anti-communists which were generally conservative and rightist.\n\nIn the most common Western view, the perfect example of a right-wing dictatorship is any of those that once ruled in South America. Those regimes were predominantly military juntas and most of them collapsed in the 1980s. Communist countries, which were very cautious about not revealing their authoritarian methods of rule to the public, were usually led by civilian governments and officers taking power were not much welcomed there. Few exceptions include the Burmese Way to Socialism (Burma, 1966–1988), the Military Council of National Salvation (People's Republic of Poland, 1981–1983) or the North Korean regime's evolution throughout the rule of Kim Il-sung.\n\nMost right-wing regimes kept strong ties with local Churches (usually the Roman Catholic ones since most of those regimes happened in Catholic countries). This policy of a strong Church-state alliance is usually referred to as Austrofascism. The most pro-Catholic dictatorships were Portugal (1933–1974) and the Federal State of Austria (1934–1938). Non-Christian dictatorships include those in the Muslim world, the most famous being Iran since the revolution of 1979. There are several other examples of theocratic (and therefore right-wing) regimes in the region, like Somalia or Afghanistan under the Taliban. While it is unclear whether a monarchy could be called a dictatorship, theocratic absolute monarchies of Saudi Arabia or Vatican City share many similarities with the regimes mentioned above. Many of those are/were led by spiritual leaders and examples include the Slovak Republic under the Reverend Josef Tiso or Iran under the Ayatollahs Khomeini (1979–1989) and Khamenei (1989–present). Some right-wing dictatorships, like the Nazi Germany, were even openly hostile to certain religions.\n\nIn some post-communist countries, people involved in the previous regime took power in the years following the end of the Cold War. The most famous example of a European dictatorship of that sort is Belarus under Alexander Lukashenko. Belarus and Azerbaijan were both considered \"authoritarian regimes\" by the Democracy Index as of 2008. Freedom House marks them \"not-free states\" together with Russia, so whether Russia is a dictatorship or just a seriously flawed democracy is a question of further debate. All three governments are non-communist and especially in Russia sometimes stay in total opposition to the communist parties, therefore they could be called right-wing as well.\n\nConsidering a right-wing dictatorship any non-democratic (non-parliamentary or pseudo-parliamentary political system, suppression of basic freedoms such as association and speech, prosecution of opponents, etc.) regime that is not communist, the list of European examples would be as following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14694507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14694507", "title": "Rural Appalachian Improvement League", "text": "Rural Appalachian Improvement League\n\nThe Rural Appalachian Improvement League (RAIL) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit corporation based in Mullens, West Virginia. Since 2001, when flooding devastated southern West Virginia, RAIL has worked to improve the quality of life for residents of the area. Its mission is \"to build human & civic capacity through incubation of nonprofit and grassroots organizations, and through the provision of programs in health, home repair, and education at the Mullens Opportunity Center.\" ()\n\nRAIL is located in the Mullens Opportunity Center (MOC), which it also administers. The MOC is located at 300 Front Street, in the former Mullens Elementary School. RAIL programs offered at the MOC include GED and literacy classes, high-speed public internet access, meeting space, a fitness center, and business incubator opportunities. The Upper Guyandotte Watershed Association(UGWA) is a separate non-profit launched by RAIL that also operates out of the MOC.\n\nMany of the programs at RAIL have been developed by AmeriCorps VISTAs, many of whom are from other regions of the United States. Other RAIL activities focus on community economic development, housing, cultural heritage, environment, and property acquisition.\n\nIn 2007, Wyoming County was designated a 'Pilot Community' by Groundwork USA, which is a nationwide organization that is \"a network of independent, not-for-profit, environmental businesses\" that gets \"local people, business, government and other organizations involved in practical projects.\" Groundwork strives to help communities improve their local environment by reclaiming brownfields, abandoned lands, and other under-utilized properties and returning them to productive use such as recreation, green space, and commercial development. ()\n\nRAIL was appointed administrator for a grant to study the formation of Groundwork Wyoming County (GWWC), and will act as consultant in a feasibility study. If launched, GWWC will be the first rural Groundwork Trust in the U.S., and its course will set important precedents, both within Groundwork USA and in rural Appalachia.\n\nRAIL also helped launch the Wyoming County Business Retention, Expansion, and Development (BRE&D) Program that works to connect local businesses and entrepreneurs with the resources they need to be successful. These resources include business planning, employee training, financial assistance, and networking opportunities.\n\n"}
{"id": "44173019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44173019", "title": "Russian embargo of Ukrainian goods", "text": "Russian embargo of Ukrainian goods\n\nRussian embargo of Ukrainian goods is trade and economic confrontation that resulted from putting all Ukrainian importers to the \"list of risk\" by the Federal Customs Service of Russia on 14 August 2013 that resulted the embargo of imports from Ukraine to Russia.\n\nIn the end of July 2013 Russian customs officers began unreasonable total inspection of all vehicles that transported Ukrainian goods. That forced Ukrainian cargoes idle on the border.\n\nOn 29 July 2013 Russian sanitary service has introduced a ban on the supply of products of Roshen company to Russia because of pretended violations found after examination. However, some countries which import the same sweets of Roshen, after their examinations, said they did not find any violations and they have no complaints about the company's products. According to the Basil Yurchishin, who is a Director of Economic Programs of Razumkov Centre, the ban on supply of Roshen production to Russia is a part of Russian policy against Ukraine. This confrontation got a name \"Chocolate War\".\n\nIn the first half of 2013, the Russian part of Ukrainian exports amounted to 23.7%.\n\nFrom the end of July 2013 to the beginning of a full embargo about 40 Ukrainian companies were put to the \"list of risk\" of Russian customs.\n\nOn 14 August 2013 the Federal Customs Service of Russia put all Ukrainian importers to the \"list of risk\". These actions resulted in embargo of imports from Ukraine to Russia. Lines of hundreds of trucks and railcars with Ukrainian goods began to form at the border checkpoints from Ukraine to Russia. For example, on 15 August on one of the control points (Bryansk-Lgovskiy Station) about 1 000 cars with Ukrainian cargoes were suspended. A number of Ukrainian companies, including suppliers of fruits and vegetables, poultry, confectionery, wines and steel products, reported having problems with customs clearance of their goods at the border with Russia. The \"Obolon\" company suspended all export to Russia.\n\nOn 18 August 2013 Adviser to the President Sergey Glazyev said that if Ukraine signs Association Agreement with the European Union customs policy for Ukrainian companies would be made more strict.\n\nOn 19 August 2013 Ministry of income and charges of Ukraine and Federal Customs Service of Russia during the negotiations agreed that additional customs control for Ukrainian goods will not be applied any more, products of Ukrainian companies will cross the Russian customs in normal mode.\n\nOn 20 August 2013 Ministry of income and charges Ukraine and the Federal Customs Service of Russia announced the end of a trade war.\n\nOn 21 August 2013 Prime Minister of Ukraine Mykola Azarov said that the Federal Customs Service of Russia brought their apologizes to companies, that faced the problems with supply of goods from Ukraine to Russia.\n\nMeanwhile, Russian customs continued to work with \"additional control procedures\".\n\nOn 20 September 2013 it was reported that the Russian customs let Ukrainian goods pass normally, without additional procedures. It was reported by \"Ukrinform\" referring to the government commissioner for cooperation with the Russian Federation, members of CIS, EurAsEC and other regional associations Valery Muntiyan.\n\nOn 17 October 2013 the Minister of Agrarian Policy and Food of Ukraine Mykola Prysyazhnyuk reported that customs control of Ukrainian confectionery increases again on the border with Russia.\n\nOn 31 October 2013 it was reported that the relevant authorities of the Russian Federation launched new measures for the \"enforcement of customs regulations for goods imported into the territory of the Customs Union.\" Because of this, many trucks with Ukrainian goods could not enter the territory of Russia.\n\nOn 12 November 2013 Russia introduced new regulations for transporting of goods through the Russia–Ukraine border that forced queues of trucks to form again.\n\nOn the night of 28 to 29 January 2014 Russia tightened customs control procedures. This was stated by the Association of International Road Carriers and Federation of Employers of Ukraine. Almost all cargoes going from Ukraine to Russia, now have to be carefully checked. The carrier must unload all products at the border at his own expense. Then they must be weighted, checked for certificates of conformity. The whole procedure of the registration can last up to 15 days.\n\nIn the beginning of April 2014, Russia banned imports of Ukrainian sweets, chocolate and cheese, and blocked the transit of Ukrainian sugar to the Central Asia. In response, Ukraine rejected Russian chocolates, cheese and fish.\n\nEarly December 2014 500 trucks with Russian coal were barred from entering Ukraine for several days although Ukrainian officials stated they \"fulfilled our payment liabilities in full\".\n\nOn 14 August 2013, short after the beginning of the embargo, civic movement \"Vidsich\" called in Social Networks for a boycott of Russian goods to respond the embargo of Ukrainian goods. This message had massively spread in social networks. On 22 August near the Presidential Administration of Ukraine activists held an action during which announced the launch of campaign of boycott of Russian goods. Activists launched a massive campaign on the Internet to attract volunteers and activists to work. From 24 August they massively distributed leaflets calling for a boycott in dozens of cities in Ukraine. Since November activists also begun to distribute leaflets calling for not buying goods in Russian stores and not being served in Russian banks. Activists distributing leaflets often faced resistance and attacks from unknown persons, private security or police officers. Since the beginning of Euromaidan in November 2013 campaign lost its scope. However, activists announced the restoration of campaign in March 2014 after the beginning of \"Crimean crisis\".\n\nOn 28 August 2013 the European Parliament Committee on Foreign Affairs held an emergency meeting on the situation in Egypt and Ukraine. The initiator of the extraordinary session was chairman of the committee Elmar Brok. Committee supported Ukraine in trade conflict with Russia. It was decided to raise that issue on the G20 summit in Saint Petersburg and pass a resolution about the support of Ukraine.\n\nGovernment of Germany, commenting the trade embargo, called on Russia to respect the right of Ukraine for the close relationship with European Union.\n\nOn 12 September 2013 The European Parliament have adopted the resolution on Russia's pressure on the countries of Eastern Partnership and called on the European Union leadership to protect Ukraine, Moldova and Armenia. The European Parliament called on the European Commission and the European External Action Service to consider Russia's actions being beyond the economy and being in a political dimension.\n\nOn 25 September 2013 the European Parliament supported the introduction of restrictions against the import of Russian goods in response to the same actions against countries of Eastern Partnership. If Russia introduces visa restrictions for citizens of these countries it will get \"mirrored\" measures for their citizens. In addition, the European Parliament Committee on Foreign Affairs asked to ensure compliance with the European laws by Russian companies.\n\nOn 23 November 2013, after the announcement by Cabinet of Ukraine about suspension of the process of signing of association agreement with the EU and after the beginning of Euromaidan, Chancellor of Germany Angela Merkel said she wants to talk to the president Vladimir Putin about stopping the pressure on Ukraine.\n\nAccording to the investigation of \"Zerkalo Nedeli\" newspaper, the reason for the embargo of Ukrainian production is pressure on the Ukrainian government to disrupt the signing of association agreement with the EU. The newspaper describes the events as opening of the first front of \"economic war\" against Ukraine. This is indicated in the investigation that Russia wants to maintain its influence over Ukraine.\n\n\n\n\nAccording to the Federation of Employers of Ukraine in the beginning of the embargo the loss for Ukraine from the Russia's actions can reach $2–2,5 billion in the second half of 2013.\n\nAccording to Ukrainian experts as for 22 August 2013 the 10-days embargo on the Russian border can hit some manufacturers, but the scale of losses in whole Ukraine is only 500 million hryvnias. Experts also believe that the unpredictable behaviour of Russia will force Ukrainian businessmen to seek new markets for their products, as well as make supporters of joining the \"Customs Union\" change their mind.\n\nOn 24 August 2013 on Radio \"Liberty\" MP of European Parliament Pawel Kowal published an article in which he suggested that the situation of tension in relations between Ukraine and Russia is just the beginning of the pressure that will continue and increase.\n\nSociologist, Director of \"Democratic initiatives\" Irina Bekeshkina said that Ukraine at the end of August 2013 is winning information war with Russia. However, according to experts, Russia will enhance the information and economic impact on Ukraine. Senior Advisor to the Russian Embassy in Ukraine Igor Sevastiyanov indirectly confirmed this statement, saying this embargo is \"training\".\n\nAlso, according to Radio \"Liberty\" with reference to the heads of the companies in the end of August 2013 it was reported that some Ukrainian companies through the trade confrontation between Ukraine and Russia are shifting to other markets. Some companies do not feel any problems with exports.\n\nRepresentatives of EU said they are ready to introduce additional steps to support Ukraine - from simplification of visa for Ukraine to financial help. Also, EU thinks about complication of access to European market for Russian goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "316603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316603", "title": "S. R. Ranganathan", "text": "S. R. Ranganathan\n\nSiyali Ramamrita Ranganathan (S.R.R.) ( 09 August 1892 – 27 September 1972) was a mathematician and librarian from India. His birth date is also written 12 August 1892 but he himself wrote his birth date 09 August 1892 in his book \"five laws of library science\". His most notable contributions to the field were his five laws of library science and the development of the first major faceted classification system, the colon classification. He is considered to be the father of library science, documentation, and information science in India and is widely known throughout the rest of the world for his fundamental thinking in the field. His birthday is observed every year as the National Librarian's Day in India.\n\nHe was a university librarian and professor of library science at Banaras Hindu University (1945–47) and professor of library science at the University of Delhi (1947–55).\nThe last appointment made him director of the first Indian school of librarianship to offer higher degrees. He was president of the Indian Library Association from 1944 to 1953. In 1957 he was elected an honorary member of the International Federation for Information and Documentation (FID) and was made a vice-president for life of the Library Association of Great Britain.\n\nRanganathan, born on 09 August 1892 to Ramamrita, in Siyali (at present, Sirkazhi) in British-ruled India at Tanjavoor (at present, Ubayavethanthapuram ,Thiruvarur District), Tamil Nadu.\n\nRanganathan began his professional life as a mathematician; he earned B.A. and M.A. degrees in mathematics from Madras Christian College in his home province, and then went on to earn a teaching license. His lifelong goal was to teach mathematics, and he was successively a member of the mathematics faculties at universities in Mangalore, Coimbatore and Madras). As a mathematics professor, he published papers mainly on the history of mathematics. His career as an educator was somewhat hindered by stammering (a difficulty he gradually overcame in his professional life). The Government of India awarded Padmashri to Dr. S.R. Ranganathan in 1957 for valuable contributions to Library Science.\n\nIn 1923, the University of Madras created the post of University Librarian to oversee their poorly organized collection. Among the 900 applicants for the position, none had any formal training in librarianship, and Ranganathan's' handful of papers satisfied the search committee's requirement that the candidate should have a research background. His sole knowledge of librarianship came from an \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" article he read days before the interview. Ranganathan was initially reluctant to pursue the position (he had forgotten about his application by the time he was called for an interview there). To his own surprise, he received the appointment and accepted the position in January 1924.\n\nAt first, Ranganathan found the solitude of the position was intolerable. In a matter of weeks, complaining of total boredom, he went back to the university administration to beg for his teaching position back. A deal was struck that Ranganathan would travel to London to study contemporary Western practices in librarianship, and that, if he returned and still rejected librarianship as a career, the mathematics lectureship would be his again.\n\nRanganathan travelled to University College London, which at that time housed the only graduate degree program in library science in Britain. At University College, he earned marks only slightly above average, but his mathematical mind latched onto the problem of classification, a subject typically taught by rote in library programs of the time. As an outsider, he focused on what he perceived to be flaws with the popular decimal classification, and began to explore new possibilities on his own.\n\nHe also devised the Acknowledgment of Duplication, which states that any system of classification of information necessarily implies at least two different classifications for any given datum. He anecdotally proved this with the Dewey Decimal Classification (DDC) by taking several books and showing how each might be classified with two totally different resultant DDC numbers. For example, a book on \"warfare in India\" could be classified under \"warfare\" or \"India\". Even a general book on warfare could be classified under \"warfare\", \"history\",\"social organisation\",\"Indian essays\", or many other headings, depending upon the viewpoint, needs, and prejudices of the classifier. To Ranganathan, a structured, step-by-step system acknowledging each facet of the topic of the work was immensely preferable to the anarchy and \"intellectual laziness\" (as he termed it) of the DDC. Given the poor technology for information retrieval available at that time, the implementation of this concept was a tremendous step forwards for the science of information retrieval. The system remains useful even into the modern times.\n\nHe began drafting the system that was ultimately to become colon classification while in England, and refined it as he returned home, even going so far as to reorder the ship's library on the voyage back to India. He initially got the idea for the system from seeing a set of Meccano in a toy store in London. Ranganathan returned with great interest for libraries and librarianship and a vision of its importance for the Indian nation. He returned to and held the position of University Librarian at the University of Madras for twenty years. During that time, he helped to found the Madras Library Association, and lobbied actively for the establishment of free public libraries throughout India and for the creation of a comprehensive national library.\n\nRanganathan was considered by many to be a workaholic. During his two decades in Madras, he consistently worked 13-hour days, seven days a week, without taking a vacation for the entire time. Although he married in November 1928, he returned to work the afternoon following the marriage ceremony. A few years later, he and his wife Sarada had a son. The couple remained married until Ranganathan's death.\n\nThe first few years of Ranganathan's tenure at Madras were years of deliberation and analysis as he addressed the problems of library administration and classification. It was during this period that he produced what have come to be known as his two greatest legacies: his five laws of library science (1931) and the colon classification system (1933).\n\nRegarding the political climate at the time, Ranganathan took his position at the University of Madras in 1924. Gandhi had been imprisoned in 1922 and was released around the time that Ranganathan was taking that job. Ranganathan sought to institute massive changes to the library system and to write about such things as open access and education for all which essentially had the potential to enable the masses and encourage civil discourse (and disobedience). Although there's no evidence that Ranganathan did any of this for political reasons, his changes to the library had the result of educating more people, making information available to all, and even aiding women and minorities in the information-seeking process.\n\nThe Northern Ireland crisis got an unexpected metaphorical reference in a book by S. R. Ranganathan, as \"making an Ulster of the ... law of parsimony\", complaining about the harmful effects of low budget on the good functioning of a library.\n\nAfter two decades of serving as librarian at Madras – a post he had intended to keep until his retirement, Ranganathan retired from his position after conflicts with a new university vice-chancellor became intolerable. At the age of 54, he submitted his resignation and, after a brief bout with depression, accepted a professorship in library science at Banaras Hindu University in Varanasi, his last formal academic position, in August 1945. There, he catalogued the university's collection; by the time he left four years later, he had classified over 100,000 items personally.\n\nRanganathan headed the Indian Library Association from 1944 to 1953, but was never a particularly adept administrator, and left amid controversy when the Delhi Public Library chose to use the Dewey Decimal Classification system instead of his own Colon Classification. He held an honorary professorship at Delhi University from 1949 to 1955 and helped build that institution's library science programs with S. Dasgupta, a former student of his. In 1951, Ranganathan released an album on Folkways Records entitled, \"Readings from the Ramayana: In Sanskrit Bhagavad Gita.\"\n\nRanganathan briefly moved to Zurich, Switzerland, from 1955 to 1957, when his son married a European woman; the unorthodox relationship did not sit well with Ranganathan, although his time in Zurich allowed him to expand his contacts within the European library community, where he gained a significant following. However, he soon returned to India and settled in the city of Bangalore, where he would spend the rest of his life. While in Zurich, though, he endowed a professorship at Madras University in honour of his wife of thirty years, largely as an ironic gesture in retaliation for the persecution he suffered for many years at the hands of that university's administration.\n\nRanganathan's final major achievement was the establishment of the Documentation Research and Training Centre as a department and research centre in the Indian Statistical Institute in Bangalore in 1962, where he served as honorary director for five years. In 1965, the Indian government honoured him for his contributions to the field with a rare title of \"National Research Professor.\"\n\nIn the final years of his life, Ranganathan finally succumbed to ill health and was largely confined to his bed. On 27 September 1972, he died of complications from bronchitis.\n\nUpon the 1992 centenary of his birth, several biographical volumes and collections of essays on Ranganathan's influence were published in his honour. Ranganathan's autobiography, published serially during his life, is titled \"A Librarian Looks Back\".\n\nRanganathan dedicated his book \"The Five Laws of Library Science\" to his maths tutor at Madras Christian College: Edward Burns Ross.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53192145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53192145", "title": "Separation of prescribing and dispensing", "text": "Separation of prescribing and dispensing\n\nSeparation of prescribing and dispensing, also called dispensing separation, is a practice in medicine and pharmacy in which the physician who provides a medical prescription is independent from the pharmacist who provides the prescription drug.\n\nIn the Western world there are centuries of tradition for separating pharmacists from physicians. In Asian countries it is traditional for physicians to also provide drugs.\n\nIn contemporary time researchers and health policy analysts have more deeply considered these traditions and their effects. Advocates for separation and advocates for combining make similar claims for each of their conflicting perspectives, saying that separating or combining reduces conflict of interest in the healthcare industry, unnecessary health care, and lowers costs, while the opposite causes those things. Research in various places reports mixed outcomes in different circumstances.\n\nIn jurisdictions (such as the United States), pharmacists are regulated separately from physicians. These jurisdictions also usually specify that \"only\" pharmacists may supply scheduled pharmaceuticals to the public, and that pharmacists cannot form business partnerships with physicians or give them \"kickback\" payments. However, the American Medical Association (AMA) Code of Ethics provides that physicians may dispense drugs within their office practices as long as there is no patient exploitation and patients have the right to a written prescription that can be filled elsewhere. 7 to 10 percent of American physicians practices reportedly dispense drugs on their own.\n\nIn some rural areas in the United Kingdom, there are dispensing physicians who are allowed to both prescribe and dispense prescription-only medicines to their patients from within their practices. The law requires that the GP practice be located in a designated rural area and that there is also a specified, minimum distance (currently 1.6 kilometres) between a patient's home and the nearest retail pharmacy. See Dispensing Doctors' Association.\n\nThis law also exists in Austria for general physicians if the nearest pharmacy is more than 4 kilometers away, or where none is registered in the city.\nIn other jurisdictions (particularly in Asian countries such as China, Malaysia, and Singapore), doctors are allowed to dispense drugs themselves and the practice of pharmacy is sometimes integrated with that of the physician, particularly in traditional Chinese medicine.\n\nIn Canada it is common for a medical clinic and a pharmacy to be located together and for the ownership in both enterprises to be common, but licensed separately.\n\nThe reason for the majority rule is the high risk of a conflict of interest and/or the avoidance of absolute powers. Otherwise, the physician has a financial self-interest in \"diagnosing\" as many conditions as possible, and in exaggerating their seriousness, because he or she can then sell more medications to the patient. Such self-interest directly conflicts with the patient's interest in obtaining cost-effective medication and avoiding the unnecessary use of medication that may have side-effects. This system reflects much similarity to the checks and balances system of the U.S. and many other governments.\n\nA campaign for separation has begun in many countries and has already been successful (as in Korea). As many of the remaining nations move towards separation, resistance and lobbying from dispensing doctors who have pecuniary interests may prove a major stumbling block (e.g. in Malaysia).\n\nIn many Asian countries there is not a traditional separation between physician and pharmacist. In Taiwan, a plan initiated in March 1997 experimented with separating doctors who prescribe from pharmacists who fulfill prescriptions on the theory that this would reduce unnecessary health care. The plan had mixed results. The South Korean government passed a law in 2000 which separated drug prescribing from dispensing. The passing of the law achieved some of its intentions and also caused problems in unexpected ways. Japan also is experimenting with separation of prescribing and dispensing. In Malaysia, , separation of prescribing and dispensing only occurs in government hospitals.\n\n"}
{"id": "979272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=979272", "title": "Sodium metabisulfite", "text": "Sodium metabisulfite\n\nSodium metabisulfite or sodium pyrosulfite (IUPAC spelling; Br. E. sodium metabisulphite or sodium pyrosulphite) is an inorganic compound of chemical formula NaSO. The substance is sometimes referred to as \"disodium\" metabisulfite. It is used as a disinfectant, antioxidant, and preservative agent.\n\nSodium metabisulfite can be prepared by evaporating a solution of sodium bisulfite saturated with sulfur dioxide:\n\nwhich leaves solid NaSO behind.\n\nThe anion metabisulfite is a hybrid of dithionite (SO) and dithionate (SO). The anion consists of an SO group linked to an SO group, with the negative charge more localized on the SO end. The S–S bond length is 2.22 Å, and the \"thionate\" and \"thionite\" S–O distances are 1.46 and 1.50 Å respectively.\n\nIt is used as a preservative and antioxidant in food and is also known as E223.\n\nIt may cause allergic reactions in those who are sensitive to sulfites, including respiratory reactions in asthmatics, anaphylaxis, and other allergic reactions in sensitive individuals.\n\nSodium metabisulfite and potassium metabisulfite are the primary ingredients in Campden tablets, used for wine and beer making.\n\nThe acceptable daily intake is up to 0.7 milligrams per kilogram of body weight. Sodium metabisulfite oxidizes in the liver to sulfate which is excreted in the urine.\n\nIt is commonly used in homebrewing and winemaking to sanitize equipment. It is used as a cleaning agent for potable water reverse osmosis membranes in desalination systems. It is also used to remove chloramine from drinking water after treatment.\n\n\nWhen mixed with water, sodium metabisulfite releases sulfur dioxide (SO), a pungent, unpleasant smelling gas that can also cause breathing difficulties in some people. For this reason, sodium metabisulfite has fallen from common use in recent times, with agents such as hydrogen peroxide becoming more popular for effective and odorless sterilization of equipment. Released sulfur dioxide however makes the water a strong reducing agent.\n\nSodium metabisulfite releases sulfur dioxide in contact with strong acids:\n\nOn heating to high temperature, it releases sulfur dioxide, leaving sodium sulfite behind:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26751870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26751870", "title": "Suitable age and discretion", "text": "Suitable age and discretion\n\nSuitable age and discretion is both a legal definition of maturity, and an alternate method of service of process by which a process server can leave a summons, subpoena, or complaint with a person living at the residence of the defendant.\n\nThe age that adolescents gain legal rights and privileges vary. Generally, those who reach the age of 18 are legally considered to have reached the age of majority, but persons below that age may gain adult rights through legal emancipation. The legal working age in Western countries is usually between 14 and 16, depending on the hours and type of employment. This may be different from the minimum school leaving age (at which a person is legally allowed to leave compulsory education) and the age of consent to sexual activity varies widely between jurisdictions, ranging from 13 to 18 years.\n\nThe minimum age for \"suitable age and discretion\" varies by jurisdiction.\n\nFourteen years old seems to be the absolute minimum. Under \"common law, a female of the age of 14 is at the age of legal discretion, and may choose a guardian.\" Thus, Minnesota declared 14 to be old enough to be presumed to be of suitable age and discretion. Under the laws of some states, including New York, a child of 14 can get married with permission of a court and a guardian, and marriages of those younger than that are void. A New York official court video transcript states:\nIn California, \"an intelligent and mature 16-year-old\" is of \"suitable age and discretion\".\n\nSuitable age and discretion is also an alternate method of service of process. Typically that means a child of the defendant, even if the child is only visiting his or her parent's house, can accept service of process.\n\nHowever, service on the receptionist at the former dwelling place of the defendant was not sufficient for personal jurisdiction.\n\nIn the United States, this form of process is recognized by Arizona, California, Louisiana, and Michigan. It is also recognized in Minnesota, New York, and North Carolina. The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, Rule 4(e)(2)(B), allows \"delivering a copy of the summons and of the complaint to the individual personally or by leaving copies thereof at the individual's dwelling house or usual place of abode with some person of suitable age and discretion then residing therein ...\"\n\nSuitable age and discretion service of process is recognized by Philippine law.\n\n"}
{"id": "24574448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24574448", "title": "TAMPEP", "text": "TAMPEP\n\nTAMPEP (European Network for HIV/STI Prevention and Health Promotion among Migrant Sex Workers) is an international organization that supports the health and human rights of migrant sex workers in Europe. Founded in 1993, with headquarters in Amsterdam, the organization initially operated in Italy, Austria, Germany, and the Netherlands. Today, it coordinates a network of 26 organizations in 25 countries of the European Union, and receives funding from the European Commission as well as from national governmental and non-governmental organizations.\n\nThe main concern of the project is HIV/AIDS prevention; it approaches the problem from a general health and human rights approach, working for empowerment and self-determination of female and transsexual migrant sex workers, and for improvements in their working conditions and social situation. The member organizations employ street work, peer educators and informational materials to contact migrant sex workers. The organization produces regular reports about the situation of prostitutes in Europe.\n\nTAMPEP's literature emphasizes the need to cleanly distinguish between the issues of trafficking, sex work and migration. TAMPEP opposes trafficking as a human rights abuse, but supports efforts to improve working conditions of sex workers and to facilitate migration.\n\nTAMPEP has also operated in Nigeria, where it helps to rehabilitate sex workers deported from Italy.\n"}
{"id": "14435802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14435802", "title": "The Council on Quality and Leadership", "text": "The Council on Quality and Leadership\n\nCQL | The Council on Quality and Leis an American -based organization dedicated to the definition, measurement, and improvement of personal and community quality of life for people with disabilities and people with mental illness and substance abuse disorder and older adults. It has partnerships with organisations in Canada and the Republic of Ireland.\n\nCQL was founded in 1969 by leading national advocacy organizations in response to unacceptable conditions and abuses in the treatment of people with disabilities. Today, CQL operates an international accreditation program, provides consultation and technical assistance for quality improvement, conducts research and disseminates knowledge, and promotes the definition of quality of life within the context of community life.\n\nCQL member organizations form the governing body by appointing representatives to serve on the Board of Directors. Members represent leading advocacy, provider, and professional organizations and include:\n\nCQL works with public and private organizations with a commitment to improving the quality of services and supports provided to people with disabilities and people with mental illness. CQL’s goals are to:\n\nCQL originated in the late 1960s in an effort to stop the abuses and inhumane treatment in large public institutions serving people with intellectual disabilities. Quality of care or quality of service was defined in terms of organizational processes, with particular emphases on assuring safety, health, and security. During the 1970s and 1980s, CQL developed national consensus standards for organizations providing services to people with intellectual disabilities. The standards reflected the principles and values of professionals, families, provider organizations, and government agencies. CQL standards were published in 1971, 1973, 1978, 1981, 1985, 1987 and 1990.\n\nIn the early stages of this period, quality in human services focused primarily on the organizations that housed people with disabilities. Over time, the focus shifted to the individuals who were cared for by these organizations. Definitions of quality addressed internal processes necessary to ensure that the service recipient received adequate and appropriate care or treatment. However, the focus remained on program evaluation as the measure of quality.\n\nCQL shifted the definition of quality from compliance with program or process standards to responsiveness to people. Work on the Personal Outcome Measures began in 1991, as CQL held focus group meetings with people with disabilities and their families. People defined the outcomes that were most important to them. CQL introduced the \"Outcome Based Performance Measures\" in 1993 and the modified \"Personal Outcome Measures\" in 1997.\n\nThese measures represented a significant departure from traditional quality systems. CQL shifted the focus to measuring individual quality of life. Not only were the measures different, the process of gathering information also changed. Personal interviews with people with intellectual disabilities, people with mental illness, or people with other conditions are the foundation of the data gathering process. The measures are applied and evaluated based on the unique characteristics, needs, and desires of each individual.\n\nAt the start of the new century, and after ten years of data gathering and analysis, CQL recognized that personal outcomes are most likely to be realized when people are part of communities of concerned and supporting people. CQL once again shifted its definitions of quality by focusing on the social or community context for the attainment of personal quality of life. The individual focus of person-directed outcomes, self-determination and individual choice requires a social context. The challenge for organizations and support groups is not only to engage in person-directed processes; rather, it is to use the person-directed orientation to build social capital and community connections.\n\nCQL’s \"Quality Measures 2005\" is a comprehensive resource on multiple dimensions of quality assessment and enhancement. It builds on the foundations of past standards and moves human service providers forward into the current environment.\n\nMore than fifteen years of research on the CQL Personal Outcome Measure® national database revealed the importance of person-centered services and social networks in facilitating personal quality of life outcomes for people. CQL introduced the dialogue on social capital and disability in 2000, and redefined quality within the context of community inclusion. CQL argued that people find meaningful life opportunities and alternatives outside of programs and organizational services. The role of organizations is to connect people with resources and social networks in their communities. Unfortunately, our data and experience indicate that many organizations have difficulty making these connections.\n\nThis led CQL to embark on the development of new definitions, metrics and improvement methods focused on person-centered supports through the What Really Matters initiative. Over a 12-month period, CQL sought out the best thinkers and innovators across a wide range of human services to guide our work.\n\nCQL evolved from the work of the American Association on Mental Deficiency-AAMD (now American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities-AAIDD). In 1952, AAMD published the report of a special committee on standards for institutions serving people with intellectual disability. With funding from the National Institute of Mental Health-NIMH, AAMD undertook a major standards development project, culminating in the publication of the Standards for State Institutions for the Mentally Retarded in 1964. In 1966, AAMD and the National Association for Retarded Citizens (now The Arc), the Council for Exceptional Children (CEC) and United Cerebral Palsy (UCP) formed the National Planning Committee on Accreditation of Residential Centers for the Retarded. In 1969 the Joint Commissionon Accreditation of Hospitals invited the National Planning Committee to establish an accreditation council within its structure.\n\nThe Accreditation Council for Facilities for the Mentally Retarded (ACFMR) developed accreditation standards and conducted accreditation reviews of facilities serving people with intellectual disability over the next ten years. In 1979 the Joint Commission reorganized its administrative structure and terminated its agreements with various accreditation councils, replacing them with professional and technical advisory committees. The ACFMR voted to reorganize as an independent, not-for-profit organization – to be known as The Accreditation Council for Services for Mentally Retarded and Other Developmentally Disabled Persons-ACMRDD. Founding members of ACMRDD were: AAMD (now AAIDD), American Psychological Association, The Arc, Epilepsy Foundation of America, National Association of Private Residential Facilities (now ANCOR), National Association of Social Workers, National Society for Children and Adults with Autism (now Autism Society of America), and UCP. In 1981 the American Occupational Therapy Association and the Council for Exceptional Children also became sponsoring organizations. ACMRDD’s work in updating the standards and review methodology was initially supported by the Administration on Developmental Disabilities in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, the name of the organization evolved from ACMRDD to The Accreditation Council on Services for People with Disabilities-ACD, and in 1997 it became The Council on Quality and Leadership-CQL.\n\nDuring the 1980s, CQL published new editions of standards and conducted a national accreditation program for organizations providing services to people with disabilities. CQL’s design and dissemination of habilitation standards emphasized the interdisciplinary team process, individualized program planning, behavior intervention, and the promotion of disability rights. The Standards for Services influenced federal certification requirements for the Intermediate Care Facilities for intellectual disability (ICF/MR) program. The Health Care Financing Administration-HCFA, now the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services-CMS, acknowledged that its regulations were based on the 1983 draft CQL standards.\n\nCQL standards were also recognized by the U.S. courts in several landmark cases, including:\nThe courts affirmed that CQL standards represented a reliable benchmark for ensuring that individuals with disabilities were receiving appropriate services and that their rights, safety, and security were assured.\n\nDuring this period, CQL operated as a standards organization and accreditation organization, with a particular focus on quality in services for people with intellectual disability and other developmental disabilities.\n\nIn the 1990s, CQL shifted to a broader focus, moving beyond habilitation planning and measures of organizational process. Work began on the \"Outcome Based Performance Measures\", renamed \"Personal Outcome Measures\" in 2000. These new measures were a departure from previous editions of standards and redefined quality in services in terms of an organization’s capability to facilitate outcomes for people.\n\nCQL used the term “personal outcomes” in contrast to “process outcomes”. Process outcomes are concerned with an organization’s compliance with norms or regulations. They measure organizational accomplishments, such as number of placements, hours of service delivery, staffing ratios, or number of people served in a program. Personal outcomes focus on the issues that matter most to the person receiving the services provided by the organization. They answer the question of “how well did the organization deliver its services to meet the individual needs and desires of each person?” The CQL accreditation process with the Personal Outcome Measures is built around interviews with people receiving services and learning how each person defines the outcomes for him or herself. From this understanding of what each individual wants, the organization is evaluated on how well it delivered person centered services and support. The Personal Outcome Measures apply to people with mental illness, children, youth and families, and other at risk or vulnerable people in the human service system.\n\nIn 2005, CQL published \"Quality Measures 2005> emphasizing Community Life as the context for quality.\n\nIn the Fall of 2010, CQL published the Guide to Person-centered Excellence as the culmination of the What Really Matters Initiative. CQL developed the Guide to Person-centered Excellence to encourage organizations to provide the supports and services for people that really matter. The Guide utilizes CQL's 8 Key Factors and 34 Success Indicators that promote personal quality of life. CQL developed three different applications, one for each setting: services and supports for older adults, people with mental illness, and people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. The 34 Success Indicators are consistent across all three settings, while the narratives are tailored to apply to the specific audience and service setting.\n\nCQL continues to place the Personal Outcome Measures® at the foundation of work with organizations. One-to-one conversations with people receiving supports are the most powerful source of knowledge and understanding when it comes to defining excellence and person-centeredness.\n\nCQL provides the following services:\n\nMental Retardation, 35:4 (August), 295-305.\n\n"}
{"id": "3947481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3947481", "title": "The Great Debaters", "text": "The Great Debaters\n\nThe Great Debaters is a 2007 American biographical drama film directed by and starring Denzel Washington. It is based on an article written about the Wiley College debate team by Tony Scherman for the spring 1997 issue of \"American Legacy\".\n\nThe film co-stars Forest Whitaker, Kimberly Elise, Nate Parker, Gina Ravera, Jermaine Williams and Jurnee Smollett. The screenplay is by Robert Eisele, with a story by Robert Eisele & Jeffrey Porro. The film was released in theaters on December 25, 2007.\n\nBased on a true story, the plot revolves around the efforts of debate coach Melvin B. Tolson (Denzel Washington) at Wiley College, a Historically Black College, to place his team on equal footing with whites in the American South during the 1930s, when Jim Crow laws were common and lynch mobs were a fear for blacks. The Wiley team eventually succeeds to the point where they are able to debate Harvard University. This was their 47th annual debate team.\n\nThe movie explores the social constructs in Texas during the Great Depression including not only the day-to-day insults and slights African Americans endured, but also a lynching. Also depicted is James L. Farmer, Jr. (Denzel Whitaker), who, at 14 years old, was on Wiley's debate team after completing high school (and who later went on to co-found C.O.R.E., the Congress of Racial Equality). According to the \"Houston Chronicle\", another character depicted on the team, Samantha Booke, is based on the real individual Henrietta Bell Wells, the only female member of the 1930 debate team from Wiley College who participated in the first collegiate interracial debate in the United States. Wells also happened to be an African American poet whose papers are housed at the Library of Congress.\n\nThe key line of dialogue, used several times, is a famous paraphrase of Augustine of Hippo: \"An unjust law is no law at all.\"\nAnother major line, repeated in slightly different versions according to context, concerns doing what you \"have to do\" in order that we \"can do\" what we \"want to do.\" In all instances, these vital lines are spoken by the James L. Farmer Sr. and James L. Farmer, Jr. characters.\n\n\nThe film was the first since 1979 to be allowed to film on Harvard's campus.\n\n\"The Great Debaters\" was released in theaters on December 25, 2007.\n\nThe release of the film coincided with a nationally stepped-up effort by urban debate leagues to get hundreds of inner-city and financially challenged schools to establish debate programs. Cities of focus included Denver, Philadelphia, and San Francisco.\n\nOn December 19, 2007, Denzel Washington announced a $1 million donation to Wiley College so they could re-establish their debate team. June 2007, after completing filming at Central High School, Grand Cane, Louisiana, Washington donated $10,000 to Central High School.\n\n\"The Great Debaters\" was released on DVD on May 13, 2008 on 1-disc and 2-disc editions. In the 2-disc edition, the first disc includes no extra material, but the second disc includes an audio commentary, a making of documentary, deleted scenes, featurettes, and a still gallery.\n\n\"The Great Debaters\" debuted at No. 11 in its first weekend with a total of $6,005,180 from 1,171 venues. The film grossed $30,236,407 in the US.\n\nAs of November 20, 2012 the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 79% of critics gave the film positive reviews based on 131 reviews. The site's consensus reads: \"A wonderful cast and top-notch script elevate \"The Great Debaters\" beyond a familiar formula for a touching, uplifting drama.\" Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 65 out of 100 based on reviews from 32 critics.\n\nCarrie Rickey of \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\" named it the 5th best film of 2007 and Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" named it the 9th best film of 2007.\n\nSome critics have criticized the film for \"playing it safe.\" John Monaghan of the \"Detroit Free Press\" stated, \"Serious moviegoers, especially those attracted by the movie's aggressive Oscar campaign, will likely find the package gorgeously wrapped, but intellectually empty.\"\n\n\nThe songs for the soundtrack to the film were hand-picked by Denzel Washington from over 1000 candidates. It contains remakes of traditional blues and Gospel songs from the 1920s and 1930s by artists including Sharon Jones, Alvin Youngblood Hart, David Berger, and the Carolina Chocolate Drops. It features favorites, such as \"Step It Up and Go,\" \"Nobody's Fault But Mine,\" and the Duke Ellington classic, \"Delta Serenade.\" Varèse Sarabande released a separate album of the film's score, composed by James Newton Howard and Peter Golub.\n\nThe complete soundtrack album includes the following songs:\n\n\nThe film depicts the Wiley Debate team beating Harvard College in the 1930s. They did not debate Harvard, however. The debate depicted in the film instead mirrored the match up between Wiley and the University of Southern California, who at the time were the reigning debating champions. Wiley College did indeed win this matchup. According to Robert Eisele: \"In that era, there was much at stake when a black college debated any white school, particularly one with the stature of Harvard. We used Harvard to demonstrate the heights they achieved.\"\n\nThe film omits another reality: even though they beat the reigning champions, the Great Debaters were not allowed to call themselves victors because they were not truly considered to belong to the debate society; blacks were not admitted until after World War II.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13117659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13117659", "title": "Tony Karon", "text": "Tony Karon\n\nTony Karon is a South African-born journalist and former anti-Apartheid activist. He is currently Al Jazeera America's senior online executive producer. He was formerly the Senior Editor at Time.com.\n\nHe is originally from Cape Town, South Africa, and has been living in New York City since 1993.\n\nHe studied at the University of Cape Town, and in the 1980s, he was a prominent anti-apartheid activist in student movement NUSAS.\n\nHe joined TIME in 1997, and has been a Senior Editor since 2000, providing commentary on world affairs. In the past he worked as an activist for the banned African National Congress in South Africa.\n\nIn April 2013, he was hired as a senior online executive producer of the upcoming Al Jazeera America's digital team.\n\n"}
{"id": "10661753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10661753", "title": "Vermont Agency of Agriculture Food and Markets", "text": "Vermont Agency of Agriculture Food and Markets\n\nThe Vermont Agency of Agriculture Food and Markets (VAAFM) or sometimes colloquially \"the agriculture department,\" is a Vermont executive agency (or cabinet agency). Its purpose is to develop and execute policy on farming, agriculture, food, and promoting and protecting the Vermont brand as related to food in the worldwide market. It aims to meet the needs of dairy farmers, beekeepers, orchardists, maple sugarmakers, and related industries. The VAAFM promotes agricultural trade and production, work to assure food safety, protect natural resources, and preserve the culture of rural communities.\n\nCharles Ross of Hinesburg is the agency's current secretary.\n\nThe VAAFM is organized into four divisions:\n\nOne role of the agency is the regulation and maintenance of quality. This goes hand in hand with the management of the Vermont brand as a reliable source of quality. While meeting all United States Department of Agriculture standards, Vermont exceeds those standards in the areas of dairy and maple products. Maple syrup produced in Vermont has a higher percentage of maple solids reflected in a higher weight per gallon than maple syrup from other U.S. states or Canada. The butterfat content of Vermont butter exceeds USDA minimums and equals those of the French Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, the highest standards set by a national government.\n\nVermont-grown and -produced agricultural products meeting the agency's standards may display the Vermont Seal of Quality in its packaging and promotion.\n\nIn 2015, Act 64 required the agency to revise all Required Agricultural Practices to include small farms, nutrient storage (usually manure), soil health, buffer zones (from runoff areas), livestock exclusion, and nutrient management.\n\n"}
{"id": "33460188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33460188", "title": "World Without Nazism", "text": "World Without Nazism\n\nWorld Without Nazism (WWN) (), or Mir Bez Natsizma (MBH), is a Russian political organization with ties to Vladimir Putin's government, which claims to campaign against \"neo-fascism.\" The group has also been described, by security agencies from the Baltic republics, as a Russian propaganda organization, and as a Kremlin-sponsored GONGO, which aims to advance Russian foreign policies against formerly Soviet-occupied countries and to promote \"a Soviet-era approach to World War II\". The organization was founded and is led by Boris Spiegel, a Russian oligarch with close ties to Putin. It was founded in Kiev, Ukraine, on 22 June 2010, and is registered in Strasbourg, France.\n\nThe organisation accuses the countries that were formerly part of the Communist Bloc of \"rapid nazification.\" It criticizes the \"Western European democracies\" for their alleged role in starting World War II and proposes a common history textbook for all of Europe based on \"serious scientific study, as well as the decisions of international judicial and political authorities on which basis the postwar world order had been built\" (see historiography in the Soviet Union).\n\nWorld Without Nazism has declared its official aims to be:\n\nAccording to a member of Russian Public Chamber and founder of a sub-section of World Without Nazism in Russia Alexander Brod, the organization also attempts to protect Russian-speaking citizens in the Baltic States.\n\nWWN has been accused of being a GONGO, \"a pseudo-independent outfit that a country (usually authoritarian or non-democratic in nature) establishes to mimic an NGO so as to deceive the media, public and other governments.\" The organisation is under observation by the police in Estonia because security officials allege its membership includes suspected extremists. The organization is described in the Annual Review of the Estonian Security Police as a propaganda organization aimed at promoting \"a Soviet-era approach to World War II.\" According to Estonian security officials, certain members of the organization are radical nationalists who promote Russian chauvinism. The Annual Review states that World Without Nazism cooperates closely with Russian state controlled media channels and Russian Federation embassies in target countries. It also states that WWN's goal is to create a situation according to which questioning Moscow's version of history regarding the Soviet occupation of the Baltic states and The Holodomor is equated with denial of the Holocaust.. Five WWN members who are also members of the New York State Assembly wrote an open letter to the Prime Minister of Estonia A. Ansip objecting against calling the WWN extremist.\n\nAccording to V. Likhachev, a Ukrainian Congress of Ethnic Communities official, WWN accuses selected governments unsympathetic to Russia of anti-semitism, radical nationalism, support of neo-fascists, Holocaust denial, hindering the prosecution of alleged Nazi war criminals and revisionist politics toward the consequences of the Great Patriotic War. Likhachev also alleges that the allegations are not directed against Kremlin-friendly authoritarian regimes and that WWN is profoundly focused on instances of anti-semitism by the government of Georgia, which is pro-Israel. According to James Kirchick of \"The Daily Beast\", the WWN employed the \"fascist\" label to defame governments in eastern Europe which are opposed to Russian influence..\n\nThe 2010 conference, where WWN was founded, received letters of support from Hillary Clinton and from the Ukrainian prime minister, and was attended by Ukraine's minister of education and the Israeli minister without portfolio.\n\nRussian foreign minister Lavrov referred to WWN in a meeting held with Russian NGO representatives in March, 2011, pointing it out as a leading example of NGOs working to \"counter attempts to rewrite and distort history, primarily the outcome of World War II.\" Lavrov also praised WWN for its actions in support of Lithuanian Socialist People's Front leader Algirdas Paleckis, who was accused of justifying the armed aggression by the Soviet Union against a popular gathering in Lithuania in 1991.\n\nThe WWN 2012 conference in Moscow was organised under the auspices of the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe and in cooperation with the Federation Council of Russia.\n\nWWN is an umbrella organization for 131 different organizations. According to Estonian Security Police, many of the member organizations are involved in carrying out the Russian policy of compatriots or implementing Russian informational influence in target countries. Johan Bäckman is a board member and a leader of the Finnish Anti-Fascist Committee. The South Ossetian Republic is considered an independent state by WWN and the South Ossetian Anti-Fascist Committee (Юго-Осетинский антифашистский комитет) is also a full member of MBN. Some member organizations are considered extremist by Estonian security forces. For example, WWN's management board has two Estonian resident representatives, Maksim Reva and Andrei Zarenkov, who the Estonian Security Police describes as radical nationalists who promote Russian chauvinism.\n\nOther founding members listed on WWN website include Moscow Bureau for Human Rights and the Anti-Defamation League, a US organization.\n\nAfter the creation of WWN in 2010, some member organizations in different countries have renamed themselves to show they are subsidiaries of WWN: e.g. America Without Nazism, Natsivaba Eesti (Estonia without Nazism) and Rossija Bez Natsisma (RBN).\n\nThe founder and chairman of World Without Nazism is Boris Spiegel, a member of the Russian Federation Council, who is described by an opinion piece in Haaretz as a Kremlin-connected oligarch The MBN presidium consists of 15 persons from different countries. In addition to the presidium, MBN has another wider ruling body, MBN Sovet (Council), which consists of 39 members (including 15 members of the Presidium). Additional five members, among them MEP Tatyana Zhdanoka, are included in the MBN Sovet according to \"a separate list\".\n\nIn 2014 statement regarding the war in Ukraine the organization had said that:\n\nThe absence of the international community's reaction can repeat the Kristallnacht [Night of Broken Glass] for non-Ukrainians and other ethnic minorities,\n\nThe following individual are members of the presidium:\n\nWWN organised several conferences and a picket in Estonia in 2011. Five WWN members who are also members of the New York State Assembly wrote an open letter to The Prime Minister of Estonia A. Ansip after he called the WWN extremist.\n\nMonitoring reports on the following countries are published on the WWN website: Bulgaria, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Italy, Ukraine, Finland, Estonia, and Russia.\n\nWWN expressed concerns on the rise of xenophobic, racist and anti-semitic tendencies in Russian society after Manezhnaya square riots of December 11, 2010.\n\nWWN states \"the tendency to equate Soviet and the Nazi regime against a background of rapid nazification and radicalization of social consciousness in the former communist bloc\" is not a coincidence. It advocates \"a wide open scientific discussion on the history of the twentieth century, which could shed some light on the crimes of totalitarian regimes and the role of the Western democracies in the outbreak of World War II.\" It also proposes a common history textbook for all of Europe based on \"serious scientific study, as well as the decisions of international judicial and political authorities on which basis the postwar world order had been built\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10406929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10406929", "title": "Years of Lead (Italy)", "text": "Years of Lead (Italy)\n\nThe Years of Lead () is a term used for a period of social and political turmoil in Italy that lasted from the late 1960s until the early 1980s, marked by a wave of both left-wing and right-wing incidents of political terrorism.\n\nThe Years of Lead are often considered to have begun with the Hot Autumn strikes starting in 1969; the death of the policeman Antonio Annarumma who was killed in a leftist demonstration in November 1969; the Piazza Fontana bombing in December of that year, which killed 17 and was likely perpetrated by right-wing terrorists in Milan; and the subsequent death of Giuseppe Pinelli while in police custody.\n\nThe term's origin possibly came as a reference to the number of shootings during the period, or a popular 1981 German film \"Marianne and Juliane\", released in Italy as \"Anni di piombo\", which centered on the lives of two members of the West German militant far-left group Red Army Faction which had gained notoriety during the same period.\n\nThere was widespread social conflict and unprecedented acts of terrorism carried out by both right- and left-wing paramilitary groups. An attempt to endorse the neo-fascist Italian Social Movement (MSI) by the Tambroni Cabinet led to rioting and was short-lived. Widespread labor unrest and the collaboration of countercultural student activist groups with working class factory workers and pro-labor radical leftist organizations such as Potere Operaio and Lotta Continua culminated in the so-called \"Hot Autumn\" of 1969, a massive series of strikes in factories and industrial centers in Northern Italy. Student strikes and labor strikes, often led by workers, leftists, left-sympathizing laborers, or Marxist activists, became increasingly common, often deteriorating into clashes between the police and demonstrators composed largely of workers, students, activists, and often left-wing militants. The Christian Democrats (DC) were instrumental in the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) gaining power in the 1960s and they created a coalition. The assassination of the Christian Democrat leader Aldo Moro in 1978 ended the strategy of \"historic compromise\" between the DC and the Italian Communist Party (PCI). The assassination was carried out by the Red Brigades, then led by Mario Moretti. Between 1968 and 1988, 428 murders were attributed to political violence in the form of bombings, assassinations, and street warfare between rival militant factions.\n\nPublic protests shook Italy during 1969, with the autonomist student movement being particularly active, leading to the occupation of the Fiat automobile factory in Milan.\n\nOn 19 November 1969, Antonio Annarumma, a Milanese policeman, was killed during a riot by far-left demonstrators. He was the first civil servant to die in the wave of violence.\n\nThe Monument to Victor Emmanuel II, the \"Banca Nazionale del Lavoro\" in Rome and the \"Banca Commerciale Italiana\" and the \"Banca Nazionale dell'Agricoltura\" in Milan were bombed in December.\n\nLocal police arrested 80 or so suspects from left-wing groups, including Giuseppe Pinelli, an anarchist initially blamed for the bombing, and Pietro Valpreda. Their guilt was denied by left-wing members, especially by members of the student movement, then prominent in Milan's universities, as they believed that the bombing was carried out by fascists. Following the death of Giuseppe Pinelli, who mysteriously died on 15 December while in police custody, the radical left-wing newspaper \"Lotta Continua\" started a campaign accusing police officer Luigi Calabresi of Pinelli's murder. In 1975, Calabresi and other police officials were acquitted by judge Gerardo D'Ambrosio who decided that Pinelli's fall from a window had been caused by his being taken ill and losing his balance.\n\nMeanwhile, the anarchist Valpreda and five others were convicted and jailed for the bombing. They were later released after three years of preventive detention. Then, two neo-fascists, Franco Freda (resident in Padua) and Giovanni Ventura, were arrested accused of being the organizers of the massacre; in 1987 they were acquitted by the Supreme Court for lack of evidence.\n\nIn the 1990s, new investigations into the Piazza Fontana bombing, citing new witnesses testimony, implicated Freda and Ventura again. However, the pair cannot be put on trial again because of double jeopardy, as they were acquitted of the crime in 1987.\n\nThe Red Brigades, the most prominent far-left terrorist organization, conducted a secret internal investigation that paralleled the official inquiry. They ordered that the inquiry remain secret, because of the unfavorable light that it could shed on other terrorist organizations. The inquiry was discovered after a shootout between the Red Brigade and the Carabinieri at Robbiano di Mediglia in October 1974. The cover-up was exposed in 2000 by Giovanni Pellegrino, at the time President of the Commissione Stragi (Parliamentary Committee on massacres).\n\nThe Red Brigades were founded in August 1970 by Renato Curcio and Margherita (Mara) Cagol, who had met as students at the University of Trento and later married, and Alberto Franceschini.\n\nWhile the Trento group around Curcio had its main roots in the Sociology Department of the Catholic University, the Reggio Emilia group (around Franceschini) mostly included former members of the FGCI (the Communist youth movement) expelled from the parent party for their extremist views.\n\nAnother group of militants came from the Sit-Siemens factories in Milan; these were Mario Moretti, a union official, Corrado Alunni, who would leave the Red Brigades to found another organization «fighter» and Alfredo Buonavita, a blue-collar worker.\n\nThe first action of the RB was burning the car of Giuseppe Leoni (a leader of Sit-Siemens company in Milan) on 17 September 1970, in the context of the labour unrest within the factory.\n\nIn December, a neo-fascist coup, dubbed the \"Golpe Borghese\", was planned by young far-right fanatics, elderly veterans of Italian Social Republic, and supported by members of the \"Corpo Forestale dello Stato\", along with right-aligned entrepreneurs and industrialists. The \"Black Prince\", Junio Valerio Borghese, took part in it. The coup, called off at the last moment, was discovered by the newspaper \"Paese Sera\", and publicly exposed three months later.\n\nOn March 26, Alessandro Floris was assassinated in Genoa by a unit of the October 22 Group, a far-left terrorist organization. An amateur photographer had taken a photo of the killer that enabled police to identify the terrorists. The group was investigated, and more members arrested. Some fled to Milan and joined the \"Gruppi di Azione Partigiana\" (GAP) and, later, the Red Brigades.\n\nThe Red Brigades considered Gruppo XXII Ottobre its predecessor and, in April 1974, they kidnapped Judge Mario Sossi in a failed attempt at freeing the jailed members. Years later, the Red Brigades killed judge Francesco Coco on June 8, 1976, along with his two police escorts, Giovanni Saponara and Antioco Deiana, in revenge.\n\nOn 17 May 1972, police officer Luigi Calabresi, a recipient of the gold medal of the Italian Republic for civil valour, was killed in Milan. Authorities initially focused on suspects in \"Lotta Continua\"; then it was assumed that the Calabresi had been killed by neo-fascist organizations, bringing about the arrest of two neo-fascist activists, Gianni Nardi and Bruno Stefano, along with German Gudrun Kiess, in 1974. They were ultimately released. Sixteen years later, Adriano Sofri, Giorgio Petrostefani, Ovidio Bompressi, and Leonardo Marino were arrested in Milan following Marino's confession to the murder. Their trial finally established their guilt in organising and carrying out the assassination.\nCalabresi's assassination opened the chapter of assassinations carried out by armed groups of the far-left.\n\nOn 31 May 1972, three Italian Carabinieri were killed in Peteano in a bombing, attributed to \"Lotta Continua\". Officers of the Carabinieri were later indicted and convicted for perverting the course of justice. Judge Casson identified \"Ordine Nuovo\" member Vincenzo Vinciguerra as the man who had planted the Peteano bomb.\n\nThe neo-fascist terrorist Vinciguerra, arrested in the 1980s for the bombing in Peteano, declared to magistrate Felice Casson that this false flag attack had been intended to force the Italian state to declare a state of emergency and to become more authoritarian. Vinciguerra explained how the SISMI military intelligence agency had protected him, allowing him to escape to Francoist Spain.\n\nCasson's investigation revealed that the right-wing organization Ordine Nuovo had collaborated with the Italian Military Secret Service, SID (\"Servizio Informazioni Difesa\"). Together, they had engineered the Peteano attack and then blamed the Red Brigades. He confessed and testified that he had been covered by a network of sympathizers in Italy and abroad who had ensured that he could escape after the attack. «A whole mechanism came into action», Vinciguerra recalled, «that is, the Carabinieri, the Minister of the Interior, the customs services and the military and civilian intelligence services accepted the ideological reasoning behind the attack.»\n\nA 16 April 1973 attack by members of Potere Operaio on the house of neo-fascist Italian Social Movement (MSI) militant Mario Mattei resulted in his two sons, aged 8 and 20, being burned alive.\n\nDuring a 17 May 1973 ceremony honoring Luigi Calabresi, in which the Interior Minister was present, Gianfranco Bertoli, an anarchist, threw a bomb that killed four and injured 45.\n\nIn 1975, Bertoli was sentenced to life imprisonment: the Milan Court wrote that he was embroiled in connections with the far-right, that was a SID informant and a confidant of the Police.\n\nIn the 1990s it was suspected that Bertoli was a member of Gladio but he denied it in an interview: in the list of 622 Gladio members made public in 1990, his name is missing.\n\nA magistrate investigating the assassination attempt of Mariano Rumor found that Bertoli's files were incomplete. General , head of the SID from 1971 to 1975, was convicted \"in absentia\" in 1990 for obstruction of justice in the Mariano Rumor case.\n\nIn May 1974, a bomb exploded during an anti-fascist demonstration in Brescia, killing eight and wounding 102. On 16 November 2010, the Court of Brescia acquitted the defendants: Francesco Delfino (a Carabiniere), Carlo Maria Maggi, Pino Rauti, Maurizio Tramonte and Delfo Zorzi (members of the \"Ordine Nuovo\" neo-fascist group). The prosecutor had requested life sentences for Delfino, Maggi, Tramonte and Zorzi, and acquittal for lack of evidence for Pino Rauti. The four defendants were acquitted again by the appeal court in 2012 but, in 2014, the supreme court ruled that the appeal trial would have to be held again at the appeal court of Milan for Maggi and Tramonte. Delfino and Zorzi were definitively acquitted. On July 22, 2015, the appeal court sentenced Maggi and Tramonte to life imprisonment for ordering and co-ordinating the massacre.\n\nOn 17 June 1974, two members of MSI were murdered in Padua. Initially, an internal feud between neo-fascist groups was suspected, since the crime had occurred in the city of Franco Freda. However, the murder was then claimed by the Red Brigades: it was the first murder of the organization, which, until then had only committed robberies, bombings and kidnappings.\n\nCount Edgardo Sogno said in his memoirs that in July 1974, he visited the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) station chief in Rome to inform him of preparations for a neo-fascist coup. Asking what the United States (US) government would do in case of such a coup, Sogno wrote that he was told, \"the United States would have supported any initiative tending to keep the communists out of government.\" \nGeneral Maletti declared, in 2001, that he had not known about Sogno's relationship with the CIA and had not been informed about the coup, known as \"Golpe bianco\" (White Coup), led by Randolfo Pacciardi.\n\nOn 4 August, 12 died and 105 were injured in the bombing of the Italicus Roma-Brennero express at San Benedetto Val di Sambro.\n\nGeneral Vito Miceli, chief of the SIOS military intelligence agency in 1969, and head of the SID from 1970 to 1974, was arrested in 1974 on charges of «conspiracy against the state». Following his arrest, the Italian secret services were reorganized by a 24 October 1977 law in an attempt to reassert civilian control over the intelligence agencies. The SID was divided into the current SISMI, the SISDE, and the CESIS, which was to directly coordinate with the Prime Minister of Italy. An Italian Parliamentary Committee on Secret services control (Copaco) was created at the same time. Miceli was acquitted in 1978.\n\nIn 1974, some leaders of the Red Brigades, including Renato Curcio and Alberto Franceschini, were arrested, but new leadership continued the war against the Italian right-wing establishment with increased fervor.\n\nThere were technical conditions for ending terrorism: however, the political class was unwilling: the Italian left wing was less worried by the existence of an armed organization than by the possible abuses by the police against protesters. It did therefore ask for the disarmament of police during street demonstrations. Also in the ruling Christian Democracy), many underestimated the threat of the Red Brigades (speaking of \"phantom\" Red Brigades), emphasizing instead that of neo-fascist groups.\n\nThe year before, \"Potere Operaio\" had disbanded, although \"Autonomia Operaia\" carried on in its wake. \"Lotta Continua\" also dissolved in 1976, although their magazine struggled on for several years. From the remnants of \"Lotta Continua\" and similar groups, the terror organization \"Prima Linea\" emerged.\n\nOn 28 February, student and right activist Mikis Mantakas was killed by far-leftists during riots.\n\nOn 13 March, young militant of Italian Social Movement (MSI) Sergio Ramelli was assaulted in Milan by a group of \"Avanguardia Operaia\" and wounded in the head with wrenches (aka \"Hazet 36\"). He died on 29 April, after 47 days in the hospital.\n\nOn 25 May, student and left activist Alberto Brasili was stabbed in Milan by neo-fascist militants.\n\nOn 5 June, Giovanni D'Alfonso, member of the Carabinieri police force, was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 29 April, lawyer and militant of Italian Social Movement (MSI) Enrico Pedenovi was killed in Milan by the organization \"Prima Linea\". This was the first assassination conducted by \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 8 July, in Rome, Judge Vittorio Occorsio was killed by neo-fascist Pierluigi Concutelli.\n\nOn 14 December, in Rome, policeman Prisco Palumbo was killed by the \"Nuclei Armati Proletari\".\n\nOn 15 December, in Sesto San Giovanni (a town near Milan), vice chief Vittorio Padovani and Marshal Sergio Bazzega were killed by young extremist Walter Alasia.\n\nOn 12 March, a Turin policeman Giuseppe Ciotta was killed by \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 22 March, a Rome policeman Claudio Graziosi was killed by \"Nuclei Armati Proletari\".\n\nOn 28 April, in Turin, lawyer Fulvio Croce was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 14 May, in Milan, activists from a far-left organization pulled out their pistols and began to shoot at the police, killing policeman Antonio Custra. A photographer took a photo of an activist shooting at the police. This year was called the time of the \"P38\", referring to the Walther P38 pistol.\n\nOn 16 November, in Turin, Carlo Casalegno, deputy director of the newspaper \"La Stampa\", was seriously wounded in an ambush of the \"Red Brigades\". He died thirteen days later, on November 29.\n\nOn 4 January, in Cassino, Fiat boss security services Carmine De Rosa was killed by leftists.\n\nOn 7 January, in Rome young militants of Italian Social Movement (MSI) Franco Bigonzetti and Francesco Ciavatta were killed by far-leftists, another militant (Stefano Recchioni) was killed by the police during a violent demonstration. Some militants left the MSI and founded the \"Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari\", which had ties with the Roman criminal organization \"Banda della Magliana\".\n\nOn 20 January, in Florence, policeman Fausto Dionisi was killed by \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 7 February, in Prato (a town near Florence), notary Gianfranco Spighi was killed by leftists.\n\nOn 14 February, in Rome, Judge Riccardo Palma was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 10 March, in Turin, Marshal Rosario Berardi was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 11 April, in Turin, policeman Lorenzo Cotugno was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 20 April, in Milan, policeman Francesco De Cataldo was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 10 October, in Rome, judge Girolamo Tartaglione was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 11 October, in Naples, university teacher Alfredo Paolella was killed by \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 8 November, in Patrica (a town near Frosinone), judge Fedele Calvosa was killed by the \"Unità Comuniste Combattenti\".\n\nOn March 16, 1978, Aldo Moro was kidnapped by the Red Brigades (then led by Mario Moretti) and five of his security detail were killed. Aldo Moro was a left-leaning Christian Democrat who served several times as prime minister; before his murder, he had been trying to include the Italian Communist Party (PCI), headed by Enrico Berlinguer, in the government through a deal called the \"Historic Compromise\". PCI was, at the time, the largest communist party in western Europe; was mainly because of its non-extremist and pragmatic stance, its growing independence from Moscow and its eurocommunist doctrine. The PCI was especially strong in areas such as Emilia Romagna, where it had stable government positions and mature practical experience, which may have contributed to a more pragmatic approach to politics. The Red Brigades were fiercely opposed by the Communist Party and trade unions: a few left-wing politicians even used the condescending expression \"comrades who do wrong\" (\"Compagni che sbagliano\"). , one of RB's members who participated at the kidnapping, declared that the decision to kidnap Moro \"was taken a week before, a day was decided, it could have been March 15 or 17\".\n\nOn May 9, 1978, after a summary \"trial of the people\", Moro was murdered by Mario Moretti with, it was also determined, the participation of . The corpse was found that same day in the trunk of a red Renault 4 in via Michelangelo Caetani, in downtown Rome. A consequence there was the fact that the PCI did not gain executive power.\n\nMoro's assassination was followed by a large clampdown on the social movement, including the arrest of many members of \"Autonomia Operaia\", including, Oreste Scalzone and political philosopher Antonio Negri (arrested on 7 April 1979).\n\nActive armed organization grew from 2 in 1969 to 91 in 1977 and 269 in 1979. In that year there were 659 attacks.\n\nOn 19 January, Turin policeman Giuseppe Lorusso was killed by the \"Prima Linea\" organization.\n\nOn 24 January, worker and trade unionist Guido Rossa was killed in Genoa by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 29 January, Judge Emilio Alesandrini was killed in Milan by \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 9 March, university student Emanuele Iurilli was killed in Turin by \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 20 March, investigative journalist Mino Pecorelli was gunned down in his car in Rome. Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti and Mafia boss Gaetano Badalamenti were sentenced in 2002 to 24 years in prison for the murder, though the sentences were overturned the following year.\n\nOn 3 May, in Rome, policemen Antonio Mea and Piero Ollanu were killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 13 July, in Druento (a town near Turin), policeman Bartolomeo Mana was killed by \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 13 July, in Rome, Lieutenant Colonel of Carabinieri Antonio Varisco was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 18 July, barman Carmine Civitate was killed in Turin, by \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 21 September, Carlo Ghiglieno was killed in Turin by a group of \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 11 December, five teachers and five students of the \"Valletta\" Institute in Turin were shot in the legs by \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 8 January, Milan policemen Antonio Cestari, Rocco Santoro and Michele Tatulli were killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 25 January, Genoa policemen Emanuele Tuttobene and Antonio Casu were killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 29 January, manager of Porto Marghera's petrochemical Silvio Gori was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 5 February, in Monza, Paolo Paoletti was killed by \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 7 February, Prima Linea's militant William Vaccher was killed on suspicion of treason.\n\nOn 12 February, in Rome, at the \"La Sapienza\" University, Vittorio Bachelet, vice-president of the Superior Council of Magistrates and former president of the Roman Catholic association Azione Cattolica, was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 10 March, in Rome, cook Luigi Allegretti was killed by \"Compagni armati per il Comunismo\".\n\nOn 16 March, in Salerno, Judge Nicola Giacumbi was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 18 March, in Rome, Judge Girolamo Minervini was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 19 March, in Milan, Judge Guido Galli was killed by a group of \"Prima Linea\".\n\nOn 10 April, in Turin, Giuseppe Pisciuneri a Mondialpol guard, was killed by \"Ronde Proletarie\".\n\nOn 28 May, in Milan, journalist Walter Tobagi was killed by \"Brigata XXVIII marzo\".\n\nOn 23 June, in Rome, Judge Mario Amato was killed by the \"Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari\".\n\nOn 31 December, in Rome, General of Carabinieri Enrico Galvaligi was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 2 August, a bomb killed 85 people and wounded more than 200 in Bologna. Known as the Bologna massacre, the blast destroyed a large portion of the city's railway station. This was found to be a neo-fascist bombing, mainly organized by the \"Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari\": Francesca Mambro and Valerio Fioravanti were sentenced to life imprisonment. In April 2007 the Supreme Court confirmed the conviction of Luigi Ciavardini, a NAR member associated closely with close ties to \"Terza Posizione\". Ciavardini received a 30-year prison sentence for his role in the attack.\n\nOn 5 July, Giuseppe Taliercio, director of the Porto Marghera's Montedison petrochemical establishment, was killed by the \"Red Brigades\" after 47 days of kidnapping.\n\nOn 3 August, Roberto Peci, worker electrician, was killed by the \"Red Brigades\" after 54 days of kidnapping. It's a vendetta against his brother Patrizio, member of RB became pentito the year before.\n\nOn 17 December, James L. Dozier, an American general and the deputy commander of NATO's South European forces based in Verona, was kidnapped by \"Red Brigades\". He was freed in Padua on 28 January 1982 by the \"Nucleo Operativo Centrale di Sicurezza\" (NOCS), an Italian police anti-terrorist task force.\n\nOn 26 August, a group of Red Brigades terrorists attacked a military troop convoy, in Salerno. In the attack, Corporal Antonio Palumbo and policemen Antonio Bandiera and Mario De Marco were killed. The terrorists escaped.\n\nOn 21 October, a group of Red Brigades terrorists attacked a bank in Turin, killing two guards, Antonio Pedio and Sebastiano d'Alleo.\n\nOn 15 February, Leamon Hunt, American diplomat and Director General of the international peacekeeping force, Multinational Force and Observers (MFO), was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 23 December, a bomb in a train between Florence and Rome killed 17 and wounded more than 200. In 1992, Mafia's members Giuseppe Calò and Guido Cercola were sentenced to life imprisonment, Franco Di Agostino (another member of the Sicilian Mafia) got 24 years, and German engineer Friedrich Schaudinn 22 for the bombing. Camorra's member Giuseppe Misso was sentenced to 3 years; other members of Camorra, Alfonso Galeota and Giulio Pirozzi were sentenced to 18 months, and their role in the massacre was deemed marginal. On February 18, 1994, the Florence court absolved MSI member of Parliament Massimo Abbatangelo from the massacre charge, but ruled him guilty of giving the explosive to Misso in the spring of 1984. Abbatangelo was sentenced to 6 years. Victims' relatives asked for a tougher sentence, but lost the appeal and had to pay for judiciary expenses.\n\nOn 9 January, in Torvaianica (a town near Rome), policeman Ottavio Conte was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 27 March, in Rome, economist Ezio Tarantelli was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 10 February 1986, Lando Conti, former Mayor of Florence, was killed by the \"Red Brigades\".\n\nOn 20 March 1987, Licio Giorgieri, a general in the Italian Air Force, was assassinated by the \"Red Brigades\" in Rome.\n\nOn 16 April 1988, Senator Roberto Ruffilli was assassinated in an attack by a group of the \"Red Brigades\" in Forlì. It was the last murder committed by the \"Red Brigades\": on 23 October a group of irreducibles declared, in a document, that war against the State was over.\n\nIn the late 1990s - early 2000s (decade), a resurgence of \"Red Brigades\" terrorism led to further assassinations.\n\nOn 20 May 1999, Massimo D'Antona, consultant to the Ministry of Labour, was assassinated in an attack by a group of terrorists of the \"Red Brigades\" in Rome.\n\nOn 19 March 2002, Marco Biagi, consultant to the Ministry of Labour, was assassinated in an attack by a group of terrorists of the \"Red Brigades\" in Bologna.\n\nOn 2 March 2003, Emanuele Petri, a policeman, was assassinated by a group of \"Red Brigades\" terrorists near Castiglion Fiorentino.\n\nIn 2005, some suspected terrorists, known as the New Red Brigades (\"Nuove Brigate Rosse\") were arrested. On June 13, the court of Milan condemned 14 terrorists. The leader was sentenced to 15 years in jail. Three suspected terrorists were found not guilty.\n\nThe Mitterrand doctrine, which was established in 1985 by then French president François Mitterrand, stated that Italian far-left terrorists who fled to France and who were convicted of violent acts in Italy, excluding \"active, actual, bloody terrorism\" during the \"Years of Lead\", would receive asylum and would not be subject to extradition to Italy. They would be integrated into French society.\n\nThe act was announced on 21 April 1985, at the 65th Congress of the Human Rights League (\"Ligue des droits de l'homme\", LDH), stating that Italian criminals who had given up their violent pasts and had fled to France would be protected from extradition to Italy:\n\nSome Italian citizens accused of terrorist acts have found refuge in Brazil such as Cesare Battisti and others former members of the Armed Proletarians for Communism, a far-left militant and terrorist organization.\n\nSome Italian far-left activists found political asylum in Nicaragua, including Alessio Casimirri, who took part in the kidnapping of Aldo Moro.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23363890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23363890", "title": "Yogyakarta Principles", "text": "Yogyakarta Principles\n\nThe Yogyakarta Principles is a document about human rights in the areas of sexual orientation and gender identity, published as the outcome of an international meeting of human rights groups in Yogyakarta, Indonesia, in November 2006. The Principles were supplemented in 2017, expanding to include new grounds of gender expression and sex characteristics, and a number of new principles.\n\nThe Principles and the supplement contains a set of precepts intended to apply the standards of international human rights law to address the abuse of human rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) and intersex people.\n\nThe Principles themselves are a lengthy document addressing legal matters. A website established to hold the principles and make them accessible has an overview of the principles, reproduced here in full:\n\n\nThe website promoting the Principles notes that concerns have been voiced about a trend of people's human rights being violated because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. While the United Nations human rights instruments detail obligations to ensure that people are protected from discrimination and stereotypes, which includes people's expression of sexual orientation or gender identity, implementation of these rights has been fragmented and inconsistent internationally. The Principles aim to provide a consistent understanding about application of international human rights law in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity.\n\nThe Yogyakarta Principles were developed at a meeting of the International Commission of Jurists, the International Service for Human Rights and human rights experts from around the world at Gadjah Mada University on Java from 6 to 9 November 2006. The seminar clarified the nature, scope and implementation of states' human rights obligations under existing human rights treaties and law, in relation to sexual orientation and gender identity. The principles that developed out of this meeting were adopted by human rights experts from around the world, and included judges, academics, a former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, NGOs and others. The Irish human rights expert Michael O'Flaherty was rapporteur responsible for drafting and development of the Yogyakarta Principles adopted at the meeting. Vitit Muntarbhorn and Sonia Onufer Corrêa were the co-chairpersons.\n\nThe concluding document \"contains 29 principles adopted unanimously by the experts, along with recommendations to governments, regional intergovernmental institutions, civil society, and the UN itself\". The principles are named after Yogyakarta, the city where the conference was held. These principles have not been adopted by States in a treaty, and are thus not by themselves a legally binding part of international human rights law. However the Principles are intended to serve as an interpretive aid to the human rights treaties.\n\nAmong the 29 signatories of the principles were Mary Robinson, Manfred Nowak, Martin Scheinin, Mauro Cabral, Sonia Corrêa, Elizabeth Evatt, Philip Alston, Edwin Cameron, Asma Jahangir, Paul Hunt, Sanji Mmasenono Monageng, Sunil Babu Pant, Stephen Whittle and Wan Yanhai. The signatories intended that the Yogyakarta Principles should be adopted as a universal standard, affirming binding international legal standard with which all States must comply but some states have expressed reservations.\n\nIn alignment with the movement towards establishing basic human rights for all people, the Yogyakarta Principles specifically address sexual orientation and gender identity. The Principles were developed in response to patterns of abuse reported from around the world. These included examples of sexual assault and rape, torture and ill-treatment, extrajudicial executions, honour killing, invasion of privacy, arbitrary arrest and imprisonment, medical abuse, denial of free speech and assembly and discrimination, prejudice and stigmatization in work, health, education, housing, family law, access to justice and immigration. These are estimated to affect millions of people who are, or have been, targeted on the basis of perceived or actual sexual orientation or gender identity.\n\nThe finalised Yogyakarta Principles was launched as a global charter on 26 March 2007 at the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva. Michael O'Flaherty, spoke at the International Lesbian and Gay Association (ILGA) Conference in Lithuania on 27 October 2007; he explained that \"all human rights belong to all of us. We have human rights because we exist – not because we are gay or straight and irrespective of our gender identities\", but that in many situations these human rights are not respected or realised, and that \"the Yogyakarta Principles is to redress that situation\".\n\nThe Yogyakarta Principles were presented at a United Nations event in New York City on 7 November 2007, co-sponsored by Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay. Human Rights Watch explain that the first step towards this would be the de-criminalisation of homosexuality in 77 countries that still carry legal penalties for people in same-sex relationships, and repeal of the death penalty in the seven countries that still have the death penalty for such sexual practice.\n\nOn 10 November 2017, the \"Yogyakarta Principles plus 10\" (The YP +10) to the supplement the Principles, formally as \"Additional Principles and State Obligation on the Application of International Human Rights Law in Relation to Sexual Orientation, Gender Expression and Sex Characteristics to Complement the Yogyakarta Principles\", emerged from the intersection of the developments in international human rights law with the emerging understanding of violations suffered by person on ground of sexual orientation and gender identity and the recognition of the district and intersectional grounds of gender expression and sex characteristics.\n\nThe update was drafted by a committee of Mauro Cabral Grinspan, Morgan Carpenter, Julia Ehrt, Sheherezade Kara, Arvind Narrain, Pooja Patel, Chris Sidoti and Monica Tabengwa. Signatories additionally include Philip Alston, Edwin Cameron, Kamala Chandrakirana, Sonia Onufer Corrêa, David Kaye, Maina Kiai, Victor Madrigal-Borloz, Sanji Mmasenono Monageng, Vitit Muntarbhorn, Sunil Pant, Dainius Puras, Ajit Prakash Shah, Sylvia Tamale, Frans Viljoen, and Kimberly Zieselman.\n\nThe compilers explain that the Principles detail how international human rights law can be applied to sexual orientation and gender identity issues, in a way that affirms international law and to which all states can be bound. They maintain that wherever people are recognised as being born free and equal in dignity and rights, this should include LGBT people. They argue that human rights standards can be interpreted in terms of sexual orientation and gender identity when they touch on issues of torture and violence, extrajudicial execution, access to justice, privacy, freedom from discrimination, freedom of expression and assembly, access to employment, health-care, education, and immigration and refugee issues. The Principles aim to explain that States are obliged to ensure equal access to human rights, and each principle recommends how to achieve this, highlighting international agencies' responsibilities to promote and maintain human rights.\n\nThe Principles are based on the recognition of the right to non-discrimination. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR) has dealt with these matters in its General Comments, the interpretative texts it issues to explicate the full meaning of the provisions of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. In General Comments Nos. 18 of 2005 (on the right to work), 15 of 2002 (on the right to water) and 14 of 2000 (on the right to the highest attainable standard of health), it indicated that the Covenant proscribes any discrimination on the basis of, \"inter alia\", sex and sexual orientation \"that has the intention or effect of nullifying or impairing the equal enjoyment or exercise of [the right at issue]\".\n\nThe Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), notwithstanding that it has not addressed the matter in a General Comment or otherwise specified the applicable provisions of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women, on a number of occasions has criticised states, for discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. For example, it also addressed the situation in Kyrgyzstan and recommended that, 'lesbianism be reconceptualised as a sexual orientation and that penalties for its practice be abolished'.\n\nThe Principles have never been accepted by the United Nations and the attempt to make gender identity and sexual orientation new categories of non-discrimination has been repeatedly rejected by the General Assembly, the UN Human Rights Council and other UN bodies. In July 2010, Vernor Muñoz, United Nations Special Rapporteur on the Right to Education, presented to the United Nations General Assembly an interim report on the human right to comprehensive sexual education, in which he cited the Yogyakarta Principles as a Human Rights standard. In the ensuing discussion, the majority of General Assembly Third Committee members recommended against adopting the principles. The Representative of Malawi, speaking on behalf of all African States argued that the report:\n\nReflected an attempt to introduce controversial notions and a disregard to the Code of Conduct for Special Procedures Mandate-holders as outlined in Human Rights Council resolution 8/4. She expressed alarm at the reinterpretation of existing human rights instruments, principles and concepts. The report also selectively quoted general comments and country-specific recommendations made by treaty bodies and propagated controversial and unrecognized principles, including the so-called Yogyakarta Principles, to justify his personal opinion.\n\nTrinidad and Tobago, on behalf of the Caribbean States members of CARICOM, argued that the special rapporteur \"had chosen to ignore his mandate, as laid down in Human Rights Council resolution 8/4, and to focus instead on the so-called 'human right to comprehensive education.' Such a right did not exist under any internationally agreed human rights instrument or law and his attempts to create one far exceeded his mandate and that of the Human Rights Council.\" The representative of Mauritania, speaking on behalf of the Arab League, said that the Arab States were \"dismayed\" and accused the rapporteur of attempting to promote \"controversial doctrines that did not enjoy universal recognition\" and to \"redefine established concepts of sexual and reproductive health education, or of human rights more broadly\". The Russian Federation expressed \"its disappointment and fundamental disagreement with the report,\" writing of the rapporteur:\n\nAs justification for his conclusions, he cited numerous documents which had not been agreed to at the intergovernmental level, and which therefore could not be considered as authoritative expressions of the opinion of the international community. In particular, he referred to the Yogyarkarta Principles and also to the International Technical Guidance on Sexuality Education. Implementation of various provisions and recommendations of the latter document would result in criminal prosecution for such criminal offences as corrupting youth.\n\nThe Council of Europe states in \"Human Rights and Gender Identity\" that Principle 3 of the Yogyakarta Principles is \"of particular relevance\". They recommend that member states \"abolish sterilisation and other compulsory medical treatment as a necessary legal requirement to recognise a person's gender identity in laws regulating the process for name and sex change,\" (V.4) as well as to \"make gender reassignment procedures, such as hormone treatment, surgery and psychological support, accessible for transgender persons, and ensure that they are reimbursed by public health insurance schemes.\" (V.5) Similarly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe adopted a document titled \"Discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity\" on 23 March 2010, describing the prejudice that \"homosexuality is immoral\" as a \"subjective view usually based on religious dogma that, in a democratic society, cannot be a basis for limiting the rights of others.\" The document argued that the belief that \"homosexuality is worsening the demographic crisis and threatening the future of the nation\" is \"illogical,\" and that \"granting legal recognition to same-sex couples has no influence on whether heterosexuals marry or have children.\"\n\nHowever, the Principles have been cited by numerous national governments and court judgments. The principles influenced the proposed UN declaration on sexual orientation and gender identity in 2008.\n\nHuman rights and LGBT-rights groups took up the principles, and discussion has featured in the gay press, as well as academic papers and text books (see bibliography).\n\nA US-based Christian think tank, the Catholic Family and Human Rights Institute, claimed that the Principles could devalue the concept of the family and parental authority, could be used to restrict freedom of speech.\n\nThe Yogyakarta Principles mention intersex only briefly. In a manual on \"Promoting and Protecting Human Rights in relation to Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Sex Characteristics\" the Asia Pacific Forum of National Human Rights Institutions (APF) states that \"The Principles do not deal appropriately or adequately with the application of international human rights law in relation to intersex people. They do not specifically distinguish sex characteristics.\"\n\nThese issues were addressed in the Yogyakarta Principles plus 10 update. Boris Dittrich of Human Rights Watch comments that the new update \"protects intersex children from involuntary modification of their sex characteristics\".\n\n\n"}
