{"id": "967091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=967091", "title": "Agrippa d'Aubigné", "text": "Agrippa d'Aubigné\n\nThéodore-Agrippa d'Aubigné (8 February 155229 April 1630) was a French poet, soldier, propagandist and chronicler. His epic poem \"Les Tragiques\" (1616) is widely regarded as his masterpiece.\n\nBorn at the Aubigné Château of Saint-Maury near Pons in the present day Charente-Maritime, the son of Jean d'Aubigné, who was implicated in the Huguenot Amboise conspiracy to kidnap the King (1560). According to his own account he knew Latin, Greek and Hebrew at six years of age, and he had translated the \"Crito\" of Plato before he was eleven. His father strengthened his Protestant sympathies by showing him, while they were passing through that town on their way to Paris, the heads of the conspirators exposed upon the scaffold, and instructing him not to spare his own head in order to avenge their death.\n\nAfter a brief residence he was obliged to flee from Paris to avoid persecution, but was captured and threatened with death. Escaping through the intervention of a friend, he went to Montargis. In his fourteenth year he was present at the siege of Orléans, at which his father was killed.\n\nIn 1567 he made his escape from tutelage, and attached himself to the Huguenot army under the prince of Condé. Aubigné studied in Paris, Orléans, Geneva (under the tutelage of Theodore Beza) and Lyon before joining the Huguenot cause of Henry of Navarre (Henry IV) as both soldier and counsellor. After a furious battle at Casteljaloux, and suffering from fever from his wounds, he wrote his \"Tragiques\" in 1571. He was in the battle of Coutras (1587), and at the siege of Paris (1590). His career at camp and court, however, was a somewhat chequered one, owing to the roughness of his manner and the keenness of his criticisms, which made him many enemies and severely tried the king's patience. In his tragédie-ballet \"Circe\" (1576) he did not hesitate to indulge in the most outspoken sarcasm against the king and other members of the royal family.\n\nHenry's accession to the throne of France entailed an, at least nominal, conversion to the Roman Catholic Church and Aubigné left his service to tend to his own Poitou estates, even though his Huguenot confederates welcomed Henry's religious tolerance. However he never entirely lost the favour of Henry, who made him governor of Maillezais. d'Aubigné remained true to the Huguenot cause, and a fearless advocate of the Huguenot interests. The first two volumes of the work by which he is best known, his \"Histoire universelle depuis 1550 jusqu'à l'an 1601\", appeared in 1616 and 1618 respectively. The third volume was published in 1619, but, being still more free and personal in its satire than those which had preceded it, it was immediately ordered to be burned by the common hangman.\n\nWhen Marie de' Medici became regent following Henry's assassination in 1610, she embraced the Counter-Reformation and Aubigné's isolation made him an easy target. He was proscribed in 1620 and fled to Geneva where he lived for the rest of his life, though the hatred of the French court showed itself in procuring a sentence of death to be recorded against him more than once. He devoted the period of his exile to study, and supervising the fortifications of Bern and Basel which were designed as a material defence of the cause of Protestantism.\n\nHis daughter Louise Arthemise d'Aubigné, Madame de Villette, was born in 1584 at Mursay to Suzanne de Lusignan de Lezay; at an early age on 22 October 1610 she married Benjamin Valois de Vilette in Maillezais.\n\nHis son, Constant d'Aubigné, led a scandalous life of adventure; still, his son Theodore (1613–1670) continued on the d'Aubigné line. Between his two sons, and then later his three grandsons, the family eventually sailed to England in the late 1680s, or America, avoiding the Huguenot persecution in Europe. Later in 1715 or thereabouts, most if not all of the main family had sailed to the new world and settled on the east coast near the North River around Falls Church, Virginia, and changed their name to Dabney. His great grand daughter Françoise Charlotte d'Aubigné married into the House of Noailles.\n\n\nWritten over some three decades, the alexandrine verse of this epic poem relies on multiple genres as well as stylistic familiarity with the work of the opposing, Catholic poets of the Pléïade, headed by Pierre de Ronsard. Divided into seven books, a number symbolic of the author's ultimate, apocalyptic intent, the Tragiques incorporates literary influence from classical sources, such as tragedy and satire, palpable in the first three books (\"Les Misères,\" \"Les Princes\" and \"La Chambre Dorée\" respectively), before resorting to influence from genres like ecclesiastical history, martyrology and apocalypse in the creation of the remaining books (\",\" \" \" and \"\").\n\nIn the first of two liminal paratexts, the introduction \"Aux Lecteurs,\" Aubigné endorses the account (also found in his autobiographical \"\"), that the inception of the Tragiques came to him as an ecstatic vision during a near-death experience. In the second, \"L'Auteur À Son Livre,\" Aubigné adopts the metaphor of father as author to name the text that follows (Les Tragiques) as a more pious son than the less religious works of his youth (c.f.: Le Printemps). The intent of the epic is subsequently spelled out as an attack against the falsely beautiful, verisimilar works written by the Catholic poets of the Pléïade for their patrons in the midst of the religious wars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14572662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14572662", "title": "Andrew A. Snelling", "text": "Andrew A. Snelling\n\nAndrew A. Snelling is a young-Earth creationist geologist who works for Answers in Genesis.\n\nSnelling has a Ph.D. in geology from the University of Sydney from 1982. \n\nHe was, for a decade, the geology spokesman for the Creation Science Foundation, the coordinating center for creationism in Australia. He started working for Answers in Genesis in 2007 and serves as AiG's director of research.\nSnelling has been published in standard geological publications estimating the age of geological specimens in billions of years, but has also written articles for creationist journals in which he supports a young-earth creationism viewpoint. He worked in the RATE project.\n\nSnelling appeared in the 2017 creationist documentary film \"Is Genesis History?\"\n\nSnelling, like other young-Earth creationists, believes the Grand Canyon formed after the Biblical flood; the rocks in Grand Canyon were formed billions of years ago and the Grand Canyon itself was formed millions of years ago. In 2013 Snelling applied for a permit to collect 50-60 half-pound rocks from the park. The application was denied because the National Park Service screens applications to take material from the Grand Canyon, in order to protect it. One of the three geologists who reviewed the proposal for the National Park Service stated that the type of rock Snelling was trying to test could be found outside the park, and all three reviewers made it clear they did not consider the proposal scientifically valid. \n\nSnelling submitted a revised proposal in 2016. In a letter dated May 5, 2017, the NPS said it found the application acceptable and it was willing to grant it, if changes were made to locations and methods of collecting rocks; Snelling proposed to chisel away rocks and to do so from highly visible rock faces, to take samples from land that was not park land but rather was on an Indian reservation and also from another location that was likely to have archeological remains. The NPS had authorized a river trip for Snelling to survey locations but not to collect specimens; Snelling objected that this would take too much time and expense, and in response in the May 5 letter, the NPS offered to have staff work with Snelling to map locations in a meeting or conference call.\n\nOn May 9, 2017, Snelling, with the help of the Alliance Defending Freedom, filed a religious discrimination lawsuit against the United States Department of the Interior and the Grand Canyon National Park authorities, citing the Trump administration's executive order of May 4, 2017 about religious liberty. In late June 2017 Answers in Genesis released a statement saying the National Park authorities had issued Snelling a permit to collect rock samples, and that Snelling had withdrawn the lawsuit. Snelling's attorneys did not provide a copy of the permit to a reporter from the \"Phoenix New Times\" who requested it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58336389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58336389", "title": "Battle of Meligalas", "text": "Battle of Meligalas\n\nThe Battle of Meligalas () took place at Meligalas in Messenia in southwestern Greece, on 13–15 September 1944, between the Greek Resistance forces of the Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS) and the Axis collaborationist Security Battalions.\n\nDuring the Axis occupation of Greece, ELAS partisan forces began operating in the Peloponnese from 1942, and in 1943 began to establish their control over the area. To confront them, the German occupation authorities formed the Security Battalions, which took part not only in anti-guerrilla operations but also in mass reprisals against the local civilian population. With the liberation of Greece drawing near in 1944, the Security Battalions were increasingly targeted by ELAS.\n\nFollowing the withdrawal of German forces from the Peloponnese in September 1944, a part of the collaborationist forces in Kalamata withdrew to Meligalas, where a force of about 1,000 Battalionists gathered. There they were quickly surrounded by ELAS detachments, some 1,200 strong. After a three-day battle, the ELAS partisans broke through the fortifications and entered the town. The ELAS victory was followed by a massacre, during which prisoners and civilians were executed near a well (πηγάδα). The number of executed people is variously estimated at between 700 and 1,100 on different counts. After news of the massacre spread, the leadership of ELAS and of its political parent group, the National Liberation Front (EAM) took steps to ensure a peaceful transition of power in most of the country, limiting reprisal occurrences.\n\nDuring the post-war period and following the Greek Civil War, the ruling right-wing establishment immortalized the Meligalas massacre as evidence of communist brutality, and memorialized the victims as patriotic heroes. Following the \"Metapolitefsi\", the official support of this commemoration ceased. The massacre continues to be commemorated by the descendants and ideological sympathizers of the Security Battalions, and remains a point of reference and a rallying cry both for the far right and the left in Greece.\n\nFollowing the German invasion of Greece in April 1941, Adolf Hitler desired to quickly extricate German forces for the impending invasion of the Soviet Union. As a result, the largest portion of the occupied country, including the Peloponnese, came under Italian military control. Western Thrace and eastern Macedonia came under Bulgarian control, and various strategically important areas (notably Athens and Piraeus, Crete, and Thessaloniki with Central Macedonia) remained under German control.\n\nIn the Kalamata Province, the nascent communist-led National Liberation Front (EAM) began its activity in 1942, promoting passive resistance to the unpopular confiscation of crops by the Italian military authorities, and began the first steps to form partisan troops. The first left-wing groups formed across the Peloponnese; their engagements were limited to skirmishes with the Greek Gendarmerie and the Italian Army, and by late 1942 they were almost all either destroyed or forced to evacuate to Central Greece. In April 1943, when the Peloponnese was considered \"partisan-free\" by the occupation authorities, the wing commander Dimitris Michas, who had previously been imprisoned by the Italians, formed a new partisan group on orders from EAM. Following his first successes, and with the arrival of reinforcements requested from the mainland, the group grew and began openly attacking Italian soldiers and their Greek informants. By June 1943, the number of Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS) partisans in the Peloponnese reached about 500 men in total. Due to the lack of a central command and the difficulties of communication, they were dispersed and operated as quasi-autonomous groups. In August 1943, according to a German intelligence report, partisan activity spiked in the mountainous areas of Messenia, where 800 men under Kostas Kanellopoulos operated.\n\nIn early 1943, the \"Hellenic Army\" (ES), formed by mostly royalist former officers, was established as a Resistance group and formed its own small armed groups, which clashed with the Italians. Initially it declared itself a politically independent and neutral force, but after forging ties with royalist networks chiefly in the area and in Athens, it shifted to an anti-EAM stance by July. The British made efforts to unify the local Resistance groups in the Peloponnese, but these failed, and in August 1943 ES clashed with ELAS, while some of its most prominent leaders, such as and possibly also Tilemachos Vrettakos, respectively sought collaboration with the Italian and German occupation authorities against ELAS. However, the apparent delay of German assistance, the losses suffered by Vrettakos' men in a clash with a German force at , and the cessation of Allied air drops to both ES and ELAS, resulted in the defeat and dissolution of the former at the hands of the latter in October. This left EAM/ELAS as the sole organized Resistance force in the Peloponnese.\n\nIn the meantime, after the Italian capitulation in September 1943, the overall command of anti-partisan operations in the southern Peloponnese fell to the German major general Karl von Le Suire, commander of the 117th Jäger Division, which had been moved to the area in July. In October, Le Suire was named the sole military commander in the Peloponnese. The town of Meligalas in northern Messenia, which under Italian occupation had housed a Carabinieri station, now became the seat of two German infantry companies. The Italian capitulation led to the immediate and considerable reinforcement of ELAS in morale, personnel, and materiel, and with British support ELAS forces began attacking German targets. In the mountainous districts of the Peloponnese, representatives of EAM/ELAS translated their monopoly of armed resistance into the exercise of authority, but faced difficulties with the mostly conservative and royalist local population. Peasant disaffection was further fuelled by the requirement to feed the partisans amidst conditions of malnourishment and a general disruption of the agricultural production caused by the mounting hyperinflation and by the large-scale German anti-partisan sweeps (\"Säuberungen\"). These operations involved reprisals against the civilian population, following a July order of the commander of the LXVIII Corps, Hellmuth Felmy. In the Peloponnese, Le Suire carried these orders out with particular ruthlessness, particularly as the partisan threat mounted, resulting in the Kalavryta massacre in December.\nIn 1943, the German commanders in Greece concluded that their own forces were insufficient to suppress ELAS. As a result, and in order to \"spare German blood\", the decision was taken to recruit the anti-communist elements of Greek society to fight EAM. Apart from the \"Evzone Battalions\" (Ευζωνικά Τάγματα) established by the collaborationist government of Ioannis Rallis, in late 1943 independent \"Security Battalions\" (Τάγματα Ασφαλείας, ΤΑ) began being raised, particularly in the Peloponnese, where the political affiliations of a large part of the population and the violent dissolution of ES provided a broad recruitment pool of anti-communists. By early 1944, five battalions were formed and placed under the overall command of Papadongonas. One of them was the Kalamata Security Battalion (Τάγμα Ασφαλείας Καλαμών), based at Meligalas, which controlled the road from Kalamata to Tripolis and the entire area of the south. The Security Battalions were subordinated to the Higher SS and Police Leader in Greece, Walter Schimana, but the development of relations of trust between the individual battalion commands and the local German authorities led to them enjoying a relative freedom of movement. The Security Battalions served as garrisons in towns across the Peloponnese, but also increasingly participated in German anti-partisan operations; they chose those that would be executed among prisoners and themselves executed hostages as reprisals for partisan attacks on German targets (as happened after the execution of Major General Franz Krech by ELAS in April 1944), gaining a reputation for lack of discipline and brutality.\nAfter suffering some early blows, ELAS managed to recover its influence, and from 1944 conducted constant sabotage on the supply routes used by the German army. In April 1944, ELAS for the first time attacked a town held by a German garrison at Meligalas, but the assault was beaten back. In the same month, EAM leader Georgios Siantos, following reports of indiscipline among the partisan forces in the Peloponnese, sent there Aris Velouchiotis as representative of the Political Committee of National Liberation (PEEA), EAM's newly established parallel government. Velouchiotis' task was to reorganize the 3rd ELAS Division, with a total strength of some 6,000 men. Velouchiotis quickly imposed strict discipline, managing to reverse the decline in partisan numbers and increase the number of their attacks on enemy targets. The deterioration of the military situation led Felmy to declare the Peloponnese as a combat zone in May, which allowed Le Suire to in turn declare martial law, limiting the civilian population's freedom of movement and assembly. Nevertheless, the sweeps and reprisals by the Germans and their collaborators were not enough to reverse ELAS penetration of the countryside in Messenia and neighbouring Laconia. In the area of Kalamata, where during the occupation thousands of homes were torched and about 1,500 people had been executed, the reprisals of the Security Battalions continued until late summer. In late August, while clashes between the ELAS and the Germans had decreased, those between ELAS and the Security Battalions increased steadily.\n\nIn November 1943, the Moscow Conference issued a joint \"Statement on Atrocities\" by the Allied leaders Franklin Roosevelt, Winston Churchill and Joseph Stalin, concerning the prosecution and trial of those Germans responsible for war crimes against occupied nations. This also served as the basis for the condemnation of Axis collaborators in the occupied countries. In the spirit of this declaration, the Greek government in exile announced the revocation of Greek nationality from the members of the collaborationist governments, while PEEA issued a legal act proscribing the death penalty for high treason to those who collaborated with the occupation authorities, including the members of the Security Battalions. However, the burgeoning confrontation between EAM and the government in exile and its British backers, who at least since 1943 began to view EAM as an obstacle to their own plans for Britain's post-war role in Greece, led the British to consider the possibility of using the Security Battalions as part of the planned post-war national Greek army, or at least as a means of applying pressure and getting EAM to agree to support a national unity government. Thus, during negotiations on forming a new government, Georgios Papandreou, head of the government in exile, resisted the pressure of the PEEA delegates to publicly condemn the Security Battalions, arguing that this had already been done in the Lebanon Conference in May 1944, and in June he caused the Allied propaganda against the Security Battalions, both through the dropping of leaflets and through radio emissions, to be suspended.\n\nWith the Red Army advancing in the Eastern Front and the invasion of Romania, on 23 August 1944 the German command decided to withdraw the 117th Division from the Peloponnese. Three days later the complete evacuation of German forces from mainland Greece was decided. The British desired the maintenance of the status quo until the arrival of their forces and the Papandreou government, and above all wanted to avoid German arms and equipment from falling into the hands of the partisans. On the other hand, EAM/ELAS and its supporters were eager for revenge on the remnants of the collaborationist Gendarmerie and the Security Battalions. After the German troops withdrew from the Peloponnese, the position of their former allies became highly precarious, and fears of ELAS reprisals spread. On 3 September, the military head of ELAS, Stefanos Sarafis, issued a proclamation calling upon the members of the Security Battalions to surrender with their weapons, in order to safeguard their lives. On the same day the British lieutenant general Ronald Scobie, appointed joint commander-in-chief of all Greek forces, issued an order to his deputy in Athens, the Greek lieutenant general Panagiotis Spiliotopoulos, to recommend to the Security Battalions personnel to either desert or to surrender themselves to him, with the promise that they would be treated as regular prisoners of war. This order, however, either did not apply to the Security Battalions in the Peloponnese or was in the event ignored by them. As EAM had joined the Papandreou government on 15 August, on 6 September a formal declaration of the new national unity government was issued, in which the members of the Security Battalions were designated as criminals against the fatherland, and called upon to \"immediately abandon\" their positions and join the Allies. At the same time, the declaration called on the Resistance forces to stop any acts of reprisal, insisting that dispensing justice was a right reserved by the state and not of \"organizations and individuals\", while promising that \"the national nemesis will be implacable\".\n\nDuring the last months of the German occupation, Walter Blume, the head of the German security police (SD) developed the so-called \"chaos thesis\", involving not only a thorough scorched earth policy, but also encouraging the slide of Greece into civil war and chaos. While Blume's more radical proposals concerning the elimination of the (mostly anti-communist and pro-British) pre-war political leadership were halted by more sober elements in the German leadership, as they withdrew from the Peloponnese in early September, the Germans destroyed bridges and railway lines and left weapons and ammunition to the Security Battalions, laying the groundwork for a civil war with ELAS.\n\nBased on the denunciation of the Security Battalions by the national unity government, ELAS considered the Security Battalions as enemy formations. At Pyrgos, the capital of Elis Prefecture, the commander of the local battalion, Georgios Kokkonis, announced that he placed his unit under the command of the exiled king George II and the national government. Kokkonis conducted negotiations with ELAS, trying to prevent its entry into the city before the arrival of an official government representative, while ELAS demanded the immediate disarmament of the unit. In the end, ELAS attacked on 9 September and after a bloody struggle seized the city on the next day. At Tripolis, the negotiations between Colonel Papadongonas and 3rd ELAS Division quickly broke down. As the partisans surrounded the city, mining the roads and cutting off its water supply, and their own ammunition began to run out, the Battalionists descended into panic. Some defected, but the remainder installed a regime of terror in the city: anyone even suspected of ties to the partisans was imprisoned and Papadongonas threatened to blow them up if ELAS attacked, while his men mined the city and executed people on the streets. Nevertheless, Papadongonas was able to hold out until the end of September, when he surrendered to a British unit.\n\nAt Kalamata, the Germans departed on 5 September, leaving the Gendarmerie as the sole official armed force in the city. Using representatives of the Allied Middle East Headquarters as intermediaries, ELAS approached the prefect of Messenia, Dimitrios Perrotis, proposing the disarmament of the local Security Battalions and their confinement as prisoners until the arrival of the exiled national government. After the proposal was rejected, ELAS attacked the city at dawn of 9 September. As the partisans overcame the Battalionists' resistance, large numbers of local civilians began arriving in the city to take revenge on them. About 100–120 Battalionists, under the command of 2nd Lieutenant Nikos Theofanous and Perrotis, managed to escape the city via the unguarded railway line and sought refuge at Meligalas. A strong force of Security Battalion men was already ensconced there, and was further reinforced by another 100–120 men who arrived from Kopanaki on 11 September.\n\nConsequently, the capture of Meligalas assumed a major importance for ELAS in its bid to secure its control over the Peloponnese. The archimandrite along with two British officers, went to the town to deliver a proposal for the disarmament of the Battalionists and their transfer to a secure prisoner camp until the arrival of the government, in order to secure life and property for themselves and their families, but Perrotis rejected it. Pleas by relatives of the Battalionists who arrived from nearby villages had a similar fate.\n\nThe Battalionists installed a heavy machine gun in the clock tower of the main church in Meligalas, Agios Ilias, and distributed the light machine guns they possessed in houses around the church and in semi-circular ramparts around the paddock of Meligalas. ELAS forces, numbering men from the 8th and 9th Regiments, launched their attack on the morning of 13 September. The attack followed a plan laid down with the participation of (\"nom de guerre\" \"Orion\") from the staff of the 9th ELAS Brigade: 2/9 Battalion assumed the sector between the Meligalas–Anthousa and Meligalas–Neochori roads, 1/9 Battalion assumed the sector northeast of Profitis Ilias height, 3/9 Battalion the northern sector up to the road towards Meropi, and 1/8 Battalion the eastern plain until the road to Skala. At the Skala heights, ELAS also positioned its sole 10.5 cm gun (lacking a gun carriage), commanded by the artillery captain Kostas Kalogeropoulos. The ELAS plan aimed at the rapid advance of 2/9 Battalion, under Captain Tasos Anastasopoulos (\"Kolopilalas\") from the edge of the settlement to the main square, so that the Agios Ilias fort could be attacked on two sides.\n\nThe attackers, however, encountered a minefield of improvised mines (boxes with dynamite) planted by the Battalionists the previous afternoon and evening, during the negotiations with ELAS. A new plan was made, aiming at the storming of Agios Ilias by a company of 2/9 Battalion under . This new assault forced the Battalionists to dismount the heavy machine gun from the clock tower, while the attack of 1/8 Battalion forced the garrison of the railway station to retreat to the bedesten, where a number of EAM sympathizers were being held hostage. From the afternoon to nightfall, the lines of the combatants remained the same, but the losses suffered by the Battalionists led to a fall in their morale and unwillingness to continue the battle. Their commander, Major Dionysios Papadopulos, sent a delegation to request aid from Panagiotis Stoupas in nearby Gargalianoi, but the delegates abandoned their mission as soon as they left Meligalas.\n\nAt noon of 14 September, a group of 30 partisans attacked by throwing German Teller mines on the barbed wire protecting Agios Ilias, but was repulsed amidst a hail of fire by the Battalionists. A squad under Basakidis managed to breach the barricades of the defenders, but left without support, they were thrown back in a counterattack led by the sergeant major Panagiotis Benos. The sight of wounded ELAS fighters, and news of a murder committed by Battalionists, heightened the hostile mood among the civilians observing the battle.\n\nOn the morning of 15 September, the leaders of the Security Battalions met in council. Major Papadopoulos proposed attempting a breakthrough in the direction of Gargalianoi, but the council was abruptly interrupted when the house was hit by a mortar bomb. In addition, rumours of the breakthrough plan were spread by Perrotis' men, panicking the wounded Battalionists, but also the imprisoned EAM sympathizers. The council was terminated following a new ELAS attack on Agios Ilias, during which Basakidis' men, using hand grenades and submachine guns, managed to push the Battalionists back. From their new positions, four ELAS partisans began firing with their light machine guns into the interior of the town, while on the sector of 1/8 Battalion, Battalionists began raising white flags in surrender. A few dozen Battalionists under Major Kazakos tried to escape to the south and thence to Derveni, but suffered heavy casualties from the Reserve ELAS, the \"\" (Velouchiotis' personal guard), and a squad of 11th ELAS Regiment at the heights near Anthousa.\n\nThe end of the battle was followed by the invasion of Meligalas by civilians, and an unchecked plunder and massacre. According to a contemporary report preserved in the archives of the Communist Party of Greece (KKE), these were inhabitants of the village of Skala, which had been torched by the German army. Among the captive Battalionists held in the bedesten, Velouchiotis—who arrived at Meligalas shortly after the end of the battle with his personal escort—recognized a gendarme whom he had previously arrested and then released, and ordered his execution. The first reprisal wave, tacitly encouraged by ELAS through the deliberately loose guarding of its captives, was followed by a series of organized executions.\n\nA partisan court martial was set up in the town, headed by the lawyers Vasilis Bravos and . This court summarily condemned not only the officers and other leaders of the Battalions—lists with their names had been provided by local EAM cells—but also many others, including for reasons having more to do with personal differences rather than any crime committed. The executions took place at an abandoned well (\"πηγάδα\") outside the town. According to usual practice, to avoid the executioners being recognized, the executions were carried out by an ELAS detachment from a different area, most likely a squad of 8th Regiment, whose men were from the area of Kosmas and Tsitalia in Arcadia.\n\nOn 17 September, Velouchiotis moved to Kalamata, where Perrotis and other collaborationist officials were also brought. At the central square of the city, the enraged crowd broke the ranks of the ELAS militia and lynched some of the prisoners, while twelve of them were hanged from lampposts.\n\nIn an ELAS communique of 26 September 1944, Major General Emmanouil Mantakas reported that \"800 \"Rallides\" [the derogatory nickname for the Battalionists, after the collaborationist PM Ioannis Rallis] were killed\", a number repeated by Stefanos Sarafis in his own book on ELAS. A Red Cross report, which generally tried to be as objective as possible, stated that the number of dead \"exceeded 1,000\", while a year later, the team of the noted Greek coroner reported that it recovered 708 corpses from Meligalas.\n\nThe post-war right-wing establishment insisted on a considerably higher tally, with estimates ranging from 1,110 to over 2,500 victims. Thus the National Radical Union politician Kosmas Antonopoulos, whose father had been executed by ELAS, wrote about 2,100 executed people at Meligalas, although he cites data for 699 people. In contrast, authors sympathetic to EAM reduce the number of executions considerably: the most detailed account calculates 120 killed in action and 280–350 executed. Ilias Theodoropoulos, whose brother was killed in Meligalas, in his book (distributed by the \"Society of Victims of the Meligalas Well\") mentions from 1,500 to over 2,000 dead, and provides a list with 1,144 names (of whom 108 from Meligalas) of those killed in action and those executed by ELAS (including some of those lynched in Kalamata, such as Perrotis). Among the victims are 18 elderly, 22 women and 9 adolescents (8 boys and a girl), while all the rest—with some exceptions where age is not mentioned—are men of fighting age.\n\nThe events at Meligalas and Kalamata were detrimental to EAM, whose leadership initially denied that any massacre had taken place, only to be forced to acknowledge it later and issue a condemnation. The more moderate leaders of EAM, Alexandros Svolos and Sarafis, insisted that they faithfully carried out the orders of the national unity government, and issued orders to \"stop all executions\".\n\nThese events demonstrated the willingness of ELAS to take into account significant losses in order to gain control before the arrival of British forces, and its ability to succeed in this goal, led to a shift in British policy: the British liaison officers in the Peloponnese, who until then were under orders not to get involved in events, were now directed to intervene to secure the surrender, safekeeping, and delivery of the Security Battalions' weapons to British forces, to avoid them falling in the hands of ELAS. As a result, due to the mediation of British liaisons, the Red Cross, representatives of the Papandreou government, or even the local EAM authorities, in many towns of Central Greece and the Peloponnese the Security Battalions surrendered without resistance or bloodshed. There were nevertheless several cases where Battalionists, having surrendered, were killed, either by ELAS partisans, or by civilian mobs and relatives of Battalionist victims, as at Pylos or in some places in northern Greece. This was mainly the result of the widespread desire for vengeance among the population, but some cases involved the co-operation or even instigation of EAM cadres. The social polarization between EAM and its opponents, both Liberal and nationalist anti-communists, resulted in the adoption of a sort of double speak. EAM proclaimed that it supported order and the restoration of government authority, while at the same time launching a large-scale bloody extrajudicial purge, in order to secure its political domination before the arrival of the British forces, improve its negotiating position within the government, and satisfy the popular demand for revenge, so as to then demonstrate self-restraint and respect before the law. EAM's rivals on the other hand guaranteed its participation in the government while simultaneously trying to preserve the lives of the collaborationists.\n\nIn general, however, in the power vacuum in the wake of the German withdrawal, the EAM/ELAS officials who assumed control tried to impose order, preventing rioting and looting, and resisted calls for revenge by the populace. According to Mark Mazower, \"ELAS rule was as orderly as was to be expected in the extraordinary circumstances that prevailed. Passions ran high, and intense suspicions were mingled with euphoria\". Furthermore, EAM/ELAS was not a monolithic or tightly controlled organization, and its representatives displayed a variety of behaviour; as British observers noted, in some areas ELAS maintained order \"fairly and impartially\", while abusing their power in others. When British forces landed in the Peloponnese, they found the National Civil Guard, created by EAM in late summer to assume policing duties from the partisans and replace the discredited collaborationist Gendarmerie, maintained control and order. In Patras, for example, joint patrols of British soldiers and Civil Guard men were carried out until November 1944. Reprisals were also a common phenomenon in other European countries that suffered under Nazi occupation, from the mass expulsion of the Germans in eastern Europe to mass executions of collaborationists: over 10,000 in France, and between 12,000 and 20,000 in Italy.\n\nOn 26 September 1944, the Caserta Agreement was signed by Papandreou, EDES leader Napoleon Zervas, Sarafis on behalf of ELAS, and Scobie. The agreement placed ELAS and EDES under Scobie's overall command, and designated the Security Battalions as \"instruments of the enemy\", ordering that they were to be treated as hostile forces if they did not surrender. After the agreement was signed, Scobie ordered his officers to intervene in order to protect the Battalionists, disarming them and confining them under guard.\n\nFollowing the Liberation of Greece in October 1944, in some occasions the families of Meligalas victims received pensions based on the collaborationist government's law 927/1943 on military and civil officials murdered \"by anarchist elements\" during the execution of their duties, a law which was retained by the post-war governments.\n\nSince September 1945, an annual memorial service for the victims has taken place. It is organized by the local authorities and has official representation, including government members during the Greek military junta.\n\nThe Meligalas events were utilized politically and ideologically. The right-wing establishment after the Greek Civil War represented Meligalas as a symbol of \"communist barbarity\", while the Battalionists were commemorated exclusively as opponents or victims of the communists, since the post-war Greek state drew its legitimacy not from the collaborationist government, but from the government in exile. In newspaper announcements for the annual service and the speeches held there, every mention of the victims' membership in the Security Battalions was omitted; instead, they were referred to as \"murdered \"ethnikofrones\" [national-minded persons]\" or \"patriots\".\n\nIn 1982, following the electoral victory of the socialist PASOK the previous year, the Ministry of the Interior declared that these commemorations were promoting intolerance and for 40 years had been promoting division, and decided the cessation of official authorities' attendance at the memorial service. Its organization henceforth was undertaken by the \"Society of Victims of the Meligalas Well\" (Σύλλογος Θυμάτων Πηγάδας Μελιγαλά), established in 1980. The relative marginalization of the memorial service was accompanied by the transformation of the speeches from celebratory to apologetic for the victims' role in the Security Battalions. In recent times, the service is attended by relatives of the victims and by far-right or even neo-Nazi groupings such as Golden Dawn.\nIn the early 1980s, the Meligalas events became a point of reference in confrontations between university students close to the and the Leftist Clusters on the one side and the right-wing ONNED youth organization and its student wing, DAP-NDFK. After the PASOK government officially recognized EAM's contribution in the Greek Resistance in 1982, \"Rigas Feraios\" members coined the slogan \"EAM-ELAS-Meligalas\" (\"ΕΑΜ-ΕΛΑΣ-Μελιγαλάς\") as a counter to the positive portrayal of the Battalionists by the right-wing groups. The slogan remained current in the university students' conference of 1992, following Civil War-era and anti-communist slogans used by DAP. In the late 2000s, when the political slogans and rhetoric of the 1940s increasingly resurfaced in Greek political discourse, and with Golden Dawn's entry into the Greek Parliament in 2012, the Meligalas events were re-evaluated in a positive light by the Greek left as an example of militant anti-fascist action. Reference to them is now commonly combined with typically anti-authoritarian slogans.\n\n"}
{"id": "34597268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34597268", "title": "Bruce R. Watkins", "text": "Bruce R. Watkins\n\nBruce Riley Watkins (March 20, 1924 Parkville, Missouri - September 13, 1980 Kansas City, Missouri) and his stepfather Theron B. Watkins (1877–1950) were prominent political and social activists in Kansas City and Jackson County, Missouri. The younger Watkins was the first African-American elected to Kansas City's City Council, in 1963; the first African-American elected to office in that county's administration, in 1966; and the first African-American to nearly win election as Kansas City Mayor, in April 1979. Mr. Watkins and his close friend Leon Jordan established the political club \"Freedom, Inc.\" in 1962.\n\nMonuments erected in Bruce’s honor include the Spirit of Freedom fountain at Brush Creek Boulevard and Cleveland Avenue in Kansas City, Missouri and the Bruce R. Watkins Cultural Heritage Center at Blue Parkway and Cleveland Avenue and Bruce R. Watkins Drive, a major thoroughfare in Kansas City completed October 22, 2001. Both landmarks are within walking distance of the family business co-founded by Theron Watkins,Watkins Brothers Memorial Chapel.\n\nThe Bruce R. Watkins Cultural Heritage Center, dedicated in December, 1989, is dedicated to the legacy of Mr. Watkins. It features exhibits about the artistic, cultural and social history of the African-American experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "21950720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21950720", "title": "Check dam", "text": "Check dam\n\nA check dam is a small, sometimes temporary, dam constructed across a swale, drainage ditch, or waterway to counteract erosion by reducing water flow velocity. Check dams themselves are not a type of new technology; rather, they are an ancient technique dating all the way back to the second century A.D. Check dams are typically, though not always, implemented as a system of several check dams situated at regular intervals across the area of interest.\nA check dam placed in the ditch, swale, or channel interrupts the flow of water and flattens the gradient of the channel, thereby reducing the velocity. In turn, this obstruction induces infiltration rather than eroding the channel. They can be used not only to slow flow velocity but also to distribute flows across a swale to avoid preferential paths and guide flows toward vegetation. Although some sedimentation may result behind the dam, check dams do not primarily function as sediment trapping devices.\n\nCheck dams could be designed to create small reservoirs, without possibility of silting. A self desilting design was published in 'Invention Intelligence, August, 1987, which while being permanent, would also remove silt as it is formed, keeping the reservoir capacity maximum. The design envisages an awning, going very near the bottom level, extending to the width of the dam, and embedding into the sides. When freshets occur, the silt is automatically carried over to down stream, keeping the reservoir clear.\n\nCheck dams have traditionally been implemented in two main environments: across channel bottoms and on hilly slopes. Check dams are used primarily to control water velocity, conserve soil, and improve land. They are used when other flow-control practices, such as lining the channel or creating bioswales is impractical. Accordingly, they are commonly used in degrading temporary channels, in which permanent stabilization is impractical and infeasible in terms of resource allocation and funding due to the short life period. Or, they are used when construction delays and weather conditions prevent timely installation of other erosion control practices. This is typically seen during the construction process of large-scale permanent dams or erosion control. As such, check dams serve as temporary grade-control mechanisms along waterways until resolute stabilization is established or along permanent swales that need protection prior to installation of a non-erodible lining.\n\nMany check dams tend to form stream pools. Under low-flow circumstances, water either infiltrates into the ground, evaporates, or seeps through or under the dam. Under high flow - flood - conditions, water flows over or through the structure. Coarse and medium-grained sediment from runoff tends to be deposited behind check dams, while finer grains flow through. Extra nutrients, phosphorus, nitrogen, heavy metals, and floating garbage are also trapped by check dams, increasing their effectiveness as water quality control measures.\n\nIn arid areas, check dams are often built to increase groundwater recharge in a process called managed aquifer recharge. Winter runoff thus can be stored in aquifers, from which the water can be withdrawn during the dry season for irrigation, livestock watering, and even drinking water supply. This is particularly useful for small settlements located far from a large urban center as check dams require less reliance on machinery, funding, or advanced understandings as compared to large-scale dam implementation.\n\nCheck dams can be used in combination with limans to stop and collect surface runoff water.\n\nAs a strategy to stabilize mountain streams, the construction of check dams has a long tradition in many mountainous regions dating back to the 19th century in Europe. Because of the steep slopes in the mountain region, it may be difficult for large construction machinery to reach mountain streams; therefore, check dams have been implemented in place of large-scale dams. Because the typical high slope causes the flow velocity to move faster, a terraced system of multiple closely spaced check dams is typically necessary to reduce velocity and thereby counteract erosion. Such consolidation check dams, built in terraces, attempt to prevent both headward and downward cutting into channel beds while also stabilizing adjacent hill slopes. They are further used to mitigate flood and debris flow hazards.\n\nBefore installing a check dam, careful inspection of the site must be undertaken. The drainage area should be ten acres or less. The waterway should be on a slope of no more than 50% and should have a minimum depth to bedrock of 2 ft. Check dams are often used in natural or constructed channels or swales. They should never be placed in live streams unless approved by appropriate local, state and/or federal authorities.\n\nCheck dams are made of a variety of materials. Because they are typically used as temporary structures, they are often made of cheap and accessible materials such as rocks, gravel, logs, hay bales, and sandbags. Of these, logs and rock check dams are usually permanent or semi-permanent; and the sandbag check dam is implemented primarily for temporary purposes. Also, there are check dams that are constructed with rockfill or wooden boards. These dams are usually implemented only in small, open channels that drain or less; and usually do not exceed high. Woven-wire can be used to construct check dams in order to hold fine material in a gully. They are typically utilized in environments where the gully has a moderate slope (less than 10%), small drainage area, and in regions where flood flows do not typically carry large rocks or boulders. In nearly all instances, erosion control blankets, which are biodegradable open-weave blankets, are used in conjunction with check dams. These blankets help enforce vegetation growth on the slopes, shorelines and ditch bottoms.\n\nA check dam should not be more than to high. and the center of the dam should be at least lower than its edges. They may kill grass linings in channels if water stays high or sediment load is great. This criteria induces a weir effect, resulting in increased water surface level upstream for some, if not all flow conditions.\n\nIn order to effectively slow down water velocity to counter the effects of erosion and protect the channel between dams in a larger system, the spacing must be designed properly. The check dams should be spaced such that the toe of the upstream check dam is equal to the elevation of the downstream check dam's crest. By doing so, the water can pond between check dams and thus slow the flow's velocity down substantially as the water progresses downslope.\n\nCheck dams are a highly effective practice to reduce flow velocities in channels and waterways. Contrasting big dams, check dams have a faster implementation timeline, are cost effective, and are smaller in scope. Because of this, their implementation will not typically displace people or communities nor will they destroy natural resources if careful design considerations are undertaken. Moreover, the dams themselves are simple to construct and do not rely on advanced technologies – thereby they can be applied in more rural and less advanced communities, as they have been in India's drylands for some time now.\n\nCheck dams still require maintenance and sediment removal practices. They become more difficult to implement on steep slopes, as velocity is higher and thereby the distance between dams must be shortened. Check dams, depending on the material used, can have a limited life span but if implemented correctly can be considered permanent though not encouraged.\n\nCheck dams require regular maintenance as they are used primarily as a temporary structure and thereby are not designed to withstand long-term use. Dams should be inspected every week that it is sited in the channel and after every large storm. It is important that rubble, litter, and leaves are removed from the upstream side of the dam. This is typically done when the sediment has reached a height of one-half the original height of the dam.\n\nFurther, maintenance is required when removing the check dam altogether. In order to ensure the future flow is not adversely altered, the check dam must be fully removed, including any parts that may have been dislodged and washed downstream or any newly developed bare spots where the check dam once was situated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "701807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=701807", "title": "Children's rights", "text": "Children's rights\n\nChildren's rights are the human rights of children with particular attention to the rights of special protection and care afforded to minors. The 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC) defines a child as \"any human being below the age of eighteen years, unless under the law applicable to the child, majority is attained earlier.\" Children's rights includes their right to association with both parents, human identity as well as the basic needs for physical protection, food, universal state-paid education, health care, and criminal laws appropriate for the age and development of the child, equal protection of the child's civil rights, and freedom from discrimination on the basis of the child's race, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, disability, color, ethnicity, or other characteristics. Interpretations of children's rights range from allowing children the capacity for autonomous action to the enforcement of children being physically, mentally and emotionally free from abuse, though what constitutes \"abuse\" is a matter of debate. Other definitions include the rights to care and nurturing. There are no definitions of other terms used to describe young people such as \"adolescents\", \"teenagers\", or \"youth\" in international law, but the children's rights movement is considered distinct from the youth rights movement. The field of children's rights spans the fields of law, politics, religion, and morality.\n\nAs minors by law, children do not have autonomy or the right to make decisions on their own for themselves in any known jurisdiction of the world. Instead their adult caregivers, including parents, social workers, teachers, youth workers, and others, are vested with that authority, depending on the circumstances. Some believe that this state of affairs gives children insufficient control over their own lives and causes them to be vulnerable. Louis Althusser has gone so far as to describe this legal machinery, as it applies to children, as \"repressive state apparatuses\".\n\nStructures such as government policy have been held by some commentators to mask the ways adults abuse and exploit children, resulting in child poverty, lack of educational opportunities, and child labour. On this view, children are to be regarded as a minority group towards whom society needs to reconsider the way it behaves.\n\nResearchers have identified children as needing to be recognized as participants in society whose rights and responsibilities need to be recognized at all ages.\n\nSir William Blackstone (1765-9) recognized three parental duties to the child: maintenance, protection, and education. In modern language, the child has a right to receive these from the parent.\n\nThe League of Nations adopted the \"Geneva Declaration of the Rights of the Child\" (1924), which enunciated the child's right to receive the requirements for normal development, the right of the hungry child to be fed, the right of the sick child to receive health care, the right of the backward child to be reclaimed, the right of orphans to shelter, and the right to protection from exploitation.\n\nThe United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948) in Article 25(2) recognized the need of motherhood and childhood to \"special protection and assistance\" and the right of all children to \"social protection.\"\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly adopted the \"United Nations Declaration of the Rights of the Child\" (1959), which enunciated ten principles for the protection of children's rights, including the universality of rights, the right to special protection, and the right to protection from discrimination, among other rights.\n\nConsensus on defining children's rights has become clearer in the last fifty years. A 1973 publication by Hillary Clinton (then an attorney) stated that children's rights were a \"slogan in need of a definition\". According to some researchers, the notion of children’s rights is still not well defined, with at least one proposing that there is no singularly accepted definition or theory of the rights held by children.\n\nChildren’s rights law is defined as the point where the law intersects with a child's life. That includes juvenile delinquency, due process for children involved in the criminal justice system, appropriate representation, and effective rehabilitative services; care and protection for children in state care; ensuring education for all children regardless of their race, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, disability, color, ethnicity, or other characteristics, and; health care and advocacy.\n\nChildren have two types of human rights under international human rights law. They have the same fundamental general human rights as adults, although some human rights, such as the \"right to marry\", are dormant until they are of age, Secondly, they have special human rights that are necessary to protect them during their minority. General rights operative in childhood include the \"right to security of the person\", \"to freedom from inhuman, cruel, or degrading treatment\", and the \"right to special protection during childhood\". Particular human rights of children include, among other rights, the \"right to life\", the \"right to a name\", the \"right to express his views in matters concerning the child\", the \"right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion\", the \"right to health care\", the \"right to protection from economic and sexual exploitation\", and the \"right to education\".\n\nChildren's rights are defined in numerous ways, including a wide spectrum of civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights. Rights tend to be of two general types: those advocating for children as autonomous persons under the law and those placing a claim on society for protection from harms perpetrated on children because of their dependency. These have been labeled as the \"right of empowerment\" and as the \"right to protection\".\n\nUnited Nations educational guides for children classify the rights outlined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child as the \"3 Ps\": Provision, Protection, and Participation. They may be elaborated as follows:\n\n\nIn a similar fashion, the Child Rights International Network (CRIN) categorizes rights into two groups:\n\nAmnesty International openly advocates four particular children's rights, including the end to juvenile incarceration without parole, an end to the recruitment of military use of children, ending the death penalty for people under 21, and raising awareness of human rights in the classroom. Human Rights Watch, an international advocacy organization, includes child labor, juvenile justice, orphans and abandoned children, refugees, street children and corporal punishment.\n\nScholarly study generally focuses children's rights by identifying individual rights. The following rights \"allow children to grow up healthy and free\":\n\nA report by the Committee on Social Affairs, Health, and Sustainable Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe identified several areas the Committee was concerned about, including procedures such as \"female genital mutilation, the circumcision of young boys for religious reasons, early childhood medical interventions in the case of intersex children and the submission to or coercion of children into piercings, tattoos or plastic surgery\". The Assembly adopted a non-binding resolution in 2013 that calls on its 47 member-states to take numerous actions to promote the physical integrity of children.\n\nArticle 19 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child enjoins parties to \"take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment or exploitation\". The Committee on the Rights of the Child interprets article 19 as prohibiting corporal punishment, commenting on the \"obligation of all States Party to move quickly to prohibit and eliminate all corporal punishment.\" The United Nations Human Rights Committee has also interpreted Article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights prohibiting \"cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment\" to extend to children, including corporal punishment of children.\n\nNewell (1993) argued that \"...pressure for protection of children's physical integrity should be an integral part of pressure for all children's rights.\"\n\nThe Committee on Bioethics of the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) (1997), citing the Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989), asserts that \"every child should have the opportunity to grow and develop free from preventable illness or injury.\"\n\nOther issues affecting children's rights include the military use of children, sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography.\n\n\"In the majority of jurisdictions, for instance, children are not allowed to vote, to marry, to buy alcohol, to have sex, or to engage in paid employment.\" Within the youth rights movement, it is believed that the key difference between \"children's\" rights and \"youth\" rights is that children's rights supporters generally advocate the establishment and enforcement of protection for children and youths, while youth rights (a far smaller movement) generally advocates the expansion of freedom for children and/or youths and of rights such as suffrage.\n\nParent are given sufficient powers to fulfill their duties to the child.\n\nParents affect the lives of children in a unique way, and as such their role in children's rights has to be distinguished in a particular way. Particular issues in the child-parent relationship include child neglect, child abuse, freedom of choice, corporal punishment and child custody. There have been theories offered that provide parents with rights-based practices that resolve the tension between \"commonsense parenting\" and children's rights. The issue is particularly relevant in legal proceedings that affect the potential emancipation of minors, and in cases where children sue their parents.\n\nA child's rights to a relationship with both their parents is increasingly recognized as an important factor for determining the best interests of the child in divorce and child custody proceedings. Some governments have enacted laws creating a rebuttable presumption that shared parenting is in the best interests of children.\n\nParents do not have absolute power over their children. Parents are subject to criminal laws against abandonment, abuse, and neglect of children. International human rights law provides that manifestation of one's religion may be limited in the interests of public safety, for the protection of public order, health or morals, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.\n\nCourts have placed other limits on parental powers and acts. The United States Supreme Court, in the case of \"Prince v. Massachusetts\", ruled that a parent's religion does not permit a child to be placed at risk. The Lords of Appeal in Ordinary ruled, in the case of \"Gillick v West Norfolk and Wisbech Area Health Authority and another\", that parental rights diminish with the increasing age and competency of the child, but do not vanish completely until the child reaches majority. Parental rights are derived from the parent's duties to the child. In the absence of duty, no parental right exists.\nThe Supreme Court of Canada ruled, in the case of \"E. (Mrs.) v. Eve\", that parents may not grant surrogate consent for non-therapeutic sterilization. The Supreme Court of Canada has ruled, in the case of \"B. (R.) v. Children's Aid Society of Metropolitan Toronto\":\n\n\"While children undeniably benefit from the Charter, most notably in its protection of their rights to life and to the security of their person, they are unable to assert these rights, and our society accordingly presumes that parents will exercise their freedom of choice in a manner that does not offend the rights of their children.\"\nAdler (2013) argues that parents are not empowered to grant surrogate consent for non-therapeutic circumcision of children.\n\nThe 1796 publication of Thomas Spence's \"Rights of Infants\" is among the earliest English-language assertions of the rights of children. Throughout the 20th century, children's rights activists organized for homeless children's rights and public education. The 1927 publication of \"The Child's Right to Respect\" by Janusz Korczak strengthened the literature surrounding the field, and today dozens of international organizations are working around the world to promote children's rights. In the UK the formation of a community of educationalists, teachers, youth justice workers, politicians and cultural contributors called the New Ideals in Education Conferences (1914–37) stood for the value of 'liberating the child' and helped to define the 'good' primary school in England until the 80s. Their conferences inspired the UNESCO organisation, the New Education Fellowship. \n\nA.S. Neill's 1915 book \"A Dominie's Log\" (1915), a diary of a headteacher changing his school to one based on the liberation and happiness of the child, can be seen as a cultural product that celebrates the heroes of this movement.\n\nThe opposition to children's rights long predates any current trend in society, with recorded statements against the rights of children dating to the 13th century and earlier. Opponents to children's rights believe that young people need to be protected from the adultcentric world, including the decisions and responsibilities of that world. In a dominantly adult society, childhood is idealized as a time of innocence, a time free of responsibility and conflict, and a time dominated by play. The majority of opposition stems from concerns related to national sovereignty, states' rights, the parent-child relationship. Financial constraints and the \"undercurrent of traditional values in opposition to children's rights\" are cited, as well. The concept of children's rights has received little attention in the United States.\n\nThe Universal Declaration of Human Rights is seen as a basis for all international legal standards for children's rights today. There are several conventions and laws that address children's rights around the world. A number of current and historical documents affect those rights, including the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, drafted by Eglantyne Jebb in 1923, endorsed by the League of Nations in 1924 and reaffirmed in 1934. A slightly expanded version was adopted by the United Nations in 1946, followed by a much expanded version adopted by the General Assembly in 1959. It later served as the basis for the Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nThe United Nations adopted the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) in 1966. The ICCPR is a multilateral international covenant that has been ratified or acceded to by nearly all nations on Earth. Nations which have become state-parties to the Covenant are required to honor and enforce the rights enunciated by the Covenant. The treaty came into effect on 23 March 1976. The rights codified by the ICCPR are universal, so they apply to everyone without exception and this includes children. Although children have all rights, some rights such as the right to marry and the right to vote come into effect only after the child reaches maturity.\n\nSome general rights applicable to children include:\n\n\nArticle 24 codifies the right of the child to special protection due to his minority, the right to a name, and the right to a nationality.\n\nThe United Nations' 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child, or CRC, is the first legally binding international instrument to incorporate the full range of human rights—civil, cultural, economic, political and social rights. Its implementation is monitored by the Committee on the Rights of the Child. National governments that ratify it commit themselves to protecting and ensuring children's rights, and agree to hold themselves accountable for this commitment before the international community. The CRC is the most widely ratified human rights treaty with 196 ratifications; the United States is the only country not to have ratified it.\n\nThe CRC is based on four core principles: the principle of non-discrimination; the best interests of the child; the right to life, survival and development; and considering the views of the child in decisions that affect them, according to their age and maturity. The CRC, along with international criminal accountability mechanisms such as the International Criminal Court, the Yugoslavia and Rwanda Tribunals, and the Special Court for Sierra Leone, is said to have significantly increased the profile of children's rights worldwide.\n\nThe Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action urges, at Section II para 47, all nations to undertake measures to the maximum extent of their available resources, with the support of international cooperation, to achieve the goals in the World Summit Plan of Action. And calls on States to integrate the Convention on the Rights of the Child into their national action plans. By means of these national action plans and through international efforts, particular priority should be placed on reducing infant and maternal mortality rates, reducing malnutrition and illiteracy rates and providing access to safe drinking water and basic education. Whenever so called for, national plans of action should be devised to combat devastating emergencies resulting from natural disasters and armed conflicts and the equally grave problem of children in extreme poverty. Further, para 48 urges all states, with the support of international cooperation, to address the acute problem of children under especially difficult circumstances. Exploitation and abuse of children should be actively combated, including by addressing their root causes. Effective measures are required against female infanticide, harmful child labour, sale of children and organs, child prostitution, child pornography, and other forms of sexual abuse. This influenced the adoptions of Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict and Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography.\n\nA variety of enforcement organizations and mechanisms exist to ensure children's rights. They include the Child Rights Caucus for the United Nations General Assembly Special Session on Children. It was set up to promote full implementation and compliance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and to ensure that child rights were given priority during the UN General Assembly Special Session on Children and its Preparatory process. The United Nations Human Rights Council was created \"with the hope that it could be more objective, credible and efficient in denouncing human rights violations worldwide than the highly politicized Commission on Human Rights.\" The NGO Group for the Convention on the Rights of the Child is a coalition of international non-governmental organisations originally formed in 1983 to facilitate the implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.\n\nMany countries around the world have children's rights ombudspeople or children's commissioners whose official, governmental duty is to represent the interests of the public by investigating and addressing complaints reported by individual citizens regarding children's rights. Children's ombudspeople can also work for a corporation, a newspaper, an NGO, or even for the general public.\n\nThe United States has signed but not ratified the CRC. As a result, children's rights have not been systematically implemented in the U.S.\n\nChildren are generally afforded the basic rights embodied by the Constitution, as enshrined by the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. The Equal Protection Clause of that amendment is to apply to children, born within a marriage or not, but excludes children not yet born. This was reinforced by the landmark US Supreme Court decision of \"In re Gault\" (1967). In this trial 15-year-old Gerald Gault of Arizona was taken into custody by local police after being accused of making an obscene telephone call. He was detained and committed to the Arizona State Industrial School until he reached the age of 21 for making an obscene phone call to an adult neighbor. In an 8–1 decision, the Court ruled that in hearings which could result in commitment to an institution, people under the age of 18 have the right to notice and counsel, to question witnesses, and to protection against self-incrimination. The Court found that the procedures used in Gault's hearing met none of these requirements.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court ruled in the case of \"Tinker v. Des Moines Independent Community School District\" (1969) that students in school have Constitutional rights.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court has ruled in the case of \"Roper v. Simmons\" that persons may not be executed for crimes committed when below the age of eighteen. It ruled that such executions are cruel and unusual punishment, so they are a violation of the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nThere are other concerns in the United States regarding children's rights. The American Academy of Adoption Attorneys is concerned with children's rights to a safe, supportive and stable family structure. Their position on children's rights in adoption cases states that, \"children have a constitutionally based liberty interest in the protection of their established families, rights which are at least equal to, and we believe outweigh, the rights of others who would claim a 'possessory' interest in these children.\" Other issues raised in American children's rights advocacy include children's rights to inheritance in same-sex marriages and particular rights for youth.\n\nA report filed by the President of the INGO Conference of the Council of Europe, Annelise Oeschger finds that children and their parents are subject to United Nations, European Union and UNICEF human rights violations. Of particular concern is the German (and Austrian) agency, Jugendamt (German: Youth office) that often unfairly allows for unchecked government control of the parent-child relationship, which have resulted in harm including torture, degrading, cruel treatment and has led to children's death. The problem is complicated by the nearly \"unlimited power\" of the Jugendamt officers, with no processes to review or resolve inappropriate or harmful treatment. By German law, Jugendamt officers are protected against prosecution. Jugendamt (JA) officers span of control is seen in cases that go to family court where experts testimony may be overturned by lesser educated or experienced JA officers; In more than 90% of the cases the JA officer's recommendation is accepted by family court. Officers have also disregarded family court decisions, such as when to return children to their parents, without repercussions. Germany has not recognized related child-welfare decisions made by the European Parliamentary Court that have sought to protect or resolve children and parental rights violations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33365479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33365479", "title": "CimTrak", "text": "CimTrak\n\nCimTrak is computer software for file integrity monitoring and regulatory compliance auditing. It assists in ensuring the availability and integrity of critical IT assets by detecting the root-cause and responding immediately to any unexpected changes to the host operating system, applications, and network devices located on the IT infrastructure. CimTrak works cross-platform and is supported on multiple Windows, Linux, Unix, and Macintosh operating systems. It is licensed as commercial software.\n\nCimTrak has multiple core components:\n\nCimTrak has many functions. It can detect additions, deletions and modifications to files and configurations on computer operating systems and components installed on the operating system. On initial configuration, it takes a \"snapshot\" of the files and configurations on the operating system, and uses this data to create a cryptographic hash of the files and configurations, and stores them securely in the CimTrak Master Repository as the known, good baseline.\n\nThe CimTrak Agents are installed on operating systems containing data that is configured for monitoring or, in the case of the Network Device Agent, installed on systems that have a TCP/IP network connection to supported network devices. The agent detects when changes are made to monitored files and configurations by communicating with the Kernel and comparing changes to the known cryptographic hash associated with affected files or configurations. If the calculated cryptographic hash is different then the known baseline, CimTrak will initiate the user-configured corrective action defined in the CimTrak Object Group Policy and will send internal and external event notifications using one or many of the following methods:\n\nCimTrak provides insight into the IT infrastructure by detecting changes that could compromise servers, networks, or sensitive customer data such as payment card information (Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI)). It can provide instant change remediation options without requiring the integration of external applications. When a change is detected, CimTrak captures the change at the exact moment it occurs and provides a detailed audit trail of the incident, including:\n\nCimTrak will report the automated response taken and, if configured, initiate remediation. Automated responses are termed \"Corrective Actions\", and include:\nCorrective actions can be defined based on each type of change action (file/configuration addition, file/configuration change, file/configuration deletion). In addition to the automated remediation functionality, CimTrak can automatically launch different custom scripts based on the detected change type.\n\nCimTrak File System Agents and Network Device Agents can perform change management functions by monitoring file and configurations based on the configured Object Group Watch Policies, which abilities vary by operating system.\n\n\n\nCimTrak Plug-ins enhance the abilities of CimTrak by adding additional monitoring functions, and will attach toFile System Agents, Network Device Agents, or both.\n\nPlug-ins include:\n\nCimTrak is constructed to follow software and communication security standards, and has government and IT security product certifications. Information stored within CimTrak is secure from external modification or access. Data at rest and data in transit are encrypted using the Cimcor Cryptographic Module, which has several certifications, including:\n\nThe Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) Publication 140-2, FIPS PUB 140-2, is a U.S. government computer security standard used to accredit cryptographic modules. Level 1 indicates that the cryptographic module supports the lowest level of acceptable security. Security Level 1 allows the cryptographic module to be executed using an unevaluated operating system. Security Level 2 enhances the physical security mechanisms of Security Level 1 by adding the requirement for tamper-evidence and protection. \n\nThe Common Criteria for Information Technology Security Evaluation (Common Criteria or CC) is an international standard (International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 15408) for computer security certification. Common Criteria allows specifying and verifying vendor claims relating to security functionality and assurance requirements. Verification of claims is performed using approved testing laboratories. The Evaluation Assurance Level of EAL4 permits the developer to gain maximum assurance from positive security engineering based on good commercial development practices which, though rigorous, do not require substantial specialist knowledge, skills, and other resources. EAL4 is the highest level at which it is likely to be economically feasible to retrofit to an existing product line. EAL4 is therefore applicable in those circumstances where developers or users require a moderate to high level of independently assured security in conventional commodity TOEs and are prepared to incur additional security-specific engineering costs. Augmented with ALC_FLR.2 establishes and verifies the claim that the developer has established flaw remediation procedures that describe the tracking of security flaws, the identification of corrective actions, and the distribution of corrective action information to TOE users.\n\nCimcor's flagship software CimTrak is the only File Integrity Monitoring tool on the Department of Defense Unified Capabilities Approved Products List. This unique factor allows CimTrak to be the only File Integrity Monitoring product available for use within the Department of Defense boundaries. \n\nProducts contained on the United States Army Approved products list have been deemed acceptable for use within the boundaries of the United States Army.\n\nThe CimTrak application can be used to facilitate the following compliance and security objectives:\n\nFor Microsoft Windows versions:\n\nFor Microsoft Windows versions:\n\n\n\nFor Microsoft Windows versions:\n\n\n\nFor Microsoft Windows versions:\n\n"}
{"id": "23973055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23973055", "title": "Collective ownership", "text": "Collective ownership\n\nCollective ownership is the ownership of means of production by all members of a group for the benefit of all its members. The breadth or narrowness of the group can range from a whole society to a set of coworkers in a particular enterprise (such as one collective farm). In the latter (narrower) sense the term is distinguished from common ownership and the commons, which implies open-access, the holding of assets in common, and the negation of ownership as such. \n\nCollective ownership of the means of production is the defining characteristic of socialism, where \"collective ownership\" can refer to society-wide ownership or to cooperative ownership by an organization's members. It more commonly refers to group ownership (such as a producer cooperative) as contrasted with public ownership.\n\n"}
{"id": "34792167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34792167", "title": "Coloured Persons Communal Reserves Act, 1961", "text": "Coloured Persons Communal Reserves Act, 1961\n\nThe Coloured Persons Communal Reserves Act of 1961 was an Apartheid South Africa piece of legislation, which was enacted to apply the Mission Stations and Communal Reserves Act 1909, of the Cape of Good Hope, to coloured persons settlement areas within the meaning of the Coloured Persons Settlement Areas (Cape) Act, 1930, to repeal the latter Act and to provide for matters incidental thereto.\n\nThis Act further strengthened racial segration legislation of South Africa during the Apartheid regime.\n\nThe Coloured Persons Communal Rerserves Act had the effect of lowering wages by denying Africans rights within urban areas and by keeping their families and dependants on subsistence plots in the reserves.\n\nThe act was repealed by the Abolition of Racially Based Land Measures Act, 1991 on 30 June 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35776826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35776826", "title": "Continuum (magazine)", "text": "Continuum (magazine)\n\nContinuum was a magazine published by an activist group of the same name who denied the existence of HIV/AIDS.\n\nFavoring pseudoscientific content, the magazine addressed issues related to HIV/AIDS, AIDS denialism, alternative medicine, and themes of interest to the LGBT community. It ran from December 1992 until February 2001, ceasing publication because all of the contributors had died of AIDS-defining clinical conditions.\n\n\"Continuum\" was created in December 1992 by Jody Wells (March 12, 1947 – August 26, 1995) in London, United Kingdom. It ceased publication in 2001, after all the editors died from AIDS-defining clinical conditions, leaving debts of over £14,000. The magazine last appeared in print in 1998 and then surfaced again in February 2001 on the Internet. It was initially published bimonthly, then began to be published seasonally.\n\nAccording to the magazine:\n\"Continuum\" promoted the idea that AIDS was a conspiracy and was not related to HIV. Wells believed that the fear of AIDS was based on homophobia, not science.\n\n\"Continuum\" claimed to be a scientific journal for those who had alternative theories about HIV/AIDS, even though it had no peer review and promoted and advertised alternative therapies such as urinotherapy. AIDS denialists often cite the articles published in this journal as a source of scientific information.\nIn the January/February 1996 edition, the magazine began offering £1,000 to the first person who could find a scientific study that showed the isolation of HIV, even though it had been isolated in 1983 by Luc Montagnier and Françoise Barré-Sinoussi (for which they obtained a Nobel Prize), and then was confirmed by Robert Gallo in 1984, demonstrating that a retrovirus they had isolated, called HTLV-III in the belief that the virus was related to the leukemia viruses of Gallo's earlier work, was the cause of AIDS.\nPeter Duesberg tried to claim the prize and wrote an article for the magazine in its July/August 1996 issue, but the award was rejected because it had to meet certain conditions.\n\nImmunity Resource Foundation hosts the complete library of \"Continuum\" magazine among an internet database of 120,000 similar documents .\n\nJody Wells, founder and chief editor, died on August 26, 1995 at 48 by \"Pneumocystis\" pneumonia, an AIDS defining clinical condition.\n\nHuw Christie Williams was the chief editor after the death of Jody Wells until shortly before his death on August 17, 2001, at 41 by Kaposi's sarcoma, an AIDS defining clinical condition.\n\nMichael Baumgartner was the acting editor on the last edition of the magazine. He served as editor only this time at the request of Huw Christie Williams before his death, for a final publication before the final closing of the magazine.\n\n\" People who at least once have been mentioned as working in the magazine. In order of appearance in the publications.\"\n\n\"People appearing explicitly as consultants in the magazine.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "14631817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14631817", "title": "Criticism of the National Health Service (England)", "text": "Criticism of the National Health Service (England)\n\nCriticism of the National Health Service (England) includes issues such as access, waiting lists, healthcare coverage, and various scandals. The National Health Service (NHS) is the publicly funded health care system of England, created under the National Health Service Act 1946 by the post-war Labour government of Clement Attlee. It has come under much criticism, especially during the early 2000s, due to outbreaks of antibiotic-resistant infections such as MRSA and Clostridium difficile, waiting lists, and medical scandals such as the Alder Hey organs scandal. However, the involvement of the NHS in scandals extends back many years, including over the provision of mental health care in the 1970s and 1980s (ultimately part of the reason for the Mental Health Act 1983), and overspends on hospital newbuilds, including Guy's Hospital Phase III in London in 1985, the cost of which shot up from £29 million to £152 million.\n\nIn making health care a largely \"invisible cost\" to the patient, health care seems to be effectively free to its consumers - there is no specific NHS tax or levy. To reduce cost and ensure that everyone is treated equitably there are a variety of \"gatekeepers.\" The GP functions as a primary gatekeeper - without referral from a GP, it is often impossible to gain higher courses of treatment, such as an appointment with a consultant. These are argued to be necessary - Welshman Bevan noted in a 1948 speech in the House of Commons, \"we shall never have all we need... expectations will always exceed capacity\". On the other hand, the national health insurance systems in other countries (e.g. Germany) have dispensed with the need for referral; direct access to a specialist is possible there.\n\nThere has been concern about opportunistic \"health tourists\" travelling to Britain (mostly London) and using the NHS while paying nothing. British citizens have been known to travel to other European countries to take advantage of lower costs, and because of a fear of hospital-acquired superbugs and long waiting lists.\n\nNHS access is therefore controlled by medical priority rather than price mechanism, leading to waiting lists for both consultations and surgery, up to months long, although the Labour government of 1997-onwards made it one of its key targets to reduce waiting lists. In 1997, the waiting time for a non-urgent operation could be two years, there were ambitions to reduce it to 18 weeks despite opposition from doctors. It is contested that this system is fairer - if a medical complaint is acute and life-threatening, a patient will reach the front of the queue quickly.\n\nThe NHS measures medical need in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), a method of quantifying the benefit of medical intervention. It is argued that this method of allocating healthcare means some patients must lose out in order for others to gain, and that QALY is a crude method of making life and death decisions.\n\nThere have been several fatal outbreaks of antibiotic resistant bacteria (\"superbugs\") in NHS hospitals, such as Methicillin-resistant \"Staphylococcus aureus\" (MRSA) Vancomycin Resistant \"Enterococci\" (V.R.E.) and \"Clostridium difficile\". This has led to criticism of standards of hygiene across the NHS, with some patients buying private health insurance or travelling abroad to avoid the perceived threat of catching a \"superbug\" while in hospital. However, the department of health has pledged £60 million for a \"deep clean\" of all NHS England hospitals.\n\nThe lack of availability of some treatments due to their perceived poor cost-effectiveness sometimes leads to what some call a \"postcode lottery\".\n\nThere has been considerable controversy about the public health funding of expensive drugs, notably Herceptin, due to its high cost and perceived limited overall survival. The campaign waged by cancer victims to get the government to pay for their treatment has gone to the highest levels in the courts and the Cabinet to get it licensed. The House of Commons Health Select Committee criticised some drug companies for bringing in drugs that cost on and around the £30,000 limit that is considered the maximum worth of one QALY in the NHS.\n\nBefore the idea of PFI came to prominence, all new hospital building was by convention funded from the Treasury, as it was believed it was best able to raise money and able to control public sector expenditure. In June 1994, the Capital Investment Manual (CIM) was published, setting out the terms of PFI contracts. The CIM made it clear that future capital projects (building of new facilities) had to look at whether PFI was preferable to using public sector funding. By the end of 1995, 60 relatively small projects had been planned for, at a total cost of around £2 billion. Under PFI, buildings were built and serviced by the private sector, and then leased back to the NHS. The Labour government elected under Tony Blair in 1997 embraced PFI projects, recognising that public spending needed to be curtailed.\n\nUnder the Private Finance Initiative, an increasing number of hospitals have been built (or rebuilt) by private sector consortia, although the government also encouraged private sector treatment centres, so called \"surgicentres\". There has been significant criticism of this, with a study by a consultancy company which works for the Department of Health showing that for every £200 million spent on privately financed hospitals the NHS loses 1000 doctors and nurses. The first PFI hospitals contain some 28% fewer beds than the ones they replaced. As well as this, it has been noted that the return for construction companies on PFI contracts could be as high as 58%, and that in funding hospitals from the private rather than public sector cost the NHS almost half a billion pounds more every year.\n\nSeveral high-profile medical scandals have occurred within the NHS over the years such as the Alder Hey organs scandal and the Bristol heart scandal. At Alder Hey, there was the unauthorised removal, retention, and disposal of human tissue, including children’s organs, between 1988 and 1995. The official report into the incident, the Redfern Report, revealed that Dick van Velzen, the Chair of Foetal and Infant Pathology at Alder Hey had ordered the \"unethical and illegal stripping of every organ from every child who had had a postmortem.\" In response, it has been argued that the scandal brought the issue of organ and tissue donation into the public domain, and highlighted the benefits to medical research that result.\n\nThe Stafford Hospital scandal in Stafford, England in the late 2000s concerned abnormally high mortality rates amongst patients at the hospital. Up to 1200 more patients died between 2005 and 2008 than would be expected for the type and size of hospital based on figures from a mortality model, but the final Healthcare Commission report concluded it would be misleading to link the inadequate care to a specific number or range of numbers of deaths. A public inquiry later revealed multiple instances of neglect, incompetence and abuse of patients.\n\nThose who can afford it sometimes opt for private healthcare, usually to get treated more quickly in private facilities (i.e. facilities not provided by, or using, NHS staff or services). When this occurs, these patients are opting to pay twice for their health care, once for the NHS through taxes, and again for the private care they are using. Critics argue that these people do use NHS services, such as their General Practitioner, screening, and vaccination services, and that their opting out from time-to-time is effectively queue jumping because they are utilising a resource ahead of someone in greater need and that their double payment is the penalty for queue jumping. It is argued that it is a civic responsibility for every citizen capable of paying legally applicable levels of tax, to do so, regardless of service use. Therefore, the public services can be subsidised for those who wish to use them - economically, the more people who pay taxes, the less cost to each individual concerned.\n\nUnlike in Scotland and Wales which have devolved healthcare, NHS England is run on behalf of the taxpayer by the UK Parliament and the Department of Health, at the head of which is the Secretary of State for Health.\n\nThe group charged in England and Wales with checking if the care delivered by the NHS is genuinely safe and fit for purpose is the Care Quality Commission, or CQC. Although the CQC describes itself as the \"independent regulator of all health and social care services in England\", it is in fact \"accountable to the public, Parliament and the Secretary of State for Health.\" and much of its funding comes from the taxpayer. At least one chairman , one chief executive and a board member of the CQC have been singled out for attention by a UK Secretary of State for Health.\n\nThere is therefore the potential for a conflict of interest, as both the NHS and the CQC have the same leadership and both are highly susceptible to political interference.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22638880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22638880", "title": "Dang Guo", "text": "Dang Guo\n\nParty-State, or Dang Guo (), is a version of the one-party state ideology that was formerly the official policy of the Republic of China under Kuomintang.\n\nSince 1924, after Sun Yat-sen decided to copy the Soviet Union political system, Chiang Kai-shek used the Kuomintang to control and operate the Republic of China government and the Nationalist Revolutionary Army. All of the major national policies of the ROC bureaucracy were formulated by the Kuomintang party, resulting in the party holding the supreme power of the whole nation. In his belief, the rules of the state should be returned to the people after the Kuomintang Army militarily ended the Warlord Era.\n\n\"Dang Guo\" was short for \"Yi Dang Zhi Guo\" (以黨治國), which literally means using the political party to run the state. Sun Yat-sen, the Founding Father of the Republic of China, made \"Dang Guo\" the official ROC national policy in 1920, having been influenced by Leninist ideology which led to the Russian Revolution. According to Sun Yat-sen, Kuomintang should be paramount over the Republic of China in the course of revolution (war against the warlords), and Kuomintang should issue orders to the ROC bureaucracy, all the NGO groups, and indeed to any individual.\n\nIn 1924 Sun Yat-sen said：\n\nAfter Sun Yat-sen decided to follow and copy the Soviet Union political system, his successor Chiang Kai-shek used Kuomintang to control and to operate both the Republic of China government and the Nationalist Revolutionary Army, which was sometimes called \"The Party's Army\" (黨軍), and equivalent to Mao Zedong's famous quote \"Political power grows out of the barrel of a gun\". The ROC bureaucracy had then become the means and tools of Kuomintang, where all the major national policies were formulated, resulting in the party holding the supreme power of the whole nation.\n\nThe concept of \"Dang Guo\" was an outgrowth of Sun's concept of \"political tutelage,\" during which the Kuomintang was to lead the state and instruct the people on how the democratic system was to work prior to the transition to full democracy.\n\nUnder \"Dang Guo\", ROC military personnel and civil servants alike were expected to owe their allegiance to Kuomintang first and the State second - a policy reflected by such phrases as \"Service to the Party and the Nation\" (功在黨國), and also on the national anthem, which makes an explicit reference to \"Our Party\". Likewise, the emblem of Kuomintang was used as the emblem of the State, and the flag of Kuomintang has been used as the naval jack to this day.\n\nThe Kuomintang unified China in 1927, and started to prepare the state for democracy, as according to Sun's teaching. The Constitution of the Republic of China enacted in 1947 stipulates that different parties shall enjoy equal status, and the National Revolutionary Army was returned to civilian control as the Army of the Republic of China. However, due to the outbreak of the Chinese Civil War, the ROC was under military rule of the KMT during the period of mobilization. In the 1990s, when the martial law ended, all political parties became legal and the Republic of China was democratized. Since then, the President of the Republic of China has been democratically elected by the people of the Free Area. Chen Shui-bian of the Democratic Progressive Party was elected president, making him the first non-KMT president under the Constitution.\n\nPeking University professor Pan Wei () had stated that the political structure of People's Republic of China is supported by the Chinese Communist Party in six major ways:\n\nProfessor Pan Wei went on to state that the China's supreme control power is rest on Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party of China.\n\nIn 1938, Mao Zedong stated: \"The fundamental principle is, the Communist Party is in command of the Army, not the other way around\". \n\nOn 1 April 2009 Gen. Li Jinai, the People's Liberation Army's top political commissar who sits on the 11-member Chinese Communist Party Central Committee that exercises direct control over China, had stated that China's military \"must continue taking orders exclusively from the Communist Party\" in an essay published in the party's official theoretical journal, Qiushi.\n\nThe essay further stated:\"\n\n"}
{"id": "36937996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36937996", "title": "Demetri Marchessini", "text": "Demetri Marchessini\n\nDemetri P. Marchessini (20 July 1934 – 6 March 2016) was a Greek businessman. He was among the largest donors to the UK Independence Party and gave £15,000 to the party during 2013. He died on 6 March 2016.\n\nBorn in Athens, he was educated at Williams College, Massachusetts, and at Harvard Law School, Harvard. He married Lucinda in 1961. They lived first in New York, and then in London with their four daughters, Lucinda, Cassandra, Atalanta and Tatiana.\n\nHe lived in Wilton Crescent, Belgravia, London SW1X. \n\nMarchessini has published polemical works. \"Modern Myths: And The Realities Behind Them\" (1997) arguing against certain political correct opinions. \"Women In Trousers\" was a photo-essay on women's fashion which aroused much controversy when it was published, and received critical coverage in several newspapers. Liz Hoggard in \"The Observer\" describing it as \"offensive, outdated, misogynistic claptrap.\" He wrote: \"Women know that men don't like trousers, yet they deliberately wear them\". According to him: \"This is hostile behaviour - they are deliberately dressing in a way that is opposite to what men would like. It is behaviour that flies against common sense, and also flies against the normal human desire to please.\"\n\nA later book, \"Scams & Hypocrisies\" looked at perceived popular myths. On his blog, Marchessini has written that unmarried mothers are \"naughty girls\" who deserve a \"smack\" and that date rape accusations can only be meaningless because without a \"violent act it is difficult to know whether any rape took place\".\n\nOn 28 January 2014, \"The Daily Telegraph\" published an advertisement by Marchessini, in effect a comment piece which took the form of an 'open letter to Libby Purves'. in which he criticised the 'pro-gay' opinions of \"The Times\" columnist and dismissed her opposition to the government policies of Russia's Vladimir Putin on this issue which she had expressed in an article on 20 January. Responding, Purves was quoted in the \"London Evening Standard\": \"He is free to approve of the beatings and hangings of young men across the world in the name of what he considers religion. In the same spirit, I am free to say he is a loony.\"\n\nIn 2013, Marchessini made donations totalling £10,000 money to the UK Independence Party, ultimately the sixth largest donor to the party that year. Following criticism of his views in 2013, he stated he will no longer give money to UKIP: \"There's been such a fuss about what I've given it's a bore.\" At the time of the Telegraph advertisement, a UKIP spokeswoman said that Marchessini had severed his connection with the party after the organisation had \"publicly opposed the crazy female trouser-wearing comments.\"\n\nIn the run-up to the 2014 European Parliament election, Michael Crick of Channel 4 News interviewed Marchessini, in what Crick believed was the businessman's first ever television interview. Contrary to earlier reports, UKIP had continued to solicit donations from him, and a further donation of £5,000 (in addition to the previously admitted £10,000) had been made on 24 December 2013.\n\nIn the interview, Marchessini also asserted that homosexuals are motivated by lust rather than love, said that rape was impossible within a marriage, and reasserted his opinions about women wearing trousers. According to him, only skirts excite men and he advocates a ban on the practice of women wearing trousers:\n\n"}
{"id": "36688732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36688732", "title": "Domain Awareness System", "text": "Domain Awareness System\n\nThe Domain Awareness System is a surveillance system developed as part of Lower Manhattan Security Initiative in a partnership between the New York Police Department and Microsoft to monitor New York City. This allows them to track surveillance targets and gain detailed information about them. The system is connected to 6,000 video cameras around New York City.\n\nThe system will be licensed out to other cities with New York City getting 30% of the profits. The system's development costs are estimated at 40 million USD.\n\nTechnology built specifically for the NYPD includes radiological and nuclear detectors on boats, radiation detectors on helicopters and trucks, and detectors on police officers' gun belts so sensitive that people who have had medical procedures may trigger them. And Lower Manhattan now includes thousands of surveillance cameras that can identify shapes and sizes of unidentified \"suspicious\" packages and can track people within seconds using descriptions such as \"someone wearing a red shirt\".\n\nThis system is highlighted in a May 2013 episode of PBS' \"Nova\" on tracking the Boston Marathon bombers Tamerlan and Dzhokhar Tsarnaev.\n\n"}
{"id": "3502898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3502898", "title": "Federal Register of Legislation", "text": "Federal Register of Legislation\n\nThe Federal Register of Legislation (formerly ComLaw), also known as the Legislation Register, is an Australian government web site run by the Office of Parliamentary Counsel since October 2012 that provides online copies of Commonwealth legislation and related documents. The website was redesigned and re-released early in 2011. ComLaw links redirect to the Federal Register of Legislation site.\n\n"}
{"id": "20333171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20333171", "title": "Future of Privacy Forum", "text": "Future of Privacy Forum\n\nThe Future of Privacy Forum is a Washington DC based think tank and advocacy group focused on issues of data privacy. It is jointly supported by corporate sponsors and foundations. Corporate members include AT&T, Comcast, Facebook, Google, Intelius and Microsoft, while foundation supporters include the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, National Science Foundation, and Digital Trust Foundation. The organization is run by Jules Polonetsky, the former chief privacy officer for AOL and Doubleclick. The founder and co-chair is Christopher Wolf, a lawyer who leads the privacy group at the law firm of Hogan Lovells. In 2015, the Future of Privacy Forum announced Washington and Lee University School of Law as its academic partner.\n\nPolonetsky is also on the advisory board of the Center for Copyright Information, the industry-run organization in charge of the \"6 strikes\" graduated response system for copyright infringement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2899610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2899610", "title": "Green lending", "text": "Green lending\n\nGreen lending refers to a lending dependent on environmental criteria for the planned use of funds. It is part of the wider sustainable investing and aims to reduce the impact on the environment of new lending activities.\n\nStarting in 2005 major US banks such as Wells Fargo (July 2005, $1bn over 5 years) and Bank of America (March 2007, $20 bn) started dedicating financing toward sustainable entrepreneurship. This usually meant financing the building of environmentally sustainable or friendly buildings or enterprises. The green lending initiative appear to have been taken by the lenders as opposed to borrowers.\n\nIn 2018 the Loan Market Association in the UK issued Green Loan Principles to ensure any green loan is used for eligible green projects. This includes stating that this must be clearly articulated in the finance documents along with the expected environmental benefits, which must be assessed, quantified, measured and reported by the borrower. The list of projects that qualify as green is based on the list that the International Capital Market Association uses to define Green Bonds.\n\nIn April 2017, ING Group issued the world’s first sustainability-linked loan to Philips, coupling the interest rate of the EUR 1 billion loan to the company’s sustainability performance. By June 2018, Bloomberg News reported that ING Group had closed 15 similar deals where the bank would lower the cost of borrowing by between 5% and 10% based on the company’s ESG rating provided by Sustainalytics. As shown on Environmental Finance's list of sustainability loans, several other banks have teamed up with various ESG ratings agencies, copying and building on the ING-Sustainalytics model:\nIn September 2018, 5 banks, including BBVA, structured a revolving credit facility (RCF) for the Italian power utility A2A in a finance deal valued at €400 million euros. The syndicated loan avails itself of a margin mechanism based on two parameters: the performance of two selected KPIs (waste processing capacity and the volume of renewable energy sold in the wholesale market, emphasizing the focus of the A2A Group on the circular economy and decarbonation). The solicited ESG Rating is provided annually by Standard Ethics Aei.<ref>\n"}
{"id": "4048845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4048845", "title": "History of the Socialist Workers Party (Britain)", "text": "History of the Socialist Workers Party (Britain)\n\nThe History of the Socialist Workers Party begins with the formation of the Socialist Review Group in 1950, followed by the creation of the International Socialists in 1962 and continues through to the present day with the formation of the Socialist Workers Party in 1977.\n\nThe SWP's origins lie in the Revolutionary Communist Party (RCP), which Tony Cliff joined on his arrival from the territory of Palestine where he had been the central leader of that region's small section of the Fourth International (FI). Given his international reputation, Cliff was co-opted onto the leadership body of the RCP although his impact was small at the time given his limited command of English. Indeed, his idiosyncratic use of the English language was to be a subject of jest by both Cliff and his supporters in later years.\n\nIn the RCP, Cliff was a supporter of the majority tendency of that party around Jock Haston and Ted Grant. Therefore, he supported the perspectives of the RCP at the end of the Second World War which placed the small party in opposition to the new leadership of the Fourth International around Ernest Mandel, then known as Germain, and Michel Raptis, better known as Pablo, which was backed by the American Socialist Workers' Party. In this capacity he wrote \"All That Glitters is not Gold\" in which he discussed his view that, contrary to the opinion of the International Secretariat of the Fourth International, there was not going to be a major slump.\n\nCliff also backed Haston when he disputed the growing sympathies of the FI for Josip Broz Tito's Yugoslavia, but by this time Haston was growing demoralised and would soon drop out of revolutionary politics entirely. Cliff however was beginning to develop the idea that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was a bureaucratic state capitalist society, prompted in part by earlier arguments pointing in this direction from Haston. Much later Cliff in his autobiography would acknowledge the debt he felt to Haston. There is an irony in this as it has been suggested that Cliff had been briefed by the leadership of the FI, while passing through France, to oppose Haston on just this question, although no proof of this has been made public.\n\nMore importantly at the time, Haston's collapse and the hostility of the FI to the RCP meant that the party was forced to join the Labour Party. Once inside the Labour Party, its members were instructed to work under the direction of Gerry Healy in his entrist group The Club. This led to many former members of the RCP leaving politics in reaction to Healy's brutal regime and in turn Healy embarked on a campaign of expulsions against anyone who opposed his authority. One consequence of this was that a number of comrades who supported Cliff's state capitalist position began to act as a faction. Cliff himself was unable to participate in this work having been deported to Dublin from which he was not to return permanently until 1952.\n\nWith the Korean War, passions in The Club became more aroused and after a vote on Birmingham Trades Council in which Cliff's supporters, including Percy Downey, voted for a neutral, third campist, position they were expelled \"en masse\" from The Club. Cliff himself, being a member of the almost non-existent Irish section of the FI, could not be expelled. The final result of these events was the foundation of the Socialist Review Group organised around the magazine of the same name.\n\nThe Socialist Review Group (SRG) was founded at the end of September 1950 at a conference in Camden Town in London. 33 members were claimed of whom 21 were present on the day. Apart from Tony Cliff, among the more notable members can be listed Bill Ainsworth, Geoff Carlsson, Raymond Challinor, Percy Downey, Duncan Hallas, Peter Morgan, Anil Moonesinghe, Jean Tait and Ken Tarbuck. It was, in essence, a fragment of the RCP of which party all its members had been adherents. It was in the milieu of former members of the RCP that the new SRG saw its audience too.\n\nThe new group adopted the magazine \"Socialist Review\" as its central organ and it was to run from 1950 to 1962. Asserting their political continuity with Trotskyism they argued that they stood on the ideas of Leon Trotsky and Bolshevik Leninism except insofar as they differed as to their analysis of the states dominated by Stalinist parties. To this end they adopted three documents summarising their viewpoint; \"The Nature of Stalin's Russia\" (the first edition of Cliff's \"State Capitalism in Russia\"), \"The Class Nature of the People's Democracies\" and \"Marxism and the Theory of Bureaucratic Collectivism\". In closing their first conference the group sent greetings to Natalya Sedova Trotsky, the widow of Leon Trotsky, who like them held state capitalist convictions.\n\nIn regard to its international connections the new group contacted various dissident currents coming out of the Fourth International (which split in 1953) among whom can be enumerated Raya Dunayevskaya in the USA, Chaulieu in France, Mangano in Italy and Jungclas in Germany. The named individuals and their tendencies came from both the right and left of the Fourth International and unsurprisingly nothing came of these contacts. Of more importance was a loose liaison with the International Socialist League in the USA and the journal of that group, \"New International\", was distributed by the SRG until it ceased publication in 1958. Moreover, \"Socialist Review\" would reprint material from its pages, for example from Chinese and Ukrainian revolutionaries, and Cliff would contribute to \"New International\" in his turn.\n\nEarly editions of \"Socialist Review\" closely mirror the concerns of the SRG in its first years as they sought to recruit from former RCPers and in the Labour Party. A great deal of the material in the magazine concerns Stalinism and world politics in general terms. One particular example would be the attempt to provide the Socialist fellowship, a grouping of left wing Labour Party members strongly influenced by Gerry Healy's Club, with an alternative statement of policy. This may be taken as a first general statement of programme by the SRG given its all encompassing nature and, apart from its position on Stalinism, is informed by a conception of transitional politics that is characteristic of Trotskyism. Meanwhile, entrist work in the Birmingham Labour Party led to the expulsion of SRG members from the Labour Party.\n\nThe SRG also had its internal controversies of which the first was the expulsion of Ellis Hillman, later a London councillor, who argued that the Stalinist parties were embryonic state capitalist societies. In this he was echoing the positions of the Johnson-Forrest tendency, C. L. R. James and Raya Dunayevskaya, and directly challenging Cliff's analysis of state capitalism. He also argued, in a spectacularly eclectic fashion, for what he called the organic unity of the SRG and Ted Grant's group of fellow ex-RCPers. He was replied to with regard to the Stalinist parties by Duncan Hallas whose article was later reprinted in the collection \"The Origins of the International Socialists\". In the event he was expelled and the group's politics as a Trotskyist tendency differing only in its analysis of Stalinism was confirmed.\n\nAlthough it began by asserting its fidelity to Trotskyism the SRG would move way from the 'orthodox' Trotskyism which they took from their origins in the RCP. Prior to this development, but setting the scene for it, the group experienced something of a change over of leading figures from 1952 to 1954. Most importantly of all Tony Cliff was permitted to return to London from his exile in Dublin and for the first itime was able to function as an active leader of the group rather than through others or during visits to his family. Cliff's centrality to the group cannot be overemphasized in these years as his wife, Chanie Rosenberg, was also an active member and in September 1952 Michael Kidron, Cliff's brother-in-law, travelled to Britain from Israel. Kidron would later recruit Seymour Papert, later to become an important pioneer in the field of computers, who would also play a considerable role in the SRG. Others joining at this time were Stan Newens, later a Labour MP, and Bernard Dix, later prominent in the National Union of Public Employees (NUPE). Significantly, as the group was renewed by such new recruits it lost some of its earlier character as figures like Bill Ainsworth, Ken Tarbuck, later to pass through a number of left groups, and Duncan Hallas left, while Anil Moonesinghe and his wife Jeanne Hoban left for Ceylon where the former would eventually become a Minister. Duncan Hallas alone would return 14 years later and again play a leading role in what was by then the International Socialists.\n\nIn 1962 the Socialist Review Group became the International Socialists (IS) taking the name of their new journal \"International Socialism\". The journal had briefly appeared in 1958 as a cyclostyled magazine and a second issue, publishing Cliff's essay on Rosa Luxemburg had appeared in 1959, but began regular publication in 1960. The group also began publishing a paper called \"Industrial Worker\" in 1961 which was renamed \"Labour Worker\" in 1962. This was replaced by \"Socialist Worker\", launched in 1968, with Roger Protz being the first editor.\n\nHowever, for much of the 1960s the most important group publication was \"Young Guard\". Working within the Young Socialists the IS had issued a youth magazine called \"Rebel\" from 1960 onwards as the YS was, along with similarly youth oriented Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, the greatest source of recruits to IS. Within the highly factionalised atmosphere of the YS, however, \"Rebel\" soon disappeared as the IS forged an alliance with the supporters of Ted Grant around the \"Rally\" paper. The two tendencies jointly launched \"Young Guard\" as their challenge to both Transport House and the Keep Left grouping of Gerry Healy's supporters. The editorial content and most contributors to \"Young Guard\" were firmly in support of IS, with Grant's supporters playing a minor role. After Healy's followers in the Socialist Labour League left what was renamed the Labour Party Young Socialists, IS was briefly able to take the leadership of that organisation. But by this point much of the life had gone out of the youth movement and \"Young Guard\" ceased publication in 1965, being superseded by a new run of \"Rebel\" which lasted in its turn until 1967. By this time though, IS as a whole was drifting away from entrist work within the Labour Party as the industrial struggle developed.\n\nIn 1968, the IS put out an appeal for revolutionary unity, aiming the appeal at the industrial militants aligned with the Communist Party, although it was also directed at the newly formed International Marxist Group (IMG) and the libertarian Solidarity group. In the event only the small Workers' Fight group responded favourably and as soon as they became members of the IS they constituted themselves as the Trotskyist Tendency (TT) faction. The TT was expelled from IS after it attempted to galvanise opposition to the group's leadership on political issues including Ireland and the European Union and on the question of internal democracy. At the conference at which what the leadership called \"defusion\" took place, 40% of the delegates voted against. Now substantially larger than when it had entered IS, the TT reconstituted itself as Workers' Fight, and still exists today in the form of the Alliance for Workers' Liberty.\n\nDespite such internal controversies the IS grew in the early 1970s gaining a foothold in industry and forming several rank and file groups in the unions. However internal debate did not cease with the departure of the TT and in 1973 there were several expulsions of smaller groups, including those of the Right Opposition, part of which became the Revolutionary Communist Group.\n\nIn 1974 the Left Faction, one of whose leaders was Dave Stocking, was also expelled and formed Workers Power. It had argued that the IS should write a transitional programme which would form the basis for demands made by the group and allow the membership to keep the leadership to account, preventing 'turns' by voting on exact positions in this document. They also argued that the SWP had become opportunist on the Irish Question after it had stopped giving the Provisional Irish Republican Army (IRA) unconditional but critical support because the IRA's strategy had changed and had turned public opinion solidly against it - the Left Faction argued unconditional but critical support was still needed.\n\nDuring the 1960s the rise of unofficial strike action led the International Socialists to place emphasis on the building of a rank and file movement within the trade unions in order to combat the bureaucratic leaders of those organisations. This led to the development of a series of rank and file papers including \"The Collier\" (Mining), \"Redder Tape \"(Civil Service), \"Rank and File Teacher\", etc. These were briefly brought together in a National Rank and File Organising Committee in 1974, the peak of IS influence in the workers' movement.\n\nAnother aspect of this work was that a number of historians in the IS devoted themselves to rediscovering the past of rank and file movements in the labour movement. A series of articles by Jim Higgins on this topic was published in the group's journal \"International Socialism\". Other related work appeared in book or pamphlet form including books on the Communist Party related Minority Movement of the 1920s and the industrial politics of the CPGB in that period. Work was also done on the pre-World War I period with Raymond Challinor's book on the Socialist Labour Party entitled \"The Origins of British Bolshevism\".\n\nIn the mid-1970s Cliff argued that the older workers' leaders, including shop stewards, were corrupted by reformism and therefore IS had to turn to untried young workers - the more cynically minded claimed Cliff wanted the party to turn to them as being more gullible to Cliff's more idiosyncratic flights of fancy. This was part of the reason for the attempt made at this time to popularise \"Socialist Worker\". This turn was unanimously rejected months later, but by then Jim Higgins was removed as National Secretary and Roger Protz from his position as editor of \"Socialist Worker\" for opposing these changes. Prompted by Duncan Hallas, they formed an \"International Socialist Opposition\". Ultimately, a large section of the leadership, in particular Jim Higgins, Roger Protz and John Palmer, were expelled or left in solidarity with those expelled in 1975 and formed the Workers League. It has been estimated that no more than 150 members of IS - some having been expelled - joined the Workers' League but that several hundred more left as a result of the factional struggle.\n\nThe factional dispute consumed a great deal of the energies of IS through the course of 1976 but, nonetheless, a great deal of work was still accomplished especially with the launch by the Rank and File Co-ordinating Committee of the Right to Work Campaign which sought to address the then growing problem of mass unemployment. This attempt to bring the problem of mass unemployment culminated in a 'Jarrow syle' Right to Work March from Liverpool through England to London, where it was broken up by violent attacks from the infamous, and later disbanded, Special Patrol Group. Another notable change was the move of IS towards electoral participation for the first time under its own banner - in earlier days some members had come near to being adopted as Prospective Parliamentary Candidates by the Labour Party and at least two members had served terms as councillors - although whilst initial results were encouraging the tactic was later abandoned due to poor results. The intention had been for the IS, renamed in 1977 the Socialist Workers' Party, to stand a slate of at least 50 candidates in the then upcoming General Election. This ambitious goal was now abandoned.\n\nAt the beginning of 1977 the Socialist Workers' Party was launched as the IS renamed itself in expectation of a wave of working class struggles against the Labour Government of the day. Immediately this move was rejected by Peter Sedgwick, a long time and much respected member who resigned in protest. Expecting an increase in struggle but with industrial unrest stalled the new SWP used its leadership of the National Rank and File Organising Committee to launch the Right to Work Campaign in protest at the rising level of unemployment. The RTWC was to lead large scale marches, first to the Trades Union Congress annual conference urging it to campaign on the issue, later in protest to the Conservative Party conference, from 1976 to 1981. In the localities however the RTWC had no ongoing existence other than as a front organisation for local SWP branches. In the meantime the parent National Rank and File Organising Committee disappeared.\n\nDuring these years at times heated debates took place in branch meetings and in the pages of the, then regular, Internal Bulletin concerning a number of questions. For example, during this period a debate emerged as to the group's understanding of the question of women's oppression in capitalist society and whether or not feminism was to be seen in a positive light. This debate centred on the role to be played by the group's publication \"Woman's Voice\". Eventually the conclusion was reached that feminism, as an ideology, could not liberate women from their situation as a social group oppressed by and in class society. By the time this position had been reached, however, opponents of the majority view had left the group and the magazine was discontinued as its sought-for audience had disappeared.\n\nRunning alongside the debate on the future of \"Woman's Voice\" there was a discussion concerning SWP work among, and the attitude of the group toward, Blacks and Asians. From the early 1960s the IS had made clear its opposition to any immigration controls, work in which Paul Foot had played a prominent role. Another attempt to reach Asian workers had been initiated by Nigel Harris but had faded quite rapidly. There was then a considerable debate within the SWP around the role of the newly launched \"Flame - Black Workers' Paper For Self Defence\" when it appeared in the late 1970s. Edited by Anthony Bogues the paper appeared for a few years before it, in its turn, faded away, having failed to win mass backing and lacking the support of the SWP, which had been withdrawn when the internal debate within SWP ranks came to the conclusion that any paper aimed at Black people should be subject to direct SWP control. This clashed with the views of individuals such as Anthony Bogues, who returned to Jamaica to become a lecturer, who envisaged Flame as an autonomous grouping only loosely linked to the SWP.\n\nSimilarly a debate took place in these years concerning the question of the devolution of power to Scotland and Wales. In this instance the result was that the leadership would eventually change the entirely negative opposition of the group to devolution. At one point in this debate a Republican faction was formed with the support of a considerable part of the membership but with the change of line most supporters of the faction were easily placated. A few however, including Steve Freeman and Allan Armstrong, were to generalise their criticisms of the SWP and drifted out of it in 1980/81. Around the same time Steve Jeffries, an industrial organiser for the group and long time leading member, also left in disillusionment. In part his resignation was connected to the final disbandment of the remaining rank and file groups.\n\nIn many respects the period 1976 to 1981 can best be seen as a transitional period from the IS to the SWP. Not only was the rank and file strategy abandoned in practice, if not in theory, but there was in this period a massive change in leading figures within the group. By the end of this transition not only had figures associated with the ISO left but so to had a layer of intellectuals such as Steven Marks, Richard Kuper, Martin Shaw and Peter Sedgwick; industrial organisers such as Steve Jeffreys, Arthur Affleck and Bill Message had also left; in addition to which almost the entire toe-hold in blue collar industry won so laboriously had left or been expelled. And all this before the large scale restructuring of British capitalism.\n\nIn the 1970s the IS took part in a number of initiatives against the small fascist groups of the time but by 1974 these groups had coalesced into the National Front (NF) and were gaining substantial votes in electoral contests. To a lesser degree the British Movement was also providing cause for alarm. However it was not until the NF attempted to march through Lewisham in 1977 to the massive response of the local community leading to physical confrontations that the IS, by now transformed into the SWP took the initiative nationally. The result was the launch of the Anti Nazi League (ANL) which was conceived of as a United Front body which would involve forces, primarily within the workers' movement, politically to the right of the SWP.\n\nTo a considerable degree the ANL did win support from forces beyond the ranks of the SWP including from Ernie Roberts MP, a long-standing pillar of the Labour Left, from Peter Hain, then best known as an Anti-Apartheid campaigner, from Neil Kinnock MP and from numerous groups and organisations within the workers' movement. Perhaps the most significant body to endorse the ANL was the then substantial Indian Workers Association. In the next few years the ANL would call countless demonstrations against the NF and BM. The policy of the ANL was physical confrontation of far right groups in an effort to \"No Platform\" them—that is, to deny them any public platform.\n\nThis policy however brought the disapproval of the media and the ANL suffered a blow in March 1979 amid claims of financial 'irregularities' (i.e., funds being diverted to the SWP) which claims were denied by the National Treasurer of the ANL, Labour Party member Ernie Roberts. However some celebrity members of the ANL - Nottingham Forest manager Brian Clough being the first - renounced their support at this time.\n\nDespite the success of the 'Rock Against Racism' concerts (an ANL affiliated campaign), some of the punk rock bands that had been outspoken opponents of the NF from the start—such as the Sex Pistols/PiL —refused outright to have anything to do with an organisation they perceived as little more than an SWP front. (The Clash did headline the 1978 Carnival however). Tony Cliff told a \"Guardian\" reporter during the March 1979 crisis, \"The leadership of the ANL is the SWP and we don't give a damn\".\n\nIn 1981 the ANL was formally wound up as it was felt to be no longer needed and was then dissolved. Some individuals who had been involved in the ANL disagreed with this, and also wanted to show solidarity with the more militant side of the republican movement in Northern Ireland grouping around Provisional Sinn Féin. Expelled, they were to form Red Action.\n\nBy 1981 after a series of internal discussions the SWP was united around an understanding that the period was one that was best characterised as being a downturn in class combativity and that this meant that the SWP should concentrate its work on basic propaganda tasks and educational development of its membership. This understanding was balanced in the early part of the decade by adding a caveat that while the period was generally one of downturn there was also a political upturn around the Labour Left and the resurgent Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament.\n\nThis understanding could also lead to the group isolating itself when struggles did break as with the Miners' Strike in the middle of the decade. At that time Miners Support Groups developed in all of Britain's major cities but the SWP chose in the first months of the strike not to join them, on the basis that they were inadequate to deliver the solidarity actions, such as mass picketing and solidarity strike action, which the SWP argued were the tactics needed for the Miners Strike to be concluded victoriously. Later this stance was reversed. Although the SWP continued to argue that the Miners' Strike could only be won if other sections of workers were able to provide solidarity actions, as was the case in a number of major disputes in the 1970s, its members continued to be active around the dispute which was considered doomed to failure without solidarity actions. The hit squads which appeared late in the strike were seen as symptomatic of the desperation and isolation of the more committed younger miners and were firmly disapproved of.\n\nIn the aftermath the leadership of the SWP initiated moves towards the Militant tendency to form a common organisation motivated by the Labour Party's expulsion of that groups supporters. However, there was no response to the SWP's overtures and the Militant tendency, later Militant Labour, was the object of several Open Letters in \"Socialist Worker\" during the 1990s but to no avail.\n\nSince then, the SWP has affiliated with groups in various countries which comprise the International Socialist Tendency, and has been involved in a wide range of organisations, including the re-launch of the Anti Nazi League (which has evolved into Unite Against Fascism), and Globalise Resistance. They were instrumental in setting up the Stop the War Coalition an anti-war alliance formed first to oppose the invasion of Afghanistan and then the invasion of Iraq. They considered this anti-war movement to the major radicalising force in early 21st Century British politics and believe that it is a continuation of the anti-capitalist movement.\n\nIn 2001, the international tendency expelled the US section, the International Socialist Organization, despite no serious political differences.\n\nIn 1999 the SWP joined in the Socialist Alliance but later argued that it never managed to engage in the radicalism of the anti-war movement and presided over its winding up in 2004. They transferred their energies to a new project RESPECT Unity Coalition believing its emergence from the anti-war movement gave it the opportunity to be a much larger movement and cease sectarianism.\n\nIn Scotland SWP members joined the Scottish Socialist Party as an officially recognised platform in 2001 known as the \"Socialist Worker Platform\". However membership of the SSP does not seem to have increased the influence of the SWP and it has been claimed that the group has declined in numbers since joining. This claim being made by a former member of the SWP, Gregor Gall, in an article published in an attempt to change the course of the group written in 2004. Gall's figures were highly suspect and his motion did not even attract a single vote from the Scottish Platform of the SWP, Gall has since left the SWP and is now seen as a supporter of the leadership of the SSP. In 2006, SWP members in Scotland left the Scottish Socialist Party and joined the new organisation, Solidarity (Scotland).\n\nAnother major change for the SWP was the selling of its print shop in 2004 as the enterprise was no longer able to win an adequate degree of commercial work to supplement the group's own printing requirements; it had printed \"Private Eye\", the \"Morning Star\", and other publications. Built in the early 1970s the print shop had originally been established in 1968 when \"Socialist Worker\" first appeared. SWP publications are now printed by commercial printers with the result that their appearance has undergone a great improvement. However it should not be ignored that the print shop had helped to subsidise the SWP's own publications and it has been suggested that the sale of the print shop was the result of a crisis in the group's finances.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the membership was claimed to be around 5,000 with 4,000 paying Dues monthly. The 2004 Party Conference reported a membership figure of 7,585 members, although other rival socialist groups estimate it to now be closer to 3,000. There is debate within the party as to the reason for failure to grow out of the radicalism of the anti-war movement, some claiming it is the lack of left/right perspectives, some the low industrial struggle, others claim the unconditional but critical support for \"insurgents\" isolates them.\n\nThere was a disagreement within the leadership of the SWP concerning the future of the party's involvement in broader fronts such as the Stop the War Coalition. As a result, its leading body, the Central Committee, proposed a slate that removed John Rees from the body over the objections of Rees and Lindsey German in 2009. This slate was approved by the party conference.\n\nA Disputes Committee document was discussed at the party conference in January 2013 about allegations of sexual assault and rape made by a much younger female member against 'Comrade Delta', a senior party official who by then was no longer in his former post. Allegations about Delta's behaviour had been an issue for several years within the group, the first complaint against him being made in 2010. 'Delta' has never been questioned by the police about the allegations made against him. According to Alex Callinicos in June 2014, around 700 members of the SWP have resigned from the group.\n\n"}
{"id": "2049837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2049837", "title": "Institute for Public Affairs (Slovakia)", "text": "Institute for Public Affairs (Slovakia)\n\nThe Institute for Public Affairs () is a non-governmental think tank, registered to operate in the Slovak Republic. It was founded by Grigorij Mesežnikov and Martin Bútora, with the aim of promoting the values of an open society and a democratic political culture in public policy and decision-making. IVO brings together experts from many different areas of study. Mesežnikov has been President of the institute since 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "806434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=806434", "title": "Italian irredentism", "text": "Italian irredentism\n\nItalian irredentism () was a nationalist movement during the late 19th and early 20th centuries in Italy with irredentist goals which promoted the unification of geographic areas in which indigenous ethnic Italians and Italian-speaking persons formed a majority, or substantial minority, of the population.\n\nOriginally, the movement promoted the annexation to Italy of territories inhabited by an Italian indigenous population, but retained by the Austrian Empire after Third Italian War of Independence in 1866.\n\nDuring the period of \"Risorgimento\" in 1860 to 1861, Prime Minister of Piedmont-Sardinia, Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour who was leading the \"Risorgimento\" effort, faced the view of French Emperor Napoleon III who indicated that France would support militarily the Italian unification provided that France was given Nice and Savoy that were held by Piedmont-Sardinia, as France did not want a powerful state having control of the passages of the Alps. As a result, Piedmont-Sardinia was pressured to cede Nice and Savoy to France in exchange for France accepting and sending troops to help the unification of Italy. These included Trentino and Trieste, but also multilingual and multiethnic areas within the northern Italian region encompassed by the Alps, with German, Italian, Slovene, Croatian, Ladin and Istro-Romanian population such as South Tyrol, a part of Istria, Gorizia and Gradisca and part of Dalmatia. The claims were extended later to the city of Fiume, Corsica, the island of Malta, the County of Nice and Italian Switzerland.\n\nTo avoid confusion and in line with , this article uses modern English place names throughout. However, most places have alternative names in Italian. See List of Italian place names in Dalmatia.\n\nItalian irredentism was not a formal organization as it was an opinion movement, advocated by several different groups, claiming that Italy had to reach its \"natural borders\" or unify territories inhabited by Italians. Similar nationalistic ideas were common in Europe in the late 19th century. The term \"irredentism\" was successfully coined from the Italian word in many countries in the world (see List of irredentist claims or disputes). This idea of \"Italia irredenta\" is not to be confused with the Risorgimento, the historical events that led to irredentism, nor with nationalism or Imperial Italy, the political philosophy that took the idea further under fascism.\n\nThe beginning of irredentism in Italy was originated as a consequence of the French expansion in Italy that started with the annexation of Corsica in 1768 and was followed by Napoleon's inclusion \"–\" inside the territories of France's First French Empire \"–\" of the regions of Piedmont, Liguria and Tuscany. Indeed, the Corsican revolutionary Pasquale Paoli was called \"the precursor of Italian irredentism\" by Niccolò Tommaseo because he was the first to promote the Italian language and socio-culture (the main characteristics of Italian irredentism) in his island; Paoli wanted the Italian language to be the official language of the newly founded Corsican Republic. Even his Corsican Constitution of 1755 was written in Italian and the short-lived university he founded in the city of Corte in 1765 used Italian as the official language.\n\nDuring the 19th century, the Italian irredentism fully developed the characteristic of defending the Italian language from other people's languages like, for example, German in Switzerland and in the Austro-Hungarian Empire or French in Nice.\n\nThe liberation of \"Italia irredenta\" was perhaps the strongest motive for Italy's entry into World War I and the Treaty of Versailles in 1919 satisfied many irredentist claims.\n\nIndeed, Italian irredentism has even the characteristic of being originally moderate, requesting only the return to Italy of the areas with Italian majority of population, but after World War I it became aggressive – under fascist influence – and claimed to the Kingdom of Italy even areas where Italians were minority or had been present only in the past. In the first case there were the Risorgimento claims on Trento, while in the second there were the fascist claims on the Ionian Islands, Savoy and Malta.\n\nAfter the Italian unification and Third Italian War of Independence in 1866, there were areas with Italian-speaking communities within the borders of several countries around the newly created Kingdom of Italy. The irredentists sought to annex all those areas to the newly unified Italy. The areas targeted were Corsica, Dalmatia, Gorizia, the Ionian islands, Istria, Malta, County of Nice, Ticino, small parts of Grisons and of Valais, Trentino, Trieste and Fiume.\n\nDifferent movements or groups born in this period: in 1877 the Italian politician Matteo Renato Imbriani invented the new term \"terre irredente\" (\"unredeemed lands\"); in the same year the movement \"Associazione in pro dell'Italia Irredenta\" (\"Association for the Unredeemed Italy\") was founded; in the 1885 was founded the \"Pro Patria\" movement (\"For Fatherland\") and in 1891 the \"Lega Nazionale Italiana\" (\"Italian National League\") was founded in Trento and Trieste (in the Austrian Empire).\n\nInitially, the movement can be described as part of the more general nation-building process in Europe in the 19th and 20th centuries when the multi-national Austro-Hungarian, Russian and Ottoman Empires were being replaced by nation-states. The Italian nation-building process can be compared to similar movements in Germany (\"Großdeutschland\"), Hungary, Serbia and in pre-1914 Poland. Simultaneously, in many parts of 19th century Europe liberalism and nationalism were ideologies which were coming to the forefront of political culture. In Eastern Europe, where the Habsburg Empire had long asserted control over a variety of ethnic and cultural groups, nationalism appeared in a standard format. The beginning of the 19th century \"was the period when the smaller, mostly indigenous nationalities of the empire – Czechs, Slovaks, Slovenes, Croats, Serbs, Ukrainians, Romanians – remembered their historical traditions, revived their native tongues as literary languages, reappropriated their traditions and folklore, in short reasserted their existence as nations\". The notion of a single united Italy was related to the aspirations of the \"majority populations\".\n\nA precursor of the \"irredentists\" was the unification leader Giuseppe Garibaldi, who in 1859 as deputy for his native Nice in the Piedmontese parliament at Turin attacked Cavour for ceding Nice to Napoleon III in order to get French help and approval for Italian Unification. Irredentism grew in importance in Italy in the next years.\n\nOn 21 July 1878, a noisy public meeting was held at Rome with Menotti Garibaldi, the son of Giuseppe Garibaldi, as chairman of the forum and a clamour was raised for the formation of volunteer battalions to conquer the Trentino. Benedetto Cairoli, then Prime Minister of Italy, treated the agitation with tolerance.\n\nHowever, it was mainly superficial, as most Italians did not wish a dangerous policy against Austria and even less against France for the sake of Nice and Corsica, or against Britain for Malta.\n\nOne consequence of irredentist ideas outside of Italy was an assassination plot organized against the Emperor Francis Joseph in Trieste in 1882, which was detected and foiled. Guglielmo Oberdan, a Triestine and thus Austrian citizen, was executed. When the irredentist movement became troublesome to Italy through the activity of Republicans and Socialists, it was subject to effective police control by Agostino Depretis.\n\nIrredentism faced a setback when the French occupation of Tunisia in 1881 started a crisis in French–Italian relations. The government entered into relations with Austria and Germany, which took shape with the formation of the Triple Alliance in 1882.\n\nThe irredentists' dream of absorbing the targeted areas into Italy made no further progress in the 19th century, as the borders of the Kingdom of Italy remained unchanged and the Rome government began to set up colonies in Eritrea and Somalia in Africa.\n\n\"See also\": \"The Kingdom of Italy's entry into World War I\" and \"Italy in World War I – from neutrality to intervention\"\n\nItaly signed the London Pact and entered World War I with the intention of gaining those territories perceived by irredentists as being Italian under foreign rule. According to the pact, Italy was to leave the Triple Alliance and join the Entente Powers. Furthermore, Italy was to declare war on Germany and Austria-Hungary within a month. The declaration of war was duly published on 23 May 1915. In exchange, Italy was to obtain various territorial gains at the end of the war. In April 1918, in what he described as an open letter \"to the American Nation\" Paolo Thaon di Revel, Commander in Chief of the Italian navy, appealed to the people of the United States to support Italian territorial claims over Trento, Trieste, Istria, Dalmatia and the Adriatic, writing that \"we are fighting to expel an intruder from our home\".\nThe outcome of the First World War and the consequent settlement of the Treaty of Saint-Germain met some Italian claims, including many (but not all) of the aims of the \"Italia irredenta\" party. Italy gained Trieste, Gorizia, Istria and the city of Zara. In Dalmatia, despite the Treaty of London, only territories with Italian majority as Zadar (Zara) with some Dalmatian islands, such as Cres (Cherso), Lošinj (Lussino) and Lastovo (Lagosta) were annexed by Italy because Woodrow Wilson, supporting Yugoslav claims and not recognizing the treaty, rejected Italian requests on other Dalmatian territories.\n\nThe city of Rijeka (Fiume) in the Kvarner was the subject of claim and counter-claim because it had an Italian majority, but Fiume had not been promised to Italy in the London Pact, though it was to become Italian by 1924 (see Italian Regency of Carnaro, Treaty of Rapallo, 1920 and Treaty of Rome, 1924).\n\nThe stand taken by the irredentist Gabriele D'Annunzio, which briefly led him to become an enemy of the Italian state, was meant to provoke a nationalist revival through corporatism (first instituted during his rule over Fiume), in front of what was widely perceived as state corruption engineered by governments such as Giovanni Giolitti's.\n\nD'Annunzio briefly annexed to this \"Regency of Carnaro\" even the Dalmatian islands of Krk (Veglia) and Rab (Arbe), where there was a numerous Italian community.\n\nFascist Italy strove to be seen as the natural result of war heroism against a \"betrayed Italy\" that had not been awarded all it \"deserved\", as well as appropriating the image of Arditi soldiers. In this vein, irredentist claims were expanded and often used in Fascist Italy's desire to control the Mediterranean basin. To the east of Italy, the Fascists claimed that Dalmatia was a land of Italian culture whose Italians, including those of Italianized South Slavic descent, had been driven out of Dalmatia and into exile in Italy, and supported the return of Italians of Dalmatian heritage. Mussolini identified Dalmatia as having strong Italian cultural roots for centuries via the Roman Empire and the Republic of Venice. The Fascists especially focused their claims based on the Venetian cultural heritage of Dalmatia, claiming that Venetian rule had been beneficial for all Dalmatians and had been accepted by the Dalmatian population. The Fascists were outraged after World War I, when the agreement between Italy and the Entente Allies in the Treaty of London of 1915 to have Dalmatia join Italy was revoked in 1919.\n\nTo the west of Italy, the Fascists claimed that the territories of Corsica, Nice and Savoy held by France were Italian lands. The Fascist regime produced literature on Corsica was that presented evidence of the \"italianità\" of the island. The Fascist regime produced literature on Nice that justified that Nice was an Italian land based on historic, ethnic and linguistic grounds. The Fascists quoted Medieval Italian scholar Petrarch who said: \"The border of Italy is the Var; consequently Nice is a part of Italy\". The Fascists quoted Italian national hero Giuseppe Garibaldi, a native of Nizza (Nice) himself, who said: \"Corsica and Nice must not belong to France; there will come the day when an Italy mindful of its true worth will reclaim its provinces now so shamefully languishing under foreign domination\". Mussolini initially pursued promoting annexation of Corsica through political and diplomatic means, believing that Corsica could be annexed to Italy through Italy first encouraging the existing autonomist tendencies in Corsica and then independence of Corsica from France, that would be followed by annexation of Corsica into Italy.\n\nIn 1923, Mussolini temporarily occupied Corfu, using irredentist claims based on minorities of Italians in the Ionian islands of Greece. Similar tactics may have been used towards the islands around the Kingdom of Italy \"–\" through the Pro-Italian Maltese, Corfiot Italians and Corsican Italians \"–\" in order to control the Mediterranean sea (his \"Mare Nostrum\", from the Latin \"Our Sea\").\n\nDuring World War II, large parts of Dalmatia were annexed by Italy into the Governorship of Dalmatia from 1941 to 1943. Corsica and Nice were also administratively annexed by the Kingdom of Italy in November 1942. Malta was heavily bombed, but was not occupied due to Erwin Rommel's request of diverting to North Africa the forces that had been prepared for the invasion of the island.\n\nThe Italian linguist Matteo Bartoli calculated that Italian was the primary spoken language by almost 30% of the Dalmatian population at the beginning of the Napoleonic wars. Bartoli's evaluation was followed by other claims: Auguste de Marmont, the French Governor General of the Napoleonic Illyrian Provinces commissioned a census in 1814–1815 which found that Dalmatian Italians comprised 25% of the total population of Dalmatia. Accordingly, three years later an Austrian census found around 70,000 Italians in a total of 301,000 people living in Austrian Dalmatia.\n\nWith the development of Croatian nationalism, critics such as Croatian historian Duško Večerina asserted that these evaluations were not conducted by modern scientific standards and that they took spoken language as the criterion, rather than blood, origin and ethnicity. They pointed out that—according to a report by Imperial court councillor Joseph Fölch in 1827—the Italian language was spoken by noblemen and some citizens of middle and lower classes exclusively in the coastal cities of Zadar, Šibenik and Split. Since only around 20,000 people populated these towns and not all were Italian speakers, their real number was rather smaller, probably around 7% of the total population, as is asserted by the Department of Historical Studies of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts (HAZU).\n\nNot only Italian irredentists (like Gabriele D'Annunzio) but also Italian prominent scholars (like Angelo Vivante) alleged that Joseph Fölch did not include the Dalmatian islands of Cres (Cherso), Lošinj (Lussino), Krk (Veglia), Vis (Lissa), Hvar (Lesina), Korcula (Curzola) and many others islands with significant Italian communities and so in their opinion Folch did only a partial and mistaken estimate of the real number of the Dalmatian Italians. They reasserted that the only official evidence about the Dalmatian population comes from the 1857 Austro-Hungarian census, which showed that in this year there were 369,310 indigenous Croatians and 45,000 Italians in Dalmatia, making Dalmatian Italians 17% of the total population of Dalmatia in the mid-19th century.\n\nDalmatia was a strategic region during World War I that both Italy and Serbia intended to seize from Austria-Hungary. Italy joined the Triple Entente Allies in 1915 upon agreeing to the London Pact that guaranteed Italy the right to annex a large portion of Dalmatia in exchange for Italy's participation on the Allied side. From 5–6 November 1918, Italian forces were reported to have reached Vis, Lastovo, Šibenik, and other localities on the Dalmatian coast. By the end of hostilities in November 1918, the Italian military had seized control of the entire portion of Dalmatia that had been guaranteed to Italy by the London Pact and by 17 November had seized Fiume as well. In 1918, Admiral Enrico Millo declared himself Italy's Governor of Dalmatia. Famous Italian nationalist Gabriele d'Annunzio supported the seizure of Dalmatia and proceeded to Zadar in an Italian warship in December 1918.\n\nThe last city with a significant Italian presence in Dalmatia was the city of Zadar. In the Habsburg empire census of 1910, the city of Zadar had an Italian population of 9,318 (or 69.3% out of the total of 13,438 inhabitants). Zadar's population grew to 24,100 inhabitants, of which 20,300 were Italians, when in 1942 it was the capital of the Governorate of Dalmatia (the \"Governorate\" fulfilled the aspirations of Italian irredentism in the Adriatic).\n\nIn 1943, Josip Broz Tito informed the Allies that Zadar was a chief logistic centre for German forces in Yugoslavia. By overstating its importance, he persuaded them of its military significance. Italy surrendered in September 1943 and over the following year, specifically between 2 November 1943 and 31 October 1944, Allied Forces bombarded the town fifty-four times.\n\nNearly 2,000 people were buried beneath rubble: 10–12,000 people escaped and took refuge in Trieste and slightly over 1,000 reached Apulia.\n\nTito's partisans entered in Zadar on 31 October 1944 and 138 people were killed. With the Peace Treaty of 1947, Italians still living in Zadar followed the Italian exodus from Dalmatia and only about 100 Dalmatian Italians now remain in the city.\n\nAfter World War II, Italian Irredentism diminished along with the defeated Fascists and the Monarchy of the House of Savoy. After the Treaty of Paris (1947) and the Treaty of Osimo (1975), all territorial claims were abandoned by the Italian State (see Foreign relations of Italy). Today, Italy, France, Malta, Greece, Croatia and Slovenia are all members of the European Union, while Montenegro and Albania are candidates for accession.\nThey often cited the then-Italian Deputy Gianfranco Fini, who in Senigallia in 2004 gave an interview to the \"Slobodna Dalmacija\" daily newspaper at the 51st gathering of the Italians who left Yugoslavia after World War II, in which he was reported to have said: \"From the son of an Italian from Fiume I learned that those areas were and are Italian, but not because at any particular historical moment our army planted Italians there. This country was Venetian, and before that Roman\". Rather than issuing an official rebuttal of those words, Carlo Giovanardi, then Parliamentary Affairs Minister in Berlusconi's government, affirmed Fini's words by saying \"that he told the truth\".\n\nThese sources pointed out that on the 52nd gathering of the same association, in 2005, Carlo Giovanardi was quoted by the \"Večernji list\" daily newspaper as saying that Italy would launch a cultural, economic and touristic invasion in order to restore \"the Italianness of Dalmatia\" while participating in a roundtable discussion on the topic \"Italy and Dalmatia today and tomorrow\". Giovanardi later declared that he had been misunderstood and sent a letter to the Croatian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in which he condemned nationalism and ethnic strife.\nThey underlined that Alleanza Nazionale (a former Italian conservative party) derived directly from the Italian Social Movement (MSI), a neo-fascist party. In 1994, Mirko Tremaglia, a member of the MSI and later of Alleanza Nazionale, described Rijeka, Istria and Dalmatia as \"historically Italian\" and referred to them as \"occupied territories\", saying that Italy should \"tear up\" the 1975 Treaty of Osimo with the former Yugoslavia and block Slovenia and Croatia's accession to European Union membership until the rights of their Italian minorities were respected.\nIn 2001, Italian president Carlo Azeglio Ciampi gave the golden medal (for the aerial bombings endured during World War II) to the last Italian administration of Zadar, represented by its Gonfalone, owned by the association \"Free municipality of Zadar in exile\". Croatian authorities complained that he was awarding a fascist institution, even if the motivations for the golden medal explicitly recalled the contribution of the city to the Resistance against Fascism. The motivations were contested by several Italian right-wing associations, such as the same \"Free municipality of Zadar in exile\" and the Lega Nazionale.\nOn 12 December 2007, the Italian post office issued a stamp with a photo of the Croatian city of Rijeka and with the text \"Fiume – eastern land once part of Italy\" (\"\"Fiume-terra orientale già italiana\"). Some Croatian sources affirmed that \"già italiana\"\" could also mean \"already Italian\", even if according to Italian syntaxis the correct meaning in this case is only \"previously Italian\". 3.5 million copies of the stamp were printed , but it was not delivered by the Italian Post Office in order to forestall a possible diplomatic crisis with Croatian and Slovenian authorities . Nevertheless, some of the stamps leaked out and came in official use, and it became widely available.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "274736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274736", "title": "Jizya", "text": "Jizya\n\nJizya or jizyah ( ' ; ') is a per capita yearly tax historically levied on non-Muslim subjects, called the \"dhimma\", permanently residing in Muslim lands governed by Islamic law. Muslim jurists required adult, free, sane males among the dhimma community to pay the jizya, while exempting women, children, elders, handicapped, the ill, the insane, monks, hermits, slaves, and musta'mins—non-Muslim foreigners who only temporarily reside in Muslim lands. Dhimmis who chose to join military service were also exempted from payment, as were those who could not afford to pay.\n\nThe Quran and hadiths mention jizya without specifying its rate or amount. However, scholars largely agree that early Muslim rulers adapted existing systems of taxation and tribute that were established under previous rulers of the conquered lands, such as those of the Byzantine and Sasanian empires.\n\nThe application of jizya varied in the course of Islamic history. Together with kharāj, a term that was sometimes used interchangeably with jizya, taxes levied on non-Muslim subjects were among the main sources of revenues collected by some Islamic polities, such as the Ottoman Empire. Jizya rate was usually a fixed annual amount depending on the financial capability of the payer. Sources comparing taxes levied on Muslims and jizya differ as to their relative burden depending on time, place, specific taxes under consideration, and other factors.\n\nHistorically, the jizya tax has been understood in Islam as a fee for protection provided by the Muslim ruler to non-Muslims, for the exemption from military service for non-Muslims, for the permission to practice a non-Muslim faith with some communal autonomy in a Muslim state, and as material proof of the non-Muslims' submission to the Muslim state and its laws. Jizya has also been understood by some as a ritual humiliation of the non-Muslims in a Muslim state for not converting to Islam, while others argue that if it were meant to be a punishment for the dhimmis' unbelief then monks and the clergy wouldn't have been exempted.\n\nThe term appears in the Quran referring to a tax or tribute from \"People of the Book\" specifically Jews and Christians.\nFollowers of other religions like Zoroastrians and Hindus too were later integrated into the category of \"dhimmis\" and required to pay jizya. In the Indian Subcontinent the practice was eradicated by the 18th century. It almost vanished during the 20th century with disappearance of Islamic states and spread of religious tolerance. The tax is no longer imposed by nation states in the Islamic world, although there are reported cases of organizations such as the Pakistani Taliban and ISIS attempting to revive the practice.\n\nSome modern Islamic scholars have argued that jizya should be paid by non-Muslim subjects of an Islamic state, offering different rationales. For example, Sayyid Qutb saw it as punishment for \"polytheism\", while Abdul Rahman Doi viewed it as a counterpart of the zakat tax paid by Muslims. According to Khaled Abou El Fadl, moderate Muslims reject the dhimma system, which encompasses jizya, as inappropriate for the age of nation-states and democracies.\n\nWhile scholars like Abu Hanifa and Abu Yusuf stated that jizya should be imposed on all non-Muslims without distinction, some later and more extremist jurists do not permit jizya for idolators and instead only allowed the choice of conversion to avoid death.\n\nCommentators disagree on the definition and derivation of the word \"jizya\":\n\nMost Muslim jurists and scholars regard the jizya as a special payment collected from certain non-Muslims in return for the responsibility of protection fulfilled by Muslims against any type of aggression, as well as for non-Muslims being exempt from military service, and in exchange for the suppliance of poor dhimmis. In a treaty made by Khalid with some towns in the neighborhood of Hirah, he writes: \"If we protect you, then jizya is due to us; but if we do not, then it is not due.\" Early Hanafi jurist Abu Yusuf writes:\n\nIn accordance with this order, enormous sums were paid back out of the state treasury, and the Christians called down blessings on the heads of the Muslims, saying, \"May God give you rule over us again and make you victorious over the Romans; had it been they, they would not have given us back anything, but would have taken all that remained with us.\" Similarly, during the time of the Crusades, Saladin returned the jizya to the Christians of Syria when he was compelled to retract from it. Moreover, the Christian tribe of al-Jurajima, in the neighborhood of Antioch, made peace with the Muslims, promising to be their allies and fight on their side in battle, on condition that they should not be called upon to pay jizya and should receive their proper share of the booty. The orientalist Thomas Walker Arnold writes that even Muslims were made to pay a tax if they were exempted from military service, like non-Muslims. Thus, the Shafi'i scholar al-Khaṭīb ash-Shirbīniy states: \"Military service is not obligatory for non-Muslims – especially for dhimmis since they give jizya so that we protect and defend them, and not so that he defends us.\" Ibn Hajar al-Asqalani states that there is a consensus amongst Islamic jurists that jizya is in exchange for military service. In the case of war, jizya is seen as an option to end hostilities. According to Abu Kalam Azad, one of the main objectives of jizya was to facilitate a peaceful solution to hostility, since non-Muslims who engaged in fighting against Muslims were thereby given the option of making peace by agreeing to pay jizya. In this sense, jizya is seen as a means by which to legalize the cessation of war and military conflict with non-Muslims. In a similar vein, Mahmud Shaltut states that \"jizya was never intended as payment in return for one's life or retaining one's religion, it was intended as a symbol to signify yielding, an end of hostility and a participation in shouldering the burdens of the state.\"\n\nThe second rationale offered by Islamic scholars for the imposition of Jizya tax on non-Muslims is that it was a substitute to the requirement of zakat tax from Muslims.\n\nThirdly, jizya created a place for the inclusion of a non-Muslim \"dhimmi\" in a land owned and ruled by a Muslim, where routine payment of jizya was a tool of social stratification and treasury's revenue.\n\nFinally, jizya served as a reminder of subordination of a non-Muslim under Muslims, and created a financial and political incentive for \"dhimmis\" to convert to Islam. The Muslim jurist and theologian Fakhr al-Din al-Razi suggested in his interpretation of Q.9:29 that jizya is an incentive to convert. Taking it is not intended to preserve the existence of disbelief (\"kufr\") in the world. Rather, he argues, jizya allows the non-Muslim to live amongst Muslims and take part in Islamic civilization in the hope that the non-Muslim will convert to Islam.\n\nJizya is sanctioned by the Qur'an based on the following verse:\n\n1. \"Fight those who believe not in God and the Last Day (qātilū-lladhīna lā yuʾminūna bi-llāhi wa-lā bi-l-yawmi-l-ākhir)\"\n\nMuhammad Sa'id Ramadan al-Buti says commenting on this verse, 'the verse commands \"qitāl\" (قتال) and not \"qatl\" (قتل), and it is known that there is a big distinction between these two words ... For you say qataltu\" (قتلت) so-and-so' if you initiated the fighting, while you say qātaltu\" (قاتلت) him' if you resisted his effort to fight you by a reciprocal fight, or if you forestalled him in that so that he would not get at you unawares.' Commenting on the \"jizya\" verse, Abū Ḥayyān states, 'they are so described because their way [of acting] is the way of those who do not believe in God,' while Ahmad Al-Maraghī comments on it: \"fight those mentioned when the conditions which necessitate fighting are present, namely, aggression against you or your country, oppression and persecution against you on account of your faith, or threatening your safety and security, as was committed against you by the Byzantines, which was what lead to Tabuk.\" Muhammad Abdel-Haleem writes that there is nothing in the Qur'an to say that not believing in God and the Last Day is in itself grounds for fighting anyone.\n\n2. \"Do not forbid what God and His Messenger have forbidden (wa-lā yuḥarrimūna mā ḥarrama-llāhu wa-rasūluh)\"\n\nThe closest and most viable cause must relate to \"jizya\", that is, unlawfully consuming what belongs to the Muslim state, which, al-Bayḍāwī explains, 'it has been decided that they should give', since their own scriptures and prophets forbid breaking agreements and not paying what is due to others. His Messenger in this verse has been interpreted by exegetes as referring to the Prophet Muḥammad or the People of the Book's own earlier messengers, Moses or Jesus. According to Abdel-Haleem, the latter must be the correct interpretation as it is already assumed that the People of the Book did not believe in Muḥammad or forbid what he forbade, so that they are condemned for not obeying their own prophet, who told them to honour their agreements.\n\n3. \"Who do not embrace the true faith // Who do not behave according to the rule of justice\" (\"wa-lā yadīnūna dīna'l-ḥaqq\")\n\nA number of translators have rendered the text as \"those who do not embrace the true faith/follow the religion of truth\" or some variation thereof. Muhammad Abdel-Haleem argues against this translation, preferring instead to render \"dīna'l-ḥaqq\" as \"rule of justice\". The main meaning of the Arabic \"dāna\" is 'he obeyed', and one of the many meanings of \"dīn\" is 'behaviour' (\"al-sīra wa'l-ʿāda\"). The famous Arabic lexicographer Fayrūzabādī (d. 817/1415), gives more than twelve meanings for the word \"dīn\", placing the meaning 'worship of God, religion' lower in the list. \"Al-Muʿjam al-wasīṭ\" gives the following definition: '\"\"dāna\" is to be in the habit of doing something good or bad; \"dāna bi\"- something\" is to take it as a religion and worship God through it'. Thus, when the verb \"dāna\" is used in the sense of 'to believe' or 'to practise a religion', it takes the preposition \"bi\"- after it (e.g. \"dāna bi'l-Islām\") and this is the only usage in which the word means religion. The jizya verse does not say \"lā yadīnūna bi-dīni'l-ḥaqq\", but rather \"lā yadīnūna dīna'l-ḥaqq\". Abdel-Haleem thus concludes that the meaning that fits the jizya verse is thus 'those who do not follow the way of justice (\"al-ḥaqq\")', i.e. by breaking their agreement and refusing to pay what is due.\n\n4. \"Until they pay jizya with their own hands (ḥattā yu'ṭū-l-jizyata 'an yadin).\"\n\nHere \"ʿan yad\" (from/for/at hand), is interpreted by some to mean that they should pay directly, without intermediary and without delay. Others say that it refers to its reception by Muslims and means \"generously\" as in \"with an open hand,\" since the taking of the jizya is a form of munificence that averted a state of conflict. al-Ṭabarī gives only one explanation: that 'it means \"from their hands to the hands of the receiver\" just as we say \"I spoke to him mouth to mouth\", we also say, \"I gave it to him hand to hand\"'. M.J. Kister understands \"'an yad\" to be a reference to the \"ability and sufficient means\" of the \"dhimmi\". Similarly, Rashid Rida takes the word \"Yad\" in a metaphorical sense and relates the phrase to the financial ability of the person liable to pay jizya.\n\n5. While they are subdued \"(wa-hum ṣāghirūn).\"\n\nMark R. Cohen writes that 'while they are subdued' was interpreted by many to mean \"humiliated state of the non-Muslims\". According to Ziauddin Ahmed, in the view of the majority of \"Fuqahā\" (Islamic jurists), the jizya was levied on non-Muslims in order to humiliate them for their unbelief. In contrast, Abdel-Haleem writes that this notion of humiliation runs contrary to verses such as, \"Do not dispute with the People of the Book except in the best manner\" (Q 29:46), and the Prophetic \"ḥadīth\", 'May God have mercy on the man who is liberal and easy-going (\"samḥ\") when he buys, when he sells, and when he demands what is due to him'. Al-Shafi'i, the founder of the Shafi'i school of law, wrote that a number of scholars explained this last expression to mean that \"Islamic rulings are enforced on them.\" This understanding is reiterated by the Hanbali jurist Ibn Qayyim al-Jawziyya, who interprets \"wa-hum ṣāghirūn\" as making all subjects of the state obey the law and, in the case of the People of the Book, pay the jizya.\n\nRules for liability and exemptions of jizya formulated by jurists in the early Abbasid period appear to have remained generally valid thereafter.\n\nIslamic jurists required adult, free, sane, able-bodied males of military age with no religious functions among the dhimma community to pay the jizya, while exempting women, children, elders, handicapped, monks, hermits, the poor, the ill, the insane, slaves, as well as musta'mins (non-Muslim foreigners who only temporarily reside in Muslim lands) and converts to Islam. Dhimmis who chose to join military service were exempted from payment. If anyone could not afford this tax, they would not have to pay anything. Sometimes a dhimmi was exempted from jizya if he rendered some valuable services to the state.\n\nThe Hanafi scholar Abu Yusuf wrote, \"slaves, women, children, the old, the sick, monks, hermits, the insane, the blind and the poor, were exempt from the tax\" and states that jizya should not be collected from those who have neither income nor any property, but survive by begging and from alms. The Hanbali jurist al-Qāḍī Abū Yaʿlā states, \"there is no jizya upon the poor, the old, and the chronically ill\". Historical reports tell of exemptions granted by the second caliph 'Umar to an old blind Jew and others like him. The Maliki scholar Al-Qurtubi writes that, \"there is a consensus amongst Islamic scholars that jizya is to be taken only from heads of free men past puberty, who are the ones fighting, but not from women, the children, the slaves, the insane, and the dying old.\" The 13th century Shafi'i scholar Al-Nawawī wrote that a \"woman, a hermaphrodite, a slave even when partially enfranchised, a minor and a lunatic are exempt from \"jizya\".\" The 14th century Hanbali scholar Ibn Qayyim wrote, \"And there is no Jizya upon the aged, one suffering from chronic disease, the blind, and the patient who has no hope of recovery and has despaired of his health, even if they have enough.\" Ibn Qayyim adds, referring to the four Sunni maddhabs: \"There is no Jizya on the kids, women and the insane. This is the view of the four imams and their followers. Ibn Mundhir said, 'I do not know anyone to have differed with them.' Ibn Qudama said in al-Mughni, 'We do not know of any difference of opinion among the learned on this issue.\" In contrast, the Shāfi'ī jurist Al-Nawawī wrote: \"Our school insists upon the payment of the poll-tax by sickly persons, old men, even if decrepit, blind men, monks, workmen, and poor persons incapable of exercising a trade. As for people who seem to be insolvent at the end of the year, the sum of the poll tax remained as debt to their account until they should become solvent.\" Abu Hanifa, in one of his opinions, and Abu Yusuf held that monks were subject to jizya if they worked. Ibn Qayyim stated that the \"dhahir\" opinion of Ibn Hanbal is that peasants and cultivators were also exempted from jizya.\n\nThough \"jizya\" was mandated initially for People of the Book (Judaism, Christianity, Sabianism), it was extended by Islamic jurists to all non-Muslims. Thus Muslim rulers in India, with the exception of Akbar, collected \"jizya\" from Hindus, Buddhists, Jains and Sikhs under their rule.\n\nThe sources of jizya and the practices varied significantly over Islamic history. Shelomo Dov Goitein states that the exemptions for the indigent, the invalids and the old were no longer observed in the milieu reflected by the Cairo Geniza and were discarded even in theory by the Shāfi'ī jurists who were influential in Egypt at the time. According to Kristen A. Stilt, historical sources indicate that in Mamluk Egypt, poverty did \"not necessarily excuse\" the dhimmi from paying the tax, and boys as young as nine years old could be considered adults for tax purposes, making the tax particularly burdensome for large, poor families. Ashtor and Bornstein-Makovetsky infer from Geniza documents that jizya was also collected in Egypt from the age of nine in the 11th century.\n\nThe rates of jizya were not uniform. By the time of Mohammed, the jiyza rate was one dinar per year imposed on male dhimmis in Medina, Mecca, Khaibar, Yemen, and Nejran and maximum of twelve dirhams under Achtiname of Muhammad for Saint Catherine's Monastery. According to Muhammad Hamidullah, the rate of ten dirhams per annum represented the expenses of an average family for ten days. Abu Yusuf, the chief qadhi of the caliph Harun al-Rashid, states that there was no amount permanently fixed for the tax, though the payment usually depended on wealth: the \"Kitab al-Kharaj\" of Abu Yusuf sets the amounts at 48 dirhams for the richest (e.g. moneychangers), 24 for those of moderate wealth, and 12 for craftsmen and manual laborers? Moreover, it could be paid in kind if desired; cattle, merchandise, household effects, even needles were to be accepted in lieu of specie (coins), but not pigs, wine, or dead animals.\n\nThe jizya varied in accordance with the affluence of the people of the region and their ability to pay. In this regard, Abu Ubayd ibn Sallam comments that the Prophet imposed 1 dinar (then worth 10 or 12 dirhams) upon each adult in Yemen. This was less than what Umar imposed upon the people of Syria and Iraq, the higher rate being due to the Yemenis greater affluence and ability to pay.\n\nThe rate of jizya that were fixed and implemented by the second caliph of the Rashidun Caliphate, namely 'Umar bin al-Khattab, during the period of his Khilafah, were small amounts: four dirhams from the rich, two dirhams from the middle class and only one dirham from the active poor who earned by working on wages, or by making or vending things. The 13th-century scholar Al-Nawawī writes, \"The minimum amount of the jizya is one dinar per person per annum; but it is commendable to raise the amount, if it be possible to two dinars, for those possessed of moderate means, and to four for rich persons.\" Abu 'Ubayd insists that the \"dhimmis\" must not be burdened beyond their capacity, nor must they be caused to suffer.\n\nIbn Qudamah narrates three views in what concerns the rates of jizya. First, that it is a fixed amount that can't be changed, a view that is reportedly shared by Abu Hanifa and al-Shafi'i. Secondly, that it is up to the Imam (Muslim ruler) to make ijtihād (independent reasoning) so as to decide whether to add or decrease. He gives the example of 'Umar making particular amounts for each class (the rich, the middle class and the active poor). Finally, the third opinion considered the strict minimum to be one dinar, but gave no upper bound concerning the maximum amount. Ibn Khaldun states that jizya has fixed limits that cannot be exceeded. In the classical manual of Shafi'i fiqh \"Reliance of the Traveller\" it is stated that, \"[t]he minimum non-Muslim poll tax is one dinar (n: 4.235 grams of gold) per person (A: per year). The maximum is whatever both sides agree upon.\"\n\nAnn Lambton states that the jizya was to be paid \"in humiliating conditions\". Ennaji and other scholars state that some jurists required the jizya to be paid by each in person, by presenting himself, arriving on foot not horseback, by hand, in order to confirm that he lowers himself to being a subjected one, and willingly pays. According to Mark R. Cohen, the Quran itself does not prescribe humiliating treatment for the dhimmi when paying Jizya, but some later Muslims interpreted it to contain \"an equivocal warrant for debasing the dhimmi (non-Muslim) through a degrading method of remission\". In contrast, the 13th century hadith scholar and Shafi'ite jurist Al-Nawawī, comments on those who would impose a humiliation along with the paying of the jizya, stating, \"As for this aforementioned practice, I know of no sound support for it in this respect, and it is only mentioned by the scholars of Khurasan. The majority of scholars say that the jizya is to be taken with gentleness, as one would receive a debt. The reliably correct opinion is that this practice is invalid and those who devised it should be refuted. It is not related that the Prophet or any of the rightly-guided caliphs did any such thing when collecting the jizya.\" Ibn Qudamah also rejected this practice and noted that Muhammad and the Rashidun caliphs encouraged that jizya be collected with gentleness and kindness.\n\nThe Maliki scholar Al-Qurtubi states, \"their punishment in case of non-payment [of jizya] while they were able [to do so] is permitted; however, if their inability to pay it was clear then it isn't lawful to punish them, since, if one isn't able to pay the jizya, then he is exempted\". According to Abu Yusuf, jurist of the fifth Abbasid Caliph Harun al-Rashid, those who didn't pay jizya should be imprisoned and not be let out of custody until payment; however, the collectors of the jizya were instructed to show leniency and avoid corporal punishment in case of non-payment. If someone had agreed to pay jizya, leaving Muslim territory for enemy land was, in theory, punishable by enslavement if they were ever captured. This punishment did not apply if the person had suffered injustices from Muslims.\n\nFailure to pay the jizya was commonly punished by house arrest and some legal authorities allowed enslavement of dhimmis for non-payment of taxes. In South Asia, for example, seizure of dhimmi families upon their failure to pay annual jizya was one of the two significant sources of slaves sold in the slave markets of Delhi Sultanate and Mughal era.\n\nJizya was considered as one of the basic tax revenue for the early Islamic state along with zakat, kharaj, and others, and was collected by the Bayt al-Mal (public treasury). Holger Weiss states that four-fifths of the \"fay\" revenue, that is jizya and kharaj, goes to the public treasury according to the Shafi'i madhhab, whereas the Hanafi and Maliki madhhabs state that the entire \"fay\" goes to the public treasury.\n\nIn theory, jizya funds were distributed as salaries for officials, pensions to the army and charity. Cahen states, \"But under this pretext it was often paid into the Prince's \"khass\", \"private\" treasury.\" In later times, jizya revenues were commonly allocated to Islamic scholars so that they would not have to accept money from sultans whose wealth came to be regarded as tainted.\n\nSources disagree about expenditure of jizya funds on non-Muslims. Ann Lambton states that non-Muslims had no share in the benefits from the public treasury derived from jizya. In contrast, according to several Muslim scholars, Islamic tradition records a number of episodes in which the second caliph Umar stipulated that needy and infirm dhimmis be supported from the Bayt al-Mal, which some authors hold to be representative of Islam. Evidence of jizya benefitting non-residents and temporary residents of an Islamic state, is found in the treaty Khalid bin al-Walid concluded with the people of Al-Hirah of Iraq, wherein any aged person who was weak, had lost his or her ability to work, fallen ill, or who had been rich but became poor, would be exempt from jiyza and his or livelihood and the livelihood of his or her dependents, who were not living permanently in the Islamic state, would be met by Bayt al-Mal. Hasan Shah states that non-Muslim women, children, indigent, slaves, aren't only exempted from the payment of jizya, but they are also helped by stipends from the public treasury when necessary.\n\nThe history of the origins of the jizya is very complex for the following reasons:\n\nWilliam Montgomery Watt traces its origin to a pre-Islamic practice among the Arabian nomads wherein a powerful tribe would agree to protect its weaker neighbors in exchange for a tribute, which would be refunded if the protection proved ineffectual.\n\nJews and Christians in some southern and eastern areas of the Arabian peninsula began to pay tribute, called \"jizya\", to the Islamic state during Muhammad's lifetime. It was not originally the poll tax it was to become later, but rather an annual percentage of produce and a fixed quantity of goods.\n\nDuring the Tabuk campaign of 630 Muhammad sent letters to four towns in the northern Hejaz and Palestine urging them to relinquish maintenance of a military force and rely on Muslims to ensure their security in return for payment of taxes. Moshe Gil argues that these texts represent the paradigm of letters of security that would be issued by Muslim leaders during the subsequent early conquests, including the use of the word jizya, which would later take on the meaning of poll tax.\n\nJizya received divine sanction in 630 when the term was mentioned in a Quranic verse (9:29). Max Bravmann argues that the Quranic usage of the word jizya develops a pre-Islamic common-law principle which states that reward must necessarily follow a discretional good deed into a principle mandating that the life of all prisoners of war belonging to a certain category must be spared provided they grant the \"reward\" (jizya) to be expected for an act of pardon.\n\nIn 632 jizya in the form of a poll tax was first mentioned in a document reportedly sent by Muhammad to Yemen. W. Montgomery Watt has argued that this document was tampered with by early Muslim historians to reflect a later practice, while Norman Stillman holds it to be authentic.\n\nTaxes levied on local populations in the wake of early Islamic conquests could be of three types, based on whether they were levied on individuals, on the land, or as collective tribute. During the first century of Islamic expansion, the words \"jizya\" and \"kharaj\" were used in all these three senses, with context distinguishing between individual and land taxes (\"kharaj on the head\", \"jizya on land\", and vice versa). In the words of Dennett, \"since we are talking in terms of history, not in terms of philology, the problem is not what the taxes were called, but what we know they were.\" Regional variations in taxation at first reflected the diversity of previous systems. The Sasanian Empire had a general tax on land and a poll tax having several rates based on wealth, with an exemption for aristocracy. In Iraq, which was conquered mainly by force, Arabs controlled taxation through local administrators, keeping the graded poll tax, and likely increasing its rates to 1, 2 and 4 dinars. The aristocracy exemption was assumed by the new Arab-Muslim elite and shared by local aristocracy by means of conversion. The nature of Byzantine taxation remains partly unclear, but it appears to have involved taxes computed in proportion to agricultural production or number of working inhabitants in population centers. In Syria and upper Mesopotamia, which largely surrendered under treaties, taxes were calculated in proportion to the number of inhabitants at a fixed rate (generally 1 dinar per head). They were levied as collective tribute in population centers which preserved their autonomy and as a personal tax on large abandoned estates, often paid by peasants in produce. In post-conquest Egypt, most communities were taxed using a system which combined a land tax with a poll tax of 2 dinars per head. Collection of both was delegated to the community on the condition that the burden be divided among its members in the most equitable manner. In most of Iran and Central Asia local rulers paid a fixed tribute and maintained their autonomy in tax collection, using the Sasanian dual tax system in regions like Khorasan.\n\nDifficulties in tax collection soon appeared. Egyptian Copts, who had been skilled in tax evasion since Roman times, were able to avoid paying the taxes by entering monasteries, which were initially exempt from taxation, or simply by leaving the district where they were registered. This prompted imposition of taxes on monks and introduction of movement controls. In Iraq, many peasants who had fallen behind with their tax payments, converted to Islam and abandoned their land for Arab garrison cities in hope of escaping taxation. Faced with a decline in agriculture and a treasury shortfall, the governor of Iraq al-Hajjaj forced peasant converts to return to their lands and subjected them to the taxes again, effectively forbidding peasants to convert to Islam. In Khorasan, a similar phenomenon forced the native aristocracy to compensate for the shortfall in tax collection out of their own pockets, and they responded by persecuting peasant converts and imposing heavier taxes on poor Muslims.\n\nThe situation where conversion to Islam was penalized in an Islamic state could not last, and the devout Umayyad caliph Umar II has been credited with changing the taxation system. Modern historians doubt this account, although details of the transition to the system of taxation elaborated by Abbasid-era jurists are still unclear. Umar II ordered governors to cease collection of taxes from Muslim converts, but his successors obstructed this policy. Some governors sought to stem the tide of conversions by introducing additional requirements such as undergoing circumcision and the ability to recite passages from the Quran. According to Hoyland, taxation-related grievances of non-Arab Muslims contributed to the opposition movements which resulted in the Abbasid revolution. In contrast, Dennett states that it is incorrect to postulate an economic interpretation of the Abbasid revolution. The notion of an Iranian population staggering under a burden of taxation and ready to revolt at the first opportunity, as imagined by Gerlof van Vloten, \"will not bear the light of careful investigation\", he continues.\n\nUnder the new system that was eventually established, kharaj came to be regarded as a tax levied on the land, regardless of the taxpayer's religion. The poll-tax was no longer levied on Muslims, but treasury did not necessarily suffer and converts did not gain as a result, since they had to pay zakat, which was instituted as a compulsory tax on Muslims around 730. The terminology became specialized during the Abbasid era, so that \"kharaj\" no longer meant anything more than land tax, while the term \"jizya\" was restricted to the poll-tax on dhimmis.\n\nIn India, Islamic rulers imposed \"jizya\" on non-Muslims starting with the 11th century. The taxation practice included \"jizya\" and \"kharaj\" taxes. These terms were sometimes used interchangeably to mean poll tax and collective tribute, or just called \"kharaj-o-jizya\".\n\nJizya expanded with Delhi Sultanate. Alā' al-Dīn Khaljī, a Sultan of the Khalji dynasty who ruled over most of North, West and parts of Eastern India, from 1296 to 1316 AD, legalized the enslavement of the jizya and kharaj defaulters. His officials seized and sold these slaves in growing Sultanate cities where there was a great demand of slave labour. The Muslim court historian Ziauddin Barani recorded that Kazi Mughisuddin of Bayanah advised Alā' al-Dīn that Islam requires imposition of jizya on Hindus, to show contempt and to humiliate the Hindus, and imposing jizya is a religious duty of the Sultan.\n\nDuring the early 14th century reign of Muhammad bin Tughlaq, expensive invasions across India and his order to attack China by sending a portion of his army over the Himalayas, emptied the precious metal in Sultanate's treasury. He ordered minting of coins from base metals with face value of precious metals. This economic experiment failed because Hindus in his Sultanate minted counterfeit coins from base metal in their homes, which they then used for paying jizya. In the late 14th century, mentions the memoir of Tughlaq dynasty's Sultan Firoz Shah Tughlaq, his predecessor taxed all Hindus but had exempted all Hindu Brahmins from jizya; Firoz Shah extended it over all Hindus. He also announced that any Hindus who converted to Islam would become exempt from taxes and jizya as well as receive gifts from him. On those who chose to remain Hindus, he raised jizya tax rate.\n\nIn Kashmir, Sikandar Butshikan levied both jizya and zakat on Hindus. Ahmad Shah (1411-1442), a ruler of Gujarat, introduced the Jizyah in 1414 and collected it with such strictness that many people converted to Islam to evade it. Jizya was abolished by the third Mughal emperor Akbar, in 1564. It was finally abolished in 1579. However, Aurangzeb, the sixth emperor, re-introduced and levied \"jizya\" on non-Muslims in 1679. His goal was to promote Islam and weaken the Hindu religion. Aurangzeb ordered that the collected jizya be used for charitable causes to support the increasing number of impoverished and unemployed Muslim clerics in his empire. Hindus were outraged and numerous small-scale revolts resulted. The jizya rate was more than twice the zakat tax rate paid by Muslims, which led to mass civil protests of 1679 in India. He imposed it on monks and beggars as well. In some areas revolts led to its periodic suspension such as the 1704 AD suspension of jizya in Deccan region of India by Aurangzeb.\n\nAfter the Norman conquest of Sicily, taxes imposed on the Muslim minority were also called the \"jizya\" (locally spelled \"gisia\"). This poll tax was a continuation of the jizya imposed on non-Muslims in Sicily, by Muslim rulers in the 11th century, before the Norman conquest.\n\nJizya collected from Christian and Jewish communities was among the main sources of tax income of the Ottoman treasury. In some regions, such as Lebanon and Egypt, jizya was payable collectively by the Christian or the Jewish community, and was referred to as \"maqtu\" - in these cases the individual rate of jizya tax would vary, as the community would pitch in for those who could not afford to pay.\n\nIn Persia, \"jizya\" was paid by Zoroastrian minority until 1884, when it was removed by pressure on the Qajar government from the Persian Zoroastrian Amelioration Fund.\n\nThe \"jizya\" was eliminated in Algeria and Tunisia in the 19th century, but continued to be collected in Morocco until the first decade of the 20th century (these three dates coincide with the French colonization of these countries).\n\nThe Ottoman Empire abolished the \"jizya\" in 1856. It was replaced with a new tax, which non-Muslims paid in lieu of military service. It was called \"baddal-askari\" (lit. \"military substitution\"), a tax exempting Jews and Christians from military service. The Jews of Kurdistan, according to the scholar Mordechai Zaken, preferred to pay the \"baddal\" tax in order to redeem themselves from military service. Only those incapable of paying the tax were drafted into the army. Zaken says that paying the tax was possible to an extent also during the war and some Jews paid 50 gold liras every year during World War I. According to Zaken, \"in spite of the forceful conscription campaigns, some of the Jews were able to buy their exemption from conscription duty.\" Zaken states that the payment of the \"baddal askari\" during the war was a form of bribe that bought them at most a one-year deferment.\"\n\nThe jizya is no longer imposed by Muslim states. Nevertheless, there have been reports of non-Muslims in areas controlled by the Pakistani Taliban and ISIS being forced to pay the jizya.\n\nIn 2009, it was claimed that a group of militants that referred to themselves as the Taliban imposed the \"jizya\" on Pakistan's minority Sikh community after occupying some of their homes and kidnapping a Sikh leader. In 2014, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) announced that it intended to extract jizya from Christians in the city of Raqqa, Syria, which it controlled. Christians who refused to pay the tax would have to either convert to Islam or die. Wealthy Christians would have to pay the equivalent of USD $664 twice a year; poorer ones would be charged one-fourth that amount. In June, the Institute for the Study of War reported that ISIL claims to have collected the \"fay\", i.e. jizya and kharaj.\n\nThe late Islamic scholar Abul A'la Maududi, of Pakistan, said that Jizya should be re-imposed on non-Muslims in a Muslim nation. Yusuf al-Qaradawi of Egypt also held that position in the mid-1980s, however he later reconsidered his legal opinion on this point, stating: \"[n]owadays, after military conscription has become compulsory for all citizens — Muslims and non-Muslims — there is no longer room for any payment, whether by name of jizya or any other.\" According to Khaled Abou El Fadl, moderate Muslims generally reject the dhimma system, which encompasses jizya, as inappropriate for the age of nation-states and democracies.\n\nSome authors have characterized the complex of land and poll taxes in the pre-Abbasid era and implementation of the jizya poll tax in early modern South Asia as discriminatory and/or oppressive, and the majority of Islamic scholars, amongst whom are Al-Nawawi and Ibn Qudamah, have criticized humiliating aspects of its collection as contrary to Islamic principles. Discriminatory regulations were utilized by many pre-modern polities. However, W. Cleveland and M. Bunton assert that dhimma status represented \"an unusually tolerant attitude for the era and stood in marked contrast to the practices of the Byzantine Empire\". They add that the change from the Byzantine and Persian rule to Arab rule lowered taxes and allowed dhimmis to enjoy a measure of communal autonomy. According to Bernard Lewis, available evidence suggests that the change from Byzantine to Arab rule was \"welcomed by many among the subject peoples, who found the new yoke far lighter than the old, both in taxation and in other matters\".\n\nIra Lapidus writes that the Arab-Muslim conquests followed a general pattern of nomadic conquests of settled regions, whereby conquering peoples became the new military elite and reached a compromise with the old elites by allowing them to retain local political, religious, and financial authority. Peasants, workers, and merchants paid taxes, while members of the old and new elites collected them. Payment of various taxes, the total of which for peasants often reached half of the value of their produce, was not only an economic burden, but also a mark of social inferiority.\n\nNorman Stillman writes that although the tax burden of the Jews under early Islamic rule was comparable to that under previous rulers, Christians of the Byzantine Empire (though not Christians of the Persian empire, whose status was similar to that of the Jews) and Zoroastrians of Iran shouldered a considerably heavier burden in the immediate aftermath of the Arab conquests. He writes that escape from oppressive taxation and social inferiority was a \"great inducement\" to conversion and flight from villages to Arab garrison towns, and many converts to Islam \"were sorely disappointed when they discovered that they were not to be permitted to go from being tribute bearers to pension receivers by the ruling Arab military elite,\" before their numbers forced an overhaul of the economic system in the 8th century.\n\nThe influence of jizya on conversion has been a subject of scholarly debate. Julius Wellhausen held that the poll tax amounted to so little that exemption from it did not constitute sufficient economic motive for conversion. Similarly, Thomas Arnold states that jizya was \"too moderate\" to constitute a burden, \"seeing that it released them from the compulsory military service that was incumbent on their Muslim fellow subjects.\" He further adds that converts escaping taxation would have to pay the legal alms, zakat, that is annually levied on most kinds of movable and immovable property. Other early 20th century scholars suggested that non-Muslims converted to Islam \"en masse\" in order to escape the poll tax, but this theory has been challenged by more recent research. Daniel Dennett has shown that other factors, such as desire to retain social status, had greater influence on this choice in the early Islamic period. According to Halil İnalcık, the wish to avoid paying the jizya was an important incentive for conversion to Islam in the Balkans, though Anton Minkov has argued that it was only one among several motivating factors.\n\nMark R. Cohen writes that despite the humiliating connotations and the financial burden, the jizya paid by Jews under Islamic rule provided a \"surer guarantee of protection from non-Jewish hostility\" than that possessed by Jews in the Latin West, where Jews \"paid numerous and often unreasonably high and arbitrary taxes\" in return for official protection, and where treatment of Jews was governed by charters which new rulers could alter at will upon accession or refuse to renew altogether. The Pact of Umar, which stipulated that Muslims must \"do battle to guard\" the dhimmis and \"put no burden on them greater than they can bear\", was not always upheld, but it remained \"a steadfast cornerstone of Islamic policy\" into early modern times.\n\nYaser Ellethy states that the \"insignificant amount\" of the jizya, as well as its progressive structure and exemptions leave no doubt that it was not imposed to persecute people or force them to convert. Niaz A. Shah states that \"jizya\" is \"partly symbolic and partly commutation for military service. As the amount is insignificant and exemptions are many, the symbolic nature predominates.\" The French polymath Gustave Le Bon wrote \"that despite the fact that the incidence of taxation fell more heavily on a Muslim than a non-Muslim, the non-Muslim was free to enjoy equally well with every Muslim all the privileges afforded to the citizens of the state.\" Muhammad Abdel-Haleem states, \"[t]he jizya is a very clear example of the acceptance of a multiplicity of cultures within the Islamic system, which allowed people of different faiths to live according to their own faiths, all contributing to the well-being of the state, Muslims through \"zakāt\", and the \"ahl al-dhimma\" through \"jizya\".\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16710849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16710849", "title": "Kilpatrick-Beatty criminal trial", "text": "Kilpatrick-Beatty criminal trial\n\nOn March 24, 2008, Wayne County, Michigan Prosecutor Kym Worthy announced a 12-count criminal indictment against Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick and his former Chief of Staff and paramour Christine Beatty. Kilpatrick was charged with eight felonies and Beatty with seven. Charges for both included perjury, misconduct in office and obstruction of justice. Worthy also suggested that others in the Kilpatrick administration could also be charged.\n\nOn December 1, 2008, Beatty admitted lying under oath and was sentenced to 120 days in jail. She began serving the sentence on January 5, 2009.\n\nThe charges stem from a political-sex scandal emerging from a sexual relationship between Detroit Mayor Kilpatrick and his chief of staff Christine Beatty. The revelation of this extra-marital affair was confirmed in text messages exchanged between Kilpatrick and Beatty. The text messages appear to contradict testimony that Kilpatrick and Beatty gave at a trial in 2007 in regards to whether they had an affair and had fired an officer for investigating the mayor's behavior. The City of Detroit settled the lawsuit for $8.4 million based on the recommendation of Kilpatrick and the City of Detroit law department.\n\nThe news led to Beatty resigning in February 2008 and political leaders and citizens calling for Kilpatrick to resign.\n\n\nKilpatrick was charged with a separate eighth count\n\nTo help offset the cost of Kilpatrick's criminal defense team, a fund was set up to raise money. According to Kilpatrick legal team spokesman Christopher Garrett, the fund's membership committee included former mayor of San Francisco, Willie Brown; Detroit native and television personality Judge Greg Mathis; Malik Zulu Shabazz, the leader of the New Black Panthers in Detroit; and S. Martin Taylor, a former DTE executive and a University of Michigan regent. However, within 24 hours Greg Mathis had contacted the media to state that the reports of his support for Kilpatrick were not true. Mathis stated: \"I was contacted Wednesday afternoon [March 26, 2008] by Mayor Kilpatrick. He asked if I could serve on his legal defense committee. I informed him I support due process, but I could not support him. This [false statement of Mathis' support] is the same type of deceit that has plunged our city into a deep crisis... Not only do I not support him, but I recommend he resign so the city can heal and move forward.\"\n"}
{"id": "34214872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34214872", "title": "Mark Cooper (academic)", "text": "Mark Cooper (academic)\n\nMark Cooper is a senior research fellow for economic analysis at the Institute for Energy and the Environment at the Vermont Law School, and a frequent nuclear power industry commentator. Cooper holds a PhD from Yale University and is a former Yale University and Fulbright Fellow. He has provided expert testimony in over 250 cases for public interest clients before state and federal agencies, courts, and legislators in many jurisdictions in the U.S. and Canada. Cooper has published many books and articles on energy, telecommunications and high technology industries. \n\nCooper's 2011 report, \"Nuclear Safety and Nuclear Economics,\" says that past nuclear disasters, such as the 1979 Three Mile Island accident, have tended to \"greatly raise regulatory barriers and have also severely multiplied the cost of reactor construction\". After Three Mile Island, the report said, the cost of nuclear power plant construction doubled in most cases and trebled or quadrupled in some rare circumstances. He says that presently we are witnessing not a nuclear renaissance but a collapse in expectations for new nuclear reactor construction.\n\n"}
{"id": "50743771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50743771", "title": "Ministry of Agriculture (Bangladesh)", "text": "Ministry of Agriculture (Bangladesh)\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture (; \"Kr̥ṣi mantraṇālaẏa\") is a ministry of Bangladesh. The ministry is the apex body for formulation and administration of the rules and regulations and laws relating to Agriculture in Bangladesh.\n\n"}
{"id": "3807552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3807552", "title": "New Nationalist Party (Fiji)", "text": "New Nationalist Party (Fiji)\n\nThe New Nationalist Party was a Fijian political party with a strongly nationalist platform, arguing for the paramountcy of indigenous Fijian interests and of the Christian faith, professed by the great majority of indigenous Fijians but relatively few Indo-Fijians, who comprise some 38 percent of the country's population. The party, a splinter from the Nationalist Vanua Tako Lavo Party, was registered on 1 June 2001 and claimed to be the heir to the legacy of the late Sakeasi Butadroka and the Fiji Nationalist Party.\n\nIn a surprise announcement on 20 January 2006, the party announced that it was dropping its demand for the repatriation of Indo-Fijians to India. Citizens of Indian descent would now be welcome to join the party, said party President Saula Telawa, and to contest the forthcoming election under its banner - provided that they were Christians. Aspiring candidates would need to submit references from a Fijian chief and their local pastor, to prove that they had been born-again Christians for a minimum period of three years, Telawa told the Fiji Sun.\n\nIn January 2013 the military regime promulgated new regulations governing the registration of political parties, requiring all parties to have at least 5,000 members. All existing parties had to re-register under the new regulations. The party was not one of the two to re-register, and as a result was wound up and its assets forfeited to the state.\n"}
{"id": "24021691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24021691", "title": "Noemvriana", "text": "Noemvriana\n\nThe Noemvriana (, \"November Events\") of , or the Greek Vespers, was a political dispute which led to an armed confrontation in Athens between the royalist government of Greece and the forces of the Allies over the issue of Greece's neutrality during World War I.\n\nFriction existed between the two sides from the beginning of World War I. The unconditional surrender of the border fortress of Rupel in May 1916 to the Central Powers' forces, mainly composed of Bulgarian troops, was the first event that led to the Noemvriana. The Allies feared the possibility of a secret pact between the Greek royalist government and the Central Powers. Such an alliance would endanger the Allied army in Macedonia bivouacking around Thessalonica since the end of 1915. Intensive diplomatic negotiations between King Constantine I and Allied diplomats took place throughout the summer. The king wanted Greece to maintain her neutrality, a position that would favor the Central Powers plans in the Balkans while the Allies wanted demobilization of the Greek army and the surrender of war materiel equivalent to what was lost at Fort Rupel as a guarantee of Greece's neutrality. By the end of the summer of 1916, the failure of negotiations, along with the Bulgarian army's advance in eastern Macedonia and the Greek government's orders for the Greek army not to offer resistance, led to a military coup by Venizelist military officers in Thessaloniki with the support of the Allies. The former Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos, who from the very beginning supported the Allies, established a provisional government in northern Greece. He began forming an army to liberate areas lost to Bulgaria, but this effectively split Greece into two entities.\n\nThe inclusion of the Greek army along with Allied forces, as well as the division of Greece, sparked several anti-Allied demonstrations in Athens. In late October, a secret agreement was reached between the king and the Allied diplomats. The pressure from the military advisers forced the king to abandon this agreement. In an attempt to enforce their demands, the Allies landed a small contingent in Athens on . However, it met organized resistance and an armed confrontation took place until a compromise was reached at the end of the day. The day after the Allied contingent evacuated from Athens, a royalist mob began rioting throughout the city, targeting supporters of Venizelos. The rioting continued for three days, and the incident became known as the Noemvriana in Greece, which in the Old Style calendar occurred during the month of November. The incident drove a deep wedge between the Venizelists and the royalists, bringing closer what would become known as the National Schism.\n\nFollowing the Noemvriana, the Allies, determined to remove Constantine I, established a naval blockade to isolate areas which supported the king. After the resignation of the king on 15 June 1917, Greece unified under a new king, Alexander, Constantine I's son, and the leadership of Eleftherios Venizelos. It joined World War I on the side of the Allies. By 1918, the mobilized Greek army provided the numerical superiority the Allies needed on the Macedonian front. The Allied army shortly thereafter defeated the Central Powers forces in the Balkans, followed by the liberation of Serbia and the conclusion of World War I.\n\nGreece emerged victorious after the 1912-1913 Balkan Wars, with her territory almost doubled. The unstable international political climate of the early 20th century placed Greece in a difficult position. The ownership of the Greek occupied eastern Aegean islands was contested by the Ottoman Empire which claimed them as their own. In the north, Bulgaria, defeated in the Second Balkan War, was engineering revanchist strategies against Greece and Serbia. The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria in Sarajevo precipitated Austria-Hungary's declaration of war against Serbia. This caused Germany and Austria-Hungary, and countries allied with Serbia (the Triple Entente) to declare war on each other, starting World War I.\n\nGreece, like Bulgaria, initially maintained neutrality during the conflict. The Greek leadership was divided between the Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos, who supported Great Britain on the side of the Allies and King Constantine who was educated in Germany and married to the Kaiser's sister. The king admired Prussian militarism and was anticipating a quick German victory. The king wanted Greece to remain neutral in the conflict, a strategy favorable to Germany and the Central Powers.\n\nIn early 1915, Britain offered Greece \"territorial concessions in Asia Minor\" if it would participate in the upcoming Gallipoli Campaign. Venizelos supported this idea, while the king and his military advisers opposed it. Dismayed at the king's opposition, the prime minister resigned on 21 February 1915. A few months later, Venizelos' Liberal Party won the May elections, and formed a new government. When Bulgaria mobilized against Serbia in September 1915, Venizelos ordered a Greek counter-mobilization and asked the Anglo-French army to defend Thessaloniki and aid Serbia. The Allies, led by General Maurice Sarrail, began landing on 22 September 1915 and entrenched around the city. The Greek parliament gave Venizelos a vote of confidence to help Serbia, yet the king unconstitutionally dismissed the prime minister along with the parliament. This unlawful order escalated the animosity between the king and Venizelos as well as their loyal followers. The Liberals boycotted the December elections.\n\nOn 9 May 1916, the Chief of the General Staff of the Central Powers, Erich von Falkenhayn informed Athens of the imminent advance of German-Bulgarian forces. In reply, Athens minimized the importance of General Sarrail's movements and requested Falkenhayn to change his strategy. On 23 May, Falkenhayn guaranteed that the territorial integrity of Greece and the rights of its citizens would be respected. On 26 May, despite an official protest by the Greek government, 25,000 Bulgarian soldiers led by German cavalry invaded Greece. The Greek forces at Fort Rupel surrendered. The German Supreme Command was concerned about Allied General Sarrail's movements and Falkenhayn was ordered to occupy strategic positions inside Greek territory, specifically Fort Rupel. Despite the assurances of Falkenhayn, Bulgarian soldiers immediately began to forcibly centralize the Greek population into large cities, namely Serres, Drama and Kavala. German attempts to restrain Bulgarian territorial ambitions were partially successful, yet on 4 September, Kavala was occupied by the Bulgarian army.\n\nThe surrender of Fort Rupel caused the Allies to believe that the German-Bulgarian advance was a result of a secret agreement between Athens and the Central Powers, as they were assured that no Bulgarian force would invade Greek territory. The Allies saw this as a violation of Greek neutrality and a disturbance in the balance of power in the Balkans. The Allied press, especially in France, demanded swift military action against Greece to protect the Allied forces in Macedonia. For Venizelos and his supporters, the surrender of Fort Rupel signaled the loss of Greek Macedonia. On 29 May, Venizelos proposed to Sir Francis Elliot (senior British diplomat in Athens) and Jean Guillemin (senior French diplomat in Athens) that he and General Panagiotis Danglis should establish a provisional government in Thessaloniki to mobilize the Greek army to repel the Bulgarians. Venizelos pledged that the army would not move against the king and the royal family. According to Elliot's report, Venizelos hoped that the \"success of his action and pressure of the public opinion might at the last moment convert His Majesty\". The proposal had French support. However it met with strong opposition from Britain, forcing Venizelos to abandon the plan.\n\nOn 9 June the Allies held a conference in London to examine the reasons behind the quick surrender of Fort Rupel and favored a complete demobilization of the Greek army and navy. King Constantine anticipated the results of the conference and ordered a partial demobilization on 8 June. The tension between the royal government and the Allies continued since 'anti-Allied activities' in Athens were ignored by the Greek Government. On 12–13 June, a mob destroyed Venizelist newspapers: \"Nea Ellas\", \"Patris\", \"Ethnos\", and \"Estia\". The mob proceeded to the British Embassy as police idly stood by without interfering. This incident gave France the political ammunition to persuade Britain that more extreme measures were needed. On 17 June, the London conference decided \"that it was absolutely necessary to do something to bring the king of Greece and his Government to their senses\".\n\nOn 27 August 1916, during a demonstration in Athens, Venizelos explained his disagreements with the king's policies. Venizelos said that the king became a victim of his advisers, whose aims were to destroy the goals of the Goudi revolution. Additionally, Venizelos appealed to the king to pursue a policy of benevolence and true neutrality. Venizelos ended his speech by stating that \"if this proposal does not lead to success then there are other means to protect the country from complete catastrophe\". The king refused to accept any compromise including meeting with a committee sent by Venizelos.\n\nTwo days later, army officers loyal to Venizelos organized a military coup in Thessaloniki and proclaimed the \"Provisional Government of National Defence\". Despite the support of the army, the provisional government was not officially recognized by Venizelos nor the Allied powers. Venizelos criticized this course of action, noting that without the support of the Allied army, the movement would fail immediately. This further polarized the population between the royalists (also known as \"anti-Venizelists\"), and Venizelists. The newly founded separate \"provisional state\" included Northern Greece, Crete and the Aegean Islands. The \"New Lands\", won during the Balkan Wars, broadly supported Venizelos, while the \"Old Greece\" was mostly pro-royalist. Venizelos, Admiral Pavlos Kountouriotis and General Panagiotis Danglis formed a triumvirate provisional government and on 9 October moved to Thessaloniki to assume command of the National Defense. They directed Greek participation in the Allied war effort in direct conflict with the royal wishes in Athens. According to a British diplomat:\n\nFrom the very beginnings, Venizelos continued his appeals to the king to join forces to jointly liberate Macedonia. Venizelos wrote:\n\nVenizelos' moderation did not convince many citizens, even among his own followers. It was only after the end of 1916 and the \"Noemvriana\" that he pushed for a radical solution to end the stalemate.\n\nAfter the creation of the provisional government in Thessaloniki, negotiations between the Allies and king intensified. The Allies wanted further demobilization of the Greek army and the removal of military forces from Thessaly to insure the safety of their troops in Macedonia. The king wanted assurances that the Allies would not officially recognize or support Venizelos' provisional government and guarantees that Greece's integrity and neutrality would be respected. After several unproductive negotiations, on 23 October the king suddenly agreed to some of the demands required by the Allies including the removal of the Greek army from Thessaly. The king also volunteered war materiel and the Greek navy to assist them. In exchange, the king requested French Deputy Paul Bénazet to keep this agreement secret from the Central Powers.\n\nOn 3 November, Vice-admiral du Fournet, commander-in-chief of the allied Mediterrean fleet, used the sinking of two Greek merchant ships by a German submarine, as well as the secret agreement, to demand the surrender of the docked Greek war ships and took command of the Salamis naval arsenal. The Greek government yielded, and on 7 November, the partial disarmament of Greek warships began. The Allies towed away 30 lighter craft. Three weeks later the French took over the Salamis naval base completely, and began using Greek ships operated by French crews.\n\nThe Constantine–Bénazet agreement was short-lived due to Venizelos' military plans as well as pressure exerted by the military in Athens, led by the king, regarding the forced Greek disarmament. Venizelos' action at Katerini met with some disapproval among the Allied circles and among his own associates in Athens. Answering these criticisms Venizelos wrote to A. Diamandidis:\n\nThe Venizelist advance was not an attempt to undermine the king's pact with Bénazet, since it had been planned long before that. The failure of the secret agreement was caused by subversive activities within segments of the royalist government in Athens to paralyze and disrupt the Thessaloniki provisional government.\n\nThe seizure of Greek ships by the Allies, the Katerini incident and the Franco-British violations of Greece's territorial integrity offended the national honor of a segment of \"Old Greece\" and increased the king's popularity. The king refused to honor his secret agreement with Bénazet and soldiers who requested to fight against the Bulgarian occupation were charged with \"desertion to the rebels\". A growing movement amongst the low rank officers within the army, led by Ioannis Metaxas and Sofoklis Dousmanis, were determined to oppose disarmament and any assistance to the Allies.\nDiplomacy failed despite continuing pressure applied by the Allies against Athens. On 24 November, du Fournet presented a 7-day ultimatum demanding the immediate surrender of at least ten Greek mountain artillery batteries. Du Fournet was instructed not to use force to take possession of the batteries. The admiral made a last effort to persuade the king to accept France's demands. He advised the king that he would land an Allied contingent, and occupy certain positions in Athens until all the demands were accepted by Greece. The king said that the citizens of Greece, as well as the army, were against disarmament, and only promised that the Greek forces would not attack the Allies.\n\nDespite the gravity of the situation, both the royalist government and the Allies made no serious effort to reach a diplomatic solution. On 29 November, the royalist government rejected the proposal of the Allies and armed resistance was organized. By 30 November military units and royalist militia (the \"epistratoi\", \"reservists\") from surrounding areas had been recalled and gathered in and around Athens (in total over 20,000 men) and occupied strategic positions, with orders not to fire unless fired upon. The Allied commanders failed in their assessment of the situation, disregarding Greek national pride and determination, causing them to conclude that the Greeks were bluffing. The Allies thought that in the face of a superior force, Greeks would \"bring the cannons on a plater\" (surrender); a viewpoint that Du Fournet also shared.\n\nOn early morning of the Allies landed a 3,000-strong marine force in Piraeus, and headed towards Athens. When the Allied troops reached their designated positions, they found them already occupied by Greek troops. For more than two hours both sides stood facing each other. Some time in the morning, an unknown origin rifle shot was fired and the battle of Athens began. Each side blamed the other for firing first. Once the battle spread throughout the city, the king requested a ceasefire proposing a solution and reach a compromise. Du Fournet, with a small contingent of troops was unprepared to encounter organized Greek resistance, and was already short of supplies, so readily accepted the king's compromise. However, before an agreement was finalized, the battle resumed. The Greek battery from Arditos Hill fired a number of rounds at the entrance of Zappeion where the French admiral had established his headquarters. The Allied squadron from Phaliron responded by bombarding sections of the city, mostly around the Stadium and near the Palace. Discussions soon were resumed and a final compromise was reached. The king compromised to surrender just six artillery batteries camouflaged in the mountains instead of the ten that the Allied Admiral demanded. By late afternoon the battle was finished. The Allies had suffered 194 casualties, dead and wounded, and the Greeks lost 82, not counting civilians. By early morning of 2 December, all Allied forces had been evacuated.\n\nThe role of the Venizelists during the battle has been intensely contested by witnesses and historians. Vice admiral Louis Dartige du Fournet wrote that Venizelists supported the Allies and attacked passing Greek royalist army units. Venizelists participation was allegedly so extensive, that lead Admiral du Fourne wrote in his report that he had been involved in a civil war. The Venizelists continued fighting after the evacuation of the Allied marines until the next day, when they capitulated. The royalists claimed that large caches of weapons and ammunition were found in their strongholds packed in French military containers. Venizelists were led to prison surrounded by a furious mob and supposedly only the royal army escorts saved them from being murdered by the angry citizens. Other historians deny that the Venizelists collaborated with the Allied forces: Pavlos Karolidis, a contemporary royalist historian, argues that no Venizelist attacked their fellow citizens and the only weapons found during the raids on prominent Venizelists' houses were knives.\n\nThe authorities, with the pretext of the events, claimed that the Venelizelists had staged an insurrection with the support of Allied troops and proceeded with the help of the Reservists to extensive arrests and reprisals against the city's Venizelists. The entire operation was led by two generals of the army; troops of the military district of Athens took orders from General K. Kallaris and the soldiers of the active defense were commanded by General A. Papoulas (later commander-in-chief of the Asia Minor expedition). The terror and destruction that followed soon went out of hand, making even the respectable conservative newspaper Politiki Epitheorisis (, Political Review) that at the beginning urged Greek \"justice\" to \"smite mercifully the atrocious conspiracy\" and to purge all followers of the \"archconspirator of Salonika [Venizelos]\", in the end to urge \"prudence\". During the following three days houses and shops of Venizelists were ransacked and 35 people were murdered. Chester says that most of those who were murdered were refugees from Asia Minor. Many hundreds were imprisoned and kept in solitary confinement. Karolidis characterizes the imprisonment of certain prominent Venizelists, such as Emmanuel Benakis (mayor of Athens), as a disgrace. Some authors argue that Benakis was not only arrested and imprisoned but also disrespected and ill-treated. Seligman describes that they were only released 45 days later after a strong demand contained within the Entente ultimatum, which was accepted on 16 January. Opposing reports also exist, e.g. Abbot asserts that during the evacuation of the Allied forces, many \"criminals\" and \"collaborators\" on the payrolls of different Allied spy agencies slipped out of Athens at night after allegedly \"terrorizing the city for nearly a year\". Due to his failure Vice-admiral Dartige du Fournet was relieved of his command.\n\nIn Greece, this incident became known as Noemvriana (November events), using the Old Style calendar, and marked the culmination of the National Schism.\n\nOn , Britain and France officially recognized Venizelos government as the only lawful government of Greece, effectively splitting the country. On , Venizelos' government officially declared war on the Central Powers.\n\nMainwhile in Athens Constantine praised his generals. There were also in circulation various pro-royalist and religious brochures calling Venizelos \"traitor\" and \"Senegalese goat\". A royal warrant for the arrest of Venizelos was issued and the Archbishop of Athens, pressured by the royal house, anathematised the prime minister (a special ceremony with the crowd throwing stones to an effigy of Venizelos).\n\nIn France, the premiership of Aristide Briand, a leading proponent of engaging with Constantine to bring about a reconciliation of the two Greek administrations, was threatened by the events in Athens, leading to the reorganization of the French government. In Britain, Prime Minister H. H. Asquith and foreign minister Sir Edward Grey resigned and were replaced by Lloyd George and Arthur Balfour. The change in the British leadership proved to be particularly important for Greece, since Lloyd George was a known Hellenophile, an admirer of Venizelos and dedicated to resolving the Eastern Question.\n\nThe fall of the Romanovs in Russia (who refused the French proposals for Constantine's removal from the throne), caused France and Great Britain to take more drastic measures against King Constantine. In June they decided to invoke their obligation as \"protecting powers\" and demanded the king's resignation. Charles Jonnart said to Constantine: \"The Germans burned by native town, Arras. I will not hesitate to burn Athens\". Constantine accepted and on 15 June 1917 went into exile. His son Alexander, who was considered to have Allies sympathies, became the new King of Greece instead of Constantine's elder son and crown prince, George. The king's exile was followed by the deportation of many prominent royalist officers and politicians considered pro-Germans, such as Ioannis Metaxas and Dimitrios Gounaris, to France and Italy.\n\nThe course of events paved the way for Venizelos to return to Athens on 29 May 1917. Greece, now unified, officially joined the war on the side of the Allies. The entire Greek army was mobilized (though tensions remained inside the army between supporters of the Constantine and supporters of Venizelos) and began to participate in military operations against the Central Powers on the Macedonian front.\n\nBy the fall of 1918, the Greeks, with over 300,000 soldiers, were the single largest component of the Allied army on the Macedonian front. The Greek army gave the much needed advantage to the Allies that altered the balance between the two sides on the Macedonian front. On 14 September 1918, under the command of French General Franchet d'Esperey, a combined Greek, Serbian, French and British force launched a major offensive against the Bulgarian and German army. After the first serious battle (see battle of Skra) the Bulgarian army gave up their defensive positions and began retreating towards their country. On 29 September, the armistice with Bulgaria was signed by the Allied command. The Allied army pushed north and defeated the remaining German and Austrian forces. By October 1918 the Allied armies had recaptured all of Serbia and were preparing to invade Hungary. The offensive was halted because the Hungarian leadership offered to surrender in November 1918, marking the dissolution of the Austro-Hungarian empire. This ended the First World War since Germany lacked forces to stop the Allies from invading Germany from the south. The participation of the Greek army at the Macedonian front was one of the decisive event of the war, earning Greece a seat at the Paris Peace Conference under Venizelos.\n\n"}
{"id": "6878878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6878878", "title": "OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media", "text": "OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media\n\nThe OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media functions as a watchdog on media developments in all 57 participating member states of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). The representative provides early warning on violations of freedom of expression and promotes full compliance with OSCE principles and commitments regarding freedom of expression and press freedom.\n\nIn cases where serious violations have occurred, the Representative seeks direct contacts with the offending state and other parties involved, assesses the facts and assists in resolving problems. The Representative collects and receives information on the situation of the media from a variety of sources, including participating OSCE States, non-governmental organizations and media organizations. The Representative meets with member Governments.\n\nThe office of the Representative is based in Vienna, Austria, and has a staff of 15.\n\nEach year, they issue a joint declaration calling attention to worldwide free expression concerns.\n\nThe OSCE Representative is one of the four International Mechanisms for Promoting Freedom of Expression. The others are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2696763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2696763", "title": "Operation Colombo", "text": "Operation Colombo\n\nOperation Colombo was an operation undertaken by the DINA (the Chilean secret police) in 1975 to make political dissidents disappear. At least 119 people are alleged to have been abducted and later killed. The magazines published a list of 119 dead political opponents.\n\nOne of these fake magazines, titled \"LEA\", was published by Codex Editorial, a dependent of the Argentine Ministry of Welfare, directed by José López Rega, counselor of Isabel Perón and founder of the Triple A death squad.\n\nChile's former military ruler, Augusto Pinochet, was placed under house arrest in connection with the kidnapping of at least three dissidents by his security services. \n\nJudge Juan Guzmán Tapia asked the Chilean justice to lift Pinochet's immunity after having accumulated proof that he had ordered the DINA to undertake this operation.\n\nIn September 2005, the Chilean Supreme Court decided to lift Pinochet's immunity on this case, charging judge Victor Montiglio of the investigations. In November 2005, prosecutors said that specialists appointed by the court in the Operation Colombo case had concluded that while he suffered from mild dementia, he was fit enough to stand trial. On this occasion, Pinochet met DINA head Manuel Contreras, who held him as responsible of the DINA and, therefore, of operation Colombo, for which both men may be jailed. Raúl Iturriaga, the vice-director of the DINA, has also been indicted in this case.\n\nIn December 2005 it was found that Pinochet was found fit to stand trial. However Pinochet died December 10, 2006, without being judged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34988900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34988900", "title": "Oregon and California Railroad Revested Lands", "text": "Oregon and California Railroad Revested Lands\n\nThe Oregon and California Railroad Revested Lands (commonly known as O&C Lands), are approximately of land located in eighteen counties of western Oregon. Originally granted to the Oregon & California Railroad to build a railroad between Portland, Oregon and San Francisco, California, the land was reconveyed to the United States government by act of Congress in 1916 and is currently managed by the United States Bureau of Land Management.\n\nSince 1916, the 18 counties where the O&C lands are located have received payments from the United States government at 50% share of timber revenue on those lands. Later as compensation for the loss of timber and tax revenue decreased the government added federal revenues. The governments of several of the counties have come to depend upon the O&C land revenue as an important source of income for schools and county services.\n\nThe most recent source of income from the lands, an extension of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000, was last renewed in 2013 but at vastly reduced spending levels, leaving some counties scrambling to find new sources of funding. In late 2013, the United States House of Representatives was considering a bill that would resume the funding and increase timber harvests to provide additional income to the counties.\n\nAs part of the U.S. government's desire to foster settlement and economic development in the western states, in July 1866, Congress passed the Oregon and California Railroad Act. This act made of land available for any company that built a railroad from Portland, Oregon to San Francisco. The land was to be distributed by the state of Oregon in land grants for each mile of track completed. Two companies, both of which named themselves the Oregon Central Railroad, began a competition to build the railroad, one on the west side of the Willamette River and one on the east side. The two lines would eventually merge and reorganize as the Oregon and California Railroad. In 1869, Congress changed how the grants were to be distributed, requiring the railroads to sell land along the line to settlers in parcels at $2.50 per acre. The land was distributed in a checkerboard pattern, with sections laid out for on either side of the rail corridor with the government retaining the alternate sections for future growth.\nBy 1872, the railroad had extended from Portland to Roseburg. Along the way, it created growth in Willamette Valley towns such as Canby, Aurora, and Harrisburg, which emerged as freight and passenger stations, and provided a commercial lifeline to the part of the river valley above Harrisburg where steamships were rarely able to travel. As the railroad made its way into the Umpqua Valley, new townsites such as Drain, Oakland, and Yoncalla were laid out.\n\nPerhaps the most significant aspect of the railroad was that it provided access to Oregon's vast forests for large-scale logging operations. But despite the large number of grants, it was difficult to sell to actual settlers because much of the land was not only heavily forested (chiefly in Douglas-fir and Western Hemlock), but rugged and remote; moreover, the railroads soon realized that the land was much more valuable if sold in larger plots to developers and timber companies. As a result, some individuals posed as settlers to purchase the land at the $2.50 per acre rate and then promptly deeded them back to the railroad, which amassed the smaller plots into larger ones and resold them at a higher price to timber interests.\n\nA scheme to circumvent the settler grants altogether soon emerged. A railroad official hired a surveyor and logger named Stephen A. Douglas Puter to round up people from Portland saloons, and then take them to the land office where they would register for an O&C parcel as a settler, and then promptly resell to the railroad for bundling with other plots and resale to the highest bidder, typically as much as $40 an acre. In 1904, an investigation by \"The Oregonian\" uncovered the scandal, by which time it had grown to such a magnitude that the paper reported that more than 75% of the land sales had violated federal law.\n\nBetween 1904 and 1910, nearly a hundred people were indicted in connection with the fraud, including U.S. Senator John H. Mitchell, U.S. Representatives John N. Williamson and Binger Hermann, and U.S. Attorney\nJohn Hicklin Hall.\n\nAs the land fraud trials reached their conclusion, attention also turned to the Southern Pacific Railroad (which had acquired the O&C in 1887). Not only had the company violated the terms of the grant agreement, but in 1903, declared it was terminating land sales—in violation of the grant agreement—either as a hedge against future increases in land values or to retain the timber profits for itself.\n\nA series of lawsuits between the State of Oregon, the United States government, and the railroads ensued. Another lawsuit was brought by Portland attorney and future U.S. Representative Walter Lafferty on behalf of 18 western Oregon counties, which sued to claim revenue from timber sales on the O&C lands. The cases worked their way up to the United States Supreme Court, which ruled in 1915 in \"Oregon & California R. Co. v. United States\" that despite the violation of grant terms, the railroad had been built and the railroad company should be compensated. In 1916, Congress passed the Chamberlain–Ferris Act, which revested the remaining 2,800,000 acres of land to the United States government, and compensated the railroad at $2.50 per acre from an account, the Oregon and California land grant fund, funded by timber sales from the land. Oregon counties affected by the revestiture of land were also to be compensated from the fund.\n\nThe Chamberlain–Ferris Act did not ease the financial trouble faced by many of the O&C counties; very little timber revenue was actually generated from the land, and many counties now had large percentages of their land owned by the federal government, denying them a source of property tax revenue. As these problems compounded into the 1920s, the 18 counties organized the Association of O&C Counties (AOCC) to give itself a voice in Washington, D.C.. One of its cofounders, Douglas County district attorney and future U.S. Senator Guy Cordon, began lobbying Oregon's congressional delegation for relief. In 1926, a bill introduced by Oregon Senator Robert N. Stanfield, which became known as the Stanfield Act, was passed. This law provided that the U.S. government pay the counties in lieu of property taxes they would have received if the land were privately owned. But since the U.S. government was to be reimbursed from timber revenues, and since timber revenue remained low, very few payments were actually made to the counties, and Congress began to work on new legislation.\n\nIn 1937, Congress again sought to ensure federal funding for the 18 O&C counties. The Oregon and California Revested Lands Sustained Yield Management Act of 1937 (), commonly referred as the O&C Act, directed the United States Department of the Interior to harvest timber from the O&C lands (as well as the Coos Bay Wagon Road Lands) on a sustained yield basis. The legislation returned 50 percent of timber sales receipts to the counties, and 25 percent to the U.S. Treasury to reimburse the federal government for payments made to the counties prior to establishment of the Act. The law specifically provided that the lands be managed, including reforestation and protection of watershed, to ensure a permanent source of timber, and therefore, revenue to the counties.\n\nUnder the O&C Act, the Department of the Interior under its General Land Office and later succeeded by the Bureau of Land Management, managed more than 44 billion board feet of standing inventory in 1937 into more than 60 billion board feet by the mid-1990s, and harvested more than 44 billion board feet over that time period. In 1951, the U.S. Treasury had been fully reimbursed, and the 25 percent of the revenue that had previously gone to the Treasury now reverted to the counties; in 1953, the counties opted to divert that money to maintenance of the land and roads, reforestation, as well as recreational facilities and other improvements. A 1970 GAO report contained an estimate that from its implementation through 1969, the counties had received a total of $300 million as a result of the Act. The authors of the report also estimated that most counties received more from the government payments than they would have if the land had been held privately.\n\nThe O&C Act achieved what the previous legislation had failed to do: provide a stable revenue to the counties. This revenue became a vital part of the budgets of the O&C counties, paying for county-provided services such as law enforcement and corrections and health and social services. With this funding seemingly guaranteed, the counties kept other taxes much lower than other counties in the state, increasing their dependence on the timber payments. For example, the property tax in Curry County is 60 cents per $1,000 of assessed value, far below the state average of $2.81 per $1000.\n\nIn 1989, annual timber harvest revenue on federal forest land nationwide peaked at $1.5 billion. Following that year, the impact of overharvesting and increased environmental concerns began to negatively impact timber sales on the O&C lands. In 1994, the federal Northwest Forest Plan was implemented. Designed to guide forest management of federal lands while protecting old-growth forest habitat for endangered species such as the Northern spotted owl, the plan restricted the land available for timber harvest. By 1998, revenue on federal forest lands fell to a third of the peak 1989 revenue, with areas in the Northwest particularly hard-hit.\n\nTo offset the effects of the loss of timber revenue, in 1993, President Bill Clinton proposed a 10-year program of payments, set at 85 percent of the average O&C Act payments from 1986 to 1990, and declining 3 percent annually. These \"spotted owl\" or \"safety net\" payments were passed by Congress as part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 ().\n\nWith the payments set to expire in 2003, work began in 1999 to seek an extension to the payments. The O&C counties joined with other rural counties (including 15 of Oregon's other 18 counties) that also faced falling timber revenues to lobby Congress for another solution. In 2000, Congress passed the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act (), which authorizes western counties, including the O&C counties, to receive federal payments to compensate for loss of timber revenue until 2006. Payments to O&C counties, which included O&C revenue as well as revenue on Forest Service land, averaged about $250 million per year from 2000 to 2006. The act was extended for one year in 2007, and in 2008, a four-year extension was included in the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 that phased out the program by 2012. The extension expired on September 30, 2011 and the final payment of just over $40 million was delivered to the O&C counties in early 2012.\n\nIn late 2011, Oregon Senators Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley proposed legislation to extend the payments for another five years. The move was backed by Governor John Kitzhaber and the entire Oregon congressional delegation. Republican and Democratic members of Oregon's congressional delegation also proposed setting aside some of the federal land in Oregon as public trusts in which half would be designated for harvest to provide revenue for the counties, and half designated as a conservation area. President Barack Obama's proposed 2013 United States federal budget included $294 million to extend the program for fiscal year 2013 with a plan to continue the payments for four more years, with the amount declining 10% each year.\n\nIn March 2012, the U.S. Senate added an amendment to the surface transportation bill that authorized a one-year extension to the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. Oregon counties would have received a total of $102 million from the legislation in 2012, to be divided among all 33 counties that currently receive payments. In 2008, Oregon received $250 million from the program. The full transportation bill, including the amendment, passed the Senate by a 74–22 vote, but the U.S. House of Representatives refused to vote on the Senate bill, instead passing a three-month extension to the current transportation bill that did not contain a county payments extension. In July 2012, the Secure Rural Schools Act renewal amendment was included in the transportation bill approved by Congress and signed by the President. This was widely expected to be the last renewal of the program, but in September 2013, Congress passed another one-year extension to the program, though again at reduced levels.\n\nWith future revenue uncertain, several Oregon counties now face a severe financial crisis to pay for county services, including law enforcement, social services, justice and corrections systems, election services and road maintenance among others. With county services required by state law and bankruptcy not permitted, counties have considered merging to save costs, and explored new sources of revenue.\n\nOne of the hardest-hit counties, Curry County, introduced a ballot measure to add a 3% sales tax to pay for county services. Oregon is one of only five states in the United States with no county or state sales tax, and the tax has been voted down regularly by voters whenever it has been proposed (though some areas assess a gas tax, and two cities in tourist areas, Ashland and Yachats, assess a local tax on prepared food). In Josephine County, after a proposed property tax increase to pay for law enforcement was defeated in May 2012, the sheriff's office reduced its staff by 2/3 and released inmates from the county jail to reduce spending. Lane County released 96 prisoners from its prisons and laid off 40 law enforcement personnel to cut costs.\n\nIn 2012, the Oregon Legislative Assembly passed a law to allow O&C counties to use timber funds previously reserved for road maintenance to pay for law enforcement patrols.\n\nIn late 2013, the House passed a forest management bill co-sponsored by Oregon Representatives Peter DeFazio, Greg Walden, and Kurt Schrader that would include increased timber harvests on O&C lands along with resumption of some Secure Rural Schools funding. President Obama has indicated he is likely to veto the bill.\n"}
{"id": "358230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=358230", "title": "Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act", "text": "Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act\n\nThe Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act of 2003 (, , PBA Ban) is a United States law prohibiting a form of late termination of pregnancy called \"partial-birth abortion,\" referred to in medical literature by as intact dilation and extraction. Under this law, any physician \"who, in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, knowingly performs a partial-birth abortion and thereby kills a human fetus shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 2 years, or both.\" The law was enacted in 2003, and in 2007 its constitutionality was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court in the case of \"Gonzales v. Carhart\".\n\nThis statute prohibits a method of abortion; the statute calls the prohibited method \"partial birth abortion.\" The procedure described in the statute is usually used in the second trimester, from 15 to 26 weeks of which occur before viability. The law itself contains no reference to gestational age or viability. The present statute is directed only at a method of abortion, rather than at preventing any woman from obtaining an abortion.\n\nThe statute includes two findings of Congress:\n\nThe statute also provides that:\n\nHadley Arkes commented, in an editorial in the \"National Review\", \"[t]hat provision went even further than the law was obliged to go, for as the American Medical Association testified during the hearings, a partial-birth abortion bore no relevance to any measure needed to advance the health of any woman.\"\n\nCiting the Supreme Court case of \"Doe v. Bolton\" (1973), some pro-life supporters have asserted that the word \"health\" would render any legal restriction meaningless, because of the broad and vague interpretation of \"health\". This was of particular concern when it came to anticipated arguments that such a definition would encompass \"mental health\", which some thought would inevitably be expanded by court decisions to include the prevention of depression or other non-physical conditions. Pro-choice groups object to this statute primarily because there is no exemption if the health of a woman is at risk.\n\nThe phrase partial-birth abortion was first coined by Douglas Johnson of the National Right to Life Committee. The phrase has been used in numerous state and federal bills and laws, although the legal definition of the term is not always the same. The Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act defines \"partial-birth abortion\" as follows:\n\nIn the 2000 Supreme Court case of \"Stenberg v. Carhart\", a Nebraska law banning partial-birth abortion was ruled unconstitutional, in part because the language defining \"partial-birth abortion\" was deemed vague. In 2006, the Supreme Court in \"Gonzales v. Carhart\" found that the 2003 act \"departs in material ways\" from the Nebraska law and that it pertains only to a specific abortion procedure, intact dilation and extraction. Some commentators have noted that the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act's language was carefully crafted to take into account previous rulings. Although in most cases the procedure legally defined as \"partial birth abortion\" would be medically defined as \"intact dilation and extraction\", these overlapping terms do not always coincide. For example, the IDX procedure may be used to remove a deceased fetus (e.g. due to a miscarriage or feticide) that is developed enough to require dilation of the cervix for its extraction. Removing a dead fetus does not meet the federal legal definition of \"partial-birth abortion,\" which specifies that partial live delivery must precede \"the overt act, other than completion of delivery, that kills the partially delivered living fetus.\" Additionally, a doctor may extract a fetus past the navel and then \"disarticulate [i.e. decapitate] at the neck\", which could fall within the terms of the statute even though it would not result in an intact body and therefore would not be an intact dilation and extraction.\n\nThe Republican-led Congress first passed similar laws banning partial-birth abortion in December 1995, and again October 1997, but they were vetoed by President Bill Clinton.\n\nIn the House, the final legislation was supported in 2003 by 218 Republicans and 63 Democrats. It was opposed by 4 Republicans, 137 Democrats, and 1 independent. Twelve members were absent, 7 Republicans and 5 Democrats. In the Senate the bill was supported by 47 Republicans and 17 Democrats. It was opposed by 3 Republicans, 30 Democrats, and 1 independent. Two Senators were absent, Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), a supporter of the bill, and John Edwards (D-NC), an opponent of the bill.\n\nThe only substantive difference between the House and Senate versions was the Harkin Amendment expressing support for \"Roe v. Wade\". A House–Senate conference committee deleted the Harkin Amendment, which therefore is absent from the final legislation. On November 5, 2003, after being passed by both the House and the Senate, the bill was signed by President George W. Bush to become law.\n\nThe constitutionality of the law was challenged immediately after the signing. Three different U.S. district courts declared the law unconstitutional. All three cited the law's omission of an exception for the health of the woman (as opposed to the life of the woman), and all three decisions cited precedent set by \"Roe v. Wade\" (1973) and \"Stenberg v. Carhart\" (2000). The federal government appealed the district court rulings, which were then affirmed by three courts of appeals. The Supreme Court agreed to hear the \"Carhart\" case on February 21, 2006, and agreed to hear the companion \"Planned Parenthood\" case on June 19, 2006.\n\nOn April 18, 2007 the Supreme Court in a 5–4 decision, \"Gonzales v. Carhart\", held that the statute does not violate the Constitution. Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote for the majority which included Justices Samuel Alito, Clarence Thomas, Antonin Scalia, and Chief Justice John Roberts. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote the dissent which was joined by Stephen Breyer, David Souter, and John Paul Stevens. Kennedy's majority opinion argued that the case differed from \"Stenberg v. Carhart\", a 2000 case in which the Supreme Court struck down a state ban on partial-birth abortion as unconstitutional, in that the Partial Birth Abortion Act defined the banned procedure more clearly. In dissent, Ginsburg argued that the decision departed from established abortion jurisprudence, and that lack of a health exception \"jeopardizes women’s health and places doctors in an untenable position.\" The replacement of O'Connor by Alito was identified as a key difference between the 5–4 decision against the Nebraska law in \"Stenberg\" and the 5-4 support for the abortion ban in \"Gonzales\".\n\nA Rasmussen Reports poll four days after the court's decision found that 40% of respondents \"knew the ruling allowed states to place some restrictions on specific abortion procedures.\" Of those who knew of the decision, 56% agreed with the decision and 32% were opposed. An ABC poll from 2003 found that 62% of respondents thought partial-birth abortion should be illegal; a similar number of respondents wanted an exception \"if it would prevent a serious threat to the woman's health.\" Additional polls from 2003 found between 47–70% in favor of banning partial-birth abortions and between 25–40% opposed.\n\nIn response to this statute, many abortion providers have adopted the practice of inducing fetal demise before beginning late-term abortions. Typically, a solution of potassium chloride or digoxin is injected directly into the fetal heart using ultrasound to guide the needle. This is often done by providers who do not perform intact dilation and extraction procedures (as well as by those who do) because they feel the broad wording of the ban compels them \"to do all they can to protect themselves and their staff from the possibility of being accused.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1096172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096172", "title": "Provincial Treasurer", "text": "Provincial Treasurer\n\nIn Canadian politics the Provincial Treasurer is a senior portfolio in the Executive Council (or cabinet) of provincial governments. The position is the provincial equivalent of the Minister of Finance and is responsible for setting the provincial budget. In most provinces the title of the position has changed to Minister of Finance in recent years. \n\n\"See also\"\n"}
{"id": "23442464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23442464", "title": "Putaani Party", "text": "Putaani Party\n\nPutaani Party (Kannada: ಪುಟಾಣಿ ಪಾರ್ಟಿ, English: The Kid Gang) is a 2009 Kannada language feature film. Produced by Children's Film Society, India, the film was shot in a village called Honnapura situated near the town of Dharwad in South India. The film uses local actors, most of them first timers who are new to the medium of films. The film has a particular dialect of Kannada that is spoken by a few in that part of India.\n\nThis film has been scripted and directed by Ramchandra PN, a graduate of the Film and Television Institute of India, Pune. His earlier film \"Suddha\" had won the best Indian film at the Osian's Cinefan Festival of Asian Films, New Delhi, 2007. \"Putaani Party\" is his second feature film and his first in Kannada language.\n\nA Gram Panchayat (village governing body) in rural India facilitates the functioning of the Makkala Samiti (Children’s Committee) – a children’s body elected by the children themselves.\n\nThe committee acts as a pressure group in trying to get the local governance react to various social issues that it raises. Guided by a sympathetic school teacher, the children’s honesty and persistency ruffles many feathers among the adults, some of whom have been using the ‘Makkala Samiti’ for their own needs.\n\nWhat follows is a subtle cat and mouse game, by the end of which the children hope to get their voice heard.\n\nThe film subtly speaks about the Children's rights to self governance and the pathetic attitude we adults have towards this issue.\n\nThe film has won the Swarna Kamal (Golden Lotus) for the 57th National Film Award for Best Children's Film for the year 2009 constituted by the Government of India.\n\n\n(Source: Upperstall.com)\n\n\"Putaani Party\" was dragged into a controversy that was not of its own making, when one jury member of the National Film Awards revealed some bit of the jury deliberations to the press in Kerala. He claimed that Kesu the joint winner of the award was based on one of his earlier films, but claimed responsibility for Kesu jointly getting the award. Also, the jury member revealed that because no single film deserved the National Award for Best Children's Film, it was given to two films.\n\n"}
{"id": "732260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732260", "title": "Religious segregation", "text": "Religious segregation\n\nReligious segregation is the separation of people according to their religion. The term has been applied to cases of religious-based segregation occurring as a social phenomenon, as well as to segregation arising from laws, whether explicit or implicit.\n\nThe similar term religious apartheid has also been used for situations where people are separated based on religion, including sociological phenomena.\n\nIn Northern Ireland religious segregation has been a voluntary phenomenon which increased in many areas, particularly in the capital city of Belfast and Derry. This trend inceased since the Troubles, a protracted series of conflicts and tensions between Roman Catholics and Protestants from the 1960s to the late 1990s. Segregation does not occur everywhere. State schools are non-denominational, but many Roman Catholics send their children to Roman Catholic Maintained Schools.\n\nIn government housing, most people will choose to be housed within their own communities. This segregation is most common with lower income people in larger towns and cities, and where there has been heightened levels of violence.\n\nIn 2012 \"Foreign Policy\" reported: \n\nShi'a Islam has been the state religion of Iran since the Iranian Revolution in 1979. While Judaism, Christianity, and Zoroastrianism are officially recognized and legally protected religious minorities, they are not allowed to evangelize or allow Muslim Iranians to convert to their faiths. The U.S. State Department has claimed that religious minorities have been subject to harassment and religious persecution.\n\nOther religious minorities like the Bahá'í are not recognized by the government and thus do not have any legal protections nor the constitutional right to practice their religion. The Muslim Network for Bahá'í Rights has reported cases of Bahá'í students being expelled from university due to their religion.\nAccording to the Times Higher Education, Bahá'í educators are required to renounce their faith in order to teach in Iranian universities. Due to its heterodox beliefs, the Bahá'í faith is officially considered a heretical movement\nbecause of the Bahá'í belief that Bahá'u'lláh is a divinely ordained prophet in contradiction of the Qur'an, which asserts that Muhammad is the last and final messenger sent to mankind .\n\nPakistan is officially an Islamic country and defines who and who is not a Muslim. Under these conditions, Ahmadi Muslims are declared non-Muslim by law of the land and cannot practice their faith freely. They are not permitted to call their mosques as mosques, or meet with people with the Islamic greeting of Peace. Ahmadi Muslims are excluded from government and any other high-profile positions within Pakistan. There have been cases when the Ahmadi Muslims have been expelled from schools, colleges and universities, for being Ahmadi Muslim. Once the entire population of Rabwah, the Pakistani headquarters of Ahmadi Muslims was charged under Anti-Ahmadiyya laws.\n\nPrior to March 1, 2004, the official Saudi government website stated that Jews were forbidden from entering the country, however, it was not enforced into practice.\n\nIn the City of Mecca, only Muslims are allowed. Non-Muslims may not enter or travel through Mecca; attempting to enter Mecca as a non-Muslim can result in penalties such as a fine; being in Mecca as a non-Muslim can result in deportation.\n\nIn the City of Medina, both Muslims and Non-Muslims are allowed in. The exception are non-Muslims entering the Nabawi Square, where the Al-Masjid Al-Nabawi is located.\n\nOn the banks of the Bagmati River in Kathmandu, Nepal is a Pashupatinath Temple dedicated to Pashupatinath. This temple complex which is on the UNESCO World Heritage Sites's list since 1979 was erected anew in the 15th century by King kirat Yalamber.\n\nEntry into the inner courtyard is strictly monitored by the temple security, which is selective of who is allowed inside. Practicing Hindus and Buddhists of Indian and Tibetan descendant are only allowed into temple courtyard. Practicing Hindus of western descent are not allowed into the temple complex along with other non Hindu visitors. Others can look at the main temple from adjacent side of the river.\n\nThe debate over the ban on non-Hindus entering Hindu temples began around 30 years ago when singer Yesudas, who planned to take part in a music programme, was stopped at the Guruvayur temple gate. He finally had to sing bhajans outside the temple wall. Though several temples in Kerala have signs saying that non-Hindus are denied entry, few of them enforce it as strictly as the Guruvayur temple, which insists on following its distinct traditions.'Only Orthodox Hindus are allowed’, reads a signboard hanging from the Lion's Gate of the Sri Jagannath Temple in Puri. The issue has triggered many a controversy in the past and continues to arouse strong feelings even today.\n\nThe temple is an important pilgrimage destination for many Hindu traditions and part of the Char Dham pilgrimages that a Hindu is expected to make in one's lifetime.\n\nIn the past a number of dignitaries, including former prime minister Indira Gandhi, had not been allowed to enter the 12th century shrine because she had married a Parsi, Feroze Gandhi. In 2005, the Queen of Thailand Mahachakri Siridharan was not allowed inside the temple as she was a follower of Buddhism.\n\nIn 2006, the shrine did not allow a citizen of Switzerland named Elizabeth Jigler, who had donated 17.8 million Indian Rupees to the temple because she was a Christian.\nKashi Vishvanath In Varanasi\nLocated in Varanasi, the temple stands on the western bank of the holy river Ganga, and is one of the twelve Jyotirlingas, the holiest of Shiva temples. The most famous of the many temples in Varanasi is the one dedicated to Vishveswara -- Shiva as lord of the universe. \nNon-Hindus are not allowed inside the temple, although this is not always enforced. On the northern side of Vishwanath Temple is the Gyan Kupor well. Non-Hindus are strictly not allowed to enter here.\n\nThe 2012 Rakhine State riots are a series of ongoing conflicts between Rohingya Muslims and ethnic Rakhine in northern Rakhine State, Myanmar. The riots came after weeks of sectarian disputes and have been condemned by most people on both sides of the conflict.\nThe immediate cause of the riots is unclear, with many commentators citing the killing of ten Burmese Muslims by ethnic Rakhine after the rape and murder of a Rakhine woman as the main cause.\n\nWhole villages have been \"decimated\". Over three hundred houses and a number of public buildings have been razed. According to Tun Khin, the President of the Burmese Rohingya Organisation UK (BROUK), as of 28 June 650 Rohingyas have been killed, 1,200 are missing, and more than 80,000 have been displaced. According to the Myanmar authorities, the violence, between ethnic Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, left 78 people dead, 87 injured, and thousands of homes destroyed. It also displaced more than 52,000 people.\n\nThe government has responded by imposing curfews and by deploying troops in the region. On 10 June 2012, a state of emergency was declared in Rakhine, allowing the military to participate in the administration of the region. The Burmese army and police have been accused of targeting Rohingya Muslims through mass arrests and arbitrary violence. A number of monks' organisations that played a vital role in Burma's struggle for democracy have taken measures to block any humanitarian assistance to the Rohingya community.\nIn July 2012, the Myanmar Government did not include the Rohingya minority group–-classified as stateless Bengali Muslims from Bangladesh since 1982—on the government's list of more than 130 ethnic races and therefore the government says that they have no claim to Myanmar citizenship.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, the Muslim Rohingya people have continued to suffer from human rights violations under the Burmese junta since 1978, and many have fled to neighbouring Bangladesh as a result.\n\nAs of 2005, the UNHCR (United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees) had been assisting with the repatriation of Rohingya from Bangladesh, but allegations of human rights abuses in the refugee camps have threatened this effort.\n\nDespite earlier efforts by the UN, the vast majority of Rohingya refugees have remained in Bangladesh, unable to return because of the regime in Myanmar. Now they face problems in Bangladesh where they do not receive support from the government. In February 2009, many Rohingya refugees were helped by Acehnese sailors in the Strait of Malacca, after 21 days at sea.\n\nOver the years thousands of Rohingya also have fled to Thailand. There are roughly 111,000 refugees housed in nine camps along the Thai-Myanmar border. There have been charges that groups of them have been shipped and towed out to open sea from Thailand, and left there. In February 2009, there was evidence of the Thai army towing a boatload of 190 Rohingya refugees out to sea. A group of refugees rescued by Indonesian authorities also in February 2009 told harrowing stories of being captured and beaten by the Thai military, and then abandoned at open sea. By the end of February, there were reports that of a group of five boats were towed out to open sea, of which four boats sank in a storm, and one washed up on the shore. February 12, 2009 Thailand's prime minister Abhisit Vejjajiva said there were \"some instances\" in which Rohingya people were pushed out to sea.\n\"There are attempts, I think, to let these people drift to other shores. [...] when these practices do occur, it is done on the understanding that there is enough food and water supplied. [...] It's not clear whose work it is [...] but if I have the evidence who exactly did this I will bring them to account.\" \n"}
{"id": "39341559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39341559", "title": "Scottish Housing Regulator", "text": "Scottish Housing Regulator\n\nThe Scottish Housing Regulator (SHR) is an independent Non-Ministerial Department, directly accountable to the Scottish Parliament. The body was established on 1 April 2011 under the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010. SHR is the successor to the previous Scottish Housing Regulator agency, which exercised Scottish Ministers' powers under the Housing (Scotland) Act 2001.\n\nThe statutory objective of SHR is to:\n\nSHR regulates social landlords to protect the interests of people who receive services from them. SHR does this by assessing and reporting on; how social landlords are performing their housing services, RSLs’ financial well-being and RSLs' standards of governance and where necessary SHR will intervene to secure improvements.\n\nSHR also keeps a Register of all the RSLs in Scotland. The register holds information about each landlord including their contact details and their regulation plans.\n\nIn June 2015 SHR won two awards for its IT systems in recognition of its efforts to make information available to tenants to allow them to hold their landlords to account.\n\n"}
{"id": "6283583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6283583", "title": "Security Battalions", "text": "Security Battalions\n\nThe Security Battalions (, derisively known as \"Germanotsoliades\" (Γερμανοτσολιάδες) or \"Tagmatasfalites\" (Ταγματασφαλίτες) were Greek collaborationist military groups, formed during the Axis occupation of Greece during World War II in order to support the German occupation troops.\n\nThe Battalions were founded in 1943 by the quisling government of Ioannis Rallis. They were supported by the extreme right and Nazi sympathisers, but also by some centrist politicians who were concerned about the dominance of ELAS (the military arm of the communist-dominated National Liberation Front EAM) as the main body of the Greek resistance. Among the members of the Security Battalions one could find ex-army officers, forcefully conscripted soldiers, conservatives, landowners, extreme-right radicals and social outcasts, as well as opportunists who believed the Axis would win the war. The core of the Battalions consisted of men of the Royal Guard (Evzones, so the name \"tsoliádes\").\n\nThe main role of the Security Battalions was to fight against ELAS. Their aggregate force was at most 22,000 men, divided into 9 'evzonic' and 22 'voluntary' battalions, under the command of SS Lieutenant-General Walter Schimana. Although the plan was to expand them all over the occupied Greek territories, their main theater of action was in eastern Central Greece and Peloponnese. At that time, ELAS had already gained control over 1/3 of continental Greece. They remained faithful to the Germans even when the occupation was crumbling. Their last mission was to engage in combat against ELAS and keep them away from the main routes, in order to secure the safe exit of the German troops from Greece.\n\nWhat the Greek people hated about the Battalions, even more than their collaborationist nature, was the total lack of control over their members. For example after a battle in the hamlet of Attali in Evvia the collaborationists pillaged the houses of the village, taking away 1,000 oka of oil, five sewing machines, 200 ok of cheese and 30 complete trousseaus. 60 mules were needed to carry away the loot. By the end of the occupation their name was synonymous with arbitrary violence and frightful cruelty.\n\nDuring the war, the Allied-oriented government in exile and the main resistance organizations in Greece decried the Security Battalions for treason multiple times. On the eve of the liberation, several battles took place between the Battalions and ELAS; the best known being the Battle of Meligalas in September 1944.\n\nAfter the liberation, the groups were only temporarily disbanded, and were recruited into the Gendarmerie to fight alongside the British and government forces against the EAM/ELAS in the battle of Dekemvriana, in Athens. In total, very few of their members were tried and convicted of collaborationism. For instance, their creator and quisling Prime Minister of Greece, Rallis, was sentenced to life imprisonment for treason and died in prison in 1946, but he was acquitted for his involvement with the Security Battalions.\n\nAfter the defeat of the EAM in Dekemvriana, the members continued to hunt down left, communist and anti-royalist civilians during the white terror period that ensued after the Varkiza Agreement that dismantled ELAS. Many ex-members continued carrying out atrocities against the DSE during the Greek Civil War. After the Civil War, and during the persecution of the communists during the 1950s and '60s in Greece, many of the brutal military personnel of the exile islands accused of tortures were ex-members of the security Battalions. Finally, the leader of the Greek junta of the 1970s, Georgios Papadopoulos had also been accused of being a member of the Security Battalions, but without definite proof.\n\nSome members of the Security Battalions were recognized during the Greek military junta of 1967-74 by law as \"resistance fighters against the Axis\", but this decision was cancelled after the fall of the regime.\n\nAccording to uncertain references, recruits to the Security battalion were under the following oath:\n\nHowever, it is reported that Rallis in the negotiations for the founding of such militia unit on the side of the Nazi occupation forces, refused to accept this oath as \"Greek military forces can't put their legions to a foreign government\" It is unknown whether Rallis' views were taken into account by German officials.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23619868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23619868", "title": "Shai Dromi", "text": "Shai Dromi\n\nShai Dromi (), born 1959, is an Israeli farmer who, in an act of self-defense, shot and killed a intruder and wounded another on 13 January 2007 at 3 am after discovering his dog had been poisoned, allegedly by four intruders. On 15 July 2009, he was acquitted of manslaughter but convicted on charges of illegal possession of weapons. The rifle he had used belonged to his father and not registered in Dromi's name.\n\nDromi's farm is near Meitar in southern Israel, an area plagued by property theft. In the months leading up to the incident, several other dogs had been killed and a tractor and horse stolen.\n\nDromi testified at his trial: \n“I awoke at 3 AM to the barking of the guard dog that I acquired after my dogs were poisoned. Even though I was incredibly tired, I got out of bed and walked around the house. After I went back to bed, I again heard the dog barking irregularly. I went out with my weapon and didn’t see anything. I kept walking around [the perimeter of my] sheep pen, and noticed large metal wire-cutters. I panicked. I realized there were men around me.\" \n\nWhen police arrived, Dromi was administering first aid to the intruder, a Bedouin, Khaled el-Atrash, who later died. Dromi was arrested and imprisoned for a month and later restrained from returning to his farm afterwards requiring volunteers to continue its maintenance.\n\nA public uproar drew much attention to Dromi's plight and a law was proposed by Member of Knesset Yisrael Katz and later passed by a large majority in the Knesset. The law, commonly known as the 'Dromi Law', considers opposition to intruders as self-defence and modified the criminal law to allow repelling intruders from a house or agricultural facility if they had a criminal intent. Section 99 defined any criminal intrusion into a house as life-threatening, and classified that one does not need to retreat but section 98 defined that the law does not apply if one caused the intruders to enter the house. \n\n"}
{"id": "45288158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45288158", "title": "Social Encounter Party", "text": "Social Encounter Party\n\nSocial Encounter Party (, PES) was a Mexican conservative political party established on the national level in 2014 and dissolved in 2018. It is part of the coalition \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" with the National Regeneration Movement and Mexico's Labor Party for the 2018 Mexican election.\n\nThe Social Encounter Party was founded in 2006 by Dr. Hugo Eric Flores Cervantes, a pastor of a Neo-Pentecostal church that supported Felipe Calderón in the 2006 presidential election. It had previously been a \"national political grouping\", which does not receive public funding. The party made many of its early successes in the state of Baja California. In 2007, it supported the successful candidacy of José Guadalupe Osuna Millán of the PAN, but in 2013, it allied with the PRI in Baja California instead, which led it to elect a state deputy to a district in Tecate and four council members in Tijuana.\n\nIn July 2014, it obtained federal registry. After doing so, eight of its nine political assemblies were nullified, as bribes were given to attendees.\n\nThe party is primarily composed of evangelical Christians, though it has declared itself as \"not religious\" in character.\n\nThe 2015 legislative elections was the first election where PES participated at a federal level. It managed to obtain eight proportional representation seats in the Chamber of Deputies as a result of obtaining 3.3 percent of the vote.\n\nThe 2018 Mexican general election was the first general election where the PES participated with a candidate aspiring for the presidency, as the party formed a coalition with left-wing National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) and Labor Party (PT). The parties nominated Andrés Manuel López Obrador as their presidential candidate. \n\nCoalition with MORENA\n\nOn 24 June 2017, the PT approved to stand for election in 2018 in an electoral alliance with MORENA; however the coalition was not officially registered before the National Electoral Institute, the electoral authorities of the country. For MORENA, the alliance was facilitated as a result of Óscar González Yáñez, the PT gubernatorial candidate in the State of Mexico, withdrawing from the race and endorsing MORENA candidate Delfina Gómez Álvarez.\n\nAt first, there was speculation about the possibility of a front grouping all the leftist parties: MORENA, PRD, PT and Citizens' Movement (MC). However, Andrés Manuel López Obrador rejected any kind of agreement due to political differences, especially after the elections in the State of Mexico, when the candidates of the PRD and MC continued with their campaigns refusing to support the candidate of MORENA. At the end of November 2017, the leaders of MORENA and the PES announced that they were in talks to form a possible alliance. In this sense, Hugo Eric Flores said, \"We don't negotiate with the PRI, we have two options, go alone or with MORENA.\"\n\nConfirmation\n\nOn December 13, the coalition between Morena, the PT and the PES was formalized under the name \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" (English: Together we will make history). Following the signing of the agreement, Andrés Manuel López Obrador was appointed as a pre-candidate for the three political formations. It is a partial coalition that will promote López Obrador as a presidential candidate and, with respect to the legislative elections: MORENA will have to choose candidates in 150 federal electoral districts and 32 districts to the Senate; 75 deputies and 16 senators for PT and 75 deputies and 16 senators for the PES.\n\nThe alliance has received criticism as it is a coalition between two leftist parties (MORENA and the PT) with a formation related to the evangelical right (PES). In response, the national president of MORENA, Yeidckol Polevnsky, mentioned that her party believes in inclusion, joint work to \"rescue Mexico\" and that they will continue to defend human rights, while Hugo Eric Flores Cervantes, national president of the PES, mentioned that \"the only possibility of real change in our country is the one headed by Andrés Manuel López Obrador\" and that his party had decided to be \"on the right side of history.\"\n\nResults and dissolution\n\nThe results for the \"Juntos Haremos Historia\" coalition were strong; López Obrador was elected president in a landslide victory, as well as winning five of the nine state governorships (one of them for PES candidate Cuauhtémoc Blanco in Morelos), and the coalition resulted in the election of 55 federal deputies and 7 senators belonging to the party. However, the party failed to attract three percent of the vote in the elections for president, federal deputies, and senators, which under Mexican law prompts the loss of its federal registry and the appointment of a liquidator by the INE to dispose of the national party's assets. The PES and New Alliance Party, the other party to lose its registry after the 2018 elections, challenged the results to no avail and on 3 September 2018, the party was dissolved as it had not reached the 3% of the national vote.\n\nThe PES tends to include many strands of Christian humanist thinking and is generally socially conservative, though Flores has stated that it is a \"family\" party. The Baja California state party uses a stylized ichthus in its logo, which is not used by the national organization.\n\nThe party characterizes itself as the \"party of the family\". It opposes same-sex marriage and was responsible for reforms to the Baja California constitution in 2008 that established marriage as \"between one man and one woman\". In 2015, the PES gubernatorial candidate in the state of San Luis Potosí compared homosexuality to drug trafficking and violence. Likewise, it opposes abortion and pornographic magazines.\n\nOther proposals made by the PES include shifting the collection of value-added tax to the states instead of the federal government and consolidating it with income tax.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51787523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51787523", "title": "Stop Bullying: Speak Up", "text": "Stop Bullying: Speak Up\n\nStop Bullying: Speak Up is a campaign of Cartoon Network to raise awareness of bullying issues and promote positive relationships. Cartoon Network’s special programming on bullying issues during the month of October coincides with National Bullying Prevention Month. The campaign directs witnesses and victims of bullying to \"speak up\" and enlist the help of a teacher or other responsible adult. The campaign features documentaries, public service ads, and use of existing programs to carry the anti-bullying message on the network, and directs children, parents and educators to other resources about bullying issues, including an anti-bullying pledge.\n\nStop Bullying: Speak Up was created in 2010 and has partnered with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (Stop Bullying.gov), Boys & Girls Clubs of America, Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network (GLSEN), as well as The Anti-Defamation League and The Southern Poverty Law Center through its project, Teaching Tolerance, and other corporate sponsors.\n\nIn 2010, the network partnered with CNN to hold a bullying prevention town hall.\n\nIn 2011, the campaign participated in the first Bullying Prevention Summit at the White House, hosted by President Barack Obama.\n\nIn 2012, the Cartoon Network television documentary, Speak Up, included an introduction by Obama and featured children and teenagers talking about their experiences of bullying.\n\nIn 2013, The Bully Effect, a documentary hosted by reporter Anderson Cooper of CNN in conjunction with Cartoon Network kicked off the campaign to boost bullying awareness.\n\nIn 2014, Stop Bullying: Speak Up reached the goal of 1 million people taking the pledge to Speak Up and stop bullying.\n\nIn 2015, Signature CN programs such as \"Teen Titans Go!\" served as platforms for the anti-bullying message on the network. Families are encouraged to take the pledge. Cartoon Network participated as sponsor of the 2015 International Bullying Prevention Conference in Denver, CO.\n\nNational Bullying Prevention Month was founded in the United States in 2006 by PACER's National Bullying Prevention Center. (PACER is Parents Advocacy Coalition for Educational Rights, based in Minneapolis and Los Angeles.)\n\nStop Bullying: Speak Up was created in response to feedback from the network’s audience of children and youth ages 6–14, which showed that bullying was among the biggest problems faced by young people. Additional research also was conducted among its viewers in 2010 by R. Bradley Snyder, author of The 5 Simple Truths About Raising Kids. Snyder is director of The Dion Initiative for Child Well-Being and Bullying Prevention, in Arizona, which evolved from the work of Stop Bulling Az., founded by Nicole Stanton, wife of Phoenix mayor Greg Stanton.\n\nOther advisors to the Stop Bullying: Speak Up campaign include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49258678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49258678", "title": "Strategic Petroleum Reserve (India)", "text": "Strategic Petroleum Reserve (India)\n\nThe Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserve (ISPR) is an emergency fuel store of total 5.33 MMT (million metric tons) or 36.92 MMbbl of strategic crude oil enough to provide 10 days of consumption which are maintained by the Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Limited.\n\nStrategic crude oil storages are at three underground locations in Mangalore, Visakhapatnam and Padur (Udupi, Karnataka). All these are located on the east and west coasts of India which are readily accessible to the refineries. These strategic storages are in addition to the existing storages of crude oil and petroleum products with the oil companies and serve in response to external supply disruptions.\n\nIn the 2017-18 budget speech by the Indian finance minister Arun Jaitley, it was announced that two more such caverns will be set up Chandikhole in Jajpur district of Odisha and Bikaner in Rajasthan as part of the second phase. This will take the strategic reserve capacity to 15.33 million tons. .\n\nApart from this,India is planning to expand more strategic crude oil facilities in second phase at Rajkot in Gujarat and Padur in Udupi district of Karnataka.\n\nGlobal strategic petroleum reserves\n\n"}
{"id": "34821726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34821726", "title": "Temara interrogation centre", "text": "Temara interrogation centre\n\nThe Temara interrogation center, also known as Temara secret detention center (), is an extrajudicial detainment and secret prison facility of Morocco located within a forested area about 15 kilometres from Rabat, Morocco. It is operated by the Directorate for the Surveillance of the Territory (Direction de la surveillance du territoire, DST), a Moroccan domestic intelligence agency implicated in past and ongoing human rights violations, which continues to arrest, detain and interrogate individuals suspected of involvement in terrorism-related activities outside of the Moroccan legal framework.\n\nThe first known detainee was Mohammed Mossadegh Benkhadra (), in 1985 and spent 8 years in extrajudicial detainment and without trial. And later when he was released 1993, he wrote the book \"Tazmara 234\", contraction from words Temara and Tazmamart another popular prison and as a sign of continued abuse from the Years of Lead (Morocco) to present days. More recently, Zakaria Moumni claimed to have been tortured there when he was arrested in 2010.\n\nThe Associated Press reported in August 2010 that, according to several current and former American officials, the US government possesses video and audio recordings of Ramzi Binalshibh, an accused plotter of the September 11, 2001 attacks being interrogated in a secret prison . The US officials told the AP that the prison was run by Moroccans but largely financed by the CIA, which in late 2002 handed Binalshibh over to Moroccan custody and kept him there for five months. The Moroccan government has never acknowledged the facility's existence, despite allegations by freed Guantanamo detainee Binyam Mohamed Temara interrogation centre and others that the CIA relied on Morocco as a secret proxy detention site during the period after September 11, 2001.\n\nMembers of the DST are not considered to be part of the judicial police and as such should not arrest and hold suspects.\nFrequently reported methods of torture include beatings, the suspension of the body in contorted positions, and the threat of rape or other sexual abuse of the detainees’ female relatives. Other reported methods include rape by the forced insertion of objects such as bottles into the anus, sleep deprivation, cigarette burns, and the application of live electrodes to the body. Several non-government organizations such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have denounced reports of torture at the facility.\n\n"}
{"id": "41768285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41768285", "title": "Temporary Committee on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners", "text": "Temporary Committee on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners\n\nThe Temporary Committee on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners, widely referred to as the CIA committee, was a Committee of the European Parliament that was set up in 2006 to investigate the alleged role of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency in the extraordinary rendition of terrorists. The chairman of the committee was Carlos Coelho.\n\nAn interim report was released in 2006, which stated that \"the CIA or other US services have been directly responsible for the illegal seizure, removal, abduction and detention of terrorist suspects on the territory of member states\".\n\nThe Chairman of the committee, Carlos Coelho, claimed that the CIA's extraordinary renditions in Europe was carried out \"with the knowledge and support of European national governments\".\n\nIn 2007, the final report of the committee was released, which revealed the existence of secret detention facilities in Europe. According to the report, over one thousand CIA-operated flights used European airspace from 2001 to 2005.\n\nThe report also included the following details:\n\n\nThe committee's final report was approved by the European Parliament with 382 votes in favour, 256 against, and 74 abstentions.\n\n"}
{"id": "20677011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20677011", "title": "Ternuma", "text": "Ternuma\n\nTernuma (Portuguese acronym for \"Terrorism Never More\") is a Brazilian nongovernmental organization formed in 1998 by the Brazilian Army, military reserve force, family members and sympathizers with the purpose of reinterpret the history of the military regime that ruled Brazil from 1964 to 1985. It praises the Brazilian coup d'état and strongly criticizes the private property intrusions promoted by the Landless Workers' Movement.\n"}
{"id": "898937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898937", "title": "Tokenism", "text": "Tokenism\n\nTokenism is the practice of making only a perfunctory or symbolic effort to be inclusive to members of minority groups, especially by recruiting a small number of people from underrepresented groups in order to give the appearance of racial or sexual equality within a workforce. The effort of including a token employee to a workforce is usually intended to create the impression of social inclusiveness and diversity (racial, religious, sexual, etc.) in order to deflect accusations of discrimination. One additionally relevant term for tokenism is \"hyper-tokenism\". Hyper-tokenism is where a person of color has increased screen time, is involved in the plot and in promotional images, but the white characters are still the most significant characters by the end of the film. Another relevant term is \"ambiguously brown\". Ambiguously brown characters are characters that are white-passing, but not fully white so that whatever they are cast in is not completely whitewashed. \nThe social concept and the employment practice of \"tokenism\" became understood in the popular culture of the United States in the late 1950s.. In the face of racial segregation, tokenism emerged as a solution that though earnest in effort, only acknowledged an issue without actually solving it. In the book \"Why We Can't Wait\" (1964), civil rights activist Martin Luther King Jr. discussed the subject of tokenism, and how it constitutes a minimal acceptance of black people to the mainstream of U.S. society.\n\nWhen asked about the gains of the Civil Rights Movement in 1963, human rights activist Malcolm X answered, “What gains? All you have gotten is tokenism — one or two Negroes in a job, or at a lunch counter, so the rest of you will be quiet.”\n\nIn the field of psychology, the broader definition of tokenism is a situation in which a member of a distinctive category is treated differently from other people. The characteristics that make the person of interest a token can be perceived as either a handicap or an advantage, as supported by Václav Linkov. In a positive light, these distinct people can be seen as experts in their racial/cultural category, valued skills, or a different perspective on a project. In contrast, tokenism is most often seen as a handicap due to the ostracism of a selected sample of a minority group. Linkov also attributes drawbacks in psychology to Cultural and Numerical Tokenism, instances that have shifted where value of expertise is placed and its effect on proliferating information that is not representative of all the possible facts. \n\nBlack characters being the first characters to die was first identified in Hollywood horror movies of the 1930s, notes writer Renee Cozier. More recently, not a single actor of color was nominated for the 2015 or 2016 Oscars. Around this time, minorities accounted for 12.9% of lead roles in 163 films surveyed in 2014, according to the 2016 Hollywood Diversity Report.\n\nTokenism, in a television setting, can be any act of putting a minority into the mix to create some sort of publicly viewed diversity. A racial divide in TV has been present since the first television show that hired minorities, \"Amos 'n' Andy\" (1928-1960) in 1943. Regardless of whether a token character may be stereotypical or not, tokenism can initiate a whole biased perceived sense of thought that may conflict with how people see a specific race, culture, gender, or ethnicity. From the Huffington Post, America Ferrera states, “Tokenism is about inserting diverse characters because you feel you have to; true diversity means writing characters that aren’t just defined by the color of their skin, and casting the right actor for the role.\" \n\nTokenism in television has been spoken about under a different umbrella in recent decades. For example, tokenism was analyzed in an article that examined actions in the television show \"Scandal\" (2012-). Though today there are many black main characters in many popular television shows, Stephanie L. Gomez's article speaks about Kerry Washington as Olivia Pope. Gomez compares the character of Olivia Pope to three tropes of Black women, The slave mistress, The help, and The Jezebel. \n\nIn the early 1990s, shows like \"The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air\" (1990-1996) and \"Martin\" (1992-1997), were strategies that were used to capitalize from an underrepresented group, namely the black community in television at the time. Networks allowed the shows to be black-produced and have all-black casts. This strategy was used because at the time the black viewership did not have many shows made specifically for them, and networks used this tactic to capitalize on them. Networks knew that many black people would purchase televisions and cable subscriptions if there were more people like them on the television, this is also conveyed tokenism.\n\nThe CW show \"The 100\", though it has a lot of minorities cast, still displays ample tokenism with how these characters are used in the show. Lincoln plays the \"scary black man\" trope before he is more humanized by his white love interest and then ultimately killed off. Raven Reyes is hypersexualized or tortured during her screen time. Wells Jaha is killed off in season one. On top of this, the only LGBT representation the show includes is when character Clarke and Lexa become an item, but Lexa is soon killed off for shock value. \n\nAnother show with tokenism is the CW show \"Riverdale\". In this teen drama, Kevin Keller is the only gay character in the ensemble cast. He has very little significance to the actual plot and has way less screen time than other characters. When he is on screen, he plays a stereotyped flamboyant gay teen.\n\nIn 2012, Acura put out a casting call for their commercial where they stated that the main actor must be a “nice looking, friendly, not too dark” African American.\n\nJust like television, Tokenism in the media has changed over time to coincide with real life events. During the years of 1946-87 the weekly magazine, The \"New Yorker\" was analyzed to determine how often and in what situations blacks were being portrayed in the magazine's cartoon section. Over the 42 years of research, there was only one U.S. black main character in a cartoon where race was not the main theme, race was actually completely irrelevant. All cartoons from the earliest times depicted U.S. blacks in stereotypical roles. In the late 1960s and early 1970s cartoons were mostly racial themed, and depicted blacks in \"token\" roles where they are only there to create a sense of inclusiveness.\n\nA Harvard Business School professor, Rosabeth Moss Kanter, asserted back in 1993 that a token employee is usually part of a \"socially-skewed group\" of employees who belong to a minority group that constitutes less than 15% of the total employee population of the workplace. \n\nBy definition, token employees in a workplace are known to be few; hence, their alleged high visibility among the staff subjects them to greater pressure to perform their work at higher production standards of quality and volume and to behave in the expected, stereotypical manner. Given the smallness of the group of token employees in a workplace, the individual identity of each token person is usually disrespected by the dominant group, who apply a stereotype role to them as a means of social control in the workplace. \n\nResearch comparing the effects of gender and race tokenism on individuals indicates that the practice of tokenism can accurately predict conditions in the workplace for members of racial minorities.\n\nAccording to one study, racial minorities also experience heightened performance pressures related to their race and gender; however, many reported that racial problems were more common than gender problems.\n\nIn her work on tokenism and gender, professor Kanter said that the problems experienced by women in a typically male-dominated occupations were due solely to the skewed proportions of men and women in these occupations. \n\nIn politics, allegations of tokenism may occur when a political party puts forward candidates from under-represented groups, such as women or racial minorities, in races that the party has little or no chance of winning, while making limited or no effort to ensure that such candidates have similar opportunity to win the nomination in races where the party is safe or favoured. The \"token\" candidates are frequently submitted as paper candidates, in which a person is placed on the ballot solely to make sure the political party has a candidate in the race even if that candidate has almost no chance of actually winning, while the more competitive nature of the candidate selection process in winnable seats continues to favour members of the majority group.\n\nThe end result of such an approach is that the party's slate of candidates maintains the appearance of diversity, but members of the majority group remain overrepresented in the party's caucus after the election — and thus little to no substantive progress toward greater inclusion of underrepresented groups has actually occurred.\n\nThe New York Times dives into address tokenism in politics by mentioning Nikki Haley. Haley is first generation American, having Indian immigrants as parents. Despite the fact that she has little experience with foreign policy, President Trump chose her as the current United States Ambassador to the United Nations.\n\nIn fiction, a token character exists only to achieve minimal compliance with the normality presumed for the society described in the story. Writers also use the token character to pay lip service to the rules and the standards that they do not abide, such as by obeying anti-racism policies, by including a token ethnic-minority character who has no true, narrative function in the plot and is usually a stereotype character.\n\nIn fiction, token characters represent groups which vary from the norm (usually defined as a white, heterosexual male) and are otherwise excluded from the story. The token character can be based on ethnicity (i.e. black, Hispanic, Asian), religion (i.e. Jewish, Muslim), sexual orientation (i.e. homosexual), or gender (typically a female character in a predominantly male cast). Token characters are usually background characters, and, as such, are usually disposable, and are eliminated from the narrative early in the story, in order to enhance the drama, while conserving the main characters.\n\nIn much contemporary cinema and television, the inclusion of token characters is usually and implausibly seen in historical settings where such a person's race would be immediately noticed. Typically, other characters tend to treat the token characters as though they are not concerned with their race or ethnicity. Notable exceptions to this practice include stories based in history and stories that address racism directly. The \"South Park\" character Token Black is a reference to this.\n\nBritish films and TV programmes might include a token American character, sometimes in situations where the presence of an American would have been unlikely, in order to appeal to viewers in the U.S., e.g. the character \"Agar\" in \"The First Great Train Robbery\" (1979), and character of \"Flt. Lt. Carrington\" in the first series of \"Colditz\" (1972), about British prisoners of war, during the Second World War (1939–45).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46476782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46476782", "title": "Transgender people and military service", "text": "Transgender people and military service\n\nPeople of diverse sexual orientation and gender identity, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT), serve in the armed forces of every country. However, not all armed forces have policies explicitly permitting LGBT personnel. Generally speaking, Western European militaries show a greater tendency toward inclusion of LGBT individuals. As of 30 October 2017, 20 countries allowed transgender military personnel to serve openly: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom, and the United States. Cuba and Thailand reportedly allowed transgender service in a limited capacity. In 1974, the Netherlands was the first country to allow transgender military personnel.\n\nThere are arguments against the inclusion of transgender people in military service. One argument is based on the view that being transgender is a mental illness, and as such transgender individuals are unfit for service. This argument follows a high incidence of depression and suicide manifest in transgender individuals. This is especially pertinent in individuals who have had sex-reassignment surgery and are unsatisfied with the results; in such cases severe depression is prevalent. Hormone therapy can affect mood and a sense of well-being, a factor that counts against inclusion of transgender people and its effect on service capability. Besides the well-being argument of hormone treatment, complications may arise due to hormone treatments. Possible complications arising from estrogen and testosterone therapies include an increased risk of thromboembolic disease, myocardial infarction, breast cancer, fertility problems, stroke, abnormal liver function, renal disease, endometrial cancer, and osteoporosis. Any of these could cause significant issues to effective military service, especially when deployed in remote areas or in field training settings.\n\nA further argument is that in order to have an effective, smooth-running military, there must be cohesion within the unit. It is argued that transgender individuals would have a negative impact on unit cohesion. \"The bonds of trust among individual service members\" are vital. There is a fear that if transgender personnel be allowed to serve openly, morale will be detrimentally affected. But this argument neglects to deal with the question of what kinds of structural accommodations might be needed to maintain morale and unit cohesion in such situations. Military service forces members into very intimate living quarters. Requiring members to live in situations that make them feel disconcerted and uncomfortable may result in their performance being undermined. The logistics of accommodating a group of individuals with such varying degrees of gender representation would be staggering. The costs alone of allowing transgender people to serve counts heavily against inclusion. Not only logistically and structurally, but also in medical costs. It is estimated that a male-to-female transition can cost between US$7,000 and $24,000; female-to-male transition can exceed US$50,000. Which, depending on policy, the military may have to fund.\n\nBy excluding a demographic from equal service, militaries are overtly intensifying the stigma of that group's civic inferiority. This is supported by the notion that all citizens are obligated to serve their nations if the need arises. Allowing transgender military personnel to serve openly without fear of exclusion would be a huge step toward equality. It has been recognized by some academics that the inclusion of all LGBT personnel in the military is more than a mere human rights issue, it is argued that for militaries to survive in the twenty-first century diversity is critical.\n\nWith advancements in the current understanding of human experience, sexual identity is now better understood. Where being transgender was once considered a paraphilic disorder, the current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders places being transgender in a separate chapter, terming the condition gender dysphoria. It is argued that militaries that exclude transgender people on grounds of mental illness, whose policies pathologize gender dysphoria, are at odds with the current medical understanding. This argument requires that transgender personnel be treated by the same level of medical care as all other personnel, in accordance with established medical practice.\n\nExperts argue that there is absolutely no empirical evidence that supports the argument that transgender people are unfit for service. Often cited are factors such as a supposed predisposition of transgender individuals to problems such as depression, anxiety, and suicidal thoughts; this is countered by the prevalence of these same issues in the LGB community, yet in many countries their service is not excluded. By creating a more accepting environment, distress that transgender personnel feel might be mitigated if they may serve openly with full support.\n\nWhilst militaries often cite the high medical cost of transgender people, they fail to reconcile this argument with current standards with other service members. For example, militaries often allow hormone treatments for an array of reasons and conditions, besides gender dysphoria; a common hormone treatment being contraceptive. Furthermore, the often cited risks of cross hormone treatment are rare, and not likely to cause any significant issues to the military. Whilst the cost of gender reassignment surgery is high, it is suggested that fewer than 2% of transgender members per year will choose to undergo gender reassignment surgery.\n\nPerhaps one of the most supporting arguments is based on the experiences of the 18 countries that currently allow transgender service. Research on the impacts of allowing LGBT to serve openly in the Israeli Defense Forces, British Armed Forces, and Canadian Armed Forces found no necessary negative impacts on performance, unit cohesion or morality. The idea of unit cohesion can also be demonstrated by a social study conducted less than one year prior to the repeal of the ban preventing transgender personnel from serving openly in the United States military. Morten G. Ender, David E. Rohall, and Michael D. Matthews presented the American military academy, Reserve Officers Training Corps, and civilian undergraduates with a survey to assess the general attitude on the prospect of the transgender community serving in the U.S. Armed Forces. After statistical analysis, 50.8% of individuals disagreed with the ban. In regards to productivity, 72.6% of subjects say that transgender inclusion would have no impact on their ability to do their job. Finally, on the subject of visibility, 21.8% of those interviewed said they would want transgender individuals to tell them their gender preferences, 56.1% said no preference. Overall, based on this study one year prior to the ban, the majority of the people that participated in the survey showed overwhelming support towards the inclusion of the transgender community in the United States military. \n\nIn October 2017, ruling that a renewed ban within the US military should not go into force, US District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly stated that the evidence presented up to that time showed that \"all of the reasons proffered ... for excluding transgender individuals from the military in this case were not merely unsupported, but were actually contradicted by the studies, conclusions and judgment of the military itself\".\n\nEighteen years after the Australian Defence Force lifted their ban on gay and lesbian service, the ADF reversed policy that excluded transgender people from military service. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nIt is believed that the Australian Defence Force was the last agency whose policy specifically allowed for firing employees for transitioning gender. The ADF policy supports diversity in the military identifying LGBTI as a main priority, whose key objective is to position the ADF as an employer of choice, who as an organisation respects and supports the inclusion of gender diverse persons.\n\nIn 2013 Australian law formally codified protections against discrimination based on gender identity by including federal protections for LGBTI in the Sex Discrimination Act 1984. There are approximately 15 transgender service member who are openly living as their identified gender, with the support of ADF ranking officials who have been vocally committed to creating an inclusive and diverse military environment.\n\nIn a One Plus One interview with ABC News ADF's highest ranking transgender service member Lieutenant Colonel Cate McGregor speechwriter to the Chief of Army, Lieutenant General David Morrison AO, stated that the Chief of Army took the view that the \"army could not survive if it became a demographic ghetto\" and described an underbelly within the military whose culture was to exclude those who are different. In the wake of the Jedi Council sex scandal Chief of Army released a strongly worded statement urging all service members to show moral courage, to stand against any person degrading another individual. He further stated that he will \"be ruthless in ridding the army of people who cannot live up to its values\".\n\nWhilst there might still be a long road to full acceptance of the transgender community in Australia, transgender service members and their families are supported by DEFGLIS whose aim is to support LGBTI personnel and families, strengthen defence capability through inclusion, and educate the workforce about diversity.\n\nAs of 2014, Austria allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2014, Belgium allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nThe Armed Forces of Bolivia announced in 2013 that LGBT citizens would be allowed to serve beginning in 2015. As of 2014, Bolivia allowed transgender people to serve openly in the military. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2014, Canada allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2014, the Czech Republic allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2014, Denmark allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2014, Estonia allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2014, Finland allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2014, France allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nIn France, the military is sometimes initially more accepting of transgender service members than civilian authorities are, at least in some localities and jurisdictions, but they are also influenced by rulings of civilian courts which have strict requirements about changing identity documents. One service member was whipsawed by initially positive reception in the military, later overruled after a civilian court decision.\n\nIn 2009, a transgender Adjutant in the French Air Force who had already served 18 years as a man, returned to her unit in Nancy as a woman after a sick leave. Her superiors took stock of the situation, and provided the necessary uniforms and military papers with her new name. Delphine Ravisé-Giard was reintegrated into the military smoothly and without incident. On the other hand, she had difficulties in civilian life, such as when presenting her driver's license, passport, or other papers. The military then issued a request to the Nancy to have her gender and name altered on her birth certificate, but their decision was negative based on the fact that she had not yet undergone sex reassignment surgery so her situation was reversible. A 1992 decision by the \"Cour de cassation\" (Court of Appeals) requires those wishing to change their legal documents to show proof of being diagnosed with \"transsexual syndrome\" which is listed as a long-term psychiatric disorder in France, and to have undergone surgical intervention, but the Adjutant declared that she had no \"long-term psychiatric disorder\", and any question about any surgical interventions she had or didn't have was her private affair. Her lawyer insinuated that the real reason for the denial had to do with her ability to still have a child, and that the court's objective was sterilization before they would accord a legal name and gender change. The Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Council said that a transgender person \"seeking to have their gender identity legally recognized should not be forced to submit to sterilization or to any other medical treatment.\"\n\nHowever, in December, following the District Court decision, Hervé Morin, the Minister of Defense, ordered her to turn in her military papers, which she did. Meanwhile, she discovered that the name on her pay stub reverted to her old name, that the military supplement that women service members receive for feminine undergarments had been removed, and that the military was even going to dock her pay for the supplement she received while serving two years as a woman.\n\nAs of 2014, Germany allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2017, Iran requires all male citizens over age 18 to serve in the military, but transgender women, who are classified as having mental disorders. New military identity cards listed the subsection of the law dictating this exemption. This practice of identifying transgender individuals put them at risk of physical abuse and discrimination.\n\nCommenting in July 2017 on the Trump administration's decision to roll back service in the U.S. military by openly transgender personnel, Taoiseach Leo Varadkar said, \"On the transgender ban, it is not something I agree with.\" He further indicated that Ireland had never formally banned transgender military service and that he would not consider introducing such a ban.\n\nAs of 2014, Israel allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2014, the Netherlands allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nThe New Zealand Defence Force has been lauded as a world leader in diversity and for support of the LGBTQI community, and has been ranked as number one for integration of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender personnel into the nation's military.\n\nWith the addition of the Human Rights Act to the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act in 1994, discrimination based on sexual orientation was criminalised. Although there is no specific reference to transgender people in the New Zealand statute, it has been held by the Solicitor General that protections for transgender people did in fact come under the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act 1990 under the sex discrimination provision. Whilst the Human Rights Commission and many activists still assert the need for an express provision in the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act to properly protect transgender people from discrimination, the NZDF as an equal opportunity employer does not discriminate on the basis of gender identity. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nIn support of maintaining diversity and inclusiveness the Chief of Defence Force approved the establishment of a support group for the military's LGBTI personnel. In 2012 an organisation called the NZDF Overwatch was launched within the defence force. Overwatch provides peer support and networking within the defence force to the GLBTI community, both in uniform and out. The organisation also offers education and guidance to command and commanders.\nThe NZDF and Overwatch was recognised for their inclusiveness and approach to equal employment opportunity being named the Supreme award winner of the ANZ and Equal Employment Opportunities Trust, Diversity Awards NZ 2013.\n\nAs of 2014, Norway allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2014, Spain allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nAs of 2014, Sweden allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nIn Thailand, identity documents may not be changed. All males must show up for the military conscription event on draft day, and kathoeys are not exempt from this requirement. It is possible for kathoeys to get an exemption certificate that will allow them to avoid service, but they must still attend, in order to present the document and be dismissed. As a result, on draft day, lines of people awaiting processing may include transgender women in makeup and feminine attire, waiting along with the male draftees. Contrary to the wide impression of acceptance of transgender women in Thailand, many complain about being treated as second-class citizens, and of the stress of being undressed or publicly humiliated.\n\nAs of 2014, the United Kingdom allowed transgender people to serve openly in its military forces. The policy of inclusion was reportedly still in effect in 2017.\n\nThe United States' military policy previously allowed for exclusion of transgender people from service on medical grounds. While gay, lesbian, and bisexual service members were allowed to serve openly since 2011, transgender service members risked discharge if they did not pass as their assigned sex. This required that service members conceal their gender identities throughout service.\n\nIt was estimated that in 2008–2009 there were approximately 15,500 transgender individuals either serving on active duty or in the National Guard or Army Reserve forces within the U.S. Military. A 2016 study, however, based on previous research estimated that only between 1,320 and 6,630 transgender individuals served on active duty and between 830 and 4,160 in reserve duty, with midrange figures of 2,450 in active duty and 1,510 in reserves.\n\nA key controversy and concern for transgender service members is the use of military medical services to transition from one gender to another.\n\nOn 22 August 2013, the day after her sentencing at an Army court-martial, U.S. soldier Chelsea Manning issued a public statement declaring herself to be a transgender woman. In 2014, while incarcerated in the United States Disciplinary Barracks, Manning filed a lawsuit against Secretary of Defense Hagel for failing to provide appropriate medical treatment necessary for her gender transformation. In a military first, hormone therapy to assist with Manning's gender conformity was approved in early 2015 and added to her treatment plan along with other provisions such as cosmetics and female undergarments.\n\nAir Force Secretary Deborah Lee James openly supported a change to the military's transgender policy, stating in 2014 that it was likely to be reviewed in the next year or so. In February 2015, Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter stated he was open minded about including transgender people in the military and that nothing but individual lack of merit should preclude such people from service. Carter's statement was later endorsed by President Obama.\n\nOn 19 August 2015, Carter stated in a memo that the Defense Department had begun the process of dismantling the ban and that transgender people would be able to openly serve in the U.S. military by 27 May 2016. Department of Defense regulations that ban transgender persons from US military service were repealed on 30 June 2016. Beginning on that date, otherwise qualified United States service members could not any longer be discharged, denied reenlistment, involuntarily separated, or denied continuation of service because of being transgender.\n\nOn 26 July 2017, US President Donald Trump announced that transgender people would no longer be allowed to serve in the US military. The following day, General Joseph Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, stated that openly transgender people will continue to be allowed to serve until Trump provides direction to James Mattis, the Secretary of Defense.\n\nThe Palm Center released, on 1 August 2017, a letter signed by 56 retired generals and admirals opposing the proposed ban on transgender military service members. The letter stated that if implemented, the ban \"would cause significant disruptions, deprive the military of mission-critical talent and compromise the integrity of transgender troops who would be forced to live a lie, as well as non-transgender peers who would be forced to choose between reporting their comrades or disobeying policy\".\n\nOn 9 August 2017, five transgender United States military personnel sued Trump and top Pentagon officials over the proposed banning of transgender people from serving in the military. The suit asks the court to prevent the ban from going into effect. Two major LGBT-rights organizations filed a petition in the United States District Court in Washington on behalf of the five transgender service members.\n\nTrump signed a presidential memorandum, dated 25 August 2017, directing the Secretary of Defense and Secretary of Homeland Security to submit an implementation plan by 21 February 2018, to reinstate the ban and halt the use of military funds for \"sex reassignment surgical procedures for military personnel\". On 30 October 2017, US District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly barred the administration from excluding transgender people from military service in \"Jane Doe v. Trump\", but did not address whether federal funds should be used to pay for sex reassignment surgery for service members. The ruling also stated that that as far as could be seen, \"all of the reasons proffered by the president for excluding transgender individuals from the military in this case were not merely unsupported, but were actually contradicted by the studies, conclusions and judgment of the military itself\".\n\nIn November 2017, the Defense Health Agency for the first time approved payment for sex reassignment surgery for an active-duty US military service member. The patient, an infantry soldier who is a transwoman, had already begun a course of treatment for gender reassignment. The procedure, which the treating doctor deemed medically necessary, was performed on 14 November at a private hospital, since US military hospitals lack the requisite surgical expertise. On 11 December, Kollar-Kotelly ruled that the government must accept transgender recruits into the military by 1 January 2018. After the ruling, the Department of Justice appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to issue a stay on the district court's ruling. The Pentagon confirmed on 26 February 2018 that the first transgender recruit had signed a contract to join the military.\n\nOn March 23, 2018, President Trump banned transgender and transsexual people with current or previous gender dysphoria from serving in the U.S. military. However, the Pentagon said they would comply with the court decision until it is reversed. The policy was stayed in \"Karnoski vs. Trump\" (Western District of Washington) on 13 April 2018, when the court ruled that the 2018 memorandum essentially repeated the same issues as its predecessor order from 2017, that transgender service members (and transgender individuals as a class) were a protected class entitled to strict scrutiny of adverse laws (or at worst, a quasi-suspect class), and ordered that matter continue to a full trial hearing on the legality of the proposed policy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55948742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55948742", "title": "True Blue Crew", "text": "True Blue Crew\n\nThe True Blue Crew is an anti-Islam far right street protest group which is associated with nationalist and neo-Nazi hate groups. The group is led by Kane Miller.\n\nTrue Blue Crew are considered to be a far right, nationalist, neo-Nazi group. They have been described by academics as displaying \"overt white racism, xenophobia and social conservatism aimed at bolstering male values and privilege. They understand themselves as Australian patriots preserving and protecting white, Anglo-Saxon heritage against particular groups including Muslims, Jews, immigrants and indigenous Australians.\"\n\nAt a protest rally organised by True Blue Crew in Melbourne on June 25, 2017 police seized weapons including a knife and knuckle duster.\n\nIn August 2016, a member of the True Blue Crew, Phillip Galea, was charged with terrorism related offences.\n\nIn January 2018, the United Patriots Front and True Blue Crew were reported by Channel 7 news to be attempting to arrange vigilante patrols to monitor young African men. The report led to accusations that Channel 7 were giving neo-Nazis a speech platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "562666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=562666", "title": "War economy", "text": "War economy\n\nA war economy is the set of contingencies undertaken by a modern state to mobilize its economy for war production. Philippe Le Billon describes a war economy as a \"system of producing, mobilizing and allocating resources to sustain the violence.\" Some measures taken include the increasing of Taylor rates as well as the introduction of resource allocation programs. Needless to say, every country approaches the reconfiguration of its economy in a different way.\n\nMany states increase the degree of planning in their economies during wars; in many cases this extends to rationing, and in some cases to conscription for civil defenses, such as the Women's Land Army and Bevin Boys in the United Kingdom during World War II.\n\nPresident Franklin D. Roosevelt stated if the Axis powers won, then \"we would have to convert ourselves permanently into a militaristic power on the basis of war economy.\"\n\nDuring total war situations, certain buildings and positions are often seen as important targets by combatants. The Union blockade, Union General William Tecumseh Sherman's March to the Sea during the American Civil War, and the strategic bombing of enemy cities and factories during World War II are all examples of total war.\n\nConcerning the side of aggregate demand, this concept has been linked to the concept of \"military Keynesianism\", in which the government's military budget stabilizes business cycles and fluctuations and/or is used to fight recessions.\n\nOn the supply side, it has been observed that wars sometimes have the effect of accelerating progress of technology to such an extent that an economy is greatly strengthened after the war, especially if it has avoided the war-related destruction. This was the case, for example, with the United States in World War I and World War II. Some economists (such as Seymour Melman) argue, however, that the wasteful nature of much of military spending eventually can hurt technological progress.\n\nThe United States alone has a very complex history with wartime economies. Many notable instances came during the twentieth century in which America’s main conflicts consisted of the World Wars, Korea, and Vietnam.\n\nIn mobilizing for World War I, the United States expanded its governmental powers by creating institutions such as the War Industries Board (WIB) to help with military production. Others, such as the Fuel Administration, introduced daylight saving time in an effort to save coal and oil while the Food Administration encouraged higher grain production and “mobilized a spirit of self-sacrifice rather than mandatory rationing.” Propaganda also played a large part in garnering support for topics ranging from tax initiatives to food conservation. Speaking on Four Minute Men, volunteers who rallied the public through short speeches, investigative journalist George Creel stated that the idea was extremely popular and the program saw thousands of volunteers throughout the states.\n\nIn the case of the Second World War, the U.S. government took similar measures in increasing its control over the economy. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor provided the spark needed to begin conversion to a wartime economy. With this attack, Washington felt that a greater bureaucracy was needed to help with mobilization. The government raised taxes which paid for half of the war’s costs and borrowed money in the form of war bonds to cover the rest of the bill. “Commercial institutions like banks also bought billions of dollars of bonds and other treasury paper, holding more than $24 billion at the war’s end.\" The creation of a handful of agencies helped funnel resources towards the war effort. One prominent agency was the War Production Board (WPB), which “awarded defense contracts, allocated scarce resources – such as rubber, copper, and oil – for military uses, and persuaded businesses to convert to military production.\" Two-thirds of the American economy had been integrated into the war effort by the end of 1943. Because of this massive cooperation between government and private entities, it could be argued that the economic measures enacted prior to and during the Second World War helped lead the Allies to victory.\n\nGermany has experienced economic devastation following both World Wars. While this was not a result of faulty economic planning, it is important to understand the ways that Germany approached reconstruction. In World War I, the German agricultural sector was hit hard by the demands of the war effort. Not only were many of the workers conscripted, but lots of the food itself was allocated for the troops leading to a shortage. “German authorities were not able to solve the food scarcity [problem], but implemented a food rationing system and several price ceilings to prevent speculation and profiteering. Unfortunately, these measures did not have the desired success.\"\n\nHeading into the Second World War, the Nazis introduced new policies that not only caused the unemployment rate to drop, it created a competent war machine in clear violation of the Treaty of Versailles. The Third Reich implemented a draft and built factories to supply its quickly expanding military. Both of these actions created jobs for many Germans who had been struggling from the economic collapse following World War I. However, it is worth noting that while unemployment rates plummeted, “by 1939, government debt stood at over 40 billion Reichsmarks.\" After World War II, Germany was discovered to have exploited the economies of the countries it invaded. The most important among these, according to historians Boldorf and Scherner, was France and “her highly developed economy… [being] one of the biggest in Europe.” This is further supported when they later reveal how the French economy provided for 11 percent of Germany’s national income (during the occupation) which covered five months of Germany’s total income for the war. Using extortion and forced labor, the Nazis siphoned off much of France's economic output. For example, during the early months of the Nazi occupation, the French puppet government was forced to pay a \"quartering\" fee of twenty million Reichmarks per day. Supposedly, the fee was payment for the Nazi occupation forces. In reality, the money was used to fuel the Nazi war economy. Germany employed numerous methods to support its war effort. However, due to the Nazi’s surrender to the Allies, it is hard to tell what their economic policies would have yielded in the long term.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7094929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7094929", "title": "Water and Sewerage Authority", "text": "Water and Sewerage Authority\n\nThe Water and Sewerage Authority of Trinidad and Tobago (WASA) is the sole water and sewerage provider in Trinidad and Tobago. It was formed in 1965 by an Act of Parliament to manage the Hollis, Caroni–Arena and Navet dams in Trinidad. In Tobago, WASA maintains the Hillsborough Reservoir along with other freshwater wells to provide municipal drinking water for the country. The purview of the authority extends to the country's sewage treatment plants.\n\nThe Water and Sewerage Authority was formed by Act 16 of 1965 and enacted on September 1, 1965. This Act brought together several agencies that were formerly charged with the responsibility of providing water and sewerage facilities to the nation: \n\n\nThe authority is the largest public utility in the country. It serves over 92% of the population with pipeborne water through private house connections and standpipes. Since its establishment, water production has increased from 223,000 cubic metres to 650,000 cubic metres in 1990. \n\nWith respect to wastewater, 30%–40% of the population is served by a central sewerage collection and treatment system. Another 40% of the population are served by cesspit-tank soil-absorption field systems. Those remaining are served by pit latrines (outhouses).\n\nThe authority is represented by WASA FC, currently playing in the National Super League, the second tier of the Trinidadian and Tobagonian football league structure.\n\n"}
{"id": "21684953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21684953", "title": "Wazira", "text": "Wazira\n\nWazira () is a high-ranking female official title that means Minister of a Muslim or Arab regime. During the Abbasid Caliphate, Wazir () which represents the title of a male Minister was used for the first time. In the modern age, and due to equitable participation of women in politics and government, the Wazira title have become commonly used in many countries within the MENA region, Brunei and the Indian subcontinent.\n\nNowadays, a Wazira fully acts as a politician who holds significant public office in a national or regional government, making and implementing decisions on policies alongside and equally to other male ministers who carry a title of a Wazir.\n\nWazira is also a name of a village in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa province of Pakistan. It is located at 34°3'0N 73°7'0E with an altitude of 759 metres (2493 feet).\n\n"}
